http://noaa.wff.nasa.gov/csguide/cs_guide.htm

    Computer Users' Guide

                               For Protecting

                            Information Resources

                                  MARCH 1997

             U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

   Office of Finance and Administration, Systems Division

   Telecommunications and ADP Security Branch

        MESSAGE

                 Computer security is more than the protection

   of sensitive information. It is good management

   and the duty of responsible Federal employees.

   We as public servants must protect the materials

   we handle as a public trust.

    I am told that experts in the field of information

   management agree that most security problems

   stem from people simply not understanding their

   responsibilities.

    This booklet should be helpful in addressing that

   problem. It will help all of us within NOAA

   understand the need for vigilance in handling

   secure documents and give us the tools for

   carrying out that mission.

       D. James Baker

   Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere

   POLICY STATEMENT

    It is the policy of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration (NOAA) to protect its information resources and allow
   the use, access, and disclosure of information only in accordance with
   applicable laws, Federal regulations, and NOAA Directives. This policy
   statement is directed at reaffirming the goals of the NOAA for
   protecting data, information, and the means of processing data.

    An Information Technology (IT) Security Program will be maintained to
   ensure that cost-effective security controls are set up for the
   protection of existing systems, and that such controls are included in
   the design and development of new systems. These controls will be
   commensurate with the risks associated with loss of resources and/or
   services within the NOAA. Important is the assurance that the computing
   facilities and the data processed, stored, and distributed from these
   facilities be protected to the degree dictated by the sensitivity of
   the data and as directed by responsible user management. The term
   security, as defined in this policy, encompasses the full range of
   physical measures, technological safeguards, and administrative
   procedures applied to facilities, hardware, software, firmware, data,
   telecommunications and personnel.

     TABLE OF CONTENTS

    Policy Statementi

   Introduction1

   Who is Responsible for Protecting Data and Information1

   What is "Sensitive" Data2

   What Risks are Associated With the Use of Computers?2

   How Much Security Is Enough?3

   Password Security3

   Selecting Good Passwords4

   Malicious Software7

   Virus Protection9

   Definition of a Security Breach9

   Reporting Security Breach/Viruses10

   The Internet11

   Proper Use of Government Equipment15

   Is Your Computer Humming Along While You=re Out?16

   Facts About Software17

   The Law17

   The Language18

   The Code of Ethics19

   General Responsibilities22

   Employee Responsibilities23

   Security and Control Guidelines25

   Personal Computer Security27

   Summary of Security Practices29

   Protect Your Equipment29

   Protect Your Area29

   Protect Your Password29

   Protect Your Files29

   Protect Against Viruses30

   Lock Up Storage Media Containing Sensitive Data30

   Back Up Your Data30

   Report Security Violations30

   Copyright Laws30

   Information Technology Security Officersinside back cover

   INTRODUCTION

    Today's computer technology, with microcomputers and on-line access,
   has placed the power of the computer where it belongs, in YOUR hands.

    YOU, the users, develop computer applications and perform other data
   processing functions that were previously only done by the computer
   operations personnel. These advances have greatly improved our
   efficiency and effectiveness but also present a serious challenge in
   achieving adequate data security.

    While excellent progress has been made in computer technology, very
   little has been done to inform users of the vulnerability of data and
   information to such threats as unauthorized modification, disclosure,
   and destruction, either deliberate or accidental. This guide will make
   you aware of some undesirable things that can happen to data and will
   provide some practical solutions for reducing your risks to these
   threats.

     WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PROTECTING DATA AND INFORMATION?

    The statement that "security is everyone's responsibility" is
   absolutely true. Owners, developers, operators, and users of
   information systems have a personal responsibility to protect these
   resources.

    Supervisors have the responsibility to provide appropriate security
   controls for any information resources entrusted to them. These
   supervisors are personally responsible for understanding the
   sensitivity and criticality of their data and the extent of losses that
   could occur if the resources are not protected. Supervisors must ensure
   that all users of their data and systems are made aware of the
   practices and procedures used to protect the information resources.

    When you do not know what your security responsibilities are, ASK YOUR
   SUPERVISOR.

    WHAT IS "SENSITIVE" DATA?

    All data is sensitive to some degree; exactly how sensitive is unique
   to each business environment. Within the Federal Government, personal
   information is sensitive to unauthorized disclosure under the Privacy
   Act of 1974. Occasionally, data is far more sensitive to accidental
   errors or omissions that compromise accuracy, integrity, or
   availability.

     [Image1.gif]

   For example, in a Management Information System, inaccurate,
   incomplete, or obsolete information can result in incorrect management
   decisions that could cause serious damage and require time and money to
   rectify. Data and information that are critical to an agency's ability
   to perform its mission are sensitive to nonavailability.

    Still, other data are sensitive to fraudulent manipulation for
   personal gain. Systems that process electronic funds transfers, control
   inventories, issue checks, control accounts receivables and payables,
   etc., can be fraudulently exploited resulting in serious losses to an
   agency.

    One way to determine the sensitivity of data is to ask the questions,
   "What will it cost if the data is wrong? Manipulated for fraudulent
   purposes? Not available? Given to the wrong person?" If the damage is
   more than you can tolerate, then the data is sensitive and should have
   adequate security controls to prevent or lessen the potential loss.

     WHAT RISKS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF COMPUTERS?

    Over the past several decades, computers have taken over virtually all
     of our major record-keeping functions. Recently, personal computers
       have made it cost-effective to automate many office functions.
      Computerization has many advantages and is here to stay; however,
     automated systems introduce new risks, and we should take steps to
                            control those risks.

     We should be concerned with the same risks that existed when manual
        procedures were used. One risk introduced by computers is the
      concentration of tremendous amounts of data in one location. The
     greater the concentration, the greater the consequences of loss or
   damage. Another risk is computer user access from remote terminals. We
    must be able to positively identify the user, as well as ensure that
      the user is authorized. Newspaper accounts of computer "hackers,"
     computer virus attacks, and other types of intruders underscore the
    reality of the threat to government and commercial computer systems.

                        HOW MUCH SECURITY IS ENOUGH?

    No matter how many controls or safeguards we use, we can never achieve
   total security. We can, however, decrease the risk in proportion to the
   strength of the protective measures. The degree of protection is based
   on the value of the information; in other words, how serious would be
   the consequences if a certain type of information were to be wrongfully
   changed, disclosed, delayed, or destroyed?

    There are two things you need to do:

    !Ensure that you=re the only one who knows your password.

   !Ensure that your password is not one that can be easily guessed by a
   password cracker.

    A password is not just a way to get into the computer system; it is a
   way to keep unauthorized people out. Don't underestimate your
   importance. You are on the frontline of information systems security!
   In many cases, even though you may not deal with sensitive material on
   your own computer, your password may be all the information a hacker
   needs to pass from the outer regions (where you compute) to the inner
   regions (where the sensitive data resides) of your organization's
   network.

     PASSWORD SECURITY

                    Can You Outsmart A Password Cracker?

         One of the most basic methods used to secure the integrity,
    confidentiality and availability of the data on computer systems is a
   password. Consequently, "password cracking" (guessing a user's password
        and using it to gain unauthorized access) is one of the most
      fundamental activities of computer hackers. Password cracking has
   become very sophisticated. There are hacker programs that can guess an
    average of 40 percent of all passwords on a computer network. Such a
      program can be designed to attempt not only all the words in the
     dictionaries of several languages, but also various permutations of
                            commonly used words.

     Since your password is the most vulnerable point of break-in for any
      would-be hacker, taking care in the choice and protection of that
   password is the single most important contribution you can make to the
              security of your organization's computer system.

                          SELECTING GOOD PASSWORDS

                                  RATIONALE

      The object, when choosing a password is to make it as difficult as
     possible for a cracker to make educated guesses about what you have
   chosen. This leaves him no alternative but a brute-force search, trying
     every possible combination of letters, numbers, and punctuation. A
     search of this sort, even conducted on a machine that could try one
      million passwords per second (most machines can try less than one
    hundred per second), would require, on the average, over one-hundred
                             years to complete.

        Create a password that is both difficult to guess and easy to
   remember. Random alphanumeric compositions (for example, AX$78BO@) make
    excellent passwords. Unfortunately, they are hard to remember. Use an
   acronym from an easy to remember phrase. AA stitch in time saves nine@
                        can translate into AASITS9.@

                                  DO NOT USE

     Cyour login name in any form (as-is, reversed, capitalized, doubled,
                                   etc.).

    Ca name associated with you in any way (your middle initial, spouse=s
   first name, a maiden name, pet=s name, child=s name, or favorite
   celebrity). In fact, don=t choose a proper name, whether a first name
   or a last name.

    Cother information easily obtained about you. This includes license
   plate numbers, telephone numbers, social security numbers, the brand of
   your automobile, the name of the street you live on, etc.

    Ca password of all digits, or all the same letters. This significantly
   decreases the search time for a cracker.

    Cany word in any dictionary in any language in any form. Don=t simply
   reverse the spelling of a dictionary word. Again, password crackers are
   very smart little programs.

    Cany slang words or obscenity, technical term or jargon, computer
   brand names or operating systems.

    Csimple patterns, including: passwords of all the same letters, simple
   keyboard patterns, or anything that someone might easily recognize if
   they see you typing it.

    Cobjects that are in your field of vision at your workstation.

    Cany password that you have used in the past.

    Cpasswords found on a password protection checklist

    Ca password shorter than six characters.

    DO

                      CChange your password frequently.

    CUse both upper and lowercase letters.

    CUse numbers and special symbols (!@#$) with letters. For example,
   AYou Are My Sunshine@ becomes Yr#M?s.

    CCreate simple mnemonics (memory aids) or compounds that are easily
   remembered, yet hard to decipher: 2bOn2b for ATo Be Or Not To Be@.

    CUse two or more words together (Yet_Another_Example).

    CUse misspelled words (WhutdooUmeenIkan'tSpel?).

    CUse a minimum of six characters. Generally, the longer the password,
   the more secure it is.

     METHOD TO CHOOSE SECURE AND EASY TO REMEMBER PASSWORDS

    CChoose a line or two from a song or poem, and use the first letter of
                                 each word.

    CAlternate between one consonant and one or two vowels, up to eight
   characters. This provides nonsense words that are usually
   pronounceable, and thus easily remembered. Examples: Aroutboo,@
   Aquadpop,@

    CChoose two short words and concatenate them with a punctuation
   character between them. For example: Adog;rain,@ Abook+mug,''
   Akid?goat.@

     PROTECTING PASSWORDS

    NEVER write your password down anywhere, nor share your password with
                                   anyone.

            NEVER tape your password near terminals or calendars.

       The non-print and non-display options are to be used to protect
                                 passwords.

                              CHANGING PASSWORDS

    Passwords must be changed at least once every 120 days or no less than
       every six months. Passwords are to be changed immediately when
               compromised or when personnel leave employment.

                      AWHY GO THROUGH ALL THE TROUBLE?''

      Passwords are the primary defense and front-line security for your
       personal data. If someone obtains your password, then they have
      complete access to your account and all its data, and to all the
   privileges and abilities you have. If you give your password to anyone,
         you are giving them significant power while keeping all the
   responsibility for their wielding it. There are always better and safer
      ways of doing anything legitimate than giving away your password.

   MALICIOUS SOFTWARE

    Malicious software presents an increasingly serious security problem
   for computer systems and networks. Malicious software includes viruses
   and other destructive programs, such as Trojan horses and network
   worms. This type of software is often written as independent programs
   that appear to provide useful functions but contain malicious programs
   that can be very destructive. It can be quickly spread though software
   bulletin boards, shareware, and users unaware of the danger, who copy
   and share these programs in an unauthorized manner. It can also be
   spread by users sharing data files and software products. Networks are
   particularly vulnerable as they allow very rapid spread of the virus to
   all systems connected to the network.

    A program that is infected with a virus can infect any host in which
   the program is used. Because of the insidious nature of a virus, any
   user may become an unwitting propagator. NOAA's dependence on networked
   computer systems, personal computers (PCS), and office automation makes
   us susceptible to virus "attacks." Computer viruses have become a
   threat to virtually everyone who uses a computer. A virus can destroy
   programs and data by copying itself to other programs. It is then
   executed when the infected program is run. It can disable computers and
   entire computer networks. It can also cause lost computer time and
   staff resources to track and eliminate it.

    Most of NOAA's Line Offices have been infected with different computer
   viruses. In many cases, data was not lost, but time and staff resources
   were wasted tracking and eliminating these viruses. These viruses are
   unintentionally received through disk, bulletin boards, on-line
   services, E-mail, the Internet, and organizational networks.

    PC=s are more susceptible to viruses than other types of computers due
   to their widespread use. However, viruses can be created for any type
   of computer. Malicious programs such as Trojan horses and trap doors
   were originally written for mainframe computer systems. Introduction of
   malicious programs into these larger systems is usually caused by
   unauthorized use of the system.

    To minimize the risk of viruses and other malicious software to NOAA
   systems and

   networks, all employees should adhere to the following:

    !Make frequent back-up copies of software and data. Employees should
   back-up new software immediately, retaining the original distribution
   diskettes in a safe and secure location. Write-protect original
   diskettes prior to making back-up copies. If a virus destroys the
   working copy, the original software is still available.

    !Use only newly-formatted diskettes for copying software for back-up
   storage. Used disks may already contain malicious programs which would
   contaminate the back up copies.

    !Scan all out-going and incoming software and data diskettes for
   viruses or other malicious coding. Use only new media for making copies
   for distribution. Where possible, use a stand-alone computer system
   when preparing copies for distribution.

    !Use only certified commercial software. All PC machine-readable media
   will be scanned for malicious software before initial use. This
   includes software sealed in "shrink-wrapped" plastic.

    !Use only authorized software. It is imperative that machine-readable
   software and data files be obtained from reliable sources. Viruses are
   often spread through free or shared programs, games, demonstration
   programs, and programs downloaded from bulletin boards. Employees must
   not use privately-owned software or take software from their office
   without management approval. Commercial software must be obtained
   through appropriate procurement channels. In-house developed software
   must be done in accordance with established policy within the operating
   unit and have prior management approval.

    !Shareware and freeware software must be obtained only with prior
   management approval. Software obtained electronically from bulletin
   boards and the Internet should be downloaded to newly formatted
   diskettes and not directly to the computer hard disk. All newly
   acquired software, regardless of source, is subject to the scanning
   requirements.

    !For all of NOAA systems, user identification and passwords are the
   primary protection mechanism against malicious software. If the
   would-be perpetrators cannot get into the system, they cannot put
   malicious software on the system.

    !Portable computer systems, such as laptops, that leave NOAA
   controlled areas must be scanned for viruses before and after
   connecting to systems or software owned by other organizations.

    !Never use a local area network file server as a workstation. File
   servers should be located in areas where access is restricted during
   workings hours and locked after hours.

    !Never start up (boot) your computer from a diskette unless it is the
   original

   write-protected system master or a trusted copy.

       VIRUS PROTECTION

       To protect your software and data, use NOAA's standard detection
    software, VirusScan by McAfee Associates. This software is capable of
    continuous monitoring and reporting malicious programs and should be
     installed on hard disks to prevent contamination. Periodic scans of
    hard disks, using VirusScan, should be performed for systems without
                         this protection installed.

      NOAA users can obtain copies for home and office PCS by contacting
      their system administrator or Line Office Information Technology
   Security Officer (ITSO). (See inside back cover for the ITSO list.) The
         software can be downloaded from the NOAA Security Home Page
                     http://www.rdc.noaa.gov/~security.

     DEFINITION OF A SECURITY BREACH

    A security breach is any violation of computer security policies,
   procedures and requirements which have been established to reduce the
   risk of misuse, abuse, corruption, unauthorized access, improper
   disclosure, loss of availability for program operations, or any other
   compromise of NOAA information resources.

    Each system's level of security must protect the confidentiality,
   integrity, and availability of the information. Failure to protect
   passwords, to log off of terminals and/or PC's when working with
   sensitive data, improper disposal of printed sensitive data, i.e.
   passwords, computer printouts (listings) and/or unsecured desks, doors,
   cabinets, or other facilities (computer room) are examples of computer
   security breaches. The use of Government automated information systems
   and or resources for personal gain, profit, entertainment, or non
   work-related purposes is also considered a security breach.

    All NOAA employees are to report to their supervisor and ITSO any
   security violations on the following topics:

    Security breachesUnusual events

   Unauthorized disclosuresViruses

            REPORTING SECURITY BREACHES/VIRUSES [Image2.gif]

    Should a virus or hacker intrusion be detected within NOAA offices, an
   initial verbal report to the Line Office ITSO is required within 24
   hours of the incident. Within seven working days of the incident, a
   written report must be forwarded to the Line Office ITSO using NOAA
   Form 47-43. An electronic copy of the form can be obtained from your
   line office ITSO, and returned to the ITSO electronically. The form can
   also be down loaded from the NOAA Security Web Page.

    THE INTERNET

                       SPREADING COMPUTER VIRUS HOAXES

                                 [Image3.gif]

     The Internet has become the leading source of information regarding
   computer virus threats. However, interspersed among real virus notices
     are computer virus hoaxes. These virus hoaxes are sometimes called
    Junk-mail viruses because they act like other computer viruses, only
     they use people as the method of infecting new systems. While these
   hoaxes do not infect systems, they are still time consuming and costly
                                 to handle.

    Users of the Internet must learn to be skeptical, and think carefully
     before spreading a message to new users. Remember these points for
                             identifying a hoax:

     !It is recommended that you DO NOT circulate virus warnings without
   first checking with your system administrator, system security officer
    or IT Security Officer. Real warnings about viruses and other network
    problems are issued by different response teams (CIAC, CERT, ASSIST,
   NASIRC, etc.) and are digitally signed by the sending team using Pretty
     Good Privacy (PGP) encryption key. If you download a warning from a
      teams web site or validate the PGP signature, you can usually be
                      assured that the warning is real.

    !Warnings without the name of the person sending the original notice,
   or warnings with names, addresses and phone numbers that do not
   actually exist are probably hoaxes.

    !If the warning urges you to pass it on to your friends. This should
   raise a red flag that the warning may be a hoax.

    !If the warning indicates that it is a Federal Communication
   Commission (FCC) warning. According to the FCC, they have not and never
   will disseminate warnings on viruses. It is not part of their job.

    !If a message seems like it should be shared with a large number of
   people. The more urgent it sounds, the more skeptical you should be.

    !These hoaxes are not computer viruses. They are more like a social
   virus or a thought virus.

     WHAT TO DO WHEN YOU RECEIVE A WARNING

      NOAA users are requested to please not spread unconfirmed warnings
   about viruses. If you receive an invalidated warning, DO NOT forward it
    to all your friends. All warnings are to be forwarded to your system
              administrator or IT Security Officer to validate.

       There is ABSOLUTELY NO WAY for an E-mail message to infect your
     computer with a virus just by reading it. Note however, that it IS
    possible to download an executable program through e-mail, or through
    your web browser. To protect your hard drive against viruses, always
                        download files to a diskette.

                         IS AN E-MAIL VIRUS POSSIBLE?

     No. There is no way for a virus to spread simply by reading E-mail.

    A few people have gone through mental gymnastics trying to dream up a
      way such a thing could be done. The closest anyone has come is to
      infect a program with a virus, encode the program into text with
     uuencode, binhex, etc., and E-mail the encoded program. The person
     receiving the E-mail would have to download the mail to their hard
    drive, decode it, and run the infected program. That's not even close
              to the claims made for the spread of Good Times.

   You should, of course, be wary of any file attachments a stranger sends
    you. At the least, you should check such file attachments for viruses
                            before running them.

              HOW CAN I PROTECT MYSELF FROM VIRUSES IN GENERAL?

    Use NOAA's standard virus software, VirusScan, by McAfee Associates.
         This software is obtainable on the NOAA Security Home page:
     http://rdc.noaa.gov/~security. Most people get into trouble because
     they never bother to check their computer for viruses. Most viruses
   spread through floppy disks, so isolating yourself from online services
             and the Internet will not protect you from viruses.

      The following virus hoaxes have been circulating throughout NOAA:

                    Irina Virus HoaxGood Times Virus Hoax

                    Deeyenda Virus HoaxGhost.exe Warning

                              Penpal Greetings

                               ONLINE REFERENCES

    For a description of each of the above virus hoaxes, check out one of
                                the following

                             online references:

          NOAA Security Home Page: http://www.rdc.noaa.gov/~security

         Computer Virus Myths home page: http://www.kumite.com/myths/

     McAfee Associates Home Page: http://www.mcafee.com/support/hoax.html

                                  NETIQUETTE

                    Internet tips on proper ANetiquette.@

      Search for the FAQs: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ=s) are freely
   available throughout cyberspace. In this way, users new to the Net can
     get up to speed without clogging the wires with a lot of repetitive
                                  queries.

    Don=t spam: WWW sites are the appropriate way to advertise promotional
        messages to news groups, mailing lists, etc. is very uncool.

     Don=t flame: Remember the old adage about Anever starting something,
    unless you=re prepared to finish it@? Well, in regard to flaming, it
   would read more like Anever start something unless you=re prepared for
    it to never finish.@Before you ignite the first match in a flame war,
          ask yourself if you=re willing to endure the return fire.

    Don=t SHOUT: Using ALL CAPS in Net correspondence implies that you are
                                  SHOUTING.

    Lurk for awhile: If you sign onto news groups or mailing lists, Alurk@
    for awhile. Read the posting of others for at least a few days, until
       you know what list participants talk about and at what level of
                           expertise they commune.

      Stay on the topic: If you lurk before posting, you=ll notice that
    those maintaining the list or group usually try to stay on topic. You
                             should do the same.

     Set date and time: Most E-mail systems stamp messages with the date
      and time. If you have questions about setting your PC=s clock or
      calendar, consult your organization=s information systems staff.

      Take a breath or two before you respond: E-mail correspondence is
    unforgiving. If you type a furious response on paper, there is plenty
    of time to cool off between the office printer and the mail-box. But
   with E-mail, once you send it, it is gone. Unless you take a moment or
        two, to consider the consequences, you could regret it later.

      Don=t hog the line: When you=re finished surfing the WWW, log-off.

      Use emoticons: The nuances of human interaction (the glance, wink,
      smirk, sigh) are absent in electronic communications (other than
    video-conferencing). Emoticons help avoid misunderstandings. Samples
                                  include:

                                 :-) (Happy)

                                :-( (Unhappy)

                              :-C (Very unhappy)

                                 :-} (Smirk)

                            :-J (Tongue-in-cheek)

                                  :X (Oops!)

                                <L> (Laughing)

                                <G> (Grinning)

                        IMHO (In my humble opinion...)

                   IMNSHO (In my not so humble opinion...)

                             PROPER USE OF GOVERNMENT EQUIPMENT

      The computer systems you use in your daily work should be used only
     for authorized purposes and in a lawful manner. There are computer
    crime laws that prescribe criminal penalties for those who illegally
    access Federal computer systems or data. One example is the Computer
   Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (PL 99-474). Additionally, the unauthorized
     use of Federal computer systems or use of authorized privileges for
    unauthorized purposes could result in disciplinary action. This also
              includes all government facsimile (fax) machines.

       The Standards of Ethical Conduct are found in 5 Code of Federal
    regulations (CFR) Part 2635. Part 2635.704 (a) of the CFR states: "An
     employee has a duty to protect and conserve Government property and
        shall not use such property, or allow its use, for other than
                            authorized purposes."

       The Department of Commerce Employee Handbook, Chapter 14, states:

      "The use of any Government computer facility, computer system, or
     related computer equipment, including the use of data terminals and
   word processors, for anything other than official, authorized purposes
           is prohibited. Employees are also prohibited from using
       computer-generated data or information for anything other than
   official, authorized purposes. Commerce employees or other individuals
   with access to Government computers and related equipment who knowingly
     misuse this equipment or its output for personal, recreational, or
    other unofficial uses will be subject to disciplinary actions, up to
                   dismissal and/or criminal prosecution."

    In addition to misuse of Government property you must remain cognizant
   of misuse of work time. Part 2635.705 (a) of the CFR states: "Unless
   authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use such time for
   other purposes, an employee shall use official time in an honest effort
   to perform official duties." Unauthorized use of Government property
   and/or time will not be tolerated.

               IS YOUR COMPUTER HUMMING ALONG WHILE YOU=RE OUT?

     Why bother turning off your computer when you leave for lunch or for
    home? After all, you=ll simply have to restart it when you return. If
   that=s your attitude, you=re not worried about conserving energy. And,
   you=re not in step with official concern over energy efficiency in the
    operation of Federal buildings. Recent legislation requiring Federal
       agencies to reduce building energy use has caused most Federal
     employees to begin looking more closely at energy used by personal
                     computers and associated equipment.

        Executive Order 12759 of April 17, 1991, requires that Federal
    agencies reduce their energy consumption to 20 percent below the 1985
     levels by the year 2000. Personal computers are responsible for the
      fastest growing segment of energy usage in Federal buildings. The
   increased used of personal computers has added to the burden placed on
      building air conditioning systems and electrical components, say
       experts. Research suggests that 30 percent to 40 percent of all
    computers are left on at night and over weekends, and that during the
         day computers are active less than 20 percent of the time.

     Over time, the personal computers and associated equipment which are
     used in the Federal workforce will be replaced with technologically
   advanced equipment that will automatically Apower-down@ when not being
      used. In the meantime, there are several procedures which can be
     adopted that will help reduce the consumption of energy used in the
    buildings like those used by NOAA. A key component to reducing energy
      consumed by the use of personal computers is to promote employee
   awareness on energy efficient practices, the experts say. The following
    tips will help to save energy and ease the burden on Federal building
                  air conditioning and electrical systems:

    1.Turn equipment off during non-work hours. The energy consumption of
    a personal computer can be reduced by more than 75 percent by simply
               turning off the machine during non-work hours.

    2.Turn equipment off whenever you leave the office for an extended
   period of time or for any long period of inactivity when it will not be
   inconvenient to re-boot or re-start.

    3.Turn off just the monitor between shorter absences of use. This will
   reduce the unit=s power consumption about 50 percent.

                              FACTS ABOUT SOFTWARE

                                 [Image4.gif]

                                   THE LAW

       Title 17, United States Code, Section 106 gives copyright owners
      exclusive rights to reproduce and distribute their material, and
     Section 504 states that copyright infringers can be held liable for
    damages to the copyright owner. Title 18, United States Code provides
            felony penalties for software copyright infringement.

        It is the responsibility of all NOAA employees to protect the
       government's interests in the performance of their duties. This
   includes responsibility for assuring that commercial software, acquired
        by the government, is used only in accordance with licensing
   agreements. Likewise, it is also your responsibility to assure that any
     proprietary software is properly licensed before being installed on
   government equipment. This policy does not apply to software developed
     by or for a federal agency and no restrictions apply to its use or
                 distribution within the federal government.

    Your acquisition and use of software is governed by copyright law and
   the license agreement accompanying the software. Therefore, you should
                                  be aware:

      !It is illegal to copy or distribute software or its accompanying
      documentation, programs, applications, data, codes, and manuals,
          without permission or a license from the copyright owner.

    !It is illegal for organizations to consciously or unconsciously
   encourage, allow, compel, or pressure employees to make or distribute
   unauthorized software copies.

    !It is illegal to infringe the laws against unauthorized software
   copying because someone requests or compels it.

    !It is illegal to loan software so that a copy can be made

    !It is illegal to make, import, possess, or deal with articles
   intended to facilitate the removal of any technical means applied to
   protect the software program.

                                THE LANGUAGE

                                 [Image5.gif]

     Software language is not just about programming, but also about the
    management and use of original software under copyright law. Here are
                  some definitions of commonly used terms:

    Intellectual PropertyCAn original computer program is regarded by law
   as the intellectual property of the person or company which created the
      work. Computer programs are protected under copyright law, which
      provides that any unauthorized copying of such works is illegal.

      Software License AgreementCA software license agreement states the
    terms of usage, as permitted by the copyright owner, for the specific
        software product to which it pertains. The license agreement
         accompanying software is stated explicitly in the software
    documentation or on the computer screen when the program is started.
     The price of software covers the legal acquisition of the software
    license and binds the purchaser to use the software only according to
               the terms and conditions stated in the license.

       Unauthorized CopyingCUnless otherwise stated, the purchase of a
   software license allows the purchaser to make only one "back-up" copy,
      to be used in case the original software disk malfunctions or is
   destroyed. Any other copy of the original software is considered to be
    an unauthorized copy, and is an infringement of the license agreement
     and the copyright law which protects software and governs its use.

       Software PiracyCSoftware piracy is the term used to describe the
    unauthorized copying or use of a computer program in any manner other
    than what is permitted by copyright law or by the author as stated in
     the software license agreement. Any person who engages in software
         piracy commits an illegal act under general copyright law.

                                 [Image6.gif]

                             THE CODE OF ETHICS

     Any duplication of licensed software except for backup and archival
     purposes is a violation of the law. Any unauthorized duplication of
    copyrighted computer software is contrary to the NOAA's standards of
                                  conduct.

       In compliance with NOAA's software license agreements and NOAA=s
            policy concerning software duplication, an employee:

      1.Will use all software in accordance with our license agreements.

   2.Will be provided legitimate software. No employee of NOAA will make
   any unauthorized copies of any software under any circumstances. Anyone
   found copying software other than for backup purposes violates the law.

   3.Will not tolerate the use of any unauthorized copies of software in
   NOAA. Any person illegally reproducing software can be subject to civil
   and criminal penalties including fines and imprisonment. We do not
   condone illegal copying of software under any circumstances and anyone
   who makes, uses, or otherwise acquires unauthorized software shall be
   appropriately disciplined.

   4.Will not give software to any outsiders (including clients,
   customers, friends, and others).

   5.Who determines that there may be a misuse of software within NOAA
   shall notify their supervisor or Information Technology Security
   Officer.

   6.Ensures that all software used on NOAA computers will be properly
   purchased through appropriate procedures.

     QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT COPYING SOFTWARE

                     by Software Publishers Association

     Q:Is it Okay to Copy My Colleague's Software?A:NO, it's not okay to
      copy your colleague's software. Software is protected by federal
    copyright law, which says that you can't make such additional copies
      without the permission of the copyright holder. By protecting the
   investment of computer software companies in software development, the
    copyright law serves the cause of promoting broad public availability
   of new, creative, and innovative products. These companies devote large
   portions of their earnings to the creation of new software products and
   they deserve a fair return on their investment. The creative teams who
       develop the softwareCprogrammers, writers, graphic artists and
    othersCalso deserve fair compensation for their efforts. Without the
   protection given by our copyright laws, they would be unable to produce
   the valuable programs that have become so important in our daily lives:
      educational software that teaches us much needed skills; business
         software that allows us to save time, effort and money; and
   entertainment and personal productivity software that enhances leisure
                                    time.

    Q:That Makes Sense, but What Do I Get out of Purchasing My Own
   Software?

   A: When you purchase authorized copies of software programs, you
   receive user guides and tutorials quick reference cards, the
   opportunity to purchase upgrades, and technical support from the
   software publishers. For most software programs, you can read about
   user benefits in the registration brochure or upgrade flyer in the
   product box.

    Q:What Exactly Does the Law Say about Copying Software?

   A:The law says that anyone who purchases a copy of software has the
   right to load that copy onto a single computer and to make another copy
   "for archival purposes only." It is illegal to use that software on
   more than one computer or to make or distribute copies of that software
   for any other purpose unless specific permission has been obtained from
   the copyright owner. If you pirate software, you may face not only a
   civil suit for damages and other relief, but criminal liability as
   well, including fines and jail terms of up to one year.

    Q:So I'm Never Allowed to Copy Software for Any Other Reason?

   A:That's correct. Other than copying the software you purchase onto a
   single computer and making another copy "for archival purposes only,"
   the copyright law prohibits you from making additional copies of the
   software for any other reason unless you obtain the permission of the
   software company.

    Q:At My Company, We Pass Disks Around All the Time. We All Assume That
   this must Be Okay since it Was the Company That Purchased the Software
   in the First Place.

   A:Many employee=s don't realize that corporations are bound by the
   copyright laws, just like everyone else. Such conduct exposes the
   company (and possibly the persons involved) to liability for copyright
   infringement. Consequently, more and more corporations concerned about
   their liability have written policies against such "softlifting".
   Employees may face disciplinary action if they make extra copies of the
   company's software for use at home or on additional computers within
   the office. A good rule to remember is that there must be one
   authorized copy of a software product for every computer upon which it
   is run.

     Q:Do the Same Rules Apply to Bulletin Boards and User Groups? I
   Always Thought That the Reason They Got Together Was to Share Software.

   A:Yes. Bulletin boards and user groups are bound by the copyright law
   just as individuals and corporations. However, to the extent they offer
   shareware or public domain software, this is a perfectly acceptable
   practice. Similarly, some software companies offer bulletin boards and
   users groups special demonstration versions of their products, which in
   some instances may be copied. In any event, it is the responsibility of
   the bulletin board operator or user group to respect copyright law and
   to ensure that it is not used as a vehicle for unauthorized copying or
   distribution.

   Q:What about Schools and Professional Training Organizations?

   A:The same copyright responsibilities that apply to individuals and
   corporations apply to schools and professional training organizations.
   No one is exempt from the copyright law.

    Q:I'll Bet Most of the People Who Copy Software Don't Even Know That
   They're Breaking the Law.

   A:Because the software industry is relatively new, and because copying
   software is so easy, many people are either unaware of the laws
   governing software use or choose to ignore them. It is the
   responsibility of each and every software user to understand and adhere
   to copyright law. Ignorance of the law is no excuse. If you are part of
   an organization, see what you can do to initiate a policy statement
   that everyone respects. Also, suggest that your management consider
   conducting a software audit. Finally, as an individual, help spread the
   word that the users should be "software legal."

      The Software Publishers Association (SPA) also offers a number of
   other materials designed to help you comply with the Federal Copyright
                                    Law.

      For educational materials, call SPA at (202) 452-1600 or check out
                   their web page at: http://www.spa.org.

                          GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES

           All Federal computer system users share certain general
     responsibilities for information resource protection. The following
                  considerations should guide your actions.

    !Treat information as you would any valuable asset. You would not walk
     away from your desk leaving cash or other valuables unattended. You
    should take the same care to protect information. If you are not sure
     of the value or sensitivity of the various kinds of information you
                   handle, ask your manager for guidance.

    !Use Government computer systems only for lawful and authorized
   purposes. The computer systems you use in your daily work should be
   used only for authorized purposes and in a lawful manner. There are
   computer crime laws that prescribe criminal penalties for those who
   illegally access Federal computer systems or data. One example is the
   Computer Fraud & Abuse Act of 1986 (P.L. 99-474). Additionally, the
   unauthorized use of Federal computer systems or use of authorized
   privileges for unauthorized purposes could result in disciplinary
   action. This also includes all government facsimile (fax) machines.
   (See page 15, Proper Use of Government Equipment.)

    !Observe policies and procedures established by NOAA and local
   management. NOAA has established requirements for the protection of its
   information. General guidelines may be found in the NOAA Administrative
   Order 212-13 and the Department of Commerce Information Technology
   Management Handbook. Management within your office should provide you
   with specific local policies as they apply to the systems you use.

    !Recognize that you are accountable for your activities on computer
   systems. After you receive authorization to use any Federal computer
   system, you become personally responsible and accountable for your
   activity on the system. Accordingly, your use should be restricted to
   those functions needed to carry out job responsibilities.

    !Report unusual occurrences to your supervisor. Many losses would be
   avoided if computer users would report any circumstances that seem
   unusual or irregular. Warning signals could include such things as
   unexplainable system activity that you did not perform, data that
   appears to be of questionable accuracy, and unexpected or incorrect
   processing results. If you should notice anything of a questionable
   nature, bring it to your supervisor's attention.

                          EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES

         Each NOAA employee must comply with the following policies:

     !Government ADP equipment may not be used for activities other than
                        approved Government business.

   Use of Government equipment for personal business or non-work related
   activities (i.e. playing computer games, or loading unauthorized
   software) is strictly prohibited. (See pages 15 and 22)

    !Bulletin Boards should only be used as an identifier of available
   software packages and information.

   Bulletin Boards (BBS) provide a service that allows computer users to
   survey the latest updates offered by a company or to review newly
   developed programs that may be useful. Programs located on public BBS,
   that are not closely monitored, have a high risk of being contaminated.
   Some BBS allow users to upload, as well as download, information
   directly to and from the Bulletin Board. Allowing users to upload
   information increases the chance of having contaminated software on the
   Board. The procedures for copying freeware and shareware (shown below)
   should be used for obtaining software listed on BBS.

    !Public domain software may not be placed on a NOAA system until
   certain requirements are met.

   Freeware and shareware are examples of public domain software available
   on BBS. This software can be acquired with little or no compensation to
   the developer. If any payment is required, the software cannot be
   acquired without prior authorization. Downloading software directly
   from BBS can be very costly if the program is contaminated with a
   malevolent virus. If freeware or shareware is to be placed on an NOAA
   system, the following procedures must be followed:

    1.Establish that there is a valid need for the software;

    2.Obtain approval from an Information Resource Management (IRM)
   Official to load the software. Consideration will only be given to
   software that is obtained from a known reputable source. Software may
   not be obtained from sources that have uncontrolled public access for
   uploading;

    3.Obtain the software directly from the vendor or developer of the
   software either by disc/tape or downloading the code onto a disc/tape;
   and

    4.Before installing the product, all possible precautions should be
   taken to insure that the software is not contaminated.

    !Software that is copyrighted may not be copied or distributed to
   unauthorized users without vendor authorization.

   Vendors place specific copyright restrictions on purchased software
   which are to be strictly enforced. Some software is purchased with the
   intent to be copied to other systems (i.e. software with a
   right-to-copy and/or a site license). These practices are permissible
   because they are authorized in advance by the vendor. Use of software
   that is copyrighted without such authorization, is a criminal offense
   and is punishable by fine and/or imprisonment. (See page 17, Facts
   About Software)

    !Authorization must be received before software can be loaded onto
   Government equipment.

   Any software necessary to complete job related activities must be
   purchased through a Government procurement. Computer games or any
   nonbusiness related software that is purchased by an employee, may not
   be loaded on Government equipment. Privately developed and privately
   purchased software that is compatible with existing software and
   necessary for completing an authorized job function, may be loaded onto
   Government equipment only if it does not conflict with any copyright
   restrictions, and after receiving authorization from management.

    !Confidential passwords that are issued to NOAA employees may never be
   published and should be changed periodically.

   NOAA systems contain information that may not be released and should
   not be accessed by unauthorized personnel. Access to NOAA systems is
   protected by passwords. These passwords can not be shared or published.
   Publishing or sharing a password gives unauthorized users the ability
   to access proprietary information and possibly damage existing NOAA
   systems. If an employee is aware that someone has access to his
   password or when an employee leaves, the password should be changed
   immediately. Passwords must also be changed on a routine basis to
   maintain confidentiality. (See pages 4 and 5 on passwords).

                       SECURITY AND CONTROL GUIDELINES

      Some common-sense protective measures can reduce the risk of loss,
   damage, or disclosure of information. Following are the most important
    areas of information systems controls that assure that the system is
           properly used, resistant to disruptions, and reliable.

      !Make certain no one can impersonate you. If a password is used to
      verify your identity, this is the key to system security. Do not
      disclose your password to anyone, or allow anyone to observe your
   password as you enter it during the sign-on process. If you choose your
   own password, avoid electing a password with any personal associations,
    or one that is very simple or short. The aim is to select a password
   that would be difficult to guess or derive. "1REDDOG" would be a better
                            password than "DUKE."

    !If your system allows you to change your own password, do so
   regularly. NOAA and the Department of Commerce require passwords be
   changed every 120 days or no less frequently than every six months.
   Periodic password changes keep undetected intruders from continuously
   using the password of a legitimate user. After you are logged on, the
   computer will attribute all activity to your user ID. Therefore, never
   leave your workstation without logging off or inactivating your
   workstationCeven for a few minutes.

   !Safeguard sensitive information from disclosure to others. People
   often forget to lock up sensitive reports and computer media containing
   sensitive data when they leave their work areas. Information carelessly
   left on top of desks and in unlocked storage can be casually observed,
   or deliberately stolen. Every employee who works with sensitive
   information should have lockable space available for storage when
   information is not in use. If you are not sure what information should
   be locked up or what locked storage is available, ask your supervisor.

    While working, be aware of the visibility of data on your personal
   computer or terminal display screen. You may need to reposition
   equipment or furniture to eliminate over-the-shoulder viewing. Be
   especially careful near windows and in public areas. Label all
   sensitive diskettes and other computer media to alert other employees
   of the need to be especially careful. When no longer needed, sensitive
   information should be deleted or discarded in such a way that
   unauthorized individuals cannot recover the data. Printed reports
   should be finely shredded, while data on magnetic media should be
   overwritten. Files that are merely deleted are not really erased and
   can still be recovered.

    !Install physical security devices or software on personal computers.
   The value and popularity of personal computers make theft a big
   problem, especially in low-security office areas. Relatively
   inexpensive hardware devices greatly reduce the risk of equipment loss.
   Such devices involve lock-down cables or enclosures that attach
   equipment to furniture. Another approach is to place equipment in
   lockable cabinets.

    When data is stored on a hard disk, take some steps to keep
   unauthorized individuals from accessing that data. A power lock device
   only allows key-holders to turn on power to the personal computer.
   Where there is a need to segregate information between multiple
   authorized users of a personal computer, additional security in the
   form of software is probably needed. Specific files could be encrypted
   to make them unintelligible to unauthorized staff, or access control
   software can divide storage space among authorized users, restricting
   each user to their own files.

    !Avoid costly disruptions caused by data or hardware loss. Disruptions
   and delays are expensive. No one enjoys working frantically to re-enter
   work, do the same job twice, or fix problems while new work piles up.
   Most disruptions can be prevented, and the impact of disruptions can be
   minimized by advance planning. Proper environmental conditions and
   power supplies minimize equipment outages and information loss. Many
   electrical circuits in office areas do not constitute an adequate power
   source, so dedicated circuits for computer systems should be
   considered. Cover equipment when not in use to protect it from dust,
   water leaks, and other hazards.

    For protection from accidental or deliberate destruction of data,
   regular data backups are essential. Complete system backups should be
   taken at intervals determined by how quickly information changes or by
   the volume of transactions. Backups should be stored in another
   location, to guard against the possibility of original and backup
   copies being destroyed by the same fire or other disaster. Failure to
   safeguard your work wastes not only your time but also the government's
   investment.

    !Maintain the authorized hardware/software configuration. Some offices
   have been affected by computer "viruses" acquired through seemingly
   useful or innocent software obtained from public access bulletin boards
   or other sources; others have been liable for software illegally copied
   by employees. The installation of unauthorized hardware or software can
   cause damage, invalidate warranties, or have other negative
   consequences. Install only hardware or software that has been acquired
   through normal acquisition procedures and comply with all software
   licensing agreement requirements.

                         PERSONAL COMPUTER SECURITY

     Floppy DisksCA floppy disk is capable of storing many pages of typed
   data. There are two sizes of disks: 5.25" and 3.5" both double and high
   density capacity. The 5.25" size needs to be handled more carefully due
             to its softer material. Some handling suggestions:

     [Image7.gif] !Don't touch the disk surface. It's easily contaminated,
    so something as minor as a fingerprint can cause error. On a dry day,
    your finger could have enough electrostatic charge to damage the data
                                permanently.

    !Do use a felt tip pen when writing on the disk label. Pencil or ball
   point pressure can destroy floppy precision.

    !Don't use alcohol, thinners, or Freon to clean the disk. Chemical
   fumes can endanger the magnetic coating, so don't expose it to solvents
   like nail polish or duplicating machine fluids.

    !Do keep disks in their protective jackets when not in the drive unit.

    !Do keep disks stored upright in their boxes.

    !Do keep disks clear of eraser crumbs, dust, and smoke particles.

    !Do back-ups. Then store them in a separate facility from the
   originals.

    !Don't expose the disk to magnetic or magnetized objects. Data can be
   destroyed, scrambled, or wiped out completely. A color TV, CRT,
   electric motor, or other devices can destroy data integrity.
   Screwdrivers, paper clips, car keys or any metal object may also be
   magnetized.

    !Don't put a telephone on top of a disk, the disk drive, or a box of
   disks. One ring can cause damage.

    !Don't bend, fold, or use rubber bands or paper clips on the disk. Any
   warping can lead to mistracking.

    !Don't rest heavy objects on the disk. It can cause a crimp that would
   lead to mistracking.

    !Do protect your floppy at least as well as you would the data that's
   on it.

   !Don=t keep in too cold or too hot an area.

    !Insert disk carefully into the drive. Never remove a floppy disk from
   the drive if the red light is on.

    !Lock up all disks containing highly sensitive information when office
   is unattended or overnight.

       SUMMARY OF SECURITY PRACTICES

     Ultimately, computer security is the user's responsibility. You, the
     user, must be alert to possible security breaches and adhere to the
      regulations that have been established within NOAA. The security
    practices listed are not inclusive, but rather designed to remind you
    and raise your awareness toward securing your information resources:

                            PROTECT YOUR EQUIPMENT

                      !Keep it in a secure environment.

   !Keep food, drink, and cigarettes AWAY from it.

   !Know where the fire suppression equipment is located and how to use
   it.

   !To reduce fire risks, turn off computer monitors during non-working
   hours.

   !Use of Government equipment will be used only for authorized purposes
   and in a lawful manner.

    PROTECT YOUR AREA

         !Keep unauthorized people AWAY from your equipment and data.

   !Challenge strangers in your area.

    PROTECT YOUR PASSWORD

                  !Never write it down or give it to anyone.

   !Don't use names, numbers or dates which are personally identified with
   you.

   !Password length is to be a minimum of six characters.

   !Passwords are to be changed at least every 120 days or no less than
   every six months. Passwords are to be changed immediately when
   compromised or when personnel leave employment.

     PROTECT YOUR FILES

           !Don't allow unauthorized access to your files and data.

   !NEVER leave your equipment unattended with your password activated -
   SIGN OFF!

   !Don=t send sensitive information through E-Mail.

      PROTECT AGAINST VIRUSES

                      !Don't use unauthorized software.

   !Back up all software and data.

   !Back up your files before implementing ANY new software.

   !Scan all incoming and outgoing diskettes for computer viruses.

   !To scan/eradicate viruses, use the NOAA's standard detection software,
   McAfee=s VirusScan.

     LOCK UP STORAGE MEDIA CONTAINING SENSITIVE DATA

         !If the data or information is sensitive or critical to your
                           operation, lock it up!

    BACK UP YOUR DATA

     !Keep duplicates of your sensitive data in a safe place, out of your
                               immediate area.

   !Back it up as often as necessary.

     REPORT SECURITY VIOLATIONS

      !Tell your supervisor if you see any unauthorized changes to your
                                    data.

   !Immediately report any loss of data or programs, whether automated or
   hard copy. Viruses and hacker intrusions are to be reported on NOAA
   Form 47-43.

     COPYRIGHT LAWS

    !If you purchase a copy of software, you have only the right to (1)
   copy the software onto a single computer and (2) make another copy for
   archival purposes only.

   !When upgrades to software are purchased, the old version must either
   be destroyed or returned to the software developer.

   !It is illegal to use the old software version on another computer.

   !Upgraded software is usually purchased at a reduced cost and is
   considered a continuation of the original license, not an additional
   license.

   !Each NOAA office should ensure compliance with licensing agreements
   issued by the manufacturer for software purchased by the Government.

   !Copies of original software, upgrades, and documentation should be
   accounted for and retained.

   INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

                          SECURITY OFFICERS (ITSOs)

    NOAA/ITSO

   Office of Administration

   Rebecca Vasvary

   Banyan: Becky R.Vasvary@ISFOSD@OA

   Internet: Becky.R.Vasvary@NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301-413-1200, ext. 139

   Fax: 301-413-0022

   NOAA Corps

   Greg Bass

   Banyan: GregB@NC23@NOAA

   Internet: Gregory.Bass@noaa.gov

   Phone: 301-713-3425, ext. 179

    Systems Acquisitions Office

   Carolyn Alderman

   Internet: CarolynA@SAO.NOAA.GOV

   Alternate: Janet Unkle

   Internet: JanetU@SAO.NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301-713-0111, ext. 113

    NOAA Coastal Oceans Program

   Timothy Morris

   Internet: Timothy.Morris@noaa.gov

   Phone: (301) 713-3338, ext. 120

    Integrated Programs Office

   Scott Wilson

   Internet: swilson@ipo.noaa.gov

   Phone: (301) 427-2080, ext 120

    Office of Global Programs

   Warren Keenan

   Internet: Keenan@ogp.noaa.gov

   Phone: (301) 427-2089, ext. 60

      National Ocean Service

   Richard Kissel

   Banyan: Richard L. Kissel@ADP@N

   RKissel@SPUR.NOS.NOAA.GOV

   Phone: (301) 713-305-, ext. 123

    National Weather Service

   Harry Bly

   CCMail: Harry Bly@MHub@NWS

   Internet: Harry.Bly@NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301-713-0262, ext. 134

    National Marine Fisheries Service

   K. Scott Brown

   CCM: Kevin S Brown@MHub@NMFS

   Internet: Kevin.S.Brown@NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301- 713-2372

    National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service

   Peter Topoly

   Internet: PeterTopoly@NESDIS.NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301-763-8597

   Alternate: Neil Huyck

   NeilHuyck@NESDIS.NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301- 457-5205

    Office of Oceanic and

   Atmospheric Research

   Dr. John A. Calder

   Phone: 301-713-2474 x114

   Alternate: Paul Quicker

   Email: Paul Quicker@ERL@R

   Internet: Paul.Quicker@NOAA.GOV

   Phone: 301-713-2458, ext. 185

               [Image3.gif]

                    NOAA=s Security Web Page

                        http://www.rdc.gov/~security
