http://www.airweb.faa.gov/airplane_security/announce.htm

                                    FAA |
   Application for funding | 90 day reporting requirements | FAQ|SFAR

                     ENHANCED AIRPLANE SECURITY PROGRAM

        FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

   AUTHORIZATION: The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 as amended, 49 U.S.C.
   106(l) and 106(m), and 49 U.S.C. 40104.

   OBJECTIVES:

   At present, there are approximately 7,000 airplanes with operating
   certificates issued under part 119 that conduct operations under part
   121 as passenger carrying operations in common carriage. The objective
   of the Enhanced Airplane Security Program is to enhance safety by
   improving flight deck security on airplanes meeting criteria as
   recommended by the Secretary of Transportation’s Rapid Response Team on
   Aircraft Security. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is
   providing direct funding to assist air carriers in the implementation
   of (1) design changes that improve the flightcrew compartment door
   installation to restrict the unwanted entry of persons; (2) designs
   that allow for the continuous transmission of the transponder signal in
   emergencies; (3) designs that provide for the installation of video
   cameras or implementation of other methods to enable the flightdeck
   crew to be aware of emergency situations that might be occurring in the
   cabin; and (4) training programs for crew members associated with the
   modifications for the enhanced security and hijack protection. In
   addition, the FAA will receive data from the air carriers to assist in
   the tracking of the implementation of modifications. Regulatory relief
   will be provided in SFAR No. 92
   .

   USES AND RESTRICTIONS
   :

   Funds are specifically authorized to cover: (1) the implementation of
   design changes that improve the flightcrew compartment door
   installation to restrict the unwanted entry of persons; (2) the
   implementation of designs that allow for the continuous transmission of
   the transponder signal in emergencies; (3) the installation of video
   cameras or other methods to enable the flightdeck crew to be aware of
   emergency situations that might be occurring in the cabin; and (4) the
   development of training programs for crew members associated with the
   modifications for the enhanced security and hijack protection.

   Specific funds will be identified to support pilot programs: to install
   video and other technology for use in the cabin; to implement emergency
   alerting systems that may be installed in the aircraft or carried by
   cabin crew members; and to enhance transponder performance.

   ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:

   Applicant Eligibility
   : Any entity that holds an air carrier or operating certificate issued
   under part 119 and that conducts operations under part 121 as passenger
   carrying operations in common carriage is eligible.

   Documentation
   : To be considered for funding, documentation should be provided which
   will permit the FAA to determine that the proposed aircraft
   modification(s) improves the flightcrew compartment door installation
   to restrict the unwanted entry of persons; and/or enhances the
   continuous transmission of the transponder signal in emergencies;
   and/or enhances the flightcrew’s ability to be aware of emergency
   situations that might be occurring in the cabin. In addition and as
   applicable, documentation should be provided about training programs
   associated with the modifications for the enhanced security and hijack
   protection.

   Documentation for the pilot programs must include the technology that
   will be used, the number of aircraft the applicant for funds intends to
   use in the pilot program and the objectives that are to be measured to
   evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot project.

   APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS:

   Application/Award Procedures
   : Applications for funding will be accepted immediately. The review of
   all formal applications will be addressed by the Rapid Response Design
   Approval Team (RRDAT), Office of the Director, Aircraft Certification
   Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Ave, SW,
   Washington D.C. 20591.

   Approval of the applications for funding will be issued by a Board
   created for this purpose and co-chaired by the Associate Administrator
   for Research and Development and the Deputy Associate Administrator for
   Regulation and Certification. Members on the Board will include the
   Flight Standards Service, the Aircraft Certification Service, the
   Office of Civil Aviation Security Operations, the Office of
   Acquisitions and the Office of the Chief Counsel.

   Award of the funding will be made through a special Agreement between
   the air carrier and the FAA’s Office of Acquisitions, Contracts
   Division, ASU-300.

   Deadline
   : Applications for funding must be received by the RRDAT not later than
   September 1, 2002.

   POST ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:

   Reports
   : All participants will be required to report progress made against a
   predetermined set of milestones on a periodic basis. Reports will be
   required to include information on the completion of modifications by
   airplane type, the return to service of modified airplanes, and the
   actual cost of the work on a per aircraft basis including labor and
   material

   Audits
   : The operating air carriers are subject to financial audit under the
   terms and conditions of this program. A financial audit may be required
   at the completion of all airplane modifications to ensure that the
   funds provided have been applied efficiently, economically, and
   effectively and that no overcharges have been made.

   Records
   : Accounting and financial records reflecting all project costs, books,
   supporting documents, and records pertinent to this program and
   sufficient for financial audit shall be retained for three (3) years.
   Participants will be required to keep records that will validate any
   and all information reported to the FAA as discussed above and as
   outlined in the Agreement entered into as a result of an accepted
   application for funding. Records are to be made available for
   inspection by FAA, DOT IG and the General Accounting Office.

   FINANCIAL INFORMATION:

   Methodology for Distribution of Funds
   : Operators will be eligible for funds as indicated below. The
   allocation for each level includes funding to train flight and cabin
   crewmembers in the procedures associated the new technologies and door
   modifications.

   Pilot Programs: We have identified $20 million
   to support pilot programs: to install video and other technology for
   use in the cabin; to implement emergency alerting systems that may be
   installed in the aircraft or carried by cabin crew members; and to
   enhance transponder performance. Proposals for pilot programs should be
   submitted before October 16, 2001, and should include the number of
   aircraft in which the technology will be demonstrated and the
   objectives that are to be measured to evaluate the effectiveness of the
   pilot project.

   Doors
   . The bulk of the funding will be provided for strengthening of the
   flight deck doors. This funding will be dependent on the level of
   modification. These modifications can range from simple door
   modifications to new door designs as follows:

   Level I
   – Simple door modifications, such as single deadbolts, strengthened
   locking mechanisms, and other single barrier devices to restrict
   unwanted entry into the cockpit, and temporarily compromise
   decompression requirements and emergency access to and from the flight
   deck. These should be installed within 90 days.


   Level II
   –Substantial modifications, such as crossbars and multiple
   strengthening features, to restrict unwanted entry into the cockpit,
   and temporarily compromise decompression requirements and emergency
   access to and from the flight deck. These should be installed within 90
   days.

   Level III
   - Protect door vents from intrusion and provide modifications to the
   door designs to restrict unwanted entry, and fully meet the
   decompression requirements. These should be designed within 6 months,
   with the installations taking up to another 12 months.

   Level IV
   – Install new doors, or modify existing doors that meet the
   requirements of rapid decompression, flight crew egress/rescue, and
   protection from intrusion caused by blunt force, ballistics,
   fragmentation, or other explosive effects. This is the final door
   design solution and is expected to be designed within 12 months, with
   the modifications taking up to another 18 months.

   Transponders
   . For the FAA-approval and implementation of designs that allow for the
   continuous transmission of the transponder in an emergency.

   Flightdeck Awareness
   . For the FAA-approval and implementation of methods that enable the
   flight crew to be aware of emergency situations in the cabin.

   Disbursement of Funds
   : Funds will be disbursed as follows: For the Pilot Program, 50% of the
   funds will be authorized for distribution when the application is
   accepted by the Board and the remaining 50% on completion of the Pilot
   Program. For other modifications, 30% will be authorized for
   distribution when the design is authorized for funding, 40% after
   completion of the first airplane installation, and 30% after the
   modifications are installed in the last airplane.

   Range and Average of Financial Assistance
   : The range of the financial assistance will be dependent upon the
   nature and scope of the proposed modification(s). Financial assistance
   for the pilot programs will be 100% of the amount authorized by the
   Board for approved programs.

   Recoupment of Funds
   : A condition on the distribution of funds under this program is that,
   should the air carrier choose not to install any improvements made or
   intended to be made under this program, the FAA shall have the right to
   require an appropriately prorated amount of the funding to be returned,
   unless the improvements are permanently replaced by other approved
   equivalent or better provisions.


   CRITERIA FOR APPROVING APPLICATIONS FOR FUNDING:

   All applications for the pilot program shall be reviewed and
   considered. In order to be considered for funding, the proposal should
   describe the technology to be used, the aircraft in which the
   technology will be installed and the objectives of the pilot program.

   All Applications for funding submitted shall be reviewed and
   considered. In order to be considered for funding, applications should
   describe the modification and its intended outcome. The amount of
   funding made available to any and all participants will be a function
   of those factors addressed under the paragraph entitled "Methodology
   For Distribution of Funds".

   As a condition of funding the air carrier will agree that any
   intellectual property created or developed in performance of the
   resultant Agreement, whether in the form of patentable subject matter,
   copyright trade secret information or ‘know-how’ or other intellectual
   property right shall permit the free disclosure and use, in whole or
   inpart, of the property or technology to all other part 121 carriers
   who have entered into a like agreement and will participate under this
   program. The information or property shall be identified as proprietary
   by the air carrier and shall remain the property of the air carrier and
   also be identified and controlled as sensitive security information
   that is controlled under the provisions of 14 CFR part 191.

   INFORMATION CONTACTS:

   Regional or Local Office: Local Principal Maintenance Inspector (PMI).

   Headquarters Office: Rapid Response Design Approval Team, Office of the
   Director, Aircraft Certification Service, Federal Aviation
   Administration, 800 Independence Ave., SW, Washington D.C. 20591.

   RRDAT Point of Contact
   : Kim Smith, Aircraft Certification Service, AIR-120, Federal Aviation
   Administration, 800 Independence Ave., SW, Washington D.C. 20591.

   Phone: 202-267-7242.

   Email: mailto:9-awa-avr-design@faa.gov

   Web Site Address: http://faa.gov/

   FAA Agreements Officer
   : Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Acquisitions, Contracts
   Division, ASU-360, Attn: Mark C. Brady, Room 406, 800 Independence
   Ave., SW, Washington, D.C. 20591.

   Phone: 202-493-4824.

   Email: mailto:9-awa-avr-funding@faa.gov
