http://dtp.nci.nih.gov/branches/prb/prb_operations.html

   [Image - DTP Logo]

   Pharmaceutical Resources Branch
   [Image - Molecules]

                                                          Printer Friendly

   Home
   What's New
   Discovery
   Development
   Pathways
   Grants
   Site Search
   Data Search
   [Image - NCI]

   PRB Operations

Synthetic Chemistry & GMP Bulk Production

   Production of bulk drug begins with an evaluation of the available
   synthetic route and re-synthesis of small batches. The identity and
   purity of these small batches establishes the expected purity criteria
   for subsequent scale-up processes. In some cases, the isolation of a
   natural product is performed, for use as the bulk drug substance or as
   a semi-synthetic intermediate. The process is scaled up to medium size
   batches and final purification methods are established with the goal to
   deliver a material suitable for IND-directed toxicology and possibly
   Phase I clinical trials; this usually means an overall purity of 97% or
   greater with major impurities at a level of less than 1%. Review of the
   purity standards and ultimate release of bulk drug are performed by the
   Quality Control Committee of PRB. These bulk drug materials are
   routinely prepared under GMP conditions and the synthetic procedures
   are optimized for any further scale-up. Additional quantities of bulk
   drug (in quantities up to kilogram amounts) are prepared as needed to
   support ongoing clinical studies.

Analytical Development

   Studies related to analytical development are initiated as potential
   clinical candidates are selected. The elucidation of the molecular
   structure, including determination of stereochemistry where applicable,
   is performed using a variety of instrumental techniques, e.g., NMR, MS,
   IR, UV, DSC, and optical rotation. Specific methods for quantitation,
   such as HPLC, CE or GLC, are developed for the assessment of potency
   and impurity profiles. These analytical methods also provide the basis
   of related assays used in drug product production, stability, and GLP
   studies. They are refined and validated as the drug candidates progress
   toward IND filing. All major batches of bulk drug are analyzed and the
   results are reviewed by the Quality Control Committee prior to release.
   Acceptance specifications for each active pharmaceutical ingredient
   (API) are established to provide assurance for the quality and
   consistency of the material for use in clinical product. Stability
   profiles of the APIs are also developed, in accordance with ICH and FDA
   Guidelines.

   The analytical profiles of NCI's active pharmaceutical ingredients,
   including physico-chemical data and validated methods, are compiled.
   This information is available in the NCI Investigational Drug: Chemical
   Information

Formulation Development

   Development of a suitable formulation is central to the mission of PRB.
   Since most of the antineoplastic agents are fairly potent and often
   accompanied by unpleasant side effects, the formulations are kept as
   simple as possible to minimize any vehicle related discomfort to the
   patients.

   Preformulation work begins as soon as sufficient quantity of bulk
   material becomes available. In the preformulation stage, every compound
   selected for clinical development undergoes basic physico-chemical
   characterization. This includes: determination of pH solubility
   profile, pH stability profile, light and oxygen sensitivity studies,
   pKa determination, solubility profile in various water miscible
   solvents, crystallinity, partition coefficient, and others.

   Once a potential formulation is identified, a small batch is produced
   by the formulation development contractor and it is placed on
   accelerated stability protocol. If the data indicate that the
   formulation is stable, then decision is made to proceed with
   manufacture of the clinical product.

Clinical Dosage Form Manufacturing

   All the information generated at the preformulation/formulation
   development stage is useful at this stage along with analytical reports
   and validation packages of the bulk drug. After producing one or more
   pilot batches to establish the manufacturing procedure, a master batch
   record is written. All subsequent batches are manufactured according to
   the master batch record and the product is subjected to QC testing
   before it is released for packaging and labeling. After the batch is
   labeled and packaged, the batch record and quality control information
   is reviewed and approved by the manufacturer's QC/QA departments. The
   batch is then shipped to the NCI clinical repository and is placed
   under quarantine until PRB Quality Control Committee releases it for
   clinical use. The batch is then put on active inventory and distributed
   for clinical use by the Pharmaceutical Management Branch of CTEP.
   Required number of dosage units are randomly selected and placed on
   shelf-life assessment program according to ICH/FDA guidelines.

   A Pharmaceutical Data Sheet containing information on composition, how
   supplied, storage and stability, and solution preparation (if
   applicable) is prepared for each productand included in the Clinical
   Brochure. These data sheets are also published in the NCI
   Investigational Drug: Pharmaceutical Data.
