http://www.tas.noaa.gov/about.html

                            NOAA's Teacher at Sea
        Bringing hands-on ocean research experience to the classroom
                            Link to opening page
                        Link to Stories and pictures
                            Link to How to Apply
                     Link to information about the ships

                      About the Teacher at Sea Program

   The enthusiasm for learning generated between teachers and students is
   the biggest payoff of NOAA's Teacher at Sea program, where teachers
   from elementary school through college go to sea aboard NOAA research
   and survey ships to work under the tutelage of scientists and crew.

   Now in its 11th year, the program has enabled more than 325 teachers to
   gain first-hand experience of science at sea. Teachers can enrich their
   classroom curricula with a depth of understanding made possible by
   living and working side-by-side, day and night, with those who
   contribute to the world's body of scientific knowledge.
   Teachers may select a cruise aboard one of NOAA's 13 participating
   ships. Fisheries research vessels perform biological and physical
   science studies in support of fisheries research. Oceanographic and
   coastal research vessels perform physical science studies in support of
   physical oceanography, atmospheric studies, and bathymetric mapping.
   Hydrographic survey vessels scan the coastal sea floor with side-scan
   sonar and sophisticated bottom sounding systems to locate submerged
   obstructions and navigational hazards for the creation or update of the
   nation's nautical charts.

Benefits for All

   The feedback from teachers who have participated in the program is
   overwhelmingly positive.

   According to Betty Moellenberg, an elementary school teacher in
   Colorado, "I cannot imagine any other experience that could equal the
   Teacher at Sea program for learning how marine scientists work and how
   people live aboard working ships. Living on the ocean while studying it
   carries an impact that will direct you to share with others exactly how
   and why these studies need to be done. Working with scientists daily
   and seeing their dedication influences your understanding in a way that
   will communicate itself to those you talk to about your experiences."

   The benefit to NOAA is substantial as well. Scientists gain motivated
   volunteers to help carry out their projects, and scientists and crew
   enjoy having someone on board who is enthusiastic and eager to learn
   about all aspects of the cruise. Perhaps most important, the program
   serves NOAA's mission by promoting among teachers and their students a
   greater awareness of the need to understand and protect the world's
   oceans and their resources.

   Best put by Betty Moellenberg, "At the least you will begin to
   understand why we need to know so much more in order to protect and
   safeguard this largest of our natural resources, and to understand the
   ways in which we can learn this. I went into this project with a lot of
   hesitation and fears, and came out with a deep feeling for the sea and
   a sense of commitment to share with my kids and other teachers-respect
   and awe, and the knowledge we must learn what we can in order to save
   both the sea and its inhabitants.

   Through the Teacher at Sea program, NOAA and students gain another
   important benefit. By talking about their experiences and sharing
   photos or video taken during a cruise, teachers can encourage their
   students to think about potential marine careers with NOAA or other
   science-based organizations.

Office of Marine and Aviation Operations

   The Teacher at Sea program is coordinated and administered by NOAA's
   Office of Marine and Aviation Operations, which operates, manages and
   maintains the NOAA fleet of ships and aircraft. OMAO is composed both
   of civilians and officers of the NOAA Commissioned Corps, the nation's
   seventh and smallest uniformed service.

   Contact Judy Sohl, Teacher at Sea program coordinator, by e-mail at
   Judith.Sohl@noaa.gov.

   Media inquiries should be directed to Jeanne Kouhestani, OMAO public
   affairs, at (301) 713-3431, ext. 220.

   CTD being lowered into the water
   CTD equipment collects information about the water's conductivity and
   temperature at different depths

   Scientist checks equipment
   Scientist checks the equipment

   Scientists prepare to deploy a buoy
   Scientists make a final check of the buoy before deployment

   Hydrographic launch
   Hydrographic launch is lowered to begin the day collecting data


                                    NOAA
                               NOAA Education
                                    OMAO
                           NOAA Privacy Statement
                            Contact the Webmaster
                                 Contact the
                             Program Coordinator

                                                             Last Updated:

   December 12, 2001
