http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERH/NH108215.HTML

   COMMERCE IMAGE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

                                                           October 1, 1982
                               OA/W512

   TO:                 All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:    Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance 82-15

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   Chapter H-10, Facilities Engineering Program (9 pages).

   2. Summary

   This chapter describes the National Weather Service's Facilities
   Engineering Program and the associated responsibilities of the
   Headquarters and Regional Engineering organizations.

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   None.


   Richard E. Hallgren
   Director, National Weather Service

   noaa logo 10TH ANNIVERSARY 1970-1980
                                                       National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration
                                                       A young agency with
   a historic
                                                       tradition of
   service to the Nation

     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date     Org. Code       NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
   Part Chap.
   10-1-82         OA/W51 2           Operations Manual
                         H         10

                       FACILITIES ENGINEERING PROGRAM

   Table of Contents

   1. Purpose

   2. Objective

           2.1 Definition

   3. Organization
           3.1    National Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)
           3.2    Regional Headquarters
                   3.2.1 Planning
                   3.2.2 Site Selection
                   3.2.3 Design
                   3.2.4 Construction
                   3.2.5 Documentation
                   3.2.6 Maintenance

   4. Reporting

   5. WSH Facilities Support Services

           5.1 Specific Equipment
           5.2 General Facilities and Standards
           5.3 Resources and Training

   6. Facilities Handbook

   7. Quality Assurance

           7.1 Evaluation of Field Progress
           7.2 Quality of Facilities Maintenance

   8. Application to Non-Owned Facilities

   9. Cross Reference

   1. Purpose. This chapter describes the organization, functions, and the
   objective of the facilities engineering program in the National Weather
   Service Headquarters (WSH) and in the regional headquarters (RH). The
   day-to-day working relationship between the two organizational levels
   primarily concerned with the facilities program is also outlined.

   2. Objective. The objective of the facilities engineering program is to
   support the overall mission of the National Weather Service (NWS) in
   the design and construction of facilities, the installation of
   equipment, and maintenance and enhancement of facilities and
   structures. These facilities must be design-coordinated with the
   equipment and other physical surroundings to ensure that the resulting
   environmental design provides for the optimum weather observing and
   forecasting functions. This program is accomplished by the coordinated
   efforts of the Weather Service Headquarters and regional headquarters
   within the disciplines and standards of several branches of
   engineering; including electrical, civil, structural, architectural,
   and mechanical.

   2.l Definition. In general, those items of the National Weather Service
   physical plant inventory which do not directly sense, telemeter, or
   record environmental data for transmission to other locations are
   called facilities. See WSOM Chapter H-13 for detailed definitions.

   3. Organization. The Engineering Division, WSH, includes a Facilities
   Engineering Branch (FEBH) that functions as a focal point for all
   facilities assignments. Responsibility for implementing the facilities
   programs in the field -- including planning, design, construction and
   maintenance of facilities --is assigned to Facilities Engineering
   Branch, regional headquarters (FEBR) under the general direction of the
   regional chief engineer or the Regional Director.

   3.l National Weather Service Headquarters (WSH). The Engineering
   Division, WSH, has basic responsibility for design, construction, and
   maintenance of NWS facilities. Overall responsibility for coordination
   of the facilities engineering program with equipment engineering
   design, installation, and maintenance rests with the Engineering
   Division. Functional responsibility for development and issuance of
   guidance materials, designs, and engineering specifications for
   facilities, such as housing, towers, specialized structures to protect
   sensitive electronic devices, office quarters, power and signal
   systems, heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems, roads, and
   related utilities, rests with the Facilities Engineering Branch. The
   FEBH also prescribes standards and procedures for facility maintenance,
   construction, safety, and fire protection.

   3.2 Regional Headquarters. Under the general direction of the Regional
   Director, the responsibility for managing the facilities programs in
   the region rests with the Chief, Engineering Division, regional
   headquarters. Assistance in managing these programs is provided by the
   Chief, Facilities Engineering Branch, regional headquarters. The
   regional facilities engineering functions are performed in several
   phases, i.e., planning, site selection, design, construction, and
   maintenance.

   3.2.1 Planning. The program planning phase is continuous and includes
   as a minimum:

       a.     Identification of facilities requirements in terms of
   operational programs and personnel needs,

       b.     Establishment of schedules to fit operational priorities,

       c.     Development of specific program packages including staffing
   and funding requirements, and

       d.     Scheduling of projects.

   3.2.2 Site Selection. The primary consideration in selecting a site for
   any NWS activity is the suitability of the site for its operational
   purpose. Area surveys, radio frequency interference (RFI) studies, and
   other data gathering processes are to be used to obtain information
   required for cost estimates and for accurate definition of local
   conditions affecting engineering feasibility and the operational and
   exposure requirements for a specific meteorological and/or hydrological
   operational program. Certain aspects of site selection relate directly
   to program planning, and all data required in this activity are carried
   forward into the project-oriented design phase. The site survey
   includes concern for encroachments and interference with existing or
   planned structures and activities. Sites for exposure of environmental
   sensors must satisfy the exposure requirements of the equipment and
   should provide a reasonable assurance that future encroachments would
   not require relocation within a period that is economically consistent
   with the cost of installations. Preliminary discussion and negotiation
   with owners for the land and office space required are often included
   in the tasks assigned to the site selection field parties. Site
   selection field parties include a representative from the Data
   Acquisition Division who coordinates special siting requirements with
   Engineering personnel concerning a site's suitability for equipment
   exposure. Final site selection shall be the responsibility of the
   Regional Director, except that the site surveys for upper air and radar
   installations, or any installation estimated to cost $25,000 or more,
   shall be submitted to WSH for review and approval before site
   acquisition procedures or construction are initiated.

   3.2.3 Design. The design phase includes the following:

       a.     Performing engineering surveys and other data gathering
   procedures required for accurate definition of field conditions
   specifically related to preparation of detailed plans, specifications,
   estimates, and construction procedures for a specific project.

       b.     Preparation of detailed engineering designs, construction
   plans specifications, and cost estimates using National Weather Service
   and other engineering standards.

       c.     Preparation of all other engineering specifications and
   documents, cost estimates, analyses, summaries, and reports required
   for Invitation for Bid and contract award or force account actions
   involving the design, construction, installation, and maintenance of
   the field plant. Cooperation with the Small Business Administration in
   the selection of and negotiation with 8A minority contractors.

       d.    Provision of engineering support services during the
   construction phase including, but not limited to, interpretations of
   plans and specifications, review and approval of shop drawings, and
   preparation of change order documents.

       e.     Negotiation and technical administration of professional
   service contracts (architect-engineer, land surveyor, geologist, etc.).
   The Engineering Division selects the professional service contractor
   and serves as the Government representative in all technical aspects of
   the contract. The contracting officer, however, has exclusive authority
   for the legal administration of the contract.

       f.    Review of proposed construction and alteration plans of the
   Federal Aviation Administration, airport authorities, and other
   agencies for impact on existing and future NWS instrumentation.

       g.     Preparation, storage, and issuance of standard drawings and
   specifications.

       h.    Periodic review of all facilities drawings to assure that
   originals in both Weather Service Headquarters and regional
   headquarters are updated to reflect as-built conditions.

   3.2.4 Construction. The construction phase incorporating all
   installation functions includes:

       a.    Execution of a program for the installation or relocation of
   instrumental equipment and other field facilities.

       b.    Execution of the construction, relocation, modification, and
   rehabilitation of quarters (includes on-site contract administration
   and inspection).

       c.     Accomplishment of equipment activation services required
   during and after the installation and up to the commissioning date.

   3.2.5 Documentation. The documentation phase provides that upon
   completion of construction or installation, all work should be
   documented in the form of:

       a.     Preparation of "as-built" drawings.

       b.    Entry of applicable data into the Real Property and Space
   Management System (RSMS) data base.

       c.     Dissemination of information on site location, travel
   routes, names of contacts, etc., to those who need to know.

   3.2.6 Maintenance. The facilities maintenance phase is closely related
   to all the preceding phases. Maintenance, like planning, is a
   continuous process; hence, data from the maintenance phase is a prime
   source of data for the planning activity. The maintenance -phase
   includes:

       a.     Identification and reporting of the physical condition of
   the National Weather Service field plant.

       b.     Preventive, corrective, and emergency maintenance of
   non-instrumental facilities.

       c.    Operation of a regional shop for construction and repair of
   specialized parts and equipment for facilities maintenance (optional).

   4. Reporting. In order for the facilities engineering program to
   harmonize with National Weather Service operational goals, the
   Engineering Division, WSH, utilizes a computerized reporting system to
   identify and show cost information for preventive maintenance, repairs,
   rehabilitation, and replacement requirements. The reporting system is
   prescribed in Engineering Handbook No. 4, "Equipment and Facilities
   Management Reporting." This mechanism provides reliable, up-to-date
   information and reports required for planning and other RH functions.

   5. WSH Facilities Support Services. In order to provide consistency and
   continuity to the facilities engineering program, the Weather Service
   Headquarters provides facilities support services in those areas of
   common concern to all regions. In general, these services fall into the
   following categories:

       a.    Equipment. The detailed information required for equipment
   installation activities.

       b.    General Facilities. The engineering guidance and standards
   backup for design, construction, and maintenance of facilities and
   structure.

       c.    Resources and Training. The guidance and standards on matters
   concerning the facilities engineering programs, such as staffing,
   training, and logistics.

       d.    Budget and Program Financing. The budgeting and provision of
   funds for major facilities projects and field implementation of
   equipment systems.

   5.1 Specific Equipment. The facilities personnel assigned to the
   engineering staff in the regions are in the forefront for the
   installation of all equipment assigned to the regions. They develop and
   execute schedules for site surveys; prepare plans, specifications, and
   cost estimates for the actual installation; and manage the work through
   completion, up to activation and commissioning. Thereafter, this group
   manages the maintenance of the facilities features of the equipment.
   The Engineering Division, WSH provides complete information and data
   required by regional Engineering personnel well in advance of the
   delivery of the equipment. Beginning with the decision to acquire
   equipment, the Engineering Division, WSH, initiates a project to obtain
   and compile all the data needed to accomplish field installation
   objectives. The FEBH has the responsibility for gathering, extracting,
   and compiling information on the equipment, its siting requirements,
   installation details, facilities maintenance requirements, and
   assembling the materials into a concise package for regional use.

   5.2 General Facilities and Standards. The Engineering Division, WSH
   normally issues a National Weather Service Headquarters standard for
   general facilities support items. This standard is a drawing or
   narrative or both. It is well understood that the regions may find it
   necessary to modify and deviate from such a standard; however, when it
   is practicable to adhere to such a standard, uniformity is achieved.
   When a significant variation from a standard is indicated, the problem
   and recommended solution should be referred to the FEBH for Weather
   Service Headquarters coordination and clearance. Standards may be
   developed by Weather Service Headquarters through original design;
   experimentation with models, prototypes, or mock-ups; sample
   installations; or by adopting standards established by the regions
   which have proved to be economically and technically practical. Prior
   to adoption, a proposed standard is issued to the regions and to the
   Overseas Operations Division for review and comment. Upon concurrence
   by the regions, the Engineering Division, WSH, issues the standard.

   5.3 Resources and Training. The FEBH actively monitors the total
   equipment and facilities programs to determine resource requirements
   (staffing and funds) for the equipment installation and subsequent
   facilities programs, including replacement or modernization actions.
   This requires continued participation in the facilities equipment and
   maintenance portions of budget requests, site survey reports, and
   construction plans and specifications. The FEBH guides the development
   of training courses especially suited to RH personnel engaged in
   facilities engineering functions and serves as the focal point in
   Weather Service Headquarters for facilities technician training needs.

   6. Facilities Handbook. The FEBH prepares, issues, and maintains
   Engineering Handbook No. 3, "Facilities," which provides appropriate
   facilities and installation guidelines, maintenance notes, and other
   instructions. The purpose of the Facilities Handbook is to provide
   general guidance and broad technical criteria for the performance of
   facilities planning design, construction, maintenance, and related
   tasks assigned to the Engineering Divisions of the National Weather
   Service regional headquarters. It is not intended for this handbook to
   include or replace individual specific installation procedures
   incorporated in equipment manuals. This handbook allows the National
   Weather Service Headquarters and the regional headquarters to refer to
   a common source for guidance in preferred facilities engineering
   practices.

   7. Quality Assurance. For any facilities program to be successful,
   techniques should be employed to allow for review and redirection as
   appropriate for improvement. Within the facilities engineering program,
   this goal is achieved by a continuing review and evaluation of the
   concepts, rules, and progress both in the region and the National
   Weather Service Headquarters. For details on the function and
   organization for the facilities maintenance program, see WSOM Chapter
   H-51.

   7.1 Evaluation of Field Progress. In order for the Engineering
   Division, WSH, to be kept aware of the progress of equipment
   installations and the value of the facilities engineering standards,
   the regions furnish copies of plans, specifications, and cost estimates
   to the Chief, Engineering Division, WSH, simultaneously with the
   release of bid documents to prospective bidders. The Engineering
   Division, WSH, does not approve or disapprove these documents but may
   furnish comments and recommendations to the originating headquarters
   during the bidding period so that changes, if required, are made by
   addendum prior to bid opening. The Engineering Division, WSH, furnishes
   Weather Service Headquarters personnel with advice and comments on the
   suitability of materials, reasonableness of the Government estimate,
   and other engineering support as needed.

   7.2 Quality of Facilities Maintenance. NWS facilities should be
   maintained to achieve a high degree of safety, utility, and appearance.
   The level of resources devoted to facilities maintenance should be in
   harmony with that expended for equipment maintenance. Adherence to this
   approach for facilities maintenance will serve three purposes:

       a.    Enable the orderly continuation of the supported operational
   program.

       b.    Ensure maximum safety to persons and property.

       c.    Extend the useful life of the operating facility and thereby
   reduce the overall program costs.

   8. Application to Non-Owned Facilities. In general, the National
   Weather Service facilities engineering program does not apply to
   facilities and structures owned by others. Exceptions to this general
   approach should be well documented in the lease, permit, or other use
   agreement formats, so that there will be no question about the
   propriety of applying NWS resources to the property of others.

   9. Cross Reference. WSOM Chapter H-11, contains OR&F, Facilities
   Planning and Programming guidance; Chapter H-13 contains agencywide
   Facilities Design policies; and Chapter H-51 explains the function and
   organization of the Facilities Maintenance Program. Engineering
   Handbook No. 3, "Facilities, provides guidance on planning, site
   selection and construction. In addition, most equipment manuals contain
   complete siting rules for the specific equipment.

   WSOM Issuance
   82-15 10-1-82
