http://www.nefsc.nmfs.gov/nefsc/habitat/efh/

                Essential Fish Habitat Source Documents:
                Life History and Habitat Characteristics


   The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act
   (MSFCMA), which was reauthorized and amended by the Sustainable
   Fisheries Act (1996), requires the eight regional fishery management
   councils to describe and identify essential fish habitat (EFH) in
   their respective regions, to specify actions to conserve and enhance
   that EFH, and to minimize the adverse effects of fishing on EFH.
   Congress defined EFH as "those waters and substrate necessary to
   fish for spawning, breeding, feeding or growth to maturity." The
   MSFCMA requires NMFS to assist the regional fishery management
   councils in the implementation of EFH in their respective fishery
   management plans. For complete information and background on EFH,
   see the NMFS Office of Habitat Conservation's web site.

   NMFS has taken a broad view of habitat as the area used by fish
   throughout their life cycle. Fish use habitat for spawning, feeding,
     nursery, migration, and shelter, but most habitats provide only a
     subset of these functions. Fish may change habitats with changes in
     life history stage, seasonal and geographic distributions,
     abundance, and interactions with other species. The type of habitat,
     as well as its attributes and functions, are important for
     sustaining the production of managed species.

     The Northeast Fisheries Science Center compiled the available
     information on the distribution, abundance, and habitat requirements
     for each of the species managed by the New England and Mid-Atlantic
     Fishery Management Councils. That information is presented in this
     series of 31 EFH species reports (plus one consolidated methods
     report). The EFH species reports comprise a survey of the important
     literature as well as original analyses of fishery-independent data
     sets from NMFS and several coastal states. The species reports are
     also the source for the current EFH designations by the New England
     and Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Councils, and have
     understandably begun to be referred to as the "EFH source
     documents."

     NMFS provided guidance to the regional fishery management councils
     for identifying and describing EFH of their managed species.
     Consistent with this guidance, the species reports present
     information on current and historic stock sizes, geographic range,
     and the period and location of major life history stages. The
     habitats of managed species are described by the physical, chemical,
     and biological components of the ecosystem where the species occur.
     Information on the habitat requirements is provided for each life
     history stage, and it includes, where available, habitat and
     environmental variables that control or limit distribution,
     abundance, growth, reproduction, mortality, and productivity.

     Identifying and describing EFH are the first steps in the process of
     protecting, conserving, and enhancing essential habitats of the
     managed species. Ultimately, NMFS, the regional fishery management
     councils, fishing participants, Federal and state agencies, and
     other organizations will have to cooperate to achieve the habitat
     goals established by the MSFCMA.

     A historical note: the EFH species reports effectively recommence a
     series of reports published by the NMFS Sandy Hook (New Jersey)
     Laboratory (now formally known as the James J. Howard Marine
     Sciences Laboratory) from 1977 to 1982. These reports, which were
     formally labeled as Sandy Hook Laboratory Technical Series Reports,
     but informally known as "Sandy Hook Bluebooks," summarized
     biological and fisheries data for 18 economically important species.
     The fact that the bluebooks continue to be used two decades after
     their publication persuaded us to make their successors - the 31 EFH
     source documents - available to the public through publication in
     the NOAA Technical Memorandum NMFS-NE series.

   The following reports are in Adobe Acrobat .pdf format. acrobat
     reader



     NMFS-NE-122 Fishery Independent Surveys, Data Sources, and Methods


     New England Fishery Management Council
     NMFS-NE-123 American Plaice, Hippoglossoides platessoides
     NMFS-NE-124 Atlantic Cod, Gadus morhua
     NMFS-NE-125 Atlantic Halibut, Hippoglossus hippoglossus
     NMFS-NE-126 Atlantic Herring, Clupea harengus
     NMFS-NE-127 Goosefish, Lophius americanus
     NMFS-NE-128 Haddock, Melanogrammus aeglefinus
     NMFS-NE-129 Ocean Pout, Macrozoarces americanus
     NMFS-NE-130 Offshore Hake, Merluccius albidus
     NMFS-NE-131 Pollock, Pollachius virens
     NMFS-NE-132 Redfish, Sebastes spp.
     NMFS-NE-133 Red Hake, Urophycis chuss
     NMFS-NE-134 Sea Scallop, Placopecten magellanicus
     NMFS-NE-135 Silver Hake, Merluccius bilinearis
     NMFS-NE-136 White Hake, Urophycis tenuis
     NMFS-NE-137 Windowpane, Scophthalmus aquosus
     NMFS-NE-138 Winter Flounder, Pseudopleuronectes americanus
     NMFS-NE-139 Witch Flounder, Glyptocephalus cynoglossus
     NMFS-NE-140 Yellowtail Flounder, Limanda ferruginea
     NMFS-NE-163
                 Red Deepsea Crab, Chaceon quinquedens


     Middle Atlantic Fishery Management Council
     NMFS-NE-141 Atlantic Mackerel, Scomber scombrus
     NMFS-NE-142 Atlantic Surfclam, Spisula solidissima
     NMFS-NE-143 Black Sea Bass, Centropristis striata
     NMFS-NE-144 Bluefish, Pomatomus saltatrix
     NMFS-NE-145 Butterfish, Peprilus triacanthus
     NMFS-NE-146 Longfin Inshore Squid, Loligo pealeii
     NMFS-NE-147 Northern Shortfin Squid, Illex illecebrosus
     NMFS-NE-148 Ocean Quahog, Arctica islandica
     NMFS-NE-149 Scup, Stenotomus chrysops
     NMFS-NE-150 Spiny Dogfish, Squalus acanthias
     NMFS-NE-151 Summer Flounder, Paralichthys dentatus
     NMFS-NE-152 Tilefish, Lopholatilus chamaeleonticeps

   horizontal rule

   To NEFSC Home Page
