http://gpshome.ssc.nasa.gov/gpsnetworks.asp

   GPS Application Exchange - page banner
               Wednesday, January 30, 2002

   Skip navigation links


   GPS Exchange

   Submit an Application
   About GPS
   GPS Augmentation & Other Networks
   About this site
   What's New

   GPS Exchange Internal
   Please report any problems or comments about this site to
   gledet@ssc.nasa.gov

   Responsible NASA Official: Nathan Sovik
   Curator: Gerard Ledet

   GPS Augmentation & Other Networks
   The United States is modernizing GPS through a program that will
   improve its civilian service in the next decade and beyond. For many
   critical safety-of-life applications, GPS service alone may not meet
   the requirements of
     * Integrity - the ability of a system to provide timely warnings to
       users when the system should not be used for navigation or other
       purposes.
     * Accuracy - the difference between a GPS-measured position at any
       given time and the actual or true position.
     * Availability - the ability of a system to be used for navigation
       when and where ever it is needed by the users.

   A number of agencies and private firms are implementing augmentation
   systems that will improve the services available to civilian GPS users.
   These augmentations cover a wide range of geographical areas, up to
   continental distances.
   Augmentations of GPS to meet user requirements are most commonly
   accomplished using a technique known as "differential GPS" or DGPS. A
   DGPS reference station is used to continuously monitor GPS signals in a
   given area. Since the position of the reference station has been
   precisely surveyed, any errors in the satellite signals themselves can
   be calculated and corrections broadcast to users in the area. The
   user's DGPS receiver applies the correction message to improve the
   accuracy of its own position. The DGPS broadcast may also include
   integrity warnings for any satellite signals that should not be used.
   Additionally, the DGPS service can broadcast a GPS-like signal to
   improve the accuracy and availability of GPS services.
   Another form of GPS augmentation uses a transmitter on the ground to
   transmit GPS-like signals. These transmitters act like pseudo-GPS
   satellite or "pseudolites." In situations where signals from GPS
   satellites are blocked or obscured, such as in urban canyons or deep
   valleys, pseudolites can provide an additional source of GPS signals to
   improve the availability of GPS service. Pseudolites may be placed in
   fixed or mobile locations or mobile and transmit on frequencies close
   to or far from GPS itself depending on local conditions.
   Aviation augmentation systems system will support all phases of flight
   and enable improvements to the safety and efficiency of global air
   transportation. Maritime and rail transportation will also see
   improvements in safety and efficiency through the use of GPS
   augmentation systems. State and local governments are using GPS
   augmentations in such diverse areas as inventory management,
   road-condition mapping, land use management, geographic information
   systems, and traffic databases. Of particular importance are GPS uses
   by emergency response services such as police, fire, and rescue units.
    Last revised: 1/8/02
