http://www.usmint.gov/about_the_mint/index.cfm?action=mint_facilities



      The United States Mint What's New FAQs Search Mint Tours
      www.usmint.gov                         Serving America Since 1792

                               About The Mint
                              Director's Office
                                   Mission
                           Strategic Business Plan
                                Annual Report
                             History of The Mint
                               Mint Facilities
                               Coin Production
                             Coin Specifications
                             Collector's Corner
                                  Fun Facts
                                Screensavers
                                 Mint Police
                               Product Catalog
                                Mint Programs
                               About The Mint
                                  Pressroom
                                Join Our Team
                               Privacy Policy
                               Take Our Survey
                            h.i.p. pocket change

                            Accessibility Cookies


                               Mint Facilities


      Mint Facilities

   Philadelphia
   Denver
   San Francisco
   West Point

                Mint Facilities Mint Facilities

      When the United States government began minting coins in 1792, the
      original Mint facility in Philadelphia was hard-pressed to produce
      enough currency for our small country.

      As the country grew and the demand for coins increased, it became
      necessary to expand Mint facilities. This expansion was further fueled
      by the discovery of gold, first in the Southeast and later in the West,
      and by the need for hard currency which caused people to mint their own
      gold coins. In the mid-nineteenth century, additional mints were opened
      in Charlotte, NC; Dahlonega, GA; New Orleans, LA; and San Francisco,
      CA. In 1870, the Carson City, NV Mint opened, and in 1904 the Denver,
      CO Assay Office became a Mint facility. Today, in order to keep our
      economy flowing smoothly, the U.S. Mint maintains facilities in
      Philadelphia, Denver, San Francisco, and West Point, and a bullion
      depository in Fort Knox, KY.

      The number of coins minted today is astounding. Denver and Philadelphia
      alone produce 65 to 80 million coins a day. The stories behind each of
      the Mint facilities are fascinating, too. To learn more, click a Mint
      facility listed at the top of this page.


  Terms of Use   ||   FOIA   ||   Site Map   ||   Contact Us
  Portions © 1998-2001.  The U.S. Mint.  All Rights Reserved.

                                                                                                                          Aug 6, 2001
                                                                                                                              [stwb2]

                     web server   stweb2
                    server time   Jan 30, 2002 @ 12:32:04
                   adjusted now   Jan 30, 2002 @ 12:32:04
