http://matheson.house.gov/issues2.cfm?id=956

   [LINK]-matheson Web Site Top Banner- Click here to skip to page content

   News Let's Talk Services Answers District Kid's Zone
   background image

    The Photo Gallery | Issues | Events in Washington | Biography | Press
                           Releases | Site Index |



     Matheson Urges Stimulus Package That Helps, Not Hurts the Economy


     Washington, D.C.Rep. Jim Matheson today called for a bipartisan
     effort in January to produce a targeted, temporary stimulus proposal
     that  helps increase employment and investment, adequately assists
     displaced workers and doesnt drown the federal government in
     long-term red ink.


     Matheson opposed the stimulus package voted on by the House early
     this morning, saying it would harm the governments ability to win
     the war on terrorism, take care of homeland defense, and it would
     likely prolong the federal deficits that are now projected to last
     at least the next four years.


     With increased unemployment and working families feeling the pain of
     the slowing economy, we need to give the economy a jolt, said
     Matheson.  Unfortunately, the bill we voted on today fails to meet
     the criteria for an appropriate stimulushaving a rapid and temporary
     impact, and being paid for in order to prevent future deficits which
     will drive up long term interest rates.


     Matheson said the economic downturn and the events of Sept. 11 have
     wiped out projected budget surpluses, forcing the government to take
     money from Social Security and Medicare trust funds to fund the war
     on terrorism and provide assistance to the victims of the terrorist
     attacks.


     We should take the necessary time to respond appropriately to this
     new set of circumstances, said Matheson. Spending money in ways that
     will not stimulate the economy and would instead crowd out other
     pressing public priorities and increase the national debt is bad
     public policy






                       Send To Printer Email to Friend

     Official Seal

                          This is an official Web site of the
                         United States House of Representatives.

                Congressman Jim Matheson, U.S. House of Representatives

         410 Cannon HOB

      Washington, DC 20515

     Phone - (202) 225-3011

                           125 State Street, Rm.2311

                           Salt Lake City, UT 84138

                            Phone - (801) 524-4394

   News |
   Let's Talk  |  Services  |  Answers  |  District |  Kid's Zone
   | Privacy Policy | Site Index  | Search
