http://smith.senate.gov/Internships.html

   [banner2.gif]

   Biography
   Committees
   Floor Statements
   Smith In The News
   Smith's Columns & Editorials
   Senate Offices
   Constituent Services
   Internships
   Legislative Branch

   New Hampshire
   Smith's Photo Gallery
   Staff List
   2002 Internship Information Senator Bob Smith (R-NH) 307 Dirksen Senate
   Office Building

   1. HOURS:

   The number of hours in the office are negotiable with each individual
   internship program. Spring internships begin in January and extend into
   April. The student's credit requirements may also be taken into
   account.

   2. DUTIES:

   In our Washington, D.C. office each intern will assist the Senator and
   his staff with administrative duties, legislative correspondence,
   research, and press. In New Hampshire, interns assist with constituent
   casework, administrative duties, research and press. Interns will have
   an opportunity to observe the legislative process first hand and work
   as part of a dynamic and professional team.

   3. REQUIREMENTS:

   We are looking for students who are in college undergraduate programs,
   specifically with majors in Political Science, International Relations,
   Economics, Banking and Finance, English and Journalism and Pre-Law. We
   would prefer a student from New Hampshire, but will accept applications
   from any student.

   4. THE SENATOR:

   Senator Bob Smith is the Ranking Member of the Environment and Public
   Works Committee and a conservative Republican from New Hampshire. He is
   also a member of the Armed Services Committee. Please note the attached
   biography for more information.

   5. COURSE CREDIT:

   We encourage students to seek course credit for their internship and
   are happy to work with any college program in helping the student
   fulfill the requirements to receive credit. Please note that the
   internships offered by Senator Smith are unpaid.

   6. APPLICATION:

   Click here to download a copy of our application. Print out the
   application and mail it to our office in Washington, DC. Email
   applications will not be accepted.

   IF YOU HAVE A QUESTION PLEASE CONTACT: Ryan Hambleton at (202)224-2841.

                    [Return to Senator Smith's Homepage]
