http://www.valleymetro.maricopa.gov/privacy.html


   Valley Metro home page

   Home Page | Transit Info | System Map | Bus Routes | Rider Alerts |
   Site Map | Contact Us

                                                         [roundedleft.gif]

     V A L L E Y    M E T R O


   Valley Metro provides public transit service for the greater Phoenix,
   Arizona metropolitan area.





   VALLEY METRO PRIVACY POLICY

   Personally Volunteered Information

   We only collect personal information from our visitors on a voluntary
   basis. Personal information may include name, address, e-mail, etc. The
   personal information you volunteer to us is used to fulfill your
   request for more information or to respond to your question or comment.
   These responses come directly from us; no third parties have access to
   your personal information collected by www.ValleyMetro.org. If, at any
   time, your personal information is to be used in any fashion other than
   the above mentioned, this intent will be expressly stated.

   Other Personal Information

   Our web server collects the domain names (not the e-mail addresses) of
   visitors to our website. This information is collected to measure basic
   usage data such as the number of visits, average time spent on the
   site, pages reviewed, etc. which is used by ValleyMetro.org to improve
   the content and performance of our website.

   Cookies

   Cookies are not used anywhere on ValleyMetro.org. You are always able
   to alter any personal information that you have already submitted.
   Please see contact information below.

   Children

   ValleyMetro.org has no intention of collecting any personal information
   from individuals under eighteen years of age. Where appropriate,
   ValleyMetro.org will specifically instruct children not to submit such
   information on our website. If a child has provided us with
   information, a parent or guardian of that child should contact us if
   they would like this information deleted from our records. We will use
   reasonable efforts to delete the child's information from our existing
   files.

   Other

   The information you provide to us is not sold to third party data
   compilation services. If you do not want to provide this information,
   you are given the opportunity to decline.

   Security

   ValleyMetro.org takes reasonable measures to keep all information about
   our online visitors secure against unauthorized access and periodically
   reviews the security measures of our site.

   Contact Information

   For questions and/or comments regarding ValleyMetro.org, please e-mail
   us at: webmaster@ValleyMetro.org or contact us at Valley Metro, 302 N.
   First Ave., Suite 640, Phoenix, AZ 85003, telephone 602-261-8073.


   ^ Back to top

                                        webmaster@valleymetro.org

                                                   © 2002 Valley Metro

      VALLEY METRO - 302 NORTH FIRST AVENUE - SUITE 700 - PHOENIX, ARIZONA
                                                                     85003

   [roundedrite.gif] [trans.gif]
