http://reed.senate.gov/releases/appropriations.htm

                  Press Release
   Dividing Line

   Biography
   Constituent Services
   En Espanol
   News
   Legislative Information
   Press Area
   Speeches and Articles
   Rhode Island
   Visit Washington
   For Students

                                Back one page

                      Seal of the state of Rhode Island
                                    Home

   Rhode Island Appropriation Projects

   Congress has finished approving the 13 appropriations bill that fund
   the federal government for fiscal year 2002. The bills contain funding
   for several Rhode Island projects. Click on the links below to learn
   more about the appropriations process.

   Reed appointed to Senate Appropriations Committee.

   What is the status of the 13 fiscal year 2002 appropriations bills?

   What is the federal budget and how is it created?

   Authorizations and Appropriations: What is the difference?

   Following are some of the Rhode Island projects requested by Senator
   Reed and approved by Congress.

   Agriculture

University of Rhode Island's Environmental Biotechnology Initiative: $400,000

   The Environmental Biotechnology Initiative at the University of Rhode
   Island is a multi-disciplinary plan to enhance teaching, research and
   outreach through the development of state of the art facilities and
   programs in the study and manipulation of plant, animal and microbial
   genetic material.

   This federal appropriation will be used for planning and to renovate
   space in Morrill Hall, which will house some of the programs
   facilities.

Town of Jamestown Water Supply: $250,000

   The funding will support the construction of a water pipeline from the
   South Reservoir to a wetland near the North Reservoir. The water will
   then flow through the wetlands into North Reservoir, the town's main
   drinking water source, increasing the flow of water into the reservoir
   to help maintain its capacity while rejuvenating the wetland. The
   wetland was damaged during the 1999 drought.

   Commerce, Justice, State and Judiciary

Rocky Point Land Acquisition: $350,000

   The funding would be used th acquire least 25 acres of the former Rocky
   Point Amusement Park to ensure continued public access to the
   shoreline.

Rhode Island's Coastal Resources Management Council (CRMC) Aquaculture: $1.5
million

   The funding will be used by CRMC to develop an aquaculture management
   plan for Rhode Island. The plan would enable the state to encourage
   greater coastal economic development such as "farming" shellfish or
   fin-fish in coastal waters or ponds across the state.

Cranston Police Department: $200,000

   The funding will allow the Cranston Police Department to purchase at
   least three new Ford Crown Victoria cruisers fitted with a standard
   police package and to acquire additional crime fighting equipment.

Save the Bay's Explore the Bay Education Center: $2 million

   The $2 million will help to support construction of a 15,000
   square-foot waterfront education center near downtown Providence. The
   facility will expand Save the Bay's mission of nurturing the public's
   commitment to coastal resources by providing direct access to
   Narragansett Bay among students of all ages and all incomes.

Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development

Life Sciences Building at Brown: $3 million

   The funds will be used in the construction of a new Life Sciences
   Building at Brown which is expected to expand academic research
   opportunities and grow its national extramural life sciences capacity
   for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). When
   complete, the new 186,000 square foot facility will house 60 labs,
   representing a 50 percent increase in overall biomedical research
   space.

Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Narragansett Bay Commission: $3.25 million

   To reduce degradation of the Bay and to comply with the federal Clean
   Water Act, the Narragansett Bay Commission is preparing to begin
   construction this year of facilities to control the discharge of
   combined sanitary and storm water sewage during major storm events.
   Construction of the CSO project is estimated to cost $550 million.

Jewish War Veterans Memorial Wall of Honor: $50,000

   The funding will be used to help construct of the Jewish War Veterans
   Memorial Wall of Honor in the veterans section of Lincoln Park Cemetery
   in Warwick.

Johnston Senior Center: $500,000

   For the past twenty years, the Johnston Senior Center has been housed
   in a converted garage. Recently named the "worst senior center in the
   State" by the Department of Elderly Affairs, the center has not only
   outgrown its capacity but its physical condition is so poor that
   further repairs are not an option.

South Providence Development Corporation's (SPDC) Urban Environmental
Business Cluster: $100,000

   The funding will be used for pre-development planning and investment
   capital for two new job creation ventures in the South Providence area.
   The first is a computer recycling operation and the second is a
   building materials re-use center. Both programs will build upon a prior
   successful effort recycling initiative implemented in the area by SPDC
   which has already created 18 permanent full-time jobs.

Improvement of Warren Sewer System: $500,000

   The Town of Warren's Sewer Department recently completed an
   infiltration/inflow study in a central section of Warren which revealed
   cracked sewer lines that are allowing storm water to infiltrate into
   the sewer system and allowing sewage to seep out of the system and
   undermine existing lines. The study proposes correction by replacing
   sewers in the area at an estimated cost of $1.8 million.

Travelers Aid of Rhode Island: $1 Million

   Travelers Aid of Rhode Island, which provides shelter and services to
   homeless individuals, will receive $1 million which will enable it to
   relocate its offices from Providence's rapidly developing commercial
   and entertainment district to the Greater Providence YMCA Building on
   Broad Street.

   The move will allow the organization to expand its services, including
   its health and dental areas, build a client cafeteria to also serve as
   a food service training program, create separate waiting areas for
   adults, teens and families, and build a computer lab and library for
   its academic and employment programs.

   In addition, Travelers Aid will assume operation of the 178-unit
   residential tower currently being run by the YMCA. The building
   requires renovations to make it accessible to people with disabilities.
   The project will also include construction of 16 new units of
   affordable housing on the first and second floors of the YMCA building
   to provide permanent supportive housing for disabled adults.

Roger Williams Park Botanical Center: $450,000

   The $450,000 will go to support the development of a botanical center
   at Roger Williams Park. The 30,000 square foot Roger Williams Park
   Botanical Center will feature the first public conservatory in
   Southeastern New England.

   While Roger Williams Park attracts more than 3.5 million visitors
   annually, the Botanical Center, which will be open year-round, would
   help to serve as an off-season tourist attraction, especially during
   the winter months when attendance at the Roger Williams Park Zoo
   declines.

   Phase one of the Botanical Center – including the conservatory, visitor
   orientation areas and an educational center with a library – is
   scheduled to be completed in the fall of 2003.

Providence Performing Arts Center: $450,000

   The non-profit Providence Performing Arts Center, which is housed in an
   historic 1928 Loew's theater and is listed on the National Register of
   Historic Places, will use the $450,000 to continue projects to upgrade
   its mechanical systems and complete renovations to the theater.

Herreshoff Marine Museum/America's Cup Museum: $350,000

   This museum, located in Bristol, is dedicated to the collection,
   exhibition and interpretation of the Herreshoff Manufacturing Company,
   designers and builders of the first United States torpedo boats and
   leading sailing craft of the world, and the influence of the America's
   Cup competition.

   The federal funding will be used toward improvements at the Herreshoff,
   including reconstruction of the seawalls and marine railway in the
   waterfront area where the museum is located. The museum also intends to
   build an addition housing a state of the art exhibition center,
   America's Cup Hall of Fame, additional boat exhibition spaces, a
   commercial center and a large auditorium for lectures and visitor
   functions.

Alzheimer's Center: $200,000

   This $200,000 appropriation will enable Cornerstone Adult Services to
   complete an on-going project to rebuild its Alzheimer's Center.
   Originally founded in 1987, this "first of its kind" dementia-specific
   Alzheimer's day center in Rhode Island had outgrown its original
   building, which was in need of repair beyond its actual value and no
   longer met fire code standards.

Newport Art Museum: $200,000

   Federal funds will be used to assist in the restoration and renovation
   of the John N.A. Griswold House at the Newport Art Museum. The Griswold
   House, built in 1864, has served as the home of the Newport Art Museum
   since 1916. Recently granted status as a Nation Historic Landmark by
   the National Park Service, historic preservation and restoration is
   currently underway on the house's exterior. This $200,000 will be used
   toward renovation of the building's interior.

Trinity Repertory Company: $150,000

   This funding will allow Trinity Repertory Company to convert a 1923
   bank building donated by Citizens Bank into a new performing arts
   space. The Pell-Chafee Performance Center will allow the company to
   expand its Shakespeare/Project Discovery program for Rhode Island
   schoolchildren, provide a regular venue for local arts organizations
   and stage guest productions by visiting artists.

Institute for the Study and Practice of Nonviolence: $100,000

   This $100,000 federal appropriation will be used to help fund the
   Institute for the Study of Practice of Nonviolence, which will be
   located in the former Convent of St. Michael's on Oxford Street in
   Providence. The building, which was donated by St. Michael's Church,
   will serve as a community center.

   The Institute will use the funds to renovate the building, turning it
   into a fully functioning alternative dispute resolution center,
   addressing the problem of violence and training young people in South
   Providence and throughout Rhode Island how to avoid violent conflict in
   their everyday lives.

Button Hole Inner City Youth Golf: $50,000

   This funding will be used by the City of Providence to aid in the
   completion of a 26-acre, 9-hole golf course and teaching center near
   Providence's Hartford, Manton and Olneyville neighborhoods.

   Transportation

Pawtucket Commuter Train Layover Facility (RIDOT): $1.5 million

   The funding will pay for the construction of a commuter rail layover
   facility which is necessary to expand commuter rail service between
   Providence and Boston. The layover facility is located in an industrial
   area near Interstate 95 and helps to ensure that commuter trains are
   maintained and operate efficiently. It is also essential to any effort
   to expand commuter rail service south of Providence.

New Buses for the Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA): $4.5
million

   Funds for RIPTA will go toward the purchase of new replacement buses.
   The average age of RIPTA's current fleet is over 10 years. The industry
   standard for bus replacement is 12 years.

Route 295 Bridges: $3 million

   Funding will be used to refurbish several bridges along the interstate.
   The Department of Transportation has indicated that the Scott Road
   Bridge, built in 1968, would be the first in a series of bridges on the
   in Cumberland and Lincoln to be refurbished.

Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA) Welfare to Work Jobs
Access Program: $2 million

   The funding will be used by RIPTA to improve access to jobs in suburban
   and urban areas for Rhode Islanders making the transition from welfare
   to work.

Route I-195 and Washington Street Bridge Improvements: $5 million

   This funding will be used to continue work begun to upgrade Route I-195
   and repair the Washington Street Bridge in Providence which spans the
   Narragansett Bay connecting Providence to East Providence. This years
   funding supplements $5.26 million which Congress approved in the fiscal
   year 2001 budget.

Woonsocket Depot: $650,000

   The funding will be used to restore the historic Woonsocket Depot, once
   one of the finest railroad passenger stations in New England.

   The Woonsocket Depot, built by the Providence & Worcester Railroad
   Company in 1882, houses offices and a small visitors center for the
   John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor
   Commission. The Rhode Island Department of Transportation has owned the
   facility, located in the heart of downtown Woonsocket, since obtaining
   it with federal funds in 1993, but has been unable to make any major
   renovations.

Blackstone River Bikeway: $1.5 million

   This federal funding will be used by the Rhode Island Department of
   Transportation to complete the third phase of the Blackstone River
   Bikeway. This section of the bikeway covers a one-mile stretch from
   Mill Street in Cumberland to John Street in Lincoln and includes
   construction of the Lonsdale Marsh boardwalk.

   Military Construction

Construction of a New Surface Warfare Officer School Instruction Building:
$15.29 million

   This new construction will replace a 1967 building which does not have
   adequate space or electrical capacity for today's school class size and
   technical needs.

Construction of a National Security Research Center and Library at NUWC:
$1.79 million

   The building will house a college library and research center and the
   strategic studies fellows group and the warfare development command for
   the Naval War College.

   The requirement for a new library and research center was identified
   thirteen years ago and space was supposed to be provided in the newly
   completed McCarty-Little Hall. However, in 1995, the construction of
   McCarty-Little Hall was scaled back and funding for the library and
   research center was eliminated forcing students to study and books to
   be shelved in an adapted parking garage. The parking garage cannot bear
   the weight of the college's entire collection and over 2,000 boxes are
   in storage, including rare books and historical documents which need
   proper preservation. In addition, for the past two years, the new
   fellows program which was added to the strategic studies group to aid
   in the Naval War College's planning for the Navy and the Warfare
   Development Command has been housed in Sims Hall, a World War I
   barracks. The layout of this building and the antiquated utilities are
   not conducive to the modern modeling and simulation critical to the
   work of these programs.

Construction of an Unmanned Undersea Combat Vehicle Laboratory: $9.3 million

   The Navy will construct the building at Naval Undersea Warfare Center
   in Newport to develop and test advanced unmanned undersea combat
   vehicles. This project will support the laboratories efforts to develop
   the communication systems, navigational systems and software necessary
   to permit deployment, maneuvering and data retrieval from unmanned
   undersea vehicles.

   The center will serve as the central site for the research and
   development phases of the next generation of underseas weaponry,
   including the development of new torpedoes and unmanned undersea
   vehicles.

   Construction of Rhode Island National Guard maintenance facility at
   Quonset to house and maintain the C-130J-30s: $9.6 million

   The funding will be used to complete construction of the Rhode Island
   National Guard maintenance facility to house and maintain the
   C-130J-30s the 143rd Airlift Wing will receive this year. Last year
   Congress appropriated $8.9 million for the first phase of construction.

   The new C-130J-30s aircraft measure 15 feet longer than the current
   C130E's used by the Guard, rendering the Airlift's current hangar
   inadequate. The current hangar was originally built in 1941, and is
   scheduled for demolition prior to 2005.

   Interior

National Wildlife refuge Land Acquisition: $1 million

   The $1 million would be used by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
   (USFWS) to purchase several tracts of land for the Rhode Island Refuge
   Complex. The Rhode Island Refuge Complex is comprised of five refuge
   units located along the southern shore of Rhode Island.

Pawtucket Armory: $250,000

   The appropriations bill provides $250,000 for the renovation of the
   historic Pawtucket Armory in Pawtucket, Rhode Island.

   Energy and Water

Providence River and Harbor: $2,110,000

   Reed and Chafee requested $2.11 million to allow the Army Corps of
   Engineers to perform maintenance dredging of the Providence River and
   Harbor federal navigation channel, including waters extending from the
   Fox Point Hurricane Barrier to the Francis Street Bridge. The proposed
   dredging project involves the removal of approximately four million
   cubic yards of material.

Permanent Offshore Disposal Study: $500,000

   Rhode Island is the only state in southern New England without a
   permanently designated disposal site for sediment from navigational
   dredging projects, leading to a severe backlog in routine maintenance
   dredging that increases the potential for serious damage to the coastal
   environment. The Providence River channel leading to the Port of
   Providence has not been dredged in nearly thirty years, making it
   impossible for many large vessels to enter the port. Reed and Chafee
   requested continued funding to support the study back in April.

Rhode Island South Shore Habitat Restoration: $160,000

   The South Shore Habitat Restoration Project seeks to selectively
   restore once productive habitats in the breachway tidal deltas of
   Ninigret, Quonochontaug and Winnapaug Ponds, as well as the fish
   passage in the salt pond tributaries leading to Cross Mills and Factory
   Ponds. This goal will be accomplished through a combination of choices
   that include planting, seeding and sand removal.

Quonset Davisville Channel Safety Study: $150,000

   A reconnaissance study is underway to determine the federal interest in
   maintaining the Quonset Point navigation channel in Narragansett Bay.
   Senators Reed and Chafee requested $150,000 to conduct a feasibility
   study to determine the methods for keeping the channel open.

   This is the second year in which funding has been obtained for the
   study.

Rhode Island Ecosystem Restoration: $50,000

   Two years ago, at the request of the late Senator John Chafee, Congress
   funded three reconnaissance studies investigating the opportunities to:
   restore degraded salt marshes and freshwater wetlands, restore
   anadromous fisheries, and improve overall fish and wildlife habitats.
   Each of the three studies focuses on a specific region: the coastal
   region; the Pawcatuck River and the Pawtuxet River watersheds; the
   Mohassuck River, Ten Mile River and the Woonasquatucket River
   watersheds.

   The reconnaissance studies have been completed. This year, Chafee and
   Reed requested $50,000 to complete a feasibility study, which will
   identify environmental restoration alternatives.

   Labor Health and Human Services

Newport Hospital: $1,000,000

   This funding will be used to help supplement a massive capital
   improvement project at Newport Hospital, which includes construction of
   a new hospital wing, as well as renovation of the existing building.

Women and Infants Hospital: $1,000,000

   Women and Infants Hospital will use this federal appropriation to fund
   the Kilguss Research Institute in expanding the hospital's research
   biomedical capacity. Funding will be used to defray the cost of
   converting a former jewelry manufacturing site into a state of the art
   research facility.

Roger Williams University: $850,000

   Roger Williams University will use these federal funds for its
   Professional Partnership Laboratory School which is designed to meet
   the professional development needs of the educational community in
   Rhode Island and to reduce the drop out rate of students statewide.
   This funding will allow the school to expand into the Bristol-Warren
   School District, serving approximately 500 students in grades K-12.

The University of Rhode Island Cancer Prevention Research Center: $125,000
(may be higher)

   These funds will be used by the University of Rhode Island to expand
   the facilities of its Cancer Prevention Research Center, located in
   Kingston, and to build on the Center's outreach capacity.

Roger Williams Retiree Health Link: $125,000

   Funds will be used to support Healthlink, a collaborative effort
   between Roger Williams Medical Center and the New England Association
   of Labor Retirees to develop and implement a comprehensive health
   promotion and disease prevention initiative for senior retirees. This
   follows a total of $1.4 million in funding that Reed was able to obtain
   for the program in fiscal years 2000 and 2001.

Salve Regina University: $100,000

   Salve Regina will use the funding to expand and update its distance
   education efforts in order to serve a larger potential student market
   via web links and interactive communication to courses, services and
   information.

Northeast and Islands Regional Educational Laboratory: $100,000

   The Northeast and Island Regional Educational Laboratory at Brown
   University will use the funding to help support its Knowledge Loom
   project, a learning and teaching website. Reed played a leading role in
   bringing the Northeast and Islands Regional Educational Laboratory to
   Rhode Island in 1995. Last year Reed was instrumental in helping to
   obtain a 5-year, $38 million contract from the U.S. Department of
   Education to allow the LAB at Brown University to continue to serve as
   the Northeast and Islands Regional Educational Laboratory.

Northwest Health Center: $100,000

   The health center, which is located in Pascoag, will use this funding
   to support health care services for approximately 3,500 low-income
   individuals.

Institute for International Sport: $100,000

   A nonprofit group located on the Kingston campus of the University of
   Rhode Island, the Institute for International Sport plans to expand the
   reach of its Center for Sports Parenting. The Center addresses the
   difficult questions related to sportsmanship between athletes and their
   parents.
