http://www.dbw.ca.gov/safety_edu.htm

   [USEMAP:Navbar.gif] [USEMAP:logo.gif]


Boating Safety and Education

   Welcome to our safety and education page! If you are a first-time
   boater or if you just want to know what the latest "rules of the road"
   are, this page will help make your boating activities safe and
   enjoyable.

   First, we recommend that you "know before you go." The Department of
   Boating and Waterways recommends that everyone take a boating education
   course. We offer a free home study course that you can take at your
   leisure. If you want immediate boating information, our ABCs of
   California Boating Law is viewable and downloadable.

   Aquatic Centers, operated by colleges, universities, and nonprofit
   organizations throughout California, offer on the water boating safety
   courses for a number of different boating activities, including
   sailing, canoeing, kayaking, water skiing, and the use of personal
   watercraft.

   The U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary and the U.S. Power Squadrons offer
   classes in many cities.

   Persons convicted of certain moving violations are required to pass a
   boating education course approved by the Department.

   The Department's aquatic and boating safety education program provides
   materials to more than 350,000 public school students, each year. A
   priority has been placed on elementary-level education in keeping with
   the Department's philosophy that aquatic and boating safety skills
   learned at an early age serve to protect students throughout their
   lives.

   Curriculum materials for aquatic and boating safety education are made
   available to all public schools at no charge. The series is divided
   into three parts, for grades K-2, 3-5, and 6-8. High school students
   are served by the Boating Safely program for grades 9-12.

   For more information on the Department's education programs, please
   contact Phaedra Bota at (916) 263-8188.
     * Recommended Reading - ABCs of California Boating Law
     * Home Study Course Description
     * Aquatic Centers
     * US Coast Guard Auxiliary & US Power Squadrons Classes
     * Aqua Smart Kids' Pages
     * Safe and Wise Waterways Poster Contest Winners
     * Boating Safety Courses Approved By
       California Department of Boating and Waterways
     * Harbors and Navigation Code
     * California Code of Regulations
     * Life Jacket Loan Program 2001
     * BoatSmarter.com
     * Boating Safety Report to the Legislature
