http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/methods/epiddocs/epis_brd.pdf

   EpiskinTM, EpiDermTM, and Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance
   (TER) In Vitro Test Methods for Assessing the Dermal Corrosivity
   Potential of Chemicals Background Review Document August 2001 Prepared
   By: The National Toxicology Program (NTP) Interagency Center for the
   Evaluation of Alternative Toxicological Methods (NICEATM) National
   Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) P.O. Box 12233 Mail
   Drop: EC-17 Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and
   Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) Background Review
   Document EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical
   Resistance (TER) Background Review Document May 29, 2001, revised July
   24, 2001 In Vitro Corrosivity Methods Background Materials TABLE OF
   CONTENTS 1.0 Executive Summary 2.0 Draft ICCVAM Test Recommendations
   3.0 EPISKIN 3.1 EPISKIN Test Method Protocol 3.2 Summary Report of the
   EPISKIN Assay 4.0 EpiDerm 4.1 EpiDerm Test Method Protocol 4.2 Summary
   Report of the EpiDerm Assay 5.0 Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical
   Resistance (TER) 5.1 Rat Skin TER Test Method Protocol 5.2 Summary
   Report of the Rat Skin TER Assay 6.0 References i EPISKIN , EpiDerm ,
   and Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) Background
   Review Document May 29, 2001, revised July 24, 2001 Appendices A.
   European Regulatory Acceptance A.1 ECVAM Scientific Advisory Committee
   (ESAC) Statement on Rat Skin TER and EPISKIN A.2 ESAC Statement on
   EpiDerm A.3 European Union Commission Directive for Rat Skin TER and a
   Human Skin Model Assay A.4 Meeting Record Excerpts from the Scientific
   Committee for Cosmetic Products, and Non-food Products intended for
   Consumers (SCCNFP) A.5 SCCNFP's Opinion on In Vitro Skin Corrosivity
   Methods A.6 SCCNFP's Committee Members B. OECD Test Guideline (TG)
   Documents B.1 OECD Draft Guideline, In Vitro Skin Corrosion Tests B.2
   OECD Status Report on the Proposed In Vitro Skin Corrosion TGs B.3 OECD
   Draft Revised Guideline 404, Acute Dermal Irritation/Corrosion B.4 OECD
   Revised Proposals for Updated TGs 404 and 405, Dermal and Eye
   Corrosion/Irritation Studies B.5 Related Correspondence B.5.1 Memo to
   the U.S. Contacts for the OECD's TGs Program regarding the Review of
   OECD's Proposed TG on In Vitro Skin Corrosion Tests B.5.2 OECD's
   explanatory cover letter B.5.3 OECD's Draft Proposed TG for In Vitro
   Skin Corrosion Tests (included in Appendix B.1) B.5.4 OECD's letter to
   the European Commission (EC) on the Proposed TG B.5.5 European
   Commission reply to the OECD B.5.6 An OECD note to the National
   Coordinators on the OECD's correspondence with the EC ii EPISKIN ,
   EpiDerm , and Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER)
   Background Review Document May 29, 2001, revised July 24, 2001 B.5.7
   Comments from the ICCVAM CWG on the Proposed OECD Draft TG on In Vitro
   Skin Corrosivity Tests C. Federal Regulations and Guidelines for
   Corrosivity C.1 Summary Table of Guidelines and Regulations for Dermal
   Corrosivity C.2 Chapter 8 (Precautionary Labeling) of U.S. EPA Office
   of Pesticide Programs Label Review Manual C.3 EPA Review of Skin and
   Eye Irritants C.4 Consumer Product and Safety Commission's (CPSC)
   POISINDEX Managements, Eye and Skin iii EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and Rat
   Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) Background Review
   Document NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001
   In Vitro Skin Corrosivity Methods: EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and Rat Skin
   Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) Executive Summary Corrosive
   substances are defined as chemicals causing visible destruction of, or
   irreversible alterations in living tissue by chemical action at the
   site of contact (29 CFR 1917.28). Dermal corrosivity testing is
   conducted to identify chemicals that potentially pose this hazard to
   humans upon contact. U.S. Federal regulations and guidelines include
   test methods for assessing dermal corrosivity, appropriate chemical
   packaging and labeling, appropriate transport and/or storage methods,
   and awareness education programs for workers in industrial settings.
   For regulatory purposes, corrosive chemicals and chemical mixtures are
   typically identified using an in vivo test method involving the
   application of chemicals or chemical mixtures to the intact skin of a
   rabbit. The skin is visually evaluated for corrosion within three
   minutes, and at one or four hours after application. Animal welfare
   considerations have led to efforts to develop in vitro alternative test
   methods. Three alternative in vitro test methods  EpiDerm , EPISKIN ,
   and the Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) assay  were
   developed and have subsequently been accepted as replacement assays for
   traditional in vivo corrosivity testing in the European Union (EU)
   (Anon., 2000). ICCVAM has implemented an expedited test method review
   process to consider methods which have been validated and adopted by
   other countries (ICCVAM, 2001). This process will accelerate
   interagency consideration of these test methods, thereby avoiding
   duplication of effort and unnecessary delays in recommending useful
   test methods to Federal agencies in accordance with Public Law 106-545.
   Validation and Regulatory Acceptance Status of EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and
   Rat Skin TER Independent validation studies on these three in vitro
   assays were conducted by the European Center for the Validation of
   Alternative Methods (ECVAM) (Barratt et al., 1998; Fentem et al., 1
   NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001 1998;
   Liebsch et al., 2000). The ECVAM Management Team concluded from these
   studies that the EpiDerm , Rat Skin TER, and EPISKIN methods were
   considered scientifically validated for use as replacements for the
   animal test for distinguishing between corrosive and non-corrosive
   chemicals for all of the chemical types studied. Further, EPISKIN was
   able to distinguish between chemicals in the EU skin corrosion hazard
   classes (R35 and R34) and United Nations (UN) packing group
   classifications (I and II/III), for all of the chemical types tested
   (Fentem et al., 1998).1 A review of these validation studies and the
   analyses conducted by reviewers for NICEATM are presented in the
   background review materials as follows: Summary Report of the EPISKIN
   In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity (Tice and Haneke (1),
   drafted May 13, 1999, revised July 24, 2001; Tab 3.2); Summary Report
   of the EpiDerm In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity (Tice,
   drafted May 31, 2001, July 24, 2001; Tab 4.2); and Summary Report of
   the Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) In Vitro Assay
   for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity (Tice and Haneke (2), drafted May 13,
   1999, revised July 24, 2001; Tab 5.2). Subsequent to the ECVAM studies,
   the validation status of these three methods was evaluated by the ECVAM
   Scientific Advisory Committee (ESAC) (Balls and Corcelle, 1998; Balls
   and Hellsten, 2000). EPISKIN and Rat Skin TER were also evaluated by
   the European Scientific Committee for Cosmetic Products and Non-food
   Products (SCCNFP) (Anon., 1999). EpiDerm , EPISKIN , and Rat Skin TER
   were adopted by the European Commission (Anon., 2000). The ESAC
   concluded that the Rat Skin TER and the EPISKIN tests were
   scientifically validated for use as replacements for the animal test
   for distinguishing between corrosive and non-corrosive 1 UN packing
   group classifications I, II, and III are assigned based on the capacity
   of a chemical, when tested on the intact skin of rabbits, to produce
   skin corrosion following exposure intervals of 3 minutes, 1 hour, or 4
   hours, respectively (Fentem et al., 1998). EU regulations require
   classification of chemicals according to certain risk phases, such as
   those assigned based on whether the chemical causes corrosion following
   a 3-minute application (R35  "causes severe burns"; analogous to
   packing group I) or 4 hours (R34  "causes burns"; analogous to packing
   groups II and III) (Barratt et al., 1998; Fentem et al., 1998). 2
   NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001 chemicals
   and that these in vitro tests were ready to be considered for
   regulatory acceptance (Balls and Corcelle, 1998). Based on a review of
   the results of the ECVAM-funded independent pre- validation/validation
   study on EpiDerm , coordinated by ZEBET (Centre for Documentation and
   Evaluation of Alternative Methods to Animal Experiments, Berlin,
   Germany), the ESAC concluded that EpiDerm can be used for
   distinguishing between corrosive and non-corrosive chemicals within the
   context of the draft EU and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
   Development (OECD) test guidelines on skin corrosion (Balls and
   Hellsten, 2000). The SCCNFP concluded that the validated Rat Skin TER
   and EPISKIN methods were considered to be applicable to the safety
   evaluation of cosmetic ingredients or mixtures of ingredients (Anon.,
   1999). The OECD has developed a draft test guideline (TG) on in vitro
   skin corrosion tests detailing the procedures of the Rat Skin TER assay
   and a generic Human Skin Model Assay (In Vitro Skin Corrosion Tests,
   Draft New Guideline, November 1999). A generic skin model assay was
   proposed based on OECD's policy not to recommend TGs for tests
   requiring equipment or material from a unique source. Review and
   comment on the OECD draft TG was requested from member countries in
   early 2000. Based on the comments submitted by the national
   coordinators to OECD on the proposed TG, a number of
   scientific/technical issues exist that require further consideration.
   The primary concerns identified are the lack of guidance on
   interpreting borderline results; the lack of sufficient detail on the
   generic in vitro human skin model assay, and the lack of consistency
   with the Globally Harmonised Classification System (GHS) with respect
   to the treatment of negative results in the in vitro skin corrosion
   tests (OECD ENV/JM/TG(2001)7). Due to the nature of the concerns
   identified, it was concluded at the OECD's 13th Working Group of
   National Coordinators of the Test Guidelines Programme (May 30  June 1,
   2001 in Paris, France) that an Extended Expert Consultation Meeting
   should be convened. This workshop is to be held on November 1-2, 2001
   in Berlin, Germany. The objectives of this meeting will include: i) the
   explanation, clarification, discussion, and agreement on all technical
   issues raised during the TG comment period, and ii) identification of
   additional work, if any, to be considered in order to approve the
   Guideline proposal. 3 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised
   July 30, 2001 EPISKIN EPISKIN is a three-dimensional human skin model
   composed a human collagen (Types III and I) matrix, representing the
   dermis, covered with a film of Type IV human collagen, upon which
   stratified differentiated epidermis derived from human keratinocytes
   has been laid. Test materials can be applied directly to the stratum
   corneum. The model utilizes cell viability as the measured endpoint.
   The mode of application (topical) of the test material mimics the route
   of human exposure. For use in corrosivity testing, the test material
   (liquids: 50 µL; solids: 20 mg) is applied to an epidermis unit for 3,
   60, and 240 minutes. Cell viability is assessed by measuring
   mitochondrial activity using the MTT (a tetrazolium salt) assay as
   compared to concurrent negative controls. A 35% decrease in cell
   viability is used to indicate a potential for human corrosivity. ECVAM
   conducted an independent validation study on the EPISKIN method as an
   in vitro replacement assay for in vivo corrosivity testing (Fentem et
   al., 1998). Sixty chemicals were evaluated in duplicate in three
   different laboratories; chemical selection and in vivo reference data
   were described by Barratt et al. (1998). The ECVAM validation chemical
   test set included organic acids, organic bases, neutral organics,
   phenols, inorganic acids, inorganic bases, inorganic salts,
   electrophiles, and soaps/surfactants. ECVAM concluded the set of test
   chemicals represented the best possible group for evaluating the
   performance characteristics of the in vitro assays, given the limited
   availability of unequivocal animal data (Barratt et al., 1998). An
   analysis was conducted, by reviewers supporting NICEATM, to evaluate
   the performance characteristics of the EPISKIN assay against the
   corresponding in vivo rabbit corrosivity data. The database used in the
   EPISKIN evaluation consisted of data from the ECVAM validation study
   only; other data were not located. For ease of comparison, chemicals
   evaluated in the EPISKIN assay were classified into the same chemical
   and product class designations used in the ICCVAM Peer Review of
   Corrositex (ICCVAM, 1999). A weight-of-evidence approach was used for
   classifying discordant results within or between laboratories; in
   instances where discordant results could not be resolved (i.e., there
   was an equal number of positive and negative 4 NICEATM Executive
   Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001 calls), the chemical was
   eliminated from inclusion in the performance calculations. Based on the
   database of 60 chemicals and chemical mixtures used in the validation
   study, EPISKIN had an accuracy of 83% (50/60 chemicals or chemical
   mixtures), a sensitivity of 82% (23/28 chemicals or chemical mixtures),
   and a specificity of 84% (27/32 chemicals or chemical mixtures).
   Furthermore, EPISKIN was able to distinguish between known R35/I and
   R34/II & III chemicals. Inter- and intra-laboratory reproducibility of
   EPISKIN was also evaluated by Fentem et al. (1998). In each laboratory,
   each chemical was tested three times using three different batches of
   EPISKIN . Intra- and inter-laboratory reliability was evaluated using a
   relative mean square diagram (determined using a two-way ANOVA with
   laboratory and experiments as factors), scatter diagrams to assess the
   possibility of divergence between results obtained in different
   laboratories, and range diagrams to summarize the overall performance
   of the tests. Of the 60 chemicals tested, 42 gave the same corrosivity
   classification in all three experiments in all three laboratories. For
   six chemicals, one test resulted in a classification differing from the
   other eight test results. For seven chemicals, the number of discordant
   results among the nine tests varied from two to three. For the
   remaining five chemicals, the number of discordant results among the
   nine tests varied from four to five. Although there were differences
   for some chemicals in trials between experiments within and between
   laboratories, ECVAM concluded that EPISKIN met the criteria agreed by
   the Management Team concerning acceptable intra- and inter-laboratory
   reproducibility (Fentem et al., 1998). EpiDerm The EpiDerm skin model
   is mechanistically and functionally related to EPISKIN . The assay
   consists of normal, human epidermal keratinocytes which have been
   cultured in chemically defined medium to produce a stratified, highly
   differentiated, organotypic tissue model of the human epidermis. The
   EpiDerm tissue consists of metabolically and mitotically active cells
   which are organized into a basal, spinous, and granular layer along
   with a multi-layered stratum corneum (MatTek Corporation, 2000). Like
   EPISKIN , the EpiDerm tissue approximates the barrier of normal human
   skin, and further, the topical mode of application of the test material
   in 5 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001
   EpiDerm mimics the route of human exposure. For use in corrosivity
   testing, the test material (liquids and semi-solids: 50 µL; solids: 25
   mg plus 25 µl of H2O) is applied to a tissue for three and 60 minutes.
   Per test compound, replicate plates are used for each test period. As
   with EPISKIN , cell viability is assessed by measuring mitochondrial
   activity using the MTT assay. A test chemical is classified as
   corrosive if it induces 50% decrease in relative cell viability at 3
   minutes or 85% decrease in relative cell viability at 60 minutes. ECVAM
   conducted an independent validation study on EpiDerm as an in vitro
   replacement assay for in vivo corrosivity testing (Liebsch et al.,
   2000). Twenty-four chemicals representative of the 60 chemicals tested
   in the Fentem et al. (1998) ECVAM validation study for the EPISKIN
   assay were tested. In selecting the 24 chemicals, care was taken to
   ensure a balanced representation of the chemical classes in this
   subset. The 24 chemicals selected included 12 corrosive and 12
   non-corrosive chemicals -- organic acids and bases, neutral organic
   bases, phenols, inorganic acids and bases, electrophiles, and
   surfactants. An analysis was conducted, by reviewers supporting
   NICEATM, to evaluate the performance characteristics of the EpiDerm
   assay against the corresponding in vivo rabbit corrosivity data. The
   database used in the evaluation of EpiDerm consisted of data from the
   ECVAM pre- validation/validation study only (Liebsch et al., 2000);
   other data were not located. For ease of comparison, chemicals were
   classified into the same chemical and product class designations used
   in the ICCVAM Peer Review of Corrositex (ICCVAM, 1999) and a
   weight-of-evidence approach was used for classifying any discordant
   results. Based on the database of 24 chemicals and chemical mixtures
   used in the validation study, EpiDerm had an accuracy of 92% (22/24
   chemicals or chemical mixtures), a sensitivity of 92% (11/12 chemicals
   or chemical mixtures), and a specificity of 83% (10/12 chemicals or
   chemical mixtures). Unlike EPISKIN , EpiDerm was not able to
   distinguish between known R35/I and R34/II & III chemicals. In the
   validation study, each chemical was tested twice using different tissue
   lots in each of three laboratories. Intra- and inter-laboratory
   reliability was evaluated using a relative mean square diagram
   (determined using a two-way ANOVA with laboratory and experiments as
   factors), 6 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30,
   2001 scatter diagrams to assess the possibility of divergence between
   results obtained in different laboratories, and range diagrams to
   summarize the overall performance of the tests. Of the 24 chemicals
   tested, 19 gave the same corrosivity classification in the two
   replicates in all three laboratories (6 tests). For three chemicals,
   one test resulted in a classification differing from the other five
   test results. Two discordant results in six tests were found for the
   two remaining chemicals. Based on the results obtained, ECVAM concluded
   that EpiDerm provided excellent reliability (Liebsch et al., 2000). Rat
   Skin TER In the Rat Skin TER assay, test materials (liquids: 150 µL;
   solids 100 mg plus 150 µL of water) are applied for two and 24 hours to
   the epidermal surfaces of skin discs obtained from the skin of humanely
   killed young rats. Nine to 15 discs can be prepared from one rat pelt.
   Corrosive materials are identified by the ability of the chemical to
   produce a loss of normal stratum corneum integrity and barrier
   function, which is measured as a reduction of the inherent
   transcutaneous electrical resistance below a predetermined threshold
   level of 5 k . A prevalidation study of the Rat Skin TER assay was
   conducted during 1993 and 1994 (Botham et al., 1995) to evaluate the
   relative performance, to assess interlaboratory variability, and to
   evaluate the validation status of the method. Subsequently, in 1997,
   the Rat Skin TER method was also validated in an independent ECVAM
   study as an in vitro replacement test method for traditional in vivo
   testing and was tested using the same 60 chemicals and chemical
   mixtures as EPISKIN (Fentem et al., 1998). An analysis was conducted,
   by reviewers supporting NICEATM, to evaluate the performance
   characteristics of the Rat Skin TER assay against the corresponding in
   vivo rabbit corrosivity data. The database used in the TER evaluation
   consisted of data from three published sources (Botham et al., 1992;
   Botham et al., 1995; Fentem et al., 1998). For ease of comparison,
   chemicals evaluated in the TER assay were classified into the same
   chemical and product class designations used in the ICCVAM Peer Review
   of Corrositex evaluation (ICCVAM, 1999). A weight-of-evidence approach
   was used for classifying discordant results as previously described. 7
   NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001 Based on
   a database of 122 chemical and chemical mixtures, TER had an accuracy
   of 81% (99/122 chemicals or chemical mixtures), a sensitivity of 94%
   (51/54 chemicals or chemical mixtures), and a specificity of 71% (48/68
   chemicals or chemical mixtures). These performance characteristics were
   not different when the Botham et al. (1992) and (1995) studies were
   evaluated independently of the ECVAM validation study (Fentem et al.,
   1998). Rat Skin TER was not capable of classifying chemicals or
   chemical mixtures by UN corrosivity packing group. In the ECVAM
   validation study (Fentem et al., 1998), the intra- and inter-
   laboratory reliability was evaluated using a relative mean square
   diagram, scatter diagrams, and range diagrams as previously described.
   In this study, the inter- and intra-laboratory reproducibility were
   approximately equivalent, with no evidence of systematic differences
   between experiments within a laboratory. Of the 60 chemicals tested, 37
   gave the same corrosivity classification in both experiments in all
   three laboratories (6 tests). For 11 chemicals, one test resulted in a
   classification differing from the other five test results. For the
   remaining 12 chemicals, the number of discordant results among the six
   tests varied from two to three. ECVAM concluded the TER assay was both
   reliable and reproducible. Summary Conclusions The existing database of
   information, along with conclusions and recommendations of review
   bodies and regulatory authorities, was used to develop responses for
   two questions for each test: 1. Has the assay been evaluated
   sufficiently and is its performance satisfactory to support the
   proposed use for assessing the corrosivity potential of chemicals and
   chemical mixtures? 2. Does the assay adequately consider and
   incorporate, where scientifically feasible and applicable, the 3Rs of
   animal use (refinement, reduction, and replacement alternatives)? Does
   the assay offer advantages with respect to animal welfare
   considerations? 8 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July
   30, 2001 In response to the first question, the performance
   characteristics of all three in vitro methods indicate, in specific
   testing circumstances, that these tests may be considered useful as
   part of an integrated testing strategy for assessing the dermal
   corrosion potential of chemicals. Only the EPISKIN skin model was
   adequate for assigning packing groups according to the EU skin
   corrosion hazard classes (R34/R35) and the UN packing group
   classifications (I and II/III). However, since the performance of
   EPISKIN was not assessed for distinguishing between UN packing group II
   and packing group III, all R34 classifications would be conservatively
   classified as packing group II. Each of the three in vitro corrosivity
   methods sufficiently considers and incorporates, where scientifically
   feasible and applicable, the 3Rs of animal use (refinement, reduction,
   and replacement alternatives). When incorporated into an integrated
   testing approach, the use of EpiDerm and EPISKIN offer advantages with
   respect to animal use refinement, reduction, and replacement. The Rat
   Skin TER method offers animal welfare advantages, including animal use
   refinement and reduction; this method reduces the number of animals
   used as skin from one humanely killed rat may be used to test up to
   five chemicals. Similar to EpiDerm and EPISKIN , the use of the Rat
   Skin TER assay as part of the integrated testing strategy for
   corrosivity/irritation reduces and refines the use of animals. ICCVAM
   Recommendations Based on an evaluation of the ECVAM validation studies
   and all other available data, ICCVAM concludes that there are
   sufficient data to substantiate the use of these assays for assessing
   the dermal corrosion potential of chemicals in a weight-of-evidence
   approach in an integrated testing scheme (e.g., OECD GHS and/or the
   OECD Revised Proposals for Updated Test Guidelines 404 and 405: Dermal
   and Eye Corrosion/Irritation Studies (ENV/JM/TG(2001)2). The integrated
   testing schemes for dermal irritation/corrosion allow for the use of
   validated and accepted in vitro methods. In this approach, positive in
   vitro corrosivity responses do not generally require further testing
   and can be used for classification and labeling. Negative in vitro
   corrosivity responses would be followed by in vivo dermal
   corrosion/irritation testing. (Note: The first animal used in the
   irritation/corrosivity assessment would be expected to identify any
   chemical 9 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30,
   2001 corrosives that were false negatives in the in vitro test).
   Furthermore, as is appropriate for any in vitro assay, there is the
   opportunity for confirmatory testing if false positive results are
   indicated based on a weight-of-evidence evaluation of supplemental
   information, such as pH, structure- activity relationships (SAR), and
   other chemical and testing information. ICCVAM concludes also that each
   of the three in vitro corrosivity methods sufficiently consider and
   incorporate, where scientifically feasible and applicable, the 3Rs of
   animal use (refinement, reduction, and replacement alternatives). When
   EpiDerm and EPISKIN are used as part of the integrated testing strategy
   for corrosivity/irritation, there is a reduction in the number of
   animals required because positive results usually eliminate the need
   for animal testing, and when further testing in animals is determined
   to be necessary, only one animal could be required to identify a
   corrosive chemical (one animal is used if the in vitro test is
   negative). Compared to the rabbit corrosivity test, the Rat Skin TER
   method reduces the number of animals used because skin from only one
   rat may be used to test up to five chemicals. Similar to EpiDerm and
   EPISKIN , the use of the Rat Skin TER assay as part of the integrated
   testing strategy for corrosivity/irritation reduces and refines the use
   of animals by providing a basis for decisions on further animal
   testing. References 29 CFR 1917.28. 1998. Title 29: Occupational Safety
   and Health Administration. Code of Federal Regulations. Part 1917:
   Health Hazard Definitions (Mandatory). Section 28: Definition of
   Corrosive. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC. Available:
   http://www.osha- slc.gov/OshStd_data/1917_0028_APP_A.html [cited July
   19, 2001]. Anon. EU Commission Directive 2000/33/EC of 25 April 2000
   (Official Journal of the European Communities), Skin Corrosion, Rat
   Skin TER and Human Skin Model Assay. OJ L 136, June 8, 2000. Available:
   http://europa.eu.int/eur- lex/en/archive/2000/l_13620000608en.html
   [cited July 19, 2001]. Anon. Scientific Committee for Cosmetic
   Products, and Non-food Products intended for Consumers. Excerpts of the
   Outcome of discussions Record of the 6th Plenary Meeting (SCCNFP)
   Brussels, 20 January 1999. Available:
   http://europa.eu.int/comm/food/fs/sc/sccp/out50_en.html [cited July 19,
   2001]. 10 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30, 2001
   Balls M, Corcelle G. "Statement on the scientific validity of the Rat
   Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) Test (an in vitro test
   for skin corrosivity) and Statement of the scientific validity of the
   EPISKIN test (an in vitro test for skin corrosivity)," dated April 3.
   Statement from the European Commission Joint Research Centre,
   Environment Institute, Ispra (VA), Italy presenting the results of the
   10th ECVAM Scientific Advisory Committee (ESAC) meeting on March 31
   (1998). Available: http://www.iivs.org/news/ratskin-episkin.html [cited
   July 19, 2001]. Balls M, Hellsten E. "Statement on the application of
   the EpiDerm human skin model for corrosivity testing," ECVAM Scientific
   Advisory Committee meeting, Ispra, Italy, March 14-15 (2000). Barratt,
   MD, Brantom PG, Fentem JH, Gerner I, Walker AP, Worth AP. The ECVAM
   international validation study on in vitro tests for skin corrosivity.
   1. Selection and distribution of the test chemicals. Toxicol. In Vitro
   12:471-482 (1998). Botham, PA, Chamberlain M, Barratt MD, Curren RD,
   Esdaile DJ, Gardner JR, Gordon VC, Hildebrand B, Lewis RW, Liebsch M,
   Logemann P, Osborne R, Ponec M, Regnier J-F, Steiling W, Walker AP,
   Balls M. A prevalidation study on in vitro skin corrosivity testing:
   The report and recommendations of ECVAM workshop 6. ATLA-Alternatives
   to Laboratory Animals 23:219-255 (1995). Botham, PA, Hall TJ, Dennett
   R, McCall JC, Basketter DA, Whittle E, Cheeseman M, Esdaile DJ, Gardner
   J. The skin corrosivity test in vitro. Results of an inter-laboratory
   trial. Toxicol. In Vitro 6:191-194 (1992). Fentem, JH, Archer GEB,
   Balls M, Botham PA, Curren RD, Earl LK, Esdaile DJ, Holzhutter H-G,
   Liebsch M. The ECVAM international validation study on in vitro tests
   for skin corrosivity. 2. Results and evaluation by the management team.
   Toxicol. In Vitro 12:483-524 (1998). The Interagency Center for the
   Validation of Alternative Methods (ICCVAM). Procedures for test methods
   that have been endorsed by ECVAM (April 20, 2001). Approved with minor
   revisions by the committee at the April 23, 2001 ICCVAM meeting.
   ICCVAM. Results of an Independent Peer Review Evaluation of Corrositex
   : An In Vitro Test Method for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity Potential of
   Chemicals. NIH Publication No. 99-4495 (1999) Available:
   http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/docs/reports/corprrep.pdf. [cited July 19,
   2001]. Liebsch M, Traue D, Barrabas C, Spielmann H, Uphill P, Wilkins
   S, McPherson JP, Wiemann C, Kaufmann T, Remmele M, Holzhutter HG. The
   ECVAM prevalidation study on the use of EpiDerm for skin corrosivity
   testing. ATLA-Alternatives to Laboratory Animals 28:371-401 (2000).
   MatTek Corporation. EpiDerm skin corrosivity test: An in vitro
   replacement for animal-based skin corrosion testing. ICCVAM Submission
   (2000). 11 NICEATM Executive Summary June 6, 2001, revised July 30,
   2001 OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development).
   OECD draft proposal for a new guideline for in vitro skin corrosion
   tests. OECD, Paris (November 1999). Available:
   http://www.oecd.org//ehs/test/health.htm#DRAFT GUIDELINES [cited July
   19, 2001]. OECD. Draft Revised Guideline 404: Acute Dermal
   Irritation/Corrosion. OECD, Paris (March 2000). Available:
   http://www.oecd.org//ehs/test/health.htm#DRAFT GUIDELINES [cited July
   19, 2001]. OECD ENV/JM/TG(2001)2. OECD Revised Proposals for Updated
   Test Guidelines 404 and 405: Dermal and Eye Corrosion/Irritation
   Studies. OECD Environment Directorate, Joint Meeting of the Chemicals
   Committee and the Working Party on Chemicals, Pesticides and
   Biotechnology. Test Guidelines Programme. (ENV/JM/TG(2001)2),
   circulated in preparation for the 13th Meeting of the Working Group of
   the National Coordinators of the Test Guidelines Programme OECD
   ENV/JM/TG(2001)7. Status report on proposals for test guidelines on in
   vitro skin corrosion test, and in vitro 3T3 NRU phototoxicity test.
   OECD Environment Directorate, Joint Meeting of the Chemicals Committee
   and the Working Party on Chemicals, Pesticides and Biotechnology. Test
   Guidelines Programme. May 10(2001) (ENV/JM/TG(2001)7), circulated in
   preparation for the 13th Meeting of the Working Group of the National
   Coordinators of the Test Guidelines Programme Tice R. Summary Report of
   the EpiDerm In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity. Drafted
   May 31, 2001, Revised July 24, 2001. Included in the Background Review
   Document, Tab 4.2. Tice R, Haneke K (1). Summary Report of the EPISKIN
   In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity. Drafted May 13, 1999,
   Revised July 24, 2001. Included in the Background Review Document, Tab
   3.2. Tice R, Haneke K (2). Summary Report of the Rat Skin
   Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) In Vitro Assay for Assessing
   Dermal Corrosivity. Drafted May 13, 1999, Revised July 24, 2001.
   Included in the Background Review Document, Tab 5.2. 12 NICEATM ICCVAM
   Recommendations on In Vitro Corrosivity Methods May 30, 2001; revised
   August 29, 2001 ICCVAM Draft Proposed Recommendations on Three In Vitro
   Methods for Assessing the Dermal Corrosivity Potential of Chemicals:
   EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance
   (TER) [NOTE : The following statements represent the draft proposed
   test recommendations from the ICCVAM Corrosivity Working Group (CWG)
   for consideration and endorsement by the ICCVAM at their August 27,
   2001 meeting. Following endorsement by ICCVAM, public comment on the
   proposed recommendations will then be solicited by NICEATM via a
   Federal Register notice. Following receipt and consideration of any
   public comments, the CWG will prepare final test recommendations for
   ICCVAM approval. These will be forwarded to agencies for their
   consideration and adoption where appropriate.] I. Introduction The
   Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative
   Methods (ICCVAM) has developed proposed recommendations for the use of
   three in vitro test methods  EpiDerm , EPISKIN , and Rat Skin
   Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER)  to assess the dermal
   corrosivity potential of chemicals and chemical mixtures. Validation
   studies for these methods were conducted by the European Centre for the
   Validation of Alternative Methods (ECVAM) (Baratt et al., 1998; Fentem
   et al., 1998; Liebsch et al., 2000). The validation status of these
   three methods has been evaluated by the ECVAM Scientific Advisory
   Committee (ESAC) (Balls and Corcelle, 1998; Balls and Hellsten, 2000),
   and EPISKIN and Rat Skin TER have also been evaluated by the European
   Scientific Committee for Cosmetic Products and Non- food Products
   (SCCNFP) (Anon., 1999). These three methods have been adopted for
   regulatory use within the European Union (EU) by the European
   Commission (Anon., 2000). ICCVAM has implemented an expedited test
   method review process to consider methods which have been validated and
   adopted by other countries (ICCVAM, 2001). This process will accelerate
   interagency consideration of these test methods, thereby avoiding
   duplication of effort and unnecessary delays in recommending useful
   test methods to Federal agencies. ICCVAM and the ICCVAM Corrosivity
   Working Group (CWG) considered background review documents 1 NICEATM
   ICCVAM Recommendations on In Vitro Corrosivity Methods May 30, 2001;
   revised August 29, 2001 prepared by the NTP Interagency Center for the
   Evaluation of Alternative Methods (NICEATM) on all three corrosivity
   methods. Based on the information provided, it was not considered
   necessary to organize a formal, independent scientific peer review
   panel evaluation. ICCVAM proposed recommendations on the test methods
   were subsequently developed and are provided below. These
   recommendations and the background review documents will be made
   available for public comment. Following receipt and consideration of
   public comments, ICCVAM will develop and forward final recommendations
   on these methods to U.S. agencies for their consideration and adoption
   where appropriate. II. Background A. ECVAM Evaluation Validation
   studies on these three in vitro assays were conducted by ECVAM (Barratt
   et al., 1998; Fentem et al., 1998; Liebsch et al., 2000). Based on the
   results, the ECVAM Management Team concluded that EpiDerm , Rat Skin
   TER, and EPISKIN were scientifically valid for use as replacements for
   the animal test currently used to distinguish between corrosive and
   non-corrosive chemicals and for all chemical classes (Fentem et al.,
   1998; Liebsch et al., 2000). Of the three test methods, only EPISKIN
   was able to distinguish between chemicals in the EU skin corrosion
   hazard classes (R35 and R34) and United Nations (UN) packing group
   classifications (I and II/III) (Fentem et al., 1998).1 A review of
   these validation studies and the analyses conducted by reviewers for
   NICEATM are presented in the background review materials as follows:
   Summary Report of the EPISKIN In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal
   Corrosivity (Tice and Haneke (1), drafted May 13, 1999, revised July
   24, 2001; Tab 3.2); Summary Report of the EpiDerm In Vitro Assay for
   Assessing Dermal Corrosivity (Tice, drafted May 31, 2001, July 24,
   2001; Tab 4.2); and Summary Report of the 1 UN packing group
   classifications I, II, and III are assigned based on the capacity of a
   chemical, when tested on the intact skin of rabbits, to produce skin
   corrosion following exposure intervals of 3 minutes, 1 hour, or 4
   hours, respectively (Fentem et al., 1998). EU regulations require
   classification of chemicals according to certain risk phases, such as
   those assigned based on whether the chemical causes corrosion following
   a 3-minute application (R35  "causes severe burns"; analogous to
   packing group I) or 4 hours (R34  "causes burns"; analogous to packing
   groups II and III) (Barratt et al., 1998; Fentem et al., 1998). 2
   NICEATM ICCVAM Recommendations on In Vitro Corrosivity Methods May 30,
   2001; revised August 29, 2001 Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical
   Resistance (TER) In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity (Tice
   and Haneke (2), drafted May 13, 1999, revised July 24, 2001; Tab 5.2).
   B. Status in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
   (OECD) Test Guidelines Program The OECD has developed a draft test
   guideline (TG) on in vitro skin corrosion tests detailing the
   procedures of the Rat Skin TER assay and a generic Human Skin Model
   Assay (In Vitro Skin Corrosion Tests, Draft New Guideline, November
   1999). A generic skin model assay was proposed based on OECD's policy
   not to recommend TGs for tests requiring equipment or material from a
   unique source. Review and comment on the OECD draft TG was requested
   from member countries in early 2000. Based on the comments submitted by
   the national coordinators to OECD on the proposed TG, a number of
   scientific/technical issues exist that require further consideration.
   The primary concerns identified are the lack of guidance on
   interpreting borderline results; the lack of sufficient detail on the
   generic in vitro human skin model assay, and the lack of consistency
   with the Globally Harmonised Classification System (GHS) with respect
   to the treatment of negative results in the in vitro skin corrosion
   tests (OECD ENV/JM/TG(2001)7). Due to the nature of the concerns
   identified, it was concluded at the OECD's 13th Working Group of
   National Coordinators of the Test Guidelines Programme (May 30  June 1,
   2001 in Paris, France) that an Extended Expert Consultation Meeting
   should be convened. This workshop is to be held on November 1-2, 2001
   in Berlin, Germany. The objectives of this meeting will include: i) the
   explanation, clarification, discussion, and agreement on all technical
   issues raised during the TG comment period, and ii) identification of
   additional work, if any, to be considered in order to approve the
   Guideline proposal. III. Proposed ICCVAM Test Method Recommendations
   Based on evaluation of the ECVAM validation studies and all other
   available data, ICCVAM concludes that there are sufficient data to
   substantiate the use of these assays for assessing the dermal corrosion
   potential of chemicals in a weight-of-evidence approach in an
   integrated testing scheme (e.g., OECD GHS and/or the OECD Revised
   Proposals for Updated Test Guidelines 404 3 NICEATM ICCVAM
   Recommendations on In Vitro Corrosivity Methods May 30, 2001; revised
   August 29, 2001 and 405: Dermal and Eye Corrosion/Irritation Studies
   (ENV/JM/TG(2001)2). The integrated testing schemes for dermal
   irritation/corrosion allow for the use of validated and accepted in
   vitro methods. In this approach, positive in vitro corrosivity
   responses do not generally require further testing and can be used for
   classification and labeling. Negative in vitro corrosivity responses
   shall be followed by in vivo dermal corrosion/irritation testing.
   (Note: The first animal used in the irritation/corrosivity assessment
   would be expected to identify any chemical corrosives that were false
   negatives in the in vitro test). Furthermore, as is appropriate for any
   in vitro assay, there is the opportunity for confirmatory testing if
   false positive results are indicated based on a weight-of-evidence
   evaluation of supplemental information, such as pH, structure- activity
   relationships (SAR), and other chemical and testing information. ICCVAM
   concludes also that each of the three in vitro corrosivity methods
   sufficiently consider and incorporate, where scientifically feasible
   and applicable, the 3Rs of animal use (refinement, reduction, and
   replacement alternatives). When EpiDerm and EPISKIN are used as part of
   the integrated testing strategy for corrosivity/irritation, there is a
   reduction in the number of animals required because positive results
   usually eliminate the need for animal testing, and when further testing
   in animals is determined to be necessary, only one animal could be
   required to identify a corrosive chemical (one animal is used if the in
   vitro test is negative). Compared to the rabbit corrosivity test, the
   Rat Skin TER method reduces the number of animals used because skin
   from only one rat may be used to test up to five chemicals. Similar to
   EpiDerm and EPISKIN , the use of the Rat Skin TER assay as part of the
   integrated testing strategy for corrosivity/irritation reduces and
   refines the use of animals by providing a basis for decisions on
   further animal testing. References Anon. EU Commission Directive
   2000/33/EC of 25 April 2000 (Official Journal of the European
   Communities), Skin Corrosion, Rat Skin TER and Human Skin Model Assay.
   OJ L 136, June 8, 2000. Available: http://europa.eu.int/eur-
   lex/en/archive/2000/l_13620000608en.html [cited July 19, 2001]. 4
   NICEATM ICCVAM Recommendations on In Vitro Corrosivity Methods May 30,
   2001; revised August 29, 2001 Anon. Scientific Committee for Cosmetic
   Products, and Non-food Products intended for Consumers. Excerpts of the
   Outcome of discussions Record of the 6th Plenary Meeting (SCCNFP)
   Brussels, Belgium. January 20, 1999. Available:
   http://europa.eu.int/comm/food/fs/sc/sccp/out50_en.html [cited July 19,
   2001]. Balls M, Corcelle G. "Statement on the scientific validity of
   the Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) Test (an in
   vitro test for skin corrosivity) and Statement of the scientific
   validity of the EPISKIN test (an in vitro test for skin corrosivity),"
   dated April 3, 1998. Statement from the European Commission Joint
   Research Centre, Environment Institute, Ispra (VA), Italy presenting
   the results of the 10th ECVAM Scientific Advisory Committee (ESAC)
   meeting on March 31 (1998). Available:
   http://www.iivs.org/news/ratskin-episkin.html [cited July 19, 2001].
   Balls M, Hellsten E. "Statement on the application of the EpiDerm human
   skin model for corrosivity testing," dated March 20, 2000. ECVAM
   Scientific Advisory Committee meeting, Ispra, Italy, March 14-15
   (2000). Barratt, MD, Brantom PG, Fentem JH, Gerner I, Walker AP, Worth
   AP. The ECVAM international validation study on in vitro tests for skin
   corrosivity. 1. Selection and distribution of the test chemicals.
   Toxicol. In Vitro 12:471-482 (1998). Fentem, JH, Archer GEB, Balls M,
   Botham PA, Curren RD, Earl LK, Esdaile DJ, Holzhutter H- G, Liebsch M.
   The ECVAM international validation study on in vitro tests for skin
   corrosivity. 2. Results and evaluation by the management team. Toxicol.
   In Vitro 12:483-524 (1998). The Interagency Center for the Validation
   of Alternative Methods (ICCVAM). Procedures for test methods that have
   been endorsed by ECVAM (April 20, 2001). Approved with minor revisions
   by the committee at the April 23, 2001 ICCVAM meeting. Liebsch M, Traue
   D, Barrabas C, Spielmann H, Uphill P, Wilkins S, McPherson JP, Wiemann
   C, Kaufmann T, Remmele M, Holzhutter HG. The ECVAM prevalidation study
   on the use of 5 NICEATM ICCVAM Recommendations on In Vitro Corrosivity
   Methods May 30, 2001; revised August 29, 2001 EpiDerm for skin
   corrosivity testing. ATLA-Alternatives to Laboratory Animals 28:371-401
   (2000). Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
   OECD ENV/JM/TG(2001)2. OECD Revised Proposals for Updated Test
   Guidelines 404 and 405: Dermal and Eye Corrosion/Irritation Studies.
   OECD Environment Directorate, Joint Meeting of the Chemicals Committee
   and the Working Party on Chemicals, Pesticides and Biotechnology. Test
   Guidelines Programme. Circulated in preparation for the 13th Meeting of
   the Working Group of the National Coordinators of the Test Guidelines
   Programme. OECD ENV/JM/TG(2001)7. Status report on proposals for test
   guidelines on in vitro skin corrosion test, and in vitro 3T3 NRU
   phototoxicity test. OECD Environment Directorate, Joint Meeting of the
   Chemicals Committee and the Working Party on Chemicals, Pesticides and
   Biotechnology. Test Guidelines Programme. May 10, 2001. Circulated in
   preparation for the 13th Meeting of the Working Group of the National
   Coordinators of the Test Guidelines Programme. OECD Guideline for the
   Testing of Chemicals, Draft Proposal for a New Guideline, In Vitro Skin
   Corrosion Tests (Draft, November 1999). Available:
   http://www.oecd.org//ehs/test/health.htm [cited July 19, 2001]. Tice R.
   Summary Report of the EpiDerm In Vitro Assay for Assessing Dermal
   Corrosivity. Drafted May 31, 2001, Revised July 24, 2001. (Tab 4.2 in
   BRD) Tice R, Haneke K (1). Summary Report of the EPISKIN In Vitro Assay
   for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity. Drafted May 13, 1999, Revised July
   24, 2001. (Tab 3.2 in BRD) Tice R, Haneke K (2). Summary Report of the
   Rat Skin Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance (TER) In Vitro Assay for
   Assessing Dermal Corrosivity. Drafted May 13, 1999, Revised July 24,
   2001. (Tab 5.2 in BRD) 6 ECVAM Protocol for EPISKIN : an In Vitro Assay
   for Assessing Dermal Corrosivity Original Draft: March 1997 Confirmed:
   October 2000 NOTE: This protocol presents the standard operating
   procedure used in the ECVAM Skin Corrosivity Validation Study
   (1996/1997). ECVAM confirmed the accuracy of the SOP in October 2000,
   and this protocol was supplied by Dr. Andrew Worth of ECVAM via email
   on May 22, 2001. EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and Rat Skin Transcutaneous
   Electrical Resistance (TER) Background Review Document ECVAM Protocol
   for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 EPISKINTM Test The
   corrosivity potential of a chemical may be predicted by measurement of
   its cytotoxic effect, as reflected in the MTT assay, on the EPISKINTM
   reconstituted human epidermis. Objectives and Application TYPE OF
   TESTING : screening, replacement LEVEL OF ASSESSMENT : toxic potential,
   toxic potency, hazard identification PURPOSE OF TESTING :
   classification and labelling Proposed replacement for the in vivo
   Draize rabbit skin corrosivity test to be used for hazard
   identification and classification of corrosive potential to fulfil
   international regulatory requirements pertaining to the handling,
   packing and transport of chemicals. Basis of the Method Most
   international regulatory classification schemes define chemically
   induced dermal corrosion as full thickness destruction (necrosis) of
   the skin tissue, while some extend the definition of corrosion to
   include any irreversible alterations caused to the skin. The potential
   to induce skin corrosion is an important consideration in establishing
   procedures for the safe handling, packing and transport of chemicals.
   The determination of skin corrosion potential is therefore included in
   international regulatory requirements for the testing of chemicals, for
   example, in OECD testing guideline 404 (Anon., 1992); Annex V of
   Directive 67/548/EEC (Anon., 1992) and in the U.S. Code of Federal
   Regulations (Anon., 1991). Corrosivity is usually determined in vivo
   using the Draize rabbit skin test (Draize et al., 1944). The present
   test is based on the experience that corrosive chemicals show cytotoxic
   effects following short-term exposure of the stratum corneum of the
   epidermis. The test is designed to predict and classify the skin
   corrosivity potential of a chemical by assessment of its effect on a
   reconstituted human epidermis. EPISKIN Standard ModelTM is a
   three-dimensional human skin model comprising a reconstructed epidermis
   with a functional stratum corneum. Its use for skin corrosivity testing
   involves topical application of test materials to the surface of the
   skin, and the subsequent assessment of their effects on cell viability.
   Cytotoxicity is expressed as the reduction of mitochondrial
   dehydrogenase activity measured by formazan production from MTT.
   (Fentem et al., 1998) Experimental Description Endpoint and Endpoint
   Detection : cell viability as determined by reduction of mitochondrial
   dehydrogenase activity measured by formazan production from MTT Test
   System : EPISKINTM reconstructed human epidermis system * 980316 ECVAM
   Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 1 of 14 ECVAM Protocol for
   EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 Test materials are
   applied to the stratum corneum of the epidermal model (one epidermis
   unit per test material) for three different exposure periods: 3
   minutes, 1 hour, and 4 hours. Exposure to the test chemical was
   terminated by rinsing with PBS (phosphate buffered saline). EPISKIN
   cultures exposed to the control compounds for 240 min serve as the
   controls for all three exposure periods. For each test material, three
   independent tests with three different batches of EPISKIN are to be
   undertaken. The viability of the epidermis is assessed by measuring the
   mitochondrial activity. The tissues are incubated for 3 hours with MTT
   solution (0.3 mg/l; 2.2 ml per well). MTT, a yellow-coloured
   tetrazolium salt, is reduced by succinate dehydrogenase into a blue
   formazan precipitate in the mitochondria of living cells. The
   precipitated formazan is extracted overnight by using acidified
   isopropanol (0.85 ml), and is then quantified spectrophotometrically at
   a wavelength between 545nm and 595nm. All experimental procedures have
   to be conducted at room temperature (18-28°C); if the temperature is
   below 20°C, the 3-hour MTT incubation should be carried out in a warmer
   environment of 20-28°C. NaCl (50 µl) and glacial acetic acid (50 µl)
   are used as negative and positive controls, respectively. Some highly
   reactive chemicals can produce fumes, which may affect adjacent units
   in the same plate. It is recommended that if there is any suspicion
   that a material could cause fumes, it should be tested alone in a
   single plate. It is particularly important that the negative control
   units are not exposed to fumes from other units, hence it is
   recommended to routinely incubate positive and negative controls in a
   separate plate. NOTE: The commercial availability of EPISKIN
   (SADUC-Biomatériaux Imedex, Chaponost, France) was restricted following
   the completion of the validation study to enable new production
   facilities to be completed. It is likely to be available again during
   2000. In a subsequent small catch up study, the EPIDERM nodel has been
   tested and accepted for the assessment of the corrosive potential of
   chemical substances (INVITTOX No. 119). Test Compounds A total of 60
   test compounds, consisting of 11 organic acids, 10 organic bases, 9
   neutral organics, 5 phenols, 7 inorganic acids, 4 inorganic bases, 3
   inorganic salts, 8 electrophiles, 3 soaps/surfactants have been tested
   in the ECVAM validation study. Details of the test compounds and test
   results are available in dbVas of ECVAM SIS. Prediction Model The test
   results are interpreted on the basis of the exposure time needed to
   cause cell viability to decrease below 35%. The determination of the UN
   packing groups and EU classifications is summarized in the table
   reported in the section 4.1. "Interpretation of test results" of the
   present standard operating procedure. 980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1
   Episkin-IP 118 page 2 of 14 ECVAM Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March
   1997, confirmed May 2000 Status This method has been evaluated in the
   ECVAM Skin Corrosivity Validation Study conducted under the auspices of
   ECVAM during 1996 and 1997 (Fentem et al., 1998). The ECVAM Scientific
   Advisory Committee (ESAC) agreed that the results obtained with the
   EPISKINTM test in the ECVAM international validation study on in vitro
   tests for skin corrosivity were reproducible, both within and between
   the three laboratories that performed the test. The test proved
   applicable to testing of all the above reported chemical classes of
   different physical forms. The concordances between the skin corrosivity
   classifications derived from the in vitro data and from the in vivo
   data were very good. The test was able to distinguish between corrosive
   and non-corrosive chemicals for all of the chemical types studied; it
   was also able to distinguish between known R35 (UN packing group I) and
   R34 (UN packing groups II & III) chemicals. Based on the outcome of the
   study, the ESAC unanimously endorsed the statement that the EPISKIN
   test was scientifically validated for use as a replacement for the
   animal test and that this test was ready to be considered for
   regulatory acceptance (10th meeting at ECVAM of the ECVAM Scientific
   Advisory Committee, European Commission, March 1998). (Anon., 1998b). *
   The 27th meeting of the Committee for Adaptation to Technical Progress
   of "Directive 67/548/EEC on the Classification, Packaging and Labelling
   of Dangerous Substances" agreed that the human skin model assays, which
   meet certain criteria, would form part of "Annex V method B.40. Skin
   Corrosion", February 2000 (Commission Directive 2000/33/EC).
   Furthermore, these models are now under consideration for inclusion in
   the OECD Guidelines. Further details on the ECVAM Validation Study are
   available in dbVas of the ECVAM SIS. Last update: May 2000 980316 ECVAM
   Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 3 of 14 ECVAM Protocol for
   EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 Procedure Details, March
   1997 EPISKINTM TEST NOTE: This protocol presents the standard operating
   procedure used in ECVAM Skin Corrosivity Validation Study (1996/1997).
   CONTACT PERSON Dr. David J. Esdaile, Aventis Crop Science E-mail:
   David.Esdaile@aventis.com * The accuracy of the SOP has been confirmed
   in October 2000. 1. Introduction Product Description The EPISKIN-SMTM
   (Standard Model) kit contains 12 reconstructed epidermis units. Each
   reconstructed epidermis unit consists of a human collagen (Types III
   and I) matrix, representing the dermis, covered with a film of Type IV
   human collagen, upon which stratified differentiated epidermis derived
   from human keratinocytes has been laid. Test materials can be applied
   directly to the stratum corneum. Precautions The epidermal cells are
   taken from healthy volunteer donors negative to anti-HIV 1 and 2, and
   to hepatitis C, antibodies, and to hepatitis B antigens. Nevertheless,
   normal handling procedures for biological materials should be followed:
   (a) it is recommended that gloves are worn during handling; and (b)
   after use, the epidermis, the material in contact with it, and the
   culture medium, should be decontaminated (for example, by using a 10%
   solution of bleach or a 1% solution of pyosynthene), prior to disposal.
   Quality Control EPISKIN-SM kits are manufactured according to defined
   quality assurance procedures (certified ISO 9001). All biological
   components of the epidermis and the kit culture medium have been tested
   for the presence of viruses, bacteria and mycoplasma. The quality of
   the final product is assessed by undertaking an MTT cell viability test
   and a cytotoxicity test with sodium dodecylsulphate (SDS). For reasons
   connected with the nature of the product, it is shipped before all of
   the necessary checks have been completed. A release form certifying the
   conformity (or otherwise) of the batch is sent to the user, by fax, on
   the day of delivery of the kit. 2. Materials 2.1. KIT CONTENTS 980316
   ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 4 of 14 ECVAM Protocol
   for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 DESCRIPTION USE 1
   EPISKIN-SM plate containing 12 each reconstructed epidermis is attached
   reconstructed epidermis units (area: to the base of a tissue culture
   vessel with 0.38cm2) an O-ring set and maintained on nutritive agar for
   transport 1 12-well assay plate for assays 1 flask of sterile assay
   medium basic medium for use in assays 1 EPISKIN-SM biopsy punch for
   easy sampling of epidermis 1 lot of "MTT reagents": 1 flask MTT reagent
   to reconstitute 1 flask PBS 10x wash solution to dilute 1 flask 4N NaOH
   to adjust pH of wash solution 1 flask extraction solution of
   isopropanol acid (ready to use) 1 flask negative control (NaCl, 9g/l)
   specific controls for the corrosivity test 1 flask positive control
   (glacial acetic acid) 2.2. MATERIALS NOT PROVIDED WITH THE KIT * 500ml
   wash bottle * 5ml glass tubes with corks * 200µl micropipette *
   Multidispenser micropipette (2.2ml) * 50µl or 100µl positive
   displacement micropipette (for applying thick or viscous samples) *
   Vacuum source and Pasteur pipettes * Small forceps * Timers *
   Microplate reader with filter of 545-595nm and 96-well microplates; or
   spectrophotometer and 1ml microcells * Vortex mixer * Non-sterile
   ventilated cabinet 3. Experimental Procedures and Timing Details of the
   kit and assay procedures should be registered on the reporting form
   (Annex 1). 980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 5 of 14
   ECVAM Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 3.1.
   RECEIPT OF TEST KIT Check the date of dispatch written on the package.
   Before opening the EPISKIN-SM kit: (a) inspect the colour of the agar
   medium used for transport and check that its pH is acceptable: orange
   colour = good; yellow or violet colour = not acceptable; and (b)
   inspect the colour of the temperature indicator to verify that the kit
   has not been exposed to a temperature above 40°C: the indicator changes
   from white to grey at 40°C. In the event of any anomaly, immediately
   contact the Sales Administration Department at SADUC (Tel: +33 78 56 72
   72; Fax: +33 78 56 00 48). Place the assay medium supplied with the
   kits at 2-8°C. Leave the EPISKIN-SM kits in their packaging at room
   temperature until the assays are to be undertaken. 3.2. APPLICATION AND
   RINSING Safety precautions: MTT and corrosive materials are dangerous.
   Work in a non-sterile, ventilated, cabinet, wear protective gloves, and
   a mask and safety glasses, as necessary. Pre-warm the assay medium to
   37°C. An approximate timing for conducting the test procedure is given
   below as a guide. 9.30: proceed with the application of test material
   for the 4-hour samples (a) Fill the appropriate number of wells of an
   assay plate with pre-warmed culture medium (2.2ml per well). Mark the
   plate lids with the application time (4 hours) and the code numbers of
   the chemicals to be tested (1 well per chemical), or negative control
   (3 wells) or positive control (3 wells). (b) Open the EPISKIN-SM kits
   and place an epidermis unit into each prepared well. Mark each
   epidermis unit with the appropriate code number. 9.45: application of
   the products during 4 hours: (c) Add 50µl of test material to each well
   by using the positive displacement pipette. (d) In the case of solids,
   the material should be crushed to a powder, if necessary, and 20mg
   applied evenly to the epidermal surface (with difficult materials, use
   sufficient to cover the epidermal surface); add 100µl NaCl (9g/l
   saline) to ensure good contact with the epidermis. (e) Add 50µl NaCl
   (9g/l saline) to each of the three negative control wells. (f) Add 50µl
   glacial acetic acid to each of the three positive control wells. (g)
   Replace the lid on the plate and incubate for 4 hours (± 5 minutes) in
   a ventilated cabinet at room temperature (18-28°C). Note: The negative
   and positive controls incubated for 4 hours will act as controls for
   all of the incubation times. 10.00: proceed with the application of
   test material for the 1-hour samples (a) Fill the appropriate number of
   wells of an assay plate with pre-warmed culture medium (2.2ml per
   well). Mark the plate lids with the application time (1 hour) and the
   code numbers of the chemicals to be tested (1 well per chemical). (b)
   Open the EPISKIN-SM kits and place an epidermis unit into each prepared
   well. Mark each epidermis unit with the appropriate code number. 980316
   ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 6 of 14 ECVAM Protocol
   for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 10.15: application
   of the products during 1 hour (c) Add 50µl of test material to each
   well by using the positive displacement pipette. (d) In the case of
   solids, apply 20mg and add 100µl of NaCl (9g/l), as described
   previously for the 4-hour samples. (e) Replace the lid on the plate and
   incubate for 1 hour (± 5 minutes) in a ventilated cabinet at room
   temperature (18-28°C). 10.30: proceed with the application of test
   material for the 3-minute samples (a) Prepare the MTT solution
   (0.3mg/ml; enough for 2.2ml per well for the entire assay) and the PBS
   1x wash solution, as indicated in the "MTT reagents" leaflet
   accompanying the test kit. (b) Fill the appropriate number of wells of
   an assay plate with pre-warmed culture medium (2.2ml per well). Mark
   the plate lids with the application time (3 minutes) and the code
   numbers of the chemicals to be tested (1 well per chemical). (c) Open
   the EPISKIN-SM kits and place an epidermis unit into each prepared
   well. Mark each epidermis unit with the appropriate code number. 10.45:
   application of the products during 3 minutes (d) Add 50µl of test
   material to each well by using the positive displacement pipette.
   Proceed well by well at 20-second intervals, with the aid of multiple
   timers (test a maximum of 5 or 6 materials at a time). Ensure that the
   exposure period is exactly 3 minutes for each well (e) In the case of
   solids, apply 20mg and add 100µl of NaCl (9g/l), as described
   previously for the 4-hour samples. (f) Remove the EPISKIN-SM unit and
   rinse thoroughly with PBS 1x solution, to remove all of the test
   material from the epidermal surface. (g) Replace the EPISKIN-SM unit in
   the culture medium. (h) When all of the units have been rinsed: *
   remove the culture medium * place the units on absorbent paper, or
   remove the rest of the PBS from the epidermal surface with a Pasteur
   pipette linked to a vacuum source (be careful not to touch the
   epidermis) * add 2.2ml of the MTT solution (0.3mg/ml) to each well *
   replace the lid on the plate. If the ambient temperature is 20-28°C,
   leave to incubate for 3 hours (± 5 minutes) in a ventilated cabinet at
   room temperature, protected from light . If the ambient temperature is
   below 20°C, then leave to incubate for 3 hours (+ 5 minutes) at
   temperature of 20-28°C, protected from light . An incubator (with or
   without CO2), or a warm location within the laboratory, may be used. It
   is important that all the samples from each exposure time are treated
   identically. 11.15: rinse the 1-hour samples and replace the culture
   medium with 2.2ml of MTT solution (0.3mg/ml), as described above.
   11.45: place 0.85ml of acidified isopropanol into labelled glass tubes
   (one tube corresponding to one well of the tissue culture plate). Label
   each tube with the name of the test material and the incubation time.
   13.45: rinse the 4-hour samples and replace the culture medium with
   2.2ml of MTT solution 980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118
   page 7 of 14 ECVAM Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed
   May 2000 (0.3mg/ml), as described above. 3.3. FORMAZAN EXTRACTION At
   the end of each incubation with MTT (14.15, 14.45 and 17.00), the
   formazan extraction should be undertaken: (a) place the units on
   absorbent paper (b) remove the MTT solution from each well (c) take a
   biopsy of the epidermis by using the biopsy punch, by placing the
   epidermis unit on the plate lid (d) separate the epidermis from the
   collagen matrix with the aid of forceps, and place both parts
   (epidermis and collagen matrix) into the acidified isopropanol (e) cork
   each tube and mix thoroughly by using a vortex mixer (f) ensure that
   the acidified isopropanol is in good contact with all of the material
   (g) store at room temperature overnight, protected from light. 3.4.
   ABSORBANCE/OPTICAL DENSITY MEASUREMENTS Following the formazan
   extraction (left overnight): (a) mix each tube by using a vortex mixer
   (b) let the solution settle for 1-2 minutes, so that any cell fragments
   do not interfere with the absorbance readings (c) place a 200µl sample
   from each tube into the wells of a 96-well plate (labelled
   appropriately) (d) read the optical densities (OD) of the samples at a
   wavelength between 545nm and 595nm using acidified isopropanol solution
   as the blank. (e) record the results on the template given in Annex 2.
   Note: if a spectrophotometer is used rather than a plate reader, place
   a 500µl sample from each tube and 500µl isopropanol (not acidified) in
   a 1ml microcell and read the OD at 545-595nm using the acidified
   isopropanol solution as the blank. 4. Calculations of viability
   percentages and acceptability criteria Record all calculations on the
   Data Report Form (Annex 3). Viability (%) = 100 x (OD test
   material/mean OD negative control at 4 hours) (a) calculate the mean OD
   of the 3 negative control values: this corresponds to 100% viability.
   Based on historical data the minimum acceptable mean OD for negative
   controls is 0.115 (mean ± 2SD). The maximum acceptable mean OD for the
   negative control is 0.4 (to allow for incubations at 28°C). (b)
   calculate the mean OD of the 3 positive control values: the % viability
   of the positive control is calculated relative to the mean negative
   control. Based on historical data (mean ±2SD), the acceptable mean
   percentage viability range for positive controls is 0-20%. (c)
   calculate the % viability following exposure to the test material at
   each incubation time as the OD expressed as a percentage of the mean
   negative control value. (d) assay acceptability criteria: for an assay
   to be acceptable, the mean positive and negative control values should
   fall within the ranges given above. In those cases where the mean
   values fall outside the range, the assay should be repeated, except in
   cases where the same chemical has been tested on at least two other
   occasions (with acceptable control values) and the results of all of
   the tests give the same corrosivity classification. 980316 ECVAM
   Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 8 of 14 ECVAM Protocol for
   EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 4.1 INTERPRETATION OF
   TEST RESULTS The test results are interpreted on the basis of the
   exposure time needed to cause cell viability to decrease below 35%. The
   determination of the packing group is summarized in the following
   table: Classification Packing group Criteria for In Vitro
   interpretation UN Corrosive class I If viability < 35% after 3 min
   exposure Corrosive class II If viability 35% after 3 min exposure and <
   35% after 1 hour exposure Corrosive class III If viability 35% after 1
   hour exposure and < 35% after 4 hours exposure Non corrosive If
   viability 35% after 4 hours exposure EU Corrosive class R35 If
   viability < 35% after 3 min exposure Corrosive class R34 If viability
   35% after 3 min exposure and < 35% after 4 hours exposure Non-corrosive
   If viability 35% after 4 hours exposure In cases where the viability
   values from individual skin units are highly variable, causing
   different corrosivity classifications, the chemical should normally be
   re-tested. If one or more sets of data are considered to be incorrect
   (or inconsistent with data from other runs), the results should be
   replaced by those generated in a repeat run. In cases where the
   viability values fall below 35%, but longer exposure times give values
   of >35% (or values higher than the earlier time point), the results
   should be considered to be doubtful. The run should normally be
   repeated. 980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 9 of 14
   ECVAM Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 Annex
   1 980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 10 of 14 ECVAM
   Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 Annex 2
   980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 11 of 14 ECVAM
   Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 Annex 3
   980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 12 of 14 ECVAM
   Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000 Annex 4
   980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page 13 of 14 ECVAM
   Protocol for EpiSkin Drafted March 1997, confirmed May 2000
   Bibliographic References * Anon. (1991) Code of Federal Regulation.
   Method of Testing Corrosion to the Skin. Transportation Title 49, Part
   173.136, Appendix A. Office of the Federal Register, National Archives
   and Records Administration, Washington D.C., USA. * Anon. (1992) OECD
   Guideline for Testing of Chemicals, No. 404: Acute Dermal
   Irritation/Corrosion. 6pp. Organization for Economic Cooperation and
   Development, Paris, France. * Anon. (1992) Annex V, part B: Testing
   Methods-Acute Toxicity (skin irritation), to Commission Directive
   92/69/EEC of 31 July 1992, adapting to technical progress for the
   seventeenth time to Council Directive 67/548/EEC on the classification,
   packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. Official Journal of
   the European Communities L 383, pag.113. * Anon. (1995) Skin Irritation
   and Corrosion: Reference Chemicals Data Bank . ECETOC Technical Report
   No. 66, 247 pp. European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of
   Chemicals, Brussels, Belgium. * Anon. (1998a) Statement on the
   scientific validity of the EPISKIN test (an in vitro test for skin
   corrosivity), 10th meeting of ECVAM Scientific Advisory Committee, 31
   March 1998, EC JRC, IHCP, ECVAM, Ispra, Italy. * Anon. (1998b) ECVAM
   News & Views ATLA 26, 278-280. * Anon. (2000) Commission Directive
   2000/33/EC of 25 April 2000 adapting to technical progress for the 27th
   time Council Directive 67/548 EEC on the classification, packaging and
   labelling of dangerous substances. Official Journal of the European
   Communities L136, p. 90. * Draize J.H., Woodand G. & Calvery H.O.
   (1944) Methods for the study of irritation and toxicity of substances
   applied topically to the skin and mucous membranes. Journal of
   Pharmacology and experimental Therapeutics 82, pp. 377-390. * Fentem,
   J.H., Archer, G.E.B., Balls, M., Botham, P.A., Curren, R.D., Earl,
   L.K., Esdaile, D.J., Holzhütter, H.G. and Liebsch M. (1998) The ECVAM
   international validation study on in vitro tests for skin corrosivity.
   II. Results and evaluation by the Management Team. Toxicology in Vitro
   12, 483-524. * Fentem, J.H. (1999) Validation of in vitro tests for
   skin corrosivity. ALTEX 16, 150-153. * Wittle, E. & Basketter, D.A.
   (1994) In vitro skin corrosivity test using human skin. Toxicology In
   Vitro 8, 861-863. * Worth, A.P., Fentem, J.H., Balls, M., Botham, P.A.,
   Curren, R.D., Earl, L.K., Esdaile, D.J. & Liebsch, M. (1998) An
   evaluation of the proposed OECD testing strategy for skin corrosion.
   ATLA 26, 709-720. 980316 ECVAM Template file: 03-1 Episkin-IP 118 page
   14 of 14 Summary Report of the EPISKIN In Vitro Assay for Assessing
   Dermal Corrosivity Prepared for National Toxicology Program (NTP)
   Interagency Center for the Evaluation of Alternative Toxicological
   Methods (NICEATM) National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
   P.O. Box 12233 Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 Prepared by Dr. Raymond
   Tice and Ms. Karen Haneke Revised by Ms. Ashlee Duncan ILS,
   Inc./Supporting the NICEATM Original Draft: May 13, 1999 Revised: July
   24, 2001 NICEATM EPISKIN Summary Report Original draft 05/13/99,
   Revised 07/24/01 PURPOSE This report focuses on the performance of
   EPISKIN to determine the usefulness and limitations of the assay for
   the identification of potential human corrosive chemicals. This report
   also discusses how the EPISKIN assay compares to the in vivo rabbit
   skin corrosivity test and to other in vitro corrosivity tests (Rat Skin
   Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance [TER], EpiDerm , and Corrositex ).
   The data and assessments in the European Centre for the Validation of
   Alternative Methods (ECVAM) formal validation study on EPISKIN (Barratt
   et al., 1998; Fentem et al., 1998) were reviewed. Additionally, an
   independent analysis of the performance data, based on the information
   provided in Fentem et al. (1998), was conducted. EVALUATION OF
   REGULATORY AND SCIENTIFIC RATIONALE EPISKIN is one of several in vitro
   corrosivity assays evaluated as alternatives to the in vivo rabbit
   corrosivity test by ECVAM in a formal validation study (Fentem et al.,
   1998). EPISKIN is a three-dimensional human skin model that measures
   cell viability. Because it is a human skin model, it may be more
   relevant to assessing human skin corrosivity potential than a test
   based on skin from another species. Also, the mode of application
   (topical) of the test material mimics the route of human exposure.
   EPISKIN has been approved by the ECVAM Scientific Advisory Committee
   for use in corrosivity testing in Europe (Balls and Corcelle, 1998) and
   EPISKIN has also been evaluated and approved for its intended use by
   the European Scientific Committee for Cosmetic Products and Non-food
   Products (SCCNFP) (Anon., 1999). This method has been adopted for
   regulatory use within the European Union (EU) by the European
   Commission (Anon., 2000). EVALUATION OF THE TEST METHOD A standard kit
   contains media, reagents, and 12 epidermis units. The epidermis units
   provided in the test kit are comprised of a reconstructed epidermis and
   a functional stratum corneum. For use in corrosivity testing, the test
   material (liquids: 50 µL; solids: 20 mg) is topically applied to an
   epidermis unit for 3, 60, and 240 minutes. Per test compound, one
   epidermis unit is needed for each of the three test periods. Cell
   viability is assessed by measuring mitochondrial activity using the MTT
   (a tetrazolium salt) assay. A 35% decrease in cell viability is used to
   indicate a potential for human corrosivity. The scientific and
   mechanistic basis of the test and the rationale for using a 35%
   decrease in cell viability as the criterion for identifying potential
   human corrosivity were not discussed by Fentem et al. (1998). However,
   mechanistically, corrosivity is associated with cell death. 1 NICEATM
   EPISKIN Summary Report Original draft 05/13/99, Revised 07/24/01
   EVALUATION OF TEST METHOD DATA QUALITY Only limited validation test
   data are available on EPISKIN . In the single published validation
   study by Fentem et al. (1998), ECVAM evaluated 60 chemicals. The
   chemical selection procedure was described in sufficient detail by
   Barratt et al. (1998). The main criterion for including chemicals in
   the study was that their corrosivity classification (C= corrosive; NC =
   noncorrosive) was based on unequivocal animal data (Barratt et al.,
   1998). The ECVAM validation chemical test set included organic acids
   (6C/5NC), organic bases (7C/3NC), neutral organics (9NC), phenols
   (2C/3NC), inorganic acids (6C/1 NC), inorganic bases (2C/2NC),
   inorganic salts (1C/2NC), electrophiles (3C/5NC), and soaps/surfactants
   (3NC). Despite the small numbers of chemicals in some categories, ECVAM
   concluded that the set of test chemicals represented the best possible
   group for evaluating the performance characteristics of the in vitro
   assays, given the limited availability of unequivocal animal data
   (Barratt et al., 1998). Each chemical was tested three times by each of
   three different laboratories. The tests were stated to have been
   conducted in the "spirit" of GLP (Fentem et al., 1998). A formal audit
   of the ECVAM data by a Quality Assurance Unit was not conducted;
   however, it was stated that all data submitted by the participating
   laboratories were verified against the original data sheets by ECVAM
   staff on at least three separate occasions. EVALUATION OF TEST METHOD
   PERFORMANCE For this summary report, an analysis was conducted, similar
   to the performance analysis conducted for the ICCVAM Peer Review of
   Corrositex ; the current analysis evaluated the performance
   characteristics of the EPISKIN assay against the corresponding in vivo
   rabbit corrosivity data. The database used in the EPISKIN evaluation
   consisted of data from the ECVAM validation study only; other data were
   not located. For ease of comparison, chemicals evaluated in the EPISKIN
   assay were classified into the same chemical and product class
   designations used in the Corrositex evaluation. A weight-of-evidence
   approach was used for classifying discordant results within or between
   laboratories; in instances where discordant results could not be
   resolved (i.e., there was an equal number of positive and negative
   calls), the chemical was eliminated from inclusion in the performance
   calculations. Based on the database of 60 chemicals and chemical
   mixtures used in the validation study (Table 1), EPISKIN had an
   accuracy of 83% (50/60 chemicals or chemical mixtures), a sensitivity
   of 82% (23/28 chemicals or chemical mixtures), and a specificity of 84%
   (27/32 chemicals or chemical mixtures). Furthermore, EPISKIN was able
   to distinguish between known R35/I and R34/II & III chemicals1. Based
   on these data, ECVAM concluded that EPISKIN was valid for 1 UN packing
   group classifications I, II, and III are assigned based on the capacity
   of a chemical, when tested on the intact skin of rabbits, to produce
   skin corrosion following exposure intervals of 3 minutes, 1 hour, or 4
   hours, respectively (Fentem et al., 1998). EU regulations require
   classification of chemicals according to certain risk phases, such as
   those assigned based on whether the chemical causes corrosion following
   a 3-minute application (R35  "causes severe burns"; analogous to
   packing group I) or 4 hours (R34  "causes burns"; analogous to packing
   groups II and III) (Barratt et al., 1998; Fentem et al., 1998). 2
   NICEATM EPISKIN Summary Report Original draft 05/13/99, Revised
   07/24/01 use as a replacement for the in vivo rabbit skin test for
   distinguishing between corrosive and noncorrosive chemicals for all of
   the chemical classes studied (Fentem et al., 1998; Balls and Corcelle,
   1998). Because of the relatively small numbers of chemicals evaluated
   in some chemical classes (i.e., cleaners and detergents), definitive
   conclusions as to the adequacy of EPISKIN for some classes of chemicals
   were difficult to make with a high degree of confidence. Additionally,
   no assessment could be made with respect to mixtures. However, it was
   stated that taking into account the relative simplicity of the
   mechanism of action of corrosives, this method would be generally
   applicable across all chemical classes (Fentem et al., 1998).
   EVALUATION OF TEST METHOD RELIABILITY (REPEATABILITY/ REPRODUCIBILITY)
   The inter- and intra-laboratory reliability of EPISKIN was evaluated in
   the ECVAM validation study (Fentem et al., 1998). In each laboratory,
   each chemical was tested three times using three different batches of
   EPISKIN . Intra- and inter-laboratory reliability was evaluated using a
   relative mean square diagram (determined using a two-way ANOVA with
   laboratory and experiments as factors), scatter diagrams to assess the
   possibility of divergence between results obtained in different
   laboratories, and range diagrams to summarize the overall performance
   of the tests. Of the 60 chemicals tested, 42 gave the same corrosivity
   classification in all three experiments in all three laboratories. In
   seven cases, the median results for the three laboratories gave
   identical predictions. In only three cases did one laboratory give
   results that were consistently in a different classification category
   than those from the other laboratories. In an additional three cases,
   the median result from one laboratory was in a different category than
   those from the other laboratories, and in five cases, chemicals gave
   results that crossed the classification boundaries in more than one
   laboratory. Although there were differences for some chemicals in calls
   between experiments within and between laboratories, ECVAM concluded
   that EPISKIN met the criteria agreed by the Management Team concerning
   acceptable intra- and inter-laboratory reproducibility (Fentem et al.,
   1998). Due to the lack of quantitative data, by experiment and
   laboratory, for individual chemicals in the published studies, no
   independent evaluation of repeatability or reproducibility for EPISKIN
   could be conducted. However, after reviewing the intra- and
   inter-laboratory evaluations conducted by ECVAM, it was concluded that
   the analyses were appropriate and that the conclusions were accurate. 3
   NICEATM EPISKIN Summary Report Original draft 05/13/99, Revised
   07/24/01 Table 1. Performance of the EPISKIN Assay in Predicting
   Corrosivity/Noncorrosivity Compared to In Vivo Findings (Fentem et al.,
   1998) Accuracy Sensitivity Specificity Chemical or Product Class Number
   of Chemicals % Number % Number % Number Overall 60 83 (50/60) 82
   (23/28) 84 (27/32) Organic and Inorganic Acids and Bases 1 41 78
   (32/41) 81 (21/26) 73 (11/15) Organic and Inorganic Bases and Base
   Mixtures 2 14 64 (9/14) 60 (6/10) 75 (3/4) Organic and Inorganic Acids
   and Acid Mixtures 20 85 (17/20) 100 (11/11) 67 (6/9) Amines 10 60
   (6/10) 57 (4/7) 67 (2/3) Inorganic Bases and Base Mixtures 4 75 (3/4)
   67 (2/3) 100 (1/1) Acid Derivatives 7 86 (6/7) 80 (4/5) 100 (2/2)
   Surfactants 5 80 (4/5) NA (0/0) 80 (4/5) Industrial Chemicals 10 100
   (10/10) 100 (1/1) 100 (9/9) Cleaners and Detergents 1 100 (1/1) NA
   (0/0) 100 (1/1) 1 This chemical class includes chemicals from the
   following chemical classes: organic and inorganic bases and base
   mixtures, organic and inorganic acids and acid mixture, and acid
   derivatives 2 This chemical class includes amines, inorganic bases, and
   base mixtures. 4 NICEATM EPISKIN Summary Report Original draft
   05/13/99, Revised 07/24/01 OTHER SCIENTIFIC REVIEWS In March 1999, a
   search of the open literature was conducted to locate additional
   EPISKIN studies. Six databases (Medline, Toxline, Embase, Biosis, Caba,
   and LifeSci) were searched using the key terms "Episkin", and "Epi"
   within one word of "skin". The search found no additional relevant
   studies conducted with EPISKIN . In May 2001, another search was
   conducted to locate additional EPISKIN studies. Four databases (PubMed,
   Web of Science, Toxline, and Current Contents Connect) were searched
   using the same search strategy and no additional relevant studies were
   found. OTHER CONSIDERATIONS The EPISKIN kit contains all of the
   necessary materials to conduct the test and does not require additional
   preparation. No animals are used in this test. ECVAM concluded that,
   compared to the in vivo test method, EPISKIN costs less to perform
   (Fentem et al., 1998). The cost for conducting EPISKIN is reported by
   L'OrÈal Recherche (e-mail communication from Odile de Silva, L'OrÈal
   Recherche) to be approximately $450 per kit (Table 2). When compared to
   other in vitro corrosivity test methods, the cost of EPISKIN is stated
   to be greater than that of the Corrositex and EpiDerm assays and
   somewhat less than the Rat Skin TER (Fentem et al., 1998). However,
   currently, the EPISKIN kit is not commercially available. The time
   needed to conduct the EPISKIN assay is greater than the Corrositex
   assay, comparable to the EpiDerm assay, and less than the Rat Skin TER
   assay. RELATED ISSUES Refinement, Reduction, and Replacement Since the
   method is designed as a replacement for animals, EPISKIN would clearly
   reduce the requirement for animal testing for corrosivity. Therefore,
   it has the potential to eliminate the use of animals for the
   determination of corrosivity. If used in an integrated approach,
   EPISKIN provides for reduction and refinement of animal use. Comparison
   to Other In Vitro Assays General comparative information on the TER,
   EPISKIN , and Corrositex assays is provided in Tables 2 through 5. 5
   NICEATM EPISKIN Summary Report Original draft 05/13/99, Revised
   07/24/01 Table 2. General Comparison of the Rat Skin TER, EPISKINTM,
   EpiDermTM, and Corrositex Assays EpiDermTM Rat Skin TER EPISKINTM
   (prediction model B) (prediction Corrositex model 2) Test Method
   Description Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable
   Adequacy/Completeness Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable of
   Protocol Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Usefulness for Assessing
   (Botham et al., Acceptable (Fentem et al., (Liebsch et al., (ICCVAM,
   Corrosivity/Non- 1992; 1995; 1998) 2000) 1999) corrosivity Fentem et
   al., 1998) Usefulness for Not Acceptable Can group as UN packing Not
   Acceptable Acceptable Determining Packing (Fentem et al., group II/III
   or I (Fentem et al., (Liebsch et al., (ICCVAM, Groups 1998) 1998)a
   2000) 1999) Acceptable Acceptable Repeatability and (Botham et al.,
   Acceptable (Fentem et al., Acceptable (Fentem et al., Reproducibility
   1992; 1995; 1998) (Liebsch et al., 1998; ICCVAM, Fentem et al., 2000)
   1999) 1998) Replaces animal Refines and use when used as Replaces
   animal use when used a stand-alone Animal Use Refinement, reduces
   animal Refines and as a stand-alone test. test. Reduction, and use when
   used as reduces animal Replacement a stand-alone test Refines and
   reduces animal use use when used Refines and Considerations or in an
   when used in an integrated in an integrated reduces animal integrated
   testing testing strategy. testing strategy. use when used in strategy.
   an integrated testing strategy. Cost ~$500-850/test ~$450/test kitb
   ~$200/test ~$300/test chemical chemical Study duration 2 work-days 1
   work-day 1 work-day 4 hr/chemical a Since the performance of EPISKIN
   was not assessed for distinguishing between UN packing groups II and
   III, all R34 classifications would be conservatively classified as UN
   packing group II. b One to three chemicals may be tested per test kit;
   however, it is recommended by the supplier that each test chemical be
   assayed using 3 different skin batches/kits which equates to a total
   cost of ~$430/ test chemical. 6 NICEATM EPISKIN Summary Report Original
   draft 05/13/99, Revised 07/24/01 Table 3. General Comparison of the Rat
   Skin TER, EPISKIN , EpiDerm , and Corrositex Assays Based on an ICCVAM
   Weight-of-Evidence Approach by Chemical using Data from the ECVAM and
   other Validation Studies (Fentem et al., 1998; ICCVAM, 1999; Liebsch et
   al., 2000) Rat Skin TER EPISKIN EpiDermTM
