http://telsql1.cpuc.ca.gov

   Home Log Off Electronic Filing Program Home Page

   Electronic Filing Program Home Page


   Welcome to the California Public Utilities Commission’s Electronic
   Filing Program.  This program is for telecommunications utilities use
   only.   Users must be authorized representatives of the utilities.  For
   a current copy of the user manual, click here

                        undercon.gif (293 bytes) NEWS

   [globul1a.gif] Two new features are added to this program:

    1. If you provide data in the adjustment field(s), a memo note will be
       generated after confirmation requesting you to provide an
       explanation of up to 250 characters.
    2. There is a "Auto Calculate" button next to the "Total intrastate
       billings subject to surcharge".   If you click on it after you
       provide the billings amount and applicable adjustments, the program
       will automatically calculate the total amount due including
       interest/penalty due to late filing.   These data are not final
       until confirmed.

   For the current and historical approved surcharge rates, click here.

                                Registration

                           Click above to register
   If you are an authorized carrier, you must have the 4-digit utility
   identification number (U-xxxx-C) and your e-mail address ready.  If
   your authority to operate in California is pending, you must provide
   carrier information, e.g. name, address, etc.  Upon completion, each
   carrier will receive a user name and a password.

                                 Activation

                           Click above to activate
   To activate, you need the assigned user name and password received
   during registration.  This process allows you to establish the user
   profiles and associated passwords for the reporting of surcharges and
   fees.

                                  Surcharge

                      Click above to report surcharges
   This is a restricted access and requires appropriate user name and
   password.  This function allows a carrier to report surcharges online.
   For reporting instructions and deadlines, Click here.

                                    Fees

                         Click above to report fees
   This is a restricted access and requires appropriate user name and
   password. This function allows a carrier to report fees online. For
   reporting instructions and deadlines, Click here.

                                  Profiles

              Click above to revise user profiles and passwords
   This function allows a carrier to revise user profiles and associated
   passwords. The carrier’s legal name, the 4-digit utility identification
   number, and the user name for this program cannot be changed through
   this function. To do so, please contact the Telecommunications Division
   at the address below.

   [glohorsa.gif]

CPUC contact:

   Postal address: California Public Utilities Commission
                   Telecommunications Division
                   Public Programs Branch
                   505 Van Ness Ave
                   San Francisco, CA 94102
        Telephone: (415) 703-2837

   FAX:

                   (415) 703-4405
            E-Mail: telcofiling@cpuc.ca.gov



   Home Log Off Electronic Filing Program Home Page
