http://spec.jpl.nasa.gov

   Molecular Spectroscopy

                           JPL Molecular Spectroscopy

   Molecular spectroscopy is the study of absorption of light by
   molecules. In the gas phase at low pressures, molecules exhibit
   absorption in narrow lines which are very characteristic of the
   molecule as well as the temperature and pressure of its environment. In
   the microwave and long-wavelength infrared regions of the spectrum,
   these lines are due to quantized rotational motion of the molecule. At
   shorter wavelengths similar lines are due to quantized vibration and
   electronic motion as well as rotational motion. The precise frequencies
   of these lines can be fit to quantum mechanical models which can be
   used both to determine the structure of the molecule and to predict the
   frequencies and intensities of other lines. Because this absorption is
   so characteristic, it is very valuable for detecting molecules in the
   Earth's stratosphere, planetary atmospheres, and even the interstellar
   medium. This web site contains very specialized technical information.
   While the general user is welcome to browse its contents, the
   descriptions assume a knowledge of spectroscopy and quantum mechanics.

   The JPL Molecular Spectroscopy Team supports NASA programs in
   Astrophysics, Atmospheric Science, and Planetary Science. Its
   activities include measurement of rotational lines, fitting the lines,
   and preparing a catalog of line positions and intensities. The members
   of the team include Pin Chen, Edward A. Cohen, Timothy J. Crawford,
   Brian J. Drouin, John C. Pearson, and Herbert M. Pickett.

Quick Links

     * Catalog Directory with links
     * Catalog Browser Form
     * New Catalog Additions
     * What's New with Fitting Programs

Guide to anonymous ftp file system for spec.jpl.nasa.gov

     * The sub-directory calpgm contains programs for fitting spectra.
       These programs are copyrighted, but made freely available as a
       service to the spectroscopic community. Some of the details of the
       program are described in H. M. Pickett, "The Fitting and Prediction
       of Vibration-Rotation Spectra with Spin Interactions," J. Molec.
       Spectroscopy 148, 371-377 (1991). Check out the on-line
       documentation.
     * The sub-directory catalog contains files related to the JPL
       spectral line catalog. The file catdir.cat contains the current
       catalog directory in a format described in the written catalog
       description. Line files are designated as ctttttt.cat, where tttttt
       is the zero-filled catalog tag number (the first entry in each line
       of the catdir.cat file). For example, the H atom line list is in
       file c001001.cat. The line files and the directory file are text
       files readable with usual text file system utilities. It is
       recommended that they be transferred under ftp using the ASCII
       option, although binary should work with UNIX hosts. The file
       README contains a short description of the format of catdir.cat and
       the catalog files. A html catalog directory is available which
       provides links to the catalog entries and the associated
       documentation (in either pdf or Tex format). The current literature
       reference for the catalog is H. M. Pickett, R. L. Poynter, E. A.
       Cohen, M. L. Delitsky, J. C. Pearson, and H. S. P. Muller,
       "Submillimeter, Millimeter, and Microwave Spectral Line Catalog,"
       J. Quant. Spectrosc. & Rad. Transfer 60, 883-890 (1998).
     * The sub-directory catalog/doc contains the documentation for the
       line files. Documentation for a particular species follows the line
       file naming convention except that the first character is 'd'
       rather than 'c'. These files are text files in LATeX format. The
       files catdoc.tex, catintro.tex, catdir.tex, and moldoc.tex are the
       files used to generate the catalog descriptive report. The file
       pretex.tex can be used to prepare a single document page.
       Processing the full documentation will generate a document of over
       300 pages! This documentation is also available in postscript form
       as catdoc.ps (734 kbytes). If you have the free Adobe Acrobat
       reader, you can read the document catdoc.pdf (707 kbytes). A pdf
       version of the introductory information about formats, etc., is
       available as catintro.pdf (166 kbyes).
     * The sub-directory catalog/pgm contains utility programs for catalog
       access. The subroutine set catread.f contains code for reading
       files into a FORTRAN program. These routines use random access, and
       assume that the files have a fixed line length within the file.
       Some modification of path names and file open options will be
       required for operating systems other than UNIX. The program
       catlist.f uses catread.f to provide listing of lines for selected
       molecules over a selected frequency range.
     * The sub-directory catalog/archive contains the some of the input
       files for calculating the catalog files

     WARNING: this file system is the living repository of the JPL
     catalog. Recently added files may still be in a preliminary state.
     Caution should be used for species which have a catdir.cat line
     ending with '*', which have been modified since the last published
     edition of the catalog.


    Herb Pickett, e-mail: Herbert.M.Pickett@jpl.nasa.gov
