http://lts.apps.em.doe.gov

   EM Home | Planning & Execution | Cross-Cutting Programs

     U.S. Department of Energy seal U.S. Department of Energy Office of
                                     Environmental Management banner
                 Blank graphic used for page formatting.

    U.S. Department of Energy Office of Long-Term Stewardship seal Office
                       of Long-Term Stewardship banner

                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
       Welcome to DOE's Office of Long-Term Stewardship web site! DOE
       established the Office of Long-Term Stewardship in 1999 to help
        coordinate and communicate long-term stewardship across DOE.
   Coordination is required because the majority of long-term stewardship
      activities are conducted at individual DOE sites and managed by a
   variety of programmatic offices both at headquarters and in the field.
    The establishment of the Office of Long-Term Stewardship reflects the
     importance of long-term stewardship to DOE's strategic objective to
     conduct its missions in a manner that protects human health and the
     environment. This website is designed to communicate the vision and
    mission of the Office of Long-Term Stewardship as well as to provide
      tools for planning for and executing Long-Term Stewardship at DOE
                                   sites.
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
    EM Home button Picture of Granite Marker Plot M, in the Palos Forest
               Preserve, Cook County Forest Preserve District
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                                Vision button
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                               Mission button
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                           Other Resources button
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                               Contacts button
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                    Stewardship Information Center button
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
                   Blank graphic used for page formatting.
     Blank graphic used for page formatting. Picture taken by Robert Del
                                   Tredici
   Granite Marker Plot M, in the Palos Forest Preserve, Cook County Forest
                              Preserve District
    This granite block marks the location of buried radioactive materials
   that include wastes relocated from Enrico Fermi's uranium-graphite pile
       at the University of Chicago. The Fermi pile was built for the
     Manhattan Project in 1942 and achieved the world's first man-made,
      self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction. The caption on the marker
       reads: "CAUTION - DO NOT DIG Buried in this area is radioactive
     material from nuclear research conducted here 1943-1949. The burial
    area is marked by six corner markers 100 ft. from this center point.
    There is no danger to visitors. U.S. Department of Energy 1978." Plot
     M, Palos Forest Preserve, Cook County Forest Preserve District, 20
            miles Southwest of Chicago, Illinois, November 1995.

                              Blue line graphic

   Please direct any comments to Tish O'Conor in the DOE's EM-51 Office of
                           Long-Term Stewardship.
                                 Thank you.

             EM HOME  |  DOE HOME  |  SEARCH  |  WEBSITE OUTLINE
                 FEEDBACK  |  INTERACTIVE MAP  |  WHAT'S NEW
                         PRIVACY AND SECURITY NOTICE

   Last Updated 01/10/2001 (mas)
