http://www.sdc.wa.gov



   [titlebar.jpg]
   [column.jpg]


   Issues -- The Bottom Line This Week in the Senate
   Jan. 28 - Feb. 3

   The Legislature is entering the third week of a sixty-day session.
   This week committees will meet each day.  The Senate is scheduled to
   convene for floor action on Wednesday and Friday.  A Saturday session
   is possible on February 2.

   To find out about the schedule for individual committees, visit the
   Senate Committee Services webpage.

   Find out legislative cutoff dates with the 2002 Session Calendar.

   You can now subscribe to receive legislative schedules by e-mail.
   About this site

   This site is maintained by the Washington State Senate Democratic
   Caucus.

   How to contact SDC

   Privacy Policy

   TVW provides coverage of Washington State Government over cable
   television and through it's website.

                                [tvwlogo.gif]

   Keeping Washington Moving

   [j0223759.gif] During the 2002 session, enacting a comprehensive
   transportation plan will be a top priority.  Last session, Senate
   Democrats proposed transportation reforms that would have lessened
   congestion, spurred the economy, and increased efficiency.  During the
   interim, lawmakers have continued to work on these proposals to gain
   the broadest support possible.  Find out how Senate Democrats are
   leading the push for innovative, effective, bipartisan solutions to our
   transportation crisis.

                                                        Get the full story
   Recent News
   [new2.gif] Lawmakers aim to protect trafficked persons, mail-order
   brides
   New protections are on the horizon for people trafficked into the
   United States and for women who come to this country as mail-order
   brides. Jan. 29, 2002

   Efficiencies, regional plan pave way for long-term transportation fix
   Putting Washington on the road to a long-term transportation solution,
   the Senate today passed legislation aimed at making the state’s
   transportation system more efficient and accountable to taxpayers, and
   allowing central Puget Sound to vote to fix its worst traffic choke
   points. Jan. 26, 2002

   Trade with Cuba subject of legislative hearings
   Nearly $320 million in grains. About $69 million worth of potatoes,
   apples and other fruits and vegetables. And $30 million for lentils and
   peas.  Washington lawmakers this week will discuss how these markets
   could be opened to our state’s agricultural products if the United
   States would lift trade restrictions against Cuba. Jan. 24, 2002

   ‘Groundhog Day’ comes early in Olympia
   Now that the Legislature is back in Olympia just five short months
   after leaving, it feels a little like the movie "Groundhog Day."  The
   challenges we face this session are pretty similar to the ones we faced
   last session – a transportation crisis and a growing budget deficit.
   But we get to take another crack at solving them. Like Bill Murray as
   the movie’s dogged protagonist, we get to keep working until we get it
   right. Find out more in this article by Senator Jim Kastama.  Jan. 22,
   2002



          Home         Senators          Issues           Media
   Copyright 2002 Senate Democratic Caucus    Questions?  Contact the
                                Webmaster
                      Site Updated January 29, 2002
