http://education.gsfc.nasa.gov

   GSFC Education Programs graphic NASA Logo
   NASA's 5 enterprises image map
   [search.jpg]
   FOIA

   CAPTION: FEATURED EDUCATION PROGRAMS

                           National Engineers Week


    National Engineers Week Logo

   This is an annual event that promotes awareness and appreciation of
   engineers and their work. This nationwide effort links over three
   million engineers, teachers, and students

   Lunar & Meteorite Certification Training

   small image of Lunar Sample disk

   Small samples of representative lunar rocks and soils are made
   available for short-term loan to qualified school teachers. Each
   teacher must become a certified user of the disks through a brief
   training program.

                        The Geometry in Space Project


    The Geometry in Space Project

   Geometry in Space Project seeks to awaken an interest in middle school,
   junior high school, and senior high school mathematics and science
   teachers and students and BSU faculty and students in the mathematics
   and science of remote sensing, one of NASA's most successful
   activities.

                        GSFC Engineering Competition
                      GSFC Engineering Competition logo

   Students work in teams of up to six members to solve real world
   engineering challenges encountered in an active NASA mission

   SPACE EXPERIMENT MODULE

   Space Experiment Module or SEM image

   NASA has developed an educational program for kids who want to discover
   more about space by building experiments that may ultimately fly on a
   Space Shuttle. The program is called the Space Experiment Module or SEM

                    SCIENCE EDUCATION RESOURCE DIRECTORY


    Science Education Resource Directory

   Educators are you seeking space science educational resources? Look no
   further. NASA has a new Resource Directory for Space Science.

   Welcome to NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center!
   Programs for the Public
   NASA Education Programs
   Educator Resource Center
   Goddard Visitor Center
   Interaction with the university community
   All of the NASA centers
   Look here for new images and movies
   Every week there is a new science question of the week that will be
   answered the following week
   Looking for a past featured Program? Look here
   join one of the GSFC listservs for your area
   Placement Forms
   Find out what is going on in your state

   image of NASA"s enterprises

   Earth Science description image

   Space Science definition image

   Aero Space definition image

   Human exploration and developmnet of space definition image

   Biological and physical research definition image

   Author: Robert E. Gabrys
   Curator: Shane Keating
   Comments and Questions
   Last Updated:1/25/02

   NASA Privacy Statement, Disclaimer,
   and Accessibility Certification
