http://shelby.senate.gov

   black border Senator Richard C. Shelby Alabama Scene

   About the Senator Legislation Press Services Resources
   In the News [cleardot.gif]

   Senator Richard C. Shelby Welcome to my virtual office on the World
   Wide Web. I appreciate you taking the time to visit. On my web site,
   you will find extensive information on my many activities in the United
   States Senate, the important consituent services I provide to the state
   of Alabama, and much more.

   I hope that you will find this site useful and informative. The
   Internet is a powerful educational tool, and I encourage you to further
   research the work of your legislators and the important issues facing
   our country. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to
   write or email me. Thank you for taking the time to visit.

   Senator Richard Shelby
   senator@shelby.senate.gov

   Issue Spotlight

   Health-Care Reform

       In recent years, health-care costs have risen astronomically. In
   fact, national health expenditures now represent over 15 percent of our
   gross domestic product. We must ensure that Americans continue to have
   access to affordable, quality health care. I oppose the use of massive
   regulations to achieve this goal, because they would likely result in
   higher taxes, larger deficits, and higher premiums. I do not believe
   that health-care reform should become an opportunity to expand the size
   of the federal government or raise taxes on the American people.
   Instead, rising costs can be controlled using competition and free
   market principles, without reducing the quality of care currently
   provided.
   By stimulating increased consumer choice and competition, we can
   decrease health-care costs while increasing efficiency. Everyone should
   be given freedom of choice in their health insurance plans. Instead of
   accepting the insurance plan provided by an employer, consumers would
   be able to choose between different types of plans, including Medical
   Savings Accounts (MSAs), Health Maintenance Organizations, and
   traditional fee-for-service options. In the face of this open
   competition, insurance carriers and health-care providers would have
   substantial incentives to improve the quality of their products and
   rein in prices.
   MSA's also provide an excellent opportunity to increase competition in
   the marketplace. Under an MSA plan, individuals would purchase high
   deductible insurance plans and make tax deductible contributions to an
   MSA to be used for routine medical expenses. Individual consumers would
   gain a larger stake in spending decisions and enter directly into the
   health-care market. MSAs would encourage individuals to search for the
   best services available for their limited funds, causing a
   corresponding drop in prices as health-care providers begin competing
   for customers. I believe tax deductible MSAs should be available to
   everyone, thereby reducing costs adn making insurance affordable to
   more people.
   No single solution will solve all of the health-care problems in this
   country. However, each of these reforms would preserve personal choice
   adn the high quality of medical services available in the Unitede
   STates, while stemming the rising costs of care. Rest assured that I
   will keep your opinions in mind as the Senate continues to debate
   health-care reform.

                          Subsribe to my newsletter

   Privacy

   View my Privacy Policy.

  U.S. Senate Calendar
  Border

         The Senate will next convene on Monday, February 4, 2002:
           * The Senate will convene on Monday, February 4th, at 1:00 pm and be
             in a period of morning business until 2:00 p.m.
           * At 2:00 pm the Senate will resume consideration of the Daschle
             substitute amendment #2698 regarding economic security to H.R. 622,
             the Adoption Tax Credit Act.
           *

  Border

                      Press Releases of Richard Shelby

   Date      Title
   01/28/02  SHELBY ANNOUNCES "RENEWAL COMMUNITY" DESIGNATION FOR GREENE
             AND SUMTER COUNTIES
   01/28/02  SHELBY ANNOUNCES "RENEWAL COMMUNITY" DESIGNATION FOR MOBILE
   01/28/02  SHELBY ANNOUNCES "RENEWAL COMMUNITY" DESIGNATION FOR ALABAMA
             COUNTIES
   01/10/02  SEN. SHELBY (R-ALA.) COMMENTS ON ANNISTON ENVIRONMENTAL
             CONCERNS

                               [cleardot.gif]

   Sen. Shelby's Media Center

   Article 2 Panels to Probe Attacks Sleuthing
   Article from the Washington Times

   Article Air Standards Decisions Pose Changes for State
   Article from the Birmingham News

   Article Shelby Says Terrorism War Will Be Long
   Article from the Montgomery Advertiser

   Article Shelby Offers Economic Help to Area
   Article from the Alexander City Outlook

   Article Shelby, Staffers Return to Hart Building Offices
   Article from the Birmingham News

   Article Shelby Hits Road, Learns What's on Voters' Minds
   Article from the Birmingham News

   TV: For the week of January 28, 2001:

   Television Appearance On Tuesday at 8:00 p.m. CST, President Bush will
   be delivering the State of the Union Address.

   Television Appearance TBA

   Television Appearance TBA

                                  About the
 Senator  •  Legislation  •  Press  •  Services  •  Resources  •  Contac
                                    t Me

   Government and State
   Link to FirstGov
   Link to AlaWeb
   Audio and Visual Resources
   Link to CSPAN.org
