http://religiousfreedom.house.gov

home

    [space.gif]

                    Religious Freedom Amendment - Bringing Prayer Back Into Schools
                                            September 1999


   The Text
   Fact Sheets
   Reading Room
   Q and A
   Press Releases
   Testimonies
   Legal Analysis
   Viewpoints
   Congressional
   Endorsing Groups
   Opinion Polls
   The Process
   Cosponsors
   Committee Action
   Supreme Court
   Other Links
   Comments
   [space.gif]
   Istook to Reintroduce Constitutional Amendment
   Washington, D.C. - Wednesday, Congressman Ernest Istook (R-OK) will
   reintroduce the Religious Freedom Amendment. Istook will make the
   announcement at a pro-family rally on the Capitol steps sponsored by
   the Religious Freedom Coalition, a group headed by William J. Murray,
   son of Madalyn Murray O'Hair and one of the original plaintiffs in the
   1963 Supreme Court case which outlawed state-sanctioned prayer in
   public schools.

   Final Vote on Religious Freedom Amendment
   H.J. Res. 78 had a majority of the votes in the House of
   Representatives, but failed to attain the necessary two-thirds of the
   House of Representatives to amend the Constitution. See How your
   Representative Voted!

   Majority Whip, Amendment Author Announce: Historic Religious Freedom
   Vote Set
   The U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a proposed religious
   freedom constitutional amendment on June 4th, Majority Whip Tom DeLay,
   (R-TX), and Rep. Ernest Istook, (R-OK), confirmed today.

   Istook Praises School Prayer Petition Effort
   Today, the U.S. House will vote for the first time since 1971 on a
   constitutional amendment to restore voluntary school prayer and
   safeguard religious freedoms. Yesterday, petitions with more than a
   million signatures in favor of such an amendment were delivered to the
   lawn of the U.S. Capitol.

                               [together.gif]


   Special Features

   Online Questionnaire
   We'd like to know what you think. The online questionnaire presents
   some recent court cases regarding religious expression and freedom and
   asks for your opinion.

   House Floor Speeches
   June 4, 1998 - HOUSE FLOOR DEBATE ON RELIGIOUS FREEDOM AMENDMENT!
   May 12, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Blunt, Congressman Dickey, and
   Congressman Istook
   May 6, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Kingston and Congressman Istook
   May 5, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman W. Jones
   April 29, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Traficant
   April 28, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Souder and Congressman Istook
   March 31, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Blunt, Congressman Jones,
   Congressman Campbell, and Congressman Istook.
   March 24, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Istook
   March 10, 1998 - Remarks by Congressman Bishop and Congressman Istook

                                 [seal.gif]

   This page hass been accessed [WWWCount?religiousfreedom_register] times
                             since May 12,1998.
                                  [mb1.gif]
   The Religious Freedom Amendment WWW site is maintained by the Office of
   Congressman Istook, U.S. House of Representatives. Please feel free to
            send comments or suggestions on our web site design.
