http://atm.geo.nsf.gov

                         Welcome to the NSF Geosciences
                           The Unidata Program Center
                      Integrated Earth Information Server

   This World Wide Web-based (WWW) Server is under construction and may
   change drastically from time to time. It contains references to other
   Unidata-based servers some of which are extremely popular network
   resources and therefore sometimes overloaded and inaccessible.

                   IEIS for a Global Vision [sm_montage.gif]

   This server is a prototype Integrated Earth Information Server (IEIS,
   as in eyes on the globe). It is built on the infrastructure provided by
   the nation-wide Unidata Internet Data Distribution (IDD) network, in
   which participating universities have established information servers
   containing a range of earth-related data.

   Perhaps the best recent example of an IEIS product is the "Global
   Montage" (seen in miniature above) which the SSEC at the University of
   Wisconsin creates every six hours in graphic form and as an animation
   of the last week's images (2 MB) .

   IEIS make information available in a variety of forms; the list below
   illustrates some of these:
     * [sm_cont.gif] current local weather maps and bulletins (accessible
       only to NSF staff and visitors);
     * [sm_wxke.gif] , instructional materials to complement the data

   The information represented by the icons above is the result of a
   coordinated national effort among the roughly 125 universities that
   currently comprise the Unidata community. For more information on the
   Unidata Program click here.

How the IEIS Work

   The information that appears on an IEIS arrives via the experimental
   nation-wide Unidata Internet Data Distribution (IDD) network, which
   automatically delivers real-time environmental observations from a
   variety of observing systems around the globe to servers at Unidata
   universities. At the heart of each server on each campus (and on this
   IEIS computer at NSF's Atmospheric Science Division) is a Unidata Local
   Data Manager (LDM), which captures the data and stores them as each
   site wishes. Sites may then use Unidata analysis and display programs
   to transform the data into easy-to-understand, familiar forms and to
   combine them with environmental data from other sources. As in the
   examples above, these form can then be made generally available on a
   university IEIS.

Providing Information As It Happens

   Since this set of pages was established several years ago, Unidata
   universities have been establishing IEIS around the country to provide
   up-to-date environmental information. These sites have far exceeded
   what was original set up on this server as a demonstration of what is
   possible. The place to go now for demonstrations is to the university
   servers available under Servers in the Unidata Comminity.

                           Educational Infrastructure

   As the IEIS prototypes evolved, the environmental information have been
   augmented with more instructional materials and lesson plans. The
   intent is to make the observational data immediately useful in
   educational programs at all levels. Regional science education
   coalitions, such as the one in Michigan, are already producing
   classroom materials for use with the real-time environmental
   information in earth science and mathematics classes. The University of
   Illinois has created a set of instructional modules for meteorology as
   part of their Weather World 2010. Much of this work was done in
   collaboration with Northwestern University on the COVIS Project.
   Another curriculum development project is the The Remote Sensing Core
   Curriculum..

                                Acknowledgements

   The Unidata Program Center (UPC), operated by the University
   Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR), is sponsored by the
   Atmospheric Sciences Division (ATM) of the National Science Foundation
   (NSF).

   The hardware for this IEIS was donated to Unidata by Sun Microsystems
   to show how Unidata systems can be used for scientific research and
   education. Please read our acknowledgments document to see how many
   organizations have contributed to this effort.

   Prepared by Sally Bates , and Ben Domenico .

   For questions about Unidata, see the Unidata WWW server or contact
   support@unidata.ucar.edu
   Last updated on Thu Jul 7 16:46:44 MDT 1994


    ben@unidata.ucar.edu
