http://www3.attorneygeneral.gov

                                                 [net.gif]

                          Current Discussion Groups

                 * CLI Net
                 * Medical Legal Advisory Board on Child Abuse
                 * ITL Web Presentation Group
                 * OAG Law School Clinical Programs
                 * Mylan Litigation Support Conference
                 * OAG Legal Issues

               Discussion Group FAQ

   What is an OAGnet discussion group?

   An OAGnet discussion group is an online discussion group environment
   where the participants have the ability to "post" concepts and ideas
   into a virtual discussion.  The participant can either post new
   messages under different topic headings or respond to messages that
   have been posted by another participant?

   How do I get into a discussion group?

   The first thing you would do is click on one  of the links above to go
   to the discussion group Intro page.  To enter an OAGnet discussion
   group you must be registered within our discussion group system.  For
   help with registering for a discussion group click here.  If you have
   previously registered you only need to enter your Username and
   password.  If you registered but have forgotten either your username
   and/or password or have any other questions regarding the discussion
   groups please contact Dennis Guzy Jr. at 717-772-2010 or
   djg@attorneygeneral.gov

   What do I do when I get there?

   Well, the primary function of discussion groups is to allow you to
   interact with other people that have an interest in a particular
   topic.  You will find yourself doing the following:

    1. Asking a question
    2. Answering a question
    3. Offering an idea
    4. Responding to an idea

   Each discussion group has topics within it that are referred to as
   "forums."  These "forums" dictate the scope of the discussion.  Each
   "forum" then has messages posted [window1_small.jpg] within it.  Each
   message can also have a sub-topics (which you and others using the
   forum control) which are called "threads." When you post a new message
   on a sub-topic that was not previously listed you will be creating a
   new "thread."  The image to the right shows a discussion group with
   forums and threads.  Click on the image to the right to see a larger
   version


   [windows4.jpg] Creating a new Thread

   To create a new thread click on the words "new thread."  You will see a
   box like the one to the right.  You will need to enter the topic for
   the thread that you would like to create.  You will also need to select
   which forum that you would like your new thread to be included in.
   Once you have picked a topic and forum click on the OK button .

   Once you have clicked ok you will see the box shown below.  You will
   then type in a subject (optional) and the message that you would like
   posted.  You can then click on post or click the preview button if you
   would like to see your message before it is actually posted.  Once a
   message is posted you can delete it and also edit it if you choose to
   do so.  Those options are available to you when you read the message
   within the thread.

   [windows5.jpg]

   Reply to a message in a thread

   To reply to a message simply click on the word "reply" while reading a
   message and you will see the same box that appears above.  You can then
   type your message and click on preview or post as desired.
