http://www.info.gov/us_flag.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

   Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

             How To Order A Flag That Has Flown Over the Capitol
   You can purchase a US flag that has flown over the United States
   Capitol building in Washington, D.C., by ordering it from your US
   Senator or US Representative. In fact, this is the only way to purchase
   one of these flags.

   Certificate of authenticity. You may request that your flag be flown on
   a certain date such as a birthday or anniversary. A certificate showing
   it was flown over the Capitol accompanies each flag. If you mention in
   your letter or on your request form that this flag is for any specific
   occasion, that information will be included on the certificate. If you
   are requesting a specific date, please make your request at least 4
   weeks prior to that date.

   Fabric and size of flags. All flags are made in the United States. The
   cotton flags come in two sizes: 3’x5’ or 5’x8’. The nylon flags come in
   the same size as the cotton and one additional size: 4’x6’.

   Prices. According to a survey we recently conducted, the specific
   prices vary from office to office. The prices include only the costs of
   the flag itself, the certificate, and shipping and handling. The
   payment must be a check or money order made payable to the fund
   designated by the specific Congressional office.

   Order information. Most web sites of Representatives and Senators have
   a page devoted to the process for ordering flags from their offices.
   Check for a link to "Constituent Services" or "Services" for the
   ordering information for that office. If you find that the web site
   does not tell how to order a flag, please call the State or field
   office of the member of Congress for the information.

   Additional questions. If you need any additional information or
   assistance about this issue or on other questions about the Federal
   Government’s agencies, programs, and services, please call the National
   Contact Center toll-free at 1-800-688-9889 (800-326-2996 for TTY
   users). It is open for personal assistance from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.,
   eastern time, Monday through Friday, except on Federal holidays.

   Last Updated:  October 26, 2001

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
   Logo of the General Services Administration
