http://helms.senate.gov/Speeches/Reelection/reelection.html


   [clearpixel.gif] [caphome.jpg]

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                                       Statement of Senator Jesse Helms
   [clearpixel.gif] [caphome.jpg]


   Home Biography Constituent Services North Carolina Grants Federal
   Government Speeches Photo Gallery Kids Corner

   [clearpixel.gif]

                              (August 22, 2001)

   Contact: Jimmy Broughton 202-224-5914/919-856-4630

   A few weeks ago, my best friend handed me a clipping quoting a 1973
   statement by a longtime friend of a great many of us, Senator Sam J.
   Ervin, Jr., now deceased.

   Dot Helms suggested instructed may be a better word that I share it
   with you on an appropriate occasion, and this is it.

   It was six days before Christmas in 1973.  Unless he were to run again
   in 1974, Senator Ervin's Senate career would end on January 3, 1975.
   It was on that December day that Senator Ervin issued a public
   statement that ended speculation as to whether he would or wouldn't
   seek reelection.

   Senator Ervin didn't run again in 1974, and he later explained:
   "There's one inescapable reality that no man can ignore, and that is
       that time takes a terrific toll, which is ofan increasing nature
       with those who live many years."
       Then, Senator Ervin added: "I would hate to be in the Senate and
       have to, in Kipling's words, force my heart and nerves and sinew to
       serve their turn long after they're gone."

   Now then: except for the fact that I am now already a few years older
   than Senator Ervin was when he made his December 13, 1973, announcement
   (that he would not run for reelection in 1974) my family has counseled
   me that my situation, today, is not materially different from what
   Senator Ervin said in 1973, "Intellectual honesty compels me to
   confront this inescapable reality" (that if he ran again he would be
   almost 85 in 1980 when his distinguished Senate career would end).

   The point is: I would be 88 if I ran in 2002 -- and was elected and
   lived to finish a sixth term.

   This, my family and I have decided, unanimously, I should not do, and I
   shall not.  That is my formal announcement.

   You see, if my health continues to be good when my present (fifth) term
   ends at the 2002 adjournment sine die of the 107^th Congress  I'll be
   81 years old.

   I will then have served 30 years as a Senator from North Carolina,
   longer than any other Senator elected by the people of North Carolina,
   (and not in my wildest imagination did it ever occur to me that such a
   privilege would ever be mine!)

   To those who may be preparing news reports about this decision that my
   family and I have made, I will genuinely appreciate your considering
   doing me a few favors:
   1) Make clear my gratitude that I have been blessed  since the day I
       arrived in the Senate January 3, 1973 with having had the finest,
       hardest working, most dedicated young people serving with me every
       moment I've been a Senator. They have joined with us because they
       are conservative, God-fearing young people, genuinely willing to
       help all North Carolinians who, in so many instances, have had
       crises in their lives , and who have turned to us for help.
       Without hesitation, and without fail, these young folks (we call
       ourselves the Helms Senate Family) often work around the clock and
       many times through their week-ends to help people needing a helping
       hand.
       It has been they, this Helms Senate Family, who have unfailingly
       made certain that the estimated 150,000 North Carolinians (or more)
       and many citizens from other states who brought their problems to
       us, were served promptly -- with genuine interest in making certain
       that the problems were solved if at all possible.
       As early members of our Senate Family have moved on (to
       responsibilities with other branches of the government, or with
       businesses, or educational institutions) new young people were
       eager to join in our efforts to serve the citizens of our state and
       nation.  What a blessing!
       I  love these young people and all of them have known it whether
       they have served in our offices in Raleigh or Hickory or
       Washington.  Today, their careers are all over the landscape --
       federal  judges, teachers, business leaders, bankers   some have
       gone to theological schools and now some are top advisors to
       President Bush.
       Needless to say, Dot and I have thanked the Lord countless times
       for those remarkable young men and women.
       2) I often shared a commitment with young people -- a commitment I
       made to myself on Election Night 1972.  My commitment that night
       was that I would never, ever fail to meet with a young person or a
       group of young people who wanted to meet me. That 1972 campaign
       enabled me to meet hundreds of young men and women whom I would
       never otherwise have met.
        And, having been the beneficiary of more than 100,000 young
       visitors during the past 29 years, I can assure you that the future
       leadership of our state and nation is in good hands.
       3) And last, but certainly not least, there's no way that I can
       adequately express my gratitude to the thousands of people who
       pitched in and gave their support and prayers in all five of my
       elections to the United States Senate.  Without that help, and the
       prayers of so many, I would never have made it.

   All of this is a long way of saying that I'm not running again, and I
   thank you for letting me have my say.  But let me make myself perfectly
   clear as a former President often said, I have just confirmed
   speculation that I would not seek reelection next.

   But I am, by no means, announcing my "retirement." A great deal of work
   lies ahead of the Senate this fall -- and next year when there will
   much significant legislation.

   (For example, the Senate will be taking up and renewing the Farm Bill
   which comes around every five years, and you don't need me to explain
   how important this particular farm bill will be to farm families all
   across North Carolina.

   In addition, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will consider,
   among other important matters, significant legislation that will set
   the course for the future of America's defense systems.  And, then,
   there is the necessity of monitoring the implementation of the
   Helms-Biden demands reforming the United Nations, which has already
   saved the American taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars.

   In the years left to Dot Helms and me, we want to enjoy more time with
   our children and grandchildren. And, needless to say, Dot and I intend,
   the Lord willing, to be more actively involved in trying to be helpful
   to that remarkable foundation at Wingate.

   I don't know precisely how to say this, but Dot and I hope that, one
   way or another, we can continue as private citizens, to be helpful to
   the great people of North Carolina.

   One thing for sure: we will never forget you and we shall always be
   grateful for all that you have meant to us.

   Thank you, dear friends. God bless you -- and as Ron Reagan always used
   to say: God Bless America.
