http://www.r5.pswfs.gov/summary/summary.html

  [Header]: United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service, Pacific
      Southwest Region at 1323 Club Drive, Vallejo, California, 94592.

  [Header]: Letter to Chief dated 31 December 2001 regarding Sierra Nevada
 Forest Plan Amendment Appeal Decision that is assigned a file code of 1940.

                                Cover Letter
     * Introduction
     * Review of Concerns
     * Immediate Steps
     * Long Term Actions
     * Timeline

                                 Action Plan
     * Introduction
     * Administrative Study
     * Monitoring Plan
     * Review of Concerns
     * Timeline

                              Printable version
     * Word DOC (74KB)

                             Downloads for Word.
                              Requires MS Word

    In your November 16, 2001 appeals decision you stated that: "As I see
   it, the Forest Service's mission is to work with local individuals and
   communities to protect and restore the health of the land. Partly, that
   means finding intelligent, farsighted ways of using some of our natural
     resources. Partly, it means working together to diversify economies
     while putting people to work for the health of the land. We need to
   accomplish our land stewardship goals by looking for creative new ways
    to get needed work done on the land, get products from it, and build
                           communities together."

      Your appeals decision will be the basis for how we will proceed.

   In response to your appeals decision, I propose to immediately initiate
      a broad review of the elements of and basis for the Sierra Nevada
       Forest Plan Amendment and associated Final Environmental Impact
   Statement. In partnership with the Pacific Southwest Research Station,
    I propose to complete the review, implementation refinements, and any
                  amendments, if needed, within 12 months.

   In your appeals decision, you also stated that: "Our central mission is
     to sustain the health, diversity, and productivity of the Nation's
        forest and grasslands to meet the needs of present and future
    generations. Over the last several years we have sought to accomplish
    this goal by building large scale, and sometimes overly prescriptive,
       management direction. I believe local decision makers acting in
   collaboration with interested and affected parties can develop flexible
      solutions that fit specific needs, rather than one-size-fits-all
                                 solutions."

     Your statement clearly establishes a benchmark for our review. Our
     emphasis will be to develop flexible solutions primarily focused on
       improving local decision-making capabilities, while meeting our
              obligations under applicable environmental laws.

    This letter summarizes my thinking as to how the review would proceed
   and amendments to the plan would be made, if needed. After your review
   of these initial thoughts, we will finalize our approach; the enclosed
                    action plan provides further details.

      Our proposed review will focus on the three key elements of your
     appeals decision, but I expect that the scope and substance of the
   review will be broader. For example, I expect to review and assess the
   decision in light of its effects on grazing, recreation, and impacts to
     local communities. I invite your continued suggestions for the work
     that lies ahead, and will confer with other agencies and interested
          parties as I proceed to design and implement the review.

     Some refinements in the decision can be immediately identified and
    implemented, others are identifiable but will require a longer period
   of time to implement, and others must await the outcome of the reviews,
               and if needed, proposed amendments to the plan.

     We intend to apply the principles of adaptive management to further
      refine and adjust implementation of the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan
       Amendment decision. The adaptive management strategy includes a
     comprehensive set of monitoring and research tasks that address the
      five main problem areas (old forest conservation, fire and fuels
   management, aquatic and riparian ecosystem conservation, lower Westside
   hardwood conservation and noxious weed management) of the Sierra Nevada
                       Forest Plan Amendment decision.

   The Plumas/Lassen administrative study also contributes to the adaptive
    management strategy for the entire Sierra Nevada. The Administrative
   Study investigates the response of California spotted owls and elements
    of their habitat to group selection. The study design is complete and
       immediately permits planning and decision making to proceed on
   implementation of group selection on 4,000 acres annually beginning in
   the 2002 field season. The administrative study examines how variables
   (owl populations, prey base, fire behavior, vegetation, and terrestrial
    bird community) respond to three different forest management regimes
    involving varying levels of group selection, Defensible Fuel Profile
   Zones (DFPZ), and area treatments. This work will examine the response
           variables over a range of spatial and temporal scales.

    Additionally, I have decided to establish a small team to review the
     entire record (including the FEIS, the existing record of decision,
    public and agency comments, the appeals and responsive statements) to
        evaluate any needed changes to the record of decision, and if
      necessary, propose them. The team will tentatively consist of the
   following; however, I reserve the right to add additional people to the
      team and will notify you in advance should this become necessary:
     * One Team Leader (Mike Ash)
     * Two District Rangers (Kathleen Morse, Sam Wilbanks)
     * One Regional analyst (Klaus Barber)
     * One representative of the USFS Pacific Southwest Research Station
       (Peter Stine)
     * One writer-editor (Tom Efird)

   This team will have access to the interdisciplinary team for assistance
     and analysis necessary to develop their recommendations. The review
    team's top priority, until their work is complete, will be to assess
   the need for and, if necessary, develop a new record of decision based
      upon the alternatives described within the FEIS and your appeals
     decision. The team and I will share this assignment as our highest
                                  priority.

       I will draw upon your appeals decision for general guidance in
    developing amendments. We are especially mindful of the fact that in
         your appeals decision you identified all or part of several
     alternatives in the FEIS that provided opportunities to meet a wide
   variety of goals without unnecessary risks to the natural resources of
                                  concern.

 REVIEW OF CONCERNS IN THE APPEAL DECISION: ASSESSMENT AND CONSIDERATION OF
                            POSSIBILE REFINEMENTS

    As requested, we will review the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment
     decision "for possibilities of more flexibility in aggressive fuels
   treatment while still providing short-term and long-term protection for
     wildlife and other resource values." We will re-examine elements of
         Alternatives 4, 6 and 7 that may deserve further attention,
     particularly the acreage of fuels treatments to reduce the risk of
                              severe wildfire.

    We will review the relationship between the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan
       Amendment decision and national wildland firefighting and fuels
     management. Specifically, we will review the Cohesive Fire Strategy
   (October 2000), the Western Governors' Ten-Year Comprehensive Strategy
    (August 2001) and experience with the National Fire Plan to identify
   new science, policy, and approaches to land management that might help
          refine the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment decision.

    We recommit to the intent and objectives of the HF-QLG Pilot Project
     and embrace the spirit of community involvement that underlies the
                               Pilot Project.

                               We will review:
     * The ability to fully implement the DFPZ strategy called for in the
       pilot project. Issues to be reviewed include canopy closure
       restrictions, diameter limits, restrictions on area treatments; and
     * The ability to implement 8700 acres of group selection annually as
       originally envisioned by the HF-QLG legislation. The administrative
       study immediately permits planning and decision making to proceed
       on 4000 acres of group selection annually. We will also review the
       Sierra Nevada Forest Plan amendment land allocation and Standards
       and Guidelines in order to evaluate the possibility of reaching the
       8700 acres originally envisioned.

    We will use the results of the review to adjust our implementation of
    the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment. We will also propose a plan
   amendment that would allow implementation of the HF-QLG Pilot Project.
    If these activities take us beyond the authorized years of the HF-QLG
      legislation, we will continue implementation of the HF-QLG Pilot
   Project, as appropriate, under existing authorities to capture the full
                       lifespan of the Pilot Project.

    In addition to the three areas of concern identified in your appeals
         decision, we will also evaluate other issues raised in the
   administrative appeals. We are sensitive to the interdependence between
    family owned ranches and grazing on National Forests. We will review
    the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment for adverse effects that may
    lead to increasing urbanization of private lands adjacent to national
      forests. For example, we will carefully review the standards and
   guidelines that may reduce grazing such as those for willow flycatcher
    and Yosemite toad. In the spirit of your desire to: "work with local
    individuals and communities to protect and restore the health of the
   land," we will work with groups such as the Range 2000 Working Group to
    implement riparian habitat enhancements and restoration to attempt to
                    maintain grazing near current levels.

     We are also sensitive to the concerns from recreationists that the
   Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment restricts their access to national
      forest lands. We will review standards and guidelines as to their
       effects on developed ski areas, recreation residences and other
     recreation uses. We will engage home owners associations, off road
     vehicle groups, the ski industry and others to assure that we have
                    carefully considered their concerns.

 IMMEDIATE STEPS TO REFINE THE SIERRA NEVADA FOREST PLAN AMENDMENT DECISION

       During the first field season of the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan
   Amendment implementation, local managers employed an inter-disciplinary
     review to refine the wildland urban interface zone boundaries. Over
     winter and during the coming season, local managers will work with
     Firesafe Councils and other local communities to further refine the
     wildland urban interface boundaries and identify priority areas for
                        aggressive fuels treatments.

       During the first field season of the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan
   Amendment implementation, local managers identified three issues that,
      if clarified, might improve the flexibility of implementation and
   increase the likelihood of successfully achieving the objectives of the
           Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment decision. They are:
     * The need for consistent methods to measure canopy cover;
     * The need for consistent methods to identify California Wildlife
       Habitat Relationship (CWHR) classes; and
     * The need to clarify the relationships between stand boundaries and
       treatment areas.

   These needed clarifications can be provided without changing the record
       of decision. Therefore, as an initial matter, I will be issuing
       clarifying direction about Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment
   standards related to these concerns to ensure appropriate protection of
    wildlife habitats and provide for more effective treatment of fuels.
    This clarifying direction will facilitate implementation of strategic
                   fuels treatments across the landscape.

  LONG TERM ACTIONS TO FURTHER REFINE AND POSSIBLY AMEND THE SIERRA NEVADA
                       FOREST PLAN AMENDMENT DECISION

      At present, we cannot specifically predict the opportunities for
      increased flexibility in the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment
      decision that might come from the review of the areas of concern.
   However, several possible improvements in the decision were identified
   during the 2001 field season; taken individually and collectively, they
   may facilitate fuels treatments and accomplishment of the National Fire
                               Plan. They are:
     * Reconsideration of the percentage of cumulative treatments allowed
       in protected activity centers within one-year and ten-year time
       intervals;
     * Reconsideration of the requirement to manage old forest inclusions
       down to one-acre sizes.

                                  TIMELINE

    We recognize the need to carefully respond to the concerns identified
    in the appeals decision as quickly as possible. We expect to complete
   the entire response to the appeals decision within 12 months, including
   any proposed amendments to the plan. The management direction approved
     in the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment record of decision will
   remain in effect during the review, as affirmed by the appeal decision
    of November 16, 2001. The immediate actions component of the reviews
     will be completed between now and the next field season. The exact
   timeline for the long-term will depend on the outcome of the assessment
     phase of reviews, but we expect to complete those actions within 12
    months. We will conduct our work, in an open, collaborative process.

    We have enclosed an action plan that provides further details on the
       short and long-term actions we propose to address the concerns
                 identified in the appeals and the decision.

     I reiterate my intention to conduct a broad review of Sierra Nevada
      forest Plan Amendment. I believe that the scope of the review and
   subsequent refinements to the decision will necessarily be broader and
   encompass more steps than those summarized in this letter. To that end,
             I consider the review itself as a work in progress.

   We look forward to this opportunity to further refine the progress that
     has already been made in stewardship of the Sierra Nevada National
                                  Forests.
/s/ Jack A. Blackwell

JACK A. BLACKWELL
Regional Forester

cc:     Station Director, PSW
        Forest Supervisors
        Regional Directors


                           Top of page

                                      Action Plan
