http://specter.senate.gov/peterlee.pdf

   Report of Senator Arlen Specter On the Handling of the Espionage Case
   Against Dr. Peter H. Lee Summary On 7-8 October 1997, Dr. Peter
   Hoong-Yee Lee confessed to the FBI that he had provided classified
   nuclear weapons design and testing information to scientists of the
   People's Republic of China (PRC) on two occasions in 1985, and had
   given classified anti-submarine warfare information to the Chinese in
   May 1997. The 1985 revelations, which occurred during discussions with,
   and lectures to, PRC scientists in Beijing hotel rooms, involved his
   work on hohlraums, devices used to simulate nuclear detonations in a
   process called Inertial Confinement Fusion, or ICF.1 According to a 17
   February 1998 "Impact Statement" prepared by experts from the
   Department of Energy, the ICF data provided by Dr. Lee was of
   significant material assistance to the PRC in their nuclear weapons
   development program.... For that reason, this analysis indicates that
   Dr. Lee's activities have directly enhanced the PRC nuclear weapons
   program to the detriment of U.S. national security.2 The "Impact
   Statement" further notes that "the ICF Program, when developed in
   conjunction with an already existing nuclear program, could assist in
   the design of more sophisticated nuclear weapons."3 Dr. Lee's 1997
   disclosures came in two lectures to PRC scientists, again in China,
   where he discussed his work on the joint U.S./U.K. Radar Ocean Imaging
   (ROI) project. The objective of the project, which has been carried out
   over several years at the cost of more than $100 million, is to study
   the feasibility of using radars to detect submerged submarines. After
   viewing videotapes of Dr. Lee's confession, Dr. Richard Twogood, former
   Technical Program Leader for the ROI project, stated that Dr. Lee's
   disclosures contained classified information at the SECRET level which
   went right to the heart of the most significant technical achievement
   of the U.S./U.K. program up until 1995.4 Although Dr. Lee was not
   charged for the 1997 disclosures of classified information, a 9 March
   2000 review by the Department of Defense concluded that Dr. Lee's anti-
   submarine warfare revelations were classified at the CONFIDENTIAL
   level,5 which, by definition, would damage U.S. national security.6
   According to the Cox Committee Report, "this research, if successfully
   completed, could enable the [Chinese military] to threaten previously
   invulnerable U.S. nuclear submarines."7 Dr. Lee's confessed crimes
   caused serious harm to U.S. national security, yet he was offered a
   plea bargain which resulted in a sentence amounting to one year in a
   half-way house, 3,000 hours of community service and a $20,000 fine.
   Considering the magnitude of Dr. Lee's offenses and his failure to
   adhere to the terms of the plea agreement which called for complete
   cooperation and truthfulness, the interests of the United States were
   not well served by this outcome. During the 106th Congress, I chaired a
   special subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee for the purposes
   of conducting oversight on the Department of Justice's handling of this
   case and several other matters. The Subcommittee's review of the Dr.
   Peter Lee case 2 identified a number of shortcomings in existing
   procedures for handling espionage investigations and prosecutions,
   particularly in cases where highly technical classified information is
   revealed verbally rather than through the transfer of documents.
   Communications between and within the Department of Justice and other
   Executive Branch organizations appear to have broken down at critical
   points during the Peter Lee case, with the result that several key
   decisions were made on the basis of incomplete or incorrect
   information. Had this case been handled more formally and deliberately,
   with more of the critical information being communicated in writing,
   the opportunities for misunderstandings would have been greatly
   reduced, and the chances of Dr. Lee receiving a long prison sentence
   commensurate with his crimes would have been greatly increased.
   Specifically, the Subcommittee's investigation showed that: < The
   classified nuclear weapons design and anti-submarine warfare
   information that Dr. Lee revealed in 1985, 1997, and on other occasions
   may have merited prosecution under 18 USC 794, the most serious of the
   espionage statutes. < Senior DoJ officials, including the Attorney
   General and the Deputy Attorney General, were not sufficiently involved
   in or aware of the case. Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General
   John Keeney, the official with final approval authority in the case,
   advised that he would not have approved the plea bargain had he known
   the trial prosecutor would ask for only a short period of incarceration
   and would charge only an attempt to transmit classified information.8 <
   The Department of Justice's ability to seek a tougher plea agreement or
   to prosecute Dr. Lee under section 794 was hampered by its failure to
   fully understand the classification level of, and the damage to
   national security from, Dr. Lee's nuclear weapons design revelations
   prior to offering him a plea agreement. < DoJ failed to inform the
   court that Dr. Lee repeatedly confessed to disclosing classified
   information to the PRC in 1997, allowing the defense to convince the
   judge during sentencing that the only time Dr. Lee intentionally passed
   classified information was more than 13 years prior. < DoJ did not have
   the DoE's "Impact Statement," which stated that Dr. Lee had provided 3
   significant material assistance to the PRC nuclear weapons program,
   until February 1998, well after the plea agreement was concluded. < The
   reluctance of the Department of Defense, and the Navy in particular, to
   support the prosecution of Dr. Lee for his anti-submarine warfare
   revelations had an adverse impact on the case. < The ambiguity of the
   14 November 1997 memorandum authored by Mr. J.G. Schuster, head of the
   Navy's Science and Technology Branch, seriously undermined DoJ efforts
   to prosecute Dr. Lee. This memorandum was based on incomplete
   information, without knowing the details of what Dr. Lee confessed to
   disclosing to PRC scientists. < DoJ prematurely determined that Dr. Lee
   could not be prosecuted for the 1997 revelations, and the explanation
   that the information Dr. Lee revealed was already in the public domain
   is contradicted by two classified memoranda from Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory which show that the disclosures extended beyond
   what was publicly available. < DoJ's failure to prosecute on the 1997
   disclosures, or at least to add them as a separate count to the plea
   agreement, had a material adverse effect on the disposition of the
   case. Coupling the 1997 disclosures with the 1985 revelations would
   have demonstrated that Dr. Lee's classified disclosures were not
   limited to a single incident long ago, but were ongoing. Obtaining a
   conviction on the 1997 disclosures would not have been a foregone
   conclusion  pushing the matter risked disclosing certain information
   that the FBI and the prosecutor wanted very much to protect, and the
   Navy was reluctant to assist in the prosecution  but these were not
   insurmountable obstacles. At a minimum, an effort should have been made
   to add a separate count to the plea agreement to address these
   disclosures. < DoJ communications were confused on the critical
   question of what authority the trial prosecutor had with regard to a
   charge under Section 794. DoJ officials advised that the Internal
   Security Section would have reconsidered a prosecution under Section
   794 if the plea agreement broke down,9 which was unknown to the trial
   prosecutor who thought he could only take the watered-down plea bargain
   or get nothing at all.10 < The fact that Dr. Lee was an espionage
   suspect while working on the Joint U.S./U.K. Radar Ocean Imaging
   project was not disclosed to the program's sponsors within the Office
   of the Assistant Secretary of Defense/Command, Control, Communications
   and Intelligence (OASD/C3I).11 < Electronic surveillance under the
   Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act was terminated at a critical
   juncture in September 1997, just when the FBI was stepping up its
   activity with 4 regard to Dr. Lee and electronic surveillance could
   have yielded important counter- intelligence information. Although the
   listening device in Dr. Lee's home had been discovered in July, thereby
   decreasing the utility of that particular device, the FBI Field Office
   felt strongly enough about the need for continued surveillance to make
   a verbal renewal request to FBI Headquarters in August, but not
   strongly enough ensure the request was granted. The problems which
   affected this case were serious enough to require remedial steps. The
   Counterintelligence Reform Act of 2000 (S.2089), which became law on 27
   December 2000 as Title VI of Public Law 106-567 (H.R. 5630), contained
   a provision that will address many of the shortcomings in the way the
   DoJ handled this case. That provision, Section 607, amended the
   Classified Information Procedures Act (CIPA) to require that the
   Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division and the
   appropriate United States attorney provide briefings to senior agency
   officials from the victim agency in cases involving classified
   information. The section further required that these briefings occur as
   soon as practicable after the Department of Justice and the United
   States attorney concerned determine that a prosecution could result and
   at such other times thereafter as are necessary to keep the affected
   agency fully and currently informed of the status of the prosecution.
   The Subcommittee's investigation revealed other problems that have not
   yet been addressed through legislation, primarily because it was not
   possible to reach a consensus on how best to solve them. The
   Counterintelligence Reform Act moved through the Judiciary Committee
   and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence without a single vote
   in opposition. The Judiciary Committee reported the measure favorably
   on 23 May 2000 and the Intelligence 5 Committee did the same on 20 July
   2000. As the bill's chief sponsor, I opted to work toward a consensus
   measure to ensure that the important reforms we had identified during
   oversight on this case and the Dr. Wen Ho Lee case could be implemented
   in a timely fashion. Rather than wait until we could work out
   acceptable language on other proposals arising from the Peter Lee case,
   I felt it more important to accomplish what could be done in the time
   available and address the more difficult matters later. I also withheld
   publication of this report during the last Congress so as not to inject
   it into the presidential election. Now that the election is over and
   the 107th Congress is well underway, it is appropriate to release this
   report and begin working on legislation to solve the other problems
   identified by our oversight but upon which we were unable to achieve
   consensus. Specifically, I am introducing legislation to require victim
   agencies  the agencies whose classified information is lost  to produce
   a written "damage statement" which specifies the level of
   classification of the material alleged to have been revealed, and
   justifies the classification level by describing the potential harm to
   national security from such revelations. The legislation further
   requires the prosecution team to consider the "damage statement" before
   any final decision is made as to whether the case should be taken to
   trial or a plea bargain should be offered. I also strongly believe, but
   will not attempt to mandate through legislation, that key instructions
   from Main Justice (Internal Security Section, etc.) to the U.S.
   Attorney's Office with responsibility for prosecuting the case,
   including charging authority and plea bargain authority, should be in
   writing. These written instructions should be shared with the
   investigating agency 6 or agencies and the victim agency so they have
   an opportunity for input before any final decisions are made. The
   findings and recommendations included in this report are based on a
   review of more than 6,000 pages of documents from the FBI, the
   Department of Defense and its sub- components, the Department of
   Justice and information submitted to the court during the sentencing
   process. The Subcommittee conducted three open hearings, three closed
   hearings, two "on-the-record" Senators' briefings, and numerous staff
   interviews, which resulted in hearing from more than 30 individuals who
   played key roles in the conduct of the case. The information presented
   here is derived from unclassified documents and testimony, or relies
   upon unclassified extracts from classified documents. 7 Summary of Dr.
   Peter H. Lee's Espionage Activities Dr. Peter Lee is a naturalized U.S.
   citizen who worked for TRW Inc., a contractor to Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory, from 1973 to 1976. Dr. Lee worked at Lawrence
   Livermore from 1976 to 1984, and at Los Alamos National Laboratory from
   1984 to 1991. He returned to TRW from 1991 until December 1997, when he
   was dismissed in the wake of his plea agreement for passing classified
   information to the Chinese.12 According to his October 1997 confession
   to the FBI, Dr. Lee traveled to China from 22 December 1984 to 19
   January 1985 (while he was employed by Los Alamos National
   Laboratory).13 On 9 January 1985, Dr. Lee met with Chen Nengkuan, a PRC
   scientist employed by the China Academy of Engineering Physics (CAEP),
   in a hotel room in Beijing. Chen told Dr. Lee that he had classified
   questions to ask, and that Dr. Lee could answer just by nodding his
   head yes or no.14 Chen drew a diagram of a hohlraum (a device in which
   lasers are fired at a glass globe to "create a small nuclear detonation
   which is then studied and used in the design of nuclear weapons),"15
   and asked the classified questions, which Dr. Lee, by his own
   admission, knew were classified but answered anyway.16 The following
   day, Dr. Lee accompanied Chen to a hotel in Beijing where another group
   of PRC scientists was waiting. These scientists were also from the
   China Academy of Engineering Physics, which is "responsible for all
   aspects of the PRC's nuclear weapons 8 program."17 Among the scientists
   Dr. Lee briefed was Yu Min, who has been called "the `Edward Teller' of
   the PRC nuclear weapons program."18 For two hours, Dr. Lee answered
   questions and drew diagrams, including several hohlraums. Dr. Lee also
   "discussed problems the U.S. was having in its nuclear weapons testing
   program."19 Dr. Lee further admitted discussing with the Chinese
   scientists at least one portion of a classified document he authored in
   1982. Although the document, titled "An Explanation for the Viewing
   Angle Dependence of Temperature from Cairn Targets," was subsequently
   declassified in 1996,20 revealing its contents in 1985 was an illegal
   act that could be expected to provide substantial assistance to the
   Chinese from 1985 to 1996 and to harm U.S. national security. Dr. Lee
   again visited China, while he was employed by TRW, from 30 April to 22
   May 1997.21 Although Dr. Lee claimed on his travel request form, and in
   a 25 June 1997 interview with FBI Agent Gilbert Cordova, that the visit
   to China had been a pleasure trip for which he paid all his own
   expenses, the truth was that Dr. Lee traveled as a guest of the Chinese
   Institute of Applied Physics and Computational Mathematics (IAPCM),
   which is part of the China Academy of Engineering Physics.22 During
   this May 1997 trip, Dr. Lee gave a lecture at the PRC Institute of
   Applied Physics and Computational Mathematics in Beijing. The lecture
   covered his work for TRW in support of the Radar Ocean Imaging Project,
   and was attended by nearly 30 top PRC scientists.23 When asked about
   the applicability of his work to anti-submarine warfare, Dr. Lee showed
   the scientists 9 a surface ship wake image (which he had brought from
   the U.S. to show them), drew a graph, explained the physics underlying
   his work, and told the Chinese where to filter the data within the
   graph to enhance the ability to locate the ocean wake of a vessel.24 A
   few days later, Dr. Lee gave the same lecture in another city, using
   the graphs that the Chinese had saved from his first lecture and had
   brought to the second lecture for his use.25 Upon his return from the
   PRC, Dr. Lee filled out a TRW Post-Travel Questionnaire in which he
   denied that there "were any requests from Foreign Nationals for
   technical information," and denied that there were any attempts to
   persuade him to reveal or discuss classified information.26 On 5 August
   and 14 August 1997, Peter Lee was interviewed by FBI agents at a Santa
   Barbara, California, hotel. During these interviews, Dr. Lee admitted
   that he had lied on his travel form about the purpose of his trip to
   China in May, and that he had lied about receiving requests for
   technical information. However, he continued to insist that he had paid
   for the trip to the PRC with his own money.27 After the two FBI
   interviews, Dr. Lee contacted a Chinese official named Gou Hong by e-
   mail on 25 August 1997, and requested that Gou provide Lee with
   receipts indicating that Lee had paid for the trip to the PRC, that the
   receipts contain the names of Lee and his wife in English, and that
   they show that Lee paid cash for the trip.28 On 3 September 1997, Dr.
   Lee 10 provided the FBI with copies of hotel and airline receipts for
   the May 1997 trip which stated that Lee had paid for the trip in cash.
   Based on a review of e-mail transmissions and telephone conversations
   between Lee and Gou, however, the FBI concluded that these receipts
   were false.29 On 7 October 1997, Dr. Lee was interviewed and
   polygraphed by the FBI. The polygraph examiner believed that Lee showed
   deception when he answered "no" to the following questions: A) Have you
   ever deliberately been involved in espionage against the United States?
   B) Have you ever provided classified information to persons
   unauthorized to receive it? C) Have you deliberately withheld any
   contacts with any non-U.S. intelligence service from the FBI?30 After
   being told that he had failed the polygraph on these questions, Dr. Lee
   made a videotaped confession in which he admitted "having passed
   classified national defense information to the PRC twice in 1985, and
   to lying on his post-travel questionnaire in 1997."31 During this same
   interview, Dr. Lee also repeatedly confessed that he intentionally
   revealed classified information during his 1997 anti-submarine lectures
   in China. Dr. Lee was not prosecuted for these revelations, and the
   judge was not adequately informed of these admissions at sentencing. On
   8 December 1997, Dr. Lee pleaded guilty to a two count information that
   he violated: (1) 18 USC 793(d) - Attempt to communicate national
   defense information to a person not entitled to receive it, and (2) 18
   USC 1001 - False statement to a government agency.32 11 According to
   the press release from the office of U.S. Attorney Nora Manella, Dr.
   Lee "admitted that he knew the information was classified, and that by
   transmitting the information he intended to help the Chinese."33 The
   offenses to which Lee pleaded guilty could have resulted in a maximum
   sentence of 15 years in federal prison and a fine of $250,000. Under
   the terms of the agreement, the Government asked for a "short period of
   incarceration," a formulation that was negotiated by the trial attorney
   and approved by Mr. John Dion in the Internal Security Section, but was
   not approved by Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Keeney, the
   DoJ official with final authority, who advised the Subcommittee that he
   would not have approved the plea agreement had he know that it would
   request only a short period of incarceration as an opening position.34
   On 26 March 1998, Dr. Lee was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge
   Terry Hatter to one year in a community corrections facility, three
   years of probation, 3,000 hours of community service, and a $20,000
   fine. The sentence was based upon a sealed plea agreement from 8
   December 1997.35 The plea agreement and other key documents in the case
   were unsealed at the request of the Subcommittee in late 1999.36 Every
   DoJ official interviewed by the Subcommittee expected Dr. Lee to
   receive jail time, during which they planned to seek his further
   cooperation. When he received no jail time, all leverage was lost by
   the government. 12 Analysis of the Nuclear Weapons Design Revelations
   The importance of Dr. Lee's 1985 disclosures is highlighted by the 17
   February 1998 "Impact Statement" from the Department of Energy which
   concludes that: the [Inertial Confinement Fusion] data provided by Dr.
   Lee was of significant material assistance to the PRC in their nuclear
   weapons development program.... For that reason, this analysis
   indicates that Dr. Lee's activities have directly enhanced the PRC
   nuclear weapons program to the detriment of U.S. national security.37
   The "Impact Statement" further notes that "the ICF Program, when
   developed in conjunction with an already existing nuclear program,
   could assist in the design of more sophisticated nuclear weapons."38
   The trial attorney wanted to prosecute under Section 794 for the 1985
   revelations, but was overruled by Main Justice as well as his
   supervising attorney.39 In his 12 April 2000 written statement to the
   Subcommittee, the Internal Security Section (ISS) line attorney with
   primary responsibility for the Peter Lee case, explained why he did not
   feel it appropriate to pursue a 794 charge on the 1985 disclosures. In
   my estimation, both then and now, the sole weakness in the case was the
   questionable significance of the information Lee compromised, both in
   1985 and in 1997. As to Lee's 1985 disclosure, I knew, for instance,
   that the Department had never prosecuted a case under 794 where the
   compromised information, as in the case of Lee's 1985 disclosure, had
   been declassified prior to the crime being discovered. Let me emphasize
   this: the information Lee admitted disclosing in 1985 had been
   declassified.40 This analysis may be correct as far as it goes, but
   there were other factors and issues that should have been considered.
   Dr. Lee's confession, though carefully crafted to limit his exposure,
   simply confirmed much, but not all, of what the FBI already knew about
   his espionage 13 activities. The FBI knew well before they confronted
   Dr. Lee that he had likely been compromising anti-submarine information
   since the early 1990s,41 and that in the early 1980s Dr. Lee had
   allegedly given the Chinese classified information that greatly
   assisted their nuclear weapons program.42 One scientist the FBI
   consulted in trying to evaluate the extent of Dr. Lee's revelations
   said, "It seems likely that Peter Lee at least partially compromised
   every project, classified or unclassified, he was involved with at
   Livermore, [Los Alamos National Laboratory], and TRW."43 At a later
   stage of the proceeding, Dr. Lee admitted that he had given the PRC
   scientists additional information which had not been declassified. Had
   the Internal Security Section awaited fuller development of the facts,
   it might not have declined prosecution under 794 on grounds of
   subsequent declassification. The Government would have been able to
   corroborate Dr. Lee's confession and to prove that he had done more
   than he confessed to. As the prosecuting attorney noted during his 5
   April 2000 appearance before the Subcommittee, "...in the many cases I
   had with a cooperating defendant or a defendant who pled guilty who was
   debriefed, I never had the kind of information to corroborate what was
   said as I did in this case."44 The ISS line attorney's statement
   regarding the "questionable significance of the information Lee
   compromised" in 1985 is flatly contradicted by the DoE "Impact
   Statement" of 17 February 1998 which states that Dr. Lee did serious
   harm to U.S. national security. Had the 14 ISS line attorney waited for
   the experts to evaluate the case, he would have known that a 794 charge
   should be given much greater consideration than it got. During
   testimony before the Subcommittee, the ISS line attorney who handled
   the case stated that it would have been impractical to wait for a
   damage assessment which, in his experience, normally takes more than a
   year. In fact, however, there were two assessments available within
   less than 90 days of the start of plea negotiations. Dr. Thomas Cook's
   "Declaration of Technical Damage to United States National Security
   Assessed in Support of United States v. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee" was
   available in February 1998, as was the Department of Energy "Impact
   Statement." The Government had spent six years and considerable amounts
   of money investigating Dr. Lee's espionage activities, had obtained a
   confession that substantiated much of the information it already had
   from other sources, and had not charged Dr. Lee with a crime and
   therefore did not have a speedy trial issue to contend with.
   Consequently, there was no reason why the Government could not wait for
   a complete analysis by competent experts of Dr. Lee's espionage
   activities. The failure to obtain such an analysis prior to entering a
   plea agreement seriously undermined the Government's ability to
   prosecute Dr. Lee under section 794, and was a major factor in the
   unsatisfactory disposition of the case. In his testimony before the
   Subcommittee on 12 April 2000, the ISS line attorney who 15 handled the
   Lee case further argued that the Government would have had a hard time
   proving that the classified nuclear weapons design information that Dr.
   Lee provided to the Chinese was related to the national defense, an
   element of proof that would have been necessary to sustain a charge
   under 18 USC 794. In response to a question from Senator Sessions, the
   attorney said that the information Dr. Lee revealed in 1985 "was
   classified SECRET, but I'm not sure it would have been ultimately found
   to be national defense information at the time he compromised it."45
   When pressed by Senator Sessions to explain how nuclear weapons design
   information could be deemed not related to the national defense, the
   attorney referred to the Supreme Court's opinion in Gorin v. United
   States.46 Any reliance on the Gorin decision in the context of the
   Peter Lee case is misplaced. The Gorin case was decided in January
   1941, well before the advent of nuclear weapons. The Court's opinion,
   written by Justice Reed, makes clear that the information in the Lee
   case would have been found to be "national defense information." In the
   words of the Court: National defense, the Government maintains, "is a
   generic concept of broad connotations, referring to the military and
   naval establishments and the related activities of national
   preparedness." We agree that the words "national defense" in the
   Espionage Act carry that meaning.47 When the Supreme Court held, as it
   did in Gorin, that reports "as to the movements of fishing boats,
   suspected of espionage and as to the taking of photographs of American
   war vessels"48 constituted national defense information, there can be
   no doubt that nuclear weapons design information would be encompassed
   by the term. 16 The DoJ attorney also cited the decision of the Second
   Circuit Court of Appeals in United States v. Heine.49 That case has no
   applicability to this matter since all the information given to a
   German automobile corporation was publicly available at the time of
   disclosure.50 During the sentencing hearing, Dr. Lee's lawyer, Mr.
   James Henderson, tried to downplay the significance of the 1985
   revelations through character witnesses who claimed that the
   disclosures were not related to nuclear weapons but to energy
   production.51 These witnesses did not have access to the text or tape
   of Dr. Lee's confession which detailed the extent of his revelations.52
   Dr. Cook and the authors of the 17 February 1998 DoE "Impact Statement"
   had access to Dr. Lee's confession and were in a position to evaluate
   the extent of damage and of the espionage. In view of these facts it
   was surprising that the ISS attorney advanced the argument: that Lee
   could claim that he made the disclosures to encourage China not to
   conduct nuclear weapons tests in the field, and he would likely be
   supported by internal Government documents or even testimony of former
   U.S. Government or Livermore officials that that was actually one of
   the reasons the U.S. Government declassified the information beginning
   in 1990. In other words, Lee would have been able to credibly argue
   that his actions were in the national interest.53 Any claim by Dr. Lee
   that his actions were in the national interest would be totally
   unfounded. Individual scientists do not have the latitude to make
   determinations  during the course of lectures in Beijing hotel rooms
   as to whether or not it is in the national interest to help the Chinese
   develop more sophisticated nuclear weapons. 17 The prosecuting attorney
   made this very point at the sentencing hearing when he said, "It is not
   up to the whim of an individual scientist to determine if something is
   classified.... This is one of the nation's top scientists from one of
   the nation's top research nuclear weapons facilities giving a two hour
   lecture regarding classified information to the top nuclear scientists
   of China."54 Dr. Lee very likely could have been prosecuted under 18
   USC 794, the harshest of the espionage statutes, for his nuclear
   weapons design revelations. As Senator Sessions said at the
   Subcommittee's 5 April 2000 hearing: I don't think [the prosecuting
   attorney] would have had a problem getting a conviction on that. [Dr.
   Lee] confessed to it, number one. Number two, I don't think any jury is
   going to believe that he was there for his health and a casual
   conversation to have two different meetings in Beijing hotel rooms with
   top Chinese scientists. There is no business for that, and anyone with
   common sense would understand it.55 In the context of the prosecuting
   attorney's efforts to proceed under 794 and Senator Sessions' strongly
   expressed views, there is a strong argument that a 794 prosecution
   should have been brought. Internal DoJ Mis-communication and a Lack of
   High Level Supervision Unfortunately, the case never went to trial. By
   late November 1997, the Internal Security Section attorney had
   completed his analysis of the case, concluding that Dr. Lee should be
   offered a plea under 18 USC 793 or section 224(b) of the Atomic Energy
   Act of 1954 for the 1985 compromise, in combination with a charge under
   section 1001 for the false statements on 18 his travel form.56 When it
   became apparent that "Lee was balking at a plea with a potential 10-
   year exposure for the 1985 incident," the attorney recommended to Mr.
   Dion that "although the section 794 case for that incident in 1985 had
   problems, it was sufficiently robust that we could ethically use it as
   leverage."57 Mr. Dion testified that he called the prosecuting attorney
   and authorized him to: seek a plea of guilty by Lee to a violation of
   18 USC Section 793 (d) for his 1985 disclosures and to a violation of
   the false statement statute, 18 USC Section 1001. As such a plea would
   require Lee to waive the 10-year statute of limitations, [the
   prosecuting attorney] was authorized to advise counsel that no final
   decision had been made as to the prospect of charging Lee with a
   violation of Section 794.58 The prosecutor, who was emphatic in his
   testimony that his instructions were to accept a plea under 793 and
   1001, or nothing,59 obtained a plea on both counts, but had to concede
   to only a "short period of incarceration" to secure Dr. Lee's
   agreement.60 Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Keeney
   told the Subcommittee that, "...I was not aware, so far as I recall,
   that it would call for only a short period of incarceration or would
   charge only an attempted 793 charge. Had this been our opening position
   in plea negotiations, I doubt that I would have approved it,
   particularly, the "short period of incarceration."'61 He then tried to
   justify DoJ's handling of the case by saying that "this was the best
   that could be hoped for given the sentencing practices of the courts in
   the Central District of California."62 Had Dr. Lee cooperated, as he
   was required to do under the plea agreement, it might have been
   possible to achieve an acceptable disposition in the case even with the
   weak plea agreement. Had Dr. Lee told the whole truth and provided
   whatever counter-intelligence 19 information he knew, that would
   mitigate the need to punish him with a long sentence. It might have
   been acceptable to balance counterintelligence information gained from
   a cooperating defendant against the need to punish wrongdoing. However,
   there is no benefit in accepting a plea contingent upon the defendant's
   cooperation and then not getting that cooperation. Dr. Lee did not live
   up to his obligation to be truthful. The "Position with Respect to
   Sentencing Factors" that the Government submitted to the court
   acknowledged "concerns that defendant has still not been completely
   forthcoming about the nature, quality and extent of his improper
   contacts with scientists of the PRC."63 Dr. Lee's lack of cooperation
   was further highlighted in the February 1998 DoE "Impact Statement"
   where the authors note that: [W]e do not believe that Dr. Lee has been
   fully cooperative in identifying or describing other classified
   information he may have compromised. We believe that Dr. Lee confessed
   to compromising selected classified information in the hope his other,
   more damaging activities would not be discovered or fully
   investigated.64 On 26 February 1998, Dr. Lee failed an FBI-administered
   polygraph where he was asked whether he had lied to the FBI since his
   last polygraph examination regarding passing classified information.65
   When interviewed by DoE scientists in March 1998, Dr. Lee again failed
   to cooperate fully. As Dr. Thomas Cook pointed out during his testimony
   before the Subcommittee on 29 March 2000, when asked questions about
   what he had done, Dr. Lee "repeatedly denied any knowledge or any
   interest in classified programs and publications. He was, however, the
   author and/or the technical editor of some of these publications which
   he denied knowledge of."66 In view of these repeated lies and lack of
   cooperation, there should be no doubt that Dr. Lee did not comply with
   the terms of the plea agreement, and the Government could have
   successfully 20 sought to breach it. When asked by Senator Specter why
   he did not breach the plea agreement in view of this lack of
   cooperation, the prosecuting attorney explained that he could not
   abrogate the deal because he had nothing to fall back on,67 and because
   doing so risked exposing extremely sensitive classified information he
   had been instructed to protect.68 The prosecutor advised that he was
   told that if there was a risk of certain evidence coming out, he would
   have to drop the case. As the case unfolded, however, there was no risk
   of that evidence being disclosed. In the absence of any problem as to
   disclosure of the sensitive information, and had the prosecutor known
   he could have, or at least might have been able to proceed with the 794
   prosecution, then the better course would have been to have abrogated
   the plea agreement on the basis of Peter Lee's failure to cooperate
   which could have been established without disclosing any classified
   information. Due to the significance of the sensitive information about
   which the prosecutor was concerned, and the restrictions it placed on
   the prosecution of the case, it is troubling that at no time during the
   course of the Subcommittee's review of the case did Mr. Dion or anyone
   else from DoJ ever brief Congress about the information until after the
   prosecuting attorney raised the subject in the context of explaining
   why he had not sought to abrogate the plea agreement. The Classified
   Information Procedures Act (CIPA) specifically provides procedures
   whereby the Government can deal with the risks of exposing such
   information, even to the extent of 21 permitting the Attorney General
   to decline prosecution if the risk of exposing classified information
   is too high. There is no evidence that the Department of Justice
   formally considered this sensitive information in the CIPA context. The
   prosecutor's understanding of his limited authority was caused by a
   breakdown of communications. As he understood his authority, since Dr.
   Lee had waived the statute of limitations on the 793 count to accept
   the plea, breaching the plea would leave the Government with only the
   1001 count, which was also in the plea. Therefore, the prosecutor felt
   he had to stick with the plea agreement because it was that or
   nothing.69 Even though the prosecutor knew Dr. Lee was lying and was
   not cooperating, he felt he could not abrogate the plea agreement
   because he thought he could not charge Dr. Lee under Section 794 due to
   constraints imposed by the Internal Security Section at Main Justice.
   Mr. Dion conceded at the Subcommittee's 12 April 2000 hearing that he
   did not recall discussing with the prosecuting attorney that he (Dion)
   might reconsider a 794 prosecution if the proposed plea agreement fell
   through: Senator Specter: You say no final decision had been made ...
   as to whether he would be charged with 794? Mr. Dion: That's correct,
   sir.... Senator Specter: ... Mr. Dion, when you say no decision had
   been made  and I interrupted you at that point  as to what would happen
   if the plea bargain broke down, [the prosecuting attorney] testified
   very emphatically that he wanted to proceed with 794 but was told that
   all he could do was do the best he could under the authorized plea
   bargain, so that is why he proceeded as he did, asking for only a short
   period of 22 incarceration and not taking action when Dr. Lee lied on
   his polygraph and did not give further answers. But are you suggesting,
   if that plea bargain had broken down, that you might have reconsidered
   and authorized a 794 prosecution? Mr. Dion: We definitely would have
   reconsidered our course of action, sir. Senator Specter: Well, did you
   tell [the prosecutor] that? Mr. Dion: I don't recall specifically if we
   discussed that or not. We did discuss that no final decision had been
   made on the 794 and that he should proceed with plea negotiations on
   that basis.70 In the face of the prosecuting attorney's testimony that
   he was authorized only to take the weak plea agreement or nothing, it
   seems clear that he was correct on what authority was communicated to
   him. The prosecuting attorney was not the only one who did not
   understand the Internal Security Section's position with regard to a
   charge under Section 794. An FBI e-mail of 25 November 1997, from an
   attorney in the National Security Law Unit, to an FBI Supervisory
   Special Agent in the National Security Division, noted in relevant part
   that "According to [the FBI Supervisory Special Agent], ISS/Dion said
   that if [Dr. Lee] doesn't accept the plea proffer, then he gets charged
   with 18 USC 794, the heftier charge."71 The Secretary of Defense was
   told the same thing. On 26 November 1997, Colonel Dan Baur prepared a
   memorandum for the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of
   Defense, in which he relayed information on the case he had received
   from the FBI. Colonel Baur's memo stated that DoJ had granted the U.S.
   Attorney authority to offer to let Lee plead guilty under 18 23 USC 793
   and 18 USC 1001 to avoid being charged under Section 794. Furthermore,
   the memo noted that "should Lee decline the offer, the U.S. Attorney
   will seek an indictment against him for violation of Section 794."72
   When read relevant portions of these communications at the
   Subcommittee's 12 April 2000 hearing, however, Mr. John Dion stated
   that they were incorrect.73 Clearly there was a mis-communication on
   this very important issue, both within the Department of Justice and
   between DoJ and DoD. It is surprising and disturbing that a critical
   piece of information in the case  exactly what the Assistant U.S.
   Attorney was authorized to do and under what terms he was authorized to
   do it  could be subject to such differing interpretations and
   understandings. In an effort to understand how such a fundamental point
   could be misunderstood, the Subcommittee traced the information that
   appeared in Colonel Baur's memo to Secretary Cohen back to its origins.
   It appears that Mr. Dion spoke to the prosecutor, who then spoke to the
   Los Angles case Agents. Sometime thereafter, the FBI Supervisory
   Special Agent in Los Angles was briefed by one of the two case agents,
   or by both. One of these agents relayed the information to the attorney
   in National Security Law Unit, who passed it on to the FBIHQ
   Supervisory Special Agent, for subsequent relay to Colonel Baur.
   Whatever the actual path of the information  and wherever the
   mis-communication was introduced  it is clear that the information did
   not pass, as one might expect, from the Internal Security Section to
   the Department of Defense. The ISS line attorney handling the case
   testified that he never spoke to anyone in DoD about the plea
   discussions.74 As a consequence of this failure to communicate, the
   victim agency and officials 24 within the Department of Justice were
   acting without a clear understanding of the actual decisions that had
   been made. It is obvious that the case would have benefitted from more
   direct supervision by high level Justice Department officials, which
   would have likely reduced the confusion within the Department of
   Justice and between DoJ and the Department of Defense. Attorney General
   Reno was provided with three "Urgent Reports" informing her of "(1)
   Peter Lee's admission on October 7, 1997, (2) his entry of a guilty
   plea on December 9, 1997, and (3) the court's imposition of sentence on
   March 26, 1998."75 On 31 October 1997, as required by law, she also
   signed the document authorizing the use of FISA-derived information for
   law-enforcement purposes. She was not otherwise involved in the case,
   leaving the matter to subordinates. The Deputy Attorney General, Mr.
   Holder, was also uninvolved in the case. Mr. John Dion was the
   supervisory attorney in the Internal Security Section, but one of his
   subordinates made the substantive decisions in this case. When
   questioned about allegations that Dr. Lee's revelations extended beyond
   what he confessed to, for example, Mr. Dion deferred, saying that one
   of his subordinate attorneys was "more directly familiar with that
   information than I am...."76 More direct supervision by key DoJ
   personnel may have ensured a better outcome in this important espionage
   case. 25 Analysis of the Anti-Submarine Warfare Revelations It also
   appears that Dr. Lee should have been prosecuted in relation to the
   information he revealed in his May 11, 1997 briefing of Chinese
   scientists. Charges should have been filed under Section 794(a) which
   applies to "any other major weapons system or major element of defense
   strategy." The U.S. nuclear submarine fleet, which comprises one leg of
   the nation's strategic triad, would qualify as a major weapons system.
   The potential harm from Dr. Lee's 1997 revelations was described by the
   Cox Committee Report: Lee admitted to the FBI that, in 1997, he passed
   to PRC weapons scientists classified research into the detection of
   enemy submarines under water. This research, if successfully completed,
   could enable the PLA to threaten previously invulnerable U.S. nuclear
   submarines.77 To determine whether or not the information Dr. Lee
   revealed would qualify for prosecution under section 794, the
   Government first needed to get an assessment of that information. On 14
   October 1997, the Assistant U.S. Attorney handling the case in Los
   Angeles contacted a representative of the Defense Criminal
   Investigative Service. He was referred to Dr. Donna Kulla in the
   Intelligence Systems Support Office where she dealt with the Radar
   Ocean Imaging (ROI) project on which Peter Lee worked. Dr. Kulla
   informed the prosecuting attorney that the information that Dr. Lee had
   revealed was classified CONFIDENTIAL.78 In mid-October, the FBI also
   contacted Dr. Richard Twogood, of Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory (LLNL), and asked for his opinion on the level of
   classification of Dr. Lee's revelations. Dr. Twogood was the Deputy
   Associate Director for Electronics Engineering at 26 LLNL, and from
   1988 until 1996 had been the Program Leader for the Imaging and
   Detection Program at LLNL. The Joint U.S./U.K. Radar Ocean Imaging
   Program, for which Dr. Twogood was the Technical Program Leader from
   1990 through 1995, was the single largest component of LLNL's Imaging
   and Detection Program, and it was the one where Dr. Peter Lee worked
   and where he would have had access  at the DoD SECRET level  to the
   important discoveries and significant advances in the development of
   methods to detect submarine signatures with remote sensing radars.79
   Dr. Twogood is an authorized derivative classifier, which means that he
   can make appropriate judgements about classification based on guidance
   written by others. Although the Navy had primary jurisdiction over the
   anti-submarine warfare information that Dr. Lee revealed to the
   Chinese, Dr. Twogood had personally written some of the classification
   guidance being used in the Joint U.S./U.K. program, and was therefore
   familiar with the importance of the information. When he reviewed the
   videotaped confession on 15 October 1997, Dr. Twogood noted that Dr.
   Lee himself admitted that he had passed CONFIDENTIAL information.
   Furthermore, Dr. Twogood informed the FBI that the information was at
   least CONFIDENTIAL and likely DoD SECRET. More importantly, in Dr.
   Twogood's view, Dr. Lee's disclosures went right to the heart of the
   most significant technical achievement of the U.S./U.K. program up
   until 1995.80 The prosecuting attorney was concerned that Dr. Twogood's
   position could be said to 27 have evolved, from saying it was
   CONFIDENTIAL when first asked, to the later position that the
   information was SECRET. The prosecutor was also aware that the defense
   would be able to find competent scientists who would take a different
   view about the level of classification due to the similarity of some of
   the information to what was already in the public domain. These are
   legitimate concerns, but are not outside the realm of what prosecutors
   contend with in all espionage cases. They are, by no means, sufficient
   to justify not going forward with the prosecution. On 28 October 1997,
   the ISS attorney handling the case attended a meeting with DoD
   officials for the purpose of determining whether there was publicly
   available information that could undermine an espionage prosecution for
   the 1997 compromise.81 At the meeting, the DoJ attorney provided DoD
   officials with the draft Cordova affidavit, and made them aware that
   the confession had been videotaped, but he did not provide copies of
   the tapes and no DoD officials asked for them.82 When asked about why
   he had not provided copies of the tapes to DoD personnel, the ISS
   attorney replied: Because at that point, at the initial meeting, the
   purpose was not to get a final classification determination or even a
   preliminary classification determination on this information. It was
   only to find out one of two things: what publicly available information
   might be out there that could potentially compromise a Section 794
   prosecution on the 1997 compromise, and what could we say about the
   program generally, as we have here today, in an open trial setting.83
   By 3 November 1997, the Department of Defense had compiled an extensive
   list of publicly available information on the topic of radar ocean
   imaging and provided it to the Internal 28 Security Section. Among the
   documents was a printout from a LLNL website titled "Radar Ocean
   Imaging," and prepared remarks that Dr. Twogood had presented in open
   session before the House Armed Services Committee in April 1994. Both
   of these documents contained general information about the use of
   radars to detect submarines.84 Based on his assessment of these
   documents, the ISS attorney concluded that Dr. Lee could not be
   prosecuted under section 794 for the 1997 compromise. As he put it in
   his 12 April 2000 appearance before the Subcommittee: The Web site and
   Dr. Twogood's testimony, coupled with the fact that the underlying 1995
   document was only classified under a mosaic theory, convinced me that
   there was no section 794 case on the 1997 compromise. In my opinion,
   Senators, it was not even a close call.85 The ISS line attorney was
   wrong in concluding that the information was already publicly
   available.86 Subsequent analysis showed that Dr. Lee's anti-submarine
   warfare revelations extended beyond what was in the public domain and
   therefore remained classified. On 10 November 1997, in response to a 30
   October request from the prosecuting attorney, Lawrence Livermore
   employee Al Heiman provided an FBI Special Agent with a copy of the
   Security Plan covering the detection results in the U.K./U.S. Radar
   Ocean Imaging program. The enclosed memorandum from Dr. Twogood
   described the classification guidelines established for the program.
   Paragraph 3 of Appendix A of the classification guideline  indicating
   that "processing techniques which, when applied to unclassified or
   classified data, yield a significant enhancement in signature
   detectability which might apply to the submarine 29 case" should be
   classified SECRET  was directly applicable to the information that Dr.
   Lee revealed to the Chinese.87 On 14 November 1997, Mr. John G.
   Schuster, Jr., wrote the following memorandum for Navy Captain Earl
   Dewispelaere: The signal analysis techniques briefed by the subject are
   UNCLASSIFIED when applied to environmental data and they have been
   presented and published in several unclassified forums. Any application
   of the technique to submarine wake signatures, however, would be
   classified at the SECRET level, as called out in current classification
   guides. The material that was briefed appears to have been extracted
   from a CONFIDENTIAL document. This classification was applied based on
   concern that the document, taken as a whole, might suggest a submarine
   application even though it was not explicitly stated. Given that the
   CONFIDENTIAL classification cannot be explicitly supported by the
   classification guides and that material similar to that briefed by the
   subject has been discussed in unclassified briefings and publications,
   it is difficult to make a case that significant damage has occurred.
   Further, bringing attention to our sensitivity concerning this subject
   in a public forum could cause more damage to national security than the
   original disclosure. Based on the above, it is recommended that the
   disclosure of this material should not be considered as the sole or
   primary basis for further legal action.88 On 19 November 1997, the
   Schuster memorandum was sent to Mr. Dion from Navy General Counsel
   Steven S. Honigman, who stated that he and the Vice Chief of Naval
   Operations concurred with Mr. Schuster's conclusions. The Schuster memo
   has been described by various DoJ officials as a "body blow" to the
   prosecution because of their view that it might be "Brady material" or
   in some way exculpatory as to Dr. Lee. At minimum, it seriously
   complicated DoJ's case. 30 The ambiguous Schuster memorandum was
   apparently designed to later enable the Navy to take virtually any
   position: the signal analysis techniques are unclassified; they could
   be classified SECRET; the material was extracted from a CONFIDENTIAL
   document; significant damage may not be provable; bringing the issue to
   a public forum could damage national security; avoid legal action. When
   Mr. Schuster was questioned by the Subcommittee, he was unable to
   explain why the memo was written as it was or what it meant. The most
   charitable view of the Schuster memo is that it was misleading and
   should never have been written. The Schuster memo was based on
   incomplete information since neither Mr. Schuster nor any other Navy or
   DoD personnel reviewed the video or audio tapes of Dr. Lee's
   confession. When that confession was reviewed at the Subcommittee's
   request, Mr. Schuster, along with Dr. Donna Kulla and Wayne Wilson,
   signed a memorandum dated 9 March 2000 stating that Dr. Lee's
   disclosures should have been classified CONFIDENTIAL. Two additional
   memoranda were made available to the Department of Justice regarding
   Dr. Lee's 1997 disclosures, but were apparently insufficient to change
   the view of the ISS line attorney handling the case. A classified 17
   November 1997 memorandum, referencing a conversation with Dr. Twogood,
   stated that, contrary to Mr. Schuster's opinion, what Dr. Lee revealed
   to the Chinese in 1997 should be considered SECRET. The memo provides
   substantial technical detail to make the case that Mr. Schuster was
   incorrect in his analysis. Lawrence Livermore followed up with another
   classified memorandum on 21 November 1997, citing the 31 opinions of
   both Dr. Twogood and Mr. Jim Brase, who was also knowledgeable of the
   Radar Ocean Imaging project. Most importantly, these memoranda explain,
   in considerable scientific detail, how the information Dr. Lee provided
   to the Chinese differed  in ways that made it classified  from what had
   been on the LLNL Web site, in Dr. Lee's 1995 article, and in Dr.
   Twogood's April 1994 House Armed Services Committee testimony. When
   questioned at a Subcommittee hearing on 29 March 2000, Mr. Schuster
   conceded that Dr. Twogood was the person to accurately evaluate Dr.
   Lee's disclosures: Senator Specter: Dr. Twogood testified that [Dr.
   Lee] gave away the heart, the core ... of the information. Would you
   disagree with that? Mr. Schuster: He was talking about the information
   in the program. That is not my program and I don't know that I could
   speak to the heart or core of that program. Senator Specter: So that is
   beyond the purview of your expertise or knowledge? Mr. Schuster: Yes,
   sir, relative to the program. Senator Specter: So based on your
   knowledge, you wouldn't have a basis for disagreeing with what Dr.
   Twogood said? Mr. Schuster: Not in that sense. I couldn't comment.89
   Mr. Schuster sought to explain his 14 November 1997 memo by saying that
   it was his intent to give his assessment to Captain Dewispeleare and
   not to the Department of Justice.90 Mr. Schuster testified that he
   never talked to anyone in the Department of Justice and had never been
   briefed as to how sensitive Navy and DoD information could be protected
   by the 32 Classified Information Procedures Act.91 This is in contrast
   to the prosecuting attorney, who testified, "We assured the Navy that
   we could very confidently protect any classified information primarily
   because it was my analysis that the stuff was less classified, less
   dangerous."92 On 21 May 1999, the Navy again weighed in on the subject,
   writing to the Cox Committee to assert that "the draft report
   mischaracterizes the substance and significance of the disclosure made
   by Lee during his trip to Beijing in 1997."93 The letter further takes
   issue with the Cox Committee Report draft for creating the: erroneous
   impression that the technology Lee discussed during his 1997 Beijing
   trip was highly sensitive and previously unknown, and that his
   disclosure to the PRC caused grave harm to the national security,
   imperiling our submarine forces. In the considered judgement of the
   Navy, fortunately that is not the case.94 When questioned about this
   letter, Mr. Preston had no facts to support his disagreement with the
   conclusions of the Cox Committee Report. He conceded that none of the
   individuals who had been involved in responding to the Cox Committee
   Report had ever had access to the tapes or transcripts of Dr. Lee's
   confession, had made no effort to obtain them, and therefore did not
   know the full extent of what he revealed.95 FISA Issues The loss of
   electronic surveillance on Dr. Lee occurred at a critical juncture that
   may have seriously hampered the Government's ability to collect
   important counter-intelligence information. When the Foreign
   Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court order expired on 3 33
   September 1997, it was not renewed. The FBI stated during testimony on
   29 March 2000 that the FISA had not been renewed for several reasons,
   including concerns within the DoJ's Office of Intelligence Policy and
   Review (OIPR) that the information on Dr. Lee was "too stale, "96 but
   OIPR disagrees with the FBI's characterization of what happened.97 In
   view of the disagreement as to what actually happened with the FISA
   request, it is only possible to conclude that the FBI should have
   pursued the matter by making a formal written request. The
   Counterintelligence Reform Act, which became law at the end of the
   106th Congress, will prevent future disputes over who is responsible
   for the loss of FISA coverage by providing a mechanism for the Director
   of the FBI to raise the matter directly with the Attorney General, who
   will be required to reply in writing. In this way, senior officials in
   both the FBI and the Department of Justice can be held accountable for
   their judgements on important espionage cases. Additional issues In
   addition to the disclosures of classified information for which Dr. Lee
   was charged, the Government knew that: 1) Dr. Lee asked for and
   received falsified travel documents from the Chinese, which he
   presented to the FBI on 3 September 1997,98 2) that his travel expenses
   in China were paid for by the Chinese,99 3) that he enlisted the
   assistance of Chinese officials associated with the CAEP in his attempt
   to deceive the FBI, and 4) that he confessed on videotape to
   intentionally passing classified information during his 1997 trip to
   China."100 The only charge arising from the events of 1997, however,
   pertained to Dr. Lee's false statements on his Post-Travel
   Questionnaire submitted to TRW.101 34 It seems apparent that obtaining
   false documents from a Chinese official would have warranted a separate
   count under 18 USC 1001, and would have shown that Dr. Lee's 1997
   transgressions extended beyond his lies to his employer. The
   Government's failure to highlight Dr. Lee's collusion with officials
   from the Chinese institutes where he visited resulted in an inaccurate
   portrait of his activities, one that was significantly less sinister
   than the reality of his conduct. Had this case enjoyed better
   communication within DoJ and better cooperation from the Navy, and a
   more aggressive approach by senior DoJ officials, Dr. Lee should have
   been charged or required to plead to at least four counts: 1) a 794
   charge for the 1985 hohlraum revelations, 2) a 794 charge for the 1997
   anti-submarine warfare revelations, 3) a false statements charge under
   18 USC 1001 for his lies on the TRW Post-Travel questionnaire, and 4) a
   1001 charge for submitting false travel documents that he got from the
   Chinese. Had these charges been filed, there is little doubt that the
   extent of Dr. Lee's espionage and attempted cover-up would have been
   made known. As it happened, the full range of Dr. Lee's felonious
   conduct was never presented to the Court. It should be noted that Judge
   Hatter could have requested additional information to gain a better
   understanding of the case, but he did not. DoE witnesses were present
   and prepared to testify in camera at the sentencing hearing regarding
   Dr. Lee's 1985 revelations. Had the Judge heard from these expert
   witnesses, the harm done by Dr. Lee's significant material assistance
   to the PRC nuclear weapons program could have been made clear to the
   Court. 35 Recommendations The single greatest problem the Government
   faced was its failure to come to terms with the significance of the
   information that Dr. Lee revealed to the PRC, both in 1985 and in 1997.
   Important were decisions were made without an adequate understanding of
   exactly what Dr. Lee had revealed and what were the consequences of
   those revelations. To prevent these problems from happening again, I am
   introducing legislation that would require victim agencies to produce a
   written "damage statement" which states the level of classification of
   the material alleged to have been revealed, and describes in detail the
   potential harm to national security from such revelations. The
   prosecution team should consider the "damage statement" before any
   decision is made as to whether the case should be taken to trial or a
   plea bargain should be offered. The Department of Justice and the
   victim agency may wish to consult informally before the damage
   assessment is reduced to writing so that the victim agency will not
   unwittingly and incorrectly create Brady102 problems and hamper any
   ultimate prosecution. The risks of creating potential Brady material
   as might happen if an initial classification assessment were later
   reviewed and changed  are obvious, but the risks of proceeding to a
   plea without a clear written statement, made by competent officials, as
   to the level of classification of the material in question are even
   greater. As noted previously, the Counterintelligence Reform Act, which
   became law in 36 December 2000, contains a provision requiring that the
   Justice Department provide briefings to victim agency officials
   regarding the manner in which the Classified Information Procedures Act
   enables a prosecution to go forward without revealing additional
   secrets. Contemporaneous written records, particularly the Schuster
   memo, make it clear that the Navy was reluctant to proceed with a
   prosecution due to sensitivity about a public discussion of
   anti-submarine warfare, but the process established by CIPA could have
   ensured that no sensitive information was disclosed. In the absence of
   any risk of disclosing classified information, the Navy's general
   unwillingness to have anti-submarine warfare discussed in a public
   proceeding should have had no bearing on the Government's decision to
   proceed with a prosecution. The briefing process established by the
   Counterintelligence Reform Act will ensure that any legitimate concerns
   of the victim agency are addressed, and that the Justice Department
   will be able to distinguish between real security concerns and a
   general unwillingness to support a prosecution. Although I do not
   intend to introduce legislation requiring it, I believe that key
   instructions from Main Justice (Internal Security Section, etc.) to the
   U.S. Attorney's Office with responsibility for prosecuting the case,
   including charging authority and plea bargain authority, should be in
   writing. These written instructions should be shared with the FBI and
   the victim agency so they have an opportunity for input before any
   final decisions are made. There can be no doubt that key officials in
   this case were operating under severe misunderstandings. The
   prosecuting attorney thought his instructions were that he had to
   accept a plea under Sections 793 and 1001 or nothing, while the
   Internal Security Section claimed that it was still open to a 37
   possible 794 prosecution. Key officials within the Department of
   Defense, up to and including the Secretary, were informed that if Dr.
   Lee refused the plea agreement, he would be prosecuted under Section
   794. With so much misunderstanding, it is surprising that the
   prosecution did not suffer even more. Conclusion This was an important
   espionage case, yet remarkably little was documented during the key
   weeks leading up to the plea agreement in late 1997. Decision-makers
   within the Department of Justice and the Department of Defense clearly
   have discretion in executing their responsibilities, and should not be
   second-guessed at every turn. However, the need to strike a balance
   between protecting the national security  which can conceivably be
   achieved by not prosecuting in certain circumstances  and the equal
   application of the laws to ensure justice is done, requires that when
   judgements are made for which the reasons are not immediately apparent,
   the decision-makers must offer some explanation for their actions. In
   the absence of such a documented rationale for what may be necessary
   exceptions, the result is what appears to be arbitrary application of
   the laws, an outcome which protects neither the national security nor
   the law. The Government's handling of the Dr. Peter Lee case
   demonstrates clearly that ongoing, thorough congressional oversight is
   essential. 38 Notes 1. Gilbert Cordova, "Affidavit in Support of
   Complaint, Arrest Warrant and Search Warrants: United States v. Peter
   Hoong-Yee Lee," undated: 16. 2. Robin Staffin, Deputy Assistant
   Secretary for Research and Development, Office of Defense Programs,
   Department of Energy; Notra Trulock III, Senior Intelligence Officer,
   Office of Energy Intelligence; and Joseph S. Mahaley, Director, Office
   of Security Affairs, "Impact Statement", 17 February 1998: 2. [DoJ
   Bates number 00116] 3. Robin Staffin, Deputy Assistant Secretary for
   Research and Development, Office of Defense Programs, Department of
   Energy; Notra Trulock III, Senior Intelligence Officer, Office of
   Energy Intelligence; and Joseph S. Mahaley, Director, Office of
   Security Affairs, "Impact Statement", 17 February 1998: 2. [DoJ Bates
   number 00116] 4. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), Hearing
   before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight
   and the Courts regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 52- 53.
   5. Wayne Wilson, John G. Schuster, and Donna Kulla, " MEMORANDUM FOR
   THE GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE," 9 March 2000: 1. 6.
   According to Section 1.3 of Executive Order 12958 (April 17, 1995,
   which superseded Executive Order 12356 of April 6, 1982), information
   is to be classified as "CONFIDENTIAL" if "the unauthorized disclosure
   of which reasonable could be expected to cause damage to the national
   security...." 7. Cox Committee Report, Vol. 1, 88. 8. John C. Keeney,
   Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division,
   Department of Justice, prepared statement submitted to the Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Concerning the Peter Lee Espionage Case," 12 April 2000: 6. 9. See
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), Hearing before the Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 14, 38-39 and 87-89.
   10. Prosecuting Attorney, Transcript of Interview with Senator Arlen
   Specter in Los Angeles, CA, 15 February 2000: 73-74. 11. Donna Kulla,
   interviewed by Charlie Battaglia in Washington, DC on 20 January 2000.
   39 12. Bruce Lake, e-mail to Dobie McArthur of January 28, 2000. Lists
   the following as dates of Peter Lee was employed by TRW: Original hire
   date: 06/18/73 to 10/08/76 Rehire date: 04/29/91 to 12/08/97 Retired
   eff.: 12/30/97. See also House of Representatives, Report of The United
   States House of Representatives Select Committee on U.S. National
   Security and Military/Commercial Concerns with the People's Republic of
   China, May 25, 1999, Vol. 1, 87- 88. [Hereinafter, Cox Committee
   Report] 13. Gilbert Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States
   vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97-1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 13. [DoJ
   Bates number 000085] 14. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United
   States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998:
   13-14. [DoJ Bates number 000085-000086] 15. Reporter's Transcript of
   Proceedings, United States of America, vs. Peter Lee, 26 March 1998:
   20. [DoJ Bates number 000023] 16. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of
   United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February
   1998: 13-14. [DoJ Bates number 000085-000086] 17. Cordova, Declaration
   in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97-
   1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 2. [DoJ Bates number 000074] 18. Cordova,
   Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR
   No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 16. [DoJ Bates number 000088] 19.
   Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee
   Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 14. [DoJ Bates number
   000086] 20. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs.
   Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 14-15. [DoJ
   Bates number 000086-000087] 21. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of
   United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February
   1998: 7. [DoJ Bates number 000079] 22. Cordova, Declaration in the
   Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27
   February 1998: 7. [DoJ Bates number 000079] 23. Cordova, Declaration in
   the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97-
   1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 16-17. [DoJ Bates number 000088-000089] 24.
   Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee
   Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 1. [DoJ Bates number 000089]
   40 25. See Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), Hearing before the
   Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the
   Courts regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 39. 26.
   Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee
   Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 10. [DoJ Bates number
   000082] 27. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs.
   Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 10-11. [DoJ
   Bates number 000082-000083] 28. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of
   United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February
   1998: 11-12. [DoJ Bates number 000083-000084] 29. Cordova, Declaration
   in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97-
   1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 12. [DoJ Bates number 000084] 30. Cordova,
   Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR
   No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 12. [DoJ Bates number 000084] 31.
   Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee
   Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 13. [DoJ Bates number
   000085] See also Government's Response to Defendant's Position with
   respect to Sentencing Factors; Declarations of [Prosecuting Attorney],
   23 March 1998: 5. [DoJ Bates number 000069] 32. INFORMATION, [18 USC
   793 (d): Attempt to Communicate National Defense Information to A
   Person Not Entitled To Receive It; 18 USC 1001: False Statement to
   Government Agency], undated, 1-3 [DoJ Bates number 000001-000003] 33.
   Nora M. Manella, Physicist Pleads Guilty to Transmitting Classified
   Defense Information to Representatives of the People's Republic of
   China, News Release, 8 December 1997: 1. [DoJ Bates number 000096] 34.
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee
   on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr.
   Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 90. 35. Nora M. Manella, Nuclear
   Physicist Sentenced to One Year in Custody for Passing Classified
   Defense Information to Scientists of the People's Republic of China,
   News Release, 26 March 1998: 1. [DoJ Bates number 000098] 36. See, for
   example, GOVERNMENT'S EX PARTE APPLICATION FOR ORDER UNSEALING PLEA
   AGREEMENT, 22 October 1999 [DoJ Bates number 00235-00240], and
   GOVERNMENT'S EX PARTE APPLICATION FOR ORDER UNSEALING GOVERNMENT'S
   SENTENCING POSITION AND GOVERNMENT'S FILING OF 41 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
   "Impact Statement", 25 October 1999 [DoJ Bates numbers 00252-00260] 37.
   Robin Staffin, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Research and Development,
   Office of Defense Programs, Department of Energy; Notra Trulock III,
   Senior Intelligence Officer, Office of Energy Intelligence; and Joseph
   S. Mahaley, Director, Office of Security Affairs, "Impact Statement",
   17 February 1998: 2. [DoJ Bates number 00116] 38. Robin Staffin, Deputy
   Assistant Secretary for Research and Development, Office of Defense
   Programs, Department of Energy; Notra Trulock III, Senior Intelligence
   Officer, Office of Energy Intelligence; and Joseph S. Mahaley,
   Director, Office of Security Affairs, "Impact Statement", 17 February
   1998: 2. [DoJ Bates number 00116] 39. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 5 April 2000: 53.
   40. ISS Line Attorney, Prepared Statement submitted to the Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Concerning the Peter Lee Espionage Case, 12 April 2000: 7. 41.
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee
   on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr.
   Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 37. 42. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 38.
   43. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 39. 44. Transcript of
   Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter
   Lee Case, 5 April 2000: 66. 45. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 67.
   46. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 67-68. 47. See the
   opinion of Mr. Justice Reed, in Gorin v. United States, 312 U.S. 19; 61
   S. Ct. 429; 1941 U.S. Lexis 1033; 85 L. Ed 488: at 14-15. 48. See the
   opinion of Mr. Justice Reed, in Gorin v. United States, 312 U.S. 19; 61
   S. Ct. 429; 1941 U.S. Lexis 1033; 85 L. Ed 488: at 5. 42 49. Transcript
   of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter
   Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 68. 50. See the opinion of Circuit Judge L.
   Hand, in United States v. Heine, 151 F.2nd 813; 1945 U.S. App. Lexis
   3049: at 8. 51. Reporter's Transcript of Proceedings, United States of
   America, vs. Peter Lee, 26 March 1998: 14. [DOJ Bates number 000017]
   52. Reporter's Transcript of Proceedings, United States of America, vs.
   Peter Lee, 26 March 1998: 25. [DOJ Bates number 000028]. See also
   Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee
   Lee CR No. 97-1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 18. [DOJ Bates number 000090]
   53. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 29. 54. Reporters
   Transcript of Proceedings, United States of America, vs. Peter Lee, 26
   March 1998: 21-22. [DoJ Bates number 000024-000025] 55. Transcript of
   Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter
   Lee Case, 5 April 2000: 15. See also Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 73.
   56. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 34-35. 57. Transcript
   of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter
   Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 36. 58. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 86.
   59. Prosecuting Attorney, Transcript of Interview with Senator Arlen
   Specter in Los Angeles, CA, 15 February 2000: 70-71. See also,
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee
   on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr.
   Peter Lee Case, 5 April 2000: 41,48. 60. Transcript of Proceedings
   (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative
   Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12
   April 2000: 90. 43 61. John C. Keeney, Principal Deputy Assistant
   Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, prepared
   statement submitted to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Concerning the Peter Lee
   Espionage Case," 12 April 2000: 6. 62. John C. Keeney, Principal Deputy
   Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice,
   prepared statement submitted to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Concerning the Peter Lee
   Espionage Case," 12 April 2000: 6. 63. Prosecuting Attorney,
   "Government's Position With Respect to Sentencing Factors: Declarations
   of [Prosecuting Attorney]," 27 February 1998: 7. 64. Department of
   Energy, ""Impact Statement," 17 February 1998: 3. [DoJ Bates number
   00117] 65. Gilbert Cordova, "Declaration of Gilbert R. Cordova," 23
   March 1998: 2. 66. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 61. 67.
   Prosecuting Attorney, Transcript of Interview with Senator Arlen
   Specter in Los Angeles, CA, 15 February 2000: 72. 68. Prosecuting
   Attorney, Transcript of Interview with Senator Arlen Specter in Los
   Angeles, CA, 15 February 2000: 76. 69. Prosecuting Attorney, Transcript
   of Interview with Senator Arlen Specter in Los Angeles, CA, 15 February
   2000: 72. 70. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 87-88. 71.
   SSA, National Security Law Unit, "Royal Tourist," e-mail to FBIHQ
   Supervisory Special Agent, 25 November 1997: 1. 72. Dan Bauer, Colonel,
   US Army, "Possible Espionage Arrest Update (U) - INFORMATION
   MEMORANDUM," MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, DEPUTY SECRETARY
   OF DEFENSE, 26 November 1997: 1. 73. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000:
   92-93. 44 74. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 40. 75. Jon P.
   Jennings, letter to Senator Orrin G. Hatch, 18 April 2000: 2. 76.
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee
   on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr.
   Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 93-94. 77. Cox Committee Report, Vol. 1,
   88. 78. Defense Criminal Investigative Service, "Report of
   Investigation," 11 September 1998: 2. [DoD Bates number D001003] 79.
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), Hearing before the Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 51. 80. Transcript of
   Proceedings (first draft), Hearing before the Senate Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts regarding the
   Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 52- 53. 81. Transcript of
   Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter
   Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 31. 82. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), Hearing before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts regarding the Dr. Peter Lee
   Case, 12 April 2000: 58. 83. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft),
   Hearing before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative
   Oversight and the Courts regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April
   2000: 58-59. 84. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 32-33. 85.
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee
   on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr.
   Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 34. 86. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 12 April 2000: 34.
   87. See Al Heiman, fax cover sheet of November 10, 1997 to FBI Special
   Agent Dave LeSueur, and Dr. Richard Twogood, memorandum to Bill
   Cleveland and Al Heiman, "Classification Guidelines", November 10,
   1997. 88. J.G. Schuster, Jr., "REQUEST FOR CLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE," 14
   November 1997. 45 89. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate
   Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts
   Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 100. 90.
   Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee
   on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr.
   Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 105-107. 91. Transcript of Proceedings
   (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative
   Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29
   March 2000: 106-107 92. Prosecuting Attorney, Transcript of Interview
   with Senator Arlen Specter in Los Angeles, CA, 15 February 2000: 63.
   93. Stephen Preston, General Counsel of the Navy, letter to the Cox
   Committee, 21 May 1999: 1. 94. Stephen Preston, General Counsel of the
   Navy, letter to the Cox Committee, 21 May 1999: 2. 95. Transcript of
   Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
   Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter
   Lee Case, 29 March 2000: 79. 96. Transcript of Proceedings (first
   draft), "Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and
   the Courts Hearing regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 29 March 2000:
   24-25. 97. Transcript of Proceedings (first draft), "Senate Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Hearing
   regarding the Dr. Peter Lee Case, 5 April 2000: 11. 98. Cordova,
   Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee Lee CR
   No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 12. [DoJ Bates number 000084] 99.
   Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter Hoong-Yee
   Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 7. [DoJ Bates number 000079]
   100. Cordova, Declaration in the Matter of United States vs. Peter
   Hoong-Yee Lee CR No. 97- 1181-TJH, 27 February 1998: 12. [DoJ Bates
   number 000084] 101. INFORMATION, United States of America v. Peter Lee,
   filed 5 December 1997: 3. [DoJ Bates number 000003] 102. See Brady v.
   Maryland 373 U.S. 83 (1963), in which the Supreme Court declared that,
   regardless of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecution, the
   suppression of evidence favorable to the accused violates due process
   where the evidence is material to either guilt or punishment. This
   court ruling imposes an obligation on the Government to provide to the
   defense any evidence or information in its possession which could be
   favorable to the accused. 46 47
