http://www.itl.nist.gov/div897/

   NIST

NIST NIST ITL                                                          NIST


                                                                            NIST
NIST NIST Software Quality Group NIST Standards and Conformance Testing
     Group NIST Interoperability Group


   Software Diagnostics and Conformance Testing Division

   "The mission of the Software Diagnostics and Conformance Testing
   Division is to develop software testing tools and methods that improve
   quality, conformance to standards and correctness. The division also
   participates with industry in the development of forward-looking
   standards."
   - Mark Skall, Divison Chief

   Bullet How SDCT Helps Industry to Succeed...
   Bullet How You, Members of Industry, Can Help Us Too...
   Bullet Our Partnership with Other Government Agencies...
   Visit Our Groups:
   [Software Quality Group_________________] Go

   Staff
   Contact Us
   Search SDCT
   NIST Centennial logo.
   Last modified January 29, 2002.

                             thin vertical line

                                  Projects:
                                    NIST
                             Electronic Commerce
      Developing standards, conformance tests, and tools to ensure the
              quality of software and conformance to standards.
                 primary bullet XML Technologies Conformance
                      (XML, DOM, XSLT, XSL-FO, Schema)
                         primary bullet XML Registry
                        primary bullet Interactive TV
             primary bullet Metadata Descriptions and Registries
                             Pervasive Computing
   Investigating standardization, measurement and interoperability issues
       by developing simulation tools, prototypes, and testing tools.
                            primary bullet Aroma
                             primary bullet ADL
                            Test Method Research
        Developing techniques and tools to improve the development of
        specifications, software tests, and the quality of software.
                  primary bullet Automatic Test Generation
            primary bullet Software Component Integration Testing
                     primary bullet Quantum Information
                             Computer Forensics
    Developing of reference materials and test methods in support of the
                         law enforcement community.
             primary bullet National Software Reference Library
                      primary bullet Tool Verification
                                 Healthcare
    Developing reference implementations and software tools in support of
                             healthcare systems.
                primary bullet Healthcare Information Systems

                             thin vertical line
                              Use Our Products

   Events:

   SDCT News: Television Data Applications (NIST GCR 01-818). The NIST
   funded report "Television Data Applications" (NIST GCR 01-818)
   characterizes Interactive TV (ITV) applications, identifying those
   types of applications which can be implemented in the different ITV
   environments. The report which has been distributed within the TV
   industry is also publicly available. For more information go to SDCT
   News.
   XML SCHEMA Conformance Test Suite Now Available. NIST has developed and
   released conformance tests for the built-in simple datatypes defined in
   the W3C Recommendation XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes. A description of
   the tests and the tests themselves are freely available at:
   www.nist.gov/xml/ select "XML Schema."
   XSL Conformance Test Suites Now Available. NIST has developed and
   released conformance tests for both Formatting Objects (XSL-FO) and XSL
   Transformations (XSLT/Xpath). The XSL-FO tests were developed as part
   of a larger testing effort within the W3C XSL-FO subgroup. Currently
   there are over 600 tests. The XSLT/Xpath tests were developed by NIST
   for inclusion in the OASIS XSLT/XPath test suite. Currently, there are
   over 200 tests that exercise various XSLT/Xpath features. The test
   suites are freely available at: www.nist.gov/xml/.


                                  SDCT News
                               Success Stories
                                Testimonials

   PRIVACY/SECURITY ISSUES
   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.
   Created on February 1, 2001. SDCT Division Webmaster:
   webmaster-sdct@nist.gov
