http://www.la.nrcs.usda.gov/Public%20Information/New%20Publications/new%20pubs.htm


   Severe erosion site improved with grassed waterway conservation measure
   Louisiana - USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service Is conservation
   worth it? You bet it is!

                       louisiana gif.GIF (2888 bytes)
      Every day, NRCS keeps its commitment to protecting and conserving
                natural resources on America's private lands.


   [ISMAP:row_of_vert_grn_buttons_7-27-01.gif]-Click on area of interest
   Send mail to the Louisiana WebmasterPlease send us your comments
   regarding this web site.

   New Publications
   Thank you for your interest in our publications.  Click a button below
   to view the publication of your choice.

   All files may be viewed using Adobe Acrobat PDF (Portable Document
   Format). To view these files in PDF you will need to download the Adobe
   Acrobat Reader. Acrobat and the Acrobat logo are trademarks of Adobe
   Systems Incorporated.

   To download a free version of Adobe Acrobat Reader, click here:  Click
   to Download a Free Copy of Adobe Acrobat Reader.
   Aging Watershed Structures-click here for an Adobe Acrobat Reader
   version of this document. Bayou Bourbeux Watershed document - click
   here for an Adobe Acrobat Reader version of this document. Dietary
   Analysis, A New Management Tool for Louisiana Cattlemen - click here
   for an Adobe Acrobat Reader version of this document. Conservation on
   Louisiana's Private Lands 2001 - click here for an Adobe Acrobat Reader
   version of this document.
   Lac Des Allemands River Basin Initiative - click here for an Adobe
   Acrobat Reader version of this document. Conservation in the Lake
   Pontchartrain Basin - click here for an Adobe Acrobat Reader version of
   this document. Lower Mississippi Valley Initiative Brochure - click
   here

   For more information on NRCS programs and activities, contact:
   Herb Bourque, State Public Affairs Specialist, (318) 473-7762
   Holly Martien, Public Affairs Specialist, (318) 473-7753
   Paul Wallace, Visual Information Specialist, (318) 473-7778

    The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in
    all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national
    origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual
    orientation, and marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases
        apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require
    alternative means for communication of program information (Braille,
    large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at
                        202-720-2600 (voice and TDD).

   To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of
      Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence
   Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice or
          TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.
