http://www.nywg.cap.gov/UpdateCC.htm

                              "Information Update"

   Periodicaly the NYW Commander issues an information update via email.
   These will be published here for reference. Click on the date to reach
   the update you wish to review.

   The following document (Adobe format) is the changes to the
   Organization and Management of CAP

   3 December Update

   17 December Update

   17 December 2000
   In recent months there has been a great deal of dissatisfaction with
   what many perceive to be unreasonable requests for information and
   accountability from various Wing staffers to Groups regarding "their"
   aircraft and vans. I wanted to take a few moments of your time to
   explain what has been happening at National HQ that affects how they
   view our stewardship of their assets.
   The surprise audits by the FBI and OSI at National HQ earlier this year
   uncovered what they felt to be substandard tracking of aircraft and
   vehicle repairs and procurement, and no clear policy as to what Wings
   and Regions would be getting new assets, and by what criteria these
   assets would be assigned. The upshot of this was new, more stringent
   policies for the reimbursement of repairs, and the
   mandating of a positive tracking system for aircraft hours and vehicle
   mileage.
   As you can appreciate, the burden for these new reporting policies
   falls squarely on the shoulders of the volunteers at the Group and
   Squadron levels. Please understand that if a Wing staffer asks for
   information that you never had to supply before, or imposes a deadline
   that seems unreasonable, it IS NOT because Wing wants to make more
   paperwork for you (or ourselves!). Rather, it is because
   we will lose aircraft and vans if we cannot show we care enough to do
   some simple monthly reporting to National, via Wing. This imposes a
   burden on Wing staff, as well, but I can appreciate how frustrating it
   is on the local level to have to provide information that was never
   requested before, and do so according to a strict schedule that may
   well seem unreasonable for volunteers. Believe me,
   we don't like it any more than you do.
   However, we have no choice. In January, one of our aircraft, N998CP,
   will be taken from New York Wing by National HQ and given to Mideast
   Region. The reason? Due to the fact that some Groups were late in
   reporting their August and September aircraft hours to the National
   website, our fiscal year 2000 total hours were only based upon 12 (not
   17) airplanes for August and September. Because 25
   days after the end of the fiscal year, 5 aircraft showed no hours for
   two of the heaviest flying months of the year, our average number of
   annual hours flown per aircraft fell below the magic 200 hour figure.
   For the record, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and Maine also lost an
   aircraft each, though the irony here is that, had we reported all our
   aircraft hours on time, we would NOT have lost an
   airplane, because we really DID fly 200 hours per aircraft last year!
   Unfair? You bet. However, despite my best efforts pleading with the
   Region Commander and our National Executive Director, I was unable to
   get them to change their decision. This policy they have imposed on us
   will also hold true for vans. If a Group cannot get the hours reported
   to Wing by the deadline National set, they will begin to take our
   vehicles away and give them to Wings with better record keeping skills.
   The way they look at it, they give the Wing aircraft and vehicles, pay
   for a good portion of their maintenance and upkeep, and in return
   expect us to fulfill our end of the bargain by reporting hours and
   mileage every month, on their schedule.
   Please understand that Wing is not taking this airplane away. Region is
   not taking this airplane away. National is taking it away, because they
   feel we must not want our aircraft very much if we can't be bothered to
   meet some simple deadlines. They are punishing us, plain and simple,
   for not meeting their deadline. They feel that if we are too busy to
   report our aircraft hours or vehicle mileage monthly, or can't be
   bothered to get advanced approval before major maintenance, they will
   reassign our vans and aircraft to
   other Wings who can manage to follow their new, stricter rules. That's
   just the way it is.
   This new attitude also carries through to maintenance. National WILL
   NOT reimburse the Wing for ANY work done on aircraft or vehicles that
   was not approved in advance. Period. They don't care that Cadets might
   not get to an event, or a ground team might not be able to prosecute a
   mission, or an aircrew not follow up on an AFRCC call to find an ELT.
   They need to show any future auditor that they
   have a handle on maintenance costs, and that they have some semblance
   of control over what Wings do with "their" aircraft and vehicles. Since
   Wing has virtually no sources of income, we can't blindly pay any bills
   submitted by Groups for repairs not approved in advance, since we won't
   be reimbursed by National.
   Blame me or my staff all you like, but the bitter truth is that this
   thankless job requires I not sugar coat the realities we will live
   under from now on in CAP, through no fault of our own. If you wish to
   consider the stating of these facts threats or harassment, so be it. If
   you want to make me the enemy, and blame the Wing Commander every time
   we lose an aircraft or van, be my guest. But I would
   not be doing my job if I didn't tell you the truth about what is
   happening. That's my responsibility, and my obligation. I am very often
   forced to pass along unreasonable or difficult directives from
   National, each time knowing that our financial state and our aircraft
   and vehicles are being held hostage to how well we comply with the next
   directive from our National HQ.
   I learned long ago you can't fight city hall, and I am struggling to
   keep our Wing and it's assets together against difficulties not of our
   making, both inside and out. I need you to understand that blaming
   myself and the Wing staff might personalize the problem and be more
   satisfying, but in the end, I would not be doing my job or fulfilling
   my responsibilities to you if I pretended that the problem would go
   away if we just ignored it.
   In the final analysis, the new requirements aren't so difficult, and
   had they been in place since the beginning of CAP, I suspect none of us
   would find them so unreasonable. For those actually entrusted with the
   reporting responsibilities, it is frustrating to suddenly have all your
   hard work seem unappreciated, and now as a volunteer you are being
   asked to do still more. Believe me, the staff and I
   truly appreciate how difficult it is to squeeze in a job, family and
   real life around the increasing demands CAP puts on us all, and I want
   to take this opportunity to thank you for all you do for New York Wing.
   I know that many of you have bristled at the suggestion that you would
   need to clear any work done to "your" airplane or van with Wing, or
   that failure to report the hours or mileage might cause National to
   take it away, but the Region Commander has made it very clear that
   Wings that don't report their hours and mileage properly and on time
   will LOSE assets; Wings that DO follow the rules and report on time
   will be the ones to GAIN assets at the expense of the losers.
   I don't know about you, but I don't intend to be one of the losers.
   With your help, we'll be one of the winners.
   //s//
   RICHARD A. GREENHUT, Col, CAP
   Commander, New York Wing

   3 November 2000

   In the last few weeks your Wing staff has been working to close out the
   books on fiscal year 2000, and to summarize our accomplishments
   and achievements for the past year. Unfortunately, one of the first
   things that popped to the surface as we began this analysis was the
   fact that the Wing was having some serious financial problems.

   Upon closer examination, it seems that our current problems stem from
   the fact that our current flight hour rates are so low that we actually
   LOSE money for each and every hour one of our members flies! Since
   rates have not been raised at the Wing level since at least 1993, the
   recent gasoline price hikes and higher cost of parts and labor have
   made our current rate structure untenable. Obviously, this cannot
   continue.

   For this reason, as of 01 January 2001, New York Wing will be forced to
   raise the rate it charges the Groups for all flying (regardless of
   aircraft type) by $5 per hour. The actual rate you will pay for a
   specific aircraft will depend upon the surcharge (if any) your local
   Group adds to the cost Wing charges them for the aircraft.

   As a pilot, as much as I hate to raise the costs of flying to our
   members, an informal survey of costs charged by other Wings in our
   Region shows New York Wing well behind our neighbors in what our
   members pay to fly our aircraft. And our costs are still roughly half
   of what you might pay if you were to try and rent a similarly-equipped
   Cessna 172 or 182 from a local FBO . . . assuming you could find one
   with a DF unit and CAP radio!

   Ironically, when our members get free flying because they are on an Air
   Force-assigned mission or a CD mission, the Wing actually MAKES money,
   assuming the member properly and promptly submits a CAPF 108 after the
   mission! The Air Force and DEA recognize the actual costs of operating
   our aircraft, and reimburse us accordingly. This is why you are not
   doing the Wing a favor when you decide to forego the CAPF 108 because
   it is too much trouble, and actually pay for the flying yourself. Group
   CCs DOs, please take note.

   Additionally, I am attaching (for those of you who can get attachments)
   a copy of my Fiscal Year 2001 Wing Plan. Separate .ZIP files containing
   both MS Word and Adobe .PDF files are attached for those of you who can
   receive attachments. Please feel free to share your thoughts,
   suggestions and proposed additions (positive or otherwise) with myself
   or another member of Wing staff.

   Your ideas can help us become an even better Wing in 2001!


   NYW Plan for 2001    (Word document)

   NYW Plan for 2001    (Adobe Reader format)


   Return to NYW main page
