http://www.ohnd.uscourts.gov/About_the_Court/about_the_court.html

    [clearpixel.gif] [courtseal.jpg] [clearpixel.gif]
   Welcome to the US District Court, Northern District of Ohio


   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]      [clearpixel.gif]

                                     Historical Information

     List of Chief Judges

     List of District Judges

     List of Magistrate Judges

     List of Clerks of Court

     History of OHND Judgeships
   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Click here to see a larger (90kb) image

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   About the Court

   The Northern District of Ohio was formed on February 10, 1855, when
   Congress divided the Ohio District, created in 1803, into two
   Districts: the Northern District and the Southern District. Hiram V.
   Wilson was appointed first District Judge for the Northern District
   with court held in Cleveland. In 1878, the Northern District was
   divided into two divisions known as the Eastern and Western Divisions.
   The terms of court for the Western Division were to be held in Toledo
   and the Eastern Division to be held in Cleveland.
   Currently, the United States District Court for the Northern District
   of Ohio holds court in Cleveland, Akron, Toledo and Youngstown and
   serves the 5.9 million citizens of the 40 most northern counties in
   Ohio. With 12 authorized district judgeships, it is among the 15
   largest U.S. district courts. The district is fortunate to have 4
   senior judges and 8 magistrate judges sharing the Courts workload. The
   Northern District of Ohio is proud to have been the first Court ever to
   permit attorneys to file documents over the Internet. Beginning in
   January, 1996, with the maritime asbestos litigation and expanding the
   program to selected civil cases in November, 1997, the Court has
   permitted attorneys to file documents electronically using a prototype
   system developed by the Technology Enhancement Office of the
   Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts.
   A view of the juror box in the electronic courtroom We have installed
   some of the most technologically advanced electronic courtrooms in the
   country in Akron, Cleveland, Toledo and Youngstown. Each courtroom is
   equipped with an evidence presentation system through which counsel can
   display exhibits, realtime transcripts, video recordings, or multimedia
   presentations. The systems include document cameras for displaying
   documents, x-rays and three-dimensional objects; 15" flat panel video
   displays on counsel tables, the judges bench and between jurors;
   technology-ready counsel tables from which multi-media presentations or
   images from a portable computer can be displayed to any monitor in the
   courtroom; realtime court reporter transcription; a visual image
   printer; a tablet and light pen; a VCR; and infrared equipment for
   listening assistance and language interpretation. Rave reviews about
   the electronic courtrooms have been provided by jurors, attorneys, and
   judges which note that these technologies contribute to the efficiency
   and effectiveness of court proceedings.

   As a demonstration district for differentiated case management as well
   as an early implementation district under the Civil Justice Reform Act
   of 1990, the Northern District of Ohio adopted a Differentiated Case
   Management (DCM) Plan, a wide menu of Alternative Dispute Resolution
   (ADR) options and a Pending Inventory Reduction Plan (PIRP) to manage
   its civil caseload. These programs have been highly successful and
   remain popular with the bench and the bar. Much of the districts
   success in maintaining current dockets during times of increasing case
   filings and judicial shortages can be attributed to these programs
   under which the Court continues to operate.
   Recently, the district has appointed two new magistrate judges, seen
   the construction of the new Cleveland Court House rise from ground
   level to its full height, conducted a districtwide workshop focusing on
   electronic filing that was attended by all judicial officers and staff
   and that resulted in a six-fold expansion of the cases being
   electronically filed, achieved a record high in criminal case closings
   and reduced both its civil and criminal pending dockets to their lowest
   levels in the past decade.

   The court also hosted the exhibit Marching Toward Justice, a tribute to
   the late Justice Thurgood Marshall, which was created to inform the
   public about the fundamental importance of the 14th Amendment and our
   nation's ongoing quest to realize the high ideals of the Declaration of
   Independence.
   Click for more information about the structure of the Federal Courts,
   or refer to frequently asked questions about the Federal Judiciary. For
   an overview of the Federal Judiciary click here. [acrobat-icon.gif]

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    [Line.gif]

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   Home   About the Court   Attorney Info   Clerks Office   ECF   Judges
   Juror Info   On-Line Forms   U.S. Probation   Links   Help [Help.gif]
