http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/textver/t_main.htm

                     Federal Consumer Information Center
                              Pueblo, Colorado

   Welcome to our Text Page! (For the graphical version of this page,
   click here.)

   The red links on the left will take you to hundreds of consumer
   publications that you can read or order on-line. Use the blue links on
   the right for searching, consumer news, and links. Explore, learn, have
   fun. Don't forget to bookmark us before you leave!

        Topics          Resources

                                                  Site Map
                                                   Search
                                                    Order
                                        Publications (graphical only)
                                                 In The News
                                                 Press Room
                                         Frequently Asked Questions
                                                    Links
                                                  About Us
                                                  Fun Stuff

              Cars
            Children
            Computers
            Education
           Employment
        Federal Programs
              Food
             Health
             Housing
              Money
         Small Business
             Travel
           And More...

                          Consumer Help
                           Call Center
                            Kids.Gov
                        (graphical only)
                             Recalls
                         Scams / Frauds

   Parade Magazine and AARP Bulletin -- Free FDIC Special Report "Are You
   Sure You're Fully Insured?"

   Privacy Resources:
   In this Internet age, sometimes our personal information can seem a
   little exposed. Check out these links to learn how to protect your
   privacy rights, your kids' privacy, your medical and financial
   information and more.

   Publication of the Week:
   Consumer's Almanac   Here's a great way to get a handle on your
   finances. Learn how to organize your income and living expenses, manage
   your credit, and how to meet your future goals through saving and
   investing. It also features an Annual Income, Savings and Expense Chart
   to help you plan for the year ahead and monthly calendar pages to help
   you control your income and expenses month-to-month.

   Consumer Focus:
   Handling Consumer Complaints  Now that the holidays are over and all
   the presents are unwrapped, it's time to relax, right? But what if your
   expensive new electronic toy stopped working by New Year's Eve?
   Sometimes the consumer complaint process can seem complicated and
   intimidating. Well, you've come to the right place. We've put together
   all the information you need to get your complaint resolved quickly.

        Check out our Consumer Focus Archive

                      America Responds to Terrorism
   FCIC has put together a list of publications to help you and your
   family during this difficult time. Read more on Coping with Crisis.
   Also check out Suspicious Mail: What You Can Do.

   Federal Benefits and Services
   We live in a great country. Our government provides a wide variety of
   benefits and services to Americans. FCIC is proud to present our
   Federal Benefits and Services page. This page contains links to sites
   for Social Security, Veteran's Benefits, Medicare, Children's Health
   Insurance, Home Heating and Cooling Assistance and much, much, more.

   Consumer Action Website
   Up in the air about where to get help with a consumer problem? Like
   that stubborn refrigerator you just bought? The new Consumer Action
   Website is now available. Based on the 2002 Consumer Action Handbook,
   the newly updated website is the one consumer guide that you must have.
   And you are welcome to use it for free, visit our Consumer Action
   Website

   National Call Center
   Have a telephone and a question about Federal agencies, programs,
   benefits, or services? The National Call Center is only a toll-free
   call away. Each year, our staff handles millions of calls from citizens
   who are trying to find that elusive answer to their question. Call us
   weekdays toll-free at 1 (800) 688-9889 (TTY 1-800-326-2996) between 9
   a.m. and 8 p.m. eastern time (except Federal holidays). Our staff can
   answer your question or get you to someone who can. We also have
   recordings of frequently requested information available around the
   clock.

   Looking for books advertised in the media?
   If you saw a publication offer in a magazine or newspaper recently and
   we know about it (not always the case), you'll find it linked to this
   page.

   What's New @ FCIC
   See the most recent items that have been added to our website.

   FCIC's Consumer Information Catalog
   Has loads of great publications on a variety of topics. View and order
   them on-line, call, or mail in an order. Sign up to distribute bulk
   quantities of the Catalog.
   Get a free catalog

   E-mail Updates:
   We now have two e-mail lists to keep the world informed on what is
   going on at the Federal Consumer Information Center.
   FEDINFO - for the general public, these are mailed 4-6 times a year
   with updates, notifications of new information and special offers.
   MEDIALIST - primarily for print and broadcast media, these releases are
   mailed biweekly and give tips from publications listed on our web site
   and in the quarterly Catalog. Click here to subscribe.

   Privacy Policy
   Security Statement
   FirstGov  Your first click to the U.S. Government.

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
