http://www.graysreef.nos.noaa.gov/ocean_fest_2001.html


   [grnms.jpeg]

   General Information

   research

   education

   Shades of Gray

   Jane Yarn Cruise Reports

   buoy data

   Sanctuary Advisory Council

   local news and other sites

   underwater pictures

   sanctuaries homepagehomepage

                                [GRNMSlogo.jpg]

   Gray's Reef 3rd Annual Ocean Fest
   Begins Year Long 20th Anniversary Celebration

   This year's Gray's Reef Ocean Fest was the third of its kind, and it
   proved that Reed Bohne and Silver Man it is hard to improve on a good
   idea. It was another stellar event. And well it should have been
   considering this was the premiere event kicking off a year long series
   of events in celebration of our 20th Anniversary.

   The tight harmony of Call the Cops' (our favorite local rock and roll
   band) rendition of a familiar Beatles' tune "Paper Back Writer"
   heralded the opening of the afternoon long fest. The band rocked River
   Street bringing in tourists and residents alike to gather at the river
   for toe tapping and finger snapping entertainment, touchy feely
   discovery exhibits and down right fun education in ocean science and
   technology. Some of the smaller set even came away sea creature body
   art. Their little cheeks sported dolphins, turtles, fish and even some
   flowers......sea flowers? Exhibitors from coastal area ocean related
   organizations displayed their materials with well over 1000 people of
   all ages and various nationalities and ethnic groups pouring over them
   during the event's five hour run. Many exhibitors provided hands-on
   activities for the kids. Tybee Island Marine Science Horseshoe crab
   Mare Center featured preserved sea creatures that participants could
   touch and investigate. Tybee Island 4-H Center drew large crowds with
   their colorful corn snakes that entwined the arms of some brave kids
   while their parents' looked on from a few feet back. Caretta Project,
   winners of last year's Environmental Hero Award, displayed Loggerhead
   Sea Turtle bones and shells while staff told of their natural history.
   Crowds gathered around UGA's Marine Education Center table to look at
   their many specimens and to talk to a horseshoe crab and a sea turtle
   costumed staffers. This reptilian and arthropod odd couple were even
   seen dancing to the tunes. The Sapelo Island National Estuarine
   Research Reserve attracted grown-ups and kids alike with their
   microscopes set for viewing plankton. The Reef Environmental Education
   Foundation (REEF) information was displayed by the Island Dive Center
   on St. Simons Island. Island Dive Center conducts REEF fish counts each
   year on Gray's Reef with volunteer help. Their TV monitor played a
   video loop of their volunteers in action counting fish on Gray's Reef.
   Gray's Reef of course exhibited photographic images from the reef as
   well as a video loop of footage shot on the reef. Give-aways included
   Rivers to Reefs posters, Gray's Reef refrigerator magnets as well as
   brochures. The biggest attraction at the Gray's Reef exhibit however
   was the submersible DeepWorker 2000 model. These small one person subs
   are used to explore areas too deep for divers or when longer
   observational periods are desired than can be accomplished on SCUBA.
   The sub always a big hit had kids of all ages (some well over 50!)
   climbing in to become an ear-to-ear grinning pilot for a moment and to
   have their picture snapped inside the dome. Gray's Reef volunteers from
   Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD) helped kids Face painting
   make sea creature prints and painted sea creatures on their cheeks.
   They also set up the display of the creative and colorful entries
   submitted to Gray's Reef's Kid's Art and Poetry contest. Students from
   local elementary schools competed for the prizes which are being given
   in separate ceremonies at the schools. Ribbons festooned the winning
   entries in the art contest which had over 70 entries representing the
   best from each of 15 different schools. One blue ribbon was awarded the
   best poem out of 19 entries. All the poems and paintings were of ocean
   related subjects in keeping with the festival's theme. Music kept
   luring the crowds off the sidewalks, and out of restaurants, bars and
   shops along River Street to our event. The sets of music alternated
   between the 70's and 80's rock and roll of Call the Cops and the really
   old golden oldies of the 40's and 50's and some 60's of The World
   Famous Crabettes - apropos for the event's ocean related theme. The
   Crabettes serenaded the crowd with their "umpapa" style medleys as well
   as Irish and show tune favorites. Crabettes Many folks joined in to
   sing along and some to dance the two step. The Crabettes featured three
   accordions, two keyboards, one clarinet, one voice, a dancing parrot
   and silly crab hats and vests. Its hard not to smile and tap your toes
   when Savannah's finest take to the stage.

   Of the more than a thousand event goers nearly a third toured the NOAA
   Ship, Ferrel. Stationed in strategic places around the 135' ship the
   crew dressed in their crisp summer whites answered questions about
   their clean and well equipped floating oceanographic lab. The Ferrel at
   dock for the weekend and for Ocean Fest came in port to prepare for
   Gray's Reef staff and various scientific parties to conduct research on
   the reef and surrounding offshore waters that following week. The many
   projects done in past years have been highly productive with a few
   projects requiring round the clock work. The projects included water
   quality analysis and chemical contaminant analysis of sediments as well
   as body burdens of various fish and invertebrates and investigations of
   the life history and population dynamics of various species of fish. To
   close Ocean Fest Call the Cops rocked out for the last hour. NOAA Ship
   Ferrel The music was intoxicating and enticed dancers of all ages to
   move to the lively beats. At times kids and parents danced free style
   with arms waving, feet shuffling and other body parts shaking. When
   five o'clock rolled around all seemed hesitant to leave. Call the Cops
   complied with a few more tunes, and then the day was done. Our
   appreciation to the exhibitors for educating and informing, the
   entertainers for making us smile and sing and dance and the crew of the
   Ferrel for hosting tours, making this another successful Ocean Fest. It
   was a day well spent in this initial celebration of Gray's Reef's 20th
   Anniversary!

   Take a look at Ocean Fest 2000!

   back to top of the page
