http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/ND_action_plan/edialogue.htm

                        Electronic National Dialogue

                         On Transportation Operations

              The Vision: "Managing and operating the existing
             transportation system so that its performance meets
                     or exceeds customer expectations."

   The Electronic National Dialogue on Transportation Operations
   (E-Dialogue) has been established to allow you to share ideas, thoughts
   and/or comments with others on how we can meet this vision. Through
   this open forum, your colleagues will be able to review and respond to
   your ideas, thereby continuing the dialog that will lead to increased
   productivity and safety of the total transportation network in the U.S.
   Through the use of the Web and innovative software, we encourage you to
   take part in vigorous discussions like those that many of you
   participated in during the Transportation Operations Conference
   conducted by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in Irvine,
   California. In essence, you will be part of a brain trust that will be
   helping to define actions to carry out our common management and
   operations mission. The E-Dialogue on Transportation Operations is
   funded by the U.S. Federal Highway Administration and is administered
   by ITE.

   To make the E-Dialogue as effective and enjoyable to its users as
   possible, we ask that you follow a few simple rules. Make sure that
   your message postings are "on topic," that is, that they relate to some
   aspect of transportation operations and/or the national operations
   dialog. Limit your discussions to professional issues and conduct those
   discussions in a professional manner. Posting of messages related to
   positions available, positions wanted, advertisements for your firm, or
   other promotional material is strictly prohibited.

   Posting new comments on the E-Dialogue’s on-line bulletin board is very
   easy -- simply go to the home page (that contains a discussion index
   where all of the recent comments are listed) and click on the link at
   the top entitled "Post New Message." A posting form will then display
   on your browser. Simply fill in the boxes. You can "preview" the
   message and then post it, or post it directly. Replying to existing
   messages is likewise very easy: simply click on the "Post Response"
   link at the top of a message that you wish to respond to, fill in the
   form provided, and then preview or post your message. Your browser will
   return to the E-Dialogue home page (index page) after you have
   submitted your message or response.

   Because the Electronic National Dialogue is a moderated discussion
   forum, all new message postings are put in a queue for the content
   moderator to review and approve or reject. That process may take as
   little as a few minutes or as much as a day or two, depending on the
   moderator’s availability. Your message has a high likelihood of
   approval if you have followed the few simple rules described above.

   We encourage you to visit the E-Dialogue home page often to view the
   new discussion topics and threads. As an added bonus, you can sign up
   to receive an email digest (single email message) containing all new
   messages at 7 AM (Eastern Time) each morning, Monday through Friday.
   Simply click on the "(Un)Subscribe" link at the top of the Electronic
   National Dialogue home page, provide your email address in the space
   provided, then press the "Send Address" button. Use the same process to
   unsubscribe, except make sure that the "Delete Address from List"
   button is checked.

   The E-Dialogue bulletin board home page (index page) can be customized
   to change both the order of the message index (chronological,
   by-thread, etc.) as well as the number of messages that you see. Simply
   click on the "Set Preferences" link from the E-Dialogue home page and
   follow the instructions provided.

   We encourage your feedback and welcome your questions and inquiries.
   Please forward any content questions to the content moderator (Richard
   Easley, reasley@e-squared.org) and any operational questions to the
   E-Dialogue webmaster (Jerry Werner, jerrycw@attglobal.net).

        Welcome to the Electronic National Dialogue on Transportation
                                 Operations!

                                  eDialogue
