http://www.cityofhouston.gov/abouthouston/tourism.html

   City of Houston

   Home

       Services

               About Houston

                            Mayor's Office

                                          Elected Officials

                                                           City Desk

   About Houston > Tourism


   Port of Houston

   San Jacinto Battleground

   Six Flags Astroworld

   Space Center Houston

   Texas Medical Center

Tourism

   Fun in the Bayou City is easy to find. Houston's downtown has been
   revitalized with the opening of Bayou Place, as well as numerous
   restaurants and musical entertainment that has helped bring nightlife
   back to downtown. And that's in addition to the rest of the City's
   attractions, shopping and restaurants to fit all budgets.

     * Dining in Houston is a treat. While here you can indulge in one of
       the more than 11,000 restaurants ranging from award-winning and
       upscale to memorable deli shops. In fact, Houston has more
       gold-medal award-winning restaurants than any other city in the
       United States. It's no wonder Houstonians eat out more than
       residents of any other city in the country.
     * Houstonians love to shop and they have many places to indulge in
       the City's unofficial pastime. From bargain basement shops to
       upscale stores specializing in the hard-to-find items, Houston is a
       shopper's dream. And every Houstonian knows about the Galleria,
       legendary for its variety of shops and international ambiance. For
       many, an afternoon spent there strolling and window-shopping is the
       ultimate escape. Of course, you can always sit in one of its
       numerous restaurants and watch the ice skaters and other shoppers,
       or just indulge in one of the many other treats available.
     * Still want something else to do? Six Flags AstroWorld ushers in
       spring with the March opening of its 85-acre entertainment complex
       filled with exciting rides, shows, water sports and attractions,
       while its sibling, WaterWorld, makes a splash in April. Both are
       great for family fun.
     * An out of this world experience awaits those who explore Space
       Center Houston, NASA's official visitor's center, located south of
       Houston. A little further south, Moody Gardens in Galveston is a
       one-stop destination for year-round fun featuring a huge aquarium
       pyramid, rainforest pyramid and two IMAX theaters. The fascinating
       Lone Star Flight Museum is next door.
     * In the heart of Houston, downtown's Bayou Place keeps the beat with
       a slew of urban dining and entertainment options. Or you can take a
       drive east to visit the famed San Jacinto Battleground, the site of
       Texas' independence from Mexico, or west to George Ranch Historical
       Park, a living history museum.
     * Just north of the City is one of the country's largest outdoor
       markets, Traders Village, as well as Mother Nature's sanctuary,
       Mercer Arboretum. In addition to Galveston and Clear Lake, heading
       south points you toward a day at the races at Gulf Greyhound Park
       or a back-to-nature excursion at Armand Bayou Nature Center. Nature
       lovers can also find a bountiful wildlife retreat at the Houston
       Arboretum, near Memorial Park.

   Check with the Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau for more
   information on restaurants and shopping in Houston. And if all of this
   still isn't enough, find out what you can do in Arts and Entertainment
   and Sports and Recreation.

   Help | Privacy Policy | Site Index
                                                                Texas Online

             COH welcomes your input on how to improve this site

   www.cityofhouston.gov
