http://www.mrmib.ca.gov/MRMIB/MRMIP/MRMIP_Regs011113.pdf

   MRMIP Regulations R-3-98 MRMIP Annual Lifetime Cap Benefit Regulations
   OAL Approved Effective May 10, 1999 TITLE 10: CALIFORNIA CODE OF
   REGULATIONS CHAPTER 5.5 MAJOR RISK MEDICAL INSURANCE PROGRAM ARTICLE 1.
   Definitions 2698.100. Definitions For the purposes of this part: (a)
   "Appellant" means an applicant or subscriber who has filed an appeal
   with the program. (b) "Applicant" means an individual who has filed a
   complete application for major risk medical coverage and paid the
   initial subscriber contribution. (c) "Authorized Representative" means
   any person or entity who has been designated, in writing, by the
   appellant to act on his/her behalf. (d) "Board" means the Managed Risk
   Medical Insurance Board. (e) "Coverage" means the payment for medically
   necessary services provided by institutional and professional
   providers. (f) "Dependent" means a subscriber's spouse and any
   unmarried child, who is an adopted child, a stepchild, or a recognized
   natural child, who lives with the subscriber in a regular parent-child
   relationship. A child attains the status of "dependent" at birth or
   upon legal adoption. A child shall be considered to be adopted upon the
   subscriber receiving physical custody of the child to be adopted. A
   stepchild attains the status of "dependent" upon the subscriber's
   marriage to the natural or adopted stepchild's parent. "Dependent"
   includes any unmarried child who is economically dependent upon the
   applicant, where there exists a parent-child relationship with the
   applicant. He or she ceases to be a "dependent" upon marriage, or
   attainment of age 23, whichever first occurs; except that an unmarried
   child who at the time of attaining age 23 is incapable of self-support
   because of physical or mental disability which existed continuously
   from a date prior to attainment of age 23 continues in dependent status
   until termination of such incapacity. For the purpose of Section
   2698.205, a dependent's status shall not change upon death of the
   subscriber or upon the subscriber being disenrolled due to becoming
   eligible for Medicare Part A and Part B. (g) "Disenroll" means
   termination from coverage by the program. (h) "Eligible" means the
   applicant is qualified to be enrolled along with dependents in a
   participating health plan. (i) "Enroll" means to accept an applicant as
   a subscriber by notifying a participating health plan to accept the
   applicant and dependents, if any, for coverage. (j) "Executive
   Director" means the Executive Director for the Board. 1 (k)
   "Fee-for-service plan" means either of the following: (1) Service
   benefit plans under which retrospective payment is made by a carrier
   under contracts with physicians, hospitals, or other providers of
   health services rendered to subscribers. (2) Indemnity benefit plans
   under which a carrier agrees to pay retrospectively certain sums of
   money, not in excess of actual expenses incurred, for health services.
   (l) "Health maintenance organization" means either of the following:
   (1) Comprehensive group-practice prepayment plans which offer benefits,
   in whole or in substantial part, on a prepaid basis, with professional
   services thereunder provided by physicians or other providers of health
   services practicing as a group in a common center or centers. This
   group shall include physicians representing at least three major
   medical specialties who receive all or a substantial part of their
   professional income from the prepaid funds. (2) Individual practice
   prepayment plans or network model prepayment plans which offer health
   services in whole or in part on a prepaid basis, with professional
   services thereunder provided by individual physicians or groups of
   physicians or other providers of health services who agree to accept
   the payments provided by the plans as full payment for covered services
   rendered by them. (m) "Health plan" means a private insurer holding a
   valid outstanding certificate of authority from the Insurance
   Commissioner, a nonprofit hospital service plan qualifying under
   Chapter 11A (commencing with Section 11491) of Part 2 of Division 2 of
   the Insurance Code, a nonprofit membership corporation lawfully
   operating under the Nonprofit Corporation Law (Division 2 (commencing
   with Section 5000) of the Corporations Code), or a health care service
   plan as defined under subdivision (f) of Section 1345 of the Health and
   Safety Code, which is lawfully engaged in providing, arranging, paying
   for, or reimbursing the cost of personal health care services under
   insurance policies or contracts, medical and hospital service
   agreements, or membership contracts, in consideration of premiums or
   other periodic charges payable to it. (n) "Medicare" means the Health
   Insurance For The Aged provided under Title XVIII of the Social
   Security Act; "Part A" means Hospital Insurance as defined in Title
   XVIII of the Social Security Act; and "Part B" means Medical Insurance
   as defined in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act. (o)
   "Participating health plan" means a health plan which has a contract
   with the program to administer major risk medical coverage for program
   subscribers. Participating health plans are categorized as either
   fee-for-service plans or health maintenance organizations as defined in
   Section 2698.100 (l) or (m) respectively. (p) "Pre-existing condition"
   means any condition for which medical advice, diagnosis, care, or
   treatment was recommended or received during a six month period
   immediately preceding the effective date of coverage. (q)
   "Post-enrollment waiting period" means that period of time between the
   date of enrollment and the date coverage begins. (r) "Program" means
   the California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program. 2 (s) "Qualifying
   prior coverage" means: (1) Any individual or group policy, contract or
   program, that is written or administered by a disability insurance
   company, nonprofit hospital service plan, health care service plan,
   fraternal benefits society, self-insured employer plan, or any other
   entity, in this state or elsewhere, and that arranges or provides
   medical, hospital and surgical coverage not designed to supplement
   other private or governmental plans. The term includes continuation or
   conversion coverage but does not include accident only, credit,
   disability income, Medicare supplement, long-term care insurance,
   dental, vision, coverage issues as a supplement to liability insurance,
   insurance arising out of a workers' compensation or similar law,
   automobile medical payment insurance, or insurance under which benefits
   are payable with or without regard to fault and that is statutorily
   required to be contained in any liability insurance policy or
   equivalent self-insurance. (2) The federal Medicare program pursuant to
   Title XVIII of the Social Security Act. (3) The Medicaid program
   pursuant to Title XIX of the Social Security Act. (4) Any other
   publicly sponsored program, provided in this state or elsewhere of
   medical, hospital and surgical care. (t) "Resident" means a person who
   is present in California with intent to remain present except when
   absent for transitory or temporary purposes. However, a person who is
   absent from the state for a consecutive period greater than 210 days
   shall not be considered a resident. (u) "Standard average individual
   rate" means that rate a participating health plan estimates it would
   charge the general public for individual, non-group coverage for the
   benefits described in the program contract with the participating
   health plan. (v) "Subscriber" means an individual who is eligible for
   and receives major risk medical coverage through the program.
   "Subscriber" does not include an individual receiving major risk
   medical coverage through the program as an enrolled dependent of a
   subscriber. An individual who is enrolled but not yet receiving
   coverage due to a post-enrollment waiting period is considered a
   subscriber. (w) "Subscriber contribution" means the amount paid by a
   subscriber on a periodic basis to the program for coverage for a
   subscriber and enrolled dependents, if any. (x) Tenses, and Number. The
   present tense includes the past and future, and the future the present;
   the singular includes the plural and the plural the singular. (y)
   "Time". Whenever in this chapter a time is stated in which an act is to
   be done, the time is computed by excluding the first day and including
   the last day. If the last day is a holiday it is also excluded. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Sections 12705, 12711, 12712, 12725 and 12730, Insurance Code. 3
   Article 2. Eligibility, Application, and Enrollment 2698.200. Basis of
   Eligibility. (a) All eligibility requirements contained herein shall be
   applied without regard to sex, race, creed, color, sexual orientation,
   health status, national origin, occupation, or occupational history of
   the individual applying for the program. (b) To be eligible for the
   program, an applicant shall meet the requirements of either (1) or (2):
   (1) Meet all of the following requirements: (A) Be a resident of the
   State of California; and (B) Not be eligible for Part A and Part B of
   Medicare, except those applicants on Medicare solely because of
   end-stage rental disease; and (C) Not be eligible to purchase any
   health insurance for continuation of benefits under the provisions of
   29 US Code 1161 and following sections; and (D) Be unable to secure
   adequate private coverage. An individual shall be deemed unable to
   secure adequate private health coverage if the individual within the
   previous 12 months: 1. Has been denied individual coverage; or 2. Has
   been involuntarily terminated from health insurance coverage for
   reasons other than nonpayment of premium or fraud; or 3. Has been
   offered an individual, not a group, health insurance premium rate in
   excess of the subscriber rate for the individual's first choice
   participating health plan; or 4. The individual is a member of a group
   of 2 or fewer, not to include dependents, that has been denied
   coverage. (2) Be a dependent of an individual meeting the requirements
   of (b)(1) of this section. (c) To remain eligible an individual shall:
   (1) Remain a resident of California; and (2) Not become eligible for
   Part A and Part B of Medicare, except those applicants who become
   eligible for Medicare solely because of end-stage renal disease. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Sections 12711, 12725, and 12733, Insurance Code. 4 2698.201.
   Application (a) The Board shall establish an application review process
   which assures timely action on applications. The program shall complete
   the application review process within 30 calendar days of receipt of
   application and payment of the initial subscriber contribution. (b) To
   apply for the program an individual shall submit: (1) all information,
   documentation, and declarations necessary to determine program
   eligibility as set forth in subsection (e) of this section, and (2) a
   check or money order for an amount equal to the initial subscriber
   contribution for the individual's first choice participating health
   plan. (c) The individual or the individual's parent, conservator, or
   guardian shall sign and date a declaration stating that the information
   given is true and accurate. (d) An incomplete application shall be
   returned to the individual and shall not be processed. (e) (1) The
   application, entitled California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program
   Enrollment Application (July, 1996), shall contain the following: (A)
   The individual's full name, (B) The individual's current living address
   including house or unit number, street, city, county, state, and zip
   code, (C) The individual's date of birth, (D) The individual's sex, (E)
   The individual's social security number (provision of the Social
   Security Number is not mandatory), (F) If dependents are to be included
   in the coverage, the full names, dates of birth, sex, social security
   numbers (not mandatory), and relationship of the dependents to be
   covered. (G) The address to which the bills for the subscriber's
   contribution are to be sent, (H) Proof of rejection within 12 months of
   the date of application for health insurance coverage for reasons other
   than fraud or nonpayment of premium. The proof shall include a letter
   or other formal written communication from a health plan, documenting
   one or more of the following: 1. Having been denied health insurance
   coverage as an individual. 2. Having been involuntarily terminated from
   health insurance coverage. 3. Having been offered an individual, not a
   group, health insurance premium rate in excess of the subscriber rate
   for the individual's first choice participating health plan. 5 4.
   Having been denied health insurance coverage as a member of a group of
   two or less. (I) A declaration that the individual is not eligible for
   Part A and Part B of Medicare, in accordance with subsection
   2698.200(b)(1)(B). (J) A declaration that the individual is a resident
   of the state of California, (K) A declaration that the individual will
   abide by the rules of participation, utilization review process, and
   dispute resolution process of any participating health plan in which
   the individual is enrolled, (L) A declaration that the individual is
   not, to the individual's knowledge, being excluded from a group for the
   purpose of being made eligible for the program, (M) A declaration that
   the individual has reviewed the benefits offered by the participating
   health plans and the subscriber contribution rates, (N) A declaration
   that the individual understands and will follow the rules and
   regulations of the program, (O) Name and address of the individual's
   primary employer, if employed, (P) An indication of the individual's
   first choice and second choice participating health plans, and (Q) If
   an individual is not currently eligible for the program, but
   anticipates becoming eligible, the individual shall explain and
   document the reason or reasons, and provide the date on which
   eligibility will occur. If the individual is currently enrolled as a
   dependent of a subscriber but is independently eligible for the
   program, the individual shall explain and document the reasons for
   which independent enrollment is sought. (2) Social Security number and
   other personal information are needed for identification and
   administrative purposes. (f) In order for the program to determine that
   a pre-existing condition exclusion for a specific condition or a post
   enrollment waiting period should be waived, or partially waived, the
   individual must provide one of the following: (1) Documentation that
   the individual had qualifying prior coverage, or (2) Documentation that
   the individual has been covered by a similar plan sponsored by another
   state before becoming a California resident. 6 (g) Applicants may make
   application at any time. An applicant shall not be enrolled nor shall
   the applicant be placed on a waiting list until the applicant has
   fulfilled all of the requirements for eligibility. Once the
   requirements for eligibility are fulfilled, applicants shall be
   enrolled or put on waiting lists in order of the date of receipt of the
   application. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance
   Code. Reference: Sections 12711, 12725 and 12728, Insurance Code.
   2698.202 Determination of Eligibility (a) Upon receipt of a complete
   application the program shall determine applicants' eligibility based
   upon the criteria specified in Section 2698.200. (b) Applicants
   determined ineligible shall be notified in writing by the program,
   except as in (1) below. The notice shall include the reason for the
   determination of ineligibility and an explanation of the appeal
   process. The applicants' initial subscriber contributions shall be
   refunded. (1) If an applicant is determined to be currently ineligible,
   but the applicant has documented pursuant to Section 2698.201(e)(1)(Q)
   that he/she will become eligible, the applicant shall be notified that
   the application will be held until the eligibility date specified, and
   on that date the applicant will be determined eligible. The applicant's
   initial subscriber contribution shall not be refunded. (c) Applicants
   determined eligible shall be either enrolled or placed on a waiting
   list and shall be notified of their status. (d) Applicants who are not
   currently enrolled as dependents, who are eligible to become program
   subscribers shall be enrolled in accordance with Section 2698.203,
   unless one of the following circumstances exist: (1) Both the first and
   second choice participating health plans of the applicant are currently
   serving the maximum number of subscribers which they have contracted
   with the program to serve. (2) A program funding shortfall has been
   projected. (e) Applicants who are currently enrolled as dependents, who
   are determined eligible to become program subscribers shall be enrolled
   in accordance with Section 2698.203. (f) When the circumstances in
   (d)(1) or (2) exist, applicants shall be placed on a waiting list in
   the order in which their completed applications were received by the
   program. When a vacancy occurs or funds become available, whichever is
   applicable, applicants shall be enrolled in accordance with Section
   2698.203 based upon the order in which they appear on the program's
   waiting list. (g) The program shall refund the initial subscriber
   contribution to all applicants who have been on the program's waiting
   list for more than 60 days from the date their completed applications
   were received. Such applicants shall, within 30 days of notification by
   the program that enrollment is possible, pay the initial subscriber
   contribution and notify the program of any additional dependents to be
   enrolled. Failure to comply with this 30-day payment requirement shall
   result in program ineligibility for a period of one year. 7 (h) The
   program shall complete the enrollment of an applicant on the waiting
   list within 15 calendar days of receipt of payment of the initial
   subscriber contribution that has met the requirements of (g) of this
   section. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance
   Code. Reference: Sections 12711, 12725 and 12728, Insurance Code.
   2698.203. Enrollment. (a) Providing neither of the circumstances
   specified in Section 2698.202 (d) exists, applicants determined
   eligible for the program shall be enrolled in their: (1) First choice
   participating health plan, unless that plan is currently serving the
   number of subscribers which it has contracted with the program to
   serve. (2) Second choice participating health plan when the first
   choice plan is currently serving the number of subscribers which it has
   contracted with the program to serve. (b) If a subscriber applied to
   have dependents covered, dependents shall also be enrolled in the
   subscriber's participating health plan. (c) The date on which the
   coverage shall begin, subject to the provisions of Section 2698.303,
   shall be the first day of the month following enrollment. (d) An
   applicant shall be notified in writing by the program of enrollment
   with a participating health plan, the beginning date of coverage by the
   participating health plan, and of any pre-existing condition exclusion
   period or post enrollment waiting period. The notice shall caution the
   subscriber about discontinuing any existing coverage until full
   coverage by the participating health plan is begun. NOTE: Authority
   cited: Sections 12711, 12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Sections 12711, 12725 and 12728, Insurance Code. 2698.204.
   Disenrollment (a) A subscriber and/or enrolled dependents, if any,
   shall be disenrolled from the program and from the program's
   participating health plan when any of the following occur: (1) The
   subscriber so requests. (2) The subscriber fails to make subscriber
   contributions in accordance with Section 2698.403. (3) The subscriber
   and/or enrolled dependent becomes ineligible because of: (A) The
   subscriber's failure to meet the residency requirement; or (B) The
   subscriber and/or enrolled dependent becoming eligible for Part A and
   Part B of Medicare, except subscribers or enrolled dependents on
   Medicare solely because of end-stage renal disease. An enrolled
   dependent of a subscriber who becomes eligible for Part A and Part B of
   Medicare may remain eligible for the program pursuant to Section
   2698.205. 8 (4) The subscriber or an enrolled dependent has committed
   an act of fraud to circumvent the statutes or regulations of the
   program. (5) The dependent ceases to be a dependent as defined in
   Section 2698.100(f). This shall not affect the enrollment status of a
   dependent who was enrolled as a dependent who became an independent
   subscriber. (b) A subscriber shall be notified by the program in
   writing of the disenrollment of the subscriber and enrolled dependents,
   if any, from the program and the reason for the disenrollment, which
   shall take effect thirty (30) days following the date of the notice. In
   cases of disenrollment because of nonpayment of subscriber contribution
   the effective date of disenrollment will be retroactive to the last day
   for which the subscriber contribution was paid. (c) If disenrolled for
   any reason, a subscriber and enrolled dependents, if any, shall not be
   eligible for enrollment in the program for one year from the date of
   disenrollment, unless the enrolled dependents have continued
   eligibility pursuant to Section 2698.205. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code: Reference: Sections 12711,
   12733 and 12735, Insurance Code. 2698.205. Continuation of Benefits. If
   a subscriber is disenrolled because of death or eligibility for
   Medicare Part A and Part B, enrolled dependents shall be eligible to
   continue coverage in the program from a participating health plan for
   as long as the enrolled dependent would have been eligible had the
   subscriber remained enrolled. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 12711,
   12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12730, Insurance
   Code. Section 2698.206 Change in Coverage (a) A subscriber wishing to
   enroll additional dependents shall notify the program of the full
   names, dates of birth, sex, social security numbers (not mandatory),
   and relationship of the dependents to be enrolled. Social Security
   number and other personal information are needed for identification and
   administrative purposes. Coverage for additional dependents shall be
   subject to the following: (1) Coverage for newborn or adopted children
   that are dependents shall begin upon birth or adoption of the child.
   Coverage for stepchildren that are dependents shall begin upon marriage
   by a subscriber to the stepchild's parent. Subscribers shall notify the
   program of the birth , adoption, or the addition of a stepchild within
   thirty (30) days to continue coverage of the newborn , adopted child,
   or stepchild. A child shall be considered to be adopted upon the
   subscriber receiving physical custody of the child to be adopted. (2)
   Coverage for all other dependents shall begin within 90 days of receipt
   of the notification to the program from the subscriber. (3) Subscribers
   shall be notified by the program of the beginning date of coverage for
   enrolled dependents. (b) A subscriber wishing to disenroll dependents
   shall notify the program of the full names, dates of birth, sex, social
   security numbers, and relationship of the 9 dependents to be
   disenrolled. Disenrollment of dependents shall be subject to the
   following: (1) The program shall inform the participating health plan
   within fifteen (15) days of the date of the receipt of the notification
   to the program by the subscriber. (2) The participating health plan
   shall disenroll the dependents within fifteen (15) days of being
   informed by the program of the request for disenrollment. (3) The
   subscriber's contribution shall be adjusted, if applicable, as of the
   date of disenrollment by program. (4) The program shall notify the
   subscriber of the date of disenrollment. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12729,
   Insurance Code. Section 2698.207 Transfer of Enrollment (a) A
   subscriber and enrolled dependents, if any, shall be transferred from
   one participating health plan to another if any of the following
   occurs: (1) The subscriber so requests, in writing, during an open
   enrollment period established by the Board. The program shall inform
   each subscriber of each open enrollment period. (2) The subscriber so
   requests, in writing, because the subscriber has moved and no longer
   resides in an area served by the participating health plan in which the
   subscriber is enrolled, and there is at least one participating health
   plan serving the area in which the subscriber now resides that is
   accepting new enrollees. (3) The subscriber or the participating health
   plan so requests, in writing, because of failure to establish a
   satisfactory subscriber-plan relationship and the executive director
   determines that the transfer is in the best interests of the program,
   and there is at least one participating health plan serving the area in
   which the subscriber resides that is accepting new enrollees. (b)
   Subscribers who transfer enrollment pursuant to this section shall not
   be subject to pre-existing condition exclusions or post enrollment
   waiting periods as specified in Section 2698.303. (c) Transfer of
   enrollment pursuant to (a)(1) shall take effect 60 days after the
   termination of an open enrollment period. Transfer of enrollment
   pursuant to (a)(2) or (a)(3) shall take effect within 35 days of
   approval of the request. (d) Subscribers and participating health plans
   shall be notified in writing of any transfer of enrollment. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 12711, 12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code.
   Reference: Section 12731, Insurance Code. 10 Section 2698.208 Payment
   to Insurance Agents and Brokers (a) If authorized by the board, the
   program shall pay an insurance agent as defined in Section 31 of the
   Insurance Code or broker as defined in Section 33 of the Insurance Code
   for assisting an individual in completing the application form, if the
   following conditions are met: (1) The individual is enrolled as a
   result of the application; (2) The agent or broker requests such
   payment in writing; and (3) Such request accompanies the application
   and includes the name, license number, and address of the agent or
   broker. (b) The amount of such payment shall be $50.00. NOTE: Authority
   cited: Sections 12711, 12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Sections 12711 and 12711.5, Insurance Code. 11 Article 3. Minimum Scope
   of Benefits 2698.300 Deductible and Copayment (a) Each participating
   health plan shall be permitted to require copayments and deductibles
   for benefits provided to a subscriber and enrolled dependents subject
   to the following limits: (1) The copayment shall not exceed 25 percent
   of the cost of covered services. However, health plans not utilizing a
   deductible may be authorized to charge an office visit copayment of up
   to twenty-five dollars ($25). (2) The deductible shall not exceed $500
   annually for a household, which consists of a subscriber and any
   enrolled dependents. (3) The sum of the copayment and deductible shall
   not exceed $2,500 annually for a subscriber or $4,000 annually for a
   subscriber and enrolled dependents. (b) When a subscriber's selected
   participating health plan is a plan that has contracts with certain
   listed providers from whom care is to be received for non-emergency
   conditions, and there are additional subscriber payments to providers
   other than those listed, such additional subscriber payments shall not
   be subject to the limits of this section. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Sections 12711 and 12712 Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12718,
   Insurance Code 2698.301. Minimum Scope of Benefits (a) The basic
   minimum scope of benefits offered by participating health plans to
   subscribers and enrolled dependents shall include all of the benefits
   and services listed in this section. No other benefits shall be
   permitted to be offered by a participating health plan unless
   specifically provided for in the program contract with the
   participating health plan. The basic minimum scope of benefits shall be
   as follows: (1) Hospital inpatient care in a hospital licensed pursuant
   to subdivision (a) of Section 1250 of the Health and Safety Code,
   including all of the following benefits and services: (A) Semi-private
   room, including meals and general nursing services; and private room
   and special diets when prescribed as medically necessary. (B) Hospital
   services, including use of operating room and related facilities,
   intensive care unit and services, labor and delivery room, and
   anesthesia. (C) Drugs, medications, and parenteral solutions
   administered while an inpatient. (D) Dressings, casts, equipment,
   oxygen services, and radiation therapy. (E) Respiratory therapy. (2)
   Medical and surgical services, provided on an outpatient basis whenever
   medically appropriate, including all of the following: 12 (A) Surgical
   services performed by a physician and surgeon. (B) Radiology, nuclear
   medicine, ultrasound, laboratory, and other diagnostic services. (C)
   Dressings, casts and use of castroom, anesthesia, and oxygen services
   when medically necessary. (D) Blood, blood derivatives and their
   administration. (E) Office and hospital visits by a physician and
   surgeon. (F) Radiation therapy and chemotherapy, of proven benefit. (G)
   Preventive services for health maintenance of minors, including well-
   child examinations, health evaluations, physical examinations for early
   detection and diagnosis of disease or other conditions, immunizations,
   and vaccinations recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics. (H)
   Medical and surgical consultation by a physician and surgeon. (I)
   Reproductive sterilization. (J) Nothing in this section shall preclude
   the direct reimbursement of physician assistants, nurse practitioners
   or other advanced practice nurses who provide covered services within
   their scope of licensure. (3) Comprehensive maternity and perinatal
   care, including the services of a physician and surgeon, certified
   nurse midwife or nurse practitioner, and all necessary hospital
   services are covered services. Nothing in this section shall preclude
   the direct reimbursement of nurse practitioners or other advanced
   practice nurses in providing covered services. (4) Emergency care,
   including emergency ambulance transportation. (5) Plastic and
   reconstructive surgical services limited to the following: (A) Surgery
   to correct a physical functional disorder resulting from a disease or
   congenital anomaly. (B) Surgery to correct a physical functional
   disorder following an injury, or incidental to surgery which was or
   would have been covered pursuant to this section. (C) Reconstructive
   surgery and associated procedures following a mastectomy which resulted
   from disease, illness, or injury, and internal breast prosthesis
   required incidental to the surgery. (6) Prescription drugs, limited to
   drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration, generic
   equivalents approved as substitutable by the federal Food and Drug
   Administration, or drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug
   Administration as Treatment Investigational New Drugs. (7) Mental
   Health benefits, limited to the following: 13 (A) Inpatient care for a
   period of 10 days in each calendar year. (B) 15 outpatient visits in
   each calendar year. (8) Medical rehabilitation and the services of
   occupational therapists, physical therapists, and speech therapists for
   short-term therapy of acute conditions on an outpatient and inpatient
   basis. (9) Durable medical equipment. (10) The following human organ
   transplants: corneal, human heart, heart-lung, liver, bone-marrow and
   kidney transplantation. Transplants other than corneal shall be subject
   to the following restrictions: (A) Pre-operative evaluation, surgery,
   and follow-up care shall be provided at centers that have been
   designated by the participating health plan as having documented
   skills, resources, commitment and record of favorable outcomes to
   qualify the centers to provide such care. (B) Patients shall be
   selected by the patient-selection committee of the designated centers
   and subject to prior authorization. (C) Only one transplantation per
   organ-type per patient is covered. Replacement of a rejected organ will
   not be covered. (D) Only anti-rejection drugs, biological products, and
   other procedures that have been established as safe and effective, and
   no longer investigational, are covered. (11) This part shall not be
   construed to prohibit a plan's ability to impose cost- control
   mechanisms. Such mechanisms may include but are not limited to
   requiring prior authorization for benefits or providing benefits in
   alternative settings or using alternative methods. NOTE: Authority
   cited: Sections 12711, 12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. 2698.302. Excluded Benefits
   (a) Plans offered under this program shall exclude the following
   benefits unless specifically provided for in the program contract with
   the participating health plan: (1) Services which are not medically
   necessary. "Medically necessary" as applied to the diagnosis or
   treatment of illness is an article or service that is not
   investigational and is necessary because: (A) It is appropriate and is
   provided in accordance with accepted medical standards in the state of
   California, and could not be omitted without adversely affecting the
   patient's condition or the quality of medical care rendered; and (B) As
   to inpatient care, it could not have been provided in a physician's
   office, in the outpatient department of a hospital, or in a lesser
   facility without adversely affecting the patient's condition or the
   quality of medical care rendered; and 14 (C) If the proposed article or
   service is not commonly used, its application or proposed application
   has been preceded by a thorough review and application of conventional
   therapies; and (D) The service or article has been demonstrated to be
   of significantly greater therapeutic value than other, less expensive,
   services or articles. (2) Any services which are received prior to the
   enrollee's effective date of coverage. (3) Custodial, domiciliary care,
   or rest cures for which facilities of a general acute care hospital are
   not medically required. Custodial care is care that does not require
   the regular services of trained medical or health professionals and
   that is designed primarily to assist in activities of daily living.
   Custodial care includes, but is not limited to, help in walking,
   getting in and out of bed, bathing, dressing, preparation and feeding
   of special diets, and supervision of medications which are ordinarily
   self-administered. (4) Personal or comfort items, or a private room in
   a hospital unless medically necessary. (5) Emergency facility services
   for nonemergency conditions. (6) Those medical, surgical (including
   implants), or other health care procedures, services, drugs, or devices
   which are either: (A) Services, products, drugs or devices which are
   experimental or investigational or which are not recognized in accord
   with generally accepted medical standards as being safe and effective
   for use in the treatment in question. (B) Outmoded or not efficacious.
   (7) Transportation except as specified in Section 2698.301(a)(4). (8)
   Implants, except cardiac pacemakers, intraocular lenses, screws, nuts,
   bolts, bands, nails, plates, and pins used for the fixation of
   fractures or osteotomies and artificial knees and hips; and except as
   specified in Section 2698.301(a)(5)(C). (9) Sex change operations,
   investigation of or treatment for infertility, reversal of
   sterilization, conception by artificial means, and contraceptive
   supplies and devices. (10) Eyeglasses, contact lenses (except the first
   intraocular lens following cataract surgery), routine eye examinations,
   including eye refractions, except when provided as part of a routine
   examination under "preventive care for minors," hearing aids,
   orthopedic shoes, orthodontic appliances, and routine foot care are
   excluded. (11) Long-term care benefits including home care, skilled
   nursing care, respite care, and hospice care are excluded except as a
   participating health plan shall determine they are less costly
   alternatives to the basic minimum benefits. 15 (12) Dental services and
   services for temporomandibular joint problems are excluded, except for
   repair necessitated by accidental injury to sound natural teeth or jaw,
   provided that the repair commences within 90 days of the accidental
   injury or as soon thereafter as is medically feasible. (13) Treatment
   of chemical dependency. (14) Treatment of obesity by medical and
   surgical means, except for treatment of morbid obesity. In no instance
   shall treatment for morbid obesity be provided primarily for cosmetic
   reasons. (15) Cosmetic surgery, including treatment for complications
   of cosmetic surgery, except as specifically provided in Section
   2698.301(a)(5). (16) Conditions resulting from acts of war (declared or
   not). (b) Benefits which exceed $50,000 in a calendar year prior to
   1999 under the program for a subscriber or a subscriber's enrolled
   dependent shall be excluded. Beginning with calendar year 1999,
   benefits which exceed $75,000 in a calendar year under the program for
   a subscriber or a subscriber's enrolled dependent shall be excluded.
   (c) Effective January 1, 1999 benefits which exceed $750,000 in a
   lifetime under the program for a subscriber or a subscriber's enrolled
   dependent shall be excluded. Benefits received prior to January 1, 1999
   shall be counted towards the $750,000 lifetime maximum. NOTE: Authority
   cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections
   12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. 2698.303. Pre-Existing Conditions
   Exclusion and Postenrollment Waiting Period. (a) Unless a waiver is
   granted pursuant to subsection (c), subscribers and enrolled dependents
   who enroll in a health maintenance organization participating health
   plan shall be subject to a postenrollment waiting period. The
   postenrollment waiting period shall apply to all subscribers and
   enrolled dependents. Subscribers shall not be required to pay
   subscriber contributions during the waiting period. The postenrollment
   waiting period shall be 90 days unless reduced pursuant to subsection
   (c). (b) Unless a waiver is granted pursuant to subsection (c),
   subscribers and enrolled dependents who enroll in a fee-for-service
   participating health plan shall be subject to a pre-existing condition
   exclusion period. During the pre-existing condition exclusion period no
   benefits or services related to a pre-existing condition shall be
   covered. Subscribers shall be required to pay subscriber contributions
   during the pre-existing condition exclusion period. The pre-existing
   condition exclusion period shall be 90 days unless reduced pursuant to
   subsection (c). (c) Waivers or partial waivers to the postenrollment
   waiting period or pre-existing condition exclusion period shall be
   granted for each individual subscriber or enrolled dependent providing
   any of the following criteria are met: (1) If the subscriber or
   enrolled dependent had qualifying prior coverage, such coverage was
   terminated and the subscriber applies for eligibility in the program
   within 31 days of the termination, then the subscriber or enrolled
   dependent shall be granted a partial waiver. The post-enrollment
   waiting period or pre-existing condition exclusion period shall be
   waived for a period equal to the period of time the subscriber or
   enrolled dependent was enrolled in qualifying prior coverage up to a
   maximum of 90 days. 16 (2) The subscriber who had previously received
   coverage under a similar program in another state within the last 12
   months, shall be granted a full waiver. (3) A child dependent who
   enrolled pursuant to Section 2698.206(a) shall be granted a full
   waiver. (4) The subscriber who was on the program waiting list in
   accordance with Section 2698.202 for 180 days or longer shall be
   granted a full waiver. A full waiver shall also be granted for any
   dependents enrolled at the same time as the subscriber. (d) The program
   shall fully explain to applicants the type of health care coverage
   offered by each participating health plan, including the applicable
   waiting/exclusion periods specified in this section. NOTE: Authority
   cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference: Section
   12726, Insurance Code. 17 Article 4. Risk Categories and Subscriber
   Contributions 2698.400. Risk Categories (a) The risk categories on
   which the program and subscriber contributions are to be determined
   shall be the following: (1) Six (6) geographic regions: (A) Area 1
   shall include the counties of Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Colusa,
   Del Norte, El Dorado, Glenn, Humboldt, Inyo, Kings, Lake, Lassen,
   Mendocino, Modoc, Mono, Monterey, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, San Benito,
   Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Tulare, Tuolumne,
   Yuba, and Yolo. (B) Area 2 shall include the counties of Fresno,
   Imperial, Kern, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, Napa, Sacramento, San
   Joaquin, San Luis Obispo, Santa Cruz, Solano, Sonoma, and Stanislaus.
   (C) Area 3 shall include the counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin,
   San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara. (D) Area 4 shall include the
   counties of Orange, Santa Barbara, and Ventura. (E) Area 5 shall
   include the county of Los Angeles. (F) Area 6 shall include the
   counties of Riverside, San Bernardino, and San Diego. (2) Twelve (12)
   age groups: (A) Under 15 years of age; (B) 15-29 years of age; (C)
   30-34 years of age; (D) 35-39 years of age; (E) 40-44 years of age; (F)
   45-49 years of age; (G) 50-54 years of age; (H) 55-59 years of age; (I)
   60-64 years of age; (J) 65-69 years of age; (K) 70-74 years of age; and
   (L) 75 years of age and over. 18 (b) No other risk categories shall be
   allowed for the purpose of this program. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Sections 12711, 12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code. Reference: Section
   12736, Insurance Code. 2698.401. Determination of Subscriber
   Contribution (a) Each participating health plan shall provide an annual
   estimate of the standard average individual rate for the minimum
   benefits provided for in the contract with the participating health
   plan for each risk category specified in Section 2698.400. Without
   applying risk categories to dependents, each participating health plan
   shall also provide an estimate of the standard average rate for
   covering an individual in each risk category and the individual's
   dependents as follows: (1) An individual and one dependent; and (2) An
   individual and two or more dependents. (b) For those participating
   health plans which have been offered through the program for two or
   more years, the Board shall calculate a loss ratio for each
   participating health plan for the prior calendar year. The loss ratio
   shall be calculated using 125 percent of the estimated rates provided
   by the participating plan as the denominator, and the sum of all
   medical costs for subscribers and dependents enrolled in the plan and
   all administration fees and risk payments to the plan as the numerator.
   (c) For those participating health plans which have been offered
   through the program for two or more years, the Board shall calculate a
   percentage average subsidy amount per subscriber dollar contributed for
   each participating health plan for the prior calendar year by
   subtracting 100 percent from the program loss ratio percentage. (d) The
   Board shall calculate the program loss ratio for the prior calendar
   year in the following manner: (1) Participating health plans with an
   average monthly number of enrollees of fewer than 1,000 in the prior
   calendar year shall be excluded from the calculation. (2) If a
   participating health plan's loss ratio is less than 100 percent it
   shall be deemed to be 100 percent for purposes of the calculation. (3)
   The weighted average of the participating health plans' loss ratios is
   the program loss ratio. (e) The Board shall calculate the program
   average subsidy for the prior calendar year by subtracting 100 percent
   from the program loss ratio percentage. (f) For each participating
   health plan with an average subsidy percentage amount higher than the
   program average subsidy percentage, that difference shall be called the
   excess subsidy. (g) The Board shall determine the subscriber
   contribution for each participating health plan that did not have an
   excess subsidy in the prior calendar year by multiplying the estimated
   rates provided by the participating health plan by 125 percent. (h) The
   Board shall determine the base subscriber contribution for each
   participating health plan that did have an excess subsidy in the prior
   calendar year by multiplying 19 the estimated rates provided by the
   participating health plan by an additional 25 percent and then adding
   the excess subsidy amount. However, the actual subscriber contribution
   shall be subject to the following limitations: (1) No subscriber
   contribution will be more than 10 percent above 125 percent of the
   estimated rates provided by the participating plan. (See Title 10,
   Section 2698.100(u).) (2) If all participating health plans available
   in a county have an excess subsidy amount, the subscriber contribution
   for the plan with the lowest excess subsidy amount will not include the
   excess subsidy amount. (i)Subscriber contribution for participating
   health plans joining the program after January 1, 1997, shall be
   established at 125 percent of the estimated rates provided by the
   participating plan for the first two benefit years the plan
   participates in the program. (See Title 10, Section 2698.100(u).) (j)
   Subscriber contributions shall be adjusted annually in accordance with
   this section. (k) Subscribers shall be informed by the program of the
   annually adjusted subscriber contribution at least one month prior to
   the effective date of the rate charge. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections
   12711 and12712 Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12713, 12736, 12737
   and 12738, Insurance Code 2698.403 Subscriber Contribution Payments
   Subscriber contribution payment procedures for subscribers and any
   dependents shall be as follows: (a) Each month the program shall
   determine the amount of the subscriber contribution in accordance with
   Sections 2698.400 and 2698.401 and notify the subscriber of the
   subscriber contribution amount due to the program and the due date. The
   program shall send the notice at least 30 calendar days in advance of
   the due date. (b) A subscriber shall submit the subscriber contribution
   to the program each month so that it is received no later than the
   first of each month for that month of coverage. (c) The subscribers
   obligation to submit the subscriber contribution amount required by
   subsection (b) above is not contingent upon receipt of the notice
   specified in subsection (a). If the subscriber does not receive the
   notice specified in subsection (a) above, the subscriber shall make a
   good faith effort to determine the amount of the subscriber
   contribution and shall submit a payment of that amount by the due date.
   NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code.
   Reference: Section 12737, Insurance Code 2698.405 Overdue Payments (a)
   A subscriber whose subscriber contribution is not paid in full for any
   reason by the due date shall be considered to be overdue. (b) The
   program shall notify the subscriber of the overdue subscriber
   contribution payment amount and the potential for disenrollment from
   the program on the 20 10th day following the due date when the current
   month's premium is paid before the next month's due date. An exception
   to this is specified in subsection (c). (c) When the previous month's
   subscriber contribution is received on the due date for the current
   month, a subscriber final notice will be generated on the 15th day
   following the due date for the current month. (d) Subscriber
   contributions more than 31 calendar days overdue shall result in the
   subscriber and any dependents being disenrolled pursuant to Section
   2698.204. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance
   Code. Reference: Section 12735, Insurance Code 2698.407 Reinstatement
   (a) A subscriber who is disenrolled for nonpayment of the subscriber
   contribution may be reinstated once during a rolling twelve (12) month
   period if the subscriber requests reinstatement within sixty (60)
   calendar days of the date of the disenrollment action and brings all
   delinquent payments up to date. (b) A subscriber who is disenrolled
   more than once during a rolling twelve (12) month period for nonpayment
   of the subscriber contribution may only be reinstated through an appeal
   to the board as set forth in Section 2698.500 except as specified in
   subsection (c). (c) A subscriber who has been disenrolled due to the
   submission of two checks which were returned for insufficient funds
   during a rolling twelve (12) month period will not be reinstated. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Section 12735, Insurance Code 21 Article 5. Appeals 2698.500. Appeals
   to the Board (a) Any subscriber who is dissatisfied with any action or
   failure to act which has occurred in connection with a participating
   health plan's coverage may file an appeal with the Board. (b) In
   addition, the following decisions may be appealed to the Executive
   Director only: (1) A program determination as to eligibility of any
   applicant or the applicant's dependents. (2) A program determination to
   disenroll a subscriber or enrolled dependents from the program. (3) A
   program determination to deny a subscriber request or to grant a
   participating health plan request to transfer the subscriber to a
   different participating health plan. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections
   12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12711 and 12732,
   Insurance Code. 2698.501. Dispute Resolution Notwithstanding other
   sections in this Article, when a subscriber is dissatisfied with any
   action, or inaction, of the program's participating health plan in
   which he/she is enrolled, the subscriber shall first attempt to resolve
   the dispute with the participating health plan according to its
   established policies and procedures. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections
   12711, 12712 and 12712.5, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12711 and
   12732, Insurance Code. 2698.502. Filing an Appeal (a) An appeal shall
   be filed in writing with the Executive Director within sixty (60)
   calendar days of the action or failure to act or receipt of notice of
   the decision being appealed. (b) An appeal shall include all of the
   following: (1) A copy of any decision being appealed; or a written
   statement of the action or failure to act being appealed; (2) A
   statement specifically describing the issues which are disputed by the
   appellant; (3) A statement of the resolution requested by the
   appellant; and (4) Any other relevant information the appellant wants
   to include. 22 (c) Any appeal that does not include all necessary
   information shall be returned to the applicant or subscriber without
   review. The applicant or subscriber may re-submit the appeal. The
   resubmittal shall be filed within the time limits of subsection (a) or
   within twenty (20) calendar days of the receipt of the returned appeal,
   whichever is later. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712
   Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12711 and 12732, Insurance Code.
   2698.503. Administrative Review (a) Any appeal filed pursuant to this
   Article will be given an administrative review. (b) Administrative
   reviews of appeals shall be conducted by the Executive Director. (c) In
   conducting an administrative review of an appeal, the Executive
   Director may contact the appellant and/or the participating health plan
   for further information. (d) The Executive Director's decision shall be
   in writing. (e) If an appeal was filed pursuant to section 2698.500(a),
   the appellant retains the right to request an administrative hearing if
   the appellant is not satisfied with the decision of the Executive
   Director. Such a request shall be filed within thirty (30) calendar
   days of receipt of the Executive Director's decision. It shall include
   a clear and concise statement of what action is being appealed, and the
   reason(s) the Executive Director's decision is not correct. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Sections 12711 and 12732, Insurance Code. 2698.504. Hearings Upon
   receipt of an appeal which requests an administrative hearing, the
   Board shall determine the appropriate forum as follows: (a) An appeal
   filed pursuant to subsection (a) of Section 2698.500 shall be reviewed
   by the Board to determine whether it is practicable to have the hearing
   conducted by an Administrative Law Judge employed by the Office of
   Administrative Hearings pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 5
   (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of
   the Government Code. The Board will determine practicability by
   considering such issues as timing, location and costs to the parties.
   If it is determined to be practicable, such a hearing shall be
   scheduled. If it is determined not to be practicable, the appeal shall
   be heard in accordance with subsection (b) of this Section. (b) An
   appeal filed pursuant to subsection (a) of Section 2698.500 but which
   it has been determined by the Board should be heard in accordance with
   this subsection, shall be heard according to the appeal procedures,
   including pre- and post-hearing procedures, set forth in Chapter 2.5
   (commencing with section 251) of Division 2 of Title 1 of the
   California Code of Regulations. Chapter 2.5, as adopted on June 4,
   1984, is hereby incorporated by reference, subject to the following
   modifications: (1) Reference to the Health and Welfare Agency or the
   component department shall be deemed reference to the Managed Risk
   Medical Insurance Board. (2) Reference to the private non-private human
   service organization shall be deemed reference to the petitioner. 23
   (3) Reference to the grievance procedure established in accordance with
   Health and Safety Code section 38036 shall be deemed reference to the
   administrative review process set forth in section 2698.503. (4)
   Reference to Health and Safety Code sections providing the bases,
   grounds, authorization or procedures for appeals shall be deemed
   reference to the bases and authorization for appeal found in section
   2698.500, and the appeal procedures found in this section. (5) The
   30-day time period specified in section 251(b) shall be extended to 60
   days, and the 10-day time period in section 252(a) shall be extended to
   30 days. (6) If the proposed decision submitted to the Board is not
   adopted as the decision, the Board may itself decide the case on the
   record, or may refer the case to the same hearing officer to take
   additional evidence. If the case is referred back to the hearing
   officer, the hearing officer shall prepare a new proposed decision
   based on the additional evidence and the record of the prior hearing.
   (7) The decision of the Board shall be issued within 90 days following
   the initial hearing or, if the case is referred back to the hearing
   officer, within 90 days of the second hearing. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Sections 12711 and 12712, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12711 and
   12732, Insurance Code. 24
