http://mplm.msfc.nasa.gov/MPLM%20Data/Weekly_Notes/MPLM%20weekly%20notes.pdf

   MPLM Weekly Notes July 23, 2001 MPLM TEAM STATUS: (R.McClendon) MPLM
   Generic - (Shariett) Presented the MPLM Generic Imagery Requirements to
   the Requirements Integration Panel. The panel accepted the generic set
   to be placed in the Mission Integration Plan Annex 3 as a blank book
   type set up to be negotiated with the Launch Package Manager for each
   mission. This will make mission planning easier for each mission by
   removing the need for imagery requirements to be generated, reviewed
   and baselined directly with the Imagery Working Group at JSC and then
   negotiated with the Launch Package Manager for each mission.
   (A.Shariett) Determined MPLM/ISS mated attitude (XVV vs XPOP) with THOR
   / Alenia. (G.Day/Boeing) MPLM Operations and Maintenance Requirements
   and Specifications (OMRS): (D.Harwell) Requirements Change Notice (RCN)
   MU15623 R1 was approved by the Test and Verification Control Panel.
   This change added an internal cleanliness inspection after rack
   installation and prior to internal closeout. It also added a
   contingency requirement for cleaning internal surfaces when the
   microbial sampling results show exceeded levels for bacteria or fungus.
   The RCN also established the requirement for the reflight leak testing
   of the MPLM Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM). (D.Harwell)
   MISSION 7A.1/STS 105: (C. Hazel/J. Holladay) The new launch date of 9
   Aug 2001 at 4:38PM Central time has been set. The MPLM has been closed
   and is ready for installation into the Orbiter. The Portable Fire
   Extinguisher Hazard Report was reviewed on 18 July by the Safety Panel
   and was approved. The Safety Reflight Assessment for 7A.1 has been
   submitted to the Safety Panel. Presentation to the SORR was made on 19
   July. There were no issues and no open paper for MPLM. (C.Hazel)
   Completed 7A.1 NPRA cracking pressure waiver analyses and paperwork.
   Results indicate very low probability of cracking NPRA due to seasonal
   low pressure environment at KSC. Following 7A.1, need to look at
   generating generic waiver for remainder of passive MPLM flights.
   (G.Day/Boeing) Supported various telecons / meetings: 7A.1 PRR, ferry
   flight telecons, (G.Day/Boeing) MISSION UF-1/STS :
   (A.Shariett/D.Harwell) Pre-Installation Checkout (PICO) testing began
   on 7/17 and is scheduled to be completed on 7/20. This test is to check
   out the MPLM systems prior to rack installation. Final inputs to the
   UF-1 Mission Integration Plan (MIP) Annex 2 Part 1 - Power, Energy, and
   Cooling Requirements will be submitted to JSC next week. PPRA leakage
   on UF-1, UF-1 attitudes required to satisfy PSRD pointing requirements.
   (G.Day/Boeing) MPLM Weekly Notes July 23, 2001 MISSION UF-2/STS 111:
   (S.Reagan/R.Kuhns(KSC)) A UF-2 Hardware Processing TIM (Technical
   Interchange Meeting) was held 7/10- 11/01. While most of the MPLM
   portion of the meeting focused on the stowage to go into the MPLM, one
   MPLM hardware issue discussed was the KSC plan to use the MPLM and
   Orbiter on UF-2 as a test case for the active Ground Support Equipment
   (GSE) that will supply power to an active MPLM. A Mission Integration
   Plan (MIP) Change Request (CR) has been submitted to allow this testing
   to occur. The testing will be performed both pre-launch and
   post-landing and will be done on non-interference basis. MISSION
   ULF-1/STS: (A. Shariett/C.Hazel)
