http://www.chbr.noaa.gov/OfficeofAdministration.html

   CCEHBR Banner Sidebar Sitemap

                          Office of Administration


                   Overview Staff Programs Downloads Links

Overview
(up)

   OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION provides and manages administrative support
   services, including annual budget formulation and execution, financial
   management, procurement, personnel, and facility/property management.
   Provides a control system to support the Center management of grants,
   cooperative agreements, and contracts. Provides assistance to Federal
   Program Officers and Contract Officer's Technical Representatives at
   the Center in the performance of their duties. Provides program
   planning and evaluation assistance to Center program and task managers
   and all organization components of the Center. Assures that the Center
   is administered in accord with the policies and regulations of NCCOS,
   NOS and NOAA.

Staff
(up)

Programs
(up)

Downloads
(up)

Links
(up)

   Administrative Support Links

   CASC - NOAA's Central Administrative Support Center
   NOAAs Central Library - connect to the NOAA library and information
   network, as well as NOAA historical information and an extensive
   collection.
   NOAA Employment Information - Check out NOAA's latest vacancies.
   NOAA's Environmental Compliance & Safety Division - Up to date news on
   safety and environmental compliance.
   NOAA Human Resources - Find all types of HR information from awards to
   workplace issues and everything in between.
   NOAA's Hurricane Center, Tropical Prediction Center - Up-to-date
   information on advisories, predictions, and images of tropical storms.
   Educational Resources for Teachers and Kids (2)
   NOAA Public Affairs
   NOAA Office of Diversity
   NOAA Office of Finance and Administration
   OPM Federal Employees Health Benefits
   USDC's The Pioneer Fund - Check this site out if you are a Commerce
   employee with a great idea and need funding?

   Links in support of Outreach

   Aquarius (UNCW) - Take a virtual tour of the world's only ocean
   underwater laboratory adjacent to a coral reef; this underwater
   laboratory is also home to scientists for missions up to 10 days long.
   Bermuda Biological Station - Take a high school field trip to Bermuda
   and participate in their Biodiversity Program.
   CORE (Consortium for Oceanographic Research and Education) - check out
   their educational activities including the National Ocean Science Bowl
   and their K-12 Education Programs Inventory.
   National Sea Grant Program - discover a wealth of information and
   active partners in providing the opptunity for scientific discovery,
   technology transfer, economic growth, and public education in the
   marine and Great Lakes resources.
   National Sea Grant Library - an archive of all Sea Grant Funded
   documents, greater than 72,000.
   National Association of Marine Laboratories - connect to a wealth of
   marine knowledge at one of the 120 Marine Laboratories located around
   the coastal US and the Great Lakes.
   NOAA's Education Site - Great for Teachers and Kids
   NOAA National Marine Mammal Laboratory Photo Gallery - an excellent
   photo collection of a variety of marine mammals in jpeg format.
   Planet Ark - access the latest in world environmental news.
   British Marine Life Study Society - one of the societies goals is to
   provide readable and informative articles on marine life and the ocean
   environment; their webpage provides a broad sweep of information on
   British marine life.
