http://evm.nasa.gov/spi.html

   EVM Title

                            Single Process Initiatives

      The following is text from a letter issued on May 17, 1996 by NASA
      Administrator Daniel Goldin on Acquisition Reform and Single
      Process/Block Changes:

      TO:  Officials-in-Charge of Headquarters Offices May 17, 1996
              Directors, NASA Field Installations
              Director, Jet Propulsion Laboratory

      FROM:  A/Administrator

      SUBJECT:  Acquisition Reform: Single Process/Block Changes

      New cost-savings opportunities are emerging in acquisition reform by
      partnering with the Department of Defense (DoD). The Single
      Process/Block Change initiative was conceived by the Government
      Industry Quality Liaison Panel, cochaired by the NASA Office of Safety
      and Mission Assurance, and was endorsed by the Secretary of Defense.
      The thrust of the initiative is to enable contractors to propose single
      processes that would meet the needs of multiple Government customers.
      This would eliminate duplicative contractor systems and processes
      imposed by each customer's requirements. This initiative is expected to
      reduce contractor costs, improve process efficiencies, reduce product
      costs, and improve product quality. It is a win-win proposition for the
      Government and contractors. It could yield high dividends for both NASA
      and DoD.

      The Defense Contract Management Command (DCMC) is facilitating this
      initiative at each contractor facility by working with contractor and
      Government representatives in identifying potential single processes.
      NASA will cooperate with DCMC for the development and acceptance of
      single processes wherever possible. Once the principals agree to the
      single processes, DCMC is authorized to issue a contract modification
      implementing the block change to all affected contracts. This concept
      has proven to be very effective at several DoD reinvention laboratory
      sites. Significant operational improvements and cost reductions can be
      achieved by this initiative, including savings to the Government on
      current contracts.

      To facilitate the partnership with DoD, I am designating the Office of
      the Chief Engineer as the Agency lead for this initiative. Enclosed are
      Implementation Guidelines to be used during the implementation process.
      I strongly encourage you to share my enthusiastic support of this
      initiative. If you have any contracts questions, call Kenneth A.
      Sateriale at 202-358-0491. Quality-systems-related questions should be
      addressed to Carl Schneider at 202-358-0913.

      ORIGINAL SIGNED BY

      Daniel S. Goldin

      This letter from Dan Goldin included specific guidelines for
      implementation.

                                Return to Home Page


                  Owner: Frank Hicks
   Designed and Serviced by: IDS / Jeannine Norman
   Last Modified: Friday, 04-Jan-2002 13:56:14 CST
                NASA Privacy Statement
