http://www.phila.gov/summary/finance/risk/index.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    City of Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia at Your Service Home Page Philadelphia
   Residents Page Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Visitors Page

[clearpixel.gif]

                                     Copyright© City of Philadelphia 2001  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
[clearpixel.gif]                                  [clearpixel.gif]
                 Finance Risk Management Division

                 Mission
                 The mission of the Risk Management Division is to reduce the financial
   impact of claims, lawsuits, and employee injuries to the City; to
   reduce the corresponding frequency and severity of these events through
   the application of professional risk management techniques; and to
   provide a safe environment for employees to work and the public to
   enjoy. In doing so, the Division plays a vital role in freeing up
   dollars which would otherwise be spent on claims and claims-related
   issues, making them available for other beneficial uses throughout the
   City.

   To meet the above goals, Risk Management works through four distinct
   units:

   Employee Disability
   The Employee Disability Unit oversees all aspects of the City employee
   work-related injury program, including the provision of high quality
   medical care to injured employees, claims management, and Workers'
   Compensation defense litigation.

   Claims Unit
   The Claims Unit handles all claims for personal injury and property
   damage as a result of the City's negligence. A staff of professional
   claims adjusters investigates all claims and evaluates their merits
   under the applicable law. The unit is also charged with maintaining
   information about claims to be used in the City's safety and loss
   control efforts.

   Insurance and Contracts
   In addition to performing insurance and contract services for the City
   of Philadelphia, its authorities and agencies, Risk Management's
   Insurance & Contracts Unit works to reduce the City's exposure to
   liability claims and lawsuits arising from the activities and
   operations of independent contractors and vendors. As an example of
   this, to mitigate the exposure of uninsured loss to the City and its
   taxpayers, the Unit is responsible for assuring that independent
   contractors/vendors maintain appropriate insurance in compliance with
   the City's contract and permit requirements. Additionally, the Unit
   extends risk management assistance to non-profit and community groups
   doing business with the City or sponsoring events on City property.

   Safety and Loss Prevention
   The Safety and Loss Prevention Unit of the City's Risk Management
   Division is responsible for evaluating the safety and health of the
   working environments for the city's 30,000 employees. The unit is also
   responsible for assessing risk associated with the City's operations,
   products and services. Working together with City departments, the unit
   reviews potential problems with departmental operations and procedures
   to minimize potential risks for the city and improve safety for the
   City and its residents.

   Frequently Asked Questions
   1. Does the City handle claims for work injuries for non-City
   employees?
   No, the Employee Disability Unit handles only cases involving City
   employees. Other claims should be addressed to your own employer.

   2. If I am a City employee with a complaint about my care or how my
   claim was handled, where do I go for help?
   Complaints and concerns should be referred to the Employee Disability
   Unit at (215) 683-1714 or (215) 683-1715.

   3. How do I file a claim against the City?
   Call the Claims Unit (683-1700) and a form will be mailed to you
   directly. Complete the required information and return the form to the
   address below by fax or mail.

   4. Do I need to file a claim in person?
   No. The claims adjuster can obtain all of the necessary information by
   telephone or by mail.

   5. What information is needed to file a claim?
   The necessary documentation will vary by claims type. If the claim is
   for damage to a motor vehicle, please provide photographs, if
   available, a copy of the police report, a copy of the Declaration Sheet
   from your automobile insurance policy, and two estimates of the cost of
   repair. If a claim is for bodily injury, please provide copies of
   medical bills as well. The claims adjuster assigned to your case will
   let you know what other information is required.

   6. What is the Pennsylvania Political Subdivision Tort Claims Act?
   Negligence claims against the City are governed by this law, commonly
   called the Tort Claims Act, which sets forth the eight ways in which
   the City can be liable for injury or property damage.

   7. How long does it take to process a claim?
   Once the City receives all of the necessary information, a decision
   should be reached within two weeks.

   8. Does the Safety Unit handle worker safety and health concerns for
   private employers in the City of Philadelphia?
   No. The U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health
   Administration (OSHA) handles workplace health and safety concerns for
   private sector employees. Their office is at 2nd & Chestnut Streets.
   OSHA's phone number is (215) 597-4955. Risk Management's Safety unit
   only responds to workplace health and safety hazards for City of
   Philadelphia employees. The Safety Unit does not, however, have any
   jurisdiction over employees of SEPTA, the Philadelphia Gas Works or the
   School District of Philadelphia.

   9. What should the public do if they observe an unsafe condition?
   Members of the public who observe an unsafe condition relating to
   operations of the City of Philadelphia should note the details of the
   condition (i.e. description of condition, location, vehicle number,
   time of observation) and contact the Safety and Loss Prevention Unit of
   the Risk Management Division at the address or phone number listed
   below.

   Contact Information
       Joseph R. Perrello, Director
       (215) 68301710/11
       Employee Disability Unit
       1515 Arch Street, 14th Floor
       Philadelphia, PA 19102
       Claims Unit
       1515 Arch Street, 14th Floor
       Philadelphia, PA 19102
       Phone: (215) 683-1700; Fax: (215) 883-1705
       Insurance and Contracts
       1515 Arch Street, 14th Floor
       Philadelphia, PA 19102
       Phone: (215) 683-1719
       Safety and Loss Prevention Unit
       1515 Arch Street, 14th Floor
       Philadelphia, PA 19102
       Phone: (215) 683-1723
