http://www.baltimorecity.gov/news/


   Home
   What's New
   F.A.Q.
   Neighborhoods
   City Services
   Government
   Mayor
   Search
   *****

                                  CitiStat

                         CitiStat Report of the Week

                        New Youth Recreation Programs

                   Online Bulk Trash Service Request Form

                         TV-21 Programming Schedule


                             Volunteer Services
    Do you enjoy fun, rewarding, and new experiences? Then the Baltimore
    City Department of Recreation and Parks has just the opportunity for
                                    you!



                              Baltimore Rising

   News


    Mayor's Office Press Releases | Neighborhood News Flash | TCB
   Public Works Press Releases | Health Department Press Releases
     Recreation & Parks Calendar of Events | Previous News Items


                                              Mayor O'Malley and Mrs. MLK
   Mayor O'Malley presents Mrs. King with a dozen red roses to commemorate
                   the 20th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day

      Mayors Take Lead on Homeland Security

      Better recycling; better cleaning; better Baltimore DPW announces
      improvements in collection program, effective Monday, January 28th

      End of Year Crime Statistics 2001 totals compared to where we were 2
      years ago.

      Cold Weather Tips from DPW: Prevent Your Pipes from Freezing!

      Baltimore Bear's Animal Magnetism Earns Stardom, Job Offer and a
      $20,000 signing bonus for the Baltimore Zoo

      Historic partnership yields expanded youth strategy

   Friday's practice
   The Mayor visits Ravens at practice before the playoffs.

      Two Years In, Baltimore's Future Looks Bright Mayor O'Malley says
      there's still work to do despite major accomplishments.

      Mayor O'Malley announces Arts and Entertainment District

      What pet lovers should know: January is Cat License Amnesty Month in
      Baltimore City • Animal Cruelty Reward Offered

      Free flu shots for seniors age 65+ in Baltimore - It's not too late.

      Baltimore's Mayor Praises Businesses for Keeping City Clean.

      It may be January, but there're still events to enjoy, thanks to the
      City's Department of Recreation and Parks.

      Baltimore is ready for snow
      Mayor O'Malley and the City's Office of Transportation are on the
      offensive as winter approaches.


                                                    Click for story
   Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley calls for passage of the Homeland
              Security Block Grant Act.  photo by Wendy L. Wilkerson

      Guidelines for Handling Suspicious Letters or Packages

      Traffic Advisory: City opens new JFX on-ramp from Charles Street Bridge

   Mayor O'Malley moderates briefing on chemical terrorism.
   The video conference is accessible to the public on the web.

   The Recreation and Parks' Fall Program Guide (pdf) is here!

   Things are picking up in Baltimore
   With the results of last Saturday's Homecoming '01 Clean Up indicating
   the biggest effort so far, the City is well on it's way, but we're far
   from done. There's a Contest to recognize outstanding citizens for
   their role in the community. And here are a few short PSA's to help
   motivate everyone else:

                                slow (282 k)

                                fast (469 k)

   If Everyone Littered

                                slow (290 k)

                                fast (481 k)

   What Does a Litterbug Look Like?

                                slow (289 k)

                                fast (479 k)

   Have you Ever Littered?

                                slow (288 k)

                                fast (478 k)

   A City without Trash

                                slow (285 k)

                                fast (473 k)

   What Should we do with People who Litter?

   Baltimore Sikhs and Mayor O'Malley

   Mayor O'Malley meets with representatives of Baltimore's American Sikhs
   to discuss community relations and tolerance in the wake of the
   September 11th tragedy.

   Childhood Sexual Abuse Conference hosted by Baltimore City's Health
   Department, November 2nd

   Falling leaves? Its not too soon to think about it. Baltimore's new
   leaf collection program

   PROTECTING BALTIMORE:
   The Tip Hotline (410) 396-2640 has been established to accept reports
   of suspicious behaviour.
   Rumor Control is (410) 396-1188 for factual information on emergency
   situations.

   proudly American September 14, 2001: Day of Prayer and Remembrance

   In commemoration of his outstanding career, Cal Ripken is being honored
   by Mayor O'Malley and the municipality of Baltimore. Download your very
   own number 8 to print and display so that everyone can celebrate our
   local hero.

   Rush hour just got better! Municipal rush hour traffic will become
   smoother with the imposition of a new tow away policy for the Citys
   major gateways.

   Mayor and Hasim Rahman kick-off Rahman-Lewis II: The Final Judgment
   Promoter Don King presides over proceedings

   Environmental Crimes Unit makes another arrest  If you suspect illegal
   dumping activity, please call the Environmental Crimes Unit at
   410-396-4707. Even more information can be found in this nifty brochure
   (pdf).

   Mayor at Hollins-Payson Library Mayor O'Malley Announces Plans: Library
   Buildings Remain Open to Community


   DPW & HCD Conduct Massive Cleanup in West Baltimore

   The Right Combination: Drug treatment on demand and quality of life
   policing yield positive dividends.

   Mayor and Heavyweight Champ Announce Youth Boxing Program

   Mayor O'Malley's Hispanic Liaison Office Sponsors Bi-lingual
   Home-buying Workshop [En Espanol]

   Mayor Appoints New Director for City Office of Personnel

   Mayor Announces Appointment of Transportation Director

   How Dowdy Old Baltimore Turned Fashionable
   The New York Times visits Baltimore. Here's what they noticed.

   Crime Reduction Continues
   Year-to-date crime statistics have been tallied, and the results are
   here.

   Mayor O'Malley Looks to Arts as Jumpstart for More Economic Development
    You can now download the RFP if interested in applying.

   The Greater Baltimore Committee and Presidents' Roundtable have stepped
   up again to offer recommendations towards improving City management and
   resources. This time, a close examination of the Department of
   Personnel is revealed.

   The Baltimore Zoo has given Marylanders 125 years of enjoyment, making
   it the 3rd oldest institution of its kind in the nation. In order to
   build upon its heritage as a cultural anchor for Baltimore, Mayor
   O'Malley has joined its Board of Trustees in launching a major capital
   fund-raising campaign. All citizens are encouraged to show their
   support for one of Baltimore's most treasured institutions.

   [EMBED]

   Mayor O'Malley Announces Taskforce to Ensure an Inclusive Baltimore

   Mayor O'Malley Bridges Historic Agreement; Secures Much Needed Revenue
   for City

   Playgrounds map Mayor O'Malley unveils blue print for playgrounds,
   which are being renovated throughout Baltimore this year. Find out
   where.

   Baltimore City Public Schools Students Demonstrating Noticeable
   Improvements in Comprehensive Test of Basic Skills

   Wondering about Baltimore/ Washington's bid for the 2012 Olympics?

   A Few Facts Concerning the City's Budget and Proposed Solutions

   The Department of Housing & Community Development Takes on
   Recommendations from the Greater Baltimore Committee and Presidents'
   Roundtable's Managing for Success Report to Mayor Martin O'Malley

   The State Is Providing Record Levels Of Support For Baltimore's
   Priorities Baltimore's progress is inspiring confidence in Annapolis -
   as well as more State investment during the 2001 Legislative Session.

   Mayor O'Malley Announces City Commitment to Minority Participation in
   Major Redevelopment Efforts • The Plan Itself

   Fish Out of Water logo Baltimore's Fish Out of Water program
   Beginning next month, dozens of six-foot long fiberglass fish will
   surface around Baltimore, each transformed into a unique work of art by
   local artists. An ensuing public auction will benefit several local
   youth programs: MACAC City Arts Grants Program, Baltimore City School
   Fine Arts Program, and the Mayor's initiative to wire all city
   classrooms.

   Baltimore's Budget: Setting Priorities, Mayor O'Malley's most recent
   Cabinet & legislative presentation, March 20, 2001 (1,019K .pdf
   requires Acrobat Reader)

   A pledge to the Citizens of Baltimore that potholes will be filled
   within 48 hours of being reported. And, more than you'd ever want to
   know about potholes in Baltimore City.

   New cruiser markings Mayor calls for public support for law enforcement
   officers
   Headlights on everyone, in commemoration of the 5 City officers killed
   in the line of duty over 1 year.

   Mayor O'Malley favors Governor Glendening's anti-discrimination bill
   Mayor Martin O'Malley traveled to Annapolis today to urge the passing
   of a bill that would make illegal discrimination based on sexual
   orientation throughout the state of Maryland.

   The Latest Smart Growth Developments Within Baltimore:
   The Digital Harbor, the West Side Revitalization Initiative, and the
   Jones Falls Valley Master Plan


   Home | News | Government | Business | Services | Neighborhoods | Mayor
                             | Visitor | Search

                                  Webmaster

                          Revised: January 24, 2002
