http://fire.pppl.gov/EC_PR_green_paper.pdf

   ,3 Brussels, 29 November 2000 7KH &RPPLVVLRQ ODXQFKHV DQ RYHUDOO GHEDWH
   RQ D IXWXUH HXURSHDQ HQHUJ\ VWUDWHJ\ ZLWK D *UHHQ 3DSHU RQ WKH HQHUJ\
   VXSSO\ VHFXULW\ 7RGD\ WKH &RPPLVVLRQ DGRSWHG D *UHHQ 3DSHU RQ VXSSO\
   VHFXULW\ LQ RUGHU WR ODXQFK D GHEDWH RQ WKH JHRSROLWLFDO HFRQRPLF DQG
   HQYLURQPHQWDO VWDNHV LQYROYHG LQ VHFXULQJ WKH (XURSHDQ 8QLRQ¶V HQHUJ\
   VXSSO\ ³&RQIURQWHG ZLWK ERWK LQFUHDVLQJ H[WHUQDO GHSHQGHQFH DQG WKH
   XUJHQF\ RI WKH ILJKW DJDLQVW FOLPDWH FKDQJH WKH (XURSHDQ 8QLRQ FDQQRW
   EH FRPSODFHQW´ VDLG /R\ROD GH 3DODFLR YLFH SUHVLGHQW LQ FKDUJH RI
   (QHUJ\ DQG 7UDQVSRUW 6KH DGGHG ³:H KDYH WR EH DZDUH RI WKH HIIRUWV
   QHHGHG DQG WU\ DQG GHILQH D UHDO (XURSHDQ VWUDWHJ\ PRUH FRKHUHQW DQG
   UHVSRQVLEOH LW PHDQV D ZLGHU HQHUJ\ VXSSO\ DQG D JHQXLQH SROLF\ RI
   UDWLRQDOLVDWLRQ RI HQHUJ\ FRQVXPSWLRQ SDUWLFXODUO\ LQ WKH EXLOGLQJ DQG
   WUDQVSRUW VHFWRUV ´ The main elements of this reflection are the
   following: 7KH (XURSHDQ 8QLRQ IDFHV VWUXFWXUDO ZHDNQHVVHV LQ WKH HQHUJ\
   VHFWRU - The European Union produces only half of its needs. If nothing
   is done, between now and 20 to 30 years, the Union will meet its energy
   needs with 70% by products imported against 50% currently. - Current
   energy consumption is covered for 41% by oil, 22% by natural gas, 16%
   by solid fuels (coal, lignite, peat), 15% by nuclear power and 6% by
   renewable. By 2030 the energy balance will continue to rely on fossil
   fuels: 38% oil, 29% natural gas, 19% solid fuels, 6% nuclear power and
   barely 8% renewable. - Dependence is seen in all sectors of the
   economy. Without deceleration of the growth in consumption in the
   principal expansion sectors, transport, electricity and domestic, the
   energy dependence of the Union will be increasingly alarming. - Thus,
   transport, the domestic sector and electricity are largely tributary of
   the hydrocarbons and at the mercy of erratic international price
   variations. Some examples can illustrate the extensiveness of the
   challenge: - According to the countries, Transport accounts for 4% to
   10% of the GNP. One predicts between now and 2020 a 20% growth in the
   transport of passengers and more than 30% of goods. - Consumption of
   petroleum products in road transport has not ceases to grow and
   represents today almost half of oil consumption (47% of consumed oil)
   compared to 18% in 1973. Opening up the dependence of this sector on
   oil constitutes an ecological need and a technological challenge. -
   Electricity is a sector where the demand is particularly constant. In
   the years to come, it seems to have to develop at almost 2% a year -and
   in the candidate countries by 3% at least-. Electricity production
   depends on fossil fuels (coal, lignite, natural gas) and nuclear power
   (35%). Tomorrow it will depend on natural gas for almost 50%. - The
   consequences of dependence are important in economic terms. They
   represent, in 1999, 240 billion L H RI WRWDO LPSRUWV DQG RI WKH *13 In
   geopolitical terms, 45% of oil imports come from the Middle East and
   40% of natural gas imports from Russia. But the European Union does not
   have today all the means to make it possible to change the
   international market. &RPPRQ UHIOHFWLRQ LV WRGD\ QHFHVVDU\ Today,
   Member States bring different solutions for common problems, while they
   are more and more interdependent both in the fight against climate
   change and following the establishment of the internal energy market.
   In the future, energy policies will have to take into account these new
   conditions. Any energy policy decision taken by a Member State will
   inevitably have a recurring effect on the operation of the market in
   other Member States. Energy policy has taken a new Community dimension
   The fight against the climate change is difficult: inversion of the
   trends is more difficult than it appeared to be three years ago. Thus,
   while the Union stabilised its emissions of greenhouse gases in 2000,
   the forecasts of the European Environment Agency consider that they
   will increase by 5.2% between now and 2010. This increase in emissions
   is mainly due to economic growth and the development of our energy
   consumption, almost that of electricity and of transport, a consequence
   of our way of life. The fight against global warming aims initially at
   the consumption of fossil energy. Oil is responsible for 50% of CO2
   emissions and solid fuels and natural gas for the remainder. This
   situation requires more radical solutions. 7KH RXWOLQH RI D VWUDWHJ\
   The European Union cannot free itself from its increasing energy
   dependence without an active energy policy. This long-term energy
   strategy has to make it possible to reconcile the physical and
   continuous availability of the energy- generating products on the
   market at a price accessible for the well-being of its citizens and the
   smooth operation of the economy, whilst respecting environmental
   concerns. The Green Paper outlines the need to rebalance the policy of
   supply by clear actions for a policy of demand, which more promising
   room for manoeuvre. More precisely, the Green Paper outlines the plan
   of a long-term energy strategy, in 5 main fields: 1. To Stop the waste:
   the Green Paper calls for a genuine change in consumer behaviour. The
   Commission will propose an active policy of energy saving and of
   diversification towards non-polluting energy. Therefore, it clarifies
   the advantage of the tax instrument with a view to directing the demand
   towards better-controlled consumption; more environmentally friendly. 2
   2. Need of a truly alternative Transport policy: in 2010, if the
   current trends were to continue, emissions would be up by 40 % compared
   to 1990 levels. We must revitalise the railways, to reorganise the road
   transport sector, to focus the infrastructure investments in railways
   on the bottlenecks, to rationalise the use of conventional private cars
   and to promote more environmentally friendly and efficient modes of
   transport. 3. To bet on the development of new and renewable energies:
   Doubling their share from 6 to 12% in the energy balance and passing
   from 14 to 22% for electricity production is an ambitious objective to
   be achieved between now and 2010. Under current conditions, they will
   stagnate around at 7% in 10 years. Only financial measures (State tax
   aid, tax deductions, and financial support) could support such an
   ambitious aim. Among the ways to be explored, one could envisage that
   profitable energies (oil, gas, nuclear power) finance the development
   of the renewable energy which did not benefit, like other conventional
   energy, from consequent support. 4 To maintain a relative autonomy: the
   medium-term contribution of nuclear power has to be the subject of an
   analysis, without omitting any element of the debate: decision of the
   majority of the Member States to opt out, waste management, global
   warming, the security of supplies as well as sustainable development.
   Notwithstanding the conclusions of this reflection, research on the
   technologies of waste management and their practical implementation
   under optimum safety conditions has actively to be continued. It also
   raises the need for an access to Community coal reserves and to
   maintain a minimum production platform for this purpose. 5. To find
   common solutions to common problems: this need for more cohesion must
   drive to accelerate the completion of the Single Market, to examine
   ways of strengthening European strategic oil stock mechanism, and
   consider extending it to natural gas. This common approach should also
   insist on a more coherent energy taxation to steer energy consumption
   towards more environmentally friendly sources. Finally, it should also
   strengthen and diversify supply networks. 2ULHQWDWLRQ RI WKH GHEDWH The
   Commission does not propose a ready-made strategy: it launches a wide-
   ranging and innovative discussion on the principal questions that it
   endeavours to identify, knowing that there are others. 1. Can the
   European Union accept an increase in its dependence on external energy
   sources without compromising its security of supply and European
   competitiveness? For which sources of energy would it be appropriate,
   if this were the case, to foresee a framework policy for imports? In
   this context, is it appropriate to favour an economic approach: energy
   cost; or geopolitical approach: risk of disruption? 2. Does not
   Europe's increasingly integrated internal market, where decisions taken
   in one country have an impact on the others, call for a consistent and
   co- ordinated policy at Community level? What should such a policy
   consist of and where should competition rules fit in? 3. Are tax and
   state aid policies in the energy sector an obstacle to competitiveness
   in the European Union or not? Given the failure of attempts to
   harmonise indirect taxation, should not the whole issue of energy
   taxation be re-examined taking account of energy and environmental
   objectives? 3 4. In the framework of an ongoing dialogue with producer
   countries, what should supply and investment promotion agreements
   contain? Given the importance of a partnership with Russia in
   particular, how can stable quantities, prices and investments be
   guaranteed? 5. Should more reserves be stockpiled -as already done for
   oil - and should other energy sources be included, such as gas or coal?
   Should the Community take on a greater role in stock management and, if
   so, what should the objectives and modalities be? Does the risk of
   physical disruption to energy supplies justify more onerous measures
   for access to resources? 6. How can we ensure the development and
   better operation of energy transport networks in the European Union and
   neighbouring countries that enable the internal market to function
   properly and guarantee security of supply? 7. The development of some
   renewable energy sources calls for major efforts in terms of Research
   and Technological Development, investment aid and operational aid.
   Should co-financing of this aid include a contribution from sectors
   which received substantial initial development aid and which are now
   highly profitable (gas, oil, nuclear)? 8. Seeing that nuclear energy is
   one of the elements in the debate on tackling climate change and energy
   autonomy, how can the Community find a solution to the problem of
   nuclear waste, reinforcing nuclear safety and developing research into
   reactors of the future, in particular fusion technology? 9. Which
   policies should permit the European Union to fulfil its obligations
   within the Kyoto Protocol? What measures could be taken in order to
   exploit fully potential energy savings which would help to reduce both
   our external dependence and CO2 emissions? 10. Can an ambitious
   programme to promote biofuels and other substitute fuels, including
   hydrogen, geared to 20% of total fuel consumption by 2020, continue to
   be implemented via national initiatives, or are co-ordinated decisions
   required on taxation, distribution and prospects for agricultural
   production? 11. Should energy saving in buildings (40% of energy
   consumption), whether public or private, new or under renovation, be
   promoted through incentives such as tax breaks, or are regulatory
   measures required along the lines of those adopted for major industrial
   installations? 12. Energy saving in the transport sector (32% of energy
   consumption) depends on redressing the growing imbalance between road
   haulage and rail. Is this imbalance inevitable, or could corrective
   action be taken, however unpopular, notably to encourage lower use of
   cars in urban areas? How can the aims of opening up the sector to
   competition, investment in infrastructure to remove bottlenecks and
   intermodality be reconciled? 13. How can we develop more collaborative
   visions and integrate the long-term dimension into deliberations and
   actions undertaken by public authorities and other involved parties in
   order to evolve a sustainable system of energy supply? How are we to
   prepare the energy options for the future? 4
