http://www.txwb.uscourts.gov/pdf/notice_adm_procedures.PDF

   N O T I C E ALL MEMBERS OF THE BANKRUPTCY BAR WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
   Please be advised that revised Administrative Procedures for Filing,
   Signing and Verifying Pleadings and Papers by Electronic Means has been
   published and are effective immediately. A copy of the revision is
   attached for your convenience. Specifically I direct your attention to
   Section II, Paragraph E and Paragraph F where changes have been made.
   Basically the procedures eliminate the requirement to submit proposed
   orders along with applications/motions. Additionally, original exhibits
   and/or attachments to pleadings should be retained by the filer and a
   summary of what the exhibit/attachment reflects should be attached to
   the document being filed. Also, for your information, several questions
   on the subject of submission of orders were raised at the Bench Bar
   Conference held in San Antonio in early September. In an effort to
   enlighten you on the reasoning behind the changes we have implemented,
   I ask you to read an informal memorandum prepared by Judge Larry E.
   Kelly. The memorandum is attached to this notice along with the revised
   procedures. Lawrence T. Bick Clerk of Court November 14, 2001 Rev.
   11/01 UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR FILING, SIGNING AND VERIFYING PLEADINGS
   AND PAPERS BY ELECTRONIC MEANS I. REGISTRATION FOR THE ELECTRONIC
   FILING SYSTEM A. DESIGNATION OF CASES The court shall designate which
   cases shall be assigned to the Electronic Filing System ("System"). The
   current implementation/activation date can be viewed at the court's Web
   site www.txwb.uscourts.gov. B. PASSWORDS Each attorney is required to
   use a password to participate in the electronic retrieval and filing of
   pleadings and other papers in accordance with the System. Registration
   for a password is governed by Paragraph I.C. C. REGISTRATION 1. Each
   attorney desiring to file pleadings or other papers electronically must
   complete and sign an Attorney Registration Form and a Credit Card
   Blanket Authorization Form. 2. All signed original Registration Forms
   and Credit Card Forms shall be mailed to the ECF Help Desk, U.S.
   Bankruptcy Court, P.O. Box 1439, San Antonio, TX 78295-1439 or
   delivered to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, 615 E. Houston St., San
   Antonio, TX, Attn.: ECF Help Desk. 3. Upon approval of the Credit Card
   Blanket Authorization Form, each attorney will receive telephonic
   notice from the Office of the Clerk indicating that an envelope
   containing the attorney's assigned System password is available for
   pick-up at the Office of the Clerk. Only the attorney or an authorized
   representative may pick up the envelope. Out of district attorneys
   applying for registration may communicate with the Office -1- Rev.
   11/01 of the Clerk to arrange for delivery of the system password. 4.
   Once registered, an attorney may withdraw from participation in the
   System by providing the ECF Help Desk with notice of such withdrawal.
   Such notice must be in writing. Upon receipt, the ECF Help Desk will
   immediately cancel the attorney's password and will delete the
   attorney's name from any applicable electronic service list. 5. If any
   of the information on the Registration changes, e.g., mailing address,
   e-mail address, etc., the attorney must submit an Amended Registration
   form to the attention of the ECF Help Desk. II. FILING AND SERVICE OF
   DOCUMENTS A. FILING 1. All petitions, motions, pleadings, memoranda of
   law, or other documents required to be filed with the court in
   connection with a case assigned to the System may be electronically
   filed on the System. 2. When filing expedited matters, the filing
   attorney shall immediately advise the judge's courtroom deputy clerk of
   the filing by phone or fax. The telephone and fax numbers for the
   courtroom deputies are available on the court's Web site at
   www.txwb.uscourts.gov. B. SERVICE 1. Whenever a pleading or other paper
   is filed electronically in accordance with these Procedures, the System
   will automatically generate a "Notice of Electronic Filing" by
   electronic means at the time of docketing. 2. The filing attorney shall
   serve the pleading or other paper upon all persons entitled to notice
   or service in accordance with the applicable rules, or, if service by
   first class mail is permitted under the rules, the filing attorney may
   make service in accordance with Paragraph II.B.3 below. 3. An attorney
   filing a pleading or other paper electronically may serve the Notice of
   Electronic Filing by electronic means and such service will be
   considered the equivalent of service of the pleading or other paper by
   first -2- Rev. 11/01 class mail, postage prepaid, if and only if the
   recipient of notice or service is a registered participant in the
   System and agrees in writing with the filer to accept such service in
   lieu of service by first class mail. C. SIGNATURES 1. All pleadings and
   other papers and documents electronically filed shall either contain a
   scanned image of any signature(s) therein or indicate the signature by
   putting "/s/ Jane Doe" where the original signature occurs. 2. Filing
   of Pleadings, Documents and Other Papers Requiring Original or Verified
   Signatures. a. Electronic Filings by Registered Attorneys and Parties
   with Legal Representation. Petitions, lists, schedules, statements,
   amendments, pleadings, affidavits and other documents that must contain
   original signatures or that requires verification under FRBP 1008 or an
   unsworn declaration as provided in 28 U.S.C. § 1746 may be filed
   electronically by attorneys registered in the System. A copy containing
   an original signature must be retained by the attorney who files such a
   pleading, document or other paper for four (4) years after the closing
   of the case. b. Other Filings After docketing, the Clerk shall transmit
   to the trustee appointed in the case or to the United States Trustee,
   if the case is a Chapter 9 or 11 case without a case trustee, the
   originals of all petitions, lists, schedules, statements, amendments,
   pleadings, affidavits and other documents that must contain original
   signatures, or which require verification under FRBP 1008 or an unsworn
   declaration as provided in 28 U.S.C. § 1746. D. FEES PAYABLE TO THE
   CLERK Prior to the electronic filing of any pleading or paper requiring
   a filing fee, a Credit Card Blanket Authorization Form, which is
   available on the Court's web site, must have been received and approved
   by the Financial Administrator of the Office of the Clerk. -3- Rev.
   11/01 E. ORDERS 1. Orders on Motions with "20 day" or "15 day"
   "negative notice language" found in Bankruptcy Local Rules
   4001(a)(1)(B) or 9014(a). After the expiration of the last date for
   serving and filing objections, if none have been filed, the moving
   party shall submit to the court an order for entry that grants the
   relief requested in the original pleading. In addition, the following
   paragraph shall be appended at the end of the order, before the
   signature line: The entity submitting this order represents to the
   court that the underlying motion was filed and served in conformity
   with the local rules, that no pleading or response has been filed in
   opposition thereto, and that the relief to be granted by this order is
   consistent with the relief plead for in that motion." Two (2) lines
   below the line for the court's signature, at the left margin, the
   following information regarding the submitting entity shall be
   submitted: "This order was prepared and is being submitted by: Firm
   name By _____________ Attorney for (party)" 2. All Other Orders On all
   pleadings filed without "negative notice language", moving parties must
   separately submit a form of order for entry by the court for each
   pleading for which relief is requested, whether it is an ex parte
   matter [Bank. L. Rule 9013(c)], a motion seeking expedited treatment
   [Bank. L. Rule 9013(d)], an application, or a contested matter either
   in a case or in an adversary proceeding within a case. 3. Cover Sheets
   All orders being submitted to the court shall be accompanied by a cover
   sheet. The court is working on a procedure to enable parties to submit
   orders electronically which will require a specific description on the
   "subject line". The current Order Submission Form found in Appendix
   L-9022 is outdated. For this reason, the -4- Rev. 11/01 court's current
   Cover Sheet found in its local rules as Appendix L-9022 is hereby
   abrogated and a new form of Cover Sheet substituted therefor, which is
   to be used for all Orders submitted. The new cover sheet form is
   attached to this document. F. ATTACHMENTS TO PLEADINGS AND PROOF OF
   CLAIMS All exhibits or attachments to pleadings must be summarized. The
   summary only is to be attached to the document that is filed with the
   Court. A copy of the complete exhibit or attachment must be served
   together with the pleading on entities as specified in L. Rule 9013(g).
   If a hearing is required, or if the court otherwise orders, the
   complete exhibit or attachment should be provided to the Court at the
   time of the hearing and served or provided to any objecting party.
   Similarly, all exhibits or attachments to Proof of Claims must be
   summarized and only the summary is to be attached to the Proof of Claim
   that is filed with the Court. Pursuant to L. Rule 3002(a), the complete
   Proof of Claim, including original exhibits, attachments or supporting
   documentation must be served on the Debtor's attorney (or on the
   Debtor, if the Debtor is pro se) and any trustee appointed in the case.
   Upon request, creditors must provide a copy of the original
   documentation to any party objecting to their claim, as well as to the
   Court, in the event of a dispute. G. DOCUMENTS TO BE FILED UNDER SEAL A
   motion to file document(s) under seal may be filed electronically;
   however, the actual document(s) to be filed under seal shall be filed
   conventionally and only after the motion is granted. The order of the
   court authorizing the filing of such document(s) under seal will be
   entered electronically by the Clerk and a paper copy of the order shall
   be attached to the document(s) under seal and delivered to the Clerk at
   the time of the filing of the document(s). H. TITLE OF DOCKET ENTRIES
   An attorney who electronically files a pleading or other document shall
   be responsible for designating a docket entry title for the document by
   using one of the docket event categories prescribed by the court. I.
   CORRECTING DOCKET ENTRIES Once a document is submitted and becomes part
   of the case docket, corrections to the docket are made only by the
   Clerk. -5- Rev. 11/01 III. PUBLIC ACCESS TO THE SYSTEM DOCKET A. PUBLIC
   ACCESS AT THE COURT Electronic access to the electronic docket and
   documents filed in the System is available to the public at no charge
   at each Divisional Office of the Clerk during regular business hours.
   B. INTERNET ACCESS Although any person can retrieve and view documents
   in the System and access information from it without charge at the
   Clerk's Offices, electronic access to the System for viewing purposes
   is otherwise limited to subscribers to the Public Access to Court
   Electronic Records ("PACER") System and, in accordance with the ruling
   of the Judicial Conference of the United States, a user fee will be
   charged for accessing certain detailed case information, such as
   reviewing filed documents and docket sheets, but excluding review of
   calendars and similar general information. Information regarding
   subscribing to PACER is available at the court's Web site at
   www.txwb.uscourts.gov and at each Divisional Office of the Clerk. C.
   CONVENTIONAL COPIES AND CERTIFIED COPIES Conventional copies and
   certified copies of electronically filed documents may be purchased at
   the Office of the Clerk. The fee for copying and certification will be
   in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 1930. -6- UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
   WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS ___________________DIVISION ORDER SUBMISSION
   FORM RE: [Fill in Case Name & Adversary Style, as applicable] SUBJECT
   LINE: [see directions below] Please Note: You must follow the format
   set out below under "Directions" to fill in the subject line. Order
   Submission Forms which do not follow this format may be returned with
   the Order unsigned. SUBMITTED BY: (Please include your name, the firm
   name, address, telephone, fax, and email, as applicable) DIRECTIONS
   òYou must use one of the following formats to complete the Subject
   Line: Ex Parte - [case or adversary number] e.g. Ex Parte - 00-51234
   Expedited - [case or adversary number] e.g. Expedited - 00-51234 Order
   (no hearing) - [case or adversary number] e.g. Order (no hearing) -
   00-51234 Order (hearing set) - [Hearing Date and Time] - [case or
   adversary number] e.g. Order (hearing set) - 01/01/01 9:30 a.m. -
   00-51234 Suspense - [case or adversary number] e.g. Suspense - 00-51234
   ò If the order is on a contested matter, use the case number; if the
   order or judgment is submitted in an adversary proceeding, use only the
   adversary number. ò Use "Order (no hearing)" only for orders on matters
   which are not going to be set for hearing, and which were not filed
   with negative notice language. ò Use "Order (hearing set)" for any
   order or judgment on a matter for which a hearing has been set, whether
   the order is being submitted before or after the hearing setting. Be
   sure to include the hearing date and time in the following format:
   "01/01/01 -9:30 a.m." ò Use "Suspense" for orders submitted on a
   pending matter that was filed with "negative notice" language
   (including adversary motions that are filed on negative notice), and to
   which there was no objection. -7- M E M O R A N D U M To: Judges
   Monroe, Clark, King and Larry Bick From: Judge Larry Kelly Date:
   October 5, 2001 Re: Bar questions on e-filing After our judges'
   meeting, I undertook to review the issues surrounding the questions
   that Mr. Bick sent to us about submission of orders on electronic
   documents. Here are my suggestions. To do this, I'll restate the
   questions and provide answers as I go. Ultimately I believe we'd
   actually mail our response here to all registered users of cm/ecf (this
   is where these questions came from); send a copy to our bar presidents;
   and, post a copy at each clerk's office with a specific notation that
   documents being modified can also be downloaded from our website at
   http://www.txwb.uscourts.gov. Q1. Why can't the Judge use the order
   attached to the motion/application? We could do this. But remember that
   this is for electronically filed pleadings/motions or applications-thus
   we'd have to type in the case # for each case, go through the docket
   sheet to find the particular pleading, click on it, go to the end, and
   separately print each and every order one at a time. Then we'd sign the
   hard copy and the staff would then "scan" it back into the system. Of
   course there is the issue of what would even trigger the knowledge that
   there is a pleading that is "ready" for signatures. I propose to modify
   our Standing Order and Administrative Procedures (see notes after Q2).
   Q2. Why attach the order if it is not going to be signed? Why can't
   they just submit a separate order? They are having to do two different
   orders since one must have the word "Proposed" in the title. The reason
   we are not routinely signing is explained in response to question #1.
   Apparently some people think it is difficult to "delete" the word
   "Proposed" prior to printing out the already typed order, thus stating
   that they have to prepare "two different orders." Proposal: I suggest
   that we prepare a First Amended Standing Order Relating to Electronic
   Case Filing . . . with the same language as our original order, except
   that it would note that the Administrative Procedures for Filing,
   Signing and Verifying Pleadings and Papers by Electronic Means is being
   amended. Then we prepare First Amended Administrative Procedures . . .
   All we need to do here is modify paragraph II. E. 1. It now requires
   that a proposed form of order be submitted with every motion and other
   pleading requesting relief. I suggest it be restated as follows:
   "Proposed forms of orders shall NOT be submitted with electronically
   filed pleadings. The actual order to be signed by the court will be
   submitted in accordance with the procedures outlined below." (The rest
   of our procedures require no further amendments) Q3. Why are they
   having to be responsible for holding the order until the response
   deadline has passed? If they file conventionally, they do not have to
   do this, so why is electronic filing different? First we need to
   remember that most bankruptcy courts in the country either do not allow
   negative notice pleadings at all, or the type of pleadings which can
   utilize negative notice is severely limited, e.g., TX/E and TX/S don't
   allow negative notice on objections to claims. With conventional
   pleadings, the court staff physically has a document in their hand
   which shows the name/case no. and type of pleading. It is easy to
   organize alphabetically, match up with responses if and when filed, and
   to pull when the requisite time period has passed. However, with
   electronically filed pleadings the staff not only has no physical
   document to use for matching up and determining when the time period
   has passed, they don't even know it has been filed. It is difficult to
   run reports every day to determine IF a pleading with negative notice
   has been filed (as some are filed daily), and to keep up with the time.
   Furthermore, we run into the same problem with orders as discussed in
   response to Q#1. Frankly we believed that the attorneys pretty much
   kept up with the time periods based on the number of calls we receive
   when orders don't get signed promptly. However, with the new procedure,
   judges can rely on the express representations, sign the orders
   promptly and the difficulties in "finding" negative notice pleadings
   and keeping up with dates are done away with. Q4. Having to append that
   paragraph on orders regarding motions with negative language is very
   time consuming. Why is that necessary? With computers and the ability
   to make "form orders" or to "cut and paste," it is difficult to
   understand how a boilerplate phrase is "time consuming". The purpose of
   the language is multiple. In the past we have occasionally experienced
   unfortunate incidents where an attorney files a pleading seeking one
   form of relief (e.g., motion to dismiss without prejudice; motion to
   avoid lien) and then submit an order with different relief (e.g., order
   dismissing with prejudice; order denying claim in full (they did not
   challenge the amount owed or the liability in the original filing, only
   the effectiveness of the security). The boilerplate language will allow
   the judges to rely on the representation, sign the orders without
   having to verify each case/pleading one at a time as to the time period
   having properly run without a response having been filed, and similarly
   rely on the representation as to the consistency of relief being
   ordered. In the event of a misstatement, the court is not limited by
   the 10-day appeal period because Rule 60 would open the door to relief.
   Without this process we might not be able to continue our liberal use
   of negative notice pleadings.
