http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/genscience_smr_final.pdf

   Preliminary General Science Subject Matter Requirements Domain 1.
   Astronomy Candidates understand that knowledge of the structure and
   composition of the universe can be learned from studying stars and
   galaxies and their evolution. They recognize that objects in the sky
   move in regular and predictable patterns. Candidates explain how and
   why the moon's appearance changes during the four-week lunar cycle.
   They understand how telescopes magnify the appearance of distant
   objects in the sky, including the moon and the planets. They realize
   that the solar system consists of planets and other bodies that orbit
   the sun in predictable paths. 1.1 Astronomy a. Describe the chemical
   composition and physical structure of the universe b. Describe and
   diagram the physical structure of the three main galaxy types c.
   Describe the structure of the solar system and its place in the Milky
   Way galaxy d. Distinguish between stars and planets e. Recognize that
   stars vary in color, size, and luminosity f. Describe a simple model of
   how fusion in stars produces heavier elements and results in the
   production of energy, including light g. Compare and contrast the
   physical characteristics, including gravity, of rocky and gaseous
   planets h. Recognize that extrasolar planets exist i. Describe the
   regular and predictable patterns of stars and planets in time and
   location j. Explain how Kepler's laws describe orbital motion k.
   Explain and predict changes in the moon's appearance (phases) l.
   Describe the use of astronomical instruments in collecting data, and
   use astronomical units and light years to describe distances Domain 2.
   Dynamic Processes of the Earth (Geodynamics) Candidates understand that
   Earth's features can be explained by a variety of dynamic processes
   that have occurred in the past and continue to occur. They understand
   that plate tectonics account for most of the important features of
   Earth's surface and major geologic events. Candidates explain how
   surficial processes and agents such as waves, wind, water, and ice are
   slowly modifying Earth's land surface. They understand how weathering,
   transport, and deposition of sediment are related to this reshaping.
   Candidates are familiar with evidence from rocks that allows us to
   understand geologic history and the evolution of life on Earth. They
   can use observed properties of rocks and minerals to determine their
   processes of formation. Candidates understand that most of the energy
   on the Earth comes from the sun. They know that energy from the sun
   heats Earth unevenly, causing air movements that result in changing
   weather patterns. They use their understanding of heat to explain the
   many phenomena on Earth's surface that are affected by the transfer of
   energy through radiation and convection. Science, General Science 1 2.1
   Tectonic Processes and Features a. Diagram the features that provide
   evidence for plate tectonics b. Summarize the thermal processes driving
   plate movement c. Explain how density and buoyancy are related to plate
   tectonics d. Describe the location of the major plates and their speed
   and direction of movement e. Describe spatial relationships of major
   geologic events and their genesis f. Describe types of plate boundaries
   g. Explain major geologic features of California in terms of tectonic
   evolution h. Relate the causes of volcanoes, earthquakes, and earth
   resources to tectonic processes i. Summarize earthquake processes in
   terms of epicenter, focal mechanism, distance, and materials, and the
   role various factors play in the amount of damage caused by an
   earthquake j. Describe and compare types of waves in earthquakes 2.2
   Rock Formation a. Diagram and explain the rock cycle b. Describe
   relative and absolute dating techniques, including how half-lives are
   used in radiometric dating c. Describe the law of superposition and
   relative age dating d. Identify evidence, including radioactivity,
   stratigraphy, fossils, magnetism of rocks, geochemistry, and
   atmospheric composition, for the age of the earth e. Identify the broad
   divisions of geologic time and the major fossil classes of each f.
   Compare uniformitarianism and catastrophism g. Summarize the evidence
   in rocks and plant fossils for the evolution of the atmosphere 2.3
   Shaping Earth's Surface: Surficial Processes and Features a. Describe
   the dynamic processes of erosion, deposition, and transport b. Describe
   coastal processes including beach erosion and natural hazards c.
   Explain the location of deserts on Earth d. Describe the significance
   of geologic structures and rock properties to surficial processes e.
   Describe the effects of natural hazards, including earthquakes,
   volcanic eruptions, landslides, and floods, on natural and human-made
   habitats and environmental and human responses to those events 2.4
   Energy in the Earth System a. Diagram the water cycle and describe
   interrelationships of surface and sub- surface reservoirs b. Explain
   daily and seasonal changes in the sky (i.e., the sun's position and the
   intensity and duration of sunlight) c. Analyze the uneven heating of
   Earth by the sun d. Discuss the effects of air movements on weather e.
   Explain how differences in atmospheric pressure determine direction of
   air movement Science, General Science 2 f. Describe the energy transfer
   processes of convection, conduction, and radiation in relation to the
   atmosphere/ocean and Earth's interior structure g. Interpret weather
   map data to predict weather patterns Domain 3. Earth Resources
   Candidates know there are many different natural energy and material
   resources, including air, soil, rocks, minerals, petroleum, fresh
   water, wildlife, and forests, and know how to classify them as
   renewable or nonrenewable. They realize that sources of energy and
   materials differ in amounts, distribution, usefulness, and the time
   required for their formation. Candidates understand that the utility of
   energy sources is determined by factors that are involved in converting
   these sources to useful forms and the consequences of the conversion
   process. They know the natural origin of the materials used to make
   common objects. 3.1 Earth Resources a. Describe a variety of energy
   resources, including fossil fuels, nuclear fuels, solar, and biomass b.
   Recognize earth materials as resources (e.g., rocks, minerals, soils,
   and water) c. Describe natural resources such as open space, potable
   water, and wildlife d. Identify resources as renewable vs. nonrenewable
   e. Compare extraction and recycling in relation to energy, cost, and
   demand f. Identify the natural origins and spatial distribution of
   material resources for common objects, including common ore minerals as
   sources of copper, lead, zinc, and aluminum, and industrial mineral
   resources such as sand, gravel, rock aggregate, gypsum, and limestone
   g. Describe the presence and distribution of earth resources in
   California, including, but not limited to, fossil fuels, sand, gravel,
   rock, and metal h. Explain sustainable uses of resources with respect
   to utility, cost, human population, and environmental consequences
   Domain 4. Ecology Candidates understand how organisms in ecosystems
   exchange energy and nutrients among themselves and with the
   environment. They can identify factors that affect organisms within an
   ecosystem, including natural hazards and human activity. 4.1 Ecology a.
   Explain energy flow and nutrient cycling through ecosystems (e.g., food
   chain, food web) b. Explain matter transfer (e.g., biogeochemical
   cycles) in ecosystems c. Distinguish between abiotic and biotic factors
   in an ecosystem d. Compare the roles of photosynthesis and respiration
   in an ecosystem e. Describe interrelationships within and among
   ecosystems (e.g., predator/prey) f. Identify and explain factors that
   affect population types and size (e.g., competition for resources,
   niche, habitats, species and population interactions, abiotic factors)
   Science, General Science 3 g. Describe the effects of natural hazards
   on various habitats (e.g., earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, landslides,
   fire, floods) h. Describe the impact of humans on ecosystems Domain 5.
   Genetics and Evolution Candidates understand that a typical cell of any
   organism contains genetic instructions that specify its traits. They
   can explain how biological evolution accounts for the diversity of
   species that developed through gradual processes over many generations.
   Candidates can describe evidence used to explain the evolution of life
   on Earth. 5.1 Genetics and Evolution a. Explain the inheritance of
   traits which are determined by one or more genes, including dominance,
   recessiveness, sex linkage, phenotypes, genotypes, and incomplete
   dominance b. Solve problems that illustrate monohybrid and dihybrid
   crosses c. Compare sexual and asexual reproduction d. Explain how the
   coding of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) controls the expression of traits
   by genes e. Define mutations and explain their types and causes f.
   Explain the process of DNA replication g. Describe evidence, past and
   present, that supports the theory of evolution, including diagramming
   relationships that demonstrate shared characteristics of fossil and
   living organisms h. Explain the theory of natural selection, including
   adaptation, speciation, and extinction i. List major events that
   affected the evolution of life on Earth (e.g., climate changes,
   asteroid impacts) Domain 6. Molecular Biology and Biochemistry
   Candidates understand and apply the principles of chemistry that
   underlie the functioning of biological systems. They describe the
   properties of biochemical compounds that make them essential to life.
   6.1 Molecular Biology and Biochemistry a. Demonstrate understanding
   that a small subset of elements (C, H, O, N, P, S ) makes up most of
   the chemical compounds in living organisms by combining in many ways b.
   Recognize and differentiate the structure and function of molecules in
   living organisms, including carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and
   nucleic acids c. Describe the process of protein synthesis, including
   transcription and translation d. Compare anaerobic and aerobic
   respiration e. Describe the process of photosynthesis in terms of
   light-induced reactions and the Calvin cycle Science, General Science 4
   Domain 7. Cell and Organismal Biology Candidates understand that all
   living organisms are composed of cells and explain important cellular
   processes. They describe and give examples of how the anatomy and
   physiology of plants and animals illustrate the complementary nature of
   structure and function. Candidates demonstrate understanding of
   physical principles that underlie biological structures and functions.
   They apply these principles to important biological systems. 7.1 Cell
   and Organismal Biology a. Describe organelles and explain their
   function in the cell b. Relate the structure of organelles and cells to
   their functions c. Identify and contrast animal and plant cells d.
   Explain the conversion, flow, and storage of energy of the cell e.
   Identify the function and explain the importance of mitosis and meiosis
   as processes of cellular and organismal reproduction f. Compare
   single-celled and multicellular organisms, noting the role of cell
   differentiation in the development of multicellular organisms g.
   Describe the levels of organization (e.g., cells, tissues, organs,
   systems, organisms) in plants and animals h. Describe the structures
   and functions of human body systems, including, but not limited to, the
   skeletal, reproductive, nervous, and circulatory systems i. Explain the
   major structures and their functions in vascular and nonvascular plants
   j. Describe the life processes of various plant groups, including
   reproduction, photosynthesis, respiration, and transpiration k. Explain
   the reproductive processes in flowering plants l. Identify examples
   where the physical principles of fluid flow, optics, and mechanics can
   be applied to living systems Domain 8. Waves Candidates understand that
   all waves have a common set of characteristic properties. They apply
   their knowledge of these properties to describe and predict the
   behavior of waves, including light waves, sound waves, and seismic
   waves. Candidates apply the simple principles of optics to explain how
   various lenses work. 8.1 Waves a. Describe transverse and longitudinal
   waves b. Compare the characteristics of sound, light, and seismic waves
   (e.g., transverse/longitudinal, travel through various media, relative
   speed) c. Explain that energy is transferred by waves without mass
   transfer and provide examples d. Diagram the relative positions in the
   electromagnetic spectrum of radio, microwave, infrared, visible
   spectrum, ultraviolet, and X-rays e. Explain how lenses are used in
   simple optical systems, including the camera, telescope, microscope,
   and the eye f. Explain and apply the laws of reflection and refraction
   Science, General Science 5 g. Calculate quantities involving wave
   length, wave speed, and frequency h. Compare transmission, reflection,
   and absorption of light in matter i. Explain the Doppler effect and
   provide examples Domain 9. Forces and Motion Candidates describe the
   motion of an object and understand the relationships among its
   velocity, speed, distance, time, and acceleration. They understand the
   relationship among force, mass, and acceleration. Candidates use
   Newton's laws to predict the motion of objects. 9.1 Forces and Motion
   a. Discuss and apply Newton's laws (i.e., first, second, third, and law
   of universal gravitation) b. Define pressure and relate it to fluid
   flow and buoyancy (e.g., heart valves, atmospheric pressure) c.
   Describe the relationships among position, distance, displacement,
   speed, velocity, acceleration, and time, and perform simple
   calculations using these variables for both linear and circular motion
   d. Identify the separate forces that act on a body (e.g., gravity,
   pressure, tension/compression, normal force, friction) and describe the
   net force on the body e. Construct and analyze simple vector and
   graphical representations of motion and forces (e.g., distance, speed,
   time) f. Identify fundamental forces, including gravity, nuclear
   forces, and electromagnetic forces (magnetic and electric), and explain
   their roles in nature, such as the role of gravity in maintaining the
   structure of the universe g. Describe the causal relationships among
   heat, friction, and motion h. Explain and calculate mechanical
   advantages for levers, pulleys, and inclined planes Domain 10.
   Electricity and Magnetism Candidates understand that electric and
   magnetic phenomena are related. They use knowledge of electricity and
   magnetism to explain many practical applications. 10.1 Electricity and
   Magnetism a. Describe and provide examples of electrostatic and
   magnetostatic phenomena b. Predict charges or poles based on
   attraction/repulsion observations c. Build a simple compass and use it
   to determine direction of magnetic fields, including the Earth's
   magnetic field d. Relate electric currents to magnetic fields and
   describe the application of these relationships, such as in
   electromagnets, electric current generators, motors, and transformers
   e. Design and interpret simple series and parallel circuits f. Define
   and calculate power, voltage differences, current, and resistance in
   simple circuits Science, General Science 6 g. Recognize conservation of
   charge and energy and apply these to simple circuits Domain 11. Heat
   Transfer and Thermodynamics Candidates explain how heat flows in a
   predictable manner. They understand that energy cannot be created or
   destroyed, although in many processes energy is transferred to the
   environment as heat. Candidates apply their knowledge to explain how
   many phenomena on Earth's surface are affected by the transfer of
   energy through radiation and convection currents. 11.1 Heat Transfer
   and Thermodynamics a. Know the principle of conservation of energy and
   apply it to energy transfers b. Discuss how the transfer of energy as
   heat is related to changes in temperature c. Diagram the direction of
   heat flow in a system d. Describe the methods of heat transfer by
   conduction, convection, and radiation, and provide examples for all e.
   Explain how chemical potential energy in fuel is transformed to heat f.
   Design and explain experiments to induce a physical change such as
   freezing, melting, or boiling g. Distinguish between physical and
   chemical changes and provide examples of each Domain 12. Structure and
   Properties of Matter Candidates know that more than 100 elements of
   matter exist, each with distinct properties and a distinct atomic
   structure. They describe both macroscopic and microscopic properties of
   matter including intermolecular and intramolecular forces. They know
   that the organization of the periodic table is based on the properties
   of the elements and reflects the structure of atoms. Candidates
   understand how the periodic table is constructed and the periodic
   trends in chemical and physical properties that can be seen in the
   table. They recognize chemical reactions as processes that involve the
   rearrangement of electrons to break and form bonds with different
   atomic partners. Candidates demonstrate understanding of the principles
   of chemistry that underlie the functioning of biological systems. 12.1
   Structure and Properties of Matter a. Identify, describe, and diagram
   the basic components within an atom (i.e., proton, neutron, and
   electron) b. Know that isotopes of any element have different numbers
   of neutrons but the same number of protons, and that some isotopes are
   radioactive c. Differentiate between atoms, molecules, elements, and
   compounds d. Compare and contrast states of matter and describe the
   role energy plays in the conversion from one state to another e.
   Discuss the physical properties of matter including structure, melting
   point, boiling point, hardness, density, and conductivity f. Recognize
   that all chemical substances are characterized by a unique set of
   physical properties Science, General Science 7 g. Define and calculate
   density, and predict whether an object will sink or float in a fluid h.
   Explain that chemical changes in materials result in the formation of a
   new substance corresponding to the rearrangement of the atoms in
   molecules i. Explain and apply principles of conservation of matter to
   chemical reactions, including balancing chemical equations j. Explain
   the origin of heat energy changes that occur in chemical reactions k.
   Describe factors that affect rates of chemical reactions l. Distinguish
   among acidic, basic, and neutral solutions by their observable
   properties m. Describe the construction and organization of the
   periodic table n. Based on position in the periodic table, predict
   which elements have characteristics of metals, semi-metals, non-metals,
   and inert gases o. Explain chemical reactivity using position on the
   periodic table p. Predict and explain chemical bonding using elements'
   positions in the periodic table q. Recognize that inorganic and organic
   compounds (e.g., water, salt, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic
   acids) are essential to processes within living systems r. Explain the
   central role of carbon in living system chemistry Science, General
   Science 8
