http://www.usgcrp.gov/usgcrp/ProgramElements/water.htm

   About

        Site Map

                New

                   Library

                          Events

                                Links


   USGCRP Home -> Focus Areas -> The Global Water Cycle | Search
   USGCRP logo & link to home

                          Updated November 05, 2001

                                                   The Global Water Cycle
                                                   USGCRP Program Element




                           The Global Water Cycle

                                  Overview

                           Recent Accomplishments

                                New Postings

                              Archived Postings

                                Related Sites

                             Calls for Proposals


     A Plan for a New Science Initiative on the Global Water Cycle.  Draft
    report (dtd 2001)  from the Water Cycle Study Group (WCSG), chaired by
            George Hornberger of the University of Virginia. The group was
    appointed in late 1999 to advise the US Global Change Research Program
       (USCRP) agencies on the development of a Global Water Cycle Program
     within the USGCRP.   The Plan describes the rationale for an enhanced
        scientific research effort on the global water cycle over the next
            decade and poses three key science questions about water-cycle
             variability, about prediction, and about links with ecosystem
                                         processes.  (posted 27 June 2001)

   The movement of water through the land, atmosphere, and ocean is termed
   the global water cycle. The water cycle is intimately tied to the
   climate of the planet through processes including latent heat exchange
   and the radiative effects of water vapor. Similarly, climate influences
   the water resources of the planet through changes in evaporation and
   precipitation. In examining these processes, long-distance atmospheric
   transport of water, along with evaporation and precipitation, are the
   principal inputs in hydrological process and water-resource models. The
   study of the global water cycle is the unifying theme that can bridge
   the gap in the spatial-scale spectrum between atmospheric and
   hydrological sciences. This issue is in its first year and will be
   implemented through coordinated U.S. and international programs.
   Planning is underway to develop joint interagency programs in the U.S.
   and coordination with international programs [e.g., the Global Energy
   and Water Cycle Experiment (GEWEX), the Program on Climate Variability
   and Predictability (CLIVAR), Biological Aspects of the Hydrologic Cycle
   (BAHC), and potentially a more fully coordinated international
   Hydrology and Water Cycle Program].

   The primary goal of this research is a greater understanding of the
   seasonal, annual, and interannual mean state and variability of water
   and energy cycles at continental-to-global scales, and thus a greater
   understanding of the interactions among the terrestrial, atmospheric,
   and oceanic hydrosphere in the Earths climate system.

       This understanding will be achieved through a combination of
   observations, modeling, and analysis at a range of spatial and temporal
   scales, and will provide the foundations for understanding the
   relationship between weather (the manifestation of fast atmospheric
   hydrologic processes) and climate (the long-term statistical measures
   of these hydrological processes.) The research program aims at
   furthering our understanding of these relationships especially the
   relationship between the physical representation of fast hydrologic
   processes and climatic statistics; the relative roles of land,
   atmosphere, and ocean hydrologic processes in weather and climate at
   continental-to-global scales, from daily to interannual timescales; and
   a determination of how these relationships and roles vary globally and
   seasonally. Such advances should lead to improved inferences about the
   occurrence of severe weather events, such as floods and drought, that
   directly affect property and human safety, and permit the downscaling
   of hydrological variables (precipitation, surface meteorology, etc.)
   that can lead to improved water and environmental management.

       An important element of the research program is a quantitative
   assessment of the improved understanding for weather prediction and for
   water and environmental management. In addition, advances in
   understanding the relationships between hydrologic processes and
   climate will lead directly to better inferences regarding climate
   change and its subsequent hydrologic impacts at regional-to-global
   scales. Improving this understanding is hampered by the complexity of
   the nonlinear hydrologic processes, and in the heterogeneity related to
   both process forcings and process parameters that exists at all spatial
   and temporal scales. Understanding is also hampered by a lack of
   consistent, systematic observations, making it difficult to develop and
   test new theories and hypotheses regarding the global water cycle.

   Key research challenges include:
    1. Land Surface Interactions: Developing a better understanding of the
       coupling of land surface hydrologic processes to atmospheric
       processes over a range of spatial and temporal scales; the role of
       the land surface in climate variability and climatic extremes; and
       the role of the land surface in climate change and terrestrial
       productivity.
    2. Atmospheric Processes: Developing a better understanding of the
       role of clouds and their influence in the coupling of the
       atmospheric water and energy cycles, and of the vertical transport
       and mixing of water vapor on scales ranging from the local boundary
       layer to regional weather systems.


   USGCRP logo & link to home US Global Change Research Program Office,
   400 Virginia Ave, SW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20024. Tel: +1 202 488
   8630. Fax: +1 202 488 8681. Email: information@usgcrp.gov. Web:
   www.usgcrp.gov. Webmaster: WebMaster@usgcrp.gov
