http://www.nwrc.nbs.gov/hurrican/hurr2001.htm

   USGS visual ID
   Biological Resources homepage link

   spoonbill with wings outstretched

   link to about NWRC
   link to research issues
   link to NWRC library
   link to publications
   link to data and maps
   link to staff profiles
   link to hot topics
   link to search page
   link to site index

Hurricane Research at National Wetlands Research Center

   By Kyle Donaldson, Johnson Controls World Services Inc. at USGS NWRC

   Studying hurricanes - from tracking the recovery process across decades
   past to predicting their future impact on habitats - is critical to the
   USGS National Wetlands Research Center's research mission. Although
   headquartered in Lafayette, Louisiana, NWRC's hurricane researchers
   find themselves at work throughout the world. Presented here are some
   examples of NWRC's wide-ranging hurricane research efforts.

   Peering into the Past
   One technique that NWRC ecologist Tom Doyle uses to peek into
   hurricanes past is dendroecology, the study and interpretation of tree
   rings. Hurricanes leave telltale marks in tree rings that allow the
   trained eye to draw conclusions about storm paths, intensities and
   subsequent regrowth patterns, even if the storm was in the early 20th
   century. More astonishing is Doyle's use of computer modeling to study
   19th century hurricanes. By combining two existing modeling techniques
   - HURASIM and MANGRO - Doyle has reconstructed the impact of hurricanes
   on south Florida's mangrove communities dating back to 1886.
   link to larger Hurricane Andrew image

   Hurricane Andrew
   Hurricane Andrew, the Category 4 storm that pummeled the Louisiana
   mainland with 130-mile per hour winds in 1992, provided Doyle and
   fellow NWRC ecologist Bob Keeland an opportunity to investigate not
   only the storm's structural impact on south-central Louisiana's wetland
   forests, but also the recovery process. Keeland continues to pursue the
   question of survival and recovery after Hurricane Andrew into the new
   century by examining delayed tree mortality, the extent to which trees
   surviving Andrew's initial onslaught succumbed in the following decade.

   Another area of interest for Keeland and his research team is the role
   played by changes in post-Andrew microhabitats, namely the tip-ups and
   accompanying depressions left when an entire tree is blown down and its
   root system exposed. By analyzing soil samples from tip-up mounds and
   long-term observation of tip-up sites themselves, Keeland has learned
   much about how these micro-disruptions affect surrounding plant
   diversity and succession.

   NWRC investigator Elijah Ramsey studies the effect of hurricanes on
   vegetation in a more virtual sense. For example, by using Advanced Very
   High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) images gleaned from orbiting
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) platforms,
   Ramsey compared the known infrared profiles of previous years to the
   months immediately following Hurricane Andrew. His study provided
   fellow researchers with a good idea of post-Andrew changes in
   vegetative biomass and leaf surface area, along with a better
   understanding of the natural recovery process.
   link to map of Chandeleur Islands, LA

   Hurricane Georges
   Six years after Andrew, Louisiana's Gulf of Mexico Coast was dealt
   another blow by Hurricane Georges, a storm that also battered Puerto
   Rico, Haiti, Cuba, Florida, Mississippi and Alabama. Especially hard
   hit were Louisiana's Chandeleur Islands. The barrier island complex is
   New Orlean's first line of defense and acts as a natural deterrent
   against the damaging - and sometimes deadly - storm surges that
   regularly accompany hurricanes.

   A major wintering habitat for a wide range of birds, including
   endangered species like the piping plover and brown pelican, the
   Chandeleurs lost over a quarter of the seagrass beds that are the basis
   of the islands complex food chain. All told, the damage to the islands
   was nearly as extensive as 1969's deadly Category 5 storm, Hurricane
   Camille. The chain's recovery, already thwarted by sea-level rise and
   the lack of sediments necessary to re-establish them, will largely
   depend on the frequency and intensity of future storms.
   Dr. Ed Proffitt examines fallen tree

   Hurricane Mitch
   Currently, most of NWRC's international hurricane research is centered
   upon the mammoth Category 5 storm of 1998 known as Hurricane Mitch.
   Some 20 NWRC researchers are involved in the Hurricane Mitch recovery
   effort, partnered with dozens of additional USGS scientists and
   numerous U.S. and Central American academics. While the storm struck
   much of Central America, Honduras was hit with an unprecedented
   ferocity that laid waste to three of its principal industries:
   shrimping, tourism and agriculture.

   Of particular concern is the Honduran shrimp industry. When the turbid
   and nutrient-rich waters of Honduras flooded agricultural valleys made
   their way to the coastal aquaculture farms and the Gulf of Fonseca,
   these areas experienced sediment deposits and algae blooms that
   eventually led to a declining shrimp population. Those shrimp that did
   survive, however, did so at the expense of severely stressed immune
   systems, and when the deadly white spot virus appeared in the Gulf of
   Fonseca shortly afterwards, it was met with so little resistance that
   the already reduced shrimp population was all but wiped out.

   With the virus now a seemingly permanent feature in the population,
   NWRC biologist Jill Jenkins is assisting Honduran scientists and shrimp
   farmers in their efforts to repopulate their waters. Having isolated
   the enzyme prophenoloxidase as a telltale indicator of the virus,
   Jenkins went on to develop a color reagent field kit so that diseased
   shrimp could be identified without laboratory assistance. And slowly
   but surely, the Honduran shrimp industry is on the rebound.

   Also of concern are the Honduran mangrove forests that, along with
   coral reefs and seagrass beds, make up the barrier reef complexes
   typically found in the Caribbean. On the bay island of Guanaja,
   hundreds of acres of mangroves were completely leveled by Hurricane
   Mitch. Following this large-scale destruction, the mangrove roots that
   once bound the submerged soil decayed, allowing the soil to collapse so
   that normal tidal levels were suddenly too deep to allow for normal
   regrowth. Hence, mangrove recovery now demands labor-intensive hand
   reseeding and careful long-term monitoring.
   Dr. Karen Mckee with mangroves

   Fortunately for the Honduran effort, NWRC plant ecologist Karen McKee
   has been studying the effects of sea-level rise on mangrove habitat
   stability in nearby Belize for some 15 years. By examining core
   samples, McKee is reconstructing the habitats past, learning how
   historical fluctuations in the intertidal levels have affected mangrove
   systems. Her data have provided a wealth of information to those
   shaping the mangrove recovery in Honduras after Hurricane Mitch.

   McKee's work demonstrates why scientific data should not exist in a
   vacuum. Thats why another facet of NWRC's mission is to disseminate its
   hurricane findings to both the public and scientists through reports to
   Congress, scientific journals, technical reports, fact sheets, and the
   NWRC Web site. Sometimes dramatic hurricane findings become part of a
   breaking news story. Then the Center finds the Associated Press, the
   New York Times, and CNN clamoring for video and interviews. (See
   sidebar story on NWRC's Tommy Michot.)

   Whether at home or abroad, at ground level or with the assistance of
   satellite platforms, understanding the impact of hurricanes and the
   recovery processes are among NWRC's most important ongoing research
   programs. And if there's been anything whatsoever learned about
   hurricanes, it is that there will most certainly be a next time.

   (For more information on Hurricane Mitch research, visit
   http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/index.html.)

   Return to What's New at NWRC

   This document prepared by the National Wetlands Research Center
   URL - http://www.nwrc.usgs.gov/hurrican/hurr2001.htm
   Last Modified: 1/07/2002 (CMH)
   Contact: nwrcweb@usgs.gov
