http://www.usfa.fema.gov/safety/

   USFA Seal Blank Image Fire Safety Banner Image


                                Fire Safety
                  Navigation Menu Link Safety & Education
                  Navigation Menu Link Resource Directory
                  Navigation Menu Link Make the Right Call
                  Navigation Menu Link  Media Information
                  Navigation Menu Link    Partnerships
                  Navigation Menu Link   Product Recalls

                                About USFA
                               Fire Academy
                                Data Center
                               Publications
                             Arson Prevention
                             Hotel-Motel List
                                 Memorial
                                    LRC
                                Kids' Page



   Fire Stops with You


   Winter Fire Safety: Tips for the Home
   What's New Line
              Blank Image




     CPSC and Value City, Schottenstein Stores Announce Recall of Gel Candle
     Kits
     In cooperation with the US Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC),
     Value City and Schottenstein stores are voluntarily recalling about
     2,300 children's gel candle kits. When burned, these kits pose fire
     hazards to consumers. Details.




     CPSC Offers Tips to Prevent Home Fires Caused by Space Heaters
     Devices Associated with 21,800 Fires and 300 Deaths Annually
     As fire departments across the country battle winter home fires, the
     U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) reminds consumers to
     demonstrate care when purchasing and using space heaters. CPSC
     estimates that space heaters, including both fixed and portable
     heaters, are associated with about 21,800 residential fires every year.




     Living with Fire: A Program for Campus and Student Fire Safety
     The Living with Fire program provides campus fire safety professionals
     with resources to assist in developing college and university fire
     safety programs.




     Prevent Fire. Save Lives.
     This public education campaign kit is designed to aid you and your
     organization in educating seniors about fire safety and to spread the
     word about this important campaign to your local media.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: January 24, 2002

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
