http://www.nwr.noaa.gov/1press/Fire_esa_JKS.pdf

   Wildfires and the Endangered Species Act Section 7 of the Endangered
   Species Act (ESA) requires all federal agencies to consult with
   National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) on any action they fund,
   authorize, or carry out that may affect ESA listed salmon or steelhead
   or their critical habitat. Consultation normally must be completed
   before any action can proceed, but there are exceptions for
   emergencies, such as wildfires. Wildland fires are an emergency under
   the Endangered Species Act and are not subject to the usual "take"
   prohibitions. Human safety always comes first in emergencies. We take
   advantage of flexibilities in the ESA to ensure that response
   activities are never delayed or obstructed because of listed fish. NMFS
   and the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) have developed joint
   procedures for dealing with ESA issues in emergencies. These procedures
   have been communicated to other federal agencies, such as the U.S.
   Forest Service (USFS) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which are
   involved with emergency situations such as wildfires. The process as
   described in a joint NMFS/USFWS Consultation Handbook is: * Agency
   supervisors dealing with an emergency that may affect listed fish or
   critical habitat notify NMFS. * NMFS staff make recommendations to
   agency supervisors on how to minimize effects of the emergency
   responses. * As soon as possible after the emergency is under control,
   agency supervisors initiate formal ESA consultation with NMFS. NMFS
   also is working closely with USFS and BLM to expedite consultations on
   wildland fire management actions taken under the National Fire Plan.
   The Fire Plan is designed to reduce the risk of wildfires to
   communities and restore burned areas. NMFS has hired and trained 36
   additional salmon habitat biologists and opened four new field offices
   close to USFS and BLM project sites to allow NMFS to be more responsive
   to consultation needs for the National Fire Plan. Our new biologists
   are working out of Salmon and Grangeville, Idaho; Ellensburg, Wash.;
   and La Grande, Ore. Our new staff and locations will help NMFS develop
   partnerships not just with fellow federal agencies, but with local
   communities as well, so we can integrate fire activities with salmon
   protection and the Endangered Species Act. We're dedicated to helping
   local communities avoid wildfire risks while improving ecosystem
   health.
