http://www6.etl.noaa.gov/projects/grids.html

   GRIDS

   Contact: Roger F. Reinking

   Icing is a weather hazard that occasionally causes aviation disasters,
   especially in winter. In- flight icing forms on wings and other exposed
   surfaces as an aircraft flies though clouds that contain supercooled
   liquid water droplets. Larger, drizzle-size drops are particularly
   hazardous, but ice crystals and snowflakes are not an icing threat. ETL
   is designing a new ground-based cloud radar and radiometer system to
   monitor clouds in the vicinity of airports and provide automated
   warnings of icing conditions aloft. The preliminary name of this
   instrument is the Ground-based Remote Icing Detection System (GRIDS).

   ETL has developed radar polarization techniques to recognize regions of
   cloud that are predominantly composed of water droplets (the
   potentially hazardous regions) and distinguish them from cloud regions
   that are predominantly ice crystals. These identifying radar
   polarization "signatures" rely on the information about particle shape
   that is contained in the depolarization ratio measured by the radar.
   Observed depolarization ratios are matched to the theoretical values
   expected from various cloud particle types to make the identification.
   Based on several years of research (e.g., WISP and MWISP), signatures
   of numerous crystal types and droplets have been verified by in-situ
   cloud sampling, as shown in the first figure below.

   Building on the lessons of these earlier experiments, GRIDS will use
   the polarization techniques to identify the presence of water drops and
   crystals. Its core will be an ultra-high sensitivity,
   dual-polarization, millimeter-wave radar capable of detecting extremely
   weak cloud echoes. A microwave radiometer will quantify the amount of
   liquid water present aloft and assist with identifications in regions
   of ice and liquid mixtures. Temperature profile information will be
   ingested from recent nearby radiosondes or from numerical weather
   models. Combining these data, the unattended GRIDS will provide
   automated, simple but informative warning displays for air traffic
   controllers. An artist's depiction of the system is shown in the second
   figure below. Development of the first research/prototype unit is
   sponsored by the FAA. A future initiative to build and test several
   units is also under consideration by the National Weather Service.

   See three-page article for further details.

   You may also view the GRIDS overview poster (3.6 Mbyte PowerPoint
   file).

   [grids.graph.gif]

   [grids.artist.gif]
