http://www.nci.nih.gov/help/

   text only skip navigation
   National Cancer Institute Cancer.gov
                                        dictionary
                                        sitemap
                                        search

   home about NCI cancer information clinical trials statistics research
                  programs research funding


      Help Using Cancer.gov

      Specific Content Areas
      Search
      Advanced Search
      If you live outside the U.S.
      If you have a technical question
      Other Sources of NCI Information



   return to top

   Specific Content Areas

      The main content categories on Cancer.gov can be found by clicking on
      any one of the tabs along the top of each page of the site:
        * Cancer Information
        * Clinical Trials
        * Statistics
        * Research Programs
        * Research Funding



   return to top

   Search

      There are three ways to access the search function.
        * In the sidebar at the right of Cancer.gov pages is a Search box.
          Type a word or phrase in the box and click "search."
        * Clicking on Advanced within the Search box takes you to the
          Advanced Search page.
        * You also can get to Advanced Search by clicking on the "search"
          option under "dictionary" and "site map" in the top right of each
          Cancer.gov page or at the foot of each page.

      The search engine will look through an index of content on Cancer.gov
      and other NCI Web sites. In many cases, you will see a list of "Best
      Bets" above the regular search results. Best Bets offer links to NCI
      content that Cancer.gov staff has determined may be most relevant to a
      search query.



   return to top

   Advanced Search

      There are four ways to search from this page.
        * Click on "Advanced Search" (the default option)
          Type a word or phrase in the Search box and click "search" to
          search all of the NCI. To narrow your search, enter the word or
          phrase, then "check" one or more NCI division(s) before clicking on
          "search."
        * Click on "Clinical Trials"
          Use this form to search NCI’s comprehensive PDQ® database of cancer
          clinical trials. Selection boxes help limit your search: for
          example, to a specific type and stage of cancer, type of clinical
          trial, and/or geographic location. Clinical trial search results
          can be viewed in either health professional (advanced) or patient
          (basic) versions.
          A description of how best to search PDQ is available in the PDQ
          Clinical Trials Database User’s Guide. A link to this guide appears
          at the top of the Clinical Trials Search page.
        * Click on "Cancer Literature"
          Use this form to search CANCERLIT®, a database of more than 1.5
          million citations and abstracts from over 4,000 cancer literature
          sources, including biomedical journals, proceedings, books,
          reports, and doctoral theses.
          Type in one or more search terms in the boxes provided. Use
          selection boxes to limit your search, for example, by author,
          publication type, and/or language. Or click on "CANCERLIT Topic
          Searches" to view prepared searches on more than 90 topics.
        * Click on "Genetics Services"
          Use this form to search the Cancer Genetics Services Directory, a
          listing of individuals who provide services related to cancer
          genetics. You can limit your search by choosing a specific cancer
          type, cancer family syndrome, and/or geographic location.



   return to top

   If you live outside the U.S.

        * International Union Against Cancer (UICC)
        * International Cancer Information Services



   return to top

   If you have a technical question

        * Your answer may be contained in Frequently Asked Questions
        * Contact the Cancer.gov Webmaster



   return to top

   Other sources of NCI information

        * Click on LiveHelp, found on the search pages and on the sidebar of
          many Cancer.gov pages. This NCI service provides live, online
          assistance (text chat) Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. ET.
        * Call NCI's Cancer Information Service (CIS) to speak with a trained
          information specialist. In the U.S. and its territories, call toll
          free 1-800-4-CANCER (1-800-422-6237), Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. -
          4:30 p.m. local time. Deaf and hard-of-hearing callers with TTY
          equipment, call 1-800-332-8615.
        * It's possible to send a question or comment to Cancer.gov staff;
          see the Contact link at the foot of every page on the site.
        * Use CancerFax® to get NCI cancer information by fax. To obtain a
          contents list, dial 1-800-624-2511 or 301-402-5874 from your
          touch-tone phone or fax machine handset and follow the recorded
          instructions.
        * Write to the National Cancer Institute at:
          NCI Public Inquiries Office
          Building 31, Room 10A03
          31 Center Drive, MSC 2580
          Bethesda, MD 20892-2580



   return to top




   ______________

   Advanced submit search

   Andrew von Eschenbach Named Director of the NCI
   NCI Launches Redesigned, Cancer Resource Web Site
   Past Highlights
   NewsCenter

   Help

   Cancer.gov Help
   FAQs
   Index of NCI Sites

                            Español   Text Only


   HOME SEARCH SITE MAP CONTACT HELP ACCESSIBILITY PRIVACY POLICY National
   Institutes of Health Department of Health and Human Services
   FirstGov.gov
