http://www.iceboom.nypa.gov/iceimpac.htm

   [nypahead.gif]


   [back.gif]

   About the Ice Boom:

   Introduction

   Purpose

   Description

   Location

   History

   Impacts

   Current Images

   Current time-lapse videos

   Listing of Recent Images
   Ice Boom - Impacts

   Hydroelectric generation at the Power Authority’s Niagara Power Project
   and Ontario Power Generation, Inc.’s Sir Adam Beck Generating Stations
   has improved an estimated 9 percent during the months of January and
   February as a result of the Lake Erie-Niagara River Ice Boom. Based on
   average river flows, this represents about 390 million kilowatt-hours
   each year, or the electricity needed to serve a city the size of
   Niagara Falls, Ont.

   Studies have also been conducted to determine the impact of the ice
   boom on local weather conditions. Lake Erie has a surface area of about
   10,000 square miles and is often completely covered with ice during the
   winter. History shows that without an ice boom, the Niagara River can
   only pass about 200 square miles of ice from the lake in an average
   spring. Therefore, about 98 percent of Lake Erie’s ice cover must melt
   in the lake. There is no proof that the ice boom prolongs the ice
   season in Western New York.

   Anyone with questions about the ice boom or its operation, or
   information for the International Joint Commission (IJC) to consider,
   can make a presentation at a public meeting held annually by the
   International Niagara Board of Control, a subsidiary of the IJC. The
   dates and locations of these meetings are announced in local
   newspapers; notices are mailed directly to federal, state, provincial
   and local government representatives, as well as citizens and groups
   who have indicated interest in the ice boom.

   You may also contact:

   Chair, United States Section
   International Niagara Board of Control
   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
   Great Lakes and Ohio River Division
   P. O. Box 1159
   Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-1159

   or

   Chair, Canadian Section
   International Niagara Board of Control
   Environment Canada
   Water Issues Division
   867 Lakeshore Road
   Burlington, Ontario
   L7R4A6

   | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |
