http://www.rightwhale.noaa.gov/right_whale/about_whale.html

   On the trail of the Right Whale
   Mission log
   About the trip
   About the people
   About the whale
   Aerial Surveys

   About the Whale
   North Atlantic right whale Several thousand right whales (Eubalaena
   glacialis)once lived in the North Atlantic Ocean. But years of
   commercial hunting at the turn of the century severely depleted the
   stocks. Whalers considered the animals the rightwhale to hunt because
   they were slow moving, migrated close to shore, and stayed afloat after
   being killed. Today, despite more than sixty years of protection, the
   North Atlantic right whale has not recovered. Scientists suspect that
   recovery has failed for a variety of factors, including the effects of
   human activity. There are only about 300 right whales left in the North
   Atlantic, and ship strikes account for approximately 50 percent of
   their known deaths.

   The right whale is a robust, medium-size baleen whale. Adults are
   usually 45 to 55 feet long. Distinctive features are a black body with
   no dorsal fin and a large head with a narrow upper jaw and a strongly
   bowed lower jaw. Age at sexual maturity is five to nine years, with
   females giving birth to a calf every three to five years. Calving
   occurs during the winter months along the southeast coast of the U.S.
   Calves nurse for at least nine months.

   Today, more than a half century after it was first given protection,
   the North Atlantic right whale remains one of the most endangered
   whales in the world. However, the small population has allowed
   researchers to individually identify most whales and keep a catalog of
   photographs and sighting histories at the New England Aquarium. NOAA
   and aquarium researchers will use the right whale catalog to identify
   whales in the study.

   Critical Habitats

   Calving right whales usually winter in the waters between Savannah,
   Georgia, and West Palm Beach, Florida, with an area of high density
   mainly between Brunswick, Georgia, and St. Augustine, Florida.
   Unfortunately for the whales, many commercial and military vessels use
   this area; three major ship channels, serving three commercial ports
   and two military bases, transect the high-density calving grounds. The
   traffic in this critical habitat has increased substantially over the
   past forty years.
   (top)
