http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/entrances.html

                                                                Home Index

                            Entrances to Coe Park

                               [greenline.gif]


   (backpacking and day-use fees)
   Headquarters Entrance    (directions and map)
     If youve never been to Henry W. Coe State Park before, your first
   visit should be to the Visitor Center at the headquarters entrance.
   Thats where you can get the information youll need to plan safe,
   enjoyable outings in the park.  You can enter Coe Park at the
   headquarters entrance every day of the year, 24 hours a day.  It's the
   only entrance to the park that has visitor facilities and a drive-in
   campground, and it's the only entrance where you can bring a dog into
   the park, though dogs must be kept on a leash at all times and they're
   not allowed on the hiking roads and trails (except for the half-mile
   trail between the entrance parking lot and the Visitor Center).
   Drinking water is available at the headquarters entrance.
   Hunting Hollow and Coyote Creek Entrances    (directions and map)
     The Hunting Hollow and Coyote Creek entrances are located on the
   south side of the park.  There are no car camping sites at the southern
   entrances, but you can enter for the day or backpack into the park from
   both entrances.  Dogs are not allowed in the park at either entrance.
   No drinking water is available at the Hunting Hollow and Coyote Creek
   entrances so be sure to bring what you'll need.
     Hunting Hollow Entrance
       The Hunting Hollow gate and parking area is open 24 hours a day,
   year round.  You can arrive at the entrance and park any time of day or
   night.  Park staff are available from mid March through June on
   Saturdays and Sundays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. to get you registered
   and help you plan your outing.  When the entrance is not staffed,
   you'll be able to self-register for day use or backpacking.  Be sure to
   take a park map with you when you head into the backcountry.   You'll
   find free handout maps at the bulletin board in the parking area.  You
   can also study a large park map stapled to the bulletin boards.  Large
   maps are available for purchase on weekends when the parking area is
   staffed (in March through June).
     Coyote Creek Entrance
       Day Use.  A parking area is not currently available at the Coyote
   Creek entrance.  If you leave a vehicle at the entrance, you'll have to
   park it along the road outside the gate.  From mid March through June,
   on Saturdays and Sundays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., you can stop in
   first at Hunting Hollow if you want to pick up a map or if you'd like
   to talk to park staff about your plans.  You won't be charged any fees
   if you park outside the park.

   Backpacking.  If you want to backpack into the park from the Coyote
   Creek entrance, you must register and pay your park fees at Hunting
   Hollow before you set out.  From mid March through June, on Saturdays
   and Sundays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., park staff will be on hand at
   Hunting Hollow to register you and help you with your plans.  When
   Hunting Hollow is not staffed, you can self-register there.  We advise
   backpackers not to leave their vehicles overnight along the road
   outside the Coyote Creek gate because of vandalism problems in the
   area.  Instead, you could have someone drop you off, or you could drop
   off your pack somewhere inside the Coyote Creek gate, drive back to
   Hunting Hollow, leave your vehicle in the parking area, and hike, bike,
   or ride your horse 1.8 miles back to the Coyote Creek entrance.

   Future Plans for the Entrance.  At some point, we plan to open the
   Coyote Creek Gate 24 hours a day, year-round, with parking areas and
   self-registration provided inside the gate.

                               [greenline.gif]
                      Return  to the Coe Park home page
