http://www.kids.gov/k_funstuff.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
    Image of boy on skateboard Fun Stuff Are you stuck inside for a rainy
    day? These links will keep you busy for hours! There are interactive
     games, news just for kids, music and much more. Who knows - you may
                         even learn a thing or two.
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Afterschool.gov Kid's Page - Your connection to federal resources
        that support children and youth during out-of-school hours.
   Item Energy Quest - Megawatts of info and fun await! Read a story, try
   a science project, learn about renewable resources, play with puzzles,
       meet super scientists, and lots more on this neat site from the
                       California Energy Commission.
   Item Games and Activities - Fun games and activities to help you learn.
   Item Money Central Station - Learn how and where money is made and play
                        a number of different games.
      Item NCES Students' Classroom - As part of the U.S. Department of
   Education, the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) has made
        a page for students that includes CRUNCH, an online 'zine, a
         multi-media playhouse, and a "Find Your Library" section.
       Item NGA Kids - Adventures with Art - Choose from a variety of
     activities or projects, enjoy an animated musical adventure, take a
                tour through the sculpture garden, and more.
     Item Peace Corps Kids World - Explore the globe and learn about the
                       activities of the Peace Corps.
     Item U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service - Especially for Kids! - Learn
    about endangered species, national wildlife refuges, migratory birds,
    fisheries resources , the value of wetlands, and how kids, like you,
                                 can help.
      Item US Patent and Trademark Office Kids Page - What are patents,
    trademarks and copyrights you ask? Here you will find the answers to
     the most frequently asked questions about "intellectual property".

                             Organization Sites
                 (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov
     Item Art Safari - Explore animals and art in the collection of The
      Museum of Modern Art.. Create your own artworks of animals on the
      computer, or carry out projects by painting, drawing, or making a
                                 sculpture.
    Item Bubblesphere - You can learn the history of bubbles, how to make
              the best bubble solution, and play bubble games!
   Item Clifford the Big Red Dog - Here's the site for everyone's favorite
    big red dog! You can read along with Emily Elizabeth, visit T-Bone's
          Town, get to know the Islanders, or play with Clifford!
      Item Figure This! - Have you been alive for one million minutes?
   Investigate math challenges like this which include hints, answers, and
        ways to test them out. Designed for kids and their families.
      Item Hands On Children's Museum - An interactive science, art and
   adventure museum for children ages 10 and under. Meet Casbah the camel,
                   visit the pet parade and solve a maze.
   Item Incredible Art Department - tons of great art information! Take a
          peek in the Art Room and visit the Art Site of the Week.
    Item Jazz Kids - Check out this fun newspaper for kids featuring news
            and reviews, kids' writing, games, trivia, and more!
    Item Kid Outdoors - Check out this e-zine that has colorful articles
    with information about where to go, what to do and bring, and when to
   visit the outdoors! You can also learn safety tips or try fun puzzles.
   Item MOWA Kids - Learn about art, check out the galleries and have fun
                playing art games in the Museum of Web Art.
    Item Passport Kids - Online club that connects kids ages 6-12 around
   the globe. This site was developed by Sesame Workshop whose mission is
     creating media to delight and educate children and their families.
    Passport Kids provides a safe environment where children can express
   their opinions and compare their experiences as they explore the world.
      Item Playmusic - A cool site for kids from the American Symphony
    Orchestra League. Learn all about classical music and the instruments
                               that make it.
        Item Scholastic - This site has a number of games, books, fun
   activities, lesson plans and classroom activities, resources and more.
     Item Sled Dogs: An Alaskan Epic - Mush! It's a dog's life and PBS'
   Nature wants to show you what it's like. Find out what it takes to pull
    those sleds across frozen terrain and read the story of Balto, a very
    brave Husky. You can even try your hand at some virtual dogsledding.
    Item Zoboomafoo - Find out about this show for kids on PBS! This fun
    site has cool info on the characters, facts about animals, games, and
                              coloring pages.

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item A Game a Day - Find and play a new game on the calendar each day
    or check out games from days past. Includes word searches, crossword
                         puzzles, trivia, and more.
   Item AAA Math - Choose your grade level and check out the basic skills,
       activities, and challenge games for K-8. Math concepts are also
                            explained in detail.
   Item Air Force Crossroads for Teens and Youth - This Air Force website
   has tons to offer both kids and teenagers alike. From sports to arts to
   video games, you will find hours worth of information and entertainment
                  that will keep you coming back for more.
      Item Cartoon Network - Here at the Cartoon Network - you can play
    games, watch animated short movies and see the schedule of shows. All
                       with your favorite characters!
     Item Comics.com - Read your favorite print comic strips on the web!
    Meet the characters and learn about the artists for Snoopy, Dilbert,
      Heathcliff, and many more. Includes editorial cartoons as well.
    Item Coolmath - Explore this amusement park of mathematics. Have fun
   with interactive activities and games for kids like Lemonade Stand and
       Arithmattack! There's even stuff for parents and teachers too.
     Item Cooltoons - Check out this cool site from the animation studio
    behind Rugrats. Meet the characters, see the complete episode guide,
                 get Rugrats coloring pages, and much more.
      Item CreatAbiliToys - See an amazing collection of toys based on
      company trademarks, items which represent a company or product.
   Item DiscoveryKids.com - has put together a whole site about adventure
     and the adventures we think you should try. Ever wanted to climb a
     climbing wall? Ride a camel? Learn to take your own pictures? Well,
                      here is the place to learn how.
   Item Draw a NIMAL - Have fun with computer-generated animal art made up
           of squares, or create a mi-Nimal a-Nimal of your own!
       Item Education Place - Kids Place - Free games, activities, and
     resources for students studying math, reading, social studies, and
                                  science.
    Item GameGoo - These games for grades K-2 are sticky! Pick your gooey
   guide and learn things that will stick with you while playing animated
       games like Squanky the Tooth Taker, Letter Bugs, and Paw Park.
      Item Harry Potter Pronunciation Guide - Just how do you pronounce
   Hermione, anyway? What about Voldemort? This handy-dandy guide lets you
    hear how to pronounce many of the names from the Harry Potter books.
     Item Interactive Tangrams - Test your puzzle skills and try to fit
       seven geometrical pieces into the shapes on the page. It can be
                          trickier than it looks!
   Item Jigzone - This site is heaven for jigsaw puzzle fans! Choose your
     level of difficulty for your online puzzle, from 6 pieces to 247.
     Item Kid Pix - Express your creativity using these cool online art
       tools. Get some bright ideas and see the picture of the week.
     Item Kids Courier - Check out this fun newspaper for kids featuring
         news and reviews, kids' writing, games, trivia, and more!
   Item Kids Post - Read articles about current events and entertainment,
      get Brain Food for homework help, and have fun with games, polls,
           online discussions, and more from The Washington Post.
      Item MaMaMedia.com - At MaMaMedia.com, kids discover by doing and
        create while clicking. Our engaging activities help them gain
   technological fluency and expand their minds through playful learning.
   Item Nick.com - Nickelodeon has a fun site that includes games, music,
                         a web lab, and your world.
     Item Pud's Clubhouse - Pop into the official Dubble Bubble site and
    take a factory tour, learn gum facts and history, or try out some fun
                          games and cool cartoons.
      Item Quia Mathematics - Here is a fun Website that can help K-12
        students practice math. There are tons of activities, such as
     multiplication, decimals, fractions, and trigonometry; you learn by
    using virtual flash cards (Java optional), word searches, games, and
                               mini quizzes.
   Item World Flag Database - This sites show flags from countries around
      the world. Also includes basic facts on each country such as its
        population, capital city, languages, currency and religions.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
