http://web99.arc.nasa.gov/news.htm

   Last Updated: Dec. 27, 2001

                                                Home | Site Map | Feedback

   [index2_04.jpg]
   Space Science Division Banner
   Selected Research Personnel Publications Organization Chart

                                 What's New

   What's New (last updated 1/4/02)
   Kepler Image
   Kepler Mission Selected for Discovery Program
   NASA has selected the Kepler Mission, a project based at Ames Research
   Center, Moffett Field, Calif., as one of the next two new NASA
   Discovery missions. Scheduled for launch in 2006, the Kepler Mission
   will use a unique spaceborne telescope specifically designed to search
   for Earth-like planets around stars beyond our solar system. "The
   Kepler Mission will, for the first time, enable humans to search our
   galaxy for Earth-size or even smaller planets," said principal
   investigator William Borucki of the Planetary Systems Branch of the
   Space Science Division. "With this cutting-edge capability, Kepler may
   help us answer one of the most enduring questions humans have asked
   throughout history: are there others like us in the universe?" Details
   about the Kepler Mission are available at:
   http://www.kepler.arc.nasa.gov
   More information about the Discovery Program is available at:
   http://discovery.nasa.gov/
   Linda Jahnke
   Linda Jahnke receives NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal.
   Linda Jahnke, a microbiologist in the Exobiology Branch, was presented
   with the NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal. The
   presentation took place at Ames' annual NASA Honor Awards Ceremony on
   July 26, 2001. Linda was honored for her work on cyanobacteria in the
   Biomarker Lab of the Exobiology Branch. More Information
   Saturn rings
   Composite images of Saturn's rings exposes puzzling color variations.
   Images of Saturn's rings, taken by Voyager 2 in 1981 and by NASA's
   Hubble Space Telescope between 1996 and 2000, indicate that there are
   variations of color within the rings. Images from Hubble captured the
   rings while Saturn was tilted on its axis, exposing the fully lit rings
   from underneath. Jeff Cuzzi, a member of the Hubble team and a research
   scientist in the Planetary Systems Branch, is leading efforts to
   understand the composition of the rings. "The color of the ring
   material can help tell us what the rings are made of and will help
   decipher their origin," said Dr. Cuzzi. "It already appears that their
   color is sufficiently different from that of Saturn's icy moons to
   imply a different region of origin." Cuzzi's collaborators include Dr.
   R. French of Wellesley College, Dr. L. Dones of Southwest Research
   Institute, Dr. Mark Showalter of Stanford University and Dr. Paul
   Estrada of Cornell University. More Information
   Pascal Image
   The Pascal Mars Climate Network Mission was selected for further study
   in NASA's newly formed Mars Scout Program.
   Dr. Robert Haberle, a Mars atmosphere interdisciplinary scientist of
   the Planetary Systems Branch, is the Principle Investigator. The
   mission was chosen as one of the ten most promising concepts of the 43
   proposed to NASA for possible launch to Mars in 2007. Dr. Haberle will
   be awarded $150,000 to conduct a 6 month study to improve the mission
   concept. Pascal would establish a network of 24 globally-distributed
   miniature landers on Mars that would monitor the climate of Mars hourly
   for 10 Mars years. Such a mission will characterize the long-term,
   global climate of another planet for the first time. By sending Pascal
   to Mars, the group seeks to determine what the similarities and
   differences between planetary atmospheres can tell us about the Earth's
   climate and the physical theory that governs any planet's atmosphere.
   More Information
   Dale Cruikshank
   Dale Cruikshank to chair a panel for Space Studies Board.
   Dr. Dale Cruikshank, an astronomer and research scientist in the
   Astrophysics Branch, has been asked by the Space Studies Board to
   participate in a study on solar system exploration. The study, entitled
   "A New Science Strategy for Solar System Exploration", establishes
   science requirements and priorities and also provides a strategic
   "roadmap" for the implementation phase. Dr. Cruikshank will chair a
   panel called Primitive Bodies (Asteroids, Comets, Pluto/KBO, Small Icy
   Satellites) that will produce a report to appear as a chapter in the
   final document. This panel will meet three times in the next twelve
   months.
   CSF Image
   Center for Star Formation Studies hosted workshop at UC Santa Cruz.
   The Center for Star Formation Studies hosted a weeklong workshop at UC
   Santa Cruz from July 14-19, 2001 entitled "Star Formation in the
   Galactic Context". This was an international meeting involving 125
   participants. The director for The Center for Star Formation Studies is
   Planetary Systems Branch senior research scientist Dr. David
   Hollenbach. Full Details
   Max Bernstein
   Max Bernstein organized symposium on extraterrestrial organic
   chemistry.
   In April 2001, Dr. Bernstein, an astrochemist in the Astrophysics
   Branch, organized a one day symposium on extraterrestrial organic
   chemistry at the 221st American Chemical Society Meeting in San Diego.
   Featured speakers included Ames scientists Dr. Jean Chiar and Dr.
   George Cooper. This symposium was featured in Science News and also
   Chemical and Engineering News. Abstracts can be viewed here.


                                  Branches


   [bullet.gif] Kepler Mission selected by NASA
   [bullet.gif] L. Jahnke receives NASA Medal.
   [bullet.gif] Saturn's colorful rings.
   [bullet.gif] Pascal Mission selected for further study.
   [bullet.gif] D. Cruikshank to chair panel.
   [bullet.gif] CSFS Workshop at UC Santa Cruz.
   [bullet.gif] M. Bernstein organizes symposium.
   Astrophysics
   Planetary Systems
   Exobiology
   Astrobiology Technology

                                   Notices

                                Related Links

   Space Science Seminars and Colloquia
   Annual Report
   Office of Space Science
   Ames Research Center
   Code S Directorate
   NASA Astrobiology Institute
   NASA Center for Computational Astrobiology
   Center For Mars Exploration
   SETI Institute
