http://ishi.lanl.gov/diversity/diversity.htm

                  Diversity --- just a controversial word?

             Or the key to understanding how many systems work?



         Does diversity lead to better or worse system performance?



           When does diversity lead to competition or cooperation?



     In organizations, is diversity a moral imperative or good business?


     __________________________________________________________________

   Science of Diversity intro
   Documents [newflash.gif]
   Other Links [newflash.gif]
   Revision history
   Glossary


                     Diversity: The key to understanding

                       innovative and adaptive systems



             How Diversity can lead to better system performance

                 in Organizations, Economies and Ecosystems



   For an introduction to social aspects of diversity, see the Science of
                               Diversity page



               Excerpts from (available on the Document page):

                       The Science of Social Diversity

       The Importance of Diversity: Reconciling natural selection and
                          non-competitive processes

       Collective Problem Solving: Functionality beyond the Individual

                                     and

      Developmental Insights into Evolving Systems: Roles of Diversity,

                 Non-Selection, Self-Organization, Symbiosis





An Introduction:

   Research on how loosely interacting groups can solve hard problems
   better than experts led to a general understanding of the above
   questions in a variety of systems: ecosystems, social groups, large
   organizations, free market economies, the stock market, our society -
   any system where there are individuals or groups make decisions or
   solve problems with minimal centralized control or planning.

   In fact, the importance of self-organization and diversity is highly
   underestimated, particularly in systems that are thought to be
   centralized.

   The core theme is that "Loosely cooperative relationships which form by
   chance " - by being at the right place at the right time with the right
   capability/information - can benefit one or both of the participants,
   but not at either's expense. These "random" interactions can solve
   problems beyond the awareness of the individuals involved - more
   difficult problems than can often be solved by experts. Human behavior
   has evolved to create these interactions - but many aspects of our
   current life, society, organizational structure inhibit this natural
   process. By better understanding these processes, we will all benefit
   and solve problems that are a challenge to our centralized
   organizations.


   Summary of the viewpoint:

   The role and function of diversity depends on the stage of development
   (or maturation) of an organization (or a system in general).

   In our competitive view of the world, we often view organizations that
   are loosely cooperative as being competitive or cooperative. But
   excessive competition and cooperation are the bookends to the sweat
   spot of an innovative organization. Three stages of development are
   defined:
     * Immature or Formative stage; competitive and selective, with
       increasing diversity, with both locally and globally chaotic
       changes. Robustness occurs through self-regulation.
     * Mature or Co-Operational stage; multiply interconnected, diverse
       and flexible. This stage is dominated by loosely cooperative
       relationships. They represent the "sweet spot" of systems: they
       have all the desirable properties of robustness, efficiency and
       high performance. Higher performance better than the individual or
       expert happens by the random interactions of many individuals with
       "pieces" of the solution.
     * Senescent (old) or Condensed stage; mature systems become Senescent
       as flexible interactions become condensed to rigid cooperative
       interactions, these only form in stable environments. If the
       external environment changes too abruptly, the Senescent systems
       will return to an Immature or Mature stage.
       In Immature systems in rapid transition, competition between
       diverse groups occurs, leading to a reduction in diversity through
       selection "by survival of the fittest." Through the processes of
       selection, these system as a whole perform better, because the
       individuals that make up the system are selected to perform better.
       Mature systems, in direct contrast, achieve a higher systemwide
       performance from chaotic, loosely cooperative interactions between
       diverse populations, without the need for selection. If selection
       does occur, it only retains the status quo.
       In a stable environment, loosely cooperative relationships can
       become exclusive (as in symbiosis). These exclusive interactions
       may be more efficient and have higher performance, but they are at
       the expense of flexibility. This is the mechanism for the
       transition to a Senescent stage. Within this understanding,
       formalized cooperation is a form of exclusion, disallowing other
       relationships to form. Despite all the current emphasis on
       cooperation, it is a form of selection and exclusion and not
       advantageous to solving hard problems or to robustness.
       If the rigid interactions are mutually beneficial to all, then
       these structures may be incorporated system wide (for example, the
       common language of DNA in life). Future variation then occurs on
       top of these universal structures. This process is the origin of
       infrastructure and hierarchical systems.

   While it is common thinking that most ecosystems and social systems are
   inherently competitive and selective, our view is that higher system
   functionality, incorrectly attributed to competition, is actually due
   to self-organizing, non-competitive processes (as in next item).

   In Mature systems, both diverse individuals and the system as a whole
   mutually benefit from the advantages of self-organizing,
   non-competitive processes - rather than competitive and selective
   processes.

     Self-organizing, non-competitive processes are where a diversity of
     individuals or entities solve parts of a difficult problem in a
     common world. Their interactions (which may be chaotic and
     unintentional) combine such that the system as a whole is performs
     better and is more robust, than what would be predicted by looking
     at the performance of the individuals in the system. The higher
     performance and robustness is an emergent property of the system,
     i.e., not directly attributable to or observable in the individuals.


   The above conclusions can be applied to most decentralized,
   self-organizing systems found in economies, organizations, ecosystems
   and social systems. One focus of this research on diversity is to show
   that the processes are a natural aspect of these systems and, whether
   knowingly or not, are essential to the performance of the system.

   In evolving systems, it is argued that attributes of the individuals
   are selected to enhance these self-organizing processes. One example is
   the evolution of social attributes in human and animal systems: social
   processes enhance the self-organizing nature of our human systems,
   society or organizations. Once these attributes are part of the
   individuals, there is no need for further selective development of the
   individual: The higher performance needed for future challenges come
   from self-organizing non-competitive processes.

   Because a common understanding of these self-organizing processes is
   argued for a variety of systems, a question arises if there are any
   differences in these processes or additional processes found in some
   and not in others?

     One aspect that social systems have that is absent in other systems
     is the ability to have extensive systemwide reinforcement of ideas
     (paths or dynamics, in general). This effect is a consequence of
     human mass-communication, and might be viewed as an extreme process
     to senescence. This coherence enables social and economics systems
     to "self-resonate" to a degree that can repress diversity and make
     the overall system less robust. The effect of extreme nationalism on
     the policies and social diversity of a country is a prime example.
     This effect can also occur as a positive feedback mechanism which
     can cause a larger impact of a change than would otherwise occur.
     Many stock market bubbles and bursts are argued to occur by this
     process.

   Examples in nature, organizations and economies


        What is a familiar example of loosely cooperative relationships
                within a self-organizing non-competitive process? Social
                insects have exploited this process, to the degree that
                the organism is really the collective, rather than the
                individuals. Interactions between individuals are highly
                chaotic (sensitive to small changes), yet, these social
                insects exhibit remarkable global behavior (hive
                construction, prediction, memory) that cannot be simply
                explained by looking at just the individuals. And this is
                all accomplished without explicit selection from the
                individuals that make up the whole.


        A mature ecosystem is a good example of how many individuals in
                many species, by just living to fulfill their own needs,
                can result in a stable system that benefits all. While
                competition certainly occurs in ecosystems, the global
                performance (robustness or efficiency) is also due to the
                non-competitive interactions of a diverse community.

                Similarly, the unappreciated aspects of social networks in
                organizations provide problem solving capability and
                contingencies that directly come from diverse individuals.
                An obvious realization of this is that most organizations
                would quickly fail if all employees thought alike or had
                little social interactions (in contrast to business-only
                interactions).

                Distributed economies also have self-regulation (the
                "invisible hand" of Adam Smith) and high performance, not
                because of the competitive nature of the individuals or
                even because of direct cooperation, but because of the
                interdependency of the diverse elements in an economy. By
                counterexample, it is easy to see that an economy or
                market that is absent of diversity is quite fragile (only
                one path for material/energy/monetary flow) and less
                efficient (serial instead of parallel performance).


        The challenge in understanding the self-organizing processes in
                these systems is not only our past inability to understand
                alternative processes, but because of the reductionist
                approach: our assumption that by understanding the parts
                in detail, we understand the whole.



          The broad conclusions are:

     * The role of diversity has traditionally been misunderstood in
       mature systems - whether social, economic or biological.
     * There is confusion and undo emphasis on the competitive (and
       cooperative) aspects of diversity, often ignoring or not
       appreciating the advantages of diversity in a non-competitive,
       non-cooperative environment.
     * Once these non-competitive processes are appreciated and
       understood, we can better enable these processes in our
       organizations, knowledge information systems, and economic
       structures.

   Further details and discussion are given below.


     __________________________________________________________________

                      Organizations and Social Systems

                       The Science of Social Diversity

                     by N.L. Johnson and V.A. Longmire.

   Published in Theoretical Division -- Self-Assessment, Special Feature,

                   May 1999 (LA-UR-99-336) PDF file (49K)

   Diversity in the workplace, organization, even nation, has recently
   become a much touted goal. Our understanding has evolved to recognize
   that diversity includes more than ethnic variety, but also cultural and
   educational variety, in fact, any aspect of an individual that leads to
   a variety of approaches to problems, even personality. Yet, the
   scientific basis behind the role of diversity in social systems is
   largely unknown. Research at Los Alamos is providing support for our
   intuitive understanding of the importance of diversity in social
   systems.

   Much of the past understanding about social diversity is motivated by
   the analogies to biodiversity in nature. The prevailing research on the
   role of biological diversity focuses on improvement of system
   performance (e.g., individual or species survival) by the selection
   from a pool of genetic diversity, in the process of natural selection
   or survival of the fittest. This process is fundamentally competitive
   between individuals or groups, with explicit winners and losers. This
   selection reduces diversity in its application - diversity is reduced
   by selection and must be replenished by mutation or migration. While a
   similar selection process may occur in social systems, this is neither
   an compelling justification for diversity within organizations, nor the
   only mechanism by which diversity contributes to better organizations
   or society.

   Current research at Los Alamos has identified an alternative process
   for higher system performance, which does not involve competition or
   cooperation between the individuals, but instead stresses the
   importance of non-competitive self-organization.

                                 [SciDiva.gif]

          Fig. 1. A sample maze (insert) with two minimum paths
          highlighted and the simulation results (main figure) showing the
          effect of the collective size on the path length, normalized by
          the average individual path length (about 12.8).


   Simulating collective problem solving

   We wish to address the question: what is the most simple demonstration
   of increased global performance of a collective above that of the
   individual? The idealized system examined is the solution of a
   sequential problem (Insert in Figure 1), which has many optimal and
   non-optimal solutions, solved by agents that have identical
   capabilities. While this maze problem is quite simple, it serves as a
   representation of more complex problems encountered by individuals and
   organizations: the solution of a problem that has many decisions points
   and possible solutions and that has difficulty greater than solvable by
   one individual. Here, agents can represent individuals, groups or
   organizations within a greater system.

   Because the agents have no global sense of the problem, they initially
   explore the problem until a solution is found. This "learned"
   information is then applied by the individual agent to solve the
   problem again, often with a shorter path as a consequence of
   eliminating unnecessary loops. Because the initial search is random, a
   collection of individuals shows a diversity of experience (regions of
   the maze), of preferences (preferred paths), and of performance (path
   lengths), even though they started with identical capability. (This
   source of diversity in performance by individuals of identical
   capability is a reminder how many of the advantages and disadvantages
   an individual has in social situations are a result of random events
   and not directly related to our "inherent" capability. Said another
   way, if we replayed or lived our own lives again, likely it would be
   quite different due to these random effects.)

   Information for a collective of individuals is then constructed by a
   linear combination of the each individual's experiences. Then the same
   rules are used on this collective information to find a collective
   solution. As seen in Figure 1, the collective typically outperforms the
   average individual for larger collectives. In repeated solutions to a
   problem, we tend to remember only the information needed to solve a
   problem and forget extraneous information associated with unused paths.
   Here, the equivalent effect is for the individual to contribute to the
   collective only "established" information along paths used by
   individual, thereby "forgetting" unused paths. Both the learned and
   established information produce the same path for the individual agent.
   As seen in Figure 1, the solution using the established information
   performs better than the learned information. Furthermore, for
   collectives above 20, the optimal solution is found, even though
   nothing in the agent's rules seeks a minimal path length. Figure 2
   shows one mechanism for the reason that the collective does better than
   any individual: individual information can be combined to indicate a
   shorter path for the collective.


                                 [SciDivb.gif]

                            Individual solutions
                             Collective solution

          Fig. 2. One mechanism for the better performance of the
          collective. To see how the collective solution is found, pick
          the path at each node that is traveled by the greatest number of
          individuals - this corresponds to the maximum preference of the
          group. Note that the collective path length is better than any
          individual.



   The organizational equivalent to the mechanism in Fig. 2 is how a group
          of workers may casually share information about their own
          experience at a certain point in a decision making process. But
          because they arrived at a common point from a different path,
          the relevance of their information may not be apparent and
          therefore only of value in a casual exchange and not in direct
          cooperation or competition. In an organization with many casual
          exchanges, these seemingly random sources of information can be
          reinforced by a collective exchange and lead either a group of
          individuals or a single individual to a better overall solution.
          This improved collective performance, due minimally to the
          random social exchange of diverse individuals, also benefits the
          functioning of the whole. It is also easy to see how this same
          collective effect would not happen with a low diversity group.


   Importance of Diversity

   To better understand the role and importance of diversity in this
   simple model and gain insight into social systems, quantitative
   measures of diversity were examined. The first choice of a measure, the
   breadth of experience of a collective over all possible paths, was
   found to be uncorrelated with performance.

   The best measure found defines diversity as the degree of unique
   information in a collection of agents. If all agents contribute the
   same information, even if it is for the entire domain, then this
   measure of diversity is low. If each agent contributes unique
   information not shared by others, then this diversity measure is high.
   Consequently, collectives contributing "established" rather than
   "learned" information exhibit higher diversity, even though less
   information is contributed by each agent. So we conclude that it is not
   how much information is important, but how the information contributed
   fits in to the other information known.

   Not only does this measure of diversity correlate best with collective
   performance, it also indicates the degree of insensitivity to noise.
   The performance of a collective with low diversity is poor when valid
   information is randomly replaced with false information, a measure of
   the robustness of a solution. False information can lead to unexplored
   paths in a less diverse collective, and then the solution degenerates
   to a random search (imagine driving and finding yourself on an
   unfamiliar road - the solution is either to backtrack or to search
   randomly). Diverse collectives have contingency information that makes
   the groups highly insensitive to noise. The stabilizing effect of
   diverse groups is critical in dealing with difficult problems where
   false information can lead to unexplored paths. In research which
   focuses on rational individuals with perfect information, an evaluation
   of performance often does not consider the robustness to noise, hence,
   the reason that diversity is rarely considered important. Yet,
   robustness is a critical aspect of any modern organization.

   If the effect of information exchange between individuals (a form of
   cooperation) is included in the above simulations, such that the
   individual while learning the maze can benefit from other agent's
   experiences, we find that improved individual performance can be
   achieved. But if the outside information is used too strongly, then
   there is the ultimate loss of diversity in the collective as every
   individual has the identical experience. In this case, the robustness
   of the collective can be severely degraded if the positive feedback or
   coherence is too great. We conclude that cooperation is actually a form
   of selection and reduces the expression of diversity (if I cooperate
   with you consistenly, then I don't cooperate with someone else). It is
   easy to see that the random associations that are beneficial to the
   group and individual above can be reinforced to the point of being
   exclusive. While this leads to more optimal performace, it also causes
   the groups to be less robust. (To see how this transition is part of a
   bigger view of how systems develop, see the paper titled Developmental
   Insights into Evolving Systems: Roles of Diversity, Non-Selection,
   Self-Organization, Symbiosis on the documents page. )


   Social and Organizational Implications

   The above study illustrates how diversity can arise with agents of
   identical capability from experiential differences within a system
   which contains multiple options. Just the existence of random options
   in the problem domain creates diversity. This is in contrast to the
   standard ecological arguments that diversity originates from
   competition to fill new niches. It is believed that this generation of
   random options and traits are a direct consequence of the system
   becoming more complex, a natural consequence of the development cycle
   of evolving systems (see the paper titled Developmental Insights into
   Evolving Systems: Roles of Diversity, Non-Selection, Self-Organization,
   Symbiosis on the documents page. )

   Furthermore, higher system performance and robustness occurs by the
   simple combination of the experiences of individuals, even though each
   individual solves a problem from a limited perspective. Unlike the
   selectionist view of diversity in natural systems, this study indicates
   that even in the absence of direct competition between and the
   consequencial selection of individuals, a higher system performance can
   be achieved with an alternative mechanism: the non-competitive
   combination of information from a diversity of individuals. In fact,
   the idealized system exhibits lower performance or lower stability if
   any selection is made, either by eliminating participation or reducing
   their contribution. In some cases, it is even found that eliminating
   the contributions of the higher performers actually can improve the
   group solution!

   The simulations also illustrate that improved collective performance
   can only be achieved with minimally skilled (or better) agents. If the
   agents gain experience randomly (have no "skill"), the collective shows
   no improvement over the average individual. We conclude that the
   performance of the whole is tied to the performance of the individual -
   as the individual learns, the non-competitive combination of diverse
   experiences increases the performance of the system as a whole.

   These results argue for the importance of organizational environment
   that freely exchanges information for both the benefit of the
   individual, but also for the group or organization. Many economic and
   social models of human dynamics begin with the assumption of
   competitive agents seeking limited resources. Furthermore, they embody
   significant capability in their agents to explain higher global
   performance. In the simple model above, system performance is shown to
   be greater than the capability of the agents and to occur from
   essentially independent agents randomly sharing information. Mechanisms
   of competition or cooperation are not required. The results also show
   that if the collective dominates the learning of the individual, and
   thereby reduces the diversity, then group performance become less
   robust.

   In modern times of organizations becoming more complex and facing
   problems of greater difficulty, centrally directed management of expert
   resources may not be an optimal approach to problem solving. For
   organizations to take advantage of increased performance from
   diversity, these studies suggest that, in addition to a skilled and
   diverse workforce, it is also necessary to encourage the expression of
   diverse views and to enable mechanisms for the exchange and processing
   of these views. The implications for all organizations is to create a
   work environment in which all employees are willing and able to
   contribute their knowledge and experience to solving the problems
   facing these organizations.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Ecosystems

         The Importance of Diversity: Reconciling natural selection

                        and non-competitive processes



                  by N.L. Johnson. The following taken from

       The Importance of Diversity: Reconciling natural selection and
                          non-competitive processes

         New York Academy of Sciences, Proceedings of the 7th Annual

    Washington Evolutionary System Conference: Emergent Organizations and
                                    their

             Dynamics, May 1999 (LA-UR-99-3048) PDF file (125K)


   SUMMARY

   To better understand the processes of selection in evolutionary systems
   (ecological to economic to social to artificial systems), the origins
   and role of diversity are examined in two systems that show increased
   group functionality (better performance, efficiency, robustness,
   adaptability, or stability, etc.). Diversity was chosen as a clarifying
   concept, because it appears to be largely ignored or misunderstood.

   One system is a model of group selection within an ecosystem. The other
   is the group solution of a sequential problem using self-organizing
   dynamics in the absence of any selection. A comparison of the two
   systems show that while diversity is essential to both, the improvement
   by natural selection is derived from "consuming" diversity, while the
   improvement by non-competitive self-organization is decreased by any
   reduction in diversity.

   The resulting perspective is that natural selection is a mechanism that
   increases the functionality of the individual (or groups within a
   larger system); non-competitive self-organization of the system,
   without need of selection, increases the functionality of the whole
   above that of the individual or group. The two extreme roles of
   diversity are reconciled if natural selection is not strongly expressed
   in these systems – "survival of the fittest" becomes "survival of the
   adequate" – so that non-competitive processes can occur. The resulting
   view of a mature ecosystem is an elastic web of interactions where
   natural selection is dormant or retains the status quo. The processes
   of natural selection for individual or group improvement are activated
   only if environment changes are sufficient to "break" the elastic
   interconnections, as might occur in punctuated equilibria.

   INTRODUCTION

   This paper suggests that a significant revolution is taking place in
   the fields of ecology, economics and social sciences that is changing
   our understanding of the processes in these systems. The expression of
   this change is in many forms, from theoretical understanding to
   experimental studies. The character of the change is based on the
   growing observations that the traditional views of these systems
   (mature ecosystems, developed economies and interdependent social
   systems) have processes that have been overlooked:
     * Competition and selection is less important in these mature
       systems; instead, mechanisms of cooperation and mutualism (mutual
       benefit for both) are significant.
     * Desirable global functionalities (better performance, efficiency,
       robustness, adaptability, increased stability, etc.) are emergent
       properties from the dynamical interactions of relatively simple
       constituents – the emphasis is on the dynamical origins.

   Within the field of ecology, both observations are best captured by the
   sustained work of Salthe, summarized in his most recent book1 and from
   a different perspective by Kauffman.2 The latter observation is the
   best captured by the group of researchers involved with the study of
   Artificial Life3 in the general field of complex adaptive systems.

   This paper focuses on the role of diversity in self-organizing systems,
   focusing primarily on ecosystems. Although the concept of diversity has
   been part of the lexicon of ecologists and social scientists since the
   beginning, a quantitative understanding of diversity has been limited
   until recently. The difficulty is that diversity is only a meaningful
   property in heterogeneous constituent systems and available analytical
   tools have been lacking. Recent studies of diversity have primarily
   been quantitatively advanced by simulations of genetic evolution 4 and
   knowledge systems,5 and by both analytical solutions and simulations in
   economics.6, 7 The latter two studies have observed initially
   counter-intuitive results in non-selective, problem-solving systems,
   such as how diverse groups solve problems better than individuals,
   without selection being present. The current study is an attempt to
   extend this new understanding of the role of diversity to ecosystems.

   The following discussion begins with a summary of the traditional
   viewpoint of natural selection, taking as an example from the recent
   literature a careful simulation of group selection. As a contrasting
   example, a model problem is presented where the non-selective
   interaction of randomly-generated diversity leads to higher system
   performance. We then introduce a current ecological understanding that
   de-emphasize selective processes and speculate how the apparently
   contradictory processes of natural selection and non-competitive
   self-organization might be integrated into one understanding for
   ecosystems, with the role of diversity as the pivotal concept.

   DEFINING CONCEPTS

   Because the following text spans many areas of expertise, the following
   definitions, assumptions and restrictions establish a common
   perspective.

   An agent or individual refers to any localized constituent or entity
   with a decision-making or problem-solving ability. It can be a single
   individual or a sub-group of individuals within a larger system. The
   decision making or problem solving can be as simple as a deterministic
   response of a physical subsystem given an initial state and external
   boundary conditions (because these systems are typically non-linear,
   deterministic chaos is still possible) or a conscious, premeditative
   act by a complex human problem solver. A sequence of decisions is a
   path through the problem domain, each step requiring that a previous
   problem be solved in order to proceed. For example, a path may be the
   sequence of events that are associated with decay of an organism or the
   sequence of decisions for an investment strategy. For example, in an
   ecosystem, nutrients can take many different paths from the initial
   creation by conversion of sunlight to use by a lower life form to more
   complex life forms to the final decay process and recycling.

   A group is a collection of agents that solve a common problem, either
   knowingly or not, cooperating or not, but which share a common view and
   expectations within the system. Local and global extent describes the
   degree of proximity of a property to an agent or group of agents. Local
   extent is limited to the region of the agent; global extent encompasses
   the system as a whole. Note that local and global are applied to more
   than just spatial extent. These concepts apply to any system where the
   information of the agent is limited to their proximity, including more
   abstract domains of functional space or knowledge space.5 The systems
   of interest are ones that have no or little centralized control and are
   self-organizing; that is, their dynamics are such that the system as a
   whole exhibits self-regulating processes that are largely determined by
   the properties of the subsystems and the governing processes of the
   dynamical system. Global properties that cannot be determined from the
   properties of the constituents are called emergent.

   Note that in the above definitions, the concept of decision making or
   problem solving is used outside of its normal context of solving a
   "posed" problem. Problem solving is extended to describe a change of
   state of a subsystem as a consequence of internal processes, which may
   not explicitly pose a "problem." This liberty in the definition of
   problem solving is taken in order to apply a common vocabulary to a
   variety of systems. This approach is similar to how concepts of
   cooperation and altruism are applied to both cognitive and
   non-cognitive systems in biology.8

   PERSPECTIVE ON DIVERSITY

   Before an analysis of the origin and role of diversity in these systems
   is made, a common understanding of meaning of diversity is needed. In
   the following, a working definition is given and the parameter space
   for diversity is discussed.

   In the current context, diversity of a group is defined to be the
   degree of unique differences within a group in which its constituents
   have a common "world view" (see Johnson5 for a mathematical
   description). Applying this definition, if all the individuals within a
   group have identical qualities, then the group has zero diversity,
   although the qualities of the individuals may encompass all possible
   variations of the system. If each individual contributes a unique
   quality not shared by others, then the diversity of a group is a
   maximum. The restriction to a common construct of the world is
   necessary, because differences between individuals in a group can arise
   from different assumptions (world-views) about the system. While this
   source of differences may appear to be a source of diversity, we argue
   that comparisons between different world constructs are not
   advantageous within a self-organizing system. For example, the
   approaches to problem solving of a New Yorker and Australian bushman
   are likely mutually exclusive and therefore "unique," but because these
   approaches operate in very different environments, it is of
   questionable meaning to measure their diversity (as defined above) and
   ask how it correlates to system performance. This is equivalent to
   saying that meaningful expressions of diversity to the system dynamics
   require the unique contributions to be potentially coupled by the
   system dynamics. Implicit in the above definition is that diversity is
   a property of a group of individuals, not of a single individual.
   Hence, the common phrase, "she has diverse interests" is meaningful
   only in comparison to a group. Diversity can be a measure of any
   characteristic of the system at a given time, either in function,
   capability or information.

   Because the systems of interest often have extent (as defined above),
   diversity can be evaluated either locally or globally. Global
   definitions of diversity have significance only if the system is
   coupled globally. For example, if one looks at the correlation between
   some measure of system performance and some measure of diversity over a
   greater and greater spatial extent, then at some extent, no correlation
   will be found as the diversity measure is including states that are no
   longer coupled by the system dynamics. An illustration of this would be
   the application of the concept of biodiversity of populations across
   uncoupled ecosystems, as commonly, possibly incorrectly, is done.

   NATURAL SELECTION – COMPETITIVE / SELECTIVE PROCESSES

   The dominant model for the advancement of individual functionality
   within biology is natural selection, often cited as the process of "the
   survival of the fittest." The role of natural selection in improving
   the individual fitness is not questioned here, but the exclusive role
   of natural selection on improving the fitness of the group or global
   system functionality is questioned. In this section a recent work on
   multilevel selection is reviewed to illustrate the basic relationships
   between diversity and selection.

   As a beginning point, the generally accepted role of diversity within
   natural selection can be summarized as follows: 9
     * Natural selection requires diversity; without diversity, selection
       cannot occur.
     * All other things equal, the greater the diversity, the greater the
       selection.
     * Selection consumes diversity. For selection to continue, diversity
       must be replenished, by either mutation or emigration.

   These statements are clear about the role of diversity within natural
   selection, but only for selection within one level and within one niche
   or closely related niches. Selection between multiple levels
   (individual, group, metagroups) introduces interdependencies that can
   lead to more complex behavior. Group selection is one common
   explanation of the origin of cooperative (altruistic) behavior or
   processes. The argument is that if selection operates between groups,
   then traits which are a disadvantage to the individual but advantageous
   to the group can be selected and propagated.

   A definitive paper on multilevel selection was published recently by
   Pepper and Smuts8 which presents an agent-based ecological model. This
   work addresses the need for developing the simplest model that
   illustrates cooperative behavior from group selection. Peppers and
   Smuts examine the development of observed altruistic behavior in two
   separate simulations: alarm callers in predator-prey systems and
   feeding restraint in foraging systems. Mutation is not considered in
   this work, so they examine the amplification of pre-existing traits.
   The authors summarize that "the model has shown that the groups
   emerging through the behavior of individual agents in patchy
   environments are sufficient to drive the evolution of group-beneficial
   traits, even in the absence of kin selection."8 They observe that
   "(b)ecause of its within-group disadvantage, cooperation can only
   spread though an advantage in founding new groups. Successful groups
   must be able to export their productivity from the local area, so that
   their reproductive success is not suppressed by local population
   regulation."8 In the absence of "patchiness" or spatial heterogeneity,
   individuals with the cooperative traits inevitably lose out to their
   selfish counterparts in this model.

   The trait variation, synonymous here with diversity, of within- and
   between-groups was examined by Pepper and Smuts by looking at different
   patch sizes and separations of patches. They observed the following:

     "Smaller trait groups in turn increased the strength of
     between-groups selection relative to within-group selection by
     changing the partitioning of genetic variance. Selection at any
     level requires that the units being selected vary genetically, and
     all else being equal, the strength of the selection increased with
     the genetic variance among units. In a subdivided population, all
     variance among individuals can be partitioned into within- and
     between group components, and the proportion of the total variance
     found at each level strongly affects the relative strength of the
     within- versus between-group selection. The smaller groups are, the
     more variance is shifted from within to between groups, and thus the
     stronger the between group component of selection becomes relative
     to the within group component. Because small isolated patches
     reduced trait group size, both small patches and large gaps
     facilitated the evolution of both forms of cooperation."8

   The results of the simulations confirm the three roles of diversity
   listed in the beginning of this section. The expression of group
   selection in the simulations does not alter these roles, with the
   exception that diversity is shifted to between groups and reduced
   within groups.

   ORIGINS OF DIVERSITY IN A COMPETITIVE SYSTEM

   Much has been written to explain the source of the observed bio-,
   social- and economic-diversity, but little quantitative proof of the
   mechanisms involved or discussion of the role of diversity has been
   offered. The basic argument10 is that to minimize utilization of scarce
   resources, material or energy, an individual or group will fare better
   if it can avoid direct competition with other individuals by creating a
   new niche, whether spatially or functionally. By occupying and adapting
   to the new niches, the system as a whole expresses greater diversity.
   Furthermore, the occupation of new niches can create additional
   diversity by the further adaptation of individuals that are
   interdependent with the original re-locator. Therefore, according to
   this argument, the existence of unexploited niches is the driving force
   for increased diversity.

   This argument is an explanation only for non-local diversity; it does
   not explain the observed diversity within a given niche, but only
   between niches. There appears not to be a satisfactory explanation of
   both local and global diversity in the simple application of natural
   selection. With more complex models, new mechanisms for diversity may
   arise. As an ecosystem becomes more complex, there exist mechanisms
   within group selection that might result in higher diversity within the
   group. As populations begin to specialize in function, and consequently
   become more interdependent, a population may function as a mutualistic
   entity better than as competing groups – an example is that the best
   house builder is a group of specialists and not any one of the
   specialists (plumber, carpenter, roofer, etc.).11 Presumably, this
   diverse, mutualistic entity would have a selective advantage. In the
   discussion section, we revisit a model with more complex processes,
   along with the role that diversity plays within a broader perspective.

   SIMULATIONS OF NON-COMPETITIVE SELF-ORGANIZATION

   In the following text, a quite different system, than the ecosystems
   considered above, is examined to investigate mechanisms for diversity
   creation and its importance to global functionality. The following is a
   summary of a detailed study.5 We wish to address the question: what is
   the simplest demonstration of increased global performance of a group
   above that of the individual? By most simple, we mean the least number
   of assumptions, processes or rules.

   The idealized system examined is the solution of a sequential problem
   (Insert in Fig. 1), which has many optimal and non-optimal solutions,
   solved by agents that have identical capabilities and do not interact.
   While this maze problem is quite simple from a global perspective, it
   serves as a representation of more complex processes: the solution of a
   problem that has many decisions points and many possible solutions and
   that has difficulty greater than that solvable optimally by one
   individual. It is argued that a more realistic landscape would not
   change the underlying processes that are observed in this simple model.

                                [SciDiva.gif]

   Fig. 1. A sample maze (insert) with two of the 14 minimum paths
          highlighted and the simulation results (main figure) showing the
          effect of the group size on the path length, normalized by the
          average individual path length, about 12.8.

   The solution process for a single agent is divided into a Learning
   phase where simple rules of movement are used to explore and learn
   about the problem domain. Because the agents have no global sense of
   the problem, they initially explore the problem until the goal is
   found. The learning process can be thought of as an agent exploring the
   maze randomly and leaving "breadcrumbs" behind to aid in their search
   for the goal, thereby avoiding fruitless paths. Then in an Application
   phase, this "learned" information (the bread crumbs) is then used by
   the agent to solve the problem again, typically with a shorter path as
   a consequence of eliminating unnecessary loops. Essentially, the agent
   follows the path with the most breadcrumbs in the Application phase.

   Because the initial search is random, a collection of individuals shows
   a diversity of experience (knowledge of different regions of the maze),
   diversity of preferences (different preferred paths at any one location
   in the maze), and diversity of performance (different numbers of
   steps), even though each agent has identical capability. This is the
   source of diversity in the population: by the domain having multiple
   optimal and non-optimal solutions, a diversity of experience,
   preferences and performance is created.

   In the repeated solution to an unchanging problem domain, we tend to
   remember only the information that is needed to solve a problem and
   forget extraneous information associated with unused paths. Here, the
   equivalent effect is for the agent to remember only "established"
   information along paths used by individual, thereby "forgetting" unused
   paths. The process of "forgetting" unused information does not change
   the performance of an individual agent, because both the learned and
   established information produces the same path in the Application
   phase, discounting random choices between paths of equal preference.
   Therefore, an established individual experience is created from the
   learned experience by retaining information just used in an individual
   solution, and forgetting unused information.

   The process of forgetting information has been argued as a form of
   selection in these simulations, but two points can be made. As we shall
   observe, there is only a quantitative effect of using established or
   learned information, so the basic conclusions of the simulations are
   not pivotal by the inclusion of this effect or not. The consideration
   of effect of forgetting is introduced, as we shall see, to clarify the
   correlation between diversity and performance: higher diversity leads
   to higher performance. Secondly, selection in a biological context
   means that the individual is removed from further contribution to the
   gene pool, not just part of their gene contribution. There is no
   equivalent removal of the agent in the current simulations. Indeed, the
   individual's performance is unchanged by the process of forgetting.

   Information for a group of individuals is then constructed by a linear
   combination of the each individual's experiences at each node in the
   maze. That is, the breadcrumbs from each individual in a selected group
   are summed for each decision point (node) in the maze. Then the same
   Application rules as used for the individual are used on this group
   information to find a group solution. As seen in Figure 1, the group
   solution always outperforms the average individual for larger groups,
   and the solution using the established individual information performs
   better than the learned information. Furthermore, for groups above 20,
   the optimal solution is found, although nothing in the agent's rules
   seeks a minimal path length. Figure 2 shows one mechanism for the
   reason that the group does better than any agent: individual
   information is combined to indicate a shorter path for the group
   (follow the maximum bread crumbs at each intersection). The dynamics of
   the group solution are chaotic in detail. For example, the specific
   path of a group is sensitive to the addition of one individual, even
   for arbitrarily large groups. Nevertheless, the global solution for the
   group, any path of minimum number of steps, is stable. This illustrates
   the desired feature of chaotic dynamics that leads to a responsive and
   robust system, but not at the expense of the quality of the global
   solution.

   [SciDivb.gif]

   Individual solutions                                  Group solution

   Fig. 2. One mechanism for the better performance of the group. Note
   that the path length of the group is better than any agent.

   To better understand the role and importance of diversity in this
   simple model, quantitative measures of diversity were examined. The
   best measure found defines diversity as the degree of unique
   information in a collection of agents, based on a node-by-node
   comparison of preferences, as defined in an earlier section. Groups
   contributing "established" rather than "learned" information exhibit
   higher diversity, although less information is available. Moreover, as
   observed in Fig. 1, the groups based on established information perform
   significantly better than those based on learned information.
   Furthermore, this measure of diversity also indicates the degree of
   insensitivity to noise. In the process of combining information for the
   group, if valid information of an agent is replaced by random
   information (breadcrumbs are randomly replaced with some amount), this
   is a test for the stability of the group solutions. It was found that
   groups with low diversity were very sensitive to noise, where groups
   with high diversity were not: up to 90% of valid information can be
   replaced before a group path degenerates to a random walk – the worst
   solution of all methods.

   All of the above studies assumed that the agents do not share
   information while learning or applying information; they are completely
   independent, except that they solve a problem with a common world view.
   If the effect of information exchange is included such that the
   individual can benefit from other agent's experiences while learning
   the maze, we find that improved individual performance is achieved. Not
   unexpectedly, groups made up of these shared-learning agents, converge
   with fewer agents to a minimum path length, much faster than observed
   in Fig. 1. But, the improved performance is not without a cost. Shared
   learning results in individuals with similar information and,
   therefore, the group exhibits low diversity, and, consequently, the
   stability of the group is degraded, often severely.

   How does the performance of the group depend on the individual
   performance? Two studies were done, one in which the mazes were made
   more complex while the individual's capability was held constant, and
   the other in which the maze was held constant and the individual's
   capability was varied. From these studies the following conclusions
   were drawn. 1) A simple maze to a good individual solver is a trivial
   problem, and no improvement is obtained by a group solution. 2) More
   difficult global problems require larger groups. 3) An extremely
   difficult problem to an individual with fixed capability leads to a
   random individual solution that shows no group advantage. The last
   conclusion is significant; it suggests that harder and harder problems
   cannot be solved by larger and larger groups of individuals. Or,
   equivalently, the individual must have some capability (i.e., not
   random) which can be amplified in groups. This observation is also
   related to the assumption of having a common world view. A different
   world view in the above simulations is equivalent to solving a maze
   with different connectivity between the nodes (i.e., each agent sees a
   different set of possible paths at each node), while still having the
   same common goal. While not demonstrated in the simulations described
   above, it is expected that a group of agents with "capability" above a
   random walk would perform poorly as a group, because the information
   that each contributes does not correspond to a common world view and,
   hence, will not be compatible and cannot be amplified. Therefore,
   different world views and limited individual capability both lead to no
   better group performance than the average individual.

   DISCUSSION: THE ROLE OF DIVERSITY

   The main observations of the above non-competitive simulations are
   twofold. One, they illustrate how diversity can arise in groups of
   agents of identical capability when a system has options of equal
   likelihood or fitness. Secondly they illustrate how random creation of
   diversity can contribute directly to both global performance and
   robustness, above that of an individual and in the absence of any
   selection from the population. Both of these observations are in direct
   contrast to the processes observed in natural selection when applied to
   a single level. In this section, we try to reconcile the two extreme
   approaches to higher functionality, represented by the two models
   summarized above.

   In both models, diversity is a prerequisite for improvement to occur:
   without diversity, there can be no improvement. For natural selection,
   this improvement is for the group by increasing the capability of the
   individuals in the group; for non-selective self-organization it is for
   the group, assuming shared learning is not present. However, this is
   where the similarity ends. Once the necessary functionality is achieved
   by natural selection, the immediate need for diversity is lost.
   Thereafter, having diversity at a current time becomes an investment
   for the future. When selection processes operate at a single level,
   diversity does not directly contribute to current system performance;
   only past diversity contributes to the current performance, and then
   only by the reduction of diversity in the selection process. Indeed,
   diversity can be argued to lower the group performance in a natural
   selection viewpoint by the inclusion of individuals with poorer
   fitness. By direct contrast, diversity in the non-competitive system
   directly contributes to performance and robustness at the current time.

   The above differences between the two extremes of self-organizing
   systems can be reconciled if the predominance of natural selection and
   competition in ecosystems, and in general all self-organizing systems,
   is relaxed. A possible beginning point is to adopt a less competitive
   view of ecosystems, where "the survival of the fittest" is replaced by
   "the survival of the adequate,"12 also referred to as
   "soft-selection."13, 14 Essentially this is a statement that in mature
   ecosystems, significantly greater expression of random variation is
   likely and there is no need to select among this diversity. This is
   equivalent to the observations in the non-competitive simulations that
   the source of diversity originates from indeterminacy in the solution
   space; one path is, at an individual level, as successful as another.
   For ecosystems, this argument requires that there exist multiple paths
   of near equal fitness. Mature ecosystems in nature are observed to have
   rich interdependencies.15 These interdependencies create many
   alternative paths for energy, material and information. Consequently,
   global system function is not dependent on a single critical path as,
   for example, in the many alternatives for transforming sunlight.

   The flexibility to express random diversity is not a sufficient
   argument for high diversity alone, because it begs the question why
   such flexibility exists. The non-competitive simulations provide
   insight into this question. The existence of multiple paths leads to a
   chaotic, but robust system. Ecosystems are chaotic in the same sense as
   the present study: a small change in initial conditions, or by the
   addition of noise, results in a different paths or different
   distribution of paths through the system. An example of the chaotic but
   robust nature of evolutionary systems is the recent theories of "frozen
   accidents"2, 16, in which the details are chaotic, e.g., the specific
   base-pairs in DNA, but where the global need is still satisfied - the
   need to develop an encoding system for passing on information to
   offspring. Another example is the material-energy path in an ecosystem:
   a slight difference in predator location can result in, say, a wolf
   consuming a dying deer, instead of bacterial decay, but in either
   scenario the global need for recycling nutrients is achieved. As
   observed in the non-competitive simulations, this chaotic property
   leads to the responsive nature of the system and prevents the failures
   due to senescence. 1 Nevertheless, the system is also robust in the
   sense that the global solution is stable, and not sensitive to random
   details or localized failures.

   A final result in the non-competitive simulations that is not
   unexpected, but does complete the global view of an ecosystem: the
   global performance, including robustness, is directly coupled to the
   performance of the individual. The ecological example of this would be
   if all populations that convert sunlight to useful forms of energy did
   this only erratically or with lower efficiency, then the global system
   as a whole would be less productive and robust. This suggests that from
   a global perspective, natural selection is needed to make the
   individual adequate to the global task of survivability. But because of
   the complexity of typical evolving systems, particularly in the degree
   of redundancy, it is difficult to argue what is essential and what is
   adequate for survivability. We can conclude only that some degree of
   individual performance is necessary, and natural selection is the
   likely mechanism for providing the functionality.

   The above speculations result in a powerful, multilevel perspective
   that can be simply stated. Natural selection is responsible for
   improvement or adjustment of the relative performance of the
   individual. But, once an interdependent, multiple-level system
   develops, then the need for selection is reduced, as the
   non-competitive processes for global performance become operative.
   Because both self-organizational processes require high diversity to be
   expressed, this creates an optimal system where either process can be
   operative as need be.

   One aspect of diversity that has not been discussed yet is the tradeoff
   between diversity, and its associated advantages, and the development
   of a common, and sometimes universal, functionality or approach. In
   ecosystems, these "cohesions" across populations can reduce diversity
   by limiting the potential space for random variation. An extreme
   example of this standardization in living systems is the universal
   adaptation of the DNA/RNA coding system – one of the few exceptions to
   the "rule" of biodiversity. In the non-competitive simulations the
   effect of information exchange during the Learning phase captures this
   concept. The reduced diversity of the system, and its associated
   decrease in robustness, is a tradeoff for the improved performance of
   the individual and small groups. This might be a mechanism for the
   beginning of an expression of specialization. Possibly, in a more
   complex simulation where groups could differentiate, this cohesion
   effect could actually lead to higher system diversity, and its
   accompanying advantages, as different populations define their own
   "uniqueness," an analog to speciation.

   What remains unanswered in the above argument is by what processes do
   global system functionality, such as robustness, become operative. It
   appears that desirable emergent global properties occur in many
   ecological, economic and social systems, but it is not clear how the
   properties in the individuals which result in these emergent global
   properties come into existence. There are two views of their origin.
   One is the view that the system itself contains these "structural"
   aspects and organisms form and exist within this structure.1 The other
   is that there are mechanisms for the global coevolution of the
   necessary traits to propagate the global system. 2 The present
   understanding does not resolve these issues.

   CONCLUSIONS

   The role of diversity, defined as the degree of unique contributions of
   individuals to a group, is compared in two extremes of achieving higher
   system functionality, natural selection and non-competitive
   self-organization. While both processes require diversity to function,
   there is a fundamental difference in the mechanisms by which diversity
   is activated. Natural selection consumes diversity to yield
   improvements for a later time; non-competitive self-organization yields
   improvements at the current time without selection from the population.
   The two extremes are argued to be compatible in ecosystems if there
   exists many alternative paths (energy, mass or information flow) of
   near-equal fitness. This flexibility is argued to occur in mature
   ecosystems.

   The resulting viewpoint of such an ecosystem is not static, but one
   which has "elastic" interconnections of many entities and processes.
   Interconnections are chaotic in detail, but globally robust. The
   response to moderate changes in the environment is the readjustment of
   these elastic interrelationships, but not their failure. The role of
   natural selection is largely dormant as a process of improving
   individual or system functionality. Where active, natural selection
   operates at the level of rejecting the least fit mutations and
   preserving the existing interconnections. If a sufficiently rapid
   environmental change occurs, then there is a catastrophic breakdown of
   this stable elastic web, which in turn precipitates a high degree of
   natural selection and a reformation of a new elastic system, based on
   significantly different interrelationships between new functional
   forms. We speculate that this process may be the true origin of the
   proposed punctuated equilibria. The advantage of this viewpoint is that
   it does not require the questionable assumption of reproductive
   isolation.17 The true test of the above speculations will require a
   sufficiently complex simulation that contains randomly mutualistic
   interdependence, combined with mutation and natural selection.

   ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

   The author gratefully acknowledges insightful conversations with
   Stanley Salthe, Dan Brooks, Mark Bedau and Shareen Joshi. This work is
   supported by the Department of Energy under contract W-7405-ENG-36


   REFERENCES

   1. Salthe, S.N. 1993. In Development and Evolution: Complexity and
          change in biology. MIT Press, Cambridge.

   2. Kauffman, S. 1993. In The Origins of Order: Self Organization and
          Selection in Evolution. Oxford University Press, New York.
          Oxford.

   3. Adami, C., R.K. Belew, H. Kitano, et al., eds. 1998. Artificial Life
          VI. MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.

   4. Bedau, M.A. 1995. Three Illustrations of Artificial Life's Working
          Hypothesis. In Evolution and Biocomputation: Computational
          models of evolution. W. Banzhaf & F.H. Eeckman, Eds.
          Springer-Verlag, Berlin.

   5. Johnson, N.L. 1998. Collective Problem Solving: Functionality Beyond
          the Individual. http://ishi.lanl.gov/Documents1.html: mimeo.

   6. Hong, L. & S.E. Page. 1997. Problem Solving by Heterogeneous Agents.
          mimeo.

   7. Hong, L. & S.E. Page. 1998. Diversity and Optimality. mimeo.
   8. Pepper, J.W. & B.B. Smuts. 1999. The Evolution of Cooperation in an
          Ecological Context: An agent-based model. In Dynamics of Human
          and Primate Societies: Agent-Based Modeling of Social and
          Spatial Processes. T.A. Kohler & G.J. Gumerman, Eds. Oxford
          University Press, Oxford.

   9. Fisher, R.A. 1930. In The Genetic Theory of Natural Selection.
          Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford.

   10. Rothschild, M. 1990. In Bionomics: Economy as Ecosystem. Henry
          Holt, New York.

   11. Pepper, J.W. 1999. Alternative source for diversity within group
          selection. Personal communication.

   12. Brooks, D. 1999. Natural selection as "Survival of the Adequate".
          Personal communication.

   13. Wallace, B. 1970. In Genetic Load: Its Biological and Conceptual
          Aspects. Prentice-Hall.

   14. Salthe, S.N. 1972. In Evolutionary Biology. Holt, Rinehart and
          Wilson, New York.

   15. Begon, M., J.L. Harper & C.R. Townsend. 1986. In Ecology. Blackwell
          Scientific Publication, Boston.

   16. Gould, S.J. 1990. In Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the
          History of Nature. W.W. Norton & Co., New York.

   17. Erwin, D.H. & R.L. Anstey. 1995. In New Approaches to Speciation in
          the Fossil Record. Columbia University Press, New York.
     __________________________________________________________________

                            Economies and Markets

   Many of the arguments and examples given above for social systems and
   ecosystems are directly analogous to economies and markets. Instead of
   developing this topic separately, some illustrative examples are
   provided here. First some general comments are made.

   An excellent summary of economies as (self-organizing) complex systems
   is given in the introduction of "The Economy as an Evolving Complex
   System II," written by and edited by W. B. Arthur, S. N. Durlauf and D.
   Lane (Addison-Wesley, 1997). They cite the properties of economies that
   are a challenge for traditional models: dispersed interactions of
   possibly heterogeneous agents, no global controller, cross-cutting
   hierarchical organization, continual adaptation, perpetual novelty, and
   out-of-equilibrium dynamics. In the following text and papers, the
   points that they emphasize relevant to the current discussion are the
   importance of networks of agents (interactions are local, not global)
   and of informal social processes in information transfer. What is
   missing in the discussion is a consideration of non-selective processes
   in the evolution of the markets and the role of heterogeneous (diverse)
   agents in the system performance. The above introduction is
   supplemented by the following observations.

   Similar arguments have been made as to the importance of a diversity of
   agents in an economic system - how stability and improved performance
   can occur in systems with diverse participants. This is a major
   conclusion of a recent analytical and computational study of the stock
   market (J. Doyne Farmer, Market Force, Ecology, and Evolution). What is
   missing from the discussion is how, by having agents with diverse
   market strategies, the performance and robustness of the market can be
   improved as a whole. Similarly across many studies of economies or
   markets, the starting assumption is that the agents in the systems are
   essential competitive and the processes are selective of only the
   fittest participants. At first reflection, this may be the most common
   view of the economic world, but on deeper observation of the relative
   effectiveness of the players, our experience is that many participants
   are far from the "fittest" competitors and, in fact, there is
   significant tolerance of all but the least "fit." Just as in the
   arguments presented for ecosystems, the lack of selection leads to more
   diversity and the higher diversity leads to higher system robustness.

   A common argument that is made is that an efficient market is a source
   of diversity - because new strategies are selected to accommodate new
   market dynamics. But just the opposite is true, as in ecological
   arguments, an efficient market would ultimately reduce diversity by
   eliminating less effective strategies. In our experience, just the
   opposite appears to be true: diversity of strategies can exist within
   an efficient market. Again, the conclusion is that in mature economic
   systems, the selective forces resemble the "survival of the adequate"
   rather than "survival of the fittest." Parallel arguments can be made
   that once diverse agents are present, the system as a whole can form a
   web of loose interactions that enable the system to be more robust, and
   can possibly perform better.

   The above discussion becomes even more cogent when applied to the
   current US stock market. Because of the influx of investors from a far
   wider representation of the public than ever before (50% of American
   family by current estimates), there is a much broader diversity of
   investment strategies. This single observation has many consequences
   that the arguments for social and ecosystems predict. Given the
   diversity of this system, it is not surprising that previous models of
   market prediction for homogenous investors are failing. Prior models
   assume some simple set of dominant strategies, but the current market
   is driven by possibly unpredictable combination of diverse strategies -
   some of which may seem random to a professional investor. This is
   supported by the observation that only a diversity of investors can
   predict the market, and not any one type of investor at any one time
   (See stockjungle.com, a company that uses players of a stock market
   game to manage an actual mutal fund. Also, a prior web page,
   investorsforecast.com, showed how predictions by diverse investors are
   consistently better than the predictions of any single cross-section of
   investors.) Similarly, the presence of diverse agents also is a
   compelling argument of the surprising stability of the current market,
   in contrast to many predictions otherwise by seasoned analysts. Because
   of the diversity of market strategies, there is significant
   insensitivity to prior observed sensitivities of the market. Indeed,
   the more random component of a novice investor may reduce market
   efficiency, but significantly increase market robustness.

   The one caveat to the above observations is that human systems are
   highly sensitive to excessive coherence of actions (and thereby loss of
   diversity) because of mass communication . The increase in robustness
   argued above can be lost if there exist a condition where the diversity
   of investment strategy is lost due to widespread positive feedback,
   leading to a coherent action. Although this possibility always exists
   with human social systems, it is also balanced by the diversity of the
   components of the system. Likely destructive coherence is more probable
   in system with lower diversity than larger diversity. This may be the
   explanation for the continued stability of the market, despite
   significantly large influences in the market, such as the crisis of the
   Pacific-rim economies.

     __________________________________________________________________

   Main page

                                  Documents

                                  Glossary

                              Revision History

                                  Send mail

                                 Other Sites

   Disclaimer/Privacy
