http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/techopps.html

   Technology Transfer Program Technology Transfer Program
   Who we are Patenets and Licenses Other Links Site Map
   Technology Opportunities

   U.S. businesses can take advantage of a vast pool of NASA-developed
   technology resources to find solutions to technical problems. Through a
   program known as Technology Transfer, NASA technology can be adapted,
   at little or no cost, to meet a particular need -- saving your company
   valuable time and money. Applications for NASA technology are
   widespread, from building prototypes of new production items to
   nondestructive testing of an existing component.

   Working with MSFC Tech Transfer
   [Get Acrobat Reader] Documents below with names ending in .pdf have
   been prepared using Adobe Acrobat and require the Acrobat Reader
   software to view them.

   bullet   Precision Imaging System Grids - NASA's Marshall Space Flight
   Center is offering licensing opportunities to use its newest
   fabrication process for high-precision imaging system grids. The method
   offers an attractive combination of better technology at much lower
   costs - it improves imaging precision while substantially reducing
   fabrication expenses and time. Potential uses for imaging system grids
   fabricated by this low-cost process are numerous, including medical
   devices and airport security baggage inspection systems. NASA currently
   uses the frabrication method to produce grids for its Fourier imaging
   system.

   bullet   Precision 3 - D Gamma Imaging System - NASA's Marshall Space
   Flight Center is developing three-dimensional (3-D) gamma imaging
   systems and is seeking commercial partners. These systems offer an
   attractive combination of precise 3-D imaging at much lower costs -
   improving resolution and quality of 3-D images yet cost less than
   comparable systems. Imaging time is also reduced. Potential uses
   include medical and research applications, such as small animal imaging
   and imaging of human orgnas.

   bullet   Imaging Technology - NASA scientists have discovered a method
   for providing Fourier Imaging with as few as one or two grid pairs,
   while capturing the entire available spectrum.

   bullet   Electro-Kinetic Thrust Technology - NASA scientists have
   discovered a method for generating thrust from two dimensional
   asymmetrical capacitor modules. The results are potentially greater
   efficiencies and improved reliability over currently available electric
   thrusters.

   bullet   Polycapillary Optics - Developed at NASA Marshall Space Flight
   Center (MSFC), this innovative X-ray system is a powerful tool for
   evaluating diffraction from small crystal and conducting
   crystallogrphic studies of their structures.

   bullet   Stepper Motor Control - NASA has developed a novel
   power-saving control method for stepper motors and is now offering this
   unique technology to US companies.

   bullet Electroplating of Hard Glassy Metals - Developed at NASA
   Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC), this technology is a novel method
   for electroplatin ultra-high-strength glassy metals-nickel-phosphorous
   and nickel-cobalt-phosphorous - in variety of alloys with different
   properties.

   bullet Strong Storage Tanks and Pipes - Developed at NASA Marshall
   Space Flight Center (MSFC), this technology uses a four-part process to
   make composite layered tanks and pipes capable of storing and carrying
   chemically aggressive fluids. Tanks fabricated using this process offer
   better containment of fluids and weigh less than aluminum or fiberglass
   tanks.

   bullet New Optics See More with Less - Developed at NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center (MSFC), this technology combines a panoramic refracting
   optic (PRO) lense with a unique detection system to acquire a true
   360-degree field of view.

   bullet 360-Degree Rotation Data as Linear Signal - NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center is offering companies the opportunity to license or
   jointly develop these innovative technologies.NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center has developed innovative resolver signal-conditioning
   technologies that provide rotational position information over a full
   360 degrees. Furthermore, an electrical circuit conditions the output
   so that the shaft angle position is represented by a linear analog
   signal. The features of NASAs new technologies offer several advantages
   over standard resolver signal-conditioning circuits. In addition, these
   circuits can be used in many commercial applications.

   bullet Low-Cost Brushless DC Motor Rate Sensor - NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center is offering companies the opportunity to license or
   jointly develop this innovative technology for direction-sensitive
   tachometers and rotational sensors. Developed at NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center, this new brushless motor technology offers a promising
   alternative to brush tachometers, resolvers, encoders, and other
   rotation sensors. This direction-sensitive, reliable, low-cost device
   is ideal for numerous commercial applications.

   bullet New Technology for Smaller, Low-Cost Rotary Position Sensors -
   NASA Marshall Space Flight Center is offering the opportunity to
   license or jointly develop a novel absolute rotary position sensor with
   integral signal-conditioning electronics in a single unit. Researchers
   at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center have developed a new absolute
   rotary position sensor that can be used as a conventional resolver or
   integrated with signal-conditioning electronics in a single unit.
   Compared to other sensors currently available, NASAs innovative sensor
   design is smaller and less expensive to produce.

   bullet VISAR - NASA Marshall Space Flight Center is offering consumer
   software companies the opportunity to license its' much sought after
   video image stabilization and registration (VISAR) technology.
   Originally developed for the FBI during the 1996 Atlanta Olympic
   bombing investigation, VISAR will enable homeowners, law enforcement,
   and others to dramatically enhance videotape sequences on desktop
   computers. This technology allows users to dramatically improve
   videotape sequences and still images extracted from moving video. For
   more information visit:
   http://www.rti.org/technology/to-visar_software.cfm

   bullet  Ternary Gas Plasma Welding Torch - (NASA) seeks to transfer the
   NASA-sponsored Ternary Gas Plasma Welding Torch technology to private
   industry for use in commercial applications. This device was developed
   by Lockheed Martin, for the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center, to
   provide a faster, more efficient means of joining thicker materials
   with relatively low heat inputs.

   bullet   Quick Connect Fastener - A quick-connect, slow-disconnect nut
   and bolt are being offered by NASA for technology transfer. The designs
   of the nut and the bolt are available together or separately. The
   design permits the nut to be installed simply by pushing it onto a
   standard bolt or threaded stud.

   bullet   High-Strength and Wear-Resistant Aluminum Alloy - NASA's novel
   aluminum-silicon alloy offers dramatic strength at high temperatures.

   bullet   Video Image Stabilization and Registration (VISAR) - NASA
   offers companies an innovative process for video image enhancement. As
   a video post-processing software tool, VISAR is unsurpassed. Supporting
   the process with high-speed electronics could allow for real-time image
   stabilization in custom applications.

     - Article posted in the Commerce Business Daily

   bullet   Fastrac Engine - The National Aeronautics and Space
   Administration (NASA) at Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) seeks
   qualified companies to further develop and commercialize the Fastrac
   turbo pump rocket engine. The Fastrac engine can be built for less than
   $1 million using commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) components
   and simplified manufacturing techniques. Fastrac provides 60,000 pounds
   of thrust and has many potential launch system applications. Having
   been tested successfully, the engine will propel NASA's X-34 flight
   demonstrator vehicle.

   bullet   Thermal Gasket - The National Aeronautics and Space
   Administration (NASA) seeks qualified companies for further development
   and commercialization of a new gasket technology. This gasket, which
   was developed at the Marshall Space Flight Center, consists of an
   electrically conductive substrate coated on both sides with a
   thermoplastic or braze alloy. When the substrate is heated by passing
   an electrical current through it, the coating melts. Preliminary tests
   have shown that this low-cost technology can fill imperfections and
   adhere like a liquid sealant or braze, creating a zero-leakage joint
   that can easily be disassembled for service.

   bullet   Stereolithography - Scientists at MSFC's Rapid Prototyping
   Center are using laser technology to build parts with photocurable
   resins. From computer-aided-design files, parts are created by a
   machine which directs the laser to cure the resin, layer by layer. Next
   the prototype parts are post-cured in an ultraviolet oven. Although
   stereolithography has been used mainly to produce concept models, this
   process has also created parts that were later cast in MSFC's foundry,
   using various types of metals ranging from aluminum to superalloys.

   bullet   Fluid Dynamics Analysis and Testing - Technical problems
   involving fluid mechanics and dynamics are being addressed by MSFC's
   Structures and Dynamics Laboratory. Scientists use a variety of
   analytical and experimental tools to examine different aspects of fluid
   dynamic phenomena. Studies include computational fluid dynamics,
   empirical methods and classical analysis, acoustic analysis, and
   experimental testing -- using either air, water, or other surrogate
   fluids. Although this Marshall facility has a background in fluid
   dynamics relating to launch vehicles and rocket engines, recent
   applications include a water-jet pump optimization, analysis and
   testing of an automotive power steering pump, and flow analysis of
   insertion of a prosthetic hip joint.

   bullet   Composite Manufacturing - Stronger, lighter-weight composite
   materials are being developed at Marshall's Productivity Enhancement
   Complex. These composite materials, which are typically a resin matrix
   reinforced with high-strength fibers, can be shaped to meet specific
   industry requirements. Working with different materials, such as glass,
   Kevlar, and carbon/graphite fibers, scientists are manufacturing
   materials that are less prone to corrosion and less sensitive to crack
   formation than conventional metals.

   bullet   The NASA Operational Environment Team (NOET) - MSFC has been
   designated the lead Center for environmental replacement and propulsion
   technologies. The NOET team supports managers in the production,
   development, testing, and delivery of NASA hardware -- ensuring the
   hardware meets performance specifications as well as non-hazardous
   environmental requirements. NOET also serves as a clearinghouse for
   information about NASA-wide environmental projects dealing with
   replacements for currently used products that are harmful to the
   environment. A great deal of effort is being put into finding
   replacements for environmentally harmful adhesives, degreasers,
   dewaxers, fuels, paints and paint strippers, primers, insulation,
   flushing and cleaning agents, anodizing, precision-cleaning materials,
   blowing agents, and brazing alloys. At MSFC's Productivity Enhancement
   Complex, scientists are working to qualify and approve chemical
   substitutes -- and make this technology available to private industry.

   bullet   Tribology - the study of friction, lubrication, and wear of
   surfaces in relative motion -- is the subject of many tests and
   evaluations being conducted at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center
   (MSFC) in Huntsville, Alabama. These scientists and engineers are
   searching for ways to provide more efficient, longer-lasting moving
   parts. NASA scientists are working with industry engineers to develop
   better bearing components for use in high-speed machinery

   bullet   Avionics Systems Simulation - Marshall Space Flight Center
   (MSFC) has developed a unique avionics simulations capability by
   integrating several existing MSFC avionics testbeds. The NASA Federal
   Laboratory Review Task Force has declared this simulation system the
   best throughout the world for the aerospace community. The unique
   capability to perform extensive end-to-end avionics system testing in
   an environment not previously available makes this a "world class"
   facility.

   bullet   Productivity Enhancement Complex (PEC) - The Marshall Space
   Flight Center (MSFC) PEC is the focal point for cooperative research
   activities between MSFC and its contractors. The PEC is operated by the
   Materials and Processes Laboratory at MSFC. Here, NASA and industry
   work together to develop new materials, processes, and assembly
   techniques. The PEC can evolve along with new technologies. With more
   than 40 research cells, the PEC can accommodate a variety of
   activities.

   bullet   Measuring Instrumentation Development and Evaluation - The
   Instrumentation Branch of the Instrumentation and Control Division at
   NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) in Huntsville, Alabama has
   the expertise and facilities to conduct research, development,
   evaluation, and selection of measuring instrumentation for a variety of
   applications.

   bullet   Friction Stir Welding - Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC)
   engineers, working in the Metallurgical Research and Development Branch
   of the Materials and Processes Laboratory, have developed a welding
   process with the capability to make straight lines without bringing the
   parent materials to the liquid stage. Click here for success stories.

   bullet   Diffractive Optics - Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) is
   the Center of Excellence for Space Optical Systems. Because of this,
   MSFC is NASA's lead center for identifying the technologies required to
   affordably produce the large space telescopes necessary for future
   missions. The Center has a responsibility to successfully infuse new
   technology into future missions.

   bullet  Quick-Connect Ball Joint - Developed at NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center (MSFC), this joint employs a unique spring-loaded
   mechanism that automatically secures a ball hitch upon insertion into a
   coupler. This eliminated the need for the locking lever found in most
   conventional ball joints. Connections made using MSFC's quick-connect
   joint are easier, safer, and more reliable than these made using
   conventional ball joints.

   bullet  Low-cost, Passive Light Exposure Monitor - NASA Marshall Space
   Flight Center (MSFC) has produced a passive light exposure monitor that
   is small, reusable, highly accurate, and tunable for exposure and
   wavelength -- all at a price that makes it a disposable item.

   bullet  Two-dimensional identification Coding - Researchers at NASA
   Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) have developed a series of
   technologies for marking and detecting images of two-dimensional matrix
   symbol patterns used to identify and track manufactured items. These
   matrix symbols can be hidden from view (e.g., beneath coatings or on
   the back side of a surface) or embedded in an assembly. As part of an
   automatic identification scheme, these matrix symbols offer high
   information density -- far more than traditional one-dimensional bar
   code technologies.

   bullet  High-Efficiency RF Power Amplifier - Researchers at NASA
   Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) have developed a new power
   amplifier to convert direct current (DC) electrical power to a radio
   frequency (RD) signal. By increasing the DC-to-RF conversion
   efficiency, this innovation dramatically reduces power consumption,
   thus decreasing solar array requirements for satellites and increasing
   battery life for portable electronics.


   Home

   Search
   Marshall Capabilities
   Partnerships
   Innovator's Corner
   Business Opportunities
   Working with Marshall
   Small Business Programs
   Technology Spotlight
   In-house Programs
   Technology Opportunities
   Facilities Commercialization
   Software Opportunities
   Publications
   Success Stories
   Patents/Licenses
   Other Links
   Site Map
