http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/paleo/drought/drght_home.html

   Drought: A Paleo Perspective
   Drought Beginning Drought Story Drought Data Drought Final Word

              Drought Site Map Paleoclimatology Homepage

   Cornstalk, Steinbeck quote

    ...Now the wind grew strong and hard,
   it worked at the rain crust
   in the corn fields.

   Little by little the sky
   was darkened by the mixing dust,
   and the wind felt over the earth,
   loosened the dust and carried it away.

   ...from The Grapes of Wrath,
       written by John Steinbeck.

   Droughts occur throughout North America, and in any given year, at
   least one region is experiencing drought conditions. The major drought
   of the 20th century, in terms of duration and spatial extent, is
   considered to be the 1930s Dust Bowl drought which lasted up to 7 years
   in some areas of the Great Plains. The 1930s Dust Bowl drought,
   memorialized in John Steinbeck's novel, The Grapes of Wrath, was so
   severe, widespread, and lengthy that it resulted in a mass migration of
   millions of people from the Great Plains to the western U.S. in search
   of jobs and better living conditions.

   Just how unusual was the Dust Bowl drought? Was this a rare event or
   should we expect drought of similar magnitude to occur in the future?
   Rainfall records used to evaluate drought extend back 100 years, and
   are too short to answer these questions. However, these questions can
   be answered by analyzing records from tree rings, lake and dune
   sediments, archaeological remains, historical documents and other
   environmental indicators, which can extend our understanding of past
   climate far beyond the 100-year instrumental record.

   This Web site was designed to explain how paleoclimatic data can
   provide information about past droughts and about the natural
   variability of drought over timescales of decades to millennia. We note
   that droughts are a world wide phenomenon and affect the global
   community. However, the focus of these Web pages is North America.


   Begin
   31 July 2000
   North American Drought: A Paleo Perspective
   Created by the staff of the NOAA Paleoclimatology Program
   Click for Acknowledgements and Site Map NOAA Home
