http://www.nbc.gov/products/payroll.html

                       NBC Home Page NBC Advertisement
     NBC Home Page NBC Products and Services NBC News NBC Employees NBC
                             Contact Us NBC Help
                                   red bar



   site navigation
   Products & Services
   Accounting Operations
   Acquisition Services
   ADP Services
   Business Opportunities
   Contract Administration
   Creative Communication
   Services
   DOI University
   Drug & Alcohol Testing
   Electronic Commerce
   Employee and Public Services
   Enhanced Fixed Assets
   Executive Information Services
   Federal Financial System
   Federal Payroll System
   Fiscal Services
   Hyperion Enterprise via Citrix
   Independent Validation and
   Verification Services
   Legacy Plus
   Momentum
   Organization Development
   Performance Support Services
   Procurement Systems
   Time and Attendance System
   Travel Manager
   Web Development and Hosting
   Online Demonstrations
   NBC Presentations
   NBC Inquire 21 Demo

                      Federal Personnel Payroll System

   The Federal Personnel/Payroll System (FPPS) is a modern,
   mainframe-based, portable, integrated, on-line, Y2K compliant, and
   real-time personnel and payroll system. The system provides personnel
   and payroll support to numerous agencies, servicing 180,000+ accounts.
   The system is customer-driven, creating and generating the full life
   cycle of personnel transactions, enabling agencies to maintain records
   electronically, FPPS handles all current regulations including
   specialized pay, garnishments, special appointment programs, and more.
   Visit the FPPS web site at www.den.nbc.gov and select Human Resources
   and Payroll.
   FPPS was developed by the National Business Center (NBC) using
   sophisticated data base technology, fourth generation language,
   structured development methodology, and computer-aided software
   engineering tools for robust performance and ease of maintenance. FPPS
   is a highly sophisticated and comprehensive database management system
   providing an extensive array of human resources (HR) and payroll
   automation support within its core, including requirements prescribed
   by client agencies, the NBC's centralized Payroll Operations Division
   (POD), and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).

   All data is defined in a single database which eliminates redundancy
   and multiple update routines. The single database concept also provides
   for ease of maintenance and ensures data integrity. Security is
   controlled by the customer and is sufficiently flexible to support all
   business processes. The system is table-driven to facilitate real-time
   data updates and maintenance. Many of these tables are on-line for
   customer use including the Centralized Personnel Data File 296-33
   Table. FPPS also offers all required electronic interfaces with the
   U.S. Treasury, OPM, National Finance Center and various accounting
   systems. The system offers extensive data warehousing capabilities.



                      Other features include:
     * Menu-driven screens
     * Immediate on-line processing
     * Single source data entry
     * Action suspense Ad Hoc query

                                            * Ad Hoc query
                                     * On-line reports or queries
     * On-line edits
     * Easily accessible data

             * On-line Help
     * Easy enhancements
     * Enhanced security
     * Reduced paperwork

   FPPS fulfills the requirements and specifications established by the
   Paperwork Reduction Act, the President's Council on Management
   Improvement for Federal Automated Systems, Government Accounting Office
   (GAO), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the Joint Financial
   Management Improvement program (JFMIP). It also satisfies initiatives
   of the National Partnership for Reinventing Government.

   FPPS also offers an automated Time & Attendance (T&A) system. The T&A
   system, like the rest of the FPPS, has security controls that allow the
   customer to set their agency's profiles for approval authorities
   according to their agency's needs.



   FPPS generates personnel and payroll outputs that simplify life,
                              including:
     * Personnel actions
     * Position actions
     * Payroll actions
     * Time capture records

      * EEO information
     * Security administration
     * Debt collection
     * On-line views

        * Retirement
     * Payroll accounting
     * On-line management information system
     * External reports

   For additional information, please contact Dennis Locke
   (Dennis_R_Locke@nbc.gov)

        Home  | Text  | Search  | Policies  | Directions  | Site Map
