http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/exporting.html

   [USEMAP:headexporting.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                                       VISION:
   Create Electronic Export Assistance Centers
                                Full statement

     Story Archive

      Get International Trade Assistance on Export.gov
      [exportportal.jpg] Make export sales happen. Expand your international
      business. Solve trade problems. Finance your export transactions. Find
      these topics and more on this one-stop for international trade
      assistance.

      Exporters Can Declare
      Their Goods Free Online
      [sidemonitor.gif] When American exporters export their goods, the
      United States Government no longer requires "paperwork." Not to mislead
      you, exporters or their agents must still complete and deliver a
      "Shipper's Export Declaration," commonly called "SED," for every
      commodity valued over $2500. But now, it's all on the Internet. It's
      easy and it's free!

      Export Counseling Via Phone, Fax, and Web
      [moneyfax.gif] The U.S. Department of Commerce's Trade Information
      Center is the first stop for information about all federal export
      assistance programs, as well as country and regional market
      information. Technology gives you more options for getting the Center's
      advice and information.

      E-Expo USA for Virtual Trade Shows
      [eexpo.gif] Is your company interested in increasing exports? Here's a
      wesite that allows you to exhibit your company's products and services
      without actually attending a trade show. E-Expo USA collects trade
      leads and international sales contacts and forwards them for follow-up.
      Your products and service information will stay online for 365 days
      --and the fee is small. Almost 500 companies are participating. E-EXPO
      USA is sponsored by Commerce's International Trade Administration.

      Exporting to the 21st Century
      [aeslogo.gif] Believe it or not, in this age of computers, most
      American exporters and their agents complete a federally-required
      "Shipper's Export Declaration" (SED) by hand. The SED is then
      hand-delivered by messenger to the cargo carrier and then to the U.S.
      Customs Service. Sounds like 19th Century technology to us! The U.S.
      Customs Service and the Foreign Trade Division of the Census Bureau
      have developed a free, voluntary, electronic filing program they hope
      will make exporters jump to join

      We're Looking for Stories

      Federal workers are doing amazing things to deliver government services
      electronically. Access America E-Gov E-Zine wants to tell these
      stories.

      We are looking for stories about federal agencies, or multi-agency
      partnerships, that are creating electronic export assistance centers.

      These stories can be short, as in a "byte" of about 150 words, or they
      can be longer feature stories. Write feature stories in plain language
      with quotes from customers who experience the service electronically
      and quotes from federal employees and their partners who deliver the
      service.

      Include a contact person with phone number and email address. Send your
      stories to pat.wood@npr.gov or pat.smith@gsa.gov. If you need more
      information, call Pat Wood, National Partnership for Reinventing
      Government, (202) 694-0063. Please pass this request along to others
      who may be interested.
