http://www.phila.gov/business.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Philadelphia Business Page Banner
   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Residents Page
   Philadelphia City at Your Service Philadelphia Visitors Page
[clearpixel.gif]

                                    Copyright© City Of Philadelphia 2001.  Terms of Use

   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Business News



   Philadelphia Business Section

   Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce and Lionheart Publishing are
   pleased to announce the launch of The Greater Philadelphia Story. This
   Web site is the online companion to the printed edition of The Greater
   Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce's complete newcomers' and relocation
   guide.

   MBEC Directory of Certified Vendors
   Highlights of 2001-2006 Capital Investment Program
   Philadelphia Welcomes Your Business

   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Tax Time Helpers
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philadelphia Business Tax... Electronic Filing

   Business Privilege, Net Profits, School Income, Wage Reconciliation Tax
   Returns can be filed electronically by using the City´s "ROAD" program.
   Business and Wage Tax Payments can be made electronically by using ACH
   Debits or ACH Credits. Both programs are sponsored by the Philadelphia
   Department of Revenue.
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philadelphia´s Plain Talk Tax Guide

   From the Philadelphia Department of Revenue, this  tax guide provides a
   brief description of the City of Philadelphia's taxes and water/sewer
   charges. This handy reference offers a helpful overview of what your
   obligations might be. Taxes that apply to both individuals and to
   businesses are included.
   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Frequently Asked Questions and Tax Filing Tips

                    From the City´s Department of Revenue
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philadelphia Tax Forms and Instructions

   Downloadable Tax Returns, Applications, Forms, Instructions, Coupons
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philadelphia Taxpayer Registration and Changes

   A business operating in the City of Philadelphia must be registered and
   have a tax account number.
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philadelphia Tax Case Developments

   Technical Rulings, Court Opinions, Tax Review Board Opinions, Phila Tax
   Code Amendments, Technical Staff Updates
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philly's Keystone Opportunity Zone

   A TAX FREE Opportunity through Philadelphia's Keystone Opportunity
   Zones...

   PA.Direct.file

   PA File Direct
   pa.direct.file is a FREE filing option fron the PA DEPARTMENT OF
   REVENUE that gives Pennsylvania taxpayers 24-Hour filing access via the
   Internet to file their PA personal income tax return. It provides for
   faster refunds and offers the option for direct deposit of your refund
   or electronic method to pay your taxes, which is not allowable when you
   file a paper return and uses Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) to encrypt all
   your information to ensure privacy.


   The IRS E-File
   An electronic filing business program offers fast, easy, secure, and
   accurate alternatives to paper returns from the IRS.
   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Business & Money News
   [clearpixel.gif]

  Philly Film Office Link

                         Latest news about Philadelphia's growing film industry.

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Philly Navel Business Center Link

   [clearpixel.gif]

   Philadelphia Naval Business Center (PNBC)

   Office of Defense Conversion project being developed by Philadelphia
   Industrial Development Corporation (PIDC) as a modern, master-planned
   business campus that will serve as the premier business location in the
   Delaware Valley..
   [clearpixel.gif]

   U of P Wharton School Link

   Wharton Fellows in e-Business Program
   A New Model for Lifelong Education
   Wharton and Internet Capital Group Form Strategic Alliance
   Unparalleled academic wisdom and practical B2B experience merge to
   accelerate business transformation
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   Latest Economic Indicators Link

   Latest Economic Indicators...
   from the US Census Economic Briefing Room

   Business News Daily

   Daily News Business
   Philadelphia Daily News Business section.
   ephiladelphia News
   Silicon Philly promotes, networks, and distributes the latest
   information about, new emerging businesses and technologies in the
   Philadelphia area.
   Inquirer Business
   The Philadelphia Inquirer Business section.
   Philadelphia Business Journal
   Interactive online publiation of the Philadelphia Business Journal
   Money.philly.com
   Philadelphia's business and investing scene, with news coverage from
   the Inquirer and Daily News.

   The Money Forum
   Discuss your money matters at philly.com
   The Digital Daily
   Daily tax publication from the US Department of the Treasury, IRS.
   Contains Income Tax Forms, Instructions, Publications, Regulations,
   etc.
   Local Bank Rates
   Compare rates for different types of accounts and loans.
   Pennsylvania Bulletin Online
   Includes PA State Contracts and PA Code on line.
   CNBC & the Wall Street Journal
   Business news highlights

   Doing Business with the City of Philadelphia

   The Vendor´s Guide to Doing Business with the City
   Bid Announcements
   Become a Bidder
   Mayor´s Business Action Team

   Minority Vendor Forms
   License and Permit Forms
   Business Tax Forms
   Commerce Department
   Minority Business Enterprise Council

   Starting and Growing Your Business in Philadelphia

   Starting a Business in Philadelphia
   Registering a Business
   Entrepreneur´s Guide
   Empowerment Zones
   Enterprise Zones
   Philadelphia's Keystone Opportunity Zones
   1500 designated acres throughout the city where certified companies can
   move to and pay virtually no city or state business taxes until the
   year 2011.
   Philadelphia Industrial Development Corporation (PIDC)
   "Helping Business do Business in Philadelphia"... a private,
   not-for-profit corporation, created by the City of Philadelphia and the
   Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce to promote economic
   development within the city.

   Venture Capital in Philadelphia
   US Census Bureau:Philadelphia
   Region
   Port of Philadelphia
   International Partnering
   Trade events and initiatives to help your company compete in the
   international marketplace.
   Workforce Development
   African-American Chamber of Commerce
   British-American Chamber of Commerce
   Chilean & American Chamber of Commerce
   French-American Chamber of Commerce
   Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce
   An advocate organization for Philadelphia-area businesses.
   Hispanic Chamber of Commerce

   Commercial Property Database Pictures  Bringing Your Business to
   Philadelphia

   PA State Resources
     * PA Open For Business
     * State Action Team
     * Team PA
     * PA Sourcenet
     * Financing... Doing Business in Pennsylvania
     * Small Businesses
     * Resource Network
     * State Tax Equalization Board
     * Business in PA

   Choose Philadelphia!
   Partnership Opportunities
   Greater Philadelphia Venture Group
   Current Philadelphia Economic Picture
   Economic Incentives

   Commercial Property Database
   Philadelphia Industrial Development Corporation has commercial and
   industrial land for sale in 11 industrial parks and districts around
   the city.  Take a virtual tour from your PC
   Federal Government Resources
     * Internal Revenue Service
     * US Census Bureau
     * FedStats
       The gateway to statistics from over 100 U.S. Federal agencies

   Mayor´s ECommerce Commission
   Philadelphia Business Resource Directory
   Workforce Statistics
   Pennsylvania State Data Center... official source of demo-graphic and
   economic data.

   Employment Information

   City Employment Opportunities
   Regional Employment (Tri-State)
     SEPTA
     Delaware River Port Authority
   State Employment
   Federal Employment
   Education & Training Resources
   US Census Bureau:Philadelphia Region

   Employment Figures for Philadelphia
   Pennsylvania Economic Indicators
   Pennsylvania State Data Center... official source of demo-graphic and
   economic data
   Pennsylvania Labor Force Data
   provided by PA Department of Labor & Industry's Bureau of Research and
   Statistics
   Pennsylvania Labor Market Information
   a database system by the PA Dept of Labor & Industry Center for
   Workforce Information and Analysis

   City @ Your Service Resources

   Payments to the City
   Records, Reports, & Requests
   Licenses & Certificates
   PA Gov't Blue Pages
   PA Blue Pages allows you to identify local Pennsylvania government
   officials and accompanying contact information.
   Yellow Pages
   Philadelphia City Code and Home Rule Charter
   Zip Code to Municipality Converter
   This will assist in converting a zip code number or a zip code name to
   a municipality within the Commonwealth
   Tax Rates
   County, municipal and school district tax rates, including Earned
   Income and Occupational Privilege Taxes and tax collectors.
   PA Business Taxes
   Includes: Additional Tax Forms, Business Tax Forms, Corporation Tax
   Forms, Motor Fuel Tax Forms, Pennsylvania Enterprise Registration
   (PA-100) Publications, Tax Rates

   The Pennsylvania Code Online
   Information included at this site has been derived directly from the
   Pennsylvania Code, the Commonwealth's official publication of rules and
   regulations
   PA Uniform Construction Code
   Pennsylvania Technology Atlas
   a link-to-learn mapping, layers information includes :ZIP Code
   Boundary, Local Roads, Highways,   School Districts, Congressional
   Districts, Local Economic Development Districts, Public Libraries,
   Public/Private Schools, Universities, Hospitals, Educational Sites,
   Organizations, Businesses, Telecommunications, Telephone, Cable,
   Utility and State Infrastructure
   Calculate Your Spending
   How much am I spending?

   Business Marketplace

   Buy Philly.com
   Greater Philadelphia's Online Marketplace for shopping, clothing,
   housewares, restaurants, jewelry, e-commerce, ecommerce, sporting
   goods, books, Philly gifts and services.
   Business-to-Business
   A business location search facility. Philadelphia Area Companies with
   Websites

   SmartPages
   Virtual Philly Classified
   Classified listings for the Philadelphia area.  Place your Philadelphia
   area or national classified ad here.
   The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
   The Philadelphia Stock Exchange

   Experience Philadelphia!

   Visitors Page Link

   Philly Attractions and Events
     * Museums
     * Theater, Arts & Culture
     * Places to Go
     * Places to Stay
     * Educational Opportunities Info Corner
     * Travel and Transit Information

       Residential and Community Information

    Residents Page Link
                       Local News
                              + Senior Citizen Information
                              + Neighborhood Maps, Studies, Planning Information
                              + Community Organizations
                              + Area Colleges and Universities
                              + Residential Information @Your Fingertips
                              + Community Programs and Services
