http://biowulf.nih.gov/apps.html

   [biowulf_small.gif]
   Status
   About
   Hardware
   Applications
   Batch queues
   Disk storage
   MPI
   Performance
   New Users
   User Guide
   Documentation
   Research

                       Applications on Biowulf/Lobos3

        AMBER
                AMBER (Assisted Model Building with Energy Refinement) is
                a package of molecular simulation programs. Version 6 is
                currently installed on Biowulf. Major programs in the
                AMBER package include sander, gibbs, nmode, LEap.

        BLAST on Biowulf
                A scheme for efficiently running a large number of
                sequence files against a variety of BLAST databases has
                been implemented on Biowulf. This procedure makes use of a
                couple of controlling script and an MPI wrapper process.
                See the documentation for details.

        BLAT
                BLAT is a DNA/Protein Sequence Analysis program written by
                Jim Kent at UCSC. It is designed to quickly find sequences
                of 95% and greater similarity of length 40 bases or more.
                It may miss more divergent or shorter sequence alignments.
                It will find perfect sequence matches of 33 bases, and
                sometimes find them down to 22 bases. BLAT on proteins
                finds sequences of 80% and greater similarity of length 20
                amino acids or more. In practice DNA BLAT works well on
                primates, and protein blat on land vertebrates. See the
                documentation for details on how to run Blat on Biowulf.

        CHARMM on Biowulf
                CHARMM (Chemistry at HARvard Molecular Mechanics) is a
                program which supports a wide range of theoretical
                modeling calculations of the structure and dynamics of
                biological molecules. In addition to energy minimization
                and molecular dynamics simulations, Monte Carlo sampling,
                use of genetic algorithms, and several interfaces to
                quantum codes (AM1, GAMESS) are available or under
                development. Recent CHARMM versions have been made
                available for use on Biowulf, as a joint effort between
                NHLBI/LBC Computational Biophysics Section and CBER/OVRR
                Biophysics Lab and with the support of Biowulf Staff.
                Multiple executables are available for each version, in
                order to support larger molecular systems, and the
                different types of parallel communications available on
                Biowulf, i.e. ethernet and Myrinet 2000. The support files
                are also available for the above versions, e.g. version
                .doc files, and the standard topology and parameter files.

                CHARMM is a fairly sophisticated and complicated command
                line based program; detailed CHARMM Documentation is
                available online.

        GAMESS
                GAMESS is a program for ab initio quantum chemistry.
                Briefly, GAMESS can compute wavefunctions ranging from
                RHF, ROHF, UHF, GVB, and MCSCF, with CI and MP2 energy
                corrections available for some of these. Analytic
                gradients are available for these SCF functions, for
                automatic geometry optimization, transition state
                searches, or reaction path following. Computation of the
                energy hessian permits prediction of vibrational
                frequencies. A variety of molecular properties, ranging
                from simple dipole moments to frequency dependent
                hyperpolarizabilities may be computed. Many basis sets are
                stored internally, and together with effective core
                potentials, all elements up to Radon may be included in
                molecules. Several graphics programs are available for
                viewing of the final results. Many of the computational
                functions can be performed using direct techniques, or in
                parallel on appropriate hardware.

        GAUSS
                The GAUSS Mathematical and Statistical System is a fast
                matrix programming language designed for computationally
                intensive tasks, which has a wide variety of statistical,
                mathematical and matrix handling routines.

        GAUSSIAN 98
                Gaussian 98 is a series of electronic structure programs
                performing computations starting from the basic laws of
                quantum mechanics. Gaussian 98 can predict energies,
                molecular structures, vibrational frequencies for systems
                in the gas phase and in solution, and it can model them in
                both their ground state and excited states.

        PFSearch
                The PfSearch program searches a protein or DNA sequence
                library for sequence segments matching a profile. The
                result is an unsorted list of profile-sequence matches
                written to the standard output. See the instructions for
                details on how to run Pfsearch on Biowulf.

        Physica
                PHYSICA is a high level, interactive programming
                environment with user friendly graphics and sophisticated
                mathematical analysis capabilities. Over 200 numeric and
                character functions are provided, as well as over 30
                operators, providing all of the operations of simple
                calculus, along with powerful curve fitting, filtering and
                smoothing techniques, and employing a dynamic array
                management scheme allowing arrays limited in size only by
                system resources. Algebraic expressions of arbitrary
                complexity are evaluated using a lexical scanner approach.
                Line graphs, histograms and pie charts, as well as
                contour, density and surface plots are available. The user
                interface is a command language with a simple to use and
                easy to learn syntax, incorporating basic elements of a
                structured programming language including conditional
                branching, looping and subroutine calling constructs. For
                more information see the Physica home page.

        PovRay
                POVRAY (Persistence of Vision RAYtracer) is a high-quality
                tool for creating three-dimensional graphics. Raytraced
                images are publication-quality and 'photo-realistic', but
                are computationally expensive so that large images can
                take many hours to create. PovRay images can also require
                more memory than many desktop machines can handle. To
                address these concerns, a parallelized version of PovRay
                has been installed on the Biowulf system.

        R
                R (the R Project) is a language and environment for
                statistical computing and graphics. R is similar to S, and
                provides a wide variety of statistical and graphical
                techniques (linear and nonlinear modelling, statistical
                tests, time series analysis, classification, clustering,
                ...).

        Swarm
                Swarm is a program designed to simplify submitting a group
                of commands to the cluster. Some programs do not scale
                well and thus are not suited to true parallelizing. Other
                programs may be such that each individual job is very
                short, but many such jobs need to be run. Such programs
                are well suited to running 'swarms of single-threaded
                jobs'. The Swarm program simplifies this process. See the
                documentation for details. Download swarm.
