http://www.niehs.nih.gov/oc/news/nettawd.htm

   Link to NIEHS Press Releases Home Link to NIEHS Home
                                     Link to NIH Home


   FOR RELEASE
   JAN. 25, 2002
   NIEHS PR #02-02 NIEHS CONTACT: Tom Hawkins
   (919) 541-1402
   hawkins@niehs.nih.gov

NIEHS' Dr. Paul Nettesheim Recipient of International Award

   Paul Nettesheim, M.D., D.M.S., Senior Science Advisor to the Director
   of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, has been
   named recipient of a Humboldt Research Award for Senior U.S.
   Scientists. This prestigious award recognizes lifetime career
   achievements and provides for extended stays to conduct research
   collaborations in Germany with German colleagues.


   Paul Nettesheim, M.D., D.M.S., Senior Science Advisor to the Director
   of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
   Paul Nettesheim, M.D., D.M.S., Senior Science Advisor to the Director
   of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences

   Dr. Nettesheim recently completed 18 months as Acting Scientific
   Director and head of the Division of Intramural Research at NIEHS, and
   before that served as chief of the Laboratory of Pulmonary Pathobiology
   at NIEHS since 1977. He joined NIEHS from a supervisory research
   position at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee.

   Dr. Nettesheim has published widely in scientific journals, served on
   editorial boards, and given numbers of invited lectures, and he has
   received international recognition for his work in cellular and
   molecular pathobiology of the respiratory tract. He will use his stays
   in Germany to study early molecular alterations in human bronchial
   cells exposed to air pollutants, working primarily with colleagues at
   the Fraunhofer Institute, which is affiliated with the University of
   Hannover, in Hannover, Germany. Dr. Nettesheim plans two stays in
   Hannover, from May to July 2002, and again in 2003.

   NIEHS Director Dr. Kenneth Olden said, "This award recognizes Dr.
   Nettesheim's highly distinguished research career and at the same time
   builds on his research contributions through collaborations at one of
   Europe's finest research institutes. This is truly an honor to both Dr.
   Nettesheim and NIEHS."

   The Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, which confers the award, is a
   non-profit foundation established by the Federal Republic of Germany
   for the promotion of international research cooperation.

   The NIEHS is a component of the National Institutes of Health. Located
   in Research Triangle Park, N.C., NIEHS is the only one of the National
   Institutes of Health not headquartered in Bethesda, MD.

   # # # #

   The URL for this press release is:
   http://www.niehs.nih.gov/oc/news/nettawd.htm

          Sign up to get email announcements from the NIEHS News List


   Link to NIEHS Press Releases Home                                  NIEHS News
                                     Environmental Health Information

   Contact: WebCenter (webcenter@niehs.nih.gov)
         Credits and Tools  /  Disclaimer
                                               Search NIEHS NIEHS Home NIH Home

   -=-
