http://ga2.er.usgs.gov/bacteria/


   Chattahoochee Riverway BacteriALERT project List of people to answer
   your questions
   Other Web sites involved in this project Definitions of terminology
   Return to home page
   Background information about this project Sponsoring agencies Info
   about the locations where bacteria are being sampled Common questions
   and answers Facts, figures about the Chattahoochee River View the
   bacteria data

   Chattahoochee River BacteriALERT

   Background:   How safe is it to swim, wade, and boat in the
   Chattahoochee River today? For a highly urbanized river such as the
   Chattahoochee, much of the answer depends on bacteria levels in the
   water. The Chattahoochee Riverway BacteriALERT provides you with daily
   bacteria information for three locations on the Chattahoochee River
   (map).

   Go to a page describing the sampling sites

   Info: Medlock Bridge site
   Info: Paces Ferry site
   Info: Chattahoochee facts

   Data tables Data tables
   Bar charts Bar charts

   Do you want to receive a daily email of the bacteria counts?
   Just give us your email address.

     Latest bacterial concentrations at three sites on the Chattahoochee
                                    River


   Chattahoochee River
   at Medlock Bridge Road

      Date   E coli
   01-29-2002
    10:55 AM   14

   Chattahoochee River
   at Johnson's Ferry Road

      Date   E coli
   01-29-2002
    10:05 AM   59

   Chattahoochee River
   at Paces Ferry Road

      Date   E coli
   01-29-2002
    9:56 AM    39

   Visit the NPS's water health risk levels page Water Health Risk Levels
   Assigned by the National Park Service:

   Chattahoochee River at Medlock Bridge:
   Current health risk is low

   Chattahoochee River at Johnson's Ferry:
   Current health risk is low

   Chattahoochee River at Paces Ferry:
   Current health risk is low
   Bacteria counts are in number of colonies per 100 milliliters (ml) of
   water.
   The EPA standard for E coli is 236 colonies per 100 ml.

   Visit the NPS's water health risk levels page Visit the National Park
   Service's detailed Water Health Risk Levels page

   Real-time discharges:
   Go to real-time info for station 02335000 Medlock Br. site
   Go to real-time info for station 02336000 Paces Ferry site
   Important concepts to understand:
   Link:What does health risk mean? What does "health risk" mean?
   Find out about the bacteria Find out about the bacteria

   Agencies and organizations playing a direct role in the Chattahoochee
   Riverway BacteriALERT are:
   List of the partners

                                    ----

   Home | Summary | Partners | Sampling sites | Q&A | ChattFacts | Results
   Contacts | Links | Glossary
   This URL: http://ga2.er.usgs.gov:80/bacteria/default.cfm
   File date: 01/24/2002 08:40:20 AM
