http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2001/10/0208.htm

                               [image002.jpg]

Release No. 0208.01


Kevin Herglotz (202) 720-4623

Tim McNeilly (202) 690-0498


   USDA ANNOUNCES $750,000 FOR NEW LIBRARY, $23.6 MILLION PACKAGE TO BRING
   HIGH-SPEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TO RURAL KENTUCKY


   WASHINGTON, October 25, 2001 – Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman
   today announced a $23 million loan package to provide modern,
   high-speed telecommunications to thirteen Kentucky counties and also
   announced the approval of a $750,000 direct loan for the construction
   of a new library in Wolfe County.


   “Today, as we talk about the future of agriculture, we must recognize
   the important role investments in our rural communities play in
   promoting economic development in rural America,” Veneman said.  "Our
   rural communities must have reliable and ready access to modern
   telecommunications in order to develop and assist underserved rural
   areas."


   The $750,000 direct loan is being provided through USDA's Community
   Facility program.  This program provides funding for constructing,
   enlarging, or improving essential community facilities such as
   libraries, public health and safety facilities.  The State of Kentucky
   is providing $175,000 to this project.  The library will serve
   approximately 6,500 citizens in rural Wolfe County.


               The $23.6 million loan and loan guarantee package from
   USDA’s Rural Utilities Service is for the NorthStar Technology, LLC of
   Corbin, Kentucky, to provide Personal Communications Service (PCS) to
   30,850 new subscribers in Bell, Casey, Clay, Harlan, Knox, Whitley,
   Laurel, Letcher, McCreary, Pulaski, Lincoln, Russell, and Wayne
   Counties.  Many counties in the region of eastern Kentucky face
   tremendous challenges through high unemployment, isolation from jobs
   and services, as well as limited financial resources.  The availability
   of modern, high speed, two-way telecommunications connectivity that
   provides both data and voice grade capability will bring these
   communities important digital technology.


               Veneman also announced $20,000 in National Centers of
   Excellence funding for Somerset Community College in Somerset,
   Kentucky.  The funds, through a cooperative agreement, will be used to
   provide information and technical assistance to help rural communities
   achieve sustainable community development. Somerset is one of eight
   educational institutions selected for funding.


   USDA Rural Development serves as the lead federal entity for rural
   development needs, and administers program assistance through three
   agencies: Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service,
   and Rural Utilities Service. Further information on USDA Rural
   Development can be obtained by contacting any USDA Service Center or by
   visiting USDA's web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/.

                                      #
