http://www.education.nasa.gov/stures.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   internet resources
     * Summer High School Apprenticeship Research Program (SHARP) - is a
       research based mentorship program that is specifically designed to
       attract and increase underrepresented students' participation and
       success rates in mathematics and science related courses, as well
       as to encourage career paths that help build a pool of
       underrepresented science and engineering professionals in the work
       place.
     * NASA Summer High School Apprenticeship Research Program (SHARP)
       PLUS - is a research-based mentorship program. During their
       eight-week SHARP PLUS research experiences, apprentices work with
       industry-or university-based mathematics, science, and engineering
       (MSE) professionals and engage in "hands-on" research. In addition,
       students live on a college campus, participate in a variety of
       enrichment activities, and establish relationships with a diversity
       of other SHARP PLUS apprentices.
     * NASA Cooperative Education Programs - are designed to combine
       academic studies with on-the-job training and experience and to
       give students an opportunity to work at a NASA Field Center while
       completing their education. Each NASA Field Center manages its own
       program. Contact the Cooperative Education Office at your college
       or university for NASA programs available to you.
     * The NASA Graduate Student Researchers Program (GSRP) - awards
       fellowships for graduate study leading to research-based masters or
       doctoral degrees in the fields of science, mathematics, and
       engineering. This website provides information about eligibility,
       submission of proposals, and the application process.
     * The NASA Undergraduate Student Research Program - offers
       undergraduates across the United States research experiences at
       NASA Centers during two sessions scheduled for Summer 2001 and Fall
       2001. This website provides information about eligibility,
       submission of proposals, and the application process.
     * Tech-Interns.com - NASA and the American Society for Engineering
       Education (ASEE) have partnered to provide an informational
       resource that includes technical research and internship
       opportunities available in over 200 private companies, non-profit
       organizations and government-sponsored research centers and
       laboratories.
     * NASA Minority University Research and Education Program - NASA's
       Office of Equal Opportunity Programs established the Minority
       University Research and Education Division (MURED) to increase the
       Agency's responsiveness to Federal mandates related to Historically
       Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Other Minority
       Universities (OMUs), including Hispanic Serving Institutions and
       Tribal Colleges and Universities.
     * NASA National Space Grant College and Fellowship Program -
       contributes to the nation's science enterprise by funding research,
       education, and public service projects through a national network
       of 52 university-based Space Grant consortia.
     * NASA Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research -
       EPSCoR - program targets states of modest research infrastructure
       with funds to develop a more competitive research base within their
       member academic institution
     * NASA Earth System Science Fellowship Program - Formerly the Global
       Change Research Fellowship Program and the Earth Science Graduate
       Student Research Program. NASA announces graduate student training
       fellowships for persons pursuing Master of Science (M.Sc.) or
       Doctoral (Ph.D.) degree in Earth System Science.
     * NASA Resident Research Associateship Program - This program is
       administered by the National Research Council and supports
       excellence in postdoctoral research. It is directed toward
       scientists whose research interests are compatible with NASA's
       programs in space science and aerospace technology.
     * Langley Aerospace Research Summer Scholars (LARSS) Program - offers
       undergraduates and first-year graduate students across the United
       States research experiences at NASA Langley Research Center for
       10-weeks each summer. The website provides information about
       eligibility, research competencies, and the application process.
     * NASA Research Opportunities Online - Various NASA offices  publish
       their research announcements over the Internet, broadening the
       opportunity for researchers to apply for funding.  This site
       provides access to all current research announcements along with
       their specific due dates.
          + The NASA Online Research Proposal Website - The SYS - EYFUS is
            an electronic system (SYS -) used by NASA Headquarters to
            request, receive, evaluate and follow-up on research proposals
            sponsored by NASA's Office of Equal Opportunity (Code E),
            Office of Earth Science (Code Y), Office of Human Resources &
            Education Division (Code F), Office of Life and Microgravity
            Sciences and Applications (Code U), and Office of Space
            Science (Code S). SYS - EYFUS also supports the funding and
            administration of awards pursuant to selection of these
            research opportunities.

     * NASA Student Job Opportunities - are designed to combine academic
       studies with on-the-job training and experience and to give
       students an opportunity to work with NASA while completing their
       education. Each NASA Field Center manages its own programs.
     * NASA Office of Procurement and NASA Acquisition Internet Service
       (NAIS) - is a service, from which industry has immediate access to
       current acquisition information over the Internet. The NAIS is a
       collection of on-line servers operated at each NASA field
       installation, and all are interconnected to ease the vendor's
       access to all NASA acquisitions.   Synopses, solicitations, award
       notices, acquisition forecasts, regulations, forms, and small
       business assistance are posted.
          + NASA Acquisition Forecast - It is NASA policy to prepare an
            annual forecast and a semiannual update of expected contract
            opportunities, or classes of contract opportunities, for each
            fiscal year. The forecast consolidates anticipated
            procurements (in excess of the simplified acquisition
            threshold) at each NASA Center with the aim of increasing
            industries' advance knowledge of NASA  requirements and to
            enhance competition. This forecast is subject to revision
            or cancellation, and is for Government planning purposes only.
            You are urged to review the Commerce Business Daily and the
            NASA Acquisition Internet Service for the actual notice of a
            pending contract action.
     * NASA's Strategic Enterprises -NASA's overall program, as outlined
       in the agency's Strategic Plan, is comprised of five Strategic
       Enterprises. Each enterprise covers a major area of the agency's
       research and development efforts. The five NASA enterprises are
       Aerospace Technology, Biological and Physical Research, Earth
       Science, Space Science, and the Human Exploration and Development
       of Space.
     * Federal Information Exchange - (FEDIX/MOLIS) - FEDIX provides
       instant access to federal agency information on research programs,
       contact information, educational programs and services, equipment
       grants, procurement notices, minority opportunities and more. MOLIS
       provides comprehensive information on minority colleges and
       universities, such as institutional capabilities, student and
       faculty profiles, educational programs, research centers and more.

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
        NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Center Education Web Sites
