http://www.ibwc.state.gov/RIOGRAND/body_binational_waters.htm

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

        Transboundary Aquifers and Binational Ground-Water Data Base
                     City of El Paso/Ciudad Juárez Area
     __________________________________________________________________

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                    Historical Flows of other international waters

   [clearpixel.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

   [clearpixel.gif]

   FORWARD

   PARTICIPATING AGENCIES

   LIST OF PRINCIPAL PARTICIPANTS

   COLLABORATORS

   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

    TABLE OF CONTENTS

   INTRODUCTION

   Previous Work

   Study Area

   Types of Ground-Water Information Exchanged

   HUECO-TULAROSA AQUIFER

   Location and Extent

   Basin Geometry and Rock and Sediment Types

   Current Water Levels

   Historical Water Level Trends Along the El Paso/Ciudad Juárez Corridor

   Ground-Water Extraction Estimates

   Current Water Quality (general inorganic constituents)

   Historical Water Quality Trends (general inorganic constituents)

   SOUTHEASTERN HUECO AQUIFER

   Location and Extent

   Basin Geometry and Rock and Sediment Types

   Water Levels

   Water Quality (general inorganic constituents)

   RIO GRANDE AQUIFER

   Location and Extent

   Sediment Types

   Recharge

   Discharge

   Ground-Water Extraction Estimates

   Current Water Quality (general inorganic constituents)

   Rio Grande Water Quality

   Historical Change

   RECOMMENDATIONS

   REFERENCES

   FIGURES

   [clearpixel.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                           A Binational Publication
                           Principal Participants
                           United States of America
             International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC)
            United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
                    Texas Water Development Board (TWDB)
           New Mexico Water Resources Research Institute (NMWRRI)
     Estados Unidos Mexicanos Comisión Internacional de Limites y Aguas
                                   (CILA)
                      Comisión Nacional del Agua (CNA)
       Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento de Ciudad Juárez (JMAS)
                                January, 1998
   _______________________________________________________________________

                                   FORWARD

   This document integrates official ground-water data from the United
   States and Mexico into one data base. These data were exchanged during
   a series of official meetings held in the offices of the Comisión
   Internacional de Limites y Aguas and the International Boundary and
   Water Commission, respectively in Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua and El Paso,
   Texas.

   In addition to the international ground-water data base, this document
   includes a general report that summarizes and integrates the data
   graphically, and prepares other hydrogeologic maps and figures from the
   published literature. The graphics and maps in the report are mostly
   limited to the data in the attendant ground-water data base. However,
   additional surface water and ground-water data that were derived from
   previously published sources are presented in a few figures. The
   earlier data have been officially approved and archived by the U.S.
   Geological Survey, the International Boundary and Water Commission, and
   the Comisión Nacional del Agua. By international agreement the format
   of this general report provides limited processing of ground-water
   data, but no discussion of the significance or ramifications of the
   data or figures. The reader is at liberty to derive independent
   conclusions from these data that do not reflect the official opinions,
   either expressed or implied, of the principal participants in the
   study.

                            PARTICIPATING AGENCIES

   Participating United States agencies include the Texas Water
   Development Board (TWDB), the New Mexico Water Resources Research
   Institute (NMWRRI), the International Boundary and Water Commission
   (IBWC), and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA).
   Participating Mexican agencies include the Comisión Nacional del Agua
   (CNA), the Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento (JMAS) de Ciudad
   Juárez, and the Comisión Internacional de Limites y Aguas, (CILA). Text
   was written by Barry Hibbs. Report assembly and cartography were by the
   TWDB.

                LIST OF PRINCIPAL PARTICIPANTS FOR EACH AGENCY


   UNITED STATES

                                                                          MEXICO

                                    TWDB

                                                                           CNA

  Barry Hibbs

                                         Rubén Chávez Guillén

  Radu Boghici

                                         Oscar Escolero Fuentes

  John Ashworth

                                         Noel Hernández Laloth

  Mark Hayes

                                         Manuel Martinez Morales

  Darrell Peckham

                                         Angélica Molina Maldonado

                                   NMWRRI

                                                                           JMAS

  Bobby Creel

                                         Francisco Nuñez

  John Kennedy

                                         Ranulfo Lemus

  Adrian Hanson

                                         Gustavo Moreno

  Zohrab Samani

                                         Ezequiel Rascón

                                    IBWC

                                                                           CILA

  Rong Kuo

                                         Antonio Rascón

  Sylvia Waggoner

                                         Armando Reyes

  Cruz Ito

  Jim Robinson

  Jose Valdez

  Debra Little

                                   USEPA

  Ken Williams

  Michael Vaughan

  Oscar Cabra

  Terri Kelly

  Chris King

                                 COLLABORATORS

    United States:
   Texas Water Development Board (Steve Moore, Ericka Boghici, Frank
   Bilberry, Jay Galvan, Steve Gifford, Mike McCathern, Miguel Pavon); New
   Mexico Water Resources Research Institute (Pamela Hann, Kenny Stevens);
   LBG-Guyton Associates (Bruce Darling); Texas Bureau of Economic Geology
   (Edward Collins, William Mullican); U.S. Geological Survey (Linda Beal,
   Mike Kernodle, Brennon Orr); El Paso Public Supply Board (Sayeed
   Joraat, Ernest Rebuck, Roger Sperka); University of Texas at El Paso
   (Nancy Lowery).

    Mexico: Comisión Internacional de Limites y Aguas (Hector Orta);
   Comisión Nacional del Agua (Orlando García Rojas, Eric Morales
   Casique); Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento (José M. Canizales,
   Ricardo Sánchez).

                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

   This binational aquifer study and data report was published under a
   cooperative agreement between the participating agencies in the United
   States and Mexico. Binational data that are archived in this document
   include information on land use, well data, core descriptions,
   ground-water levels in wells, ground-water quality analyses, and
   pumping records. General ground-water data and characteristics of the
   Hueco-Tularosa aquifer, southeastern Hueco aquifer, and Rio Grande
   aquifer below the El Paso narrows are presented in the narrative of the
   report. Study results for each aquifer are as follows:

                            Hueco-Tularosa Aquifer
     * A surface divide near the New Mexico/Texas State line separates the
       Tularosa Basin (a closed basin) and the Hueco Basin (a
       through-flowing basin) topographically. The surface divide does not
       correspond to a structural or ground-water divide, and the two
       basins are connected by interbasin ground-water flow from New
       Mexico into Texas. Because of the interconnection, the Tularosa and
       Hueco Basins are considered in this report as one aquifer; the
       Hueco-Tularosa aquifer. For convenience, the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer
       is designated to include water bearing strata in both the flanking
       highlands and saturated bolson fill.
     * Total surface area of the portion of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer
       evaluated in this report is 10,800 km². Approximately 67% of its
       land area is in New Mexico and 22% of its land area is in Texas.
       About 11% of its land area is in Mexico. The aquifer is the key
       source of water for the City of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez, and for
       military installations and smaller cities in New Mexico, Texas, and
       Mexico.
     * Depth to ground water in the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer is variable.
       Depth to ground water near the Cities of Tularosa and Alamogordo at
       the flanks of the Sacramento Mountains is between 6 and 46 m.
       Drawdowns in many municipal wells, up to 30 m, have been recorded
       in this area. Ground water is at or near ground surface at Alkali
       Flat due to evaporative discharge from a wet gypsum playa. Depth to
       ground water near the White Sands Missile Range Headquarters, at
       interior portions of the basin, is up to 122 m. Little drawdown has
       been recorded there. Drawdowns in the Hueco Bolson near the New
       Mexico/Texas State line has been relatively small, not exceeding 9
       m. Current depth to ground water beneath the City of El Paso is
       usually between 76 and 122 m at distances from the Rio Grande.
       Present depth to ground water beneath Ciudad Juárez varies from
       about 30 to 76 m, except near the Rio Grande where depths are often
       less than 20 m.
     * In heavily developed parts of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer, drawdowns
       since 1940 are up to 45 m. Pumping cones of depression in municipal
       wellfields are the focal points of drawdown. Most of the drawdowns
       near municipal wellfields vary between 15 and 30 m. Focal points of
       drawdown are shown beneath El Paso and Ciudad Juárez.
     * Most ground-water discharge from the Hueco Bolson is due to pumping
       withdrawals for municipal and military water supply. Quantities of
       ground water pumped from the Hueco Bolson from municipal and other
       sources have increased by a factor of almost 6 since 1950. Recent
       trends indicate that municipal pumpage in Mexico increased about
       12.5% between 1990 and 1994. Municipal and military pumpage in the
       United States decreased 24.0% during the same time interval.
       Pumping trends reflect the increased dependance on ground water in
       Mexico, and partial conversion from ground water to surface-water
       use in the United States.
     * Ground water north of the New Mexico/Texas State line is usually
       greater than 1,000 mg/L TDS except in mountains and along mountain
       fronts, where ground water is usually less than 1,000 mg/L TDS.
       Many samples along the interior of the basin at or just south of
       Alkali Flat have TDS greater than 10,000 mg/L. Near and extending
       across state line to the Rio Grande alluvium, ground waters along
       the Franklin Mountains are characteristically less than 700 mg/L
       TDS. Basinward of the recharge areas along the Franklin Mountains
       salinities increase to over 1,000 mg/L in many wells, reaching
       concentrations over 1,500 mg/L in wells along the axis of the
       basin. Salinities of ground water underlying the Ciudad Juárez area
       are generally less than 1,000 mg/L.
     * Chloride and other dissolved ions have increased over time in many
       of the municipal wells in El Paso and Ciudad Juárez. Hydrochemical
       plots show a pattern of salinization of wells that have had
       significant long-term drawdowns. Chloride now exceeds 250 mg/L in
       several of the wells in the area.

                          Southeastern Hueco Aquifer
     * The southeastern Hueco Bolson is separated geographically from the
       Hueco-Tularosa Bolson at the El Paso/Hudspeth County line. A
       southeast trending linear aquifer, the bolson extends for 88 km
       from the El Paso/Hudspeth County line to its southeastern limit at
       Indian Hot Springs. The bolson is bounded on the north by the
       Finlay, Malone, and Quitman Mountains and Diablo Plateau. The
       Sierra de San Ignacio, Sierra de El Almagorsa, Sierra de San Jose
       Del Prisco, Sierra de Las Vacas, and Sierra de Carrizalillo define
       its southern boundary. For convenience, the southeastern Hueco
       aquifer is designated to include water bearing strata in both the
       flanking highlands and plateaus and saturated bolson fill.
     * The thickness of the bolson fill of the southeastern Hueco aquifer
       decreases from as much as 2,600 m at the El Paso/Hudspeth county
       line to an infinitesimal thickness where the bolson thins out near
       Indian Hot Springs. Saturated bolson fill is principally the lower
       basin fill series. The lower basin fill is mostly lacustrine clay,
       bedded gypsum, and minor sand, silt, and clay from both alluvial
       fans and local fluvial deposits. The upper basin fill series, a
       second lithologic unit, is thin and contains little water east of
       the El Paso/Hudspeth County line. The upper basin fill deposits
       were formed in alluvial fan, fluvial, and lacustrine systems and
       are composed of sand and gravel and minor silt and clay.
     * North of the Rio Grande, the regional potentiometric surface map
       shows high hydraulic heads and ground-water divides along the
       Diablo Plateau, Finlay Mountains, and Quitman Mountains. Areas of
       high head in the mountains and plateaus define focal points of
       recharge in the southeastern Hueco aquifer. Hydraulic head
       gradients in the Cretaceous and other bedrock strata are as much as
       0.07 along ground-water divides and are as little as 0.04 along
       mountains fronts. Hydraulic gradients in the bolson fill are about
       0.008. South of the Rio Grande, the potentiometric surface slopes
       to the river from high topographic elevations along mountain
       fronts. Springs flow at high elevations from the mountains in
       Mexico. These probably discharge from locally perched flow systems
       that do not define hydraulic head in the zone of regional
       saturation. Data are not adequate to define regional hydraulic
       heads beneath these mountains. Hydraulic gradients south of the Rio
       Grande, from mountain fronts to the river, are about 0.01 to 0.03.
     * The southeastern Hueco aquifer can almost be considered
       undeveloped, especially north of the Rio Grande. Low capacity
       domestic and livestock wells are used to satisfy the needs of the
       local population and livestock industry. This is partly a function
       of the low yield and relatively high salinities of the aquifer.
     * Total dissolved solids in the southeastern Hueco aquifer are
       typically greater than 1,000 mg/L in the mountains, increasing to
       as much as 4,000 mg/L in the bolson. The hydrochemical facies of
       southeastern Hueco aquifer ground waters on the United States side
       of the study area varies from Ca-Mg-HCO3  and Na-SO4  along the
       Diablo Plateau to Na-SO4-Cl beneath the floor of the basin. In
       Mexico, waters vary from Ca-Mg-HCO3  beneath the Sierra de San
       Ignacio, Sierra de El Almagorsa, and the Sierra de San Jose Del
       Prisco to Ca-Mg-SO4-Cl waters beneath the basin floor. Typically
       these ground waters have TDS that vary between 1,000 and 3,500
       mg/L. Indian Hot Springs is an exception; Na-Cl water with TDS
       higher than 7,000 mg/L discharges from Cretaceous carbonate and
       clastic rocks at the hot springs.

                              Rio Grande Aquifer
     * Southeast of the El Paso narrows, the Rio Grande flows across a
       broad alluvial floodplain that has incised the surface of the Hueco
       Bolson. The Rio Grande alluvial floodplain in the El Paso/Juárez
       Valley is underlain by a complex mosaic of braided and meandering
       river deposits. Formed during alternating periods of scour and fill
       in the late Quaternary Period, the river deposits consist of
       irregularly distributed gravels, sands, clay, and silt lenses and
       beds. Alluvial fill consists of reworked bolson fill material,
       eroded bedrock, and extrabasinal sediments transported by the Rio
       Grande from its headwaters in New Mexico and Colorado to the El
       Paso/Juárez Valley.
     * Recharge to the Rio Grande aquifer along irrigated reaches is due
       primarily to infiltration of surface water that has been applied to
       irrigable crops. Recharge also occurs to some extent by direct
       seepage from diversion canals and river channels, although lining
       of the Rio Grande channel along the Chamizal zone limits recharge
       by the river locally. Other sources of recharge to the Rio Grande
       alluvium include direct precipitation on the floodplain surface,
       seepage from irrigation canals and drains, infiltration of runoff
       along arroyos, and recharge from cross-formational flow with the
       Hueco Bolson. Quantification of the amounts and spatial variability
       of recharge to the alluvial aquifer is infeasible with available
       data.
     * Ground water is discharged from the Rio Grande alluvium by
       irrigation pumping, by subsurface seepage to the Rio Grande, by
       leakage to drains, and by cross-formational leakage to the Hueco
       Bolson. Along the heavily urbanized Chamizal zone, discharge occurs
       primarily by cross-formational leakage from the alluvium to the
       Hueco Bolson where storage in the Rio Grande aquifer is depleted by
       heavy municipal pumping in the bolson aquifer. From Chamizal zone
       to the El Paso/Hudspeth County line, discharge occurs by irrigation
       pumping and by leakage to the many drains which help to maintain
       nearly constant water-levels in the alluvial aquifer. From the
       county line to Fort Quitman, discharge occurs by irrigation
       pumping, by seepage to the Rio Grande, and by leakage to a few
       drains.
     * Stiff diagrams indicate sodium-sulfate type ground-waters in the
       Rio Grande aquifer in El Paso County. Below the El Paso/Hudspeth
       County line, chloride increasingly becomes the dominant anion in
       the cation/anion pairing. Mexican ground waters follow the same
       general trend, but show greater scatter in the segment of the
       floodplain across from Hudspeth County. Ground-water samples
       frequently were collected in and beneath arroyo deposits that
       overlie earlier alluvial floodplain deposits in Mexico. Arroyos act
       as recharge areas after episodic precipitation events and
       ground-water chemistries have wide scatter due to commingling of
       dilute runoff waters and older alluvial ground waters.
     * Total dissolved solids in the Rio Grande aquifer in El Paso County
       vary substantially, but fall mostly within the 1,000 to 3,000 mg/L
       range. Total dissolved solids are higher in alluvial deposits in
       Hudspeth County, falling mostly within the 3,000 to 6,000 mg/L
       range. In both regions, total dissolved solids are lower in the
       Mexican part of the floodplain aquifer due to mixing of dilute
       runoff waters with older, higher salinity waters. This is an
       artifact of well locations closer to arroyos on the floodplain in
       Mexico.
     * Historical monthly water quality and streamflow data show changes
       in river water quality and discharge between El Paso/Ciudad Juárez
       and Fort Quitman. Spatial changes in sodium, sulfate, chloride, and
       total dissolved solids for most months indicate appreciable decline
       in river water quality downstream. Data indicate that water quality
       improves when river discharge is high during the irrigation season.

                                 INTRODUCTION

   The challenges of managing scarce ground-water resources along the El
   Paso/Ciudad Juárez corridor demands a complete understanding of the
   transboundary resources of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer, southeastern
   Hueco aquifer, and Rio Grande aquifer. Forecasts predict the depletion
   of the recoverable freshwater reserves of these binationally shared
   aquifers by the middle half of the 21st century. Several strategies,
   including desalinization technologies, subsurface wastewater injection,
   aquifer storage and recovery, and conjunctive surface and ground-water
   use may extend the depletion forecasts. Imperative is the cooperation
   of the United States and Mexico to use the ground water resources of
   the aquifer wisely for the benefit of the citizens of both nations.
   This binational data library and technical report is an important and
   positive cooperative step.

                                 Previous Work

   Dating to Schlicter's (1905) study, several studies of ground-water
   resources in the El Paso/Ciudad Juárez area have been completed. In the
   United States, most studies have been limited to the area north of the
   international border in El Paso County. A few of the studies conducted
   in the United States have extended across the International border to
   include the Ciudad Juárez area locally (Meyer, 1976; Lee Wilson and
   Associates 1986; IBWC, 1989). Mexican water agencies and consultants
   have conducted a number of ground-water and geophysical studies in the
   Juárez Valley and in the immediate area of Ciudad Juárez (e.g., de la
   O'Carreno, 1957, 1958; Garcia, 1967; Geo Fimex, 1970; C.I.E.P.S., S.C.,
   1970).

                                  Study Area

   The aquifers evaluated in this report include the Hueco-Tularosa
   aquifer, the southeastern Hueco aquifer, and the Rio Grande aquifer
   between the El Paso narrows and Indian Hot Springs, Texas (Figure 1).
   The study area includes parts of Otero and Dona Ana Counties, New
   Mexico; part of Hudspeth County, Texas; all of El Paso County, Texas,
   and a smaller part of northern Chihuahua, Mexico. The study area
   includes the heavily developed portion of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer
   beneath the City of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez.

                  Types of Ground-Water Information Exchanged

   The ground-water databases included in this report have been provided
   by the participating agencies. The general types of data exchanged are:
   land use, well data (construction, ownership, well use, etc.), core
   descriptions, ground-water levels in wells, results of ground-water
   quality analyses, and pumping records. The information is organized by
   country and, in the case of the U.S., by state. Not all data types
   listed above are available for each entity. The data pertinent to the
   U.S. can be found in the folder U.S.A. which contains two sub-folders:
   Texas and New Mexico. Similarly, the Mexican data is located in the
   folder Mexico. All the available information has been tabulated and
   saved in MS Excel 7.0 workbooks. Each workbook consists of spreadsheets
   named for the type of data they contain. Sample tables with headers and
   rows of data are shown in the Appendix A, at the end of this report.
   Efforts have been made to organize the U.S. information in a consistent
   manner. The Mexican data was grouped together in one file but was not
   otherwise modified or organized. The Mexican data presented in this
   report represents data that has been officially sanctioned for
   international distribution by the Federal Government of Mexico.

                            HUECO-TULAROSA AQUIFER

                              Location and Extent

   The Tularosa Basin extends southward for 274 km from south-central New
   Mexico to a gentle surface divide about 11 km north of the New
   Mexico/Texas State line. The basin is bounded on the east by the
   Sacramento and Hueco Mountains and on the west by the San Andres,
   Organ, and Franklin Mountains. The Tularosa Basin is bounded on the
   north by Chupadera Mesa. Our study region terminates at the northern
   edge of Dona Ana and Otero Counties, New Mexico (Figure 2), which
   includes 6,700 km² of the basin's total surface area.

   The surface divide near the New Mexico/Texas State line separates the
   Tularosa Basin (a closed basin) and the Hueco Basin (a through-flowing
   basin) topographically. The surface divide does not correspond to a
   structural or ground-water divide, and the two basins are connected by
   interbasin ground-water flow from New Mexico into Texas (Wilkins,
   1986). Because of the interconnection, the Tularosa and Hueco Basins
   are considered in this report as one aquifer; the Hueco-Tularosa
   aquifer. For convenience, the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer is designated to
   include water bearing strata in both the flanking highlands and
   saturated bolson fill.

   In Texas, the Hueco Bolson extends south from the New Mexico/Texas
   State line to the Sierra Juárez to the west and to the Sierra El
   Presidio and Sierra Guadalupe to the south. From the Sierra Juárez, the
   Hueco Bolson trends southeast to Indian Hot Springs. The part of the
   Hueco Bolson that extends southeast from the El Paso/Hudspeth County
   line to Indian Hot Springs is designated herein as the "southeastern
   Hueco Bolson." The separation is made partly for convenience and partly
   because of its different geographic orientation, low yield, and limited
   population. The southeastern Hueco Bolson and associated bedrock
   aquifers (collectively the southeastern Hueco aquifer) are discussed in
   the next section.

   Total surface area of the portion of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer
   evaluated in this report is 10,800 km². Approximately 67% of its land
   area is in New Mexico and 22% of its land area is in Texas. About 11%
   of its land area is in Mexico. The aquifer is the key source of water
   for the City of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez, and for military
   installations and smaller cities in New Mexico, Texas, and Mexico.

                  Basin Geometry and Rock and Sediment Types

   The Tularosa and Hueco Bolsons are asymmetric grabens, bounded by
   mountains that are mostly tilted fault blocks. Faulting has produced
   steep escarpments on the east side of the San Andres and Franklin
   Mountains and moderately steep scarps on the west side of the
   Sacramento and Hueco Mountains. The trough of these grabens thicken
   generally from Alkali Flat to the New Mexico/Texas State line.
   Hydrogeologic cross sections show basin fill thickening and inferred
   geology at three transects across the basin (Figure 3). Major
   structural and stratigraphic boundaries in these maps (such as depth to
   bedrock) were prepared from surface geophysical data and testhole logs
   (Davis and Leggat, 1967; McLean, 1970; Geo Fimex, 1970).

   Consolidated strata that provide small to moderate quantities of water
   in the highlands range in age from Precambrian to Tertiary. Most of the
   water wells in bedrock are shallow, and penetrate only a few tens of
   feet of saturated bedrock. The most prolific bedrock aquifers are
   karstified and fractured carbonate and clastic rocks. Intrusive and
   extrusive rocks and metamorphic rocks are not usually highly prolific.

   Thick sequences of Paleozoic sedimentary rocks are exposed in the
   Sacramento Mountains. Precambrian granites, Precambrian metamorphic
   rocks, and Paleozoic sedimentary rocks are exposed in the San Andres
   Mountains. The northern Organ Mountains consist of masses of Tertiary
   intrusive rocks to the north, and Paleozoic, Cretaceous, and lower
   Tertiary sedimentary rocks to the south. The Franklin Mountains include
   sequences of Paleozoic carbonate rocks and Precambrian and Tertiary
   intrusive rocks. The Hueco Mountains are mostly carbonate and clastic
   rocks of Paleozoic and Cretaceous age. The part of the Diablo Plateau
   that bounds the Hueco and Tularosa Bolsons consists mostly of Permian
   and Cretaceous carbonate rocks and some Tertiary intrusive rocks. The
   Sierra Juárez, Sierra El Presidio, and Sierra Guadalupe of northern
   Chihuahua, Mexico are mostly carbonate and clastic rocks of Cretaceous
   age.

   Basin fill sediments are usually weakly consolidated to
   non-consolidated, heterogeneous materials that overlie Precambrian
   through Tertiary rocks (Sandeen, 1954; de la O Carreno, 1957,1958; Geo
   Fimex, 1970; Wilkins, 1986). Non-indurated units in the Tularosa Bolson
   include gravels, sands, muds, and dune deposits; mostly gypsum sand.
   Weakly and moderately consolidated basin fill deposits include
   fanglomerates, conglomerates, soft sandstones, caliche, shale, and
   gypsum. Coarse materials are deposited on the flanks of the mountains
   and formed as alluvial fans.

   Lower basin fill deposits in the Hueco Bolson include lacustrine muds,
   interbedded with layers of bentonitic claystone and siltstone and some
   discontinuous sand lenses. The upper basin fill is composed of mostly
   fluvial stream-channel and floodplain deposits. These and earlier
   deposits are juxtaposed against fanglomerates that flank the margin of
   the basin (Strain, 1966). Deposits in the upper basin fill are
   predominantly gravels and sands, interbedded with muds, volcanic ash,
   and caliche (Geo Fimex, 1970; Wilkins, 1986). Sand and gravel sediments
   in the upper basin fill are thickest along the Franklin and Organ
   Mountains and Sierra Juárez, becoming thinner and finer-textured along
   the axis of the basin (USBR, 1973). Throughout the basin, the
   percentage of clay increases generally with depth (Geo Fimex, 1970; Orr
   and Risser, 1992).

   These same general trends are shown by the electrical resistivity cross
   section D - D' in Mexico (Figures 2 and 4). Vertical electrical
   soundings performed in the Hueco Bolson across from San Elizario (G1 to
   GVI) showed that aquifer resistivities are up to 100 ohm-m in the upper
   50 to 200 meters of bolson fill (Figure 4). The high resistivity values
   suggest potable waters are present in relatively coarse-textured
   sediments. At depths between 250 and 500 meters, the electrical
   resistivity values are usually less than 15 ohm-m. Such low values
   imply clay-dominated strata, or strata saturated with slightly to
   moderately saline pore fluids (de la O Carreno, 1958; Dobrin, 1976;
   Kearey and Brooks, 1984). At depths greater than 600 to 750 meters,
   resistivity values are greater than 20 to 50 ohm-m, suggesting bedrock
   of probable Cretaceous age.

   Southeast of GVI, (GVI to G6), electrical resistivities within the
   upper 200 meters of bolson fill are mostly less than 8 ohm-m, marking
   the transition from sand-dominated bolson deposits with potable waters,
   to clay-dominated bolson fill or coarse-basin fill saturated with
   inferior quality ground water (Figure 4). An exception is between G5A
   and D' where a 50 m thick layer of high resistivity material (100
   ohm-m) is present. This thin layer probably represents coarse-textured
   bolson fill that may be associated with arroyo deposits formed along
   the Bandejas River Valley (Geo Fimex, 1970).

                             Current Water Levels

   Near the cities of Tularosa and Alamogordo, on the eastern flank of the
   Tularosa Basin, the potentiometric surface map slopes to the southwest
   with a hydraulic gradient of 0.01 - 0.0019 (Figure 5). Hydraulic head
   exceeds 1,340 m along the Sacramento Mountains. Hydraulic head exceeds
   1,250 m and hydraulic gradients are about 0.04 along the White Sands
   re-entrant, a narrow gap between the Organ and San Andres Mountains.

   Along the basin floor, the hydraulic gradient is relatively flat
   (~0.0001) between Alkali Flat and the New Mexico/Texas state line. An
   almost imperceptible ground-water divide may be present at White Sands
   that separates ground water recharged north of White Sands from
   southward flowing ground water that moves into the Hueco Bolson. Ground
   water moves south from the Tularosa Bolson into the Hueco Bolson and
   eventually moves into Texas across the state line.

   In El Paso County hydraulic gradients are steep (0.02 ) on the Hueco
   Mountains and are probably even steeper on the Franklin Mountains. Data
   are not sufficient to map hydraulic head at the Franklin Mountains.
   Ground water tends to flow along the axis of the basin toward the Rio
   Grande, except where large pumping cones of depression beneath the City
   of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez have reversed the natural hydraulic
   gradient.

   Depth to ground water in the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer is variable. Depth
   to ground water near the Cities of Tularosa and Alamogordo at the
   flanks of the Sacramento Mountains is between 6 and 46 m. Drawdowns in
   many municipal wells, up to 30 m, have been recorded in this area
   (Figure 5). Ground water is at or near ground surface at Alkali Flat
   due to evaporative discharge from the wet gypsum playa.

   Depth to ground water near the White Sands Missile Range Headquarters,
   at interior portions of the basin, is up to 122 m. Little drawdown has
   been recorded there (Figure 6). Drawdowns in the Hueco Bolson near the
   New Mexico/Texas State line has been relatively small, not exceeding
   1.5 to 9 m. Depth to ground water in this area is about 91 to 107 m.
   Current depth to ground water beneath the City of El Paso is usually
   between 76 and 122 m at distances from the Rio Grande (Figure 6).
   Present depth to ground water beneath Ciudad Juárez varies from about
   30 to 76 m, except near the Rio Grande where depths are often less than
   20 m.

        Historical Water Level Trends Along the El Paso/Ciudad Juárez
                                  Corridor

   In heavily developed parts of the Hueco Bolson, drawdowns since 1940
   are up to 45 m. Pumping cones of depression in municipal wellfields are
   the focal points of drawdown. Most of the drawdowns near municipal
   wellfields vary between 15 and 30 m (Figure 6). Some of the highest
   rates of drawdown have occurred beneath Ciudad Juárez; for example,
   over 30 m of drawdown has been recorded at JMAS-15 in less than 25
   years (Figure 6). Steep rates of decline are shown for most of the
   other municipal wells in Ciudad Juárez. A drawdown map computed with
   water-level data collected between 1987/1988 and 1992/1993 presents
   drawdowns in the Hueco Bolson beneath the City of El Paso and Ciudad
   Juárez (Figure 7). Focal points of drawdown are shown beneath both
   cities.

                       Ground-Water Extraction Estimates

   Most ground-water discharge from the Hueco Bolson is due to pumping
   withdrawals for municipal and military water supply. Quantities of
   ground water pumped from the Hueco Bolson from municipal and other
   sources have increased by a factor of almost 6 since 1950 (Figure 8).
   Recent trends indicate that municipal pumpage in Mexico increased about
   12.5% between 1990 and 1994 (Figure 9). Municipal and military pumpage
   in the United States decreased 24.0% during the same time interval
   (Figure 9). Pumping trends reflect the increased dependance on ground
   water in Mexico, and partial conversion from ground water to
   surface-water use in the United States.

            Current Water Quality (general inorganic constituents)

   General water quality of the Hueco - Tularosa aquifer is shown in the
   regional stiff map (Plate 1). This map used very recent water quality
   data in areas where extensive ground-water development has occurred,
   and both historical and recent data in areas where there has been
   little current and historical ground-water pumpage. Comparison of
   multiple samples collected from the same water well over several
   decades indicates that most analyses do not change significantly when
   the aquifer is not developed. Historical data are therefore, considered
   to be good proxy data for current water quality in areas where the
   aquifer has not been pumped significantly.

   Ground water north of the New Mexico/Texas State line is usually
   greater than 1,000 mg/L TDS except in mountains and along mountain
   fronts, where ground waters are dilute. Many samples along the interior
   of the basin at or just south of Alkali Flat have TDS greater than
   10,000 mg/L. Near and extending across the state line to the Rio Grande
   alluvium, ground waters along the Franklin Mountains are
   characteristically less than 700 mg/L TDS (Plate 1). Basinward of the
   recharge areas along the Franklin Mountains salinities increase to over
   1,000 mg/L in many wells, reaching concentrations over 1,500 mg/L in
   wells along the axis of the basin. Salinities of ground water
   underlying the Ciudad Juárez area are generally less than 1,000 mg/L.

   Several sets of hydrochemical analyses are clustered according to
   distinct hydrochemical groupings (Figure 10). They include (1) mountain
   and mountain front samples along the Sacramento Mountains; (2) mountain
   and mountain front and gypsum playa samples along and below the San
   Andres and Organ Mountains; (3) mountain front samples along the
   Franklin Mountains; (4) basin floor samples in the Hueco Bolson (New
   Mexico, Texas, and Mexico); and (5) samples from Ciudad Juárez
   municipal wells.

   The mountain and mountain front samples along the Sacramento Mountains
   (group 1) cluster mostly as Ca-HCO3-SO4  and Ca-Cl-SO4  waters, except
   for ground waters high in the Sacramento Mountains which are Ca-HCO3
   ground waters. Ground waters with greater than 1,000 mg/L TDS have a
   Ca-Cl-SO4  signature, and ground waters with less than 1,000 mg/L TDS
   have a Ca-HCO3-SO4  signature.

   The mountain and mountain front samples in group 2 are Ca-HCO3  and
   mixed cation-HCO3-SO4  type ground waters with TDS less than 1,000
   mg/L. Eastward along the basin floor, ground waters have a strong
   Na-Cl-SO4  and mixed cation-SO4-Cl signature and salinities mostly
   greater than 10,000 mg/L (Plate 1). The high-TDS ground waters are just
   south of Alkali Flat, a gypsum playa, and are drawn from earlier
   gypsum-playa deposits (USBR, 1984). These hydrochemical signatures are
   commonly observed where evaporite minerals are dissolved in great
   quantity.

   Along the Franklin Mountains are dilute, Na-HCO3  and Na-HCO3-Cl type
   ground waters (group 3). Chloride increasingly becomes a dominant anion
   basinward of this mountain recharge area.

   Down gradient from group 3 wells, samples from group 4 wells suggest
   continued hydrochemical evolution. Group 4 ground waters have higher
   TDS, higher percentages of Cl and SO4, and lower concentrations of
   HCO3  than upgradient waters. These are principally Na-Cl and
   Na-Cl-SO4  ground waters. TDS is usually less than 1,000 mg/L just east
   of the Franklin Mountains and is generally greater than 1,000 mg/L
   along the axis of the basin.

   Group 5 samples were collected from Ciudad Juárez municipal wells.
   Ground waters are Ca-Na-mixed anion to Na-Cl-SO4  type ground waters
   with salinities less than 1,000 mg/L TDS. Ca-Na dominated waters are
   located at distances from the river, and Na-dominated waters are
   commonly found near the Rio Grande.

       Historical Water Quality Trends (general inorganic constituents)

   Chloride has increased over time in many of the municipal wells in El
   Paso and Ciudad Juárez (Figure 11). The chloride/water-level
   hydrographs do not show a perceptible pattern of increasing chloride
   with respect to location, although a clear pattern is shown for
   salinization of wells that have had significant long-term drawdowns.
   Chloride now exceeds 250 mg/L in several of the wells in the area
   (Figure 11).

   Hydrochemical graphs shown in time series indicate how the overall
   chemistry of water collected from some wells in the Hueco Bolson has
   changed with time (Figure 12). Samples derived from 49-05-503 indicate
   that the well has experienced increasing chlorinity and little change
   in the concentration of other ions (Figure 12). The well screen is 110
   to 174 m beneath land surface. Samples taken from 49-13-610 indicate
   that the chemistry from the well has had substantial increases in
   sulfate, sodium, and chloride. The well screen is between 88 and 229 m
   beneath land surface at the well. Samples taken from 49-22-408 have
   changed the most with respect to TDS, and had a marked upward trend in
   concentration of sodium and chloride (Figure 12). This well is located
   near the Rio Grande and is screened between 105 and 162 m. JMAS-15, a
   Ciudad Juárez municipal well, has seen moderate increases in most ions,
   especially sulfate and chloride. JMAS-39 has had even greater increases
   in ions, especially bicarbonate, sulfate, sodium, and chloride. JMAS-43
   has had an especially large increase in the concentration of sulfate
   since 1973.

                          SOUTHEASTERN HUECO AQUIFER

                              Location and Extent

   The southeastern Hueco Bolson is separated geographically from the
   Hueco-Tularosa Bolson at the El Paso/Hudspeth County line (Figure 13).
   A southeast trending linear feature, the bolson extends for 88 km from
   the El Paso/Hudspeth County line to its southeastern limit at Indian
   Hot Springs. The bolson is bounded on the north by the Finlay, Malone,
   and Quitman Mountains and Diablo Plateau. The Sierra de San Ignacio,
   Sierra de El Almagorsa, Sierra de San Jose Del Prisco, Sierra de Las
   Vacas, and Sierra de Carrizalillo define its southern boundary (Figure
   13). Total surface area of the southeastern Hueco Bolson is 2,150 km².
   Approximately 61% of its land area is in the United States.

   North of the river, the floor of the bolson slopes toward the
   southwest, from elevations of 1,400 to 1,100 m near the Diablo Plateau
   escarpment and Quitman Mountains to elevations of 1,080 to 1,005 m
   along the Rio Grande. South of the river, the floor of the bolson
   slopes from elevations of 1,356 to 1,250 m along mountain fronts to the
   Rio Grande. The Rio Grande is the only perennial river between county
   line and Indian Hot Springs. A few springs in the mountains provide
   localized flows and seeps, but most surface flows in the highlands are
   ephemeral and are focused at arroyos which carry water only after heavy
   rainfall.

   Saturated rocks in the highlands are recharged by precipitation (Figure
   14). The Cenozoic basin fill, in turn, is recharged partially from
   Cretaceous and Tertiary rocks by cross-formational flow (Kreitler and
   others, 1986). That the interconnected bedrock-and-basin fill aquifers
   form an integrated flow system requires definition of aquifer
   nomenclature. Herein the term "southeastern Hueco aquifer" refers to
   the saturated bolson and interconnected bedrock units that flank and
   underlie the southeastern Hueco Bolson. Ground-water divides in the
   mountains and plateaus define the limits of basinward recharge areas
   and the geographical limits of the aquifer (Figure 13).

                  Basin geometry and Rock and Sediment Types

   The oldest principal hydrostratigraphic units in the southeastern Hueco
   aquifer are the Cretaceous carbonate and clastic rocks (Figure 14) that
   are exposed in the highlands and lie uncomformably beneath the bolson
   sediments (Fisher and Mullican, 1990). Data are insufficient to
   determine if these consolidated rocks act as a single
   hydrostratigraphic unit or as a series of discontinuous and poorly
   interconnected hydrogeologic strata (Fisher and Mullican, 1990). The
   extensive tectonic history of the region and intense faulting,
   fracturing, and folding of Cretaceous strata may suggest that the rocks
   act as a heterogeneous, interconnected double continuum media with one
   continuum representing weakly-to-strongly interconnected fractures and
   the other representing the porous rock matrix. Evidence of extensive
   karstification of Cretaceous rocks is lacking in this area although
   Permian rocks to the northeast, in the Dell City area, show
   considerable karstification in outcrop and core.

   The Cenozoic basin-fill sediments, which make up the second major
   water-bearing unit (de la O Carreno, 1957; Mullican and Senger, 1992)
   consist of minor sand lenses interstratified in a matrix of clay and
   silty-clays. Depositional environments ranged from alluvial fans to
   ephemeral lakes and saline playas (Gustavson, 1990). Vertical offset by
   Basin and Range faults and tabular and lenticular geometries of sand,
   silt, and clay deposits create significant intrastratigraphic
   discontinuities (de la O Carreno, 1957; Geo Fimex, 1970; Fisher and
   Mullican, 1990).

   The thickness of the basin fill decreases from as much as 2,600 m at
   the El Paso/Hudspeth County line to an infinitesimal thickness where
   the bolson thins out near Indian Hot Springs (Collins and Raney, 1991).
   Saturated bolson fill is principally the lower basin fill series. The
   lower basin fill is mostly lacustrine clay, bedded gypsum, and minor
   sand, silt, and clay from both alluvial fans and local fluvial deposits
   (Geo Fimex, 1970; Collins and Raney, 1991). The upper basin fill
   series, a second lithologic unit, is thin and contains little water
   east of the El Paso/Hudspeth County line. The upper basin fill deposits
   were formed in alluvial fan, fluvial, and lacustrine systems and are
   composed of sand and gravel and minor silt and clay. They are separated
   from the lower basin fill series by an uncomformable contact as much as
   2.5 m.y. old (Vanderhill, 1986).

   These trends are shown by the electrical resistivity cross section B -
   B' in Mexico (Figure 15). Vertical electrical soundings performed
   parallel to Rio Grande showed that aquifer resistivities are up to 100
   ohm-m only in the upper 50 meters of bolson fill, which are mostly
   unsaturated materials in the region south of the Rio Grande floodplain
   (Figure 15). At depths between 100 and 500 meters, the electrical
   resistivity values are usually less than 5 ohm-m. Such low values imply
   clay-dominated strata, or strata saturated with slightly to moderately
   saline pore fluids (de la O Carreno, 1958; Dobrin, 1976; Kearey and
   Brooks, 1984). Resisitivty increases to 8 to 10 ohm-m between 500 and
   1,000 m, and then increases to greater than 40 to 50 ohm-m between 800
   and 1,000 m, suggesting bedrock of probable Cretaceous age.

   The Quaternary alluvium and terrace deposits were formed by deposition
   by the Rio Grande. These deposits and their hydrogeologic
   characteristics are discussed in the next section, entitled "Rio Grande
   Aquifer."

                                 Water Levels

   North of the Rio Grande, the regional potentiometric surface map shows
   high hydraulic heads and ground-water divides along the Diablo Plateau,
   Finlay Mountains, and Quitman Mountains (Figure 16). Areas of high head
   in the mountains and plateaus define focal points of recharge in the
   southeast Hueco aquifer. Hydraulic head gradients in the Cretaceous and
   other bedrock strata are as much as 0.07 along ground-water divides and
   are as little as 0.04 along mountains fronts. Hydraulic gradients in
   the bolson fill are about 0.008.

   South of the Rio Grande, the potentiometric surface slopes to the river
   from high topographic elevations along mountain fronts. Peak elevations
   of the mountain ranges probably mark the location of ground-water
   divides. Springs flow at high elevations from the mountains in Mexico.
   These probably discharge from locally perched flow systems that do not
   define hydraulic head in the zone of regional saturation. Data are not
   adequate to define regional hydraulic heads beneath these mountains.
   Hydraulic gradients south of the Rio Grande are about 0.01 to 0.03.

   Depth to ground water in the southeastern Hueco aquifer is highly
   variable. The depths measured to the regional water table in Cretaceous
   rocks varied from 23 to 191 m, except at Thaxton Spring where ground
   water flows at land surface at the Diablo Plateau escarpment. Depth to
   ground-water in the basin fill was measured between 28 and 146 m
   (Mullican and Senger, 1992). Depth to ground water beneath mountain
   ranges that bound the southeastern Hueco Bolson in Mexico is unknown.

   The southeastern Hueco aquifer can almost be considered undeveloped,
   especially north of the Rio Grande. Low capacity domestic and livestock
   wells are used to satisfy the needs of the local population and
   livestock industry. Water-level data in time series are not available
   in the southeastern Hueco aquifer.

                Water Quality (general inorganic constituents)

   A stiff diagram (Plate 1) illustrates general water quality in the
   southeastern Hueco aquifer. Total dissolved solids are typically
   greater than 1,000 mg/L in the mountains, increasing to as much as
   4,000 mg/L in the bolson. Ground water chemistry in the Rio Grande
   aquifer is discussed independently in the next section.

   The hydrochemical facies (Back, 1966) of southeastern Hueco aquifer
   ground waters on the United States side of the study area (Figure 17)
   varies from Ca-Mg-HCO3  and Na-SO4  along the Diablo Plateau to
   Na-SO4-Cl beneath the floor of the basin. In Mexico, waters vary from
   Ca-Mg-HCO3  beneath the Sierra de San Ignacio, Sierra de El Almagorsa,
   and the Sierra de San Jose Del Prisco to Ca-Mg-SO4-Cl waters beneath
   the basin floor (Figure 17). Typically these ground waters have TDS
   that vary between 1,000 and 3,500 mg/L. Indian Hot Springs is an
   exception; Na-Cl water with TDS higher than 7,000 mg/L discharges from
   Cretaceous carbonate and clastic rocks at the hot springs.

                              RIO GRANDE AQUIFER

                              Location and Extent

   Near the southeastern limit of the Mesilla Valley, the Rio Grande is
   constricted between the Cerro de Muleros and the Franklin Mountains in
   a canyon, the El Paso narrows. Here the canyon is about 450 m wide.
   Rock cut terraces are visible on the south side of the river that rise
   a few hundred feet above the modern channel.

   Southeast of the El Paso narrows, the Rio Grande flows across a broad
   alluvial floodplain that has incised the surface of the Hueco Bolson
   (Figure 18). Near El Paso/Ciudad Juárez, the "El Paso/Juárez Valley" is
   about 9.7 to 13 km wide and is a little more than 60 m deep (USBR,
   1973). The valley trends nearly 145 km east, southeast to Indian Hot
   Springs where the valley again is constricted in a narrow between the
   Sierra de la Cieneguilla and the Quitman Mountains. The valley deepens
   along its southeasterly trend and is almost 100 m deep near Fabens, 48
   km below the El Paso narrows. The valley wall is disrupted frequently
   by arroyos that incise the Hueco Bolson and floodplain surfaces. Our
   analysis extends to a few kilometers downstream of Fort Quitman, where
   the Rio Grande floodplain becomes very narrow (Figure 18).

                                Sediment Types

   The Rio Grande alluvial floodplain in the El Paso/Juárez Valley is
   underlain by a complex mosaic of braided and meandering river deposits.
   Formed during alternating periods of scour and fill in the late
   Quaternary Period, the river deposits consist of irregularly
   distributed gravels, sands, clay, and silt lenses and beds (de la O
   Carreno, 1957, 1958; USBR, 1973; Alvarez and Buckner, 1980). Lenses and
   beds are highly irregular in extent and thickness and correlations
   across short distances are difficult or impossible to make with
   available data.

   Alluvial fill consists of reworked bolson fill material, eroded
   bedrock, and extrabasinal sediments transported by the Rio Grande from
   its headwaters in New Mexico and Colorado to the El Paso/Juárez Valley.
   Total thickness of the Rio Grande alluvium is reported to average about
   64 m in the United States (IBWC, 1989). Average thickness is about 52 m
   in Mexico (IBWC, 1989). Saturated alluvium thicknesses average 57 and
   45 m respectively in the American and Mexican portions of the alluvial
   floodplain, El Paso/Juárez Valley (IBWC, 1989).

   Windblown sand and silt deposits overlie the Rio Grande alluvium at
   several localities. Where dunes and other windblown deposits are
   present, they often border the outer margins of the Rio Grande
   floodplain. Most dunes are less than 4.5 m thick (IBWC, 1989).
   Windblown deposits are surfaces for infiltration and recharge because
   they are well sorted and sparsely vegetated.

                                   Recharge

   Recharge to the Rio Grande aquifer along irrigated reaches is due
   primarily to infiltration of surface water that has been applied to
   irrigable crops (Figure 19). Major ion data shows clear evidence of
   direct recharge due to surface irrigation. Texas State well #48-41-624,
   for example, had increasing salinities between 1986 and 1988 (Figure
   20). When the well was resampled in 1989, total dissolved solids had
   decreased substantially. A chemical trilinear plot (Figure 20)
   indicates dilution of salt-laden ground water due to mixing with dilute
   Rio Grande water during the 1989 irrigation season.

   Recharge also occurs to some extent by direct seepage from canal and
   river channels, although lining of the Rio Grande channel along the
   Chamizal zone limits recharge by the river locally. Other sources of
   recharge to the Rio Grande alluvium include direct precipitation on the
   floodplain surface, seepage from irrigation canals and drains,
   infiltration of runoff along arroyos, and recharge from
   cross-formational flow with the Hueco Bolson (Figure 19).
   Quantification of the amounts and spatial variability of recharge to
   the alluvial aquifer is infeasible with available data.

                                   Discharge

   Ground water is discharged from the Rio Grande alluvium by irrigation
   pumping, by subsurface seepage to the Rio Grande, by leakage to drains,
   and by cross-formational leakage to the Hueco Bolson (Figure 19). The
   principal mode of discharge varies along the floodplain. Along the
   heavily urbanized Chamizal zone, discharge occurs primarily by
   cross-formational leakage from the alluvium to the Hueco Bolson where
   storage in the Rio Grande aquifer is depleted by municipal heavy
   pumping in the bolson aquifer. From Chamizal zone to the El
   Paso/Hudspeth County line, discharge occurs by irrigation pumping and
   by leakage to the many drains which help to maintain nearly constant
   water-levels in the Rio Grande aquifer. From the county line to Fort
   Quitman, discharge occurs by irrigation pumping, by seepage to the Rio
   Grande, and by leakage to a few drains. Phreatophytes account for some
   discharge along the Rio Grande channel and canal laterals. These
   channels and canals, in general, are kept relatively free of
   phreatophytes west of Fort Quitman.

                       Ground-Water Extraction Estimates

   Historical and recent ground-water extraction quantities are not
   available for the American portion of the Rio Grande aquifer. Estimates
   are available in Mexico. Quantities include total extraction amounts
   for wells maintained by CNA, and total extraction quantities for wells
   maintained by other entities. Figure 21 provides the totals for the
   years 1989 - 1995. Pumping is greatest between March and August of
   these years.

            Current Water Quality (general inorganic constituents)

   Few American ground-water data are available for the Rio Grande aquifer
   after 1979 below the El Paso narrows. Maps present historical data for
   the United States portion of the Rio Grande aquifer. Data are current
   in Mexico (1993 - 1994).

   Stiff diagrams indicate sodium-sulfate waters in El Paso County (Figure
   22). Below the El Paso/Hudspeth County line, chloride increasingly
   becomes the dominant anion in the cation/anion pairing (Figure 23).
   Mexican ground waters follow the same general trend, but show greater
   scatter in the segment of the floodplain across from Hudspeth County
   (Figures 22 and 23). Ground-water samples frequently were collected in
   and beneath arroyo deposits that comformably overlie earlier alluvial
   floodplain deposits in Mexico. Arroyos act as recharge areas after
   episodic precipitation and runoff events and ground-water chemistries
   have wide scatter due to commingling of dilute runoff waters and older
   alluvial ground waters.

   Total dissolved solids in El Paso County vary substantially, but fall
   mostly within the 1,000 to 3,000 mg/L range (Figure 22). Total
   dissolved solids are higher in alluvial deposits in Hudspeth County,
   falling mostly within the 3,000 to 6,000 mg/L range (Figure 23). In
   both regions, total dissolved solids are lower in the Mexican part of
   the floodplain aquifer due to mixing of dilute runoff waters with
   older, higher salinity waters. This is an artifact of well locations
   closer to arroyos on the floodplain.

                           Rio Grande Water Quality

   Historical monthly water quality and streamflow data show changes in
   river water quality and discharge between El Paso/Ciudad Juárez and
   Fort Quitman (Figure 24). Spatial changes in sodium, sulfate, chloride,
   and total dissolved solids for most months indicate appreciable decline
   in river water quality downstream. Data indicate that water quality
   improves when discharge is high during the irrigation season. This is
   an artifact of dilution by copious quantities of dilute reservoir water
   and by stagnation of saline baseflow as a result of high river stage.
   Grouping of analyses fall into distinct clusters (Figures 25 & 26). The
   "El Paso" and "Fort Quitman" clusters correspond generally to
   evolutionary trends in the Rio Grande aquifer in and across from El
   Paso and Hudspeth County respectively (Figure 27). Despite wide scatter
   in Rio Grande aquifer data (Figure 27), the analyses show a clear
   relationship between river and aquifer water quality between El Paso
   and Fort Quitman. Results imply ample fluid exchange and salt recycling
   between the river and aquifer.

                               Historical Change

   Water quality data are too limited to assess long term changes in the
   chemistry of the Rio Grande aquifer. Most of the water quality data
   were collected between 1970 and 1980, an inadequate time interval to
   assess historical change.

   An obvious relationship was shown between salinities and chemistries in
   the Rio Grande and Rio Grande aquifer between El Paso and Fort Quitman
   (compare Figures 25, 26, and 27). Historical water quality data from
   the Rio Grande potentially may be used as proxy data for temporal
   changes in the Rio Grande aquifer along upstream and downstream
   segments of the floodplain. Data at the Fort Quitman gage station
   clearly indicate increasing salinities in the Rio Grande since 1936
   (Figure 28). If these are suitable proxy data for historical changes in
   aquifer water quality, then water in the aquifer has been degraded
   profoundly during the period of record.

                                RECOMMENDATIONS

   In establishing this binational report and data library, a significant
   amount of data was acquired, verified, and evaluated. Certain data were
   incomplete and in some areas information were lacking. The following
   recommendations are intended to recognize specific data inadequacies,
   and also to suggest future projects and activities that might enhance
   our understanding of the local aquifers.
     * Wells in Mexico, especially those in the Rio Grande/Rio Bravo
       alluvium, should be accurately located using GPS equipment. Well
       head elevations should be determined within an accuracy at least
       equal to those on the U.S. side (U.S. based on five-foot
       topographic map contour intervals). This will allow for better
       regional mapping of ground-water movement.
     * Better estimates of irrigation pumpage volumes should be made in
       the U.S., especially in Texas.
     * The thickness of basin fill, storage coefficients, and quantities
       of fresh and slightly saline ground water in the rural parts of the
       study area are not well known. Further studies should be conducted
       to derive better stratigraphic data and better estimates of
       recoverable ground water in storage.
     * Computer ground-water flow models of the Hueco Bolson aquifer
       currently being developed by Mexico and the U.S. should be
       supported.
     * More data is needed to determine ground-water ages, ground-water
       residence times, recharge areas, and areas of cross-formational
       flow. The quality and reliability of the ground-water flow models
       being developed by the U.S. and Mexico will be enhanced by these
       data.
     * Mechanisms of salinization of heavily developed parts of the Hueco
       Bolson are not completely understood. Several factors may be
       responsible for salinization, including brackish water upconing,
       downconing, leakage along the annular spaces of wells, lateral
       migration, leakage from mud interbeds, and freshwater depletion.
       Studies to determine the precise mechanisms of salinization would
       help the City of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez employ pumping schemes
       for reduced salinity.
     * Some information that Mexico had generated prior to about 1990 was
       available only in hard copy. This data should be converted to
       electronic files.
     * To continue with the El Paso/Ciudad Juárez area studies, it is
       recommended that a formal procedure and timetable for binational
       ground-water data exchange should be established. This data should
       be recognized for its authenticity by both Mexican and U.S.
       governments, and should be in an electronic format adaptable for
       GIS applicants. It is important that this data be made easily
       accessible.
     * A binational aquifer water-level and water-quality monitoring
       network should be established. Monitoring frequency and procedural
       protocol should be agreed upon and subsequent data should be shared
       on a continuous real-time basis.
     * The binational technical work group established for this project
       should extend this work, so as to include more input on the
       hydrogeologic properties and processes operative in the
       transboundary aquifers, and to seek technical solutions to common
       ground-water problems.
   _______________________________________________________________________

                                  REFERENCES

   Alvarez, H.J., and Buckner, A.W., 1980, Ground-water development in the
   El Paso region, Texas, with emphasis on the resources of the lower El
   Paso Valley: Texas Department of Water Resources Report 246, 346 p.

   Back, W., 1966, Hydrochemical facies and ground-water flow patterns in
   northern part of the Atlantic Coastal Plain: U.S. Geological Survey
   Professional Paper 498-A, 42 pp.

   C.I.E.P.S., Engineers, Consultants, and Planners, Mexico City, D.F.,
   1970, Study of the Technical, Economic, Social, and Financial
   Feasibility of Rehabilitation of the Irrigation District, Juárez
   Valley, Chihuahua: Translated by the Ralph McElroy Company, Inc.,
   Austin, Texas, under contract with the Texas Water Development Board,
   1975, various pagination.

   Garcia, R.A., 1967, Aerial photo geohydrologic study, Juárez Valley,
   Chihuahua: Ingenieria y Geotecnia, S.A., Translated by Gunnar Brune,
   Texas Water Development Board, 1975, 19 p.

   Collins, E.W., and Raney, J.A., 1991, Tertiary and Quaternary Structure
   and Paleotectonics of the Hueco Basin, Trans-Pecos Texas and Chihuahua,
   Mexico: The University of Texas at Austin, Bureau of Economic Geology
   Geological Circular 91-2, 44 p.

   Davis, M.E., and Leggat, E.R., 1967, Preliminary results of the
   investigation of the saline-water resources in the Hueco bolson near El
   Paso, Texas: U.S. Geological Survey open-file report, 27 p.

   de la O Carreno, A., 1957, Preliminary geohydrological study of the
   Juárez Valley and surrounding areas, State of Chihuahua: Mexico City,
   D.F., 101 p.

   de la O Carreno, A., 1958, Investigation of subsurface geohydrologic
   conditions at Juárez, Chihuahua, applying electrical geophysics: Mexico
   City, D.F., 55 p.

   Dobrin, M.B., 1976, Introduction to Geophysical Prospecting:
   McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, 630 p.

   Fisher, R.S, and Mullican, W.F., III, 1990, Integration of ground-water
   and vadose-zone geochemistry to investigate hydrochemical evolution: a
   case study in arid lands of the northern Chihuahuan Desert,
   Trans-Pecos, Texas: The University of Texas at Austin Bureau of
   Economic Geology Geological Circular 90-5, 36 p.

   Geo Fimex, S.A., 1970, Valle De Juárez, Chihuahua, Estudio Geofisico:
   Sociedad de Reconocimientos Geotecnicos Del Grupo S.R.G., Coyocan,
   Mexico, 16 p.

   Gustavson, T.C., 1990, Regional stratigraphy and geomorphic evolution
   of the southern Hueco Bolson, west Texas and Chihuahua, Mexico, in
   Hydrogeology of Trans-Pecos Texas, Bureau of Economic Geology Guidebook
   25, p 27 - 35.

   International Boundary and Water Commission, 1989, Ground water
   conditions in El Paso/Juárez Valley: Hydraulics Branch, Planning
   Division, 43 p.

   Kearey, P., and Brooks, M., 1984, An Introduction to Geophysical
   Exploration: Blackwell Book Co., Oxford, 296 p.

   Kreitler, C.W., Raney, J.A., Nativ, R., Collins, E.W., Mullican, W.F.,
   III, Gustavson, T.C., and Henry, C.D., 1986, Preliminary geologic and
   hydrologic studies of selected areas in Culberson and Hudspeth
   Counties, Texas: final report for the Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste
   Disposal Authority under contract no. IAC(86-87)0818, 184 p.

   Lee Wilson and Associates, Inc., 1986, Water supply alternatives for El
   Paso: Unpublished consultant's report prepared for the El Paso Water
   Utilities Public Service Board, 75 p.

   Meyer, W.R., 1976, Digital model for simulated effects of ground-water
   pumping in the Hueco Bolson, El Paso area, Texas, New Mexico, and
   Mexico: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report
   58-75, 31 p.

   McLean, J.S., 1970, Saline Ground-Water Resources of the Tularosa
   Basin, New Mexico: U.S. Department of the Interior, Office of Saline
   Water, Research and Development Progress Report No. 561.

   Mullican,W.F., III, and Senger, R.K., 1992, Hydrogeologic
   investigations of deep ground-water flow in the Chihuahuan Desert,
   Texas: The University of Texas at Austin, Bureau of Economic Geology,
   Report of Investigations No. 205, 60 p.

   Orr, B.R., and Risser, D.W., 1992, Geohydrology and potential effects
   of development of freshwater resources in the northern part of the
   Hueco Bolson, Dona Ana and Otero Counties, New Mexico, and El Paso
   County, Texas: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations
   Report 91-4082, 92 p.

   Sandeen, W.M., 1954, Geology of the Tularosa Basin, New Mexico, in
   Guidebook of southeastern New Mexico: New Mexico Geological Society,
   5th Field Conference, p. 81-88.

   Slichter, C.S., 1905, Observations on the ground waters of Rio Grande
   Valley: U.S. Geological Survey Water Supply Paper 141,

   Strain, W.S., 1966, Blancan mammalian fauna and Pleistocene formations,
   Hudspeth County, Texas: University of Texas at Austin, Memorial Museum
   Bulletin 10, 55 p.

   U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, 1973, Water Resources of El Paso County,
   Texas: Rio Grande Project, New Mexico - Texas Project Office, El Paso,
   Texas, 97 p.

   U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, 1984, Tularosa Basin Water and Energy
   Study, New Mexico, Appraisal Report: Southwest Regional Office,
   Amarillo, Texas, various pagination.

   Vanderhill, J.B., 1986, Lithostratigraphy, vertebrate paleontology, and
   magnetostratigraphy of Pleistocene sediments in the Mesilla Basin, New
   Mexico: The University of Texas at Austin, Ph.D. dissertation, 305 p.

   Wilkins, D.W., 1986, Geohydrology of the southwest alluvial basins
   regional aquifer-systems analysis, parts of Colorado, New Mexico, and
   Texas: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report
   84-4224, 61 p.
   _______________________________________________________________________

                                FIGURE CAPTIONS

   Figure 1. Location of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer, southeastern Hueco
   aquifer, and Rio Grande aquifer in the regional study area.

   Figure 2. Location and extent of the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer in the
   study area.

   Figure 3. Hydrogeologic cross-sections A-A', B-B', and C-C' across the
   Hueco-Tularosa aquifer (lines of sections shown on Figure 2. Basin
   fill/bedrock contacts selected from maps prepared by Davis and Legatt,
   1967, McLean, 1970, and Lee Wilson and Associates, 1981. Cross section
   C-C' modified from Lee Wilson and Associates, 1981).

   Figure 4. Geoelectric cross-section D-D' across the Hueco-Tularosa
   aquifer, northern Chihuahua, Mexico (modified from Geo Fimex, 1970;
   line of section shown on Figure 2).

   Figure 5. Regional potentiometric surface map for the Hueco-Tularosa
   aquifer, illustrating an inset potentiometric surface map for the City
   of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez. Data for the City of El Paso and Ciudad
   Juárez inset diagram gathered in 1994. Other data in less developed and
   undeveloped areas gathered at various times. We assume quasi-steady
   state ground-water flow in undeveloped areas (source of data, Comisión
   Nacional Del Agua; Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento; Instituito
   Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica; Texas Water
   Development Board; U.S. Geological Survey).

   Figure 6. Time series hydrographs for the Hueco-Tularosa aquifer
   (source of data, Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento; Texas Water
   Development Board; U.S. Geological Survey).

   Figure 7. Change in water levels for the City of El Paso - Ciudad
   Juárez area, 1987/1988 to 1992/1993 (source of data, Texas Water
   Development Board; City of El Paso Public Services Board; Junta
   Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento).

   Figure 8. Ground-water pumpage from the Hueco Bolson; 1903 - 1994
   (source of data, City of El Paso Public Services Board).

   Figure 9. Ground-water pumpage from the Hueco Bolson; 1990 - 1994
   (source of data, Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento; City of El Paso
   Public Services Board).

   Figure 10. Piper diagrams illustrating geochemical types for the
   Hueco-Tularosa aquifer (source of data, Comisión Nacional Del Agua;
   Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento; Instituito Nacional de
   Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica; Texas Water Development Board;
   U.S. Geological Survey).

   Figure 11. Comparison of change of chloride concentration in ground
   water with drawdown in City of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez municipal
   water wells (source of data, Texas Water Development Board; Junta
   Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento).

   Figure 12. Time series hydrochemical plots for municipal wells in City
   of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez showing increasing concentrations of major
   elemental constituents in ground water (source of data, Junta Municipal
   de Agua y Saneamiento; Texas Water Development Board).

   Figure 13. Location and extent of the southeastern Hueco aquifer.

   Figure 14. Generalized hydrogeologic cross section A - A' (line of
   section shown in Figure 13. Basin fill/bedrock contact selected from
   maps prepared by Collins and Raney, 1991 and from test-hole logs and
   geophysical logs in the Texas Water Development Board files).

   Figure 15. Geoelectric cross section B - B' across the southeastern
   Hueco aquifer, northern Chihuahua, Mexico (modified from Geo Fimex,
   1970; line of section shown on Figure 13).

   Figure 16. Regional potentiometric surface map for the southeastern
   Hueco aquifer. U.S. data collected 1970 - 1989 and Mexico data
   collected 1982 - 1983. We assume quasi-steady state ground-water flow
   in the southeastern Hueco aquifer, which is mostly undeveloped (source
   of data, Texas Water Development Board; Fisher and Mullican, 1990;
   Comisión Nacional Del Agua; Instituito Nacional de Estadistica,
   Geografia e Informatica).

   Figure 17a. Hydrochemical piper plots for the bedrock (mountain and
   plateau) strata, bolson strata, and Indian Hot Springs in the U.S. part
   of the southeastern Hueco aquifer. Data collected 1986 - 1989. Piper
   plots indicate distinct hydrochemical types for these water bearing
   strata in the southeastern Hueco aquifer (source of data, Fisher and
   Mullican, 1990; Texas Water Development Board).

   Figure 17b. Hydrochemical piper plots for the bedrock (mountain)
   strata, and bolson strata in the Mexican part of the southeastern Hueco
   aquifer. Data collected 1982 - 1983. Piper plots indicate distinct
   hydrochemical types for these water bearing strata in the southeastern
   Hueco aquifer (source of data, Comisión Nacional Del Agua; Instituito
   Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica).

   Figure 18. Location of the Rio Grande aquifer in the study area.

   Figure 19. Major flow components in the Rio Grande aquifer.

   Figure 20. Located adjacent to the Rio Grande, well 48-41-624 had
   increasing total dissolved solids in samples collected between 1986 and
   1988. When the well was resampled in 1989, total dissolved solids had
   decreased substantially. The trilinear plot shows enriched well samples
   (1986-1988), dilute well samples (1989), and Rio Grande samples
   collected in 1989. Results indicate dilution of ground water due to
   mixing with Rio Grande water (source of data, Fisher and Mullican,
   1990).

   Figure 21. Extraction quantities from the Rio Grande aquifer; CNA and
   other wells, 1989 - 1995 (source of data, Comisión Nacional Del Agua).

   Figure 22. Stiff plots show Na-SO4  ground waters with salinities
   usually less than 3,000 mg/L in the Rio Grande aquifer above the El
   Paso/Hudspeth County line (source of data, Texas Water Development
   Board; Comisión Nacional Del Agua).

   Figure 23. Stiff plots show Na-SO4-Cl ground waters with salinities
   usually greater than 3,000 mg/L in the Rio Grande aquifer below the El
   Paso/Hudspeth County line (source of data, Texas Water Development
   Board; Comisión Nacional Del Agua).

   Figure 24a. Diagram comparing water quality and streamflow discharge in
   the Rio Grande at El Paso and Ft Quitman, 1973. Spatial changes in Na,
   SO4, Cl, and TDS for most months indicate appreciable decline in
   surface water quality downstream of El Paso. Water quality improves
   when discharge is high as an artifact of dilution by large quantities
   of dilute reservoir water and by stagnation of saline baseflow as a
   result of high river stage (source of data, IBWC Water Bulletin series
   "Flow of the Rio Grande and Related Data").

   Figure 24b. Diagram comparing water quality and streamflow discharge in
   the Rio Grande at El Paso and Ft Quitman, 1991. Spatial changes in Na,
   SO4, Cl, and TDS for most months indicate appreciable decline in
   surface water quality downstream of El Paso. Water quality improves
   when discharge is high as an artifact of dilution by large quantities
   of dilute reservoir water and by stagnation of saline baseflow as a
   result of high river stage (source of data, IBWC Water Bulletin series
   "Flow of the Rio Grande and Related Data").

   Figure 25. Piper diagrams shown in time series that illustrate surface
   water at the El Paso and Fort Quitman gage stations, January, 1970 -
   1991. Surface water groups into distinct clusters of different
   hydrochemical types at the two gage stations (source of data, IBWC
   Water Bulletin series "Flow of the Rio Grande and Related Data").

   Figure 26. Piper diagrams shown in time series that illustrate surface
   water at the El Paso and Fort Quitman gage stations, July, 1970 - 1991.
   Surface water groups into distinct clusters of different hydrochemical
   types at the two gage stations (source of data, IBWC Water Bulletin
   series "Flow of the Rio Grande and Related Data").

   Figure 27. Piper diagrams for the Rio Grande aquifer in El Paso and
   Hudspeth counties, and adjacent areas in Mexico. U.S. data collected
   1972 - 1979 and Mexico data collected 1993 - 1994. These data indicate
   a clear relationship to surface water quality (Figures 25 and 26) at El
   Paso and Fort Quitman (source of data, Texas Water Development Board;
   Comisión Nacional Del Agua).

   Figure 28. Time series graph of increasing salinities in the Rio Grande
   (source of data, IBWC Water Bulletin series "Flow of the Rio Grande and
   Related Data").
   _______________________________________________________________________



   The figures and tables that complement the Transboundary Aquifers and
   Binational Ground-Water Data Base Report are not available on the
   Internet. The entire report is available at the U.S. International
   Boundary and Water Commission library.

   For further information contact:
   Radu Boghici
   Hydrogeologist
   Texas Water Development Board
   e-mail
   (512)463-6543

    Or Contact:

   Rong Kuo Ph.D.
   Civil Engineer
   (915)832-4747

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                                  International Boundary and Water Commission
                                             United States Section
                                         4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310
                                            El Paso, TX  79902-1441
                                                1-800-262-8857

                    Contact Webmaster
