http://fcf.grc.nasa.gov/pages/research.html

                    Header picture that says FCF Research

   Button bar picture - alternate text links are provided at the bottom of
                                  the page

   Picture showing flames are tall and conical in normal gravity and spherical
   in microgravity COMBUSTION RESEARCH

      Introduction

      Combustion physics—the science of burning—is an important area of study
      and experimentation within NASA, especially at NASA Glenn Research
      Center in Cleveland, Ohio. Visit the Microgravity Combustion website
      for detailed information concerning microgravity combustion research
      and the benefits that will be derived from this research.

      The Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) will enable research to be
      conducted in a microgravity environment on the International Space
      Station (ISS) for longer periods of study than were previously possible
      with Space Shuttle or ground-based experiments.

      The following will describe the experiments that are proposed for study
      in the CIR on the ISS.

      Picture of the CIR Science Utilization

      It is expected that the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) will provide
      most of the required capability with a small amount of unique hardware
      developed for each investigation. When possible, similar investigations
      will be flown at the same time to increase the use of common hardware
      and diagnostics.

      As a way to further reduce the amount of new hardware that needs to be
      supplied for each investigation, a set of three multi-user chamber
      inserts is being designed to support classes of experiments (Reference
      1). Other inserts for singular investigations having requirements not
      able to be met by the multi-user inserts will be developed as resources
      permit.

      Commercial and international investigations will provide their own
      chamber insert or other resources in exchange for use of a multi-user
      insert.

      A total of fifteen flight and flight-definition investigations
      supported by the microgravity science program and one or more
      commercial and international investigations are currently foreseen to
      use the CIR over the first few years of operation.

      The following are links to separate web pages with detailed
      descriptions of the types of combustion research proposed for
      investigation on the Fluids and Combustion Facility:
        * Droplet Combustion
        * Solid Fuel Combustion
        * Gaseous Fuel Combustion

      References

      (1) Otero, O., "Multi-user Hardware Solutions to Combustion Science ISS
      Research," AIAA-2001-5042.

   FLUIDS RESEARCH

   Introduction

   The Microgravity Fluid Physics program currently has four major
   research thrust areas: Complex Fluids, Interfacial Phenomena, Dynamics
   and Instabilities, and Multiphase Flows and Phase Change. There are 94
   ground-based and 16 flight/flight definition Principal Investigators
   (PIs) conducting experimental research as well as developing the
   theoretical framework for understanding the effects of gravity on
   processes involving fluids. Work in complex fluids covers colloids,
   foams, granular media, rheology of non-Newtonian fluids, and emulsions
   and suspensions. Interfacial phenomena includes liquid-vapor interface
   configurations, contact line dynamics, capillary driven flows and shape
   stability and break-up of liquid bridges and drops. Dynamics and
   instabilities include thermocapillary and thermosolutal flows, biofluid
   mechanics, geological fluid flows, pattern formation, and
   electrokinetics and electrochemistry. Multiphase flow and phase change
   include flow patterns in liquid-vapor/gas flows in microgravity,
   nucleate boiling and its control using acoustic and electric fields in
   microgravity, and flows of gas-solid and liquid-solid mixtures in
   microgravity.

   The near elimination of buoyancy and sedimentation in inhomogeneous
   fluids in the low-gravity environment of the International Space
   Station (ISS) allows scientists to study the behavior and properties of
   simple and complex fluids under near weightlessness. While these
   conditions can be achieved in free fall facilities such as the zero
   gravity facility at NASA’s Glenn Research Center, for most fluids
   experiments they cannot be sustained for sufficiently long times. In
   some cases, for example in the study of colloidal crystals, near
   weightless conditions permit the fabrication of ordered colloidal
   structures that cannot be fabricated on earth, or that form but
   collapse under their own weight under terrestrial conditions. Such
   studies are relevant to emerging and future technologies. Such
   structures are the basis for the development of photonic band gap
   materials for application to information technology. In the study of
   foams, bubbly liquids and granular materials, low gravity conditions
   provide ideal conditions for the characterization of materials property
   and behavior in the absence of gravity, an important part of the
   development and testing of theories that describe these rheologically
   complex fluids. Processes that involve these kinds of fluids are
   important in many earthbound industrial settings, but also play a key
   role in the design and operation of many spacecraft systems crucial to
   the success of human and robotic exploration and exploitation of space.

   NASA Glenn Research Center is in the process of designing a Fluids and
   Combustion Facility (FCF) to be located in the Laboratory Module of the
   ISS. This facility will not only accommodate multiple users but also
   will allow a broad range of fluid physics and transport phenomena
   experiments to be conducted in a cost-effective manner. The FCF
   consists of three modules: Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR), Fluids
   Integrated Rack (FIR), and Science Augmentation Rack (SAR). For a brief
   overview of these racks, also visit the FCF Overview page. A detailed
   discussion of FCF capabilities may be found in Corban and Winsa (1998)
   (Reference 1). Most of the fluid physics and transport phenomena
   experiments planned to for the ISS will be conducted in the FIR of the
   FCF. A detailed discussion of the FIR and its capabilities are
   presented in Hill and Saavedra 2000 (Reference 2). In order to
   accommodate the research needs of multiple PIs with minimum cost, NASA
   has developed a Light Microscopy Module (LMM) that is currently
   planning to accommodate the experiments of four PIs. A description of
   LMM is included in an accompanying paper (Lant and Resnick, 2000)
   (Reference 3). In addition to FCF, the Microgravity Science Glovebox
   (MSG) and Expedited Processing of Experiments to Space Station
   (EXPRESS) rack will also be available for conducting fluid physics
   experiments. All of these facilities are designed to accommodate
   multiple users, and, thus, maximize the scientific utilization of the
   Space Station.

   Science Utilization

   The following are links to separate web pages with detailed
   descriptions of the types of fluids research proposed for investigation
   on the Fluids and Combustion Facility:
     * Complex Fluids
     * Interfacial Phenomena
     * Dynamics and Instabilities
     * Multiphase Flows and Phase Change

   References

   (1) Corban, R. and Winsa, E., "Fluids and Combustion Facility- Fluids
   Integrated Rack", in 36th Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit, Reno,
   NV, AIAA-98-0258, January, 1998.

   (2) Hill, Myron and Saavedra, S., "A Summary of Capabilities and
   Operations for the Fluids Combustion Facility Fluids Integrated Rack –
   First Four Experiments," in these proceedings STAIF 2000, Albuquerque,
   NM, January 2000.

   (3) Lant, C. and Resnick, A., "Multifunction Light Microscopy Module
   for the International Space Station", in these proceedings STAIF 2000,
   Albuquerque, NM, January 2000.

                                  [bar.jpg]

      FCF Home | Overview | Program | Project | Research | Multimedia |
                   Outreach | Links | Contacts | Site Map

                Please submit your comments and suggestions!

    Website designed and administered by Debbi Sedlak of Zin Technologies

      NASA Technical Monitor is Bob Corban of the Microgravity Science
                                  Division

                           NASA Privacy Statement

                        Date last maintained: 1/29/02
