http://vesuvius.jsc.nasa.gov/pao/researchers/

                            Johnson Space Center

            Earth Photos
                         Biomechanics
                                      Life Support
                                                    LPI
                                                           X-38
               NSBRI
                        Astromaterials
                                      Microgravity
                                                  Students
                                                          Faculty

                 [left.gif] ResearchersSHORTCUTS [right.gif]

    Welcome to Research Shortcuts for Universities, Federal Agencies and
     private sector companies. NASA's Johnson Space Center leads a wide
    variety of research activities related to the United States' civilian
   program in Human Exploration and Development of Space, or HEDS. This is
   an enterprise managed by NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. through
    the Office of Space Flight (Code M). The Research Shortcuts page will
      link you with specific areas of scientific research, engineering
     research and technology development at the Johnson Space Center and
     provide related links to other NASA Centers and additional research
                               opportunities.

   Johnson Space Center is one of four NASA field centers affiliated with
    the NASA HEDS Enterprise. Descriptions of other NASA Enterprises and
   their affiliated NASA centers may be found at the NASA Headquarters Web
                                    site.

    Information related to NASA Research Announcements, Announcements of
        Opportunity, Cooperative Agreement Notices and other research
    solicitations may also be found on this page. There are also specific
      links for University students and faculty. How this research and
    technology development is currently planned to integrate into future
       human spaceflight exploration programs is discussed in the NASA
      Headquarters "Threads" document, the life sciences Critical Path
                  Roadmap and the JSC Implementation Plan.

                               [midnsbri.gif]

   NASA JSC Bioastronautics Research and the National Space Biomedical
   Research Institute - The mission of the JSC Space and Life Sciences
   Directorate is to be the world's leader in understanding the space
   frontier and the opportunities, capabilities, and limitations of humans
   living and working on that frontier. "JSC manages human research for
   the NASA Headquarters Office of Biological and Physical Research, which
   includes the National Space Biomedical Research Institute, or NSBRI.
   The NSBRI combines the basic research capabilities of some of the
   nation's leading biomedical research laboratories and universities with
   the operational and applied research of NASA to understand the effects
   of the space flight environment on the human body and to provide
   "countermeasures" which support future human exploration for both men
   and women.
                               [marsland.jpg]

    Advanced Life Support Program - When humans explore the solar system
   and spend long periods of time in space and on planetary surfaces, they
   will continue to need food, water, and air. For long duration missions
    it will not be economically feasible to re-supply these 'consumables'
    from Earth. Humans will need to develop systems to purify their water
   supply, purify their air with oxygen recovered from carbon dioxide, and
     produce food. This will mean that consumables must be recycled from
    wastes (air, water, and solid wastes) for continued re-use and crops
      must be grown for food. Such a system is called an advanced life
   support system and versions of it must be developed to operate on space
               transportation vehicles and planetary surfaces.
                                [Kilauea.jpg]
       Astronaut Hand-held Earth Views - The NASA Space Shuttle Earth
   Observations Photography database of over 250,000 images is a national
                                 treasure .
           Frequently Asked Questions About Astronaut Photographs
     Office of Earth Sciences - The data base of the Space Shuttle Earth
     Observations Project (SSEOP, for short) records the location and a
     description of over 250 000 of the astronaut photographs of Earth.
                                 [NBLab.jpg]
     Anthropometry and Biomechanics - The Anthropometry and Biomechanics
     Facility, or ABF, is part of the Space Human Factors Laboratory and
   Flight Crew Support Division. ABF personnel are engaged in research and
   evaluation of flight tools, procedures, and systems with an emphasis on
    safety and performance. In addition to laboratory tools, research is
   conducted during reduced gravity parabolas of the KC-135 aircraft. The
     Space Shuttle and International Space Station Programs expanded the
    envelopes of human experience in space. These were the first programs
     to include a wide range of sizes for both men and women, including
   large variations in the ISS International Partner populations -- Japan,
       Europe, Canada and Russia. Future research will build upon this
         experience and provide for more space exploration options.
                               [Internal.gif]

   Astromaterials Research and Exploration Science - JSC is the Center of
   Excellence for astromaterials curation and research. Its mission
   includes conducting frontier, world-class research in Earth, space and
   planetary sciences and communicating NASA science to professional
   peers, to educators and to the public. JSC has curatorial
   responsibility for over 700 pounds of lunar rocks collected during the
   Apollo missions and meteoroids collected on the earth, which originated
   from Mars.
                                 [moon.gif]
    Lunar and Planetary Institute - The Lunar and Planetary Institute, or
   LPI, is a NASA-funded institute in Houston, Texas, devoted to studying
    the solar system and sharing the excitement of space exploration with
      the public. The site contains information for teachers, students,
    scientists, and members of the public interested in the planets. LPI
         also sponsors the HEDS-UP program for university students.
                                 [x-38.jpg]
   X-38: Crew Return Vehicle - The X-38 is a prototype rescue vehicle that
       could provide astronauts on the International Space Station an
      immediate return home in an emergency. It builds upon technology
     generated in the 1970s and combines it with the latest in avionics,
                  software and manufacturing technologies.
                               [station1.jpg]
   Engineering Research and Technology Program - The Engineering Research
          and Technology, or ERT, program is one of the functional
     responsibilities of the Advanced Technology Development Office. The
   goals of the ERT program are: to maximize the use of the International
      Space Station as a unique on-orbit laboratory; to demonstrate, in
     space, engineering technologies which will enhance the Utilization,
    Operations and Maintenance of the ISS by lowering costs and reducing
        risks; and to foster partnerships with other U.S. Government,
       industrial, and academic communities. The ERT program has been
    temporarily placed on hold pending completion of the current Federal
                               budget process.

                  Research Opportunities and Related Links

   A Research Announcement may result in the award of a contract, grant or
                           cooperative agreement.
     NASA Research Announcements, or NRAs, provide for the submission of
     competitive project ideas in one or more program areas of interest.

   Announcements of Opportunity, or AOs, solicit investigative ideas that
                  contribute to broad research objectives.

   Cooperative Agreement Notices, or CANs, competitively solicit research
       that envisions a cooperative agreement as the award instrument.
     * Office of Biological and Physical Research Enterprise
     * Office of Space Flight Advanced Programs
     * All Enterprises Research Opportunity Links
     * Agency-Wide Open Solicitations
     * Minority University Research
     * Summary of University and Business Research Opportunities
     * Unsolicited Proposals
     * NASA Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research

                 Selected Student and Faculty Opportunities
     * Student Microgravity Research Opportunities on the KC-135 Aircraft
     * Graduate Student Researchers Program
     * Human Exploration and Development of Space - University Partners
     * NASA JSC Student Programs
     * NASA JSC Faculty Programs

                                 Other Sites
     * NASA JSC Technology Transfer and Commercialization
     * NASA Headquarters: Office of the Senior Advisor to the
       Administrator (Partnering with industry, academia and federal
       agencies) Includes National Web Cast Access
     * International Space Station Science Operations News
     * Space Shuttle Payload Information Source

       Public Kids Educators News Media Business Employees Researchers

                                   SEARCH
                             NASA Home JSC Home


    Curator: Kim Dismukes
    Responsible NASA Official: Catherine Watson
    Updated: 19 November 2001


    [Count.cgi?df=paocount.dat]
