http://www.pdc.wa.gov/pdf/FREEZE.2002.Idoc.pdf

   PUBLIC DISCLOSURE COMMISSION 711 Capitol Way Rm. 206, PO Box 40908 *
   Olympia, Washington 98504-0908 * (360) 753-1111 * FAX (360) 753-1112
   Toll Free 1-877-601-2828 * E-mail: pdc@pdc.wa.gov * Website:
   www.pdc.wa.gov Session Freeze Starts on December 15, 2001 Beginning at
   12:01 a.m. on Saturday, December 15, 2001, no person holding state
   elected office -- nor anyone employed by or acting on behalf of such an
   official -- is permitted to solicit or accept contributions to a
   candidate or public office fund or to retire a campaign debt.1 The
   freeze period runs through the 30th day after adjournment of the
   regular legislative session, and is in effect during any special
   session. RCW 42.17.710 The Public Disclosure Commission has implemented
   RCW 42.17.710, and a Supreme Court decision interpreting the law, by
   adopting WAC 390-17-400, Time Limit to Solicit or Accept Contributions.
   A copy of the rule is enclosed. Please be aware that, during a
   legislative freeze period, a state elected official may NOT solicit or
   accept contributions that: * go to an incumbent state official or known
   candidate for state or local office (including one's own campaign for
   state or local office in 2002, 2003 or beyond); * go to a public office
   fund; * are used to pay a non-reimbursed public office related expense;
   * are used to retire a campaign debt; * go to a caucus political
   committee if the committee spends the contributions for the benefit of
   incumbent state officials or known candidates; or * go to a bona fide
   political party or another political committee if the party or
   committee spends the contributions for the benefit of incumbent state
   officials or known candidates. "Known candidates" means individuals who
   are, or who become, candidates for state or local office during a
   legislative freeze period. Caucus political committees and other
   persons who are employed by or act on behalf of state officials are
   also prohibited from soliciting or accepting contributions for the
   above purposes during a freeze period. 1 Contributions must be in-hand
   by 11:59 p.m. on Friday, December 14, 2001. Contributions received on
   or after Saturday, December 15, must be returned even if postmarked
   earlier than December 15. Pledges must be received no later than
   December 14, 2001. If the payment of a pledge is not in-hand by
   December 14, do not solicit or accept payment until after the freeze
   period is over. During a freeze period, if state elected officials --
   or caucus committee staff or anyone else acting on behalf of state
   elected officials -- solicit or accept contributions for a political
   party, caucus political committee or PAC, those funds must be deposited
   into a separate account and spent in a manner that does not benefit
   incumbents or known candidates. See the enclosed rule for more details.
   Other Key Features of the Rule !"A successful candidate for state
   office who does not already hold state elective office is not required
   to comply with the freeze period provision until sworn into office. !"A
   current state elected official who will leave office in January will
   cease to be subject to the session freeze prohibition when his or her
   term expires, unless he or she assumes another state elected office or
   otherwise falls under RCW 42.17.710. !"The freeze prohibition does not
   apply to a state elected official who is raising money for his or her
   own campaign for federal office pursuant to federal election law. !"A
   state elected official who is also a candidate for state or local
   office may use personal funds or surplus funds to contribute to his or
   her own campaign during a freeze period. !"A state elected official is
   permitted to transfer surplus campaign funds to his or her own Surplus
   Funds Account during a freeze period. !"A caucus political committee
   may accept contributions from members of that caucus who use personal
   funds or surplus campaign funds to make the contributions. Further,
   these contributions from members could be used for any purpose; they do
   not need to be deposited into the caucus committee's freeze account.
   Please contact Director of Public Outreach Doug Ellis at (360)
   664-2735, toll free 1- 877-601-2828, or e-mail at dellis@pdc.wa.gov
   with questions. Oct. 31, 2001 Session Freeze Rule WAC 390-17-400 Time
   Limit to Solicit or Accept Contributions. The purpose of this rule is
   to clarify and implement RCW 42.17.710. (1) "Campaign debt," as used in
   RCW 42.17.710 and this rule, means any debt incurred by a candidate
   seeking election to a non-federal public office, including campaigns
   for state, county, city, town, school district, special district or
   other state political subdivision elective office. (2) "Known
   candidates" means individuals who are, or who become, candidates for
   state or local office during a legislative session freeze period. (3)
   "Legislative session freeze period" means the period of time in RCW
   42.17.710 within which contributions shall not be solicited or accepted
   by a state official or a person employed by or acting on behalf of a
   state official. (a) The freeze period begins at 12:01 a.m. on the
   thirtieth day before the start of the regular legislative session and
   ends at 11:59 p.m. on the thirtieth day following adjournment of the
   regular legislative session. (b) If a special session is held
   immediately following the end of the regular legislative session, the
   freeze period ends on the day the special session adjourns or at 11:59
   p.m. on the thirtieth day following adjournment of the regular
   legislative session, whichever is later. (c) If a special session is
   held other than within 30 days before or after a regular legislative
   session, the freeze period begins at 12:01 a.m. on the first day of the
   special session and ends at 11:59 p.m. on the final day of the special
   session. (4) A successful candidate for state office who does not
   already hold a state office is not required to comply with RCW
   42.17.710 until sworn into office. (5) A state official must comply
   with RCW 42.17.710 until he or she no longer holds state office. (6)
   "Person employed by or acting on behalf of a state official" includes a
   caucus political committee or any political committee financed or
   controlled by a legislative caucus as a whole or by one or more
   officers of a caucus political committee. (7) State Officials May Do
   the Following. During a legislative session freeze period, the
   activities in which state officials may engage include, but are not
   limited to: (a) soliciting or accepting contributions to assist his or
   her own campaign for federal office; (b) accepting gifts or other items
   permitted under chapter 42.52 RCW, so long as the gift or other item is
   not * a contribution to an incumbent state official or known candidate,
   * a contribution to a public office fund, * used to pay a
   non-reimbursed public office related expense, or * used to retire a
   campaign debt; (c) attending and speaking at a fund raising event held
   by or on behalf of a bona fide political party, so long as the
   contributions raised are not earmarked or otherwise designated for any
   incumbent state official or known candidate; (d) transferring their own
   personal funds, as defined in WAC 390-17-305, or their own surplus
   funds, as defined in RCW 42.17.020, to their own campaign account, so
   long as the funds are properly reported; (e) soliciting or accepting
   contributions on behalf of a nonprofit charity; or (f) soliciting or
   accepting contributions on behalf of any political committee, including
   a caucus political committee, a bona fide political party or a ballot
   measure committee, so long as the political committee does not spend
   the contributions for the benefit of incumbent state officials or known
   candidates. (8) State Officials May Not Do the Following. During a
   legislative session freeze period, a state official, or a person
   employed by or acting on behalf of a state official, may not solicit or
   accept contributions that: (a) go to an incumbent state official or
   known candidate; (b) go to a public office fund; (c) are used to pay a
   non-reimbursed public office related expense; (d) are used to retire a
   campaign debt; (e) go to a caucus political committee if the committee
   spends the contributions for the benefit of incumbent state officials
   or known candidates; or (f) go to a bona fide political party or a
   political committee if the political party or committee spends the
   contributions for the benefit of incumbent state officials or known
   candidates. (9) Caucus Political Committees. During a legislative
   session freeze period, a caucus political committee (a) may solicit or
   accept contributions from caucus members if the members make the
   contributions with their own personal funds, as defined in WAC
   390-17-305, or with their own surplus funds, as defined in RCW
   42.17.020; (b) may not solicit or accept contributions for any of the
   purposes specified in subsection (8) of this rule. (10) Persons Acting
   on Behalf of State Officials. During a legislative session freeze
   period, a person employed by or acting on behalf of a state official
   may not solicit or accept contributions for any of the purposes
   specified in subsection (8) of this rule. (11) Bona Fide Political
   Parties. During a legislative session freeze period, a bona fide
   political party may not solicit or accept contributions that are * used
   for a public office fund, * used for a state official's non-reimbursed
   public office related expenses, * used for retiring a state official's
   campaign debt, or * earmarked contributions to specific incumbent state
   officials or known candidates. However, a bona fide political party may
   solicit or accept contributions for its own fund raising purposes. (12)
   Segregating Session Freeze Funds. During a legislative session freeze
   period, if a state official, a caucus political committee, or another
   person employed by or acting on behalf of a state official solicits or
   accepts contributions to * a caucus political committee, * a bona fide
   political party, or * any political committee that supports or opposes
   state or local office candidates, the contributions are presumed to
   violate RCW 42.17.710, unless the contributions are * deposited into a
   separate bank account and * not spent for the benefit of incumbent
   state officials or known candidates. However, nothing in this
   subsection authorizes a state official, a caucus political committee or
   any person employed by or acting on behalf of a state official to take
   any of the actions prohibited by subsections (8) or (9)(b) of this
   rule. (13) Session Freeze Solicitations. If a person is solicited for a
   contribution during the legislative session freeze period * by a state
   official, a caucus political committee, or another person employed by
   or acting on behalf of a state official, and * the contribution is to a
   caucus political committee, a bona fide political party, or a political
   committee that supports or opposes candidates for state or local
   office, and * the person makes a contribution during or after the
   freeze period in response to this solicitation, the contribution is
   subject RCW 42.17.710 and subsection (12) of this rule. (14) Spending
   Contributions to Benefit Incumbents or Known Candidates. For purposes
   of complying with subsections (7)(f), (8)(e) and (f), and (12) of this
   rule, contributions are considered spent for the benefit of incumbent
   state officials or known candidates if the contributions are used at
   any time for one or more of the following purposes. (a) Contributions
   to incumbent state officials or known candidates. (b) Independent
   expenditures supporting incumbent state officials or known candidates,
   or opposing their opponents, whether or not the opponents are
   themselves known candidates during a legislative session freeze period.
   (c) Payments to staff, consultants or advisors for performing
   activities that directly assist or promote the election of incumbent
   state officials or known candidates. (d) Polls or surveys that relate
   to incumbent state officials, known candidates or their districts, or
   to general voter attitudes or preferences, unless * a poll or survey is
   produced, conducted, tabulated and analyzed according to the terms of a
   written confidentiality agreement and, if the agreement is breached,
   all reasonable steps are taken to enforce it, and * the results of a
   poll or survey are not provided by the spender, or with the spender's
   permission or prior knowledge, to incumbent state officials, known
   candidates or their agents. However, candidate recruitment poll or
   survey results may be provided to an individual who later becomes a
   known candidate without the expenditure being considered as benefiting
   a known candidate so long as the poll or survey does not constitute a
   contribution to the individual or does not otherwise support or promote
   his or her election to state or local office. For purposes of this
   subsection, a "candidate recruitment poll or survey" is a poll or
   survey that is conducted for the sole purpose of recruiting candidates
   to run for public office and only determines * the respondent's party
   preference, * the level of support the incumbent currently has and how
   strong that support is, but not why he or she has that support, *
   whether respondents recognize the names of individuals who may decide
   to seek that elective office, * whether respondents currently hold a
   favorable opinion about these individuals, their abilities or fitness
   for elective office, but not why such opinions are held, * whether
   respondents would likely vote for one or more of these individuals were
   they to seek office, but not why respondents would vote in the manner
   they indicated or whether they could be persuaded to change their vote,
   and * the validity of the poll or survey results. (e) Any other
   expenditure that directly benefits or promotes the election to state or
   local office of incumbent state officials or known candidates. (WSR
   98-23-016, filed 11/6/98; Em. WSR 98-01-055, filed 12/11/97; WSR
   96-01-103, filed 12/19/95; WSR 93-16-064, filed 7/30/93)
