http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_1206energy.htm

   [bar1.jpg]

   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   [bar1.jpg]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or Tracey Shifflett
   (Tracey.Shifflett@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019

   Senate Democrats Dream of Windmills and Wood Chips Instead of Crafting
          an Energy Bill that Solves America’s Immediate Problems

       House Resources Chairman Hansen Criticizes Fanciful Legislation


   Washington, D.C. – House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen today
   voiced strong concerns about Senate Democrats’ hasty and inadequate
   energy bill.

   His statement:

   "Senate Democrats apparently would rather daydream about the day our
   cars and fighter planes run on wood chips and geothermal heat than roll
   up their sleeves and help Republicans solve America’s energy and
   economic problems.

   "Our energy bill reduces our reliance on foreign oil and creates
   badly-needed jobs. By contrast, Senate Democrats don’t care that we are
   getting more and more of our oil from the most unstable region of the
   world. Instead of creating new jobs, their bill sends American jobs to
   Canada along with the natural gas pipeline.

   "They’ve completely ignored harsh realities in favor of their distant
   dreams of windmills and biomass.

   "But you can’t get there from here. The House Resources Committee held
   hearings on renewable energy this summer. I led a 12-member CODEL to
   Europe this summer to look at Europe’s top producers of clean,
   renewable energy. We studied Denmark’s windmills, Norway’s hydropower
   and Iceland’s geothermal energy. Then we held a hearing on what it
   would take for America to get from here to there.

   "It will be very, very expensive, take years and require considerable
   sacrifices that most Americans right now don’t seem willing to make.

   "Should we work toward that future? Absolutely. But not at the expense
   of the present. Right now, America is at war in the very region of the
   world that gives us most of our oil. Right now, America is in a
   recession. Right now, more than half a million Americans have recently
   lost their jobs.

   "It would be nice if Senate Democrats would put aside their schemes for
   broccoli-fueled cars, roll up their sleeves and help us come up with
   immediate solutions for our immediate problems."


                        ###
