http://commercial.hq.nasa.gov/ipp.html


   Animation-Fading images of the Space Station, Computer Chip, Nuclear
   Plant, Satellite, Plants, and Mother & Child
   Site Map
   Commercial Opportunity
   Submitting Offers
   Intellectual Property Protection
   Pricing
   Agreements
   Research & Development
   Related Links
   Government Policies
   Reports & Papers
   International
   Contact Information
   What's New
   NASA Insignia - Jump to NASA home site

   ISS Commercial Development

      NASA has established policies to protect the proposer's intellectual
      property from initial contact through exit and final results. More
      details can be found in the Intellectual Property Guide link below.

      Introduction

      The long term objective of the commercial development plan for the ISS
      is to establish the foundation for a marketplace and stimulate a
      national economy for space products and services in low Earth orbit,
      where both demand and supply are dominated by the private sector.

      Because of the extreme importance of intellectual property rights to
      the private sector, the NASA commercial development plan for the ISS
      requested that the NASA Office of General Counsel complete a reference
      guide discussing the statutory, regulatory and programmatic strictures
      on the deployment, utilization and ownership of intellectual property
      within the Space Station program. This guide presents an analysis of
      the intellectual property law aspects of the international agreements
      and documents pertaining to the ISS, and then relates them to NASA's
      authorities for entering into research and development agreements with
      private entities.

      The analysis, along with the extensive set of background materials
      contained in the appendix, should aid potential agreement participants
      in understanding the legal environment for entering into agreements
      with NASA to fly research and development payloads on the ISS.

      For further background on ISS intellectual property, review the
      following papers:
        * "Intellectual Property and the Economic Development of the
          International Space Station," Marguerite B. Broadwell, ISS
          Commercial Development Manager, NASA Headquarters. Presented at the
          ISS Utilization Conference, Space Technology and Applications
          International Forum (STAIF-2000), February, 2000.
        * Legal Aspects of Space Station Utilization, Paper presented by
          Edward A. Frankle, Esq, General Counsel, NASA, Washington, D.C., to
          the 50th International Astronautical Congress, International
          Institute of Space Law, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 5,
          1999. AIAA Paper: IISL-99-IISL.1.03.


   A special note on PDFs and Adobe Acrobat Reader.

      Intellectual Property Protection Guide
        * Intellectual Property and the International Space Station:
          Creation, Use, Transfer, Ownership and Protection: Prepared by the
          Office of the General Counsel, NASA, September 1999.
        * Space Act Agreements Manual: Developed by the NASA Office of
          General Counsel to explain philosophy, delineate approaches, and
          describe policies, authorities, and procedures involved in creating
          Space Act agreements. Space Act Agreements are defined in the
          Manual. (12/98)


                                Disclaimer!
   The materials within this Web site do not constitute legal advice. For
      details, read the NASA Office of the General Counsel Disclaimer.

      [ Make Comments | NASA Privacy Statement | Content Manager | Home ]
