http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/aerial.html

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Aerial and Satellite Imagery
   Project Contact:  Ron R. Risty
   Phone: 605-594-6969 Fax: 605-594-6150
   Email: risty@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
   Aerial and Satellite Imagery

   This project is responsible for the acquisition of pre-and-post
   Hurricane Mitch remote sensing data needed to support the work of U.S.
   Geological Survey scientists involved with related projects in the four
   Central American countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, and
   Nicaragua. Specific study areas for which remote sensing data are being
   obtained are displayed on a map that may be found under the "Locations"
   button. Current status of the remote sensing data acquisitions is
   portrayed on a map that may be viewed by activating the "Data" button.
   Objectives
   The goal of the Aerial and Satellite Imagery Project is to provide
   remote sensing data that serves as a primary source of information for
   the other thirteen projects being conducted under the Hurricane Mitch
   Program. To the extent possible, these data are cloud-free and provide
   an unobstructed view of the land surface. The aerial photography has
   been acquired so that stereo coverage, which produces a
   three-dimensional model of the terrain, is available for specific study
   sites in the four countries. This imagery serves as a basis for mapping
   landslides and debris flows; for determining impacts to coral reefs,
   mangrove swamps, coastal vegetation and shrimp farms; and for mapping
   municipalities at risk. Pre-and-post event Landsat satellite scenes
   have been obtained and they provide broad coverage for the entire
   region. Lastly, high-resolution elevation data has been procured to aid
   in flood inundation studies for portions of fifteen municipalities in
   Honduras. To learn more about available remote sensing products, please
   activate the Products button. Detailed descriptions of the remote
   sensing data types acquired by this project are found by activating the
   Data button.
   Approach
   A signed Letter of Agreement has been established with the mapping
   agency in each of the four countries to facilitate technology transfer
   and the exchange of data. Contracts have been competed and awarded for
   the acquisition of new aerial photography and LIDAR data for designated
   USGS study sites. Copies of the original photographic materials and
   LIDAR data will be given to the respective mapping agency to which it
   pertains, so that requests for copies can be made in-country for a
   nominal fee. In addition, the Hurricane Mitch web page will contain
   maps depicting areas of coverage by remote sensing imagery type, as
   well as flight line maps for aerial photography that portray photo
   frame centers.
   Cooperating Agencies
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
     * Guatemala: U.S. AID; Instituto Geografico Nacional.
     * El Salvador: U.S. AID; Instituto Geografico Nacional.
     * Honduras: U.S. AID; Instituto Geografico Nacional; Aerofoto
       Centroamericana.
     * Nicaragua: U.S. AID; Instituto Nicaraguense de Estudios
       Territoriales.

   Source Data
   The remote sensing data provided by this project has been obtained from
   a variety of sources. Where available, existing aerial photography
   (both pre-and-post Mitch) has been procured from the national mapping
   agency of each country and private industry. Contracts for new aerial
   photography were established to provide coverage for those study sites
   lacking appropriate data. In addition, a cooperative agreement with the
   University of Texas at Austin, Bureau of Economic Geology resulted in
   the acquisition of high-resolution elevation data for portions of
   fifteen municipalities in Honduras. Landsat satellite data were
   obtained from the U.S. Geological Survey's EROS Data Center and from
   Space Imaging. For a general description of the types of remote sensing
   data obtained for the Hurricane Mitch Program, please go to the
   Products button.
   Products
   On the data page
   Locations
   A general map of the four-country region displays specific areas for
   which remote sensing data have been acquired. The map is updated as new
   data is acquired.
   Data
   A variety of remote sensing products have been generated by this
   project and they include the following:
   Satellite Imagery
   Pre-Mitch Landsat Mosaic    To order call Ron Risty 605-594-6969 with
   path number, row number and date.
   A total of 27 Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data sets were acquired and
   processed to create a terrain corrected satellite image mosaic covering
   Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Individual country
   mosaics have been created from the regional mosaic. Both the regional
   and individual country mosaics are available as color photographic
   prints and as digital data files.
   Post-Mitch Landsat Mosaic    To order call Ron Risty 605-594-6969 with
   path number, row number and date.
   A terrain corrected satellite image mosaic covering Guatemala, El
   Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua was prepared from a total of 34
   Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data sets. Individual country mosaics have
   been prepared from the regional mosaic. Both the regional and
   individual country mosaics are available as color photographic prints
   and as digital data files.
   Aerial Photography
   Open Skies photography
   One of the needs of the Hurricane Mitch Task Force was aerial
   photographic coverage of those areas hardest hit. A partnership was
   formed between the United States Geological Survey of the Department of
   Interior and the Open Skies program of the Defense Threat Reduction
   Agency. Between December 4 and 19, 1998, an Open Skies aircraft, flown
   by the U.S Air Force, flew five missions in Central America covering
   parts of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. These five
   missions collected ten rolls and more than 20,000 frames of
   black-and-white vertical high resolution aerial photographs.
   The Reconstruction Task Force and others are currently using this
   aerial coverage to access damage, to plan and prioritize response, to
   rebuild and to reduce the risk of future destruction and for scientific
   analysis.
               Mission 1    To order from any mission, call Ron Risty at
   605-594-6969 or risty@usgs.gov
               Mission 2
               Mission 3
               Mission 4
               Mission 5
   Black and white aerial photography
   click for a larger image This is an example of black and white aerial
   photography. This image was taken during Open Skies Mission 5 on
   12/19/98. It is in roll 4, frame 1017.
   Click on the image for a bigger graphic.
   Natural color aerial photography
   This is an example of natural color aerial photography. We have
   acquired the full set of imagery for the Bay Islands. Orthophotos -
   1:10,000 scale.
   Click on the image for a bigger graphic.
   Color infrared aerial photography
   click for a larger image This is an example of color infrared aerial
   photography. This image is SPOT-MS 4-3-2 taken on 4/15/99.
   Click on the image for a bigger graphic.
   Elevation Data
   GTOPO30 elevation data was acquired and processed to create
   LIDAR
   There are three LIDAR products available for each municipality - raw
   LIDAR data, gridded elevation data, and transect profiles. Below are
   some cross-sections across the Choluteca veg-filtering area. They
   illustrate the effects of different amounts of filtering.examples of
   profiles generated from the LIDAR data that was acquired for Choluteca.
   The blue symbols represent the unfiltered LIDAR. The red symbols
   represent the LIDAR data that remains after filtering.
   click for a larger image Bald earth topography.
   The filter parameters have been set to remove vegetation and structures
   and leave only topography. These are the normal parameters and filter
   does a good job at this task.
   click for a larger image Minimal filtering.
   This cross-section shows the effects of using the default settings we
   used for Tegucigalpa. The trees are gone, the buildings still remain.
   The small trees are reduced to "shrubbery", but still remain in the
   DEM.
   click for a larger image Narrow bandwidth filtering.
   Here we've tried to remove the residual "shrubbery" and still keep the
   buildings by narrowing the filter bandwidth. Both the building and the
   vegetation get decimated.
   A map of the locations where LIDAR is available for Honduras.
   Posters


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/aerial.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Wednesday, January 09, 2002
