http://spin.niddk.nih.gov/tycko/intro.html

                                  Welcome!

   Please use the navigation frame to the left to find your way through
   this site. See our research statement for a general description of our
   work. In recent work you can find descriptions of recent and ongoing
   projects that we are engaged in. If you click on a further info link,
   you can find a detailed description of that project along with some
   figures. Email addresses, phone and fax numbers for the group are found
   on the current group members page. If you have any difficulties
   navigating this site, please let us know. This site was last modified
   January 16, 2001.

                                 Disclaimers

    Copyright Status

   Most of the information at this site is in the public domain. Unless
   stated otherwise, documents and files on NIH web servers can be freely
   downloaded and reproduced. Most documents on this server are sponsored
   by the NIH; however, you may encounter documents that were sponsored
   along with private companies and other organizations. Other parties may
   retain all rights to publish or reproduce these documents or to allow
   others to do so. Some documents available from this server may be
   protected under the U. S. and foreign Copyright laws. Permission to
   reproduce these documents may be required.

    Disclaimer of Endorsement

   NIH does not endorse or recommend any commercial products, processes,
   or services. The views and opinions of authors expressed on NIH
   websites do not necessarily state or reflect those of the U.S.
   Government, and they may not be used for advertising or product
   endorsement purposes.

   This site provides links to other Internet sites only for the
   convenience of World Wide Web users. NIH is not responsible for the
   availability or content of these external sites, nor does NIH endorse,
   warrant or guarantee the products, services or information described or
   offered at these other Internet sites.

    Disclaimer of Liability

   For documents available from this server, the U.S. Government does not
   warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the
   accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
   product, or process disclosed.
