http://chandra.nasa.gov/contacts.html

   Chandra X-ray Observatory News
   status new releases photos video & audio background information
   contacts & services home

   Contacts & Services

   NASA’s newest space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory is the
   world’s most powerful X-ray observatory, Chandra joins the Hubble Space
   Telescope and NASA’s other great observatories in an unprecedented
   study of our universe.

   With its capability to "see" an otherwise invisible but violent,
   vibrant and ever-changing universe, Chandra will provide insights into
   the universe’s structure and evolution.

   The following information is designed to assist news media
   representatives covering the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
     [star.gif] Media Contacts

   [star.gif] Status Reports

   [star.gif] NASA TV

   [star.gif] Internet Information

   [star.gif] Live Shots - Television Back-hauls

   [star.gif] Interviews

   [star.gif] Chandra News Center

   Chandra News Center

      NASA's Chandra News Center is located at Marshall Space Flight Center
      in Huntsville, Alabama. The Marshall Center for the Office of Space
      Science, NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. manages the Chandra
      project.

   News Center hours:

                      8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. CDT Weekdays
                      (256) 544-0034

   Media Contacts - The following are points of contact for bonafide
   members of the news media.
   Please Note: We can only respond to requests from news media
   representatives. If you are a member of the general public and have a
   question or comment about the Chandra X-ray Observatory, click here.
   Steve Roy
   Chandra Program Office
   Marshall Space Flight Center,
   Huntsville, Ala.
   Steve.Roy@msfc.nasa.gov
   (256) 544-0034
   Don Savage
   Office of Space Science
   NASA Headquarters
   Washington, D.C.
   Donald.Savage@hq.nasa.gov
   (202) 358-1727
   Wallace Tucker
   Chandra X-ray Observatory Center
   Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
   Cambridge, Mass.
   Wtucker@cfa.harvard.edu
   (617) 496 7998
   Brooks McKinney
   TRW Space and Engineering Group
   Redondo Beach, Calif.
   Brooks.McKinney@TRW.com
   (310) 814-8177

   Status Reports

   NASA will issue status reports about Chandra as appropriate. These
   reports are available via the Internet at:

                           http://chandra.nasa.gov

   Bona fide news media may receive reports automatically via e-mail or
   fax by sending an e-mail request to: Steve.Roy@msfc.nasa.gov or by
   calling him at (256) 544-0034.
   NASA Television

   Periodic briefings on results as well as video files will be broadcast
   as appropriate on NASA TV.
   NASA Television is available on GE-2, transponder 9C at 85 degrees West
   longitude, with vertical polarization. Frequency is on 3880.0
   megahertz, with audio on 6.8 megahertz.

   - Watch NASA TV on the Web
     - broadcast.com
     - NASA Shuttle Web

   - NASA Television Schedule (only available during mission)
   Internet Information

   Up-to-date, comprehensive information on the Chandra X-ray Observatory
   is available to news media on the Internet at:

                           http://chandra.nasa.gov

   The latest status reports, news releases, photos, fact sheets and
   background archives, as well as links to other Chandra-related sites,
   are available at this address.

   For information on other programs at the Marshall Space Flight Center,
   go to:

                        http://www.msfc.nasa.gov/news
   Live Shots - Television Back-hauls
   Television station news departments may conduct live, or live-to-tape
   interviews via the NASA satellite with Chandra program managers,
   scientists and control team members. For additional information or to
   arrange interviews, broadcasters may contact Steve Roy at (256)
   544-0034.
   Interviews
   Members of the Chandra development, operations, and science teams are
   available to the news media for interviews upon request. To arrange
   interviews, contact Steve Roy at (256) 544-0034.
                                 Back to Top
