http://ohv.parks.ca.gov/default.asp?page_id=1170


                    Welcome to California California Home

   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
                                    Tree



                               Home Page Home
                      State Vehicular Recreation Areas
                                  Sno Parks
                              Laws and Safety
                            Conservation Efforts
                                  About Us
                                  Site Map


                                Related Links



                               Home Page Home
                                  Carnegie
                               Hollister Hills
                                Hungry Valley
                                Oceano Dunes
                               Ocotillo Wells
                                Prairie City



   State Vehicular Recreation Areas
   Home Page




   The State Vehicular Recreation Areas or SVRAs, are OHV parks that are
   operated by the OHMVR Division of California State Parks. Each SVRA has
   an operational program that provides (in most locations) the following
   services:

     Trails, tracks, and other OHV Recreation opportunities. Facilities
     like restrooms, camping, shade ramadas, water, and in some
     locations, an OHV parts store. Public safety, including law
     enforcement, first aid, and search and rescue. Maintenance and
     housekeeping, including repair and maintenance of OHV trails,
     buildings, equipment and public use facilities. Interpretive and
     educational activities and publications promoting safe and
     responsible OHV recreation. Resource management designed to sustain
     OHV opportunities, protects and enhances wildlife habitat, erosion
     control, revegetation, etc.

   Federal and Local OHV Parks, Areas and Trails

     This is a broad category of OHV recreation opportunity, primarily
     associated with the OHV Programs partnership with cities, counties
     and federal agencies. It includes local OHV "parks" such as Glen
     Helen or Frank Raines; large federal "areas" like Glamis Dunes or
     Kennedy Meadows; and "trails" such as the Rubicon or Mojave Road.
     They provide thousands of acres and hundreds of miles of roads and
     trails for OHV Recreation. The Bureau of Land Management, the US
     Forest Service and many cities and counties receive several millions
     of dollars from the OHV Fund every year to help them provide for and
     manage the OHVs using their land.

   Statewide Motorized Trail System

     The Statewide Motorized Trail System (SMTS) is a unique compilation
     of the above. The backbone of the SMTS is the California Back
     Country Discovery Trail (CBDT). The CBDT is a concept that is now
     materializing, which will provide long- distance touring
     opportunities throughout the state. The ultimate goal of the CBDT is
     to establish a motorized trail clear across California that links
     Mexico to Oregon.

   State Vehicular Recreation Areas
   Carnegie
   Welcome to Carnegie State Vehicular Recreation Area (SVRA). Located in
   the hills of southern Alameda and San Joaquin counties, Carnegie is one
   of six SVRAs administered by the California Department of Parks and
   Recreation. With a diversity of terrain ranging from rolling hills to
   steep canyons, Carnegie has become a popular destination for off-road
   enthusiasts of all skill levels.
   [spacer.gif] [wedge.gif] Carnegie
   Hollister Hills
   Welcome to Hollister Hills State Vehicular Recreation Area. Hollister
   Hills offers recreation for motorcyclists, 4-wheelers, picnickers, and
   campers in the Gabilan Mountains just an hours drive from San Jose.
   Park elevations range from 660 feet to 2,425 feet.
   [spacer.gif] [wedge.gif] Hollister Hills
   Hungry Valley
   Welcome to Hungry Valley State Vehicular Recreation Area (SVRA). Hungry
   Valley is the second largest unit of California State Park's
   Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Recreation Division. Located at Tejon Pass in
   northern Los Angeles and Ventura counties, Hungry Valley offers 19,000
   acres and over 130 miles of scenic trails for motorcycle, All-Terrain
   Vehicles (ATV), dune buggys, and 4x4 recreation. All levels of
   Off-Highway Vehicle (OHV) operator skills will be challenged by the
   wide variety of terrain and trails at Hungry Valley SVRA.
   [spacer.gif] [wedge.gif] Hungry Valley
   Oceano Dunes
   Welcome to Oceano Dunes State Vehicular Recreation Area. Formerly Pismo
   Dunes SVRA, this sand dune complex is geologically unique and also
   provides an impressive playground for off-highway enthusiasts from
   throughout the United States. One of several OHV areas administered by
   the California Department of Parks and Recreation, Oceano Dunes also
   offers visitors other recreational activities such as swimming,
   surfing, surf fishing, camping, and hiking. The staff at Oceano Dunes
   wishes you an enjoyable and safe stay.
   [spacer.gif] [wedge.gif] Oceano Dunes
   Ocotillo Wells
   Welcome to the Ocotillo Wells State Vehicular Recreation Area. Over
   40,000 acres of magnificent desert are open for off-road exploration
   and recreation within the boundaries portrayed on this map. Outside the
   boundaries, to the south and east, large tracts of BLM land (U.S.
   Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management) are also open to
   off-highway vehicles. The western boundary and part of the northern
   boundary connect with the half-million acre Anza-Borrego Desert State
   Park, which is closed to off-road recreation, but open to exploration
   by highway-legal vehicles along established primitive roads.
   [spacer.gif] [wedge.gif] Ocotillo Wells
   Prairie City
   Welcome to Prairie City State Vehicular Recreation Area. Prairie City
   is situated at the base of the Sierra Nevada foothills, 20 miles east
   of downtown Sacramento and three miles south of U.S. 50. The area
   offers off-highway vehicle enthusiasts a variety of interesting terrain
   and trails for motorcycles, all terrain vehicles, and 4-wheel drive
   vehicles.
   [spacer.gif] [wedge.gif] Prairie City



                              __________ search
                         (*)  My CA ( )   This Site

                             Back to Top of Page
     © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                        Privacy Policy Email Webmaster
