http://w3.noaa.gov/fisheries.html


   NOAA Banner
               Home Button

                          SiteMap Button

                                        Contacts Button

                                                       Search Button



   Fisheries Banner

   Fisheries Scene
   NOAA Fisheries Service - is dedicated to protecting and preserving our
   nation's living marine resources through scientific research, fisheries
   management, enforcement, and habitat conservation. NOAA Fisheries is a
   leading voice for commercial and recreational fisheries and continues
   to focus its efforts on sustaining our marine resources as we face the
   challenges that the new millennium brings. Marine fisheries (which
   extend from state waters to 200 miles from our shores) provide an
   important source of food for the nation, as well as thousands of jobs
   and a traditional way of life for many coastal communities. From the
   Gulf of Maine, to the Gulf of Mexico, and to the Gulf of Alaska, NOAA
   Fisheries scientists and managers work to ensure sustainable fish
   harvests; they are the stewards of our nation's living marine resources
   and their habitats.

   Featured Legislation and Offices

   Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act - To provide
   for the conservation and management of the fisheries, and for other
   purposes.

   Sustainable Fisheries Act - provides access to information associated
   with and resulting from NOAA Fisheries Service implementation of the
   Sustainable Fisheries Act, including 1996 changes and amendments to the
   Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act.

   Endangered Species Act - various species of fish, wildlife, and plants
   in the United States have been rendered extinct as a consequence of
   economic growth and development untempered by adequate concern and
   conservation.

   Marine Mammal Protection Act - certain species and population stocks of
   marine mammals are, or may be, in danger of extinction or depletion as
   a result of man's activities.

   Scientific Publications - NOAA Fisheries publishes the results of its
   research, which it has been doing for more than 125 years.

   Intergovernmental and Recreational Fisheries - strives to improve NOAA
   Fisheries' ability to build cooperative partnerships with other
   fisheries management agencies at the interregional and national level.


   spacer

   line
   News
   line

     * Entangled Right Whale Feared Dead
     * NOAA Fisheries Special Agents Assist in Disaster Investigation

   line
   Hot Topics
   line

     * Fish Statistics & Economics
     * Fishery Market News
     * Seafood Inspection

   line
   Products
   line

     * Protected Resources
     * Habitat Conservation
     * Science & Technology
     * Industry & Trade
     * Law Enforcement

   line
   Organizations
   line

     * NOAA Fisheries
     * Alaska Regional Office

     * Alaska Fisheries Science Center
     * Northeast Regional Office
     * Northeast Fisheries Science Center
     * Northwest Regional Office
     * Northwest Fisheries Science Center
     * Southeast Regional Office
     * Southeast Fisheries Science Center
     * Southwest Regional Office
     * Southwest Fisheries Science Center

                                 MORE LINKS

     * See the NOAA Fisheries links page for other sites.

   spacer

   spacer

   line

   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
   Last Updated: 1/16/02

   spacer
