http://cerny3.lbl.gov/BEARS/homepage.html

   B      E      A      R     S

   Berkeley Experiments with Accelerated Radioactive Species

                                 [bear.JPG]

              Motivation

                        Method

                              Tests and Experiments

                                                   Capabilities


                               What is BEARS?

        BEARS is an acronym for Berkeley Experiments with Accelerated
    Radioactive Species.  The primary goal of the BEARS initiative was to
   develop a radioactive ion beam capability at Lawrence Berkeley National
    Laboratory's (LBNL) 88-Inch Cyclotron.  Initial efforts have focussed
     on producing beams of carbon-11 (^11C) and oxygen-14 (^14O).  These
     isotopes are produced by the cyclotron at LBNL's Biomedical Isotope
    Facility, transported ~300 m to 88-Inch Cyclotron through a capillary
   and then ionized and injected into the 88" Cyclotron for acceleration.
   This capability provides experimenters with the opportunity to perform
     a wide range of new measurements in nuclear physics, chemistry and
                                astrophysics.

     The BEARS project involves a collaboration between several research
    divisions at LBNL.  The Nuclear Science Division operates the 88-Inch
    Cyclotron and performs basic and applied research in nuclear science.
    The Life Sciences Division operates the Biomedical Isotope Facility,
    which produces radioactive isotopes for research into medical imaging
       techniques.  We are also working closely with the laboratory's
                  Environment, Health and Safety Division.

     The BEARS concept was initially developed by members of the Nuclear
     Science Division's Exotic Nuclei Group, headed by Professor Joseph
     Cerny.  Other Cerny Group members include researcher James Powell,
   post-docs Rainer Joosten, Mike Rowe, and Junichi Fujisawa, and graduate
    student Fanqing Guo.  Two visiting scientists have also been working
   with the Cerny Group on BEARS.  Brookhaven National Laboratory's Peter
   Haustein has been coordinating construction of BEARS, and Xiaoji Xu, is
     visiting from Lanzhou, China.  Several other members of the Nuclear
    Science Division are also involved, including researchers Eric Norman
    and Peggy McMahan, Cyclotron Director Claude Lyneis and ion sourcerer
    Daniella Wutte.  Production of radioactive isotopes and coordination
     with the Biomedical Isotope Facility are handled by Masters of the
   Medical Cyclotron Henry vanBrocklin and Jim O'Neil.  Safety issues are
       handled by Health Physicist Christine Donahue and Rad Tech Bob
     Fairchild , both of the Environment, Health and Safety Division, as
        well as NSD's Ruth-Mary Larimer.  Former members of the BEARS
           collaboration include Dennis Moltz and Z. Q. "Dan" Xie.

                                 BEARS News

                             October 20-23,1999:
   The third BEARS experiment was performed.  Alfredo Galindo-Uribarri and
    collaborators from Oak Ridge National Laboratory measured low-energy
    resonances in the the p(^11C,p)^11C elastic-scattering cross section.
      For this experiment, a ^11C^3+ beam at 55 MeV was produced, then
                            degraded to ~20 MeV.

                             October 10-14,1999:
       The second BEARS experiment was performed.  Graham Peasley and
    coworkers from Hope College collaborated with LBNL's Wozniak/Moretto
   Group on a measurement of the fission cross sections for ^11C on gold.
   Five bombardment energies were used to measure the excitation function,
                         ranging from 62 to 104 MeV.

                                July 31,1999:
   The first test of the complete BEARS system was performed.  After some
   initial difficulties with target chemistry, a continuous beam of ~1.5 x
   10^8 ^11C ions per second (~23 ppA) was measured on target for a period
   of four hours.  During this time, the beam was very stable, varying in
    intensity by ~20% over the five minute trap-and-release cycle of the
   cryogenic trapping system.  The beam was stripped from 4+ to 6+ using a
    1.2 mg/cm^2 aluminum foil; after passing through a dipole magnet, no
   ^11B contamination of the beam was observed at the target.  Additional
      measurements of ^197Au(^11C,xn)^208-xAt cross sections were made;
   during the four hours that the beam was available, twice as much ^201At
     was produced than in all the "batch-mode" runs of the previous year
                                  combined.

          This page was created on September 22, 1998 by M. W. Rowe
                     Last updated on November 11, 1999.


              Motivation

                        Method

                              Tests and Experiments

                                                   Capabilities
