http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/upi0216russia.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

                                               search_but.jpg (3066 bytes)

                     Cox speaks on U.S.-Russia relations

                         United Press International

                              February 16, 2001

   By Peter Roff
   By turning a blind eye to corruption, the Clinton administration
   fostered a return to power of the Russian oligarchy, support that large
   numbers of Russians see as a reason that the Russian economy has taken
   a nosedive and so they blame the downturn on the United States, a U.S.
   representative said.
   Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Calif., speaking Thursday to the 28th annual
   Conservative Political Action, said that blame has translated into a
   deterioration of U.S.-Russian relations.
   The congressman claims, the Clinton administration policy also allowed
   for the proliferation of organized crime which, at times, fulfills what
   people in the West normally hold to be government functions like the
   administration and fulfillment of contractual obligations.
   Cox, who headed an in-depth Congressional study of U.S.-Russian
   relations as well as the investigation into the transfer of technology
   secrets to China, repeatedly referred to a report called "Russia's Road
   to Corruption" during his talk. The document surveys the years between
   the collapse of the Soviet Union and the rise to power of former KGB
   operative and current Russian President Vladimir Putin.
   The day the Soviet Union ceased to exist in December of 1991 was, Cox
   said, "the end of the most cruel, most violent, least humane, and most
   vicious ideology in the history of the world. It was an exhilarating
   time as people around the world were lifted by the spread of freedom."
   Cox said that U.S. ideals were very popular in the former Soviet Union
   at that time, getting U.S.-Russia relations off to a good start. "It
   was the greatest opportunity the U.S. had since the end of the second
   world war and we were well on the road to making Russia a commercial
   partner and ally much like had been down with Germany and Japan" in
   1945.
   But the Clinton administration slashed research efforts on ballistic
   missile defense and ended talks begun under former President George
   Bush on ending the ABM treaty which, in the view of Boris Yeltsin, was
   outmoded and no longer addressed the strategic threats of the new world
   order.
   Then, according to Cox, President Bill Clinton delegated U.S.-Russia
   policy to a trio of senior officials who, he said, made a mess of
   things -- Larry Summers at the Treasury Department, Strobe Talbott at
   the State Department and Vice President Al Gore.
   "This group of people were uniquely responsible for crafting
   U.S.-Russia policy outside the normal channels of our governmentthat
   were virtually immune to the normal checks and balances" of the U.S.
   political system, he said.
   Contrary to what was in the best interests of the Russian people or
   U.S. national interests, Cox said this group advocated the continued
   strengthening of the Russian central government and tried to operate in
   the arena of personal relationships rather than in pursuit of the
   furtherance of western political and economic ideals.
   "As the corruption of these allies became apparent, the tighter this
   trio clung to them," Cox said.
   Russia has also experienced an economic collapse where the market lost
   90 percent its value in 1998; essential food and medicines could not be
   had for purchase; emergency food rationing was put in place; and drug
   use and HIV-infection rates soared. Now, he said, the Russian economy
   is 25 percent smaller than when the country came into existence in
   1991, a change for which large numbers of Russians blame the United
   States.
