http://solg2.nascom.nasa.gov/solargrid/solargrid.shtml

   Astrogrid (solar) [masthead-6.gif]
   [masthead-5.gif]


   [menu-top.gif]
    Front Page
    Scientific Ops
    Engineering
    Software
    Results
    Gallery
    Atlas
    Press
    Links
    Project
    Copyright
   [menu-bottom.gif]

                                  [ag.gif]

            Call for ideas and comments from the solar community
                   relating to the solar part of Astrogrid

   Following the decisions taken by the December 2000 meeting in St
   Andrews and the subsequent inclusion of solar representatives in the
   Astrogrid consortium, we have been asked to determine the needs and
   aspirations of the UK solar physics community for a solar data grid.

   Via PPARC's Astrocommunity mailing list, Astrogrid has already issued
   its own call for general suggestions and input to the project, but we
   wish to start the ball rolling on the solar side by requesting
   community input specific to our solar needs.

   The grid is not only intended to enable those analyses you could never
   do before. It is also intended to facilitate analyses that up to now
   have been very difficult, but perhaps not impossible, by reason of data
   or information inaccessibility, or have only been possible by a chosen
   few by reason of resource limitations. Astrogrid is, therefore, not
   only about handling huge amounts of data, but could equally be about
   facilitating the handling of small but complex and diverse amounts of
   data. Before considering what your requirements might be, it is perhaps
   also worth noting a section from the Astrogrid announcement which
   highlights what the Astrogrid, and hence the solar part of it,
   specifically is not.

   The most generally useful format for collecting requirements in this
   context appears to be in the form of 'use-cases'. A use-case starts out
   as a scientific question or project and simply considers what tools are
   required to enable datasets to be located, retrieved and analysed
   quickly and easily in order to answer the question or undertake the
   project.

   As a first step to drawing up the Astrogrid requirements for solar
   physics, we need to identify as nearly a complete set of these tools as
   possible, without, for the time being, considering how these tools will
   be provided.

   Please give your imagination free rein and, most important, do not be
   constrained by any preconceptions of what might or might not be
   possible! We do not need to know your innermost thoughts as far as the
   science is concerned, just details of the tools you think you will need
   to do the job. However, the more detail you can give the better since a
   contribution of "Based upon criteria x,y,z I will need to identify
   automatically coronal holes in a set of full-disk images covering at
   least half a solar cycle" would be a good deal more helpful and
   informative than the vague reference to finding solar features in
   example (1) given below.

   Once we have received and collated your inputs the Astrogrid consortium
   will assess and prioritise the requirements bearing in mind that it is
   seen as vitally important that the initial goals of Astrogrid are
   attainable within the resources and timescales likely to be made
   available.

   [email.gif] Please send your ideas and comments to the solar members of
   the Astrogrid team (solargrid@rl.ac.uk) as soon as possible. We would
   hope to have a first draft of the requirements ready for discussion at
   the April NAM meeting.

                 Some basic use-case examples for starters.

   I need to ....

   1) Search for datasets with specific characteristics:

   Tools required:
   a) specify data characteristics (eg wavelength or solar feature) and/or
   instrument setup (eg filter or exposure time)
   b) search single or multi-instrument catalogues or observing logs for
   data matching the criteria.
   c) remotely inspect sample of data in order to check or refine (a)

   Technically, simple versions of this are already possible - where are
   the current limitations? What extra capabilities would lead to
   significant advances?

   2) Access observational data efficiently:-

   Tools required:
   a) identify the required datasets as in (1) above or otherwise
   b) download selected raw datasets and/or perform analysis of datasets
   in situ and download results.
   In situ analysis could take the form of calibration or reconstruction
   of the raw data and/or scientific analysis.

   3) Access auxiliary databases:

   This requires access to datasets that are not strictly solar, but are
   related. For example, STP data and atomic data databases.

   Tools required:
   a) ways of inspecting content of auxiliary databases
   b) ways of correlating appropriate parameters with solar data

   4) Identify the brightest 100 X-ray bright points seen in SOHO
   spectroscopic data, which also have Yohkoh SXT and MDI co-spatial and
   co-temporal data. Overlay magnetogram contours on monochromatic images
   and derive emission measures from the spectra.

   Tools required:
   a) identify the datasets as in (1) above (including feature
   recognition)
   b) calibrate the individual datasets
   c) produce images and overlays according to catalogued pointing
   information
   d) analyse line intensities

   Such an example includes a number of options. Should the calibrated
   data be cached locally to the user for further analysis or should just
   the processed contour plots be downloaded? Should the user's own
   software be uplinked to the grid to perform the spectral analysis or
   should the spectral data, being a much smaller volume, be sent to the
   user?

   [email.gif] Please send your ideas and comments to the solar members of
   the Astrogrid team (solargrid@rl.ac.uk)



   This site is provided by the CDS Mission Operations Management Team at
   the CLRC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (UK).
   It is maintained by Jeff Payne.
   Last revised on Friday (02/Feb/2001) at 04:37.
