http://www.kids.gov/k_gov.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
    Image of George Washington in front of a flag Government The Federal
    Government may seem big and confusing. Use these links to learn more
     about different parts of our government. You'll also learn some fun
   facts. Did you know President Harrison had a pet goat? One day the goat
     ran away and President Harrison had to chase him down Pennsylvania
                     Avenue! You've GOAT to be KIDding!
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item Alabama Archives Web Page for Kids - This fun site you can learn
     about important people of Alabama, what are the state emblems, and
                             Alabama governors.
   Item Alaska Kids - This site has great information on how to stay safe,
     how to stay healthy, and help with homework in the student guide.
   Item American Treasures of the Library of Congress - A guide to some of
        the "treasures" in the Library of Congress. Check out Thomas
     Jefferson's handwritten draft of the Declaration of Independence.
   Item Arizona's Kids Page - Arizona is full of history, natural wonders,
     and wildlife. Governor Jane Hull would like to show you some state
       facts, Arizona pictures, and a coloring book you can download.
       Item Ben's Guide to US Government for Kids - This site provides
       learning tools for K-12 students, parents, and teachers. These
       resources will teach how our government works, and much more.
    Item California Kids Korner - These pages lead to different links for
                          the state of California.
        Item CIA's Homepage for Kids - Take a look at the history of
    information gathering and the intelligence field. Try your skills at
    breaking a secret code, test your geography skills, or take a virtual
                              tour of the CIA.
   Item Colorado's Kids Page - This page was developed with the elementary
    student in mind by responding to the most frequently asked questions
   (FAQ's) we have received. This site can provide you with as many sites
   as possible to assist with doing school class assignments and projects.
      Item Connecticut - ConneCT Kids - Learn about the history, state
                  symbols, and government of Connecticut.
   Item Cool Stuff for Young People - This VA site is full of information
    about those who have fought for our country, the origins of Veterans'
   Day, the country's most familiar symbols, customs and observances, and
                                   more.
    Item Enactment of a Law - Library of Congress site about the steps to
                    enact a law in the U.S. Government.
   Item Fact Finder Kids' Corner - Learn about the U.S. Census, get facts
            about your state, and have fun with quiz questions.
      Item First Ladies of the United States - They came from different
      social and economic backgrounds, from many different geographical
   regions, and with diverse education preparation. Each First Lady served
    our country well and each left her own mark. Visit this site to learn
                              more about them.
    Item Florida Kids - This site has pages on museums, Florida folklife,
                      archaeology, history, and more.
     Item Georgia Kids - Learn with CC, the first dog of Georgia. Travel
         with him through the great state of Georgia and have fun.
   Item Idaho Kids Book - Discover the Undiscovered America IDAHO; A Tour
     of the State of Idaho Kid Book. Everything you wanted to know about
                    Idaho is right at your finger tips.
    Item Idaho's Just for Kid's Page - This site has different links for
             different ages, fun links, and educational links.
   Item Illinois Kid Zone - Not only can you get info on Illinois, you can
            also find out about the environment and fire safety.
    Item Iowa - Kids Too! - This website is for kids. Kids at school, and
         kids at play, will find links to do funtastic stuff here.
   Item Justice for Kids and Youth - Get Involved - Learn all about crime
             prevention and what's going on in your community.
     Item Kansas Kids - This site links to interesting subjects such as
    Governor Bill Graves favorite things and childhood memories. It also
            has a fun quiz and a information on the state seal.
     Item Law-4-Kids - Here is an introduction to questions you may have
                          about our legal system.
    Item Learn About the State Department - Includes information on what
     the State Department does, the history of the State Department, and
                            where it is located.
   Item Louisiana - Just for Students - This site is great for historical
                  and cultural information on this state.
     Item Maine's Kid's Page - This is the place to come and learn about
   Maine. You will find this site helpful and fun. Click on mascots Mozzie
                  Moose and Loretta Lobster to learn more.
   Item Maryland's Kids Page - This site has everything you wanted to know
   about Maryland, including famous people from Maryland, places to visit
                          and census information.
    Item Massachusetts Kids Page - Find out the state facts, such as the
                       state symbols and statistics.
      Item Michigan - Kids Discover - Learn stuff about Michigan, like
                  history and state symbols and much more.
    Item Michigan Kidz Korner - Find out fun information about the county
              fairs, farm life, and other agricultural facts.
      Item Minnesota Student Page - Need homework help on the state of
   Minnesota? How about learning about the state government? You can even
              learn how to make money! Click to find out more.
     Item Missouri's Kids Page - This page has fun facts, games, and you
                         find out what Ironton is.
    Item Montana is for Kids! - Find out fun things to see and do, about
                 Montana's past, and about Lewis and Clark!
    Item Nebraska's Kids Net - This page has links to games, museums, and
                                 education.
   Item Nebraska's website for Kids - Learn about Nebraska's legislature,
               fun facts, and history about this great state.
    Item New Hampshire Senate Page for Kids - Wanna know some interesting
   facts about New Hampshire? What is the seal, the flag, and the emblem?
                     Click this link to find out more.
     Item New Jersey Hang Out - This site has great info like Kids Brain
                 Food, It's Your World, and All About You.
   Item New Mexico Kids Stuff / Fast Facts - Here are some quick facts on
                       the great state of New Mexico.
   Item North Carolina's Kids Page - This site has fun facts, state toast,
               and homework help - all about North Carolina.
   Item North Dakota's Kid Zone - Read about great things in the state of
                               North Dakota.
     Item Ohio Oh Kids! - is the Ohio Public Library Information Network
   (OPLIN) area for kids ages 11 and under. There are 4 sections, each for
                           a specific age group.
   Item Oregon Blue Book Kids Home Page - Do you know what Oregon's state
    animal is? Have you toured it's state capital? You can find out these
                              things and more.
        Item Our World - The Library of Congress web site shares its
     collections, stories, online collections and more for students and
                                 teachers.
     Item Pennsylvania Kids Corner - Wanna know who the Secretary of the
     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is? What about the Pennsylvania flag?
                        Click here to find out more.
        Item Presidents of the United States - The biographies of the
    presidents' give us a clear look into the highs and lows of American
   history. Learn more about the presidents and the change we faced in the
                      past and challenges yet to come.
   Item Social Security Kids Stuff - Social Security is you piggy bank for
    the future. You save by making payments of part of your pay to Social
    Security as you work. Later when you can't work Social Security will
           pay you back every month with a Social Security check.
    Item South Carolina Kids Page - Find out great facts on this state -
     like what are the state symbols and emblems of South Carolina? What
   does the General Assembly do? You could even listen to a live broadcast
                           from the state house.
      Item South Dakota's Home Page for Kids - This page includes some
       interesting and fun information about South Dakota. Like famous
            citizens, historical events, and notorious legends.
    Item STAWRS Kids - This site explains why you pay taxes in a fun and
                           easy to follow format.
      Item Taxi Interactive - An online 'zine for understanding taxes.
        Item Tennessee Kids Links - The different departments within
    Tennessee's State Government have been working hard to develop pages
          for kids. Here lists great links from this great state.
    Item Texas SenateKids - This page invites all you rip-roaring readers
   to play games, explore the Texas Capitol, and learn all about the Texas
                             state government.
    Item The National 4-H Web - 4-H is the youth education branch of the
        Cooperative Extension Service, a program of the United States
    Department of Agriculture. Each state and each county has access to a
    County Extension office for both youth and adult programs. 4-H is fun
    with friends. 4-H is learning and doing cool things. 4-H is meetings,
   camp, workshops, social activities, trips, and fairs. 4-H is leadership
    opportunities and helping others. 4-H is responsibility and hard work
                                and success.
   Item U.S. House of Representatives - Great site for Government homework
       projects. Contains lots of documents related to the legislative
                                  process.
      Item US Patent and Trademark Office Kids Page - What are patents,
    trademarks and copyrights you ask? Here you will find the answers to
     the most frequently asked questions about "intellectual property".
    Item USDA for Kids - Learn about resource conservation, gardening and
                    science to farming and food safety.
     Item Utah Kids Page - This web page is a great place to learn more
    about Utah, its past, present, and future! This information is great
                           for kids of all ages.
     Item Vermont Kids Home Page - What are the sea monsters of Vermont?
          What are Vermont's first facts? Click here to find out.
   Item Washington State - Just for Kids - Just about everything you want
     to know about Washington State can be found here. From Geography to
   Population and Government to Politics. Excellent resource for home and
                            classroom projects.
   Item West Virginia Kids' Page - Click here to find out fun facts on the
    great state of West Virginia. There's a fun quiz, famous people, and
                        state symbols to read about.
     Item White House for Kids - A doorway into the history of the White
          House, past presidents, their families, pets, and more.
   Item Wyoming Kids Page - Wanna learn all about Wyoming? How about some
           fun stuff and great puzzles? Click here to learn more.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
