http://www-e835.fnal.gov/~stephen/e835ppp.ps

   PROPOSAL TO CONTINUE THE STUDY OF CHARMONIUM SPECTROSCOPY IN
   PROTON-ANTIPROTON ANNIHILATIONS. 18th November 1997
   Fermilab-Ferrara-Genova-Irvine-Northwestern-Torino "Charmonium"
   Collaboration - spokesperson R. Cester1 This is a proposal to continue
   the work of the "Charmonium" experiment in the study of charmonium
   spectroscopy in proton-antiproton annihilation. The goals of the
   "Charmonium" experiment are described in detail in the E835 proposal.
   This proposal should therefore be considered as an update of that
   document with a view to a run in the years 1999-2000 to complete the
   measurements outlined in that proposal. It takes into account what was
   achieved and what we learned in the E835 run. We note that data taking
   ended little more than a month before this writing and our
   understanding of the data is far from complete. We recall that the
   measurements of highest priority for E835 were: i. Determination of the
   line parameters of the jc resonance detected through the flfl final
   state ii. Confirmation of the 1P1 and determination of its line
   parameters iii. Search for the j 0 c iv. Study of the O/0 resonance Of
   these four items, only the first one, the study of the jc resonance
   parameters has been concluded; it took an integrated luminosity of 18pb
   \Gamma 1. While the line parameters are reasonably measured and
   consistent with the E760 results, we note that the branching ratio is
   reduced from the E760 value. 1P 1 Search We took almost 50pb \Gamma 1
   of data in the region of the O/ center of gravity to study the
   enhancement in the ss0 signal seen by E760 and attributed to formation
   of the 1P1 state. Unfortunately, the determination of the antiproton
   beam energy during the E835 run was affected by large systematic
   1e-mail: cester@fnal.gov; local contact - S. Pordes, e-mail:
   stephen@fnal.gov 1 uncertainties due to problems with the Accumulator
   Beam Position Monitor (BPM) system which were only identified late in
   the data taking. These problems have prevented us from achieving a
   reliable study of this narrow, low cross-section resonance. To estimate
   the luminosity required to complete the measurement in the next run, we
   assume that the measured background level of , 2pb is due to the p_p !
   + ss0 continuum process and can therefore not be further reduced.
   Another goal of the experiment is to detect the 1P1 state through the
   radiative decay to jc + fl ! 3fl. This would provide strong support to
   the interpretation of the E760 findings. The feasibility of this
   depends on our ability to eliminate the background from feed down from
   the 2ss0 and 3ss0 channels, and the rate for the 3fl final state. As
   mentioned, our new measurement of the B(jc ! flfl) gives a value lower
   than the E760 one. This, and the uncertainty on the background level
   that we will eventually achieve, make us increase the integrated
   luminosity estimate to a conservative figure of , 200pb \Gamma 1. j 0 c
   SearchWe performed a systematic scan in E835 to search for the j 0 c
   taking\Delta E cm = 5 MeV steps and covering the region 3575 ^ Ecm(MeV)
   ^ 3660 with a luminosity at each point of 1:5pb \Gamma 1. In all, we
   took 36pb\Gamma 1 of data and their analysis is in progress. At this
   time there is no obvious signal and the product of branching ratios B(j
   0 c ! p_p) \Theta B(j 0 c ! flfl) seems to be considerablylower than
   expected from simple calculations based on known charmonium formation
   and decay rates. As with the all-neutral final state in the 1P1 study,
   feed-down from ss0ss0 and ss0fl final states is the main source of
   background and we are working on the analysis to reduce this. It is
   however clear at this point that unless we find a signal in some other
   (and so far unstudied) decay channel (3j; jssss:::), it will not be
   easy to find this state in the next run. (Guidance from theory that
   allows us to limit the range of our search would obviously be a help.)
   Our present request, therefore, is for 100 pb \Gamma 1, a factor \Theta
   3 over what we collected in E835. Study of the O/0 The energy of
   formation of the O/0 was close to the Accumulator transition energy
   where beam conditions were highly unstable. Toward the end of the run,
   however, we managed to collect 2.6 pb \Gamma 1 around the O/ 0 and
   performed a preliminary measurement of the resonance parameters in the
   fl decay channel. A measurement of the partial decay width to flfl is
   important and we expect a precise value with an integrated luminosity
   of 20pb \Gamma 1. 2 Requirements for the Proposed Run A summary of the
   integrated luminosity required to complete the three measurements is
   given in Table 1. We would like of course, if possible, to perform the
   other measurements outlined in the E835 proposal. The success of the
   experiment will depend crucially on the Accumulator performance and on
   the ability of the detector to acquire high quality data at the rate
   required. Of these, we believe the Accumulator presents the bigger
   challenge. Beam Requirements: For the Accumulator, we need to realize
   at least part of the increased stacking rate projected for the collider
   program with the Main Injector. We understand that, with the new Main
   Injector, the stacking rate should reach values close to 20 mA/hour.
   While we do not expect this to be the case during our data taking, we
   are assuming a significant improvement over the 2.5 to 3.5 mA/hour
   typical rates of the E835 run. The planned Accumulator modifications
   will result in a shift of the transition c.m. energy from , 3400 MeV (j
   = :023 at injection energy) to approximately 3650 MeV (j = :012 at
   injection energy). This implies that the formation energy for all
   states, with the exception of the 0 and of the D-states, will be below
   transition. Efficiency and speed in the deceleration process are
   therefore essential. The j 0 c may be very close to the transition
   energy and toachieve stable beam condition may require modifying the
   Accumulator lattice to shift the transition energy. To study narrow
   states - notably the 1P1 - we need the beam energy to be stable and to
   determine the c.m. energy to better than 50 keV. The experience of E835
   teaches us that we need a fully functional and well monitored BPM
   system. The momentum spread of the beam of order 2 \Theta 10 \Gamma 4
   as achieved in E760 and E835 will be adequate. Luminosity Improvements:
   If we assume stable running for a period of six months, we would need
   to collect , 12pb \Gamma 1 per week to complete the program outlined in
   Table 1. During E835 we typically ran at an instantaneous luminosity of
   2:5 \Theta 1031cm \Gamma 2sec\Gamma 1; the peak integrated luminosity
   in one week was 7:5pb \Gamma 1 with routine running (above transition!)
   of , 5pb \Gamma 1 per week. In this regime the experiment deadtime was
   a few percent and all detectors could be operated comfortably. To 3
   assess the problems related to increasing the instantaneous luminosity,
   at the end of the data taking we had a test run at an instantaneous
   luminosity of 5:5 \Theta 1031cm \Gamma 2sec\Gamma 1 at the energy
   corresponding to the peak of the O/ 2 resonance. With the exception of
   the wire chamber nearest to the beam-pipe, all detectors could still
   take the rates comfortably. In the data taking configuration at that
   time, the dead time increased to , 10% and we observed an inefficiency
   for neutral triggers caused by accidentals in the charged particle
   veto. We have studied these data and concluded that with some careful
   but minor modifications to the detector we could run at an
   instantaneous luminosity twice as high as in the E835 data taking. The
   beam consumption in this running was measured to be 2.5 mA/hr. One of
   the major improvements of E835 over E760 was in the range of density
   and the control system of the Jet Target that allowed us to run at
   constant instantaneous luminosity as the antiproton current decreased.
   The maximum target density achieved in E835 was 3 \Theta 1014atoms=cm 3
   which implies beam currents greater than , 40 mA to produce
   instantaneous rates of 5 \Theta 1031cm \Gamma 2sec\Gamma 1. With an
   initial stack of 80 mA and a beam consumption rate of 2.5 mA/hr we
   would collect, over 12 hours of data taking, an integrated luminosity
   of , 2:2pb \Gamma 1. Assuming a stacking rate of 10 mA/hour, this mode
   of operation would result in a 24 hour cycle and hence to an integrated
   luminosity per week of , 15pb \Gamma 1. Given our experience, however,
   we are not optimistic about the feasibility of taking a stack larger
   than 40 mA below transition and are studying modifications of the jet
   target to increase its maximum density. Apparatus modifications: We are
   studying what modifications need to be made to the apparatus to ensure
   quality data and high efficiency at the higher luminosity of the
   proposed run. We are not considering any major changes to the Central
   Calorimeter, the Cerenkov counters, the outer hodoscopes or the
   Luminosity Monitor. The trigger hodoscopes require some attention and
   we are looking at the possibility of increasing the granularity of the
   hodoscope closest to the beampipe from 8 to 16 counters. The
   scintillating fiber tracker proved reliable and capable of handling our
   rates. It enables us to trigger at specific ` (polar angle) ranges and
   we are looking at construction of an inner barrel which would
   significantly improve our ` resolution. We would do this within the
   constraints of the existing cryogenic infrastructure. 4 Most of the
   electronics in E835 performed very well and will be adequate for the
   proposed run. We plan to fix some operational issues with the
   Calorimeter signal shapers. We would require additional FERA ADC's for
   the extra fibers and we would like to replace the PCOS latches on the
   scintillating fibers with TDC's. The Dart based DAQ system would remain
   essentially as is. We would require the addition of 2 or 3 more readout
   controllers (DYC's) and request an upgrade of the computing power in
   the level 3 filter to handle the increased data rate. Table 1:
   Luminosity and Beam Requirements state decay mode Int.Lum.(pb \Gamma 1)
   Beam Requirements ! fl O/0 20 ! flfl j 0 c ! flfl 100 Shift of flT (?)
   ! ss0 1P 1 200 ! 50keV on energy ! jcfl 5
