http://www.treasurer.ca.gov/boards.htm

                      Boards, Authorities & Commissions

   The Treasurer's Office plays a central administrative role to numerous
   State Boards, Authorities and Commissions. The Treasurer serves as
   chair or member of these various agencies that organizationally report
   to the State Treasurer's Office. Many of these agencies are authorized
   to issue debt for specific purposes as permitted by law. These agencies
   also may advise California municipalities on debt issuance and oversee
   the State's various investment operations.

   Click on a title to visit an agency's web site


   list item California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
   Financing Authority (CAEATFA)
   Finances facilities that use alternative methods and sources of energy
   technology to minimize environmental pollution and conserve resources,
   including the development of advanced transportation technologies.
   Katrina Johantgen, Executive Director (213) 620-4467
   list item California Debt and Investment Advisory Commission (CDIAC)
   Provides information, education and advice with respect to public debt
   and investment activities to state and local agencies. It serves as the
   States clearinghouse for information on public debt issuance and local
   investment practices. CDIAC also provides policy guidance on debt and
   investment matters to state and local agencies.
   Lisa M. Harris, Executive Director (916) 653-3269
   list item California Debt Limit Allocation Committee (CDLAC)
   Allocates California’s $2.116 billion in annual tax-exempt, low cost
   financing for private projects of public benefit — such as single
   family home mortgages, affordable multi-family housing, industrial
   development projects, environmental clean-up efforts, and student
   lending.
   Laurie Weir, Executive Director (916) 653-3255
   list item California Educational Facilities Authority (CEFA)
   Issues revenue bonds to assist accredited post-secondary private
   institutions in the expansion and construction of educational
   facilities through lower-cost financing. The authority also administers
   low-interest student loan programs.
   Terry Partington, Acting Executive Director (916) 653-2872
   list item California Health Facilities Financing Authority (CHFFA)
   Provides financial assistance to public and non-profit health care
   providers through loans funded by the issuance of tax-exempt revenue
   bonds. CHFFA financing may be used for the construction and renovation
   of new or existing health care facilities, the purchase of equipment,
   or the refinancing or refunding of prior debt. CHFFA administers the
   HELP II Loan Program, which provides low-cost loans to small health
   facilities. In addition, CHFFA administers the Cedillo-Alarcón
   Community Clinic Investment Act of 2000, a one-time $50 million grant
   program for California's community clinics.
   Sumi Sousa, Executive Director (916) 653-2799
   list item California Industrial Development Financing Advisory
   Commission (CIDFAC)
   Provides technical assistance to city and county authorities that issue
   Industrial Development Bonds (IDBs), independently reviews IDB
   applications for compliance with federal and state requirements, and
   approves the sale of IDBs by local authorities. The program is intended
   to benefit economically distressed areas and to provide an alternative
   method of financing capital outlays that will increase employment or
   otherwise contribute to economic development.
   Joanie Jones-Kelly, Executive Director (916) 653-3843
   list item California Pollution Control Financing Authority (CPCFA)
   Provides financing for pollution control facilities to aid in meeting
   environmental standards. CPCFA also administers the California Capital
   Access Program, which assists small businesses in obtaining loans
   through lending institutions.  Under the program, over $392 million in
   loans have been made to small businesses as of June 30 2000.
   Additionally CPCFA is launching a program to assist in redeveloping
   contaminated 'brownfields', and providing Smart Growth Grants to
   communities that lack the resources to implement smart growth
   strategies.
   Steven Sakurai, Executive Director (916) 654-5610
   list item California School Finance Authority (CSFA)
   Provides tax-exempt, low cost financing to school districts to assist
   in the repair and construction of school facilities.  CSFA recently
   launched a new program, "Smart Bonds," under which the State issues
   pooled bonds enabling districts to borrow more efficiently and less
   expensively than they would otherwise be able to do on their own.
   Katrina Johantgen, Executive Director (213) 620-4467
   list item California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (CTCAC)
   Administers a federal and state program, which provides hundreds of
   millions of dollars of investment in affordable rental housing for
   lower-income families and individuals. Federal and state tax credits,
   allocated by the Committee, assist in the creation and preservation of
   affordable housing by enabling affordable housing sponsors to raise
   project equity through the sale of tax benefits to investors.
   Jeanne Peterson, Executive Director (916) 654-6340
   list item California Urban Waterfront Area Restoration Financing
   Authority (CUWARFA)
   Approves and issues revenue bonds to finance enhancement projects to
   restore urban waterfront areas.
   Barbara Lloyd, Deputy Treasurer (916) 653-2995
   list item ScholarShare Investment Board (SIB)
   Sets investment policies and oversees all activities for the Golden
   State ScholarShare College Savings Trust, California's tax-deferred
   college tuition savings plan, which enables Californians to invest and
   save for college education with state and federal tax-deferred
   benefits.
   Carrie Douglas-Fong, Executive Director (916) 653-2995

   list item Complete List of Boards, Authorities & Commissions
   Home Back
