http://www4.sss.gov/privacy.htm

   Seal of the Selective Service System
   Registration Information About the Agency News and Public Affairs
   Publications History and Records What Happens in a Draft

   Fast Facts

   Registration Information Banner

   Privacy Act Statement

   The Military Selective Service Act, Selective Service regulations, and
   the President's Proclamation on Registration require that you provide
   the indicated information, including your Social Security Account
   Number. The principal purpose of the required information is to
   establish or verify your registration with the Selective Service
   System. This information may be furnished to other government agencies
   for the purposes stated below.
     * Department of Justice - for review and processing of suspected
       violations of the Military Selective Service Act (MSSA), for
       perjury, and for defense of a civil action arising from
       administrative processing under such Act.

     * Department of State and U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
       - for collection and evaluation of data to determine a person's
       eligibility for entry/reentry into the United States and for United
       States Citizenship.

     * Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard - to exchange data
       concerning registration, classification, induction, and examination
       of registrants and for identification of prospects for recruiting.

     * Department of Labor - to assist veterans in need of data concerning
       reemployment rights, and for determination of eligibility for
       benefits under the Job Training Partnership Act.

     * Department of Education - to determine eligibility for student
       financial assistance.
     * Bureau of the Census - for the purposes of planning or carrying out
       a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions
       of Title 13.
     * Office of Personnel Management and U.S. Postal Service - to
       determine eligibility for employment.

     * Department of Health and Human Services - to determine a person's
       proper Social Security Account Number and for locating parents
       pursuant to the Child Support Enforcement Act [ 42 U.S.C. 653 (e)
       (2) ].

     * State and Local Governments - to provide data which may constitute
       evidence and facilitate the enforcement of state and local law.

     * Alternative Service Employers - to exchange information with
       employers regarding a registrant who is a conscientious objector
       for the purpose of placement and supervision of performance of
       alternative service in lieu of induction into the military service.

     * General Public - Registrant's name, Selective Service Number, date
       of birth and classification, Military Selective Service Act,
       Section 6, (50 U.S.C., App. 456h).

   Failure to provide the required information may violate the Military
   Selective Service Act. Conviction for such a violation may result in
   imprisonment for up to five years and/or a fine of not more than
   $250,000.

          FAQs | Contact SSS | Related Links | Check a Registration

                                  Red Line

     Home | Registration Info | About the Agency | News & Public Affairs
     Publications | History/Records | What Happens in a Draft | Site Map

                            Revised May 28, 2001
