http://www.mcdot.maricopa.gov/tab/agenda/2002/021902.pdf

   DRAFT AGENDA Tuesday, February 19, 2002 222 E. Javelina Mesa, Arizona
   Pursuant to A.R.S. 38-431.02, notice is hereby given to the general
   public that the Maricopa County Transportation Advisory Board will hold
   its regularly scheduled Formal Session at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday,
   February 19, 2002. This meeting will be held in the Maricopa County SE
   Judicial Complex at 222 E. Javelina in Mesa, Arizona. Matters on the
   agenda may be discussed in Executive Session for the purpose of
   obtaining legal advice thereon. The Board was offered written materials
   pertaining to agenda items prior to the meeting. (This material is
   available upon request to the Maricopa County Department of
   Transportation.) The Board retains the right to take agenda items out
   of order as needed for quorum or other purposes. Agenda items with
   staff presentations are so noted. Staff is available to clarify or
   address any related comments. For additional information, please
   contact Cheryl Spencer, TAB Board Assistant at 602-506-4608. REGULAR
   BUSINESS 1. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE INTRODUCTIONS CALL TO THE PUBLIC (This
   is the time for the public to comment. Members of the Board may not
   discuss items that are not specifically identified on the agenda.
   Therefore, pursuant to A.R.S. 38-431.01 (G), action taken as a result
   of public comment will be limited to directing staff to study the
   matter, responding to any criticism or scheduling the matter for
   further consideration and decision at a later date). 2. APPROVAL OF THE
   MINUTES Presentation: None scheduled Suggested Action: It is moved the
   Transportation Advisory Board approve the minutes of the Tuesday,
   January 15, 2002, TAB meeting as submitted. GENERAL BUSINESS 3.
   OVERVIEW OF EAST VALLEY PROJECTS Presentation: Richard Bohan, Community
   and Government Relations Division Suggested Action: Discussion only. 4.
   2003 TIP BUDGET Presentation: Chuck Williams, Engineering Suggested
   Action: Discussion and possible action. TAB Agenda February 19, 2002
   Page 1 of 2 pages 5. STANDARD REPORTS Presentation: None scheduled
   Suggested Action: Information only Reports included: Board of
   Supervisors Action Summaries Design Project Update Report Construction
   Status Report 6. DIRECTOR'S UPDATE 7. TAB FORUM - (This section of the
   agenda allows TAB members to share information regarding a variety of
   transportation-related issues in a public forum.) 8. NEXT MEETING DATE
   March 19, 2002 9. CALL TO ADJOURN NOTE: Maricopa County has an
   aggressive strategy to provide accessibility for all citizens to its
   programs, activities, and services, as required by the Americans with
   Disabilities Act (ADA). The County's ADA Transition Plan, which defines
   architectural modifications needed in more than 250 building sites, has
   been completed. Removal of accessibility barriers is underway and we
   are working with building owners to achieve compliance at leased
   facilities. Accessibility will be assured programmatically until
   construction has been completed. The Maricopa County Self-Evaluation is
   in progress. Citizens Advisory Council oversees our ADA compliance
   efforts. A sign language interpreter, alternative format materials, or
   infrared assisted listening devices are available with 72 hours notice.
   Additional reasonable accommodations will be made available to the
   extent possible within the time frame of the request. TAB Agenda
   February 19, 2002 Page 2 of 2 pages
