http://www.csb.gov/lib/bhopal01.htm

   [dot_clear.gif] [dot_clear.gif] [dot_clear.gif]

               WHY CHEMICAL SAFETY?
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
                      ABOUT THE CSB
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
              INVESTIGATIONS & NEWS
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
           CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
   CHEMICAL INCIDENT REPORTS CENTER
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
                          CHEMLINKS
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
                     E-MAIL UPDATES
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
               CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]
       REPORTING CHEMICAL INCIDENTS
                  [dot_6699CC.gif]

   corner QUICK SEARCH corner

          (*) Web Site ( ) CIRC
   ____________
   Click Here to Submit Your Search

   corner [dot_006699.gif] corner


   U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   CSB - Library
   Site Navigation
      Bhopal Disaster Spurs U.S. Industry, Legislative Action

      The Union Carbide Plant, Bhopal, India.
      The Bhopal Plant - The Union Carbide Plant, Bhopal, India, site of a
      December, 1984 chemical gas leak which killed and injured thousands.
      Photo by Chris Rainier, Copyright Corbis.
        * Introduction
        * The Incident and the Lawsuit
        * Legislation Resulting From the Incident
        * Bibliography


   Introduction

      Just after midnight on December 3, 1984, a pesticide plant in Bhopal,
      India accidentally released approximately 40 metric tons of methyl
      isocyanate into the atmosphere. The incident was a catastrophe for
      Bhopal with an estimated 2000 casualties, 100,000 injuries, and
      significant damage to livestock and crops. The long-term health effects
      from such an incident are difficult to evaluate; the International
      Medical Commission on Bhopal^1 estimated that as of 1994 upwards of
      50,000 people remained partially or totally disabled.



   corner HEALTH EFFECTS corner



   "The long-term health effects from such an incident are difficult to
   evaluate; the International Medical Commission on Bhopal^1 estimated
   that as of 1994 upwards of 50,000 people remained partially or totally
   disabled."

      The incident had serious implications for U.S. based multi-national
      corporations, both at home and abroad: the U.S. based Union Carbide
      Corporation was the parent company to the Bhopal plant operator Union
      Carbide India Ltd., commonly referred to as UCIL. Questions that would
      be addressed in the ensuing trial included:

        * Should Union Carbide be held responsible for the design of,
          maintenance for, and training on equipment at the Bhopal plant?
        * Should Union Carbide be responsible for informing the local
          government and community of the hazards associated with the plant?



   corner POSITIVE REACTION corner


   "...the Bhopal incident is cited as a factor in the development of
   industry standards ... and the development and implementation of U.S.
   environmental legislation and regulations..."
      The ultimate cause of the incident remains in contention. However, the
      Bhopal incident is cited as a factor in the development of industry
      standards like Responsible Care^® under the Chemical Manufacturers
      Association and the development and implementation of U.S.
      environmental legislation and regulations, including the creation of
      The U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.

      The pesticide plant was located approximately 3-4 miles outside the
      city center of Bhopal. At the time of the incident, the plant employed
      630 people. Bhopal had a population of 900,000 people with a community
      of squatters situated immediately outside of the plant boundary.

      The plant started to produce the pesticide SEVIN in 1969. Methyl
      isocyanate (commonly referred to as MIC) is an intermediate chemical in
      SEVIN production. For the first decade of operation the plant imported
      MIC from a Union Carbide sister plant located in Institute, WV. In the
      late 1970s, the plant added a MIC production unit with a design based
      on the Institute, WV plant.

      MIC produced at the plant was stored in two of three 15,000 gallon
      tanks. One tank was kept empty at all times for reserve storage
      capacity in the event of an emergency. The tanks were partially buried
      and equipped with safety relief valves. The vented MIC passed through a
      sodium hydroxide scrubber and flare towers. Union Carbide's degree of
      involvement, and therefore degree of responsibility for the incident,
      in the Bhopal plant design, operation, system maintenance, and operator
      training were contentions during the trial.

      Between 1979 and 1982, the Bhopal plant underwent three Union Carbide
      audits. According to Union Carbide, the last audit was a 1982,
      "Operational Safety Survey," conducted at the request of UCIL
      management. The Survey found "major concerns" in the MIC production
      unit that could lead to serious personnel exposures. Whether Union
      Carbide or UCIL held responsibility for implementing the Survey's
      recommendations was a contention during the trial.


   The Incident
   and The Lawsuit
      At 11:30 PM on December 2, 1984 workers at the Bhopal plant detected a
      MIC release. The workers informed their supervisor. At approximately
      12:45 am on December 3, workers observed a rapid pressure increase in
      one of the MIC storage tanks, which opened the safety relief valve. The
      venting MIC passed out of the facility and into the atmosphere. Three
      days after the release, a lawsuit was initiated in the U.S. courts.

      Both Union Carbide and the Government of India sponsored investigations
      into the incident; however, both Union Carbide and the Government of
      India were parties to the associated lawsuit. As a result, there are
      very few issues about the incident that were not in dispute. For
      example, both parties agreed that the MIC release was due to a violent
      reaction from the inappropriate introduction of water into the storage
      tank. How the water reached the tank and the capacity of the plant to
      safely handle this problem were issues addressed in the trial.



   corner MANY LAWSUITS corner


   "When the cases were combined in the U.S. court system, there were
   approximately 145 actions involving 200,000 plaintiffs."
      In 1985, the Government of India passed the Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster
      Act. This Act made the Government of India the representative for all
      individuals seeking compensation from the incident. When the cases were
      combined in the U.S. court system, there were approximately 145 actions
      involving 200,000 plaintiffs. In 1986, the U.S. District Court of
      Southern New York found in favor of Union Carbide, and directed that
      the trial be moved to India.

      The Government of India contended that Union Carbide was actively
      involved in the detailed plant design, and that while finalizing the
      plant design Union Carbide intentionally reduced or eliminated safety
      items. During plant operation Union Carbide purportedly neglected
      oversight and responsibility, including ensuring that appropriate
      maintenance was conducted, or that the recommendations of audit teams
      were implemented. For example, the MIC should have vented through a
      scrubber and flare tower before exiting the facility, but a leaking
      vent line released the MIC directly to the atmosphere. Moreover, the
      MIC that did reach the scrubber was not removed because neither the
      scrubber or flare tower was operational at the time of the incident. If
      all MIC reached the scrubber, and the scrubber and flare tower were
      operational, there may still have been a release since it is believed
      that the venting MIC would have exceeded the scrubber design capacity.

      Union Carbide disputed these claims, stating that although it had
      provided the basic MIC unit design to UCIL, the Government of India had
      prohibited Union Carbide's active participation in the final plant
      design. Union Carbide asserted that it had provided appropriate
      training, including bringing some workers to Institute, WV for
      training, and that the safety procedures were appropriate; however,
      Union Carbide contended that the UCIL management was generally
      responsible for safety and maintenance at the plant and that the
      government of India was the responsible regulator. Ultimately, after
      reviewing the plant records, interviewing plant employees, and studying
      the incident, Union Carbide concluded that the MIC storage tank was
      sabotaged.

      The trial ended in 1989 when the Supreme Court of India ordered Union
      Carbide and UCIL to pay $470 million in damages to the Government of
      India. The settlement was challenged in 1991. The Courts upheld the
      civil settlement, but allowed the criminal case to be reopened. The
      criminal case remains open today, and Union Carbide has sold its stake
      in UCIL.


   Legislation Resulting
   From The Incident
      In August, 1985, the Union Carbide sister plant in Institute, WV
      released a cloud of methylene chloride and aldicarb oxide that affected
      four neighboring communities and led to the hospitalization of over 100
      people. In the wake of this and the Bhopal incident, the U.S. Congress
      passed the 1986 Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act.
      This act, implemented by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
      facilitates state and local accident contingency planning, public
      participation, and access by individuals and communities to information
      regarding hazardous materials in their locales.



   corner COULD IT HAPPEN HERE? corner



   "...17 U.S. incidents released sufficient volumes of chemicals with
   such toxicity that the potential consequences could have been more
   severe than in Bhopal. ...the Senate concluded that accident prevention
   had not been given sufficient attention in the existing Federal
   programs."

      In 1990, while developing the Clean Air Act Amendments, the Senate
      considered an EPA analysis that compared U.S. chemical incidents in the
      early to mid- 1980s to the Bhopal incident. Of the 29 incidents
      considered, 17 U.S. incidents released sufficient volumes of chemicals
      with such toxicity that the potential consequences (depending on
      weather conditions and plant location) could have been more severe than
      in Bhopal. Based on the incident review and existing State and Federal
      U.S. programs, the Senate concluded that accident prevention had not
      been given sufficient attention in the existing Federal programs.

      As a result of this analysis, the Amendments tasked the EPA and the
      Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to develop
      programs to prevent chemical incidents. Congress authorized EPA to
      promulgate the Risk Management Program Rule (40 CFR 68) for protection
      of the public, and OSHA to promulgate the Process Safety Management
      Standard (29 CFR 1910.119) to protect workers. The two programs share a
      requirement for covered facilities to develop accident prevention
      plans; other provisions are complementary.

      The Amendments also established the independent U.S. Chemical Safety
      and Hazard Investigation Board (42 U.S.C. 7412). Using the National
      Transportation Safety Board as a model, the Amendments tasked the Board
      with investigating and reporting on the causes and probable causes of
      domestic chemical incidents. Moreover, the Senate recommended that the
      Board provide investigative assistance to other countries both as a
      means of helping and as a means of learning. Through its international
      outreach efforts to government and industry, the Board can ensure its
      safety research program, professional services and technical
      information accurately and adequately address the world's chemical
      safety

      Bibliography

      1 "TED Case Studies: Bhopal Disaster," Trade and the Environment
      Database, 1996.

      Ashford, N.A.; Gobbell, J.G.; Lachman, J.; Matiesen, M.; Minzner, A.;
      Stone, R.; "The Encouragement of Technological Change for Preventing
      Chemical Accidents: Moving Firms From Secondary Prevention and
      Mitigation to Primary Prevention," Center for Technology, Policy and
      Industrial Development, MIT, Cambridge, MA, July 1993.

      Browning, Jackson B., "Union Carbide: Disaster at Bhopal," Bhopal, 1993

      Cullinan, P.; Acquilla, S.; Ramana Dhara V.; on behalf of the
      International Medical Commission on Bhopal, "Respiratory morbidity 10
      years after the Union Carbide gas leak at Bhopal: a cross sectional
      survey," BMJ 1997;314:338.

      Documents and Court Opinions on Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster Case: for a
      Course on Tort II (Industrial and Mass Torts), N.R. Madhava, Ed.
      Bangalore, National Law School of Indian University, 1991.

      International Medical Commission on Bhopal, Press Release dated
      December 3, 1996.

      Kalelkar, A.S.; Little, Arthur D., "Investigation of Large-Magnitude
      Incidents: Bhopal as a case study," Chemical Engineers Conference on
      Preventing Major Chemical Accidents, London, England, May 1988; Bhopal

      Montague, Peter; "Carbide Officials Face Homicide Charges in Bhopal,
      India, Court," Rachel Hazardous Waste News #58, Environmental Research
      Foundation, January 4, 1988.

      Montague, Peter; "From Bhopal with Love," Rachel Hazardous Waste News
      #170, Environmental Research Foundation, February 28, 1990.

      Montague, Peter; "Union Carbide Says Indian Failed to Regulate Union
      Carbide, Thus Bears Responsibility for Bhopal," Rachel Hazardous Waste
      News, Environmental Research Foundation, February 9, 1987.

      Senate Report 101-228 at p. 134 reprinted in 1990 USSCAN at 3519.

      Endnote:
      ^1The Implications of the Industrial Disaster in Bhopal India. Hearing
      Before the Subcommittee on Asian and Pacific Affairs of the Committee
      on Foreign Affairs. House of Representatives, 98th Congress, Second
      Session, December 12, 1984.

      What is methyl isocyanate?
      Methyl isocyanate is an organic chemical that is used in the production
      of pesticides. Methyl isocyanate, commonly referred to as MIC, is
      extremely toxic to humans. Short-term exposure may cause death or
      adverse health effects including pulmonary edema (respiratory
      inflammation), bronchitis, bronchial pneumonia, and reproductive
      effects. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration's
      permissible exposure limit to MIC over a normal 8 hour work day or a 40
      hour workweek is 0.05 mg/m3.

      Author: Amy Bryce, Environmental Engineer

   PAGE LAST UPDATED: JULY 29, 1999
                                [dot_6699CC.gif]
   U.S. Chemical Safety Board
   info@csb.gov                                              Home | Top of Page
                             Site Help | Search | Feedback | Contact | Library
