http://www.ftc.gov/bios/commissioners.htm




   Federal Trade Commission Commissioners
   Commissioners
   The Commission is headed by five Commissioners, nominated by the
   President and confirmed by the Senate, each serving a seven-year term.
   The President chooses one Commissioner to act as Chairman. No more than
   three Commissioners can be of the same political party. The current
   Chairman and Commissioners are:

                          Navy Blue Divider - Full


                   Photograph of Chairman Timothy J. Muris
   Timothy J. Muris, Chairman

   Timothy J. Muris was sworn in June 4, 2001 as Chairman of the Federal
   Trade Commission. President George W. Bush named Muris, a Republican,
   on April 26, 2001 and he was confirmed by the Senate on May 25, 2001.
   Muris, 51, is the Commission's 55^th Chairman.

   Muris has held three previous positions at the Commission: Assistant
   Director of the Planning Office (1974-1976), Director of the Bureau of
   Consumer Protection (1981-1983), and Director of the Bureau of
   Competition (1983-1985).

   After leaving the FTC in 1985, Muris served with the Executive Office
   of the President, Office of Management and Budget for three years, and
   afterward as Of Counsel with the law firm of Collier, Shannon, Rill &
   Scott (1992-2000) and Howrey, Simon, Arnold & White (2000-2001). Muris
   joined George Mason University School of Law as a Foundation Professor
   in 1988 and was interim dean of the law school from 1996 to 1997.

   Muris graduated with high honors from San Diego State University in
   1971 and received his J.D. from UCLA in 1974. He was awarded Order of
   the Coif and was associate editor of the UCLA Law Review. A member of
   the American Bar Association's Antitrust Section, Muris has written
   widely on antitrust, consumer protection, regulatory, and budget
   issues. In 1981, he served as the Deputy Counsel to the Presidential
   Task Force on Regulatory Relief.

   Muris resides in Oakton, Virginia with his wife, Pamela Harmon, and
   three children.


   Navy Blue Divider - Full


   Photograph of Commissioner Sheila F. Anthony Sheila F. Anthony,
   Commissioner

   Sheila F. Anthony was sworn in as a member of the Federal Trade
   Commission on September 30, 1997. President Clinton named Anthony, a
   Democrat, to a term that expires on September 25, 2002.

   Anthony had served as Assistant Attorney General for the Office of
   Legislative Affairs at the Department of Justice from 1993 to 1995. As
   Assistant Attorney General, Anthony was the liaison between the
   Department and Congress, and the liaison to the White House Legislative
   Affairs Office. In addition she was responsible for implementing the
   strategy to carry out the Department's legislative initiatives. Prior
   to government service, she practiced law at Dow, Lohnes & Albertson in
   Washington, D.C. where she specialized in intellectual property law,
   including trademark, copyright, unfair competition, litigation,
   licensing, and technology transfer.

   A native of Hope, Arkansas, Anthony attended Randolph-Macon Woman's
   College and received her B.A. degree in American Government from the
   University of Arkansas in 1962. She is a graduate of Washington College
   of Law, American University and is a member of the Bars of the District
   of Columbia and the Supreme Court of Arkansas.

   Anthony lives in Washington, D.C. with her husband, the former U.S.
   Representative Beryl Anthony.


   Navy Blue Divider - Full


   Photograph of Commissioner Mozelle W. Thompson

   Mozelle W. Thompson

   Mozelle W. Thompson was sworn in as a Commissioner on the Federal Trade
   Commission December 17, 1997.

   Mr. Thompson most recently held the position of Principal Deputy
   Assistant Secretary at the Department of the Treasury where he was
   responsible for overseeing domestic spending and credit policies,
   including the operations of the Federal Financing Bank and the Office
   of Government Financing. Mr. Thompson was also responsible for creating
   the Office of Privatization, which among its activities provides
   guidance on the privatization of federal assets and operations, and for
   developing the financial assistance plan for the District of Columbia.
   Mr. Thompson was initially appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary in
   August 1993, and served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary from
   April 1996 until his appointment to the Commission.
   Prior to joining the Treasury Department, Mr. Thompson served as Senior
   Vice President and General Counsel to the New York State Finance Agency
   and its four sister corporations. In addition, he was an adjunct
   associate professor at the Fordham University School of Law where he
   taught courses in municipal law and finance. Mr. Thompson also was an
   attorney with the New York firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and
   Flom.

   Mr. Thompson is a graduate of Columbia College and Columbia Law School.
   He also holds an M.P.A. from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson
   School of Public and International Affairs where he is currently a
   Visiting Lecturer, co-teaching a policy workshop on the Next Generation
   Internet. After graduating law school, Mr. Thompson served as law clerk
   to U.S. District Court Judge William M. Hoeveler in Miami, Florida.

   Mr. Thompson currently leads the United States delegation to the
   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Consumer
   Policy Committee where he also serves as Vice Chairman. Mr. Thompson is
   also past president of the International Marketing Supervision Network
   (IMSN), an association of international consumer protection enforcement
   agencies.

   Mr. Thompson has been active in a number of professional and civic
   organizations, including the Association of Black Princeton Alumni and
   the Executive Board of Practicing Attorneys for Law Students, a
   mentoring organization assisting African-American and Latino law
   students. He is presently Vice President of the Columbia College Alumni
   Association, and is a member of the bar in New York State and the
   District of Columbia.

   Mr. Thompson was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and is the son of
   Charles and Eiko Suzaki Thompson of West Babylon, New York.


   Navy Blue Divider - Full


   Photograph of Commissioner Orson Swindle Orson Swindle

   Orson Swindle was sworn in as a Republican Commissioner on the Federal
   Trade Commission December 18, 1997. Commissioner Swindle was appointed
   in December, 2001 as head of the United States Delegation to the
   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Experts
   Group to review the 1992 OECD Guidelines for the Security of
   Information Systems.

   Mr. Swindle has had a distinguished military career and served in the
   Reagan Administration from 1981 to 1989 directing financial assistance
   programs to economically distressed rural and municipal areas of the
   country. As Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Development he managed
   the Department of Commerce's national economic development efforts
   directing seven offices across the country. Mr. Swindle was State
   Director of the Farmers Home Administration for the U.S. Department of
   Agriculture financing rural housing, community infrastructure,
   businesses, and farming.

   In 1992, Mr. Swindle became the first national leader of United We
   Stand America and in 1993 worked with Jack Kemp, Vin Weber, William
   Bennett and Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick to form Empower America. In
   1994 and in 1996 he was a Republican candidate for Congress in Hawaii's
   1st Congressional District.

   As a Marine aviator serving in South Vietnam on November 11, 1966, Mr.
   Swindle was shot down from the skies over North Vietnam while flying
   his 205th and last combat mission.

   He was captured by the North Vietnamese and held Prisoner of War in
   Hanoi for the next six years and four months. On March 4, 1973, Mr.
   Swindle was released from captivity.

   Mr. Swindle retired from the U.S. Marine Corps in 1979 with the rank of
   Lieutenant Colonel. His 20 military decorations for valor in combat
   include two Silver Stars, two Bronze Stars, and two Purple Hearts.

   Mr. Swindle earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial
   Management from Georgia Tech in 1959 and a Master of Business
   Administration from Florida State University in 1975.

   He was born in Thomasville, Georgia, on March 8, 1937, and grew up in
   Camilla, Georgia. He and his wife, Angie live in Alexandria, Virginia.


   Navy Blue Divider - Full


   Photograph of Commissioner Thomas B. Leary
   Thomas B. Leary

   Thomas B. Leary was sworn in as a Commissioner at the Federal Trade
   Commission on November 17, 1999. His term on the five-member Commission
   expires in 2005.

   Before his service on the Federal Trade Commission, Mr. Leary was a
   partner at Hogan & Hartson, in Washington, D.C., since 1983. His
   practice was principally in the area of antitrust and trade regulation.

   Before becoming a partner at Hogan & Hartson, Mr. Leary was the
   Assistant General Counsel of General Motors, with overall
   responsibility for antitrust, consumer protection and commercial law
   matters.

   Before joining General Motors, he was a partner at White & Case in New
   York. Mr. Leary received his undergraduate degree in economics from
   Princeton University and a law degree from Harvard Law School, where he
   was an editor and an officer of the Harvard Law Review.

   He served as an Air Intelligence Officer on active duty in the United
   States Navy from 1952-1955.

                              [sub_divider.gif]

      Contact Us | Search | Complaint Form | Privacy | Site Map | Home

                  Last Updated: Thursday, December 27, 2001
