http://counter.chp.ca.gov/html/transcript.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                        California Highway Patrol
                        Commissioner's Welcome
                        Q & A
                        Publications
                        What We Do
                        Offices
                        News and Public Notices
                        History
                        Careers
                        Traffic Incidents
                        Related Sites
                        Site Map

                          * Office of Public Affairs

                          * Regulatory Actions

                          * Meeting Notices



   CHP motto - 'Safety and Service'



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Anthrax Training Video - Transcript


   Statewide Address on Biological Threat Safety - October 14, 2001 -
   Transcript

   Commissioner D. O. Helmick

   Greetings. As you know the California Highway Patrol has the authority
   and responsibility to protect all state employees in buildings. This is
   a responsibility that we take very seriously, and therefore, at the
   request of Governor Gray Davis, we have been provided training to all
   state employees outlining the necessary precautions and procedures to
   take for any possible biological or chemical threat.

   We have developed this tape for those of you who have not been able to
   attend any of our statewide training, and ensure you are equally
   informed and prepared. The basic purpose of this tape is twofold:
   First, to educate those unfamiliar with the subject material; and
   secondly, to assure you the CHP is taking an active roll in protecting
   all state employees and facilities as well as ensuring you know what to
   do.

   Officer Vince Curry

   Good Afternoon. I would like to thank everyone for coming today. What
   we are going to talk about today is the events that have taken place
   recently concerning terrorist attacks and those biological agents. My
   name is Officer Vince Curry. I am with the California Highway Patrol
   Hazardous Materials and Biological Training Unit. I have been asked to
   come here and talk to you about these events.

   A little bit about the Highway Patrol - the Highway Patrol has already
   programs in effect to handle both biological and chemical events. Our
   hazardous materials response teams have been trained in this type of
   thing for many years, and this is something we have been training for.
   It is something that has come into the public eye and we are more than
   ready for this. We have trained, some say we have over-trained for it,
   but we would rather be prepared than not.

   Little bit of background on why the Highway Patrol is getting so
   involved. Government Code states that the Highway Patrol will be
   responsible in providing service and developing programs to deal with
   situations resulting in the harm of either state property, protection
   of state property, protection of state employees - being you. And that
   is why we are here today. We are here today to dispel some of the
   myths, some of the rumors that some of you have heard, and just to let
   you know that life is pretty good, and that there is nothing to really
   worry about.

   Getting on to it - I am going to tell you a little bit about
   micro-organisms. I am not going to get into an entire lab-type
   conference with you about it, but it is interesting stuff, and its been
   around for a long time. It's been around since the beginning. It's when
   it was used in weapons of war it becomes real interesting. Bacteria can
   be traced back to biological warfare only back to the 14th Century.
   Warring armies in the Ukraine that would take disease-infected
   cadavers, they would lob them into enemy camps and then they would
   leave and then let the bacteria take over and kill out the camps.
   Possibly our first drive-by ever recorded - could be - don't know -
   don't quote me on that, but sounds good. Another time, 1700's, officers
   of European nations used to take blankets from smallpox infirmaries and
   give them to the warring Indians just so they could infect the Indian
   tribes and bring them to smaller numbers, so that they could be
   defeated. Micro-biology, micro-organisms, biological warfare, long
   history, as we have already seen, it goes way back, but the problem
   that they have all had is that it is not a successful weapon. It does
   not succeed where others succeed at. You take just a standard bullet,
   take an explosive. These are far more effective. These are far more
   cost effective. Many of the people that try to produce these biological
   agents end up killing themselves in their own labs, in their own little
   makeshift ways. Those of us in law enforcement, we are used to seeing
   meth lab problems. Look at how many of these people cooking meth end up
   blowing themselves up in their own labs. Same situation. Very hard to
   implement it as a weapon. Very hard to successfully implement it as a
   weapon. Because of that, people have not gone to it as their primary
   weapon. So, though it has a long history, and it has some really unique
   milestones along the way, it has not been a successful weapon, and
   because of that, you are really not going to see it ever really used as
   a successful weapon.

   The world as we know it today is a complex world. I mean, it is full of
   everything. Everything from the best to the worst, and when you talk
   the worst, we are talking about people that don't always agree with
   what our great nation agrees with, what our allies agree with, what the
   state agrees with. It can be either a terrorist cell or it can be a
   whole nation, but we have to keep vigilant in watching out for our
   interests. And in doing so, we sometimes upset other countries, other
   cells, other organizations, and whether that be through religion,
   rather than be through ideological or political beliefs, everybody's
   got a different view on things and a lot of people don't like our views
   period. Yes, we are the superpower, we are the United States, and a lot
   of people depending upon what their motivation is, or their motive for
   bringing their terror to us are jealous and that is the kind of world
   we live in today.

   What we are going to talk about is probably the party subject that is
   currently going on right now, and that is Anthrax. Anthrax has been
   around for a long time. It has been played with successfully and
   unsuccessfully, more the latter. I would love to show you 42 other
   really nasty viruses and bacteria that I have pictures of and case
   studies on, but they are really not going to be seen in this country.
   You are never going to see it. They are mostly held to undeveloped
   nations, places where dysentery and infections is really high, but
   because Anthrax is in the media right now, because it is a heightened
   thing on public awareness, we are going to talk to you a little bit
   about Anthrax today. Anthrax, what is it? What is Anthrax? It is a
   bacteria. A bacteria just like the common cold, just like the common
   flu, and because it is just like that, we are able to treat it just
   like that. As far as some precaution measures - we are always yelling
   at our children, "Don't put your hands in your mouth; don't touch your
   face;" you know, "Wash your hands with soap; make sure you stay clean."
   We are talking about hygiene. Common hygiene. I mean, more people
   contract the flu or cold from touching doorknobs or touching a
   telephone, or touching something that somebody already had the flu or
   cold and then touching their face or touching their mouth, or rubbing
   their eyes. If we can just practice some safe and clean hygiene, you
   know what, we are going to beat just about any micro-organism, and
   Anthrax is kind of the same way. As long as we practice good hygiene
   and cleanliness and things like that, we are not going to have any
   problems.

   How common is Anthrax, and who can get it? Well, it is not going to be
   common in the United States. In the last 10 years, outside of this last
   week, we have only seen two cases of Anthrax in the United States. I am
   happy to report California has never seen a case of Anthrax. We have
   received hoaxes, and we get hoaxes all the time about Anthrax, and we
   respond to them and we handle them just like a real case, but there has
   never been a case of Anthrax in the state of California. That could be
   because of our checks and balances that are in place. That could be
   because of the training that we go through and some of the other
   programs that we have that back us up. As far as who can get it, people
   who usually work with animal products, and these are usually in
   countries that don't have a really good veterinarian type system, or
   that don't have really good animal control. Once again, we are talking
   about a developing nation. People that really don't have any kind of
   checks and balances in place. We use the animal control system to
   regulate this. The United States has THE BEST animal control system
   there is. California is on top of it in the United States. We are the
   best in the United States, thus, it makes us probably the best in the
   world, here in this state. And because of that, because of that checks
   and balance system that we have in there, and everything else, like I
   have said before, we have still have never had a case of Anthrax here
   in the state of California. As far as who can get it, we are talking
   about the animal handlers and stuff like that. Handlers of contaminated
   animals. Anthrax is mostly found in animal product - in contaminated
   cows and sheep, goats, and it's usually the people that handle those
   are going to be the people that you see it the most in.

   How is Anthrax transmitted? There is three separate ways it can be
   transmitted. It can be transmitted cutaneously, through the skin,
   through cuts, sores, any open lesions, stuff like that. It is when it
   gets in through that, through the skin. It can also be transmitted
   through the gastrointestinal tract which is ingestion, eating some
   contaminated meat. Once again, we have great animal control so you are
   not probably never going to see contaminated meat here in the United
   States or contaminated product. Or inhalation. Inhalation being one of
   the top subjects right now because everybody is worried about opening
   letters and having white powder in the air and stuff like that.
   Inhalation, though it's probably the worst form you can get it, it's
   still treatable. If you are exposed, we can treat it and get it taken
   care of. As far as cutaneously, on your hands, on your arms, stuff like
   that. As you use good hygiene, once again, I am going to reemphasize
   washing your hands - hot water and soap, use an alcohol-based gel, or
   any kind of bleach-based wipe that is commercially available.
   Disinfecting things. Don't have to go overboard, but you know, if we
   just modify our routine a little bit, we can beat this, and you will
   beat the common cold, you will beat the flu. You will live a healthier
   life, actually.

   Question comes up - "Should we wear gloves?" If you are working in a
   mailroom, and many of you are working in mailrooms, and you are
   touching a lot of packages, think about gloves - not just because of
   the Anthrax, but think about the gloves because of what you are
   touching every day. These mail packages have been dragged through the
   mud, they have been kicked across warehouse floors, they have been
   dragged through airports, thrown on planes, thrown on the back of the
   trucks, and then delivered to you by someone who could have a flu, who
   could have a cold, who has been wiping his nose, and touching these
   packages. Just for the nasty nature of these packages, you need to
   think about an extra line of protection. Now, sure, if you don't touch
   your face or anything else, and you wash vigilantly, throughout the day
   of handling these things, that is going to take care of it, but if you
   want that extra level of protection, there is no reason why not to use
   gloves. If you want to use a surgical latex glove, which is what we
   issue to our EMTs and paramedics in the field to use, that is great.
   You don those, you work it all day long. If you end up compromising the
   integrity of the glove at all, or you feel that they are wearing thin,
   change out your gloves. If you want to get in the habit of just
   changing them out every 15 minutes, 20 minutes, go ahead and do so.
   There is no real guidelines, and we are not going to mandate that you
   wear gloves, but we are saying for that extra bit of protection, not
   just because of Anthrax, but how nasty a lot of this mail is, you might
   want to consider wearing it, and that will take care of any cutaneous
   problems.

   Ingestion, really short, we don't have any problems with ingested-type
   Anthrax. Of course, California has zero Anthrax cases, but in the
   United States, ingestion is so uncommon that it will probably never be
   broadcast on the news. You will probably never hear about it. So that
   takes us to inhalation. Inhalation is the number one topic right now.
   Inhalation does carry some different types of risks, some different
   types of precautions, and we are going to talk a little bit about those
   precautions today. What you need to understand is that in these
   envelopes, or in these packages, the reason they keep hearing this
   white powder, or they keep using this white powder or any kind of
   powder, is Anthrax - being bacteria - being a spore, has no wings. I
   mean, it can't just up and fly on its own. It needs a delivery device,
   it needs a delivery vehicle to actually put it into the air, and put it
   into the air in a strong enough dose to where you are going to be able
   to breath it in and become infected. And what they do is find a lighter
   than air, or a light-as-air powder. A talc powder, flour. Anything that
   will suspend it in the air long enough for somebody to walk through it,
   and that is why you are seeing this white powder. The powder - it
   [isn't] the Anthrax, it's a delivery vehicle for the Anthrax to be
   placed into the air, but like all hazardous materials scenes that we
   deal with, and with biological scenes, if it's in a powder, or it's in
   something that is in lighter than air, it's eventually going to settle,
   and it will come down to the ground. So exposure, after awhile, will go
   away. You are wondering probably, well you know, once it is in the air
   and I breath it, what should I do? Don't panic. This stuff does not
   kill you on the spot. This isn't some like some lethal nerve agent that
   is going to incapacitate you, but you do need to follow some simple
   steps. Some of the simple steps that we have in place follow what we
   teach our first responders in our hazardous material incident
   commanders and that is the acronym, SIN. SIN is safety, isolation, and
   notification. Okay, we need to be safe first off. Let's be calm, and
   lets take care of this whole thing. If you do have a package and it has
   white powder or something suspicious, you need to place it and leave
   it. You need to back away. Now we need to isolate. Let's isolate the
   area, let's make notification to those that we need to. Keep our
   employees, our fellow employees out of the area, and make notification,
   be it 9-1-1 or anything else, and we will get the right people going. I
   will show up in my moonsuit, along with my crew, and we will have the
   Department of Health out there. We will get the fire department to come
   out and give you a free shower, and we will have the medical people
   take a look at you and see if you actually have anything to be worried
   about. But we are here to take care of the situation, and most
   important, we are here to protect you and take care of you, and that is
   what we are tasked with, that is our job, and that is what we train
   for. So as far as remembering something, let's remember SIN, safety,
   isolation, and notification, and let's follow it, and what we are
   talking about a lot of times is straight common sense. You are not
   going to throw the package up in the air. You are not going to take
   this package over to your friend's desk and say, "Hey, what do you
   think this is?" If it's unusual, if it's suspicious, if it's something
   out of the ordinary, [it] probably is and you need to deal with that.
   Many of you have already had the departmental bomb training or the
   state's bomb training if you are handling packages. We are going to
   parallel that and how we handle some of this stuff. If the package
   feels funny, if it looks funny. If it has too much postage from one
   destination to another. If it's got no return address. If it's from a
   country that maybe we don't have the best relations from. These are
   things that you need to consider being suspicious. You do your job
   every day, you are professionals in what you do, and we ask that you
   use that experience. Use your eyes and your senses to look for the
   suspicious. We are asking you just to turn that up a little bit. We are
   not asking for life-saving or life-changing type things, but by turning
   it up, you may be able to save a life, may be able to save somebody's
   health, may be able to thwart something before it actually takes place.
   We are asking all the eyes of the state to help us out, be vigilant,
   refrain from any kind of complacency in this type of matter.

   As far as the preferred delivery method that the terrorists are using.
   And once again, I will emphasize "terrorist," because they want to
   inflict terror. And in light of what has happened, there has been quite
   a lot of terror and once again we are here to just kind of let you know
   a little bit about this, and maybe it will calm you down a little bit.
   And delivery methods, we have discussed about the white envelopes and
   the powders and stuff, but we have to get this in the air. So a lot of
   times it will be in an aerosol can, or a pressurized pipe, or some
   other means of getting it into the air and keeping it in the air long
   enough for somebody to breathe. And even in that state, everything has
   to be right - the conditions have to be right, the strain has to be
   right, the strain has to be the right proportion, the bacteria have to
   be the right size, the spores have to be the right condition. If none
   of these things take place, well then, we have an unstable
   micro-organism and possibly not even an effective one. So there is a
   lot of variables along the way in this package being mailed to you that
   it may not even show up and be effective. And once again, I am going to
   emphasize that California has never seen a case of Anthrax. A lot of
   hoaxes. Ninety-nine percent of anything in the United States has ended
   up being a hoax. One hundred percent of California has been a hoax.
   Remember that, calm down a little bit and you can make it though this.
   Remember hygiene. I can't stress that enough - hygiene.

   Questions come up before, of, can Anthrax be spread person to person?
   If you come down with Anthrax, or somebody comes down with Anthrax, you
   can not get it from another person. That is just not how it works -
   that is not the way this kind of micro-organism is. And it just won't
   happen. So as far as that is concerned, don't worry about it.
   Treatments - there are already treatments out there. If you do feel you
   have been exposed, then let's get you treated. Simple antibiotics.
   There are several different antibiotics out there they can use.
   Military even vaccinate their troops against Anthrax just in case. But
   there are treatments. We can treat all three forms: cutaneous,
   gastrointestinal, and inhalation. But you need to get treated. If you
   feel that you have been exposed to something suspicious, and we will
   parallel the bomb training that you have had before, then let's get you
   checked out, get you treated. Some of the things outside of the
   surgical gloves that you need to possibly think about is that if you
   are in a contaminated area, avoid smoking, drinking, or eating until
   you have been checked out, or at least until you have cleaned up. There
   is no reason for you to move out to a clean area from a contaminated
   area just to turn around and put your hands on your face. That defeats
   the whole reason of leaving the contaminated area. So remember, no
   smoking, drinking, or eating until you have gotten that whole situation
   taken care of. And once again, wash thoroughly, remember hygiene.
   Hygiene is everything. Hygiene will beat this thing almost every time
   as well as everything else that you encounter. And as far as your
   workplace, the place in which you work, the area in which you work.
   Need you to be more vigilant in that area too.

   And look for suspicious things, some tell-tale signs that something is
   not right. If you see or smell weird odors or see your coworkers all of
   a sudden developing rashes. Okay, maybe we have a biological problem
   going on there, not necessarily Anthrax, but something else, and we
   need to make the right notifications. How about unusual stains or
   discolorations? People say - well, Anthrax, I thought, was clear, or
   most things are invisible. How am I going to tell? Well, they actually
   in their delivery method will have a stain. If I took my pepper spray
   out from its container, it is a chemical agent. If I sprayed it on the
   wall, it is going to leave a stain. That is something you don't see
   everyday when you come to work. So maybe it's suspicious. Let's act on
   our suspicions. Let's call the right people. Let's get us in there, and
   we will get it checked out for you. Also, the onset of people who are
   sick, and I am not talking about the employees who use their allotted
   sick leave at the beginning of each month. I am talking about the
   person who maybe never calls in sick. Or maybe the two or three people
   that are sitting right next to each other all of a sudden are becoming
   sick or overwhelmed with something. We need to think about our SIN
   acronym - our safety, isolation, and notification. And react to it, and
   let's get the right people in and let's get everybody treated and taken
   care of, so we can go about our normal routines.

   Watch for unauthorized people. Most of us work in state buildings where
   ID cards are required, or some kind of special code is needed to get
   through a door. Look for the people who are not supposed to be there.
   Let's get into a habit of challenging those that we don't know. Let's
   make notification to the Highway Patrol or to the local law enforcement
   agency. Get somebody out there to find out who this person is, and
   let's get them checked out as well. A really good example of that is
   the suspicious sprayings from the bug man. We all have the bug man who
   shows up the third Thursday of each month to spray for cockroaches or
   anything else, crickets and stuff like that. All of a sudden the bug
   man is showing up four or five times a week. Well that is a bit
   suspicious. And if he is not scheduled to be there, we need to get the
   right authorities out there to ask him why he is there and get that all
   checked out. But once again, and I am going to refer to the SIN acronym
   - limit your time, limit your exposure. You will do real well, remove
   yourself from the problem. Let's get you checked, let's get the area
   taken care of. Kind of fall back on that bomb training that a lot of
   you have received. That will help you out a lot.

   In closing, I want to talk about some real quick things you can do.
   Just remember, defense is possible in these situations, and casualties
   can be minimum. Also, be proactive in your planning and training. We
   really encourage the "what if" scenarios. You are sitting around the
   water container or around the desks with other people, or at the
   training table or something in your particular office, talk about the
   "what ifs." What if this happened, what if that happened? What should
   we do if? If you practice these things mentally, the if they happen and
   you have already been going through them, you are going to react to
   these things a lot better. You would be surprised at how well you will
   react to them if you have already discussed them and already gone over
   what to do. If you need available resources, you should have books with
   all the right numbers in them. As far as contacting your emergency
   authorities, you should all have an emergency action plan in your
   facility or in your building. If not, you do need to get one, and make
   sure it's up to date. Make sure it does not have an old revision date
   on it. Let's check those numbers, make sure they are still good, and
   that these people can still be notified. All else fails, you dial
   9-1-1, and you are going to get a whole group of us in our moonsuits
   showing up, taking care of the situation, and we will be taking care of
   you as well. Most of all though, and most importantly, I want to leave
   you with this, is "Be Prepared, Not Scared." And let's work through
   this. Life is going to continue to go on. This will go away, but we
   will keep training for it just so that we are here for you.

   Thank you very much.


                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.   Conditions of Use |
                               Privacy Policy
