http://policy.house.gov/documents/statements/tpa.htm

              House Policy Committee Christopher Cox, Chairman

                              Policy Statement

                                June 14, 2001

                  Printer-friendly version in Adobe Acrobat

              Trade Promotion Authority and American Prosperity

       America's taxes on foreign imports are already near zero. But
   foreign taxes on the products of U.S. workers are often
   prohibitive-killing American jobs and opportunity. Cutting or
   eliminating foreign taxes on American exports is thus the key to
   expanding America's global economic leadership.

       At home, trade expansion through lower foreign taxes will help
   increase economic growth, raise living standards through higher wages,
   and increase employment. Already, the growth in foreign markets is
   helping create jobs for Americans: one in three U.S. farm acres is
   planted for export. And 12 million American jobs have been generated by
   exports to the rest of the world.

       In order to achieve meaningful reductions in foreign taxes on U.S.
   exports, the executive branch of our government must have the specific
   authority from Congress to negotiate trade agreements with other
   countries. This authority-known as Trade Promotion Authority-lets
   America speak with one voice, and achieve solid and binding results in
   international trade negotiations. It is the key to opening foreign
   markets to American farmers, workers, investors, and businesses.

       Consistently, the Republican leadership of Congress-and Presidents
   of both parties-have supported this essential tool of American
   leadership and prosperity. Unfortunately, the President has been
   without Trade Promotion Authority since 1994. In the last Congress, the
   bipartisan consensus supporting trade expansion was destroyed when
   congressional Democrats succeeded in blocking an extension of Trade
   Promotion Authority to former President Clinton.

       This year, Congress and the President will work together to restore
   the consensus for trade expansion and Trade Promotion Authority. The
   Republican leadership of Congress, which has consistently provided the
   critical support for both Trade Promotion Authority and a whole array
   of vital trade agreements such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and
   Trade, the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the African Growth
   and Opportunity Act, is determined to forge a bipartisan majority for
   Trade Promotion Authority.

       Trade Promotion Authority is also one of President Bush's highest
   priorities. The President understands that the most prosperous periods
   in American history have been when free trade was expanding: from 1873
   to World War I; the 1920s; the Reagan boom from 1983 to 1990; and the
   post-NAFTA and GATT prosperity that we now enjoy. By contrast,
   protectionism in the 1930s contributed enormously to the spread and
   duration of the Great Depression, as it did to the decline of England
   from 1914 to the Thatcher era. Moreover, closed markets set the stage
   for the financial crisis of the late 1990's in Asia.

       Free trade promotes sustained prosperity in a number of ways:

     Controlling inflation. Keeping inflation in check has been a central
     pillar of America's economic growth, consumer confidence, and
     financial market strength. Free trade leads to more competitive
     businesses, more choices of goods, and lower prices for consumers.

     Accelerating Innovation. Advances in high technology, and the
     productivity growth that high technology has helped bring about, are
     strongly encouraged by free trade. Free trade not only reinforces
     the discipline of competition and promotes the rise of efficient
     companies, but it also provides expanded markets for new products,
     thereby rewarding investment in innovative technologies, goods, and
     services.

     Replacing Government with Markets. Worldwide deregulation is
     producing economic efficiency and opening markets around the globe.
     Nothing has given a greater boost to deregulation than free trade.
     Competition undermines inefficient state-run industries and has led
     to across-the-board deregulation in areas such as transportation,
     telecommunications, and financial services.

     Reducing Conflict. Free trade can break down political divisions.
     European unity, unthinkable fifty years ago, is increasingly
     apparent as the Common Market matures. Historical rivals including
     Argentina and Chile, Japan and South Korea, and Russia and Turkey
     have built cooperative bilateral relations on a foundation of common
     economic interests. Trade expansion will encourage economic
     development, reduce poverty, and promote democratic principles
     throughout the world.

     Giving America the Edge. Free trade opens up overseas markets to
     U.S. products and services where America has a comparative advantage
     over foreign producers: for example, in high tech, banking,
     insurance, intellectual property, entertainment, and a variety of
     manufactures. In this way, expanded trade will create and sustain
     millions of high-paying American jobs.

            Trade Promotion Authority: The Key to Trade Expansion

       Without Trade Promotion Authority, America will lose the
   opportunity for significant trade gains that would otherwise flow to
   U.S. workers and businesses. That opportunity will be seized by
   America's trade competitors. For example, the European Union has
   already concluded 27 preferential or special customs agreements with
   other countries, and is negotiating 15 more. For the first time ever in
   our own hemisphere, the EU has signed a free trade agreement-with
   Mexico, our second-largest market. The EU is also aggressively seeking
   trade agreements with South American nations. Japan is negotiating a
   free trade agreement with Singapore, and is considering agreements with
   Mexico, Korea, and Chile. Overall, there are over 130 preferential
   trade agreements in the world today-and the United States is a party to
   only two of them.

       Trade Promotion Authority does not mean that Congress gives carte
   blanche to the President and the Executive Branch. However, because our
   trading partners cannot negotiate separately with 535 Members of
   Congress, it is an essential prerequisite to winning meaningful
   international trade agreements. Just as labor contracts are negotiated
   between designated representatives, rather than among all union members
   and all members of the corporate board, so too the United States must
   speak with one voice in trade negotiations. And just as labor
   agreements are subject to the ultimate approval of both the union's
   membership and the company's board, so too each and every trade
   agreement negotiated under Trade Promotion Authority will continue to
   remain subject to congressional approval.

       President Bush has stressed that he plans to take full advantage of
   the market-opening opportunities that present themselves in the coming
   years, while maintaining the closest possible consultation and
   collaboration with Congress. The President understands the essential
   executive-congressional partnership on trade, and will work with
   Members of Congress and congressional committees.

       Long-term economic growth is a key element of stable, free, and
   democratic societies. The lapse of Trade Promotion Authority hurts
   American leadership in building a prosperous and free world as much as
   it injures our economic interests. Republicans in Congress will move
   quickly to reinstate the authority that has promoted free trade year
   after year, delivering significant progress from the Tokyo Round in
   1979 to the Uruguay Round in 1994.

       Trade Promotion Authority is the essential precondition for
   expanding America's export markets. It is time to reassert America's
   leadership in the world, and extend Trade Promotion Authority now.
