http://www.bphc.hrsa.dhhs.gov/grants/GrantsHome.htm

   [Grants3.gif]

   News 1/2002:

     HHS.GOV has a new page listing funding resources  for faith-based
     and community organizations.

     http://www.hhs.gov/faith/features/resources.html

   Effective December 1, 2001, the HRSA Grants Application Center is
   moving to a new location. Any correspondence or application submission
   which requires submission of a hard copy and has a deadline on or after
   December 1, 2001, should be sent to:
   HRSA Grants Application Center
   Attention: Grants Management Officer
   901 Russell Avenue, Suite 450
   Gaithersburg, MD 20879
   For additional information, contact the HRSA Grants Application Center
   at 1-877-477-2123.

   BPHC's Office of Grants Management (OGM) assists the general public,
   funded agencies, Office of Rural Health Policy (ORHP) and Field Office
   staff in preparing applications; provides consultation about grants
   administration; manages the grants process; and issues Notice of Grant
   Award documents.

   Other HRSA Funding Opportunities

                                  2002 WSGA
     (please print these instructions)
     https://deis.hrsa.gov/grantweb/

     The BPHC Web-enabled Single Grant Application (WSGA), for FY 2002
     continuation grant applications, is to be used for the competing
     (project period renewal) and non-competing (budget period renewal)
     applications for the Migrant Health, Community Health Centers,
     Health Care for the Homeless, and Public Housing Primary Care and
     Healthy Schools grant programs. All Health Center Cluster grantees
     are required to use the WSGA unless you have written permission from
     the OGM. This permission will only be granted in very unusual
     circumstances.

     Health Care for the Homeless Submission date is extended to July 20,
     2001.

   Address and HELP
     * WSGA address is https://deis.hrsa.gov/grantweb/ or you may access a
       link to this page at www.bphc.hrsa.gov/grants or
       www.bphc.hrsa.gov/asga/
     *   WSGA Help Desk, call 1-866-667-2742 or email jruiz@nachc.com for
       general help in navigation the system.
     *   WSGA email to the BPHC is asga@hrsa.gov We will be checking this
       email throughout the day.
     * Technical question on configuration or why something is not
       working, email asga@hrsa.gov or call Steve Smerk 301-594-4234.
     * If desperate, please call Pam Hilton at 301-594-4238 or Deborah
       Floyd at 301-594-4239 and we will try to assist you.

     LOGON and PASSWORD

     Your logon is your organization's UDS#. See the bottom section of you
       current Notice of Grant Award for the correct UDS#.

     Your password is your organization's CRS/EIN#. See Item 18 on your
       current Notice of Grant Award for the correct CRS/EIN#.

   HELPFUL HINTS
     * Users

     Multiple members of your organization may log onto the system using
     the above logon and password.

     * Registry

     When you have completed the logon process above, the system will
     come up a base information screen, which contains the general
     information for your organization. You will verify this information.
     You may edit the address, phone numbers, email and other
     information. You may not, however, edit the name of your
     organization. If the name has changed, you will be required to
     submit a State Certificate recognizing the change of name of your
     organization to the Office of Grants Management (OGM) under separate
     cover.

     * Income Analysis

     The second screen you will access is the income analysis screen.
     This form has been expanded and should easily incorporate all of the
     situations you encounter in identifying your funding sources. Go to
     File Print to print this form. You will need the results of this
     form in order to fill out the BPHC funding summary.

     * Personnel by Position

     The personnel by position is the next form to complete. Again you
     should print this form in order to fill out the total funds for
     personnel on the budget pages.

     * BPHC Funding Request Summary

     The BPHC Funding Request Summary should be completed using the
     results of the Income Analysis as the basis for the non-Federal
     Funding. The Federal Funds amount is your recommended future Federal
     support as reflected on your most current Notice of Grant Award.

     * Other Forms and Exhibits

     You will complete the required forms and exhibits in a sequential
     manner. The help file is specific to the SGA 2002. In addition,
     there are helps included on how to use the application.

     * Narratives

     You will complete the Narratives required by the type of application
     you are completing, either Project Period or Budget Period Renewal.
     You may submit one narrative containing all required section or
     multiple files. Each section or file should be labeled with the name
     and the number of pages of the section. (For example, Budget
     Narrative, Pages 1 of 5.) If you submit multiple files, the Health
     Care Plan and the Business Plan must be a complete file. We are
     unable to deal with each goal as a separate file.

     * Submission

     Once you are ready to submit the application, the person with
     signatory authority will log on to the system with their secured
     password and complete the submission process. (A letter will be sent
     to these individuals with instructions for the Electronic Signature
     Process.)

   Thank you again for your support as the Bureau of Primary Health Care
   moves toward an automated grant process.

   Information on Single Grant Application 2002


                    Go to Health and Human Services (HHS)
          Go to Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)
                       Related Primary Care References

          For questions or comments, email us at feedback@hrsa.gov
