http://muller.lbl.gov/pages/MullerStatement.html

                                  STATEMENT

                concerning the lawsuit filed against Piet Hut
                     by the Institute for Advanced Study

                               Richard Muller

     I am very sad to see the lawsuit between the Institute for Advanced
     Study and Piet Hut, since I hold both in such high regard. I first
     met Piet in 1984, when he provided the key insight that made our
     Nemesis theory possible. A section I wrote in my 1988 book "Nemesis"
     puts Piet's current problem in some perspective:

     That evening, over dinner, Piet told Rosemary [my wife] and me about
     a paper he had written with the astrophysicist Martin Rees. They had
     analyzed the possibility that one of the large new particle
     accelerators being built to study subnuclear particles could
     accidentally trigger a "phase transition" of the vacuum of space.
     Happily, Hut and Rees had calculated that such an event was
     extremely improbable.

     Piet told us that he had carefully considered the consequences of
     publishing a paper like that. He had worried that politicians might
     use it as an excuse to delay the building of accelerators, and that
     colleagues might use it as evidence that Piet's research was
     frivolous. He could afford one such paper in his career. But now, a
     second paper, speculating on a companion star to the sun? That would
     make two "nut" papers in a row. He wasn't sure his career could
     stand it. I wasn't sure he was kidding.

     It was shortly after this work that Piet was offered a tenured
     position at the Institute for Advanced Study. Clearly they knew that
     he was an original and unpredictable thinker. But that is the kind
     of person an institution must continue to attract if it is going to
     maintain its reputation. No first-rate science department in the
     country can afford to make conservative choices. And the only sure
     way for a scientist to get a prestigious appointment is to be
     daring, original, and solid. Piet Hut satisfied all these
     requirements.

     In his new position at the Institute for Advanced Study, it was not
     Piet Hut's right to exercise his originality -- it was his
     responsibility. Tenure is a rare privilege that is virtually
     nonexistent outside of academia. Those of us who have it -- have a
     responsibility to use it. We are granted tenure, presumably, because
     the university (or the Institute for Advanced Study) knows that
     institutions are too conservative. Pick talented people, those who
     are creative and motivated to work hard, and let them determine
     which direction to go. That is the system that has successfully led
     to the development of the greatest academic institutions, including
     the Institute for Advanced Study.

     Piet has exercised this responsibility, perhaps more than the
     Institute reckoned. In his wisdom, he decided that the greatest
     advances could come from a digital computational approach to some of
     the most outstanding problems of astrophysics. Having tenure, he
     could pursue his work according to his best judgement. That is what,
     presumably, the Institute wanted.

     I don't know for sure, but I suspect that the Institute for Advanced
     Study will look very foolish, in about a decade or two, when the
     wisdom of Piet's approach can finally be evaluated in retrospect.
     But it is certain even now that it is doing enormous damage to
     itself by attempting to terminate him. This is just a foolish
     mistake. The only truly appropriate action for the Institute is for
     it to admit its mistake, apologize, and try to restore its
     reputation as an organization that has been on the forefront of
     academic freedom. If they don't do this, then the danger is very
     real -- not to people such as Piet Hut, who will thrive elsewhere.
     The danger is that the truly original scientists will no longer look
     upon an appointment at the Institute for Advanced Study as a coveted
     post. That will certainly condemn the Institute to be known as one
     of the greatest institutions of the 20th century -- but not of the
     21st.

     Richard Muller October 11, 2000

                                   <-:=:->
