http://www.sc.doe.gov/sub/Rerearch_Portfolio/final--CR_OfficeofSci_3605.pdf

   U . S . D E P A R T M E N T O F E N E R G Y Office of Science, U.S.
   Department of Energy The 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC
   20585 Office www.science.doe.gov of Science The High Energy Physics
   program's mis- DOE provides about 85% of federal sion is to understand
   energy and matter support for nuclear physics research. at a
   fundamental level by investigating With this funding, the program seeks
   the elementary particles and the forces to understand how quarks bind
   togeth- A Diverse Research Portfolio between them. This program is the
   major er to form nucleons and nuclei, to cre- sponsor of high energy
   physics research ate and study the quark-gluon plasma for the Nation's
   Future in the U.S., providing that is thought to have been the pri- 90%
   of federal mordial state of the early universe, The U.S. Department of
   Energy's (DOE) logical improvements that increase the support. Until
   and to understand energy pro- Office of Science is one of our Nation's
   quality of life for all Americans, ensure the Large duction and element
   synthesis premier sources of knowledge creation economic security, and
   advance national Hadron in stars and stellar explosions. in the
   physical sciences, computation, security. This scientific knowledge is
   gen- Collider in construction to Fermilab operates the mathematics,
   life sciences, environmental erated through investments that span
   Europe is The Science Education subpro- rehabilitate, reno- highest
   energy proton and energy research, and other vital scien- research
   fields and academic disciplines. completed gram supports research
   experi- vate and replace collider in the world tific areas. Investments
   in basic research in 2006, the ences at our National Labs laboratory
   and and forefront scientific facilities help U.S. will be for a diverse
   group of competitive- office buildings, utilities systems, and to
   maintain U.S. leadership in many key the primary cen- ly selected
   undergraduate students. other structures. This support ensures Basic
   Research scientific disciplines, and ensure that ter of international
   In collaboration with the National the continuity of high technology
   scientific DOE can fulfill missions in energy and The Office of Science
   is the dominant activity for experimental Science Foundation, an effort
   is underway research that is conducted in a reliable, national
   security. supporter of basic research in the physical research in the
   field of high energy to attract a wider cross section of cost effective
   and safe manner. sciences (i.e. Physics, Chemistry, etc.) physics.
   There is the potential for exciting students to this program and a
   system Support for Office of Science research pro- in the U.S. and
   plays a major role in sup- new discoveries, and the program is posi- is
   being created to document student The Technical Information Management
   grams-which comprise one of the most porting multidisciplinary basic
   research tioning itself to take advantage of these career paths. This
   subprogram also program leads DOE's e-government diverse research
   portfolios in the Federal that contributes to other scientific fields,
   opportunities. supports the regional and National initiatives for
   disseminating information Government-is an essential part of a bal-
   including life sciences, mathematics, Science Bowl © competitions.
   resulting from the Department's research anced national research
   portfolio that will computation, engineering, and environ- The mission
   of the Nuclear Physics pro- and development programs. The Office
   maintain our gains in knowledge creation Multidisciplinary team
   research is at mental research. In addition, the Office of gram is to
   advance our knowledge of The Multiprogram Energy Laboratories- of
   Scientific and Technical Information and produce new intellectual
   capital. the heart of the Office of Science Science is a principal
   supporter of gradu- the properties and interactions of atomic
   Facilities Support program's mission is to manages an effort to provide
   electronic National Laboratories. This team of ate students and
   postdoctoral researchers nuclei and nuclear matter in terms of the
   support the general purpose infrastructure access to worldwide
   scientific and These investments enable U.S. researchers physicists,
   engineers, and computing in their early careers, and is the steward
   fundamental forces and particles of of the five Office of Science
   multiprogram technical information to DOE researchers, to move quickly
   to capitalize on scientific scientists designed and fabricated of a
   vast network of major scientific facili- nature. The Nuclear Physics
   program at national laboratories by funding line item industry,
   academia, and the public. developments worldwide. Scientific knowl- the
   world's most powerful detector ties that is essential to the vitality
   of edge, economists agree, leads to techno- for nuclear science. the
   U.S. research community. The Office of Science is the nation's leading
   sponsor of the physical sciences. Breakthrough discoveries are at the
   heart of the Office of Science Programs T E I D - 3 6 0 5
   www.science.doe.gov "Medical advances may seem In addition, major
   advances in medical solid-state physicist, an optics expert, a like
   wizardry. But pull back A History of Success diagnostic tools,
   microelectronics, computational scientist, or a biochemist. advanced
   materials, nanoscience, compu- the curtain, and sitting at The work of
   such a team relies upon the Past investments in Office of Science *
   Office of Science The Office of Science tation, lasers, and other
   scientific innova- availability of a high intensity light source, the
   lever is a high-energy basic research programs continue to investments
   in plays an essential tions supported by Office of Science a neutron
   source, or a state-of-the-art pay off handsomely for U.S. taxpayers.
   high energy and role in the National programs continue to improve the
   lives physicist, a combinational nuclear magnetic resonance imaging
   Researchers funded by these programs nuclear physics Nanotechnology of
   millions of Americans and have added machine. All of these instruments
   were chemist or an engineer." have resolved some of the major ques-
   continue to move Initiative. greatly to our Nation's store of
   scientific the result of research in the physical tions of our time,
   including basic research us closer to a knowledge. sciences-and the
   Office of Science that is helping us to understand the ori- complete
   picture - Harold Varmus, Nobel Laureate pioneered their development and
   use. gins and fate of the universe, the diversity of the fundamen- *
   Investments in plas- For example, basic research initiated by and
   former Director of the of life on this planet, and changes in our tal
   particles and ma physics and the Office of Science in 1986 culminated
   National Institutes of Health global climate. interactions that fusion
   energy sci- in the publication of a complete draft of Science Workforce
   dictate the nature ences continue the Human Genome sequence in February
   The Office of Science has developed a list of matter and to expand our
   2001. This blueprint for humanity holds The Office of Science has a
   long-standing of the "Top 100" contributions to science energy and
   explain a myriad of natural understanding of how to generate, the
   promise of curing major diseases and and critical role in ensuring the
   flow of from the basic research programs of the and man-made phenomena.
   control, and harness the energy of understanding fundamental life
   processes, young scien- Department of Energy during the 23 years high
   temperature, high density while it continues to teach us about our
   X-ray crystallography is an excellent exam- tists, engineers since
   DOE's founding. The listing of these * A newly developed class of
   nanostruc- plasmas here on earth. origins and our potential. ple of the
   interdependence of scientific and technicians contributions are
   available on our website tured materials has been developed disciplines
   at the forefront of medical into the U.S. at www.science.doe.gov. that
   can selectively filter molecules by * Completion of the draft map of
   the The Office of Science's success with the research. A grant from NIH
   may fund a workforce. their size and chemical identity. As a human
   genome, one of the seminal Human Genome Project illustrates the fact
   research team that includes biologists, but Unique research That long
   history of scientific contribu- result, we may one day wear "breath-
   discoveries of our age, was made that advances in one field of science
   can may also include a materials scientist or experiences at tions
   continues with discoveries such as ing" fabrics that block hazardous
   chemi- possible by sequencing technologies often have unexpected
   impacts on other, the national the following. cals while admitting
   harmless sub- developed by the Office of Science. seemingly unrelated,
   fields. For example, laboratories are stances like oxygen.
   breakthroughs in the physical sciences often a step- have enabled rapid
   advances in medical Positron Emission Protein crystallography ping
   stone and life sciences, communications, and Tomography, pioneered at
   synchrotron to successful information technology. And companies by the
   Office of Science radiation sources careers in developing new medicines
   often depend is essential to advances science. Office of Science
   Programs on computer-based modeling and theoreti- in medicine. cal
   advances in chemistry, physics, and World-class The Advanced Scientific
   Computing and national security; advances energy the life sciences
   supported by the Office research facili- Research program's mission is
   to discover, related basic science on a broad front; of Science. ties
   attract develop, and deploy the computational and provides unique user
   facilities for the Computational simula- many young and networking
   tools that enable scientific community and industry. The Fusion Energy
   tions of magnetic fusion researchers scientific researchers to ana-
   Sciences program's build a bridge between Scientific Facilities who may
   conduct a single experiment or lyze, model, simulate, and The
   Biological and mission is to advance theory and experiment, may choose
   to spend their careers at predict complex physical, Environmental
   plasma science, fusion leading to significant cost This growing
   connectivity between an Office of Science laboratory. Expanding
   chemical, and biological Research program science, and technolo-
   savings and improved the sciences is evident at the Office efforts to
   attract the best and brightest phenomena important develops the knowl-
   gy. The program performance in subse- of Science's scientific user
   facilities. our Nation has to offer, while promoting to the Department
   of edge needed to iden- emphasizes the under- quent experiments. For
   example, only 100 of the 1,600 diversity in the scientific workforce,
   is an Energy. This research tify, understand, antic- lying basic
   research researchers (6%) at the Office of important part of the
   mission of the Office is changing the ways in ipate, and mitigate the
   in plasma and fusion Science's synchrotron light sources of Science. To
   accomplish this, the Office which modern science is long-term health
   and sciences, with the long-term goal of har- in 1990 were from the
   life sciences. of Science formed a partnership with the conducted.
   environmental conse- nessing fusion as a viable energy source. Today,
   there are more than 6,000 National Science Foundation to leverage
   quences of energy production, The program centers on the following
   researchers at the light sources, our investments, and the unique
   capabili- The Basic Energy Sciences program development, and use. As
   the goals: understanding the physics of plas- 2,400 of them (40%) from
   the life ties of the national laboratories, in train- is a principal
   sponsor of fundamental founder of the Human Genome Project, mas;
   identification and exploration of sciences. National Laboratories
   developed a way ing U.S. science educators and students. research for
   the Nation in the areas of BER continues to play a major role in
   innovative and cost effective development to "paint" specific
   chromosomes. With materials sciences and engineering, chem-
   biotechnology research and also invests in paths to fusion energy; and
   exploration this technique, scientists can quickly istry, geosciences,
   and bioscience as it basic research on global climate change of the
   science and technology of energy identify chromosome aberrations.
   relates to energy. This research underpins and environmental
   remediation. producing plasmas, as a partner in inter- the DOE missions
   in energy, environment, national efforts. "Medical advances may seem In
   addition, major advances in medical solid-state physicist, an optics
   expert, a like wizardry. But pull back A History of Success diagnostic
   tools, microelectronics, computational scientist, or a biochemist.
   advanced materials, nanoscience, compu- the curtain, and sitting at The
   work of such a team relies upon the Past investments in Office of
   Science * Office of Science The Office of Science tation, lasers, and
   other scientific innova- availability of a high intensity light source,
   the lever is a high-energy basic research programs continue to
   investments in plays an essential tions supported by Office of Science
   a neutron source, or a state-of-the-art pay off handsomely for U.S.
   taxpayers. high energy and role in the National programs continue to
   improve the lives physicist, a combinational nuclear magnetic resonance
   imaging Researchers funded by these programs nuclear physics
   Nanotechnology of millions of Americans and have added machine. All of
   these instruments were chemist or an engineer." have resolved some of
   the major ques- continue to move Initiative. greatly to our Nation's
   store of scientific the result of research in the physical tions of our
   time, including basic research us closer to a knowledge. sciences-and
   the Office of Science that is helping us to understand the ori-
   complete picture - Harold Varmus, Nobel Laureate pioneered their
   development and use. gins and fate of the universe, the diversity of
   the fundamen- * Investments in plas- For example, basic research
   initiated by and former Director of the of life on this planet, and
   changes in our tal particles and ma physics and the Office of Science
   in 1986 culminated National Institutes of Health global climate.
   interactions that fusion energy sci- in the publication of a complete
   draft of Science Workforce dictate the nature ences continue the Human
   Genome sequence in February The Office of Science has developed a list
   of matter and to expand our 2001. This blueprint for humanity holds The
   Office of Science has a long-standing of the "Top 100" contributions to
   science energy and explain a myriad of natural understanding of how to
   generate, the promise of curing major diseases and and critical role in
   ensuring the flow of from the basic research programs of the and
   man-made phenomena. control, and harness the energy of understanding
   fundamental life processes, young scien- Department of Energy during
   the 23 years high temperature, high density while it continues to teach
   us about our X-ray crystallography is an excellent exam- tists,
   engineers since DOE's founding. The listing of these * A newly
   developed class of nanostruc- plasmas here on earth. origins and our
   potential. ple of the interdependence of scientific and technicians
   contributions are available on our website tured materials has been
   developed disciplines at the forefront of medical into the U.S. at
   www.science.doe.gov. that can selectively filter molecules by *
   Completion of the draft map of the The Office of Science's success with
   the research. A grant from NIH may fund a workforce. their size and
   chemical identity. As a human genome, one of the seminal Human Genome
   Project illustrates the fact research team that includes biologists,
   but Unique research That long history of scientific contribu- result,
   we may one day wear "breath- discoveries of our age, was made that
   advances in one field of science can may also include a materials
   scientist or experiences at tions continues with discoveries such as
   ing" fabrics that block hazardous chemi- possible by sequencing
   technologies often have unexpected impacts on other, the national the
   following. cals while admitting harmless sub- developed by the Office
   of Science. seemingly unrelated, fields. For example, laboratories are
   stances like oxygen. breakthroughs in the physical sciences often a
   step- have enabled rapid advances in medical Positron Emission Protein
   crystallography ping stone and life sciences, communications, and
   Tomography, pioneered at synchrotron to successful information
   technology. And companies by the Office of Science radiation sources
   careers in developing new medicines often depend is essential to
   advances science. Office of Science Programs on computer-based modeling
   and theoreti- in medicine. cal advances in chemistry, physics, and
   World-class The Advanced Scientific Computing and national security;
   advances energy the life sciences supported by the Office research
   facili- Research program's mission is to discover, related basic
   science on a broad front; of Science. ties attract develop, and deploy
   the computational and provides unique user facilities for the
   Computational simula- many young and networking tools that enable
   scientific community and industry. The Fusion Energy tions of magnetic
   fusion researchers scientific researchers to ana- Sciences program's
   build a bridge between Scientific Facilities who may conduct a single
   experiment or lyze, model, simulate, and The Biological and mission is
   to advance theory and experiment, may choose to spend their careers at
   predict complex physical, Environmental plasma science, fusion leading
   to significant cost This growing connectivity between an Office of
   Science laboratory. Expanding chemical, and biological Research program
   science, and technolo- savings and improved the sciences is evident at
   the Office efforts to attract the best and brightest phenomena
   important develops the knowl- gy. The program performance in subse- of
   Science's scientific user facilities. our Nation has to offer, while
   promoting to the Department of edge needed to iden- emphasizes the
   under- quent experiments. For example, only 100 of the 1,600 diversity
   in the scientific workforce, is an Energy. This research tify,
   understand, antic- lying basic research researchers (6%) at the Office
   of important part of the mission of the Office is changing the ways in
   ipate, and mitigate the in plasma and fusion Science's synchrotron
   light sources of Science. To accomplish this, the Office which modern
   science is long-term health and sciences, with the long-term goal of
   har- in 1990 were from the life sciences. of Science formed a
   partnership with the conducted. environmental conse- nessing fusion as
   a viable energy source. Today, there are more than 6,000 National
   Science Foundation to leverage quences of energy production, The
   program centers on the following researchers at the light sources, our
   investments, and the unique capabili- The Basic Energy Sciences program
   development, and use. As the goals: understanding the physics of plas-
   2,400 of them (40%) from the life ties of the national laboratories, in
   train- is a principal sponsor of fundamental founder of the Human
   Genome Project, mas; identification and exploration of sciences.
   National Laboratories developed a way ing U.S. science educators and
   students. research for the Nation in the areas of BER continues to play
   a major role in innovative and cost effective development to "paint"
   specific chromosomes. With materials sciences and engineering, chem-
   biotechnology research and also invests in paths to fusion energy; and
   exploration this technique, scientists can quickly istry, geosciences,
   and bioscience as it basic research on global climate change of the
   science and technology of energy identify chromosome aberrations.
   relates to energy. This research underpins and environmental
   remediation. producing plasmas, as a partner in inter- the DOE missions
   in energy, environment, national efforts. U . S . D E P A R T M E N T O
   F E N E R G Y Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy The 1000
   Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20585 Office
   www.science.doe.gov of Science The High Energy Physics program's mis-
   DOE provides about 85% of federal sion is to understand energy and
   matter support for nuclear physics research. at a fundamental level by
   investigating With this funding, the program seeks the elementary
   particles and the forces to understand how quarks bind togeth- A
   Diverse Research Portfolio between them. This program is the major er
   to form nucleons and nuclei, to cre- sponsor of high energy physics
   research ate and study the quark-gluon plasma for the Nation's Future
   in the U.S., providing that is thought to have been the pri- 90% of
   federal mordial state of the early universe, The U.S. Department of
   Energy's (DOE) logical improvements that increase the support. Until
   and to understand energy pro- Office of Science is one of our Nation's
   quality of life for all Americans, ensure the Large duction and element
   synthesis premier sources of knowledge creation economic security, and
   advance national Hadron in stars and stellar explosions. in the
   physical sciences, computation, security. This scientific knowledge is
   gen- Collider in construction to Fermilab operates the mathematics,
   life sciences, environmental erated through investments that span
   Europe is The Science Education subpro- rehabilitate, reno- highest
   energy proton and energy research, and other vital scien- research
   fields and academic disciplines. completed gram supports research
   experi- vate and replace collider in the world tific areas. Investments
   in basic research in 2006, the ences at our National Labs laboratory
   and and forefront scientific facilities help U.S. will be for a diverse
   group of competitive- office buildings, utilities systems, and to
   maintain U.S. leadership in many key the primary cen- ly selected
   undergraduate students. other structures. This support ensures Basic
   Research scientific disciplines, and ensure that ter of international
   In collaboration with the National the continuity of high technology
   scientific DOE can fulfill missions in energy and The Office of Science
   is the dominant activity for experimental Science Foundation, an effort
   is underway research that is conducted in a reliable, national
   security. supporter of basic research in the physical research in the
   field of high energy to attract a wider cross section of cost effective
   and safe manner. sciences (i.e. Physics, Chemistry, etc.) physics.
   There is the potential for exciting students to this program and a
   system Support for Office of Science research pro- in the U.S. and
   plays a major role in sup- new discoveries, and the program is posi- is
   being created to document student The Technical Information Management
   grams-which comprise one of the most porting multidisciplinary basic
   research tioning itself to take advantage of these career paths. This
   subprogram also program leads DOE's e-government diverse research
   portfolios in the Federal that contributes to other scientific fields,
   opportunities. supports the regional and National initiatives for
   disseminating information Government-is an essential part of a bal-
   including life sciences, mathematics, Science Bowl © competitions.
   resulting from the Department's research anced national research
   portfolio that will computation, engineering, and environ- The mission
   of the Nuclear Physics pro- and development programs. The Office
   maintain our gains in knowledge creation Multidisciplinary team
   research is at mental research. In addition, the Office of gram is to
   advance our knowledge of The Multiprogram Energy Laboratories- of
   Scientific and Technical Information and produce new intellectual
   capital. the heart of the Office of Science Science is a principal
   supporter of gradu- the properties and interactions of atomic
   Facilities Support program's mission is to manages an effort to provide
   electronic National Laboratories. This team of ate students and
   postdoctoral researchers nuclei and nuclear matter in terms of the
   support the general purpose infrastructure access to worldwide
   scientific and These investments enable U.S. researchers physicists,
   engineers, and computing in their early careers, and is the steward
   fundamental forces and particles of of the five Office of Science
   multiprogram technical information to DOE researchers, to move quickly
   to capitalize on scientific scientists designed and fabricated of a
   vast network of major scientific facili- nature. The Nuclear Physics
   program at national laboratories by funding line item industry,
   academia, and the public. developments worldwide. Scientific knowl- the
   world's most powerful detector ties that is essential to the vitality
   of edge, economists agree, leads to techno- for nuclear science. the
   U.S. research community. The Office of Science is the nation's leading
   sponsor of the physical sciences. Breakthrough discoveries are at the
   heart of the Office of Science Programs T E I D - 3 6 0 5
   www.science.doe.gov
