http://www.cpaboard.wa.gov/complain/Default.htm

   Go to Access Washington Go to the Washington State Board of Accountancy
                                    Home

   Home About Us CPA Exam Certification/Licensing Continuing Professional
   Education Firm License Quality Assurance Review Complaints and
   Violations Rules/Policies Important Alerts Frequently Asked Questions
   Forms Licensee Search

Complaints and Violations

                     The Board’s Investigation Process

   In carrying out its mission "to promote dependable, accessible
   financial information" the Board is responsible for investigating
   complaints against CPAs. Complaints can originate from clients, other
   CPAs, Federal or State regulators, or from Board staff or committee
   review. Complaints result from allegations of technical errors, or
   ethical or legal violations.

   The Board receives approximately 30 to 90 complaints a year.  In most
   cases, the Board's Executive Director contacts the CPA regarding the
   alleged violation.

   The majority of investigations are conducted by the Board's Director of
   Investigations.  Investigations requiring specialized knowledge will be
   assigned to a technical consultant under contract with the Board.  Upon
   completion of the investigation, the Executive Director and a
   Consulting Board Member review the evidence and the merits of the case
   and make a determination as to whether sanctioning is necessary for
   resolution. Sanctions, or corrective action, may include: restitution,
   reprimand, fine, cost-recovery, required CPE, practice monitoring,
   license suspension or revocation.

   If sanctions are deemed appropriate, a potential resolution of the
   complaint is proposed in writing to the CPA in the form of a
   "stipulation and agreed order." If s/he concurs, the CPA signs the
   order agreeing to the sanctions. If the CPA disagrees, the Executive
   Director will issue a charges against the CPA and provide the CPA with
   the opportunity to present his/her side of the case through an
   administrative hearing. The Board will review the merits of the case
   and issue a written order containing the Board’s findings and, if
   deemed appropriate, sanctions. The CPA has 30 days to appeal the
   Board’s order to the Superior Court.

   For additional information, see Chapter 18.04 RCW which defines the
   powers and duties of the Board.

   For more information regarding the Board’s complaint process see:

     Complaint Process
     Investigation of Complaints - 1999

                               [blueline.gif]

    Home | About Us | CPA Exam | Certificate/License | CPE | Firm License
     QAR | Complaints | Rules/Policies | Important Alerts | FAQs | Forms
                               Licensee Search


   Contact the Washington State Board of Accountancy.
   Please read our Disclaimer  and Privacy Statement.
