http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERE/NE028015.HTML

   commerce logo UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                     National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration
                                                     NATIONAL WEATHER
   SERVICE
                                                     Silver Spring, Md.
   20910
                                                     September 4, 1980
                            OA/W22

   SUBJECT:         Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   80-15

   TO:                     All Holders of Operations Manual

   1. Material Transmitted:

   Entire WSOM Chapter E-02, Hydrologic Program Management.

   2. Purpose:

     This chapter describes the responsibilities of the various echelons
     of hydrologic services of the National Weather Service and the
     relationship between these echelons.

   This chapter has undergone the following revisions:

     3. River Forecast Centers (RFC's)

   4. Weather Service Forecast Offices/Weather Service Offices Hydrologic
   Service Area

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

     Supersedes entire WSOM Chapter E-02, Hydrologic Program Management,
     dated February 23, 1972, WSOM Issuance 72-8. OML's 8-74, dated March
     21, 1974, and 19-74, dated June 18, 1974, still exist and are not
     superseded.



   Richard E. Hallgren
   Director, National Weather Service

     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date Org. Code              NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE    Part
   Chap.
   9-4-80     W22                           Operations
   Manual                                E        02

                        HYDROLOGIC PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

   Table of Contents:

     1. General

     1.1 Weather Service Headquarters
     1.2 Working Relationships

   2. Regional Headquarters

     2.1 Regional Hydrologist
     2.2 Program Letters
     2.3 Working Relationships

   3. River Forecast Centers (RFC's)

     3.1 Area of Responsibility
     3.2 Functions
     3.3 Relation to WSFO's/WSO's Hydrologic Service Area (HSA)
     3.4 Station Duty Manual

   4. Weather Service Forecast Offices/Weather Service Office Hydrologic
   Service Area

     4.1 Area of Responsibility
     4.2 Functions
     4.3 Substation supervision
     4.4 Hydrologic Services Manual

   5. Hydrologic Responsibilities at Other Weather Service Offices

                                 * * * * * *

   1. General . The management of NOAA Weather Service's hydrologic
   activities is directed by the Office of Hydrology in Weather Service
   Headquarters. The field organization carries out the program. The NOAA
   Organization Handbook describes the functional activities of these
   various echelons.

   1.1 Weather Service Headquarters. The Office of Hydrology (O/H) is
   primarily responsible for plans and policy formulation, research
   programs, and national and international hydrologic activities.
   Guidance is provided to the field organizations in technical and
   related functions and interregional coordination of hydrologic matters.

   1.2 Working Relationships. The Office of Hydrology serves as the
   primary channel of coordination between Weather Service Headquarters
   and the field service programs on operating matters and technical
   aspects of hydrologic service programs and procedures.

   The Hydrologic Services Division (HSD) renders staff assistance to the
   Associate Director, Hydrology, and is the focal point on day-to-day
   matters concerning the operation of the hydrologic programs. The HSD
   serves to coordinate interregional activities with and through the
   Regional Hydrologists concerned.

   The Hydrologic Research and Development Laboratory maintains
   informational contact with the regional hydrologists and the River
   Forecast Centers (RFC's) on matters relating to procedure and technique
   development.

   The Office of Hydrology works closely with the Office of Meteorology
   and Oceanography to assure proper coordination of field programs in
   hydrology and meteorology. It maintains close working relationship with
   all other segments of the Weather Service and NOAA whose functions have
   a bearing on the hydrologic program.

   2. Regional Headquarters. In the field each regional headquarters
   manages the river and flood forecast and warning service within its
   assigned area. Accomplishment of the hydrologic program requires
   adequate river and rainfall reporting networks, reliable river
   forecasting procedures, rapid and dependable means of communications,
   and a system to provide widespread and timely dissemination of river
   forecasts and warnings. A regional hydrologist is assigned to each
   Weather Service regional headquarters to assist the Regional Director
   in the management of hydrologic programs.

   2.1 Regional Hydrologist. Regional hydrologist, in each region by
   delegation, manages activities of the river and flood forecasting field
   services, that include observing, collecting and processing hydrologic
   data, and distributing of forecasts and warnings. The regional
   hydrologist:

           a. Reviews and prepares reports on the effectiveness and
   efficiency of the region's hydrologic operations.

           b. Provides appropriate representation for field committees
   concerned with the development and management of water resources.

   2.2 Program Leaders. The regional hydrologist is responsible for the
   preparation of the hydrologic portion of station program letters for
   Weather Service River Forecast Centers, Weather Service Forecast
   Offices (WSFO's) / Weather Service Offices (WSO's) Hydrologic Service
   Area (HSA), and those WSO's without direct hydrologic responsibility.

   The program letter prepared for a River Forecast Center should
   enumerate its duties and responsibilities in broad terms, allowing the
   hydrologist in charge the necessary latitude to develop the procedures
   requisite to accomplishing his assigned tasks.

   Program letters for RFC's/WSFO's/WSO's HSA and for those Weather
   Service offices without direct hydrologic responsibilities should
   include pertinent items from the following:

     a. Explanation of duties and responsibilities:

     (1) Relationship to RFC's and other NWS offices
     (2) Forecasting and dissemination
     (3) Data collection and relay
     (4) Liaison with other agencies (Federal, state, and local)
     (5) Determination of user requirements
     (6) Preparation and maintenance of river district manual
     (7) Utilization of radar information
     (8) Rendition of forms and reports

   b. Assignment of area of responsibility:

     (1) Typical and unique user requirements.

   2.3 Working Relationships. The regional hydrologist provides a
   consulting services to regional headquarters units dealing with data
   acquisition, data processing, instruments, facilities, etc. These units
   carry out the work for hydrology in the some manner as for meteorology.

   The regional hydrologist maintains informational contact with the
   Associate Director or O/H and with the Office of Hydrology's Research
   and Development Laboratory. Liaison is maintained with Hydrologic
   Services Division and other segments of the Weather Service to
   effectively perform program administration. The regional hydrologist
   also maintains liaison with Federal, state, and local agencies
   concerned with water resources.

   3.1 Area of Responsibility. The area of assigned responsibility for
   each RFC is shown in chapter E-03.

   3.2 Functions. The RFC's develop the necessary river forecasts, flash
   flood guidance, and self-help procedures also water supply forecasts
   for the area they serve. Preparation of these procedures is
   accomplished by following or adapting techniques. Updating these
   procedures is an important continuing process.

   The RFC is responsible for distribution of its forecasts to the
   WSFO's/WSO's HSA. The Quantitative Precipitation Forecast prepared by
   the National Meteorological Center and some Weather Service field
   forecast offices should be utilized to the extent possible for
   preparing preliminary forecasts so that potential flood situations may
   be analyzed. Hydrologists In Charge (HIC's) are directed to use QPF
   support to the degree that provides maximum responsible service to the
   users. The RFC will compute and transmit the official river forecast to
   the WSFO/WSO HSA and cooperating agencies. In addition, some RFC's
   prepare forecasts for areas not currently served by WSFO's/WSO's HSA as
   directed by the regional hydrologist.

   The RFC's furnish guidance for flash flood watches and warnings to
   other National Weather Service offices as directed in chapter E-13.

   3.3 Relation to WSFO's/WSO's Hydrologic Service Area (HSA). RFC's
   coordinate matters of network cooperation, data, and user requirements
   with their WSFO's/WSO's HSA. They provide technical guidance and
   training to WSFO's/WSO's HSA personnel as required.

   The RFC's furnish the WSFO's/WSO's HSA with river forecasts for
   selected key points. These forecasts for key points are expanded by the
   WSFO's/WSO's HSA personnel through their knowledge of local conditions
   and forecasts for intermediate points are prepared where required. All
   distribution of river forecasts to the public is made by or through the
   WSFO's/WSO's HSA except when otherwise authorized by the Weather
   Service regional headquarters or necessitated by emergencies, such as
   the breakdown of communications.

   RFC's are responsible for the accuracy of the forecasts prepared by
   them. If a WSFO/WSO HSA questions a forecast, it should discuss the
   forecast and request modification. The final decision, however, rests
   with the RFC.

   RFC's will prepare simplified forecast procedures as far as practicable
   for the various key forecast points for use by the WSFO's/WSO's HSA.
   These procedures will be used in case of communications failure or any
   situation involving the loss of the RFC's services.

   3. River Forecast Centers (RFC's). RFC's are established to serve
   groups of contiguous WSFO's/WSO's HSA and are staffed with professional
   hydrologists. The RFC is the first echelon office for the preparation
   of river and flood forecasts and warnings.

   3.4 Station Duty Manual. Station Duty Manuals will be written and
   maintained according to the instructions contained in chapter A-13.

   * 4. Weather Service Forecast Offices/Weather Service Office Hydrologic
   Service Area. The country is divided into hydrologic area for efficient
   rendering of river and flood services. The area embrace one or more
   river basins or parts of larger river basins.

   4.1 Area of Responsibility. The area of assigned responsibility
   designated by the Office of Hydrology for each WSFO/WSO HSA is shown in
   chapter E-03.

   4.2 Functions. Normally Weather Service Forecast Offices in each state
   have assigned hydrologic service area responsibility except for those
   Weather Service Offices that have hydrologic service area
   responsibility assigned to them. These offices should keep abreast of
   water resources developments, user requirements, and changes on
   streamflow controls in its assigned area of responsibility. They should
   also advise the RFC and the regional hydrologist of changing situations
   so that appropriate actions can be fully coordinated. The WSFO/WSO HSA
   personnel must be alert to meteorological situations that have a
   potential for flood-producing rains. They are responsible for actively
   soliciting data on which early warnings may be based and issuing
   preliminary warnings in advance of detailed forecasts when conditions
   warrant. Those WSFO's/WSO;s HSA served by an RFC should consult with
   the hydrologist in charge of the RFC to insure that necessary forecasts
   are prepared for public dissemination.

   One of the principal functions of the WSFO/WSO HSA is issuance of river
   forecasts and flood warnings to the general public, specialized users,
   and disseminating media; such as, newspapers and radio and TV stations.
   Those NWS offices whose area of responsibility are not served by RFC's
   prepare and issue both primary and secondary river forecasts.

   When in doubt concerning the accuracy of the forecasts, the WSFO/WSO
   HSA personnel bears full responsibility for contacting the RFC to
   discuss revision. The WSFO/WSO HSA should not issue a different
   forecast without first obtaining approval of the RFC except in
   emergencies or when communications are interrupted.

   In all WSFO's/WSO's HSA there are small headwater areas subject to
   flash floods where forecasting service from the forecast center is
   impractical. The instructions for dealing with flash floods are
   contained in chapter E-13.

   In emergencies, when time does not permit contacting the RFC, the
   WSFO/WSO HSA may issue forecasts. The RFC should, however, be contacted
   as soon as possible, and on the basis of its advice, forecasts already
   issued should be revised if necessary.

   Another major function of the WSFO/WSO HSA is collecting basic data
   from substations and collection centers and forwarding them to the RFC.
   To this end the offices maintain a network of reporting substations
   whose observations of river stage and precipitation are used in
   preparing river forecasts.

   4.3 Substation Supervision. Supervision and operation of reporting
   substations are responsibility of the supervisory WSFO/WSO HSA. Any
   changes in reporting networks; such as, establishment, significant
   relocation, or closure of substation, should be brought to the
   attention of the RFC and the Regional Substation Management Branch,
   either directly or by copies of approval correspondence from the
   regional hydrologist before action is taken by the WSFO/WSO HSA.
   Changes in, or additions to, reporting networks may be suggested by the
   RFC if found desirable for forecasting purposes. Copies of all river
   and/or rainfall reporting station description forms should be provided
   to the RFC. Proper documentation is needed to inform all levels of NWS
   management and the National Climatic Center.

   4.4 Hydrologic Services Manual. Each WSFO/WSO HSA will maintain and
   up-to-date Hydrologic Services Manual. Chapter E-40 outlines the
   contents of the service manual.

   5. Hydrologic Responsibilities at other Weather Service Offices. A
   number of Weather Service offices which are not WSFO's/WSO's HSA have
   been given certain river service responsibilities; such as, collection
   and transmission of data and local flood warning duties. However,
   whether or not the office has been given such definite responsibilities
   in writing, every Weather Service office rendering public service may
   at times be called upon to furnish the public with advice or
   information on river conditions in the vicinity which it serves. In
   order to be able to comply with such requests, Meteorologists in
   Charge/Officials in Charge (MIC's/OIC's) and assistants designated by
   them should be familiar with the river systems in the locality and with
   the area subject to flooding. They should also utilize available
   training in the methods of providing hydrologic services (see chapter
   E-80) when appropriate.

   Contacts should be established with the WSFO/WSO HSA so that the
   necessary river and flood information can be obtained in emergencies or
   as routinely required.

   Both emergency and routine river and flood information should be
   disseminated via newspaper, radio and television, also NOAA Weather
   Radio and Wire, when appropriate. Requests for special services or
   compilations of data should normally be referred to the appropriate
   WSFO/WSO HSA but the station staff may find it convenient to accumulate
   a file of local river data with which to answer the more frequent types
   of queries. The WSFO/WSO HSA can advise on the sources of data for this
   file.

   The role of all National Weather Service offices with regard to flash
   flood watches and warnings is described in chapter E-13.


   WSOM Issuance
   80-15    9-4-80
