http://www.ihs.gov/disclaimer.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

   Access and Disclaimer Statement

   Notice

     To ensure the integrity of information on this server, we reserve
     the right to monitor system access if malicious actions are taken to
     disable our on-line services or intentionally gain unauthorized
     access to Indian Health Service systems.

   Copyright Status

     Most information on this site is in the public domain. Unless stated
     otherwise, documents and files on I H S Web servers can be freely
     downloaded and reproduced. Most documents on this server are
     sponsored by the I H S; however, you may encounter documents that
     were sponsored along with private companies and other organizations.
     Other parties may retain all rights to publish or reproduce these
     documents or to allow others to do so. Some documents available from
     this server may be protected under the U S and foreign copyright
     laws. Permission to reproduce these documents may be required.

   Disclaimer of Endorsement

     General -- I H S does not endorse or recommend any commercial
     products, processes, or services. The views and opinions of authors
     expressed on I H S Websites do not necessarily state or reflect
     those of the U S Government, and they may not be used for
     advertising or product endorsement purposes.
     External Links -- Some I H S sites may provide links to other
     Internet sites only for the convenience of World Wide Web users.
     I H S is not responsible for the availability or content of these
     external sites, nor does I H S endorse, warrant or guarantee the
     products, services or information described or offered at these
     other Internet sites.

   Disclaimer of Liability

     For documents available from this server, the U S Government does
     not warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the
     accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
     product, or process disclosed.

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Wednesday October 31, 2001  4:47 PM
