http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/MediaAlerts/2002/200201247316.html

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                             News

     Media Alerts Stories Archive

     January 24, 2002

     CLIMATE CHANGE FOLLOWING COLLAPSE OF THE MAYA EMPIRE

     Researchers from the University of Amsterdam have demonstrated that the
     climate in South Mexico changed following the collapse of the Maya
     empire. From preserved pollen grains the paleoecologists could deduce
     that the climate quickly became dryer.

     The climate becoming dryer, explains the decrease in the population
     following the collapse of the Maya empire. The climate researchers have
     therefore helped to solve an archaeological mystery.

     With the help of pollen grains, the paleoecologists from Amsterdam
     could accurately reconstruct the climate in a certain region. Each
     plant will only grow under certain conditions. By working out the
     overlap between the possible growth conditions for each plant in an
     area, an accurate picture of the local climate can be constructed.

     In the area inhabited by the Mayas, Southern Mexico and Northern
     Guatemala, the researchers found that round about 1000 AD the climate
     quickly became dryer. This was about 100 years after the collapse of
     the Maya empire. The researchers suspect that after the collapse of the
     well-organised empire, the inhabitants destroyed many wildlife and
     agricultural areas. This led to erosion, as a result of which the
     evaporation, and thus the rainfall, decreased. The pollen grains also
     provided information about farming in the distant past. In Peru the
     paleoecologists could reconstruct how the cultivation of maize and
     grain crops spread over various population groups. Certain population
     groups who lived as hunters and gatherers when the Spaniards arrived,
     were revealed to have a rich agricultural past.

     The pollen research in South and Central America has also provided data
     that are important for current climate research. In an elevated area in
     Colombia, pollen grains were found from the last three million years.
     The paleoecologists examined which plants grew at various carbon
     dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere over the past 450,000 years.
     The carbon dioxide concentration in the air for this period is known,
     thanks to the discovery of frozen air bubbles in ice at the South Pole.
     The comparison revealed that in the past, plant growth was strongly
     correlated with carbon dioxide concentrations. The analyses revealed
     that not only the temperature changed but also the precipitation and
     the season in which this fell.

     ##

     Contact:

     Michel Philippens
     Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research
     31-70-344 0784
     philippens@nwo.nl

     This text derived from http://www.eurekalert.org/bysubject.php?kw=10

     Back to: News


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
