http://cwc.anl.gov/ch9.htm



   CHAPTER 9

                          ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II --
               ACCESS TO FACILITIES AND CONDUCT OF INSPECTIONS

                                                              [cwc.jpg]

      Table Of Contents

      CHAPTER 1 -- GIVING THE CWC FORCE AND EFFECT
      CHAPTER 2 -- THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY
      CHAPTER 3 -- DESTRUCTION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND PRODUCTION FACILITIES
      CHAPTER 4 -- RESTRICTIONS ON CHEMICALS
      CHAPTER 5 -- PENAL LEGISLATION
      CHAPTER 6 -- LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION
      CHAPTER 7 -- DECLARATIONS
      CHAPTER 8 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I -- SELECTION OF SITES AND
      ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTORS

      CHAPTER 9 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II -- ACCESS TO FACILITIES AND CONDUCT
      OF INSPECTIONS
      9.1 Characteristics of Inspections

      9.1.1 Notification
          9.1.2 Pre-Inspection Briefing
          9.1.3 Inspectable Items
          9.1.4 Interviews of Personnel
          9.1.5 Photographs
          9.1.6 Sampling
          9.1.7 Safety and Environmental Protection
          9.1.8 Addressing Ambiguities
          9.1.9 Debriefing
          9.1.10 Ending the Inspection
          9.1.11 Reports

      9.2 State Party Implementation Options: Gaining Access To Inspect
      Facilities
      9.2.1 Harmonizing Inspections with Citizens' Rights

      9.2.1.1 Notification and Timing Requirements
          9.2.1.2 Gaining Access with Search Warrants; Consent from
          Government Licensees
          9.2.1.3 Compel Access
          9.2.1.4 Conduct of Inspections

      9.2.2 State Party Performance of Required Tasks
      9.2.2.1 Negotiation of Facility Agreements
          9.2.2.2 Pre-inspection Activities
          9.2.2.3 Assisting Inspections
          9.2.2.4 Concluding Inspections and Departure

      9.2.3 Obligating Persons to Perform CWC Tasks
      9.2.3.1 Tasks for Facility Owners and Operators
          9.2.3.2 Tasks for Facility Personnel

      9.2.4 Protecting Health and the Environment
      9.2.4.1 CWC Sampling Obligations
          9.2.4.2. Environmental and Safety Concerns During Sampling
          9.2.4.3 Options to Protect the Environment and Safety

      9.2.4.3.1 Environmental/Safety Assessments and Data Disclosure
          9.2.4.3.2 Regulation of Emissions/Discharges
          9.2.4.3.3 Management of Wastes Generated During Inspections
          9.2.4.3.4 Public and Occupational Safety Requirements
          9.2.4.3.5 Hazardous Materials Transportation Requirements

   Conclusions CHAPTER 10 -- CHALLENGE INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 11 -- CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   CHAPTER 12 -- REMEDIES
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation


                                  CHAPTER 9
     __________________________________________________________________

                          ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II --

                          ACCESS TO FACILITIES AND

                           CONDUCT OF INSPECTIONS

   CWC verification inspections uniquely focus on facilities that, in most
   nations, are privately owned. This fact is legally significant. Weapons
   control inspections that focus on government-owned facilities, even if
   intrusive, do not implicate the basic legal protections that most
   societies afford to citizens and private property, such as the rights
   of privacy and due process of law. The CWC is the first multilateral
   weapons control agreement that requires widescale inspection of
   privately-owned sites and thus is the first agreement demanding that
   attention be paid to the legal rights of those sites' owners and
   personnel.

   This Chapter carries forward the previous Chapter's discussion of
   routine inspections without repeating its description of the purposes
   and characteristics of CWC inspections. This Chapter focuses on the
   legal steps necessary to ensure that inspectors may gain access to
   inspectable private facilities and, once there, may carry out their
   CWC-required duties. Analogous issues pertaining to challenge
   inspections will be discussed in the next Chapter.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   9.1 Characteristics of Inspections

   The inspection team's activities are governed by the CWC, rules
   established by the Director-General, and facility agreements concluded
   between State Parties and the OPCW.^(168) Further, the inspection team
   must strictly adhere to and may not exceed the inspection mandate
   issued by the Director-General. Also, the inspection team's activities
   must be conducted to ensure timely and effective discharge of its
   functions and the least possible inconvenience or disturbance to the
   inspected State Party and the facility. The inspection team must not
   operate the facility and must avoid unnecessary interference or delay
   to the facility's operation or affecting its safety.

   The inspected State Party may request that its representatives
   accompany the inspection team while it performs its duties on the
   territory of an inspected State Party or Host State. Also, the
   inspected State Party may observe all verification activities carried
   out by the inspection team.^(169) Further, it may request and receive
   copies of the information and data the Technical Secretariat gathers
   about inspected facility(ies). However, these activities may not delay
   or otherwise hinder the inspection team.

   A State Party must try to ensure that inspections at facilities under
   its jurisdiction or control that are located in the territory of a
   non-State Party can be carried out, and must ensure acceptance by the
   Host State of designated inspectors and inspection assistants.
   Conversely, if the facilities are located on the territory of a State
   Party, but are under the jurisdiction or control of a non-State Party,
   the State Party must take all necessary measures to ensure that
   inspections of such facilities can be carried out.^(170)

   9.1.1 Notification

   The CWC specifies at least 24 hours notice for inspections of a
   Schedule 1 facility, including the single small-scale facility.^(171)
   For inspections of Schedule 2 facilities, the inspected State Party
   must be notified at least 48 hours before the inspection team arrives
   at the site.^(172) Inspections of Schedule 3 facilities, as well as
   "other" chemical production facilities, require that the inspected
   State Party be notified at least 120 hours before the inspection team
   arrives at the inspection site.^(173)

   Notice must provide information concerning: (1) type of inspection; (2)
   point of entry to be used; (3) date and estimated time of arrival at
   the point of entry; (4) means of arrival at the point of entry; (5)
   site to be inspected; (6) names of inspectors and inspection
   assistants; and (7) if appropriate, aircraft clearance for special
   flights. The inspected State Party must acknowledge notification within
   an hour of receiving it.^(174)

   9.1.2 Pre-Inspection Briefing^(175)

   At the site and before the start of the inspection, facility
   representatives, using maps and other appropriate documentation, must
   brief the inspection team on the facility, the activities carried out
   there, safety measures, and administrative and logistical arrangements
   necessary for the inspection. This briefing may not exceed three hours.

   9.1.3 Inspectable Items^(176)

   The inspected State Party may not choose the items to be inspected; the
   inspection team may inspect documentation and records it deems relevant
   to the conduct of its mission. If the inspection team considers it
   necessary, it may request the facility's designated representative to
   have a particular operation carried out to the extent possible.

   9.1.4 Interviews of Personnel^(177)

   The inspected State Party must allow the inspectors to interview any
   facility personnel in the presence of inspected State Party's
   representatives for the purpose of establishing facts necessary to the
   inspection. The inspected State Party may object to questions posed to
   the facility personnel if those questions are deemed irrelevant.

   9.1.5 Photographs^(178)

   Inspectors may demand to have photographs taken by representatives of
   the inspected State Party or of the inspected facility and shall
   determine whether photographs conform to those requested. The inspected
   State Party and inspection team will each retain one copy of every
   photograph.

   9.1.6 Sampling

   The inspected State Party must allow sampling to be performed at the
   inspected facility; if requested by the inspection team, its agents
   must take samples in the presence of inspectors.^(179) The inspection
   team may perform on-site analysis of samples using its approved
   equipment.^(180) At the request of the inspection team, the inspected
   State Party, in accordance with agreed procedures, shall provide
   assistance for on-site analysis of samples. The inspection team or
   inspected State Party may request that the appropriate on-site analysis
   be performed in its presence. The inspected State Party has the right
   to retain portions of all samples taken or to take duplicate
   samples.^(181)

   9.1.7 Safety and Environmental Protection^(182)

   A State Party must "assign the highest priority to ensuring the safety
   of people and to protecting the environment" during the implementation
   of its CWC obligations. Inspection teams must also observe safety
   regulations established at the inspection site.

   9.1.8 Addressing Ambiguities

   The inspectors may "request clarification" as may be necessary to
   remove any ambiguities arising during an inspection.^(183) This
   mechanism can grant inspectors access within the context of a routine
   inspection, without having to resort to a challenge inspection, to
   buildings or structures at the plant site that would not otherwise be
   opened for verification. Such requests must be made promptly through
   the inspected State Party's representative who must provide the
   inspection team with clarification.

   If the inspection team requests access to other parts of the facility
   not covered by the facility agreement (discussed in section 9.2.2.1),
   access to these areas must be granted according to a clarification
   procedure which obligates the inspected State Party to provide the
   inspection team with enough information to clarify the ambiguity.^(184)
   If questions relating to an object or a building located within the
   inspection site are not resolved, the object or building must, if
   requested, be photographed for the purpose of clarifying its nature and
   function. If the ambiguity cannot be resolved during the inspection,
   the inspectors will immediately notify the Technical Secretariat.

   In addition to these specific measures, all CWC States Parties must,
   under Article VII, paragraph 7 "cooperate with the Organization in the
   exercise of all its functions and in particular to provide assistance
   to the Technical Secretariat." Because the Technical Secretariat is
   entrusted with carrying out the CWC's verification measures,^(185)
   States Parties must assist the Technical Secretariat in verifying
   compliance, which could presumably include providing access to areas of
   declared facilities that raise ambiguities.

   9.1.9 Debriefing^(186)

   Within 24 hours after completing an inspection, the inspected State
   Party and the personnel responsible for the inspection site must meet
   with the inspection team to review the team's preliminary findings and
   to clarify any ambiguities. The inspection team will provide its
   preliminary findings to the inspected State Party in standardized
   written form and signed by the head of the inspection team. This
   document will include a list of any samples taken, copies of written
   information and data gathered, and other material to be taken off-site.
   A representative of the inspected State Party must countersign the
   preliminary findings to demonstrate that he/she has notice of the
   contents.

   9.1.10 Ending the Inspection^(187)

   The inspection may be extended by agreement with the representatives of
   the inspected State Party. The inspected State Party or the Host State
   can require the inspection team to leave its territory once the
   inspection team has completed the post-inspection activities.

   9.1.11 Reports^(188)

   Within 10 days after the inspection, the inspectors will prepare and
   deliver to the inspected State Party a confidential final factual
   report on the activities conducted by the inspection team and on their
   findings of facts on CWC compliance. Also, the report will provide
   information as to how the inspected State Party cooperated with the
   inspection team. Finally, differing observations made by inspectors may
   be attached to the report.

   The inspected State Party may make written comments on the reports'
   findings which will be annexed to the report. The final report with the
   inspected State Party's annexed comments will be submitted to the
   Director-General within 30 days after the inspection. The
   Director-General will confront the inspected State Party if the report
   contains any uncertainties or should their cooperation with the
   inspectors not meet the standard requirements. Finally, the
   Director-General will immediately inform the Executive Council if the
   uncertainties cannot be resolved or if the facts suggest that the
   inspected State Party has not met its CWC obligations.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   9.2 State Party Implementation Options: Gaining Access To Inspect
   Facilities

   Several aspects of inspections may require that the State Party be
   empowered and prepared to undertake activities and to require or enable
   others to undertake activities. This section offers guidance to
   determine which types of inspection procedures may require domestic
   implementation. Essentially, there are four types of functions that may
   relate to an inspected State Party during inspections:

   1. Many inspection provisions grant the inspection team certain powers
   to conduct activities at a privately-owned facility within a State
   Party; the State Party must ensure that OPCW will be able to exercise
   these powers without conflicting with the legal rights of facility
   owners or personnel.

   2. Several inspection provisions describe tasks that the State Party
   itself must perform.

   3. A third set of inspection provisions describe tasks that should be
   performed by owners and operators of inspected facilities or facility
   personnel. These tasks could require implementing measures to extend a
   State Party's CWC obligations to private persons.

   4. Finally, the CWC requirement that States Parties protect public
   safety and the environment in carrying out all CWC activities means
   that national implementing measures should be developed to clarify this
   requirement in the context of domestic environmental law.

   9.2.1 Harmonizing Inspections with Citizens' Rights

   As discussed, the CWC authorizes the inspection team to carry out
   numerous activities. Legal issues potentially arise from the fact that
   CWC inspections at chemical facilities introduce an additional level of
   government intrusion into private commercial activity which could
   impinge on rights of privacy. The right to privacy is universally
   acknowledged.^(189) Virtually every nation`s laws explicitly protect
   the right to privacy by constitutional expression, through statutory
   provisions, or judge-made law.

   Under the CWC, inspections must proceed regardless of any privacy
   objections from the facility owner, operator, or personnel. Claims that
   a State Party is hiding behind its protections of individual rights in
   order to limit CWC verification could undermine confidence in the CWC
   enforcement regime. But if CWC inspections are authorized to proceed
   without respecting citizens' legal rights, the State Party may find
   itself in the extremely awkward position of violating its own law in
   order to comply with its international obligations. Even worse, in some
   nations, a court may intercede on behalf of a complaining citizen and
   order that the inspection be barred.

   This section asserts that while potential conflicts between the CWC
   inspection regime and the legal rights of citizens deserve serious
   attention, each State Party can and should successfully resolve those
   conflicts by devising procedures for CWC inspections that enable
   inspectors to fulfill their mission with respect for the rights of
   citizens.

   The starting point is the recognition that, in contrast to homes,
   commercial entities receive only those rights and freedoms the State
   bestows. In nearly all nations, entrepreneurial activity is a privilege
   rather than an entitlement; enterprises are regulated both according to
   their type of activity and to their corporate status. As "legal
   persons," these entities may be entitled to legal protections, but no
   nation grants unqualified or unlimited rights and freedoms to
   commercial entities. Administrative inspections of commercial
   facilities are a normal and integral aspect of regulation. For example,
   industries that pollute or that handle hazardous substances are often
   subject to regulation and inspection. Typically, industries related to
   arms production and defense are subject to inspections.

   Most nations' laws that empower agencies to conduct administrative
   inspections of commercial entities set forth the conditions and
   procedures that inspectors must observe -- especially if the rights of
   inspectees may be transgressed. These laws seek to balance the need to
   administratively inspect commercial facilities with the need to respect
   the legal rights of those facilities' owners and personnel.
   Significantly, "administrative" inspections are distinguished from
   "criminal" or "judicial" inspections. Criminal or judicial inspections
   are intended to investigate criminal activity; because of the serious
   implications of that purpose, criminal inspections are strictly
   regulated and entail numerous prerequisites, such as a showing of
   "probable cause," before the search may proceed. By contrast,
   administrative inspections are meant to verify compliance with and
   prevent violations of administrative regulations; they are subject to
   few restrictions and must satisfy few procedural prerequisites.

   Administrative inspections are narrower, less intrusive and pose less
   of a threat to privacy interests. For example, whereas a search to
   seize criminal evidence generally encompasses both a place and the
   contents of personal areas (such as the insides of drawers, briefcases,
   and personal clothing), administrative searches are limited to physical
   entry into a site to examine whatever the inspector can plainly see.
   Since administrative inspections do not comparably interfere with the
   rights of individuals, evidence can be collected from a regulated
   facility without the formal criminal process of obtaining consent in
   advance, or, in the absence of consent, obtaining a search warrant.
   When administrative regulations require a search warrant or other form
   of permission, it is much easier to obtain than in the criminal
   context.

   The following material suggests options for implementing measures to
   ensure that CWC inspections will be legally viewed as administrative
   inspections, thereby enabling the inspection team to accomplish its
   mission while respecting legal rights of private citizens in accord
   with a State Party's domestic law.^(190) Such measures might provide
   notice of inspections to those who will be inspected, empower
   government officials to obtain search warrants where appropriate,
   compel the owners of inspected facilities to grant access to CWC
   inspectors, and limit the discretion of inspected States Parties'
   observers.

   9.2.1.1 Notification and Timing Requirements

   OPCW inspectors will give advance notice to representatives of the
   State Party, but not necessarily to the owner or operator of the
   inspected facility. This may present a legal problem in nations having
   regulations that explicitly require that notice of an inspection be
   afforded to the property owner so that the owner may have an
   opportunity to be present during the inspection. Therefore, national
   implementing measures should notify facility owners that access may be
   demanded at sites potentially subject to inspection.^(191) Facilities
   should be notified of the purposes of an inspection and the legal
   authority under which they will be conducted.^(192) Sufficient notice
   will allow the facility to prepare for the inspection.

   In addition, the CWC does not explicitly limit the time or day that an
   inspection may proceed. Yet, some nations restrict the timing of
   inspections to daytime or to periods when the facility is otherwise in
   operation. Again, implementing measures could mitigate a potential
   legal problem either by putting facilities on notice that a CWC
   inspection could occur at any time or by specifying that CWC inspectors
   may visit a site only when domestic law authorizes them to be
   there.^(193)

   9.2.1.2 Gaining Access with Search Warrants; Consent from Government
   Licensees

   In most nations, government agents may gain access to privately-owned
   facilities only under specified conditions -- often only with written
   permission in the form of a "search warrant," based on some evidence or
   reasonable suspicion that a violation may be present and specifying how
   the search is to proceed. In some nations, a judicial search warrant or
   order is required for an inspection to proceed. If an inspection is
   attempted without a search warrant, a facility owner may refuse access.
   Other nations only require a search warrant issued by a non-judicial
   (usually administrative) body. In still others, a search warrant is
   required only in limited circumstances, or is generally required but
   subject to numerous exceptions. In a few nations, the requirement of a
   search warrant can be avoided if the inspected party has notice and the
   opportunity to refuse the inspection.

   The CWC does not expressly recognize this legal requirement. A State
   Party that limits CWC inspections, by requiring that a search warrant
   be obtained, risks impeding CWC verification.^(194) A search warrant
   requirement could impermissibly delay inspectors or result in
   limitations on the scope of inspections that are inconsistent with the
   CWC. In nations where a magistrate or judicial officer issues search
   warrants,^(195) denial of a warrant for a CWC inspection could lead to
   accusations that a State Party is hiding behind its protections of
   individual rights in order to limit CWC verification, thereby
   undermining mutual confidence in CWC enforcement.

   If, under national law, search warrants for inspections may be obtained
   without unduly risking denial or judicially-imposed limitations
   inconsistent with the CWC, then governmental authorities should be
   empowered to procure such warrants. No problem is raised if a search
   warrant can be obtained without delay and consistent with CWC
   obligations. However, if a magistrate might, for whatever reason, deny
   permission for an inspection and thereby possibly interfere with the
   State Party's efforts to meet its CWC verification obligations, then a
   legal alternative to the search warrant procedure should be found.

   In some national legal systems, government contractors and licensees
   may be required to consent to CWC verification activities as a
   condition of any new government contract or license.^(196) In some
   legal systems, it may be permissible to modify existing contracts and
   licenses to include this requirement. The ability of a State Party to
   take this type of action may be limited by several principles. First,
   some legal systems may limit the types of government benefits,
   including contracts and licenses, that can be conditioned on consent to
   inspection. There may be a requirement of a nexus between the type of
   government contract and the regulatory aim to be achieved by requiring
   consent. Second, in some countries, requiring consent to a CWC
   inspection in a contract or license may constitute an impermissibly
   compelled waiver of protected rights.

   9.2.1.3 Compel Access

   Even if domestic law properly authorizes a CWC inspection, a facility
   owner might, for whatever reason, try to refuse access. While that
   refusal would likely be illegal, it nevertheless might interfere with
   CWC verification and, in an extreme case, cause a State Party to be in
   non-compliance. Thus, implementing measures should require facility
   owners to provide access to their facilities for CWC inspections. Two
   methods can compel access:

   Implementing measures could provide sanctions (civil or criminal) for
   failure to grant access to CWC inspectors or for any refusal to
   cooperate or comply with lawful requests made by the CWC-responsible
   agency or CWC inspectors. Interfering with CWC inspections in any way
   could also carry some sort of sanction.^(197)

   Another option is to authorize the use of reasonable force as a last
   resort to gain access to a facility. Before force can be used, however,
   the government should have to seek access through legal process (such
   as a judicial or administrative order).^(198)

   9.2.1.4 Conduct of Inspections

   Rules for administrative inspections often specify how the inspection
   is to be conducted. These procedures are designed to protect the due
   process and privacy rights of inspectees and must be obeyed by
   inspectors. CWC implementing measures typically authorize inspectors to
   search documents and records^(199) as well as take samples relevant to
   the inspection's purpose. Some nations limit the access of inspectors
   by barring, except in unique circumstances, electronic surveillance,
   opening mail, vehicle searches, searching an individual's body, or
   taking biomedical samples.^(200)

   Many nations formally limit the scope of CWC inspections to the
   requirements and mission of the search.^(201) Nations differ as to
   whether and under what conditions inspectors may enter areas of a
   facility that are not open to the public nor are directly relevant to
   the regulatory objective of the search. A few nations deny access to
   private areas such as employees' sleeping quarters.^(202) By the same
   logic, some nations permit the inspectors to seize only items relevant
   to demonstrating the facility's compliance with the objective of the
   inspection.^(203) Many nations regulate the discretion of inspectors by
   specifying limits of the search in the search warrant. Finally,
   inspectors may be required to keep a written record of the inspection
   procedures that were followed. A list of items seized must also be made
   and a receipt given to the owner. Failure to comply with the procedures
   may entitle the inspectee to a legal remedy for any injury or may
   render any evidence so seized inadmissible in a later proceeding.
   (Remedies are discussed in Chapter 12).

   Implementing measures could authorize government agents to participate
   in inspections and other activities only in accordance with the
   restrictions of the CWC and national law. These measures should ensure
   that the government does not have excessive discretion to oversee and
   direct inspection activities which could lead to abuses of CWC
   implementing measures under the guise of administrative regulation. The
   CWC must not be used as an excuse for domestic law enforcement agents
   to take steps that they would not otherwise be permitted to take. This
   concern is discussed in Chapter 5, which discusses the CWC obligation
   to enact penal legislation.

   9.2.2 State Party Performance of Required Tasks

   The State Party must perform many functions during CWC inspections.
   These functions can be undertaken by any representative body of the
   State Party, be it the National Authority or some other appropriate
   governmental body.

   9.2.2.1 Negotiation of Facility Agreements

   The CWC provides that facility agreements be negotiated between the
   OPCW and the State Party for each facility having Schedule 1 chemicals
   and for each facility having Schedule 2 chemicals unless the State
   Party agrees that a facility agreement is unnecessary; facility
   agreements may be negotiated for facilities having Schedule 3 or having
   "other" chemicals.^(204) The CWC does not provide that the facility
   owner or operator be involved in this process. Yet, it may be advisable
   for a State Party, on its own initiative, to allow facility owners of
   sites for which facility agreements will be negotiated to participate
   in those negotiations.^(205) Allowing facility owners to participate
   would not only provide notice of the fact of an inspection but would
   also inform them of the time and scope of such an inspection and would
   provide the opportunity to work with the OPCW to avert searches of
   irrelevant areas and objects.

   9.2.2.2 Pre-inspection Activities

   Many tasks will have to be performed prior to any inspection. As an
   initial step, the inspected State Party must receive and acknowledge
   receipt of notification of the inspection.^(206) The inspected State
   Party will also be responsible for safely getting the inspection team
   and its equipment from the point of entry to the inspection site. The
   inspected State Party may also need to take steps to assemble the
   required pre-inspection briefing.^(207)

   9.2.2.3 Assisting Inspections

   The conduct of inspections will often require the inspected State
   Party's assistance. Generally, States Parties should assist the
   inspection team and provide the support necessary for the inspection
   team to discharge its functions in a timely and effective manner. The
   inspected State Party may empower its representative accompanying the
   inspection team to perform certain tasks on the State Party's behalf,
   such as taking photographs, sampling, and providing assistance or
   performing other related tasks.^(208) In addition, a State Party has
   the right to object to questions posed by the inspection team to
   facility personnel that the State Party deems irrelevant to the
   inspection.

   9.2.2.4 Concluding Inspections and Departure

   At the conclusion of an inspection, the State Party may agree to extend
   its duration.^(209) The State Party may also need to expedite the
   required post-inspection briefing and, at that briefing, review the
   inspection team's preliminary findings and comment thereon. Finally,
   the State Party may have to assist the inspection team in its departure
   from its territory.

   9.2.3 Obligating Persons to Perform CWC Tasks

   Many of the activities required by the Convention may be carried out by
   private persons. In some instances, the CWC refers to "facility
   personnel" or a "representative of the inspected facility," suggesting
   that facility personnel must carry out certain functions. In other
   instances, the CWC requires a State Party to perform certain tasks that
   could not realistically be carried out without involving facility
   owners and operators or personnel. This subsection examines those CWC
   provisions that may involve private persons and considers the tasks
   that they must perform. In this way, implementing measures within the
   various legal systems may need to apply certain CWC provisions to
   private persons.

   One way to compel private persons to perform necessary CWC tasks would
   be to penalize refusal or failure to perform those functions, subject
   to the specifications of national legal systems.^(210) Penalties could
   apply to facility owners and operators and facility personnel where
   applicable. As discussed in Chapter 5, inclusion of these types of
   penal provisions is not required by the treaty, but extending penal
   measures to these acts could improve compliance.

   9.2.3.1 Tasks for Facility Owners and Operators

   Each State Party must obligate private facility owners and operators to
   perform CWC tasks;^(211) if those owners/operators do not so perform,
   the State Party could find it difficult to meet its treaty obligations.
   The types of requirements that implementing measures could apply to
   owners and operators might include, but are not limited to:

   granting the inspection team access to the inspection site;

   providing relevant information to the State Party to enable it to
   negotiate facility agreements in regard to certain facilities, and
   perhaps to be directly involved in the negotiations;

   providing certain amenities to the inspection team at the inspection
   site (e.g., communication means, workspace, etc.);

   allowing the inspection team to use equipment at the plant site;

   designating a representative to participate in the pre-inspection
   briefing and the post-inspection de-briefing;

   allowing the inspection team to interview facility personnel;^(212)

   designating personnel to take photographs and samples as the State
   Party or the inspection team requests;^(213)

   making arrangements for the on-site analysis of samples; and

   designating an individual to meet with the State Party to review the
   inspection team's findings and clarify ambiguities.^(214)

   9.2.3.2 Tasks for Facility Personnel

   The types of requirements that implementing measures could apply to
   facility personnel might include, but are not limited to:

   taking photographs as the State Party or the inspection team requests;

   taking samples at the request of the inspection team;

   assisting with the on-site analysis of samples;

   performing operations requested by the inspection team to the extent
   possible;

   assisting with the operation of equipment at the site that the State
   Party allows the inspection team to use; and

   answering questions posed by the inspection team.

   The unqualified obligation to answer relevant questions raises
   potential problems as to self-incrimination. Nearly every nation's laws
   protect persons from being forced to give testimony that may later be
   used against him/her. Moreover, State Party representatives will
   accompany the inspectors and may overhear responses that may implicate
   violations of national laws (e.g. environmental or narcotics
   violations) even though those replies may be innocent within the CWC
   context. It may be crucial, therefore, for a State Party to establish
   legal mechanisms to protect persons who cooperate with CWC inspectors
   from incriminating themselves, including grants of immunity from
   prosecution based on the evidence so revealed.^(215)

   9.2.4 Protecting Health and the Environment

   CWC States Parties must protect safety and the environment while
   carrying out all CWC activities. Article VII, para. 3 provides: "[e]ach
   State Party, during the implementation of its obligations under this
   Convention, shall assign the highest priority to ensuring the safety of
   people and to protecting the environment, and shall cooperate as
   appropriate with other States Parties in this regard."

   National implementing measures should clarify this requirement in the
   context of domestic environmental and safety law. Importantly, this
   requirement does not in any way suggest a justifiable limitation on a
   State Party's compliance with the obligations associated with on-site
   inspections.

   9.2.4.1 CWC Sampling Obligations

   For most States Parties, sampling during inspections is the CWC
   activity that might trigger the CWC's environmental and safety
   obligations. CWC-related sampling at an inspected facility must ensure
   that: (1) no Schedule 1 chemicals are being produced, (2) quantities
   produced of Schedule 2, Schedule 3, discrete organic chemicals or
   PSF-chemicals are consistent with the State Party's declarations, and
   (3) Scheduled chemicals are not being diverted for purposes prohibited
   by the CWC.

   An inspected State Party must allow sampling to be performed at the
   inspected facility. At the inspection team's request, representatives
   of the inspected State Party or the inspected facility must take
   samples in the inspectors' presence. If the State Party or the facility
   agree in advance, inspectors may take samples themselves.^(216) [It
   should be noted that sampling may be undertaken in connection with
   perimeter activities during a challenge inspection; the inspection team
   may take wipes, air, soil or effluent samples from its arrival at the
   relevant perimeter until the inspection's completion.]^(217)

   Where possible, the inspection team will analyze the samples on-site
   using their own equipment. The inspected State Party shall assist in
   the analysis if the inspection team so requests. Alternatively, the
   inspection team may request that analysis be performed in its presence.
   Whatever procedure is followed, the inspected State Party is entitled
   to retain portions of any samples taken. The inspected State Party also
   has the right to take duplicate samples and to be present when samples
   are analyzed on-site.^(218) If the inspection team deems it necessary,
   it may transfer samples for analysis off-site at laboratories
   designated by the OPCW.

   The Director-General is responsible for the security, integrity, and
   preservation of samples and for protecting the confidentiality of
   samples transferred for analysis off-site.^(219) Specifically, the
   Director-General shall:

   1. establish a stringent regime governing the collection, handling,
   transport, and analysis of samples;

   2. certify the laboratories designated to perform different types of
   analysis;

   3. oversee the standardization of equipment and procedures at
   designated laboratories, monitor analytical equipment and procedures,
   and monitor quality control and overall standards in relation to the
   certification of these laboratories, mobile equipment and procedures;
   and

   4. select from among the designated laboratories those which shall
   perform analytical or other functions in relation to specific
   investigations.

   Any off-site analysis must be performed in at least two laboratories
   designated by the OPCW. The Technical Secretariat must ensure the
   expeditious processing of the analysis. The Technical Secretariat must
   account for samples, and any unused samples or portions thereof shall
   be returned to the Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat
   shall compile the results of the laboratory analysis of samples
   relevant to CWC compliance and include them in the final inspection
   report. The Technical Secretariat shall include in the report detailed
   information concerning the equipment and methodology employed by the
   designated laboratories.^(220)

   9.2.4.2. Environmental and Safety Concerns During Sampling

   The processes of taking samples, whether gaseous or liquid,^(221)
   performing chemical analysis procedures, or managing excess sample
   material could result in a release of hazardous pollutants to the
   atmosphere or a discharge of hazardous material to a water course or to
   a public water treatment plant from the inspected facility or the
   analyzing laboratory. In addition, the handling or transportation of
   certain substances could implicate national environment and safety
   standards. Moreover, after the analysis is complete, the excess sample
   material or chemical analysis residue may need to be discarded as a
   hazardous waste. Finally, any equipment that incorporates filters in
   the analysis process (e.g., charcoal) may generate contaminated filter
   material that also may be a hazardous waste.

   Sampling for undeclared scheduled chemicals raises different concerns
   than does sampling for declared chemicals from a process or storage
   tank. For example, though a facility may routinely sample specific
   production lines for quality assurance, it may never have sampled areas
   of concern to CWC inspectors, including: feed lines, temporary process
   storage areas, waste streams, or raw material storage containers.
   Taking samples from these areas may generate new waste streams or
   result in unusual releases of almost any chemical manufactured,
   processed, or consumed at the inspected facility. These sampling
   activities, and the resulting discharges or wastes, may be outside the
   inspected facility's normal or permitted operations and, therefore, may
   require special management procedures under national environmental and
   safety standards.

   9.2.4.3 Options to Protect the Environment and Safety

   The requirement to protect the environment and safety does not impose
   primary obligations on States Parties to regulate chemical industry
   activities in any particular manner. It suggests only that CWC
   compliance activities must proceed with consideration of their
   environmental and safety consequences and that these activities fully
   comply with domestic regulatory laws as well as any relevant
   international obligations.^(222) A number of factors will determine
   what standards may apply to a particular inspection, including: (1) the
   type of facility being inspected (i.e., chemical plant, processing
   plant, bulk storage area, or laboratory); (2) the nature of the hazard
   created (i.e., flammable, combustible, or toxic); and (3) the specific
   hazardous material being sampled.

   States Parties may formulate a number of alternatives to fulfill these
   obligations. A State Party might decide that the best way to "assign
   the highest priority" to these concerns would be to apply existing
   domestic environmental and safety regulations to the inspection
   process. Alternatively, a State Party may draft new environmental and
   safety regulations that pertain only to CWC activities. Due to the
   great variation among States Parties' national environmental and safety
   controls, the important task is to clarify the issues concerning
   compliance with environmental and safety requirements raised implicitly
   by the CWC inspection sampling scheme. The following sections identify
   some potential environmental and safety requirements so that
   governments and private citizens can know in advance how to meet their
   CWC verification obligations in an environmentally protective and safe
   manner.

   This section addresses five key environmental and safety protection
   processes: (1) how to assess, in advance of an inspection, the risk of
   adverse environmental effects and disclose relevant information; (2)
   how to issue or modify permits regulating air and water pollution
   emissions so that facilities are not thrown out of regulatory
   compliance by CWC inspections; (3) how to manage the handling and
   disposal of hazardous materials; and (4) how to accommodate inspections
   with regulatory protections for worker and public safety; and (5) how
   to manage the transportation of hazardous substances.

   9.2.4.3.1 Environmental/Safety Assessments and Data Disclosure

   In many nations, a government agency must evaluate the potential
   environmental impacts of a proposed activity and assess, in advance,
   the proposal's short- and long-term environmental consequences and
   alternatives that may be less environmentally threatening. A report may
   have to be written on the CWC inspection program's potential
   environmental and safety impacts.

   Facility owners may also have to disclose information. Facilities
   using, handling, or storing threshold quantities of hazardous
   substances may be required to provide information to a domestic
   regulatory body, or, in some nations, to the public, for CWC sampling
   activities in addition to the facility's current disclosure statements.
   Moreover, if domestic law requires facility operators to prepare plans
   to deal with emergencies in the event of an accident at the facility,
   and if CWC inspection activities would present additional risks of an
   unplanned release of hazardous substances, existing emergency response
   plans may have to be modified and emergency response personnel
   informed.

   9.2.4.3.2 Regulation of Emissions/Discharges

   CWC sampling activities conducted at a chemical facility could result
   in emissions of highly toxic pollutants. In many nations, specific
   regulations control the emission of hazardous pollutants and set strict
   limits for emissions in order to protect the public from any known or
   anticipated effects. Normally, facility-specific permits are issued
   that stipulate the pollution control technology to be used or limit how
   much pollution may be emitted during a given time period. If a
   CWC-inspected facility possesses a pollution control permit, that
   permit may cover releases occasioned by CWC sampling. However, a
   facility might need authorization to exceed the limits of its permit if
   CWC sampling activities would cause it to release more and/or different
   pollutants than are allowed by its permit. A facility may be allowed to
   modify its permit to cover different pollutants or slight increases in
   its emissions during CWC inspections.

   9.2.4.3.3 Management of Wastes Generated During Inspections

   Many nations regulate hazardous waste to ensure their safe
   accumulation, storage, treatment and disposal. If the facility has been
   issued a permit for any of these activities, it may be required to
   obtain a permit modification for unusual hazardous wastes generated
   during an inspection (i.e., purge liquids, sample residues, equipment
   filters, spent reactants, or excess sample material). For an inspected
   facility that was not previously required to have a permit or a
   facility whose permit does not include the activities associated with
   the inspection, regulations may enable the facility to obtain an
   emergency permit for the one-time CWC verification activity.

   9.2.4.3.4 Public and Occupational Safety Requirements

   A facility or person handling, storing, or transporting hazardous
   materials may be required to meet specific operational procedures,
   exposure limits, and personal protective equipment requirements. CWC
   national implementing measures may require that inspection activities
   comply with these requirements.^(223) If inspection sampling activities
   introduce new substances or operations, the facility owner may have to
   take additional steps to inform, train, and equip the inspection team
   and affected facility personnel. A CWC inspected facility may be
   required to store and handle hazardous material in a specified manner.
   To prevent a hazardous work place situation from developing due to CWC
   activities, the facility may be required to develop an occupational
   safety and health program with which an inspection team must comply.

   In some nations, special regulations may apply to laboratories and
   their workers when using substances for which there is evidence of
   acute or chronic health effects. In particular, written laboratory
   hygiene procedures may have to be developed for the handling of such
   extremely hazardous substances, including the use of containment
   devices, management of contaminated waste, and decontamination
   procedures in the case of accidental exposure. A laboratory receiving
   an unknown sample from an inspection may have to modify its chemical
   hygiene plans and procedures to ensure worker safety.

   9.2.4.3.5 Hazardous Materials Transportation Requirements

   Many nations have adopted regulations on the transportation of
   hazardous materials that reflect the United Nations Recommendations on
   the

   Transportation of Dangerous Goods (UN Recommendations), the
   International Civil Aviation Organization's Technical Instructions for
   the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air (ICAO Technical
   Instructions) and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG
   Code). These hazardous materials transportation regulations include
   requirements for documenting, marking, labeling, and placarding
   hazardous materials shipments, the training of transportation personnel
   for emergency response, and very specific hazardous materials
   packaging. The shipment of sample materials to and from off-site
   laboratories or to the Technical Secretariat may have to comply with
   national or international transportation requirements.

   International shipments of hazardous waste, which in some countries may
   include unused or excess chemical sample materials bound for the
   Technical Secretariat, may have to comply with the Basel Convention on
   the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their
   Disposal^(224) which requires its member states to give notification of
   any intent to export hazardous waste to another country and receive
   written consent from the state of import.

   Therefore, if a sample is to be sent to an off-site laboratory, it may
   have to comply with the national hazardous materials transportation
   requirements. Once the analysis is completed, the excess sample
   material, sample residues, and other wastes generated during the
   inspection or chemical analysis bound for disposal would have to comply
   with requirements for the shipment of hazardous wastes. If unused or
   excess sample material is to be turned over to the Technical
   Secretariat, it may have to comply with international hazardous
   materials transportation requirements or, possibly, with the Basel
   Convention requirements if the sample material is considered a
   hazardous waste in either the exporting or importing country.

   Conclusions

   CWC inspections at private facilities raise serious legal issues
   concerning the rights of those facility owners and personnel. While the
   rules regarding the conduct of inspections are stipulated in great
   detail in the Convention, the CWC makes no provision as to how to
   accomplish required tasks consistent with national protection of
   individual rights. Implementation of these inspections should,
   therefore, correspond to other forms of important government regulation
   that impact on individual rights and liberties. Balancing the need for
   transparency under the CWC with respect for individual rights may prove
   more difficult to resolve in some countries than others, but each State
   Party should at least consider them under national law.

   In this context, each State Party must: (1) enable the inspection teams
   to gain access to facilities, (2) perform inspection-related tasks; (3)
   require persons at facilities to perform specific tasks; and (4)
   protect public safety and the environment. Although the CWC's
   verification measures provoke unprecedented legal issues, successful
   implementation throughout the world community, consistent with
   protection of legal rights, is entirely possible and can proceed
   effectively.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Table Of Contents

   Chapter 1 -- Giving the CWC Force and Effect
   Chapter 2 -- The National Authority
   Chapter 3 -- Destruction of Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities
   Chapter 4 -- Restrictions on Chemicals
   Chapter 5 -- Penal Legislation
   Chapter 6 -- Legal Assistance and Cooperation
   Chapter 7 -- Declarations
   Chapter 8 -- Routine Inspections I -- Selection of Sites and
   Arrangements for Inspectors
   Chapter 9 -- Routine Inspections II -- Access to Facilities and Conduct
   of Inspections
   Chapter 10 -- Challenge Inspections
   Chapter 11 -- Confidential Information
   Chapter 12 -- Remedies
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation
