http://www.customs.gov/travel/faq.htm

   Traveler Information
   Frequently Asked Questions

   CONTENTS:
     * Why Was I Charged Duty on My Duty-Free Purchases?
     * How Do I Apply for a Passport?
     * I'm Here on a Visa. Can I Leave & Come Back?
     * What Gives U.S. Customs the Right to Search Me?
     * Why Did U.S. Customs Take My Food?
     * What Do I Need to Know about Traveling with Medication/Buying
       Medication Outside the United States?
     * How Much Money May I Bring Into/Take Out of the United States?
     * How Can I Prove I Didn't Buy My Watch/Camera During My Trip Outside
       the United States?
     * What Can I Take into France, China ...?
     * Questions Regarding Sales Tax

   Q: Why Was I Charged Duty on My Duty-Free Purchases?

   A: Many travelers are confused by the term "duty-free" as it relates to
   merchandise they buy in duty-free shops.

   Buying an item in a duty-free shop does not mean that you will not have
   to pay duty on the item when you take it into your destination country.
   It only means that the item you are buying does not reflect the cost of
   duty or taxes that would have been added to the item if it had been
   formally imported into the country where the duty-free shop is located.

   Duty-free shops are shops where taxes on commercial goods are neither
   collected by a government, nor paid by an importer. An English-made
   wool sweater purchased in a clothing store in Germany may cost you
   $250.00, a price that includes the duty and taxes that the importer
   paid to import it. The same sweater purchased in a duty-free shop may
   only cost $225.00. That's because as long as the sweater stays in the
   duty-free shop, or exits the country with the purchaser, it has not
   been formally imported into the country. There has been no duty charged
   on the sweater, and the duty-free shop owner has been able to pass that
   savings on to you. Its price is free of duty, or "duty-free".

   Now, when you bring that same sweater back home with you to the U.S.,
   you may have to pay duty on the sweater if you exceed your personal
   exemption.

   Go To Top Of Page

   Q: How Do I Apply for a Passport?

   A: Passports are issued by the Office of Consular Affairs, U.S.
   Department of State.

   Go To Top Of Page

   Q: I am Here on a Visa. Can I Leave & Come Back into the United States?

   A: There are many types of visas issued to visitors to the United
   States. Each visa has certain restrictions placed on it. The Office of
   Consular Affairs has general information about travel restrictions
   associated with each visa. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
   is the agency that enforces those restrictions. If you believe you have
   a situation that is not covered by the general guidelines, you should
   contact them for more information.

   Go To Top Of Page

   Q: Why Did U.S. Customs Take My Food?

   A: Because Customs inspectors are stationed at ports of entry and along
   our land and sea borders, they are often called upon to enforce laws
   and requirements of other Government agencies. This is done to protect
   community health, preserve domestic plant and animal life, etc.

   Most fruits and vegetables are either prohibited from entering the
   United States or require an import permit. Every fruit or vegetable
   must be declared to the Customs officer and must be presented for
   inspection, no matter how free of pests it appears to be. Failure to
   declare all food products can result in civil penalties. Meats,
   livestock, poultry, and their by-products are either prohibited or
   restricted from entering the United States, depending on the animal
   disease condition in the country of origin. Fresh meat is generally
   prohibited from most countries. Canned, cured, or dried meat is
   severely restricted from most countries. Bakery items and all cured
   cheeses are generally admissible. You should contact the U.S.
   Department of Agriculture, Animal Plant Health Inspection Services for
   more detailed information.

   Go To Top Of Page

   Q: How Can I Prove I Didn't Buy My Watch/Camera During My Trip Outside
   the United States?

   A: Foreign-made personal articles taken abroad are subject to duty each
   time they are brought back into the United States unless you have
   acceptable proof of prior possession. Documents which fully describe
   the article, such as a bill of sale, insurance policy, jeweler's
   appraisal, or receipt for purchase, may be considered reasonable proof
   of prior possession.

   Items such as watches, cameras, compact disc players, or other articles
   which may be readily identified by a permanently affixed serial number
   or marking, may be taken to the Customs office nearest you and
   registered before your departure. The Certificate of Registration (CF
   4457) that you will be given will expedite the free entry of these
   items when you return. Keep the certificate as it is valid for as long
   as you own the article(s).

   Go To Top Of Page

   Q: What Can I Take into France, China, etc. ?

   A: Each country's laws are different. Check with the nearest consulate
   office for information on a particular country that you will be
   visiting. The airlines that fly to the country you are interested in
   may also be of assistance.

   Go To Top Of Page
