http://warner.senate.gov/pressoffice/statements/march2002.htm

  Senator Warner speaking to the press. Warner Main Page Banner Warner
                                                                Main Page Banner


   About the Senator Link
   Legislation Link
   Press Office Link
   Services Link
   Accomplishments Link
   Tourism Link
   Kids Link
   Contact Link
   Contact the Senator

   [pressreleases_i.gif] [statements_a.gif] [audio-video_i.gif]
   [gallery_i.gif] [armedservices_i.gif]

   Dear Fellow Virginians:

   Thank you for visiting my office in conjunction with the 2002 March for
   Life (photo).

   I always enjoy the opportunity to meet with Virginians who participate
   in the march to discuss the progress that we have made and the work yet
   to be done in reducing abortions in our country. Year after year,
   courtesy and firmness of conviction have been the hallmarks of your
   visits.

   Over the coming months, the 107th Congress will continue to work on
   issues of importance to the pro-life movement. I would like to
   highlight some of my past efforts.



   I commend President Bush for strongly supporting legislation to ban
   human cloning. The House of Representatives has voted in support of
   such legislation, and I look forward to voting this year in the Senate
   to ban human cloning.



   I have voted consistently against proposed amendments that would have
   allowed taxpayer funded abortions. We must respect the convictions of
   those of us who are opposed to federally funded abortion.



   On June 14, 2001, I voted in support of the Born Alive Infants
   Protection Act amendment to S.1052, the Patients Bill of Rights. This
   legislation is now expected to proceed to a House/Senate Conference
   Committee where differences between the House and Senate bills will be
   discussed. There has been testimony of occurrences where an abortion
   procedure has resulted in a live child born and subsequently terminated
   outside the womb. This legislation will federally protect these
   children born outside the womb, regardless of the mothers intent to
   have an abortion.



   I have been a longstanding cosponsor of the Partial Birth Abortion Ban
   Act, which would ban abortions involving the partial delivery of the
   fetus. Given the recent U.S. Supreme Court decision invalidating a
   Nebraska Partial Birth Abortion law, any act of Congress outlawing
   partial birth abortion must carefully take into account this Supreme
   Court decision.



   I am especially proud to join with you in supporting parental
   notification requirements for minors seeking abortions at federally
   funded clinics. In September 1998, I voted to add teeth to Virginia's
   parental notification law by supporting the Child Custody Protection
   Act. This legislation, which was thwarted by parliamentary maneuvers by
   opponents, would have prohibited transporting a child under age 18
   across a state line to have an abortion if the parental involvement law
   in the state where the child resides was not followed before obtaining
   the abortion.

   Again, thank you for taking the time to come to your Capitol to fight
   for your beliefs, and thank you for meeting with me to provide me with
   your views on this very important issue.

                  About the Senator  ·  Legislation  ·  Press
        Office  ·  Services  ·  Accomplishments  ·  Tourism  ·  Kid's
                                Page  ·  Contact
