http://www.samhsa.gov/oas/highlights.htm




   Click for DHHS Home Page
   Click for the SAMSHA Home Page
   Click for the OAS Drug Abuse Statistics Home Page
   [menubar_2.jpg]
   Click for What's New Click for Recent Reports and Highlights Click for
   Publications Click for Frequently Asked Questions Click for Short
   Reports and Facts Click for Data on Specific Drugs of Use Click for OAS
   Data Systems and more Pubs Click to send OAS Comments, Questions and
   Requests Click for OAS Home Page Click for Sustance Abuse and Mental
   Health Services Administration Home Page Click to Search Our Site

      Highlights of Recent Reports on Substance Abuse and Mental Health


                                JUST RELEASED:

     The NHSDA Report:  Illicit Drug Use Among Youths Who Used Cigarettes
     and Alcohol

     Treatment Episode Data Set (TEDS) 1994-1999: National Admissions to
     Substance Abuse Treatment Services (PDF format)


              Highlights of recently released OAS Data Reports:
     *   Youths who were past month users of both cigarettes and alcohol
       were more than twice as likely to have used illicit drugs than
       youths who used only cigarettes or only alcohol.  See The NHSDA
       Report:  Illicit Drug Use Among Youths Who Used Cigarettes and
       Alcohol.
     * The annual number of new cigar users in the U.S. climbed steadily
       from 1990 to 1998 but decreased 22 percent between 1998 and 1999.
       See The NHSDA Report:  Cigar Use.

     * Trends among treatment admission from 1993 to 1999 show declining
       admission rates for primary cocaine abuse in most states.  See The
       DASIS Report:  Cocaine Treatment Admissions Decrease: 1993-1999.
     * The annual number of new cigar users in the U.S. climbed steadily
       from 1990 to 1998 but decreased 22 percent between 1998 and 1999.
       See  The NHSDA Report:  Cigar Use.
     * Whites were more likely than Hispanics, blacks, and Asians to
       report driving under the influence of alcohol during the past
       year.  See The NHSDA Report:  Alcohol Use
     * Marijuana use was higher among youth who perceived high rates of
       such neighborhood characteristics as crime, drug selling, street
       fights, abandoned buildings, and graffiti than youth perceiving low
       rates of such neighborhood characteristics.  See  The NHSDA
       Report:  Neighborhood Characteristics and Youth Marijuana Use
     * Alcohol abuse admissions among older adults declined between 1994
       and 1999, but illicit drug admissions increased.  See The DASIS
       Report:  Older Adults in Substance Abuse Treatment
       .
     * In 2000, an estimated 568,000 persons aged 55 or older had used
       illicit drugs in the past month and over 5 million were "binge"
       alcohol users, including more than 1 million who were heavy alcohol
       users.  See The NHSDA Report:  Substance Use Among Older Adults.

     * By 1999, high amphetamine treatment admission rates were seen in
       most States west of the Mississippi.  See The DASIS Report:
       Amphetamine Treatment Admissions Increase:  1993-1999.

     * Among males aged 18 to 25, veterans were more likely than
       nonveterans to report past month alcohol use.  See The NHSDA
       Report:  Alcohol Use Among Veterans
     * Youth who reported participating in violence during the past year
       were more likely to use alcohol and illicit drugs during the past
       month than youths who did not report past year violence.  See The
       NHSDA Report:  Youth Violence Linked to Substance Use

     * In 1999, veterans accounted for more than 65,000 admissions for
       substance abuse treatment.  See The DASIS Report:  Veterans in
       Substance Abuse Treatment

     * Females aged 12 to 17 were more likely than their male peers to
       report that cocaine, crack, LSD, and heroin were fairly or very
       easy to obtain.  See The NHSDA Report:  Availability of Illicit
       Drugs to Females Aged 12 to 17

     SAMHSA's Latest Household Survey:  Summary of Findings from the 2000
     National Household Survey on Drug Abuse

     Check out all the OAS Short Reports

     Check out the list of recently released OAS Reports (What's New)


Go to SAMHSA Home Page

                                          Click to Return to OAS Home Page

                                Click here to Email OAS Substance Abuse Data Questions

                                      Click For Non-frames / text version of site

            This page was last updated on 18 January, 2002.

  SAMHSA, an agency in the Department of Health and Human Services, is
   the Federal Government's lead agency for improving the quality and
  availability of substance abuse prevention, addiction treatment, and
              mental health services in the United States.

       Privacy Statement  |  Site Disclaimer  |   Accessibility

   What's New Highlights Pubs FAQ Short Reports Data Mail OAS SAMHSA
                                                                     Search
