http://www.r5.pswfs.gov/class_action/

 Forest Service shield, which is the agency logo that links to the regional
                    site. Region 5 Class Action Home Page

                            Informational Update
            Donnelly et. al. v. Glickman class action litigation

   Implementation of Donnelly v. Veneman Settlement Agreement (04/04/2001;
                                  PDF: 31k)

                       Settlement Agreement (PDF; 84k)

          Appendix I - Complaint Administrator Procedures (PDF; 9k)

                         Fairness Notice (PDF; 25k)

                          Complaint Form (PDF; 12k)

                 Questions & Answers (12/19/2000, PDF; 11k)

                           Accessibility Statement

                             About this Website

    Welcome to the information center for information on the Donnelly et.
     al. v. Glickman class action lawsuit. This website will provide you
     with information on the litigation, including the full text of the
   settlement agreement and updates as the settlement agreement progresses
   through final approval and implementation. This site will also contain
     information on opportunities to participate in some of the actions
    associated with the settlement agreement as it moves through approval
     and implementation. For example, currently on the site you can find
                information on the upcoming Fairness Hearing.

                            About the Litigation

     In December, 1995 two Forest Service employees filed a lawsuit that
    alleged "a pattern and practice" of sexual harassment in Region 5 of
     the Forest Service. The lawsuit became a class action suit when the
       class was certified by the Court in February of 1997. The Class
      included all past and current non-supervisory female employees of
      Region Five since Feb 1, 1994, who have been or are subject to a
   sexually hostile work environment and who are seeking equitable relief
                                    only.

      The Agency has been involved in efforts to settle the suit since
      February of 1997. Mediation began in October of 1998. The parties
       reached a settlement agreement in late 2000, and the Court gave
    preliminary approval of the settlement agreement on November 1, 2000.

                                 Whats Next?

     The settlement agreement becomes final after the Court has assessed
      whether it is a fair, adequate, and reasonable resolution to the
       litigation. To do that, the Court has set a Fairness Hearing to
   consider the settlement agreement on Friday, February 2, 2001, at 3:00
                                    p.m.

   Updated April 4, 2001
