http://www.treasurydirect.gov/sav/savcalc.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   Savings Bond Calculator
   Savings Bond Calculator
                           INSTRUCTIONS


   line divider
   Picture of a person at a desk
                                   * Finding your bond's worth
                                   * Building an inventory
                                   * Questions about what you see?
                                   * Want to save your inventory?
                                   * Reporting tax annually?
                                   * Get Started

   To find what your bond is worth today:
    1. Choose the series and denomination of your bond from the series and
       denomination drop down boxes.
    2. Enter the issue date that is printed on the bond.
       Note: Enter two digit months (e.g. 01, 12) and four-digit years
       (e.g. 1985 or 2001).
    3. Click the 'Add' button.

   To build an inventory of bonds:
    1. Repeat the above process for each of your bonds.
    2. The calculator will add each new bond to the top of your inventory
       listing.

   To find what your bonds are worth in other months:
   If you'd like to see what your bonds were worth in the past or will be
   worth in the near future
    1. Change the 'Value as of' date at the top of the calculator to the
       desired date
    2. Click 'Update'.
    3. Your inventory will update to show the values or your bonds as of
       the date you enter.
    4. The Calculator can currently show you what your bonds were worth
       from 01/1996 through the current rate period.

   Not sure what data the Calculator is giving you?
   If you have questions about any of the fields that are displayed, click
   'Help' button at the top of the calculator. You'll be taken to our help
   area where you can find short descriptions of what you're seeing in
   those fields.

   Want to save your inventory?
   Now you can save your inventory so you can update your bond values
   quickly and easily. All you need to do is use your browser's built in
   saving function. Click 'File' and 'Save As' and name your inventory.
   Make sure that you save your file as an "HTML Only" file and click
   'Save'. You've saved your file! If you'd like more detail, check out
   our Detailed Instructions Page.
   Do you report savings bond interest to the IRS every year as it
   accrues?
   If you report interest annually, check out the calculator's YTD
   Interest feature. It reports the amount of interest your bonds have
   accrued from the start of a year through the date you enter in the
   "Value as of" section. Here's how you can use this feature to easily
   figure the amount of interest your bonds accrued in one calendar year:
    1. List the bonds you want to report annually.
    2. Enter December of the tax year in the 'Value as of' box. For
       example, if you want to find the interest your bonds accrued in
       1999, enter 12/1999 in the 'Value as of' box.
    3. Find the value in the 'YTD Interest' box. That's the amount of
       interest your bonds accrued that year.

                                 Get Started

   See Also:

     * Growth Calculator
     * Savings Planner
     * Tax Advantages Calculator
     * Savings Bond Wizard^TM
     * Treasury Direct

   Line Divider

                          Updated December 28, 2001
