http://www.trade.wa.gov/whyis.htm

                          [USEMAP:newtradewebhdr.gif]

                           Why is Trade Important?

   The State of Washington’s modern infrastructure system and geographical
   position, equidistant between Europe and Asia, puts it in an ideal
   position to take advantage of the globalization and growing
   interdependence of the world economy. In today’s global economy,
   international trade is increasingly becoming the engine of growth for
   economic development around the world. In the United States,
   international trade’s share of the country’s total GDP has grown from
   11% in 1970 to nearly 30% today. In view of this dramatic shift at the
   national level, it comes as no surprise that international trade also
   has become more and more important to the economic well-being of
   Washington State over the last three decades.

   In fact, the State of Washington is the most trade-oriented state in
   America. Washington State is home to the United State’s largest
   exporter, the Boeing Company, as well as thousands of smaller business.
   Our state contains only 2% of the US population but accounts for 7% of
   the country’s exports. In 1998, per capita exports, not including
   services, in Washington State reached $7,345 per year, in comparison to
   $3,561 for the rest of the United States. According to a recent study,
   exports constituted approximately 19% of the state’s GDP in 1995, an
   increase from only 6% in 1963.

   Exports also have a profound impact on employment in our state. In
   addition to accounting for thousands of manufacturing jobs,
   international trade indirectly provides thousands of jobs in banking,
   insurance, law, accounting, transportation, and distribution.
   Significantly, export-related jobs pay 13% to 18% more on average than
   jobs geared solely to the domestic economy. Between 1963 and 1995,
   export-related jobs increased yearly by 5.5% per annum, over twice as
   fast as the rate of job creation rate in the rest of the economy. In
   1998, one out of every three jobs in Washington State was directly or
   indirectly related to exports. By comparison, in 1963, exports
   accounted for one out of every nine jobs. In the future, international
   trade will continue to grow in importance as worldwide demand among
   developing countries grows and market barriers fall as a result of the
   implementation of bilateral, multilateral and regional trade
   agreements.

   The growth of international trade in Washington State over the last 8
   years, as shown in the following graph, is evidence of the strength and
   capability of the trade services provided in the state.

          Graph illustrating imports, exports and totals 1990-1998

                               Did You Know??

     * Washington State Two-Way Trade reached $104 billion in 1998
     * 43,220 jobs are created in Washington State by pass-through foreign
       imports: cargoes that are landed here and shipped to final users
       elsewhere in North America. Direct jobs are concentrated in import
       handlinglargely, transportation services. Because import-handling
       constitutes a Washington export to other domestic states and
       Canada, it creates indirect jobs in other sectors within the state;
     * Another 117,900 jobs are supported by foreign imports that stay in
       Washington State to be used as inputs to production or as consumer
       goods for final sale here. Most of the jobs supported by imports to
       the state are in wholesale and retail trade. These 117,900 jobs
       exceed the employment base in Tacoma and almost equal the Bellevue
       jobs base
     * Exports support 750,000 jobs in Washington State.
     * When imports and exports are combined, 1 out 3 jobs in Washington
       State are supported by international trade.
     * Pass-through imports rose from $23 billion in 1984 to $42 billion
       in 1998, while in-state imports climbed from $5 billion to $14
       billion in the same period
     * The 1998 Total Gross Business Income was $362,033,663,080
     * The largest single category of trade through Washingtons marine
       ports and airports is not exports produced in this state but
       foreign imports that are landed here and then shipped from
       Washington to purchasers elsewhere in the U.S. and Canada;
     * The most valuable categories of imports in 1998 were industrial
       machinery and computer equipment ($10 billion), electronic and
       electrical equipment ($7 billion), textile and apparel products ($6
       billion), and motor vehicles ($5.8 billion).
     * When both parts of the trade equation are combined, the 25 percent
       share of state jobs that are export-linked and the seven percent of
       jobs that are import-linked generate trade-related employment equal
       to about 32 percent of Washington State jobs.
     * The pass-through import trade plus foreign imports whose final
       destination is Washington account for a total of 161,120 - about
       seven percent of the total employment in the state. Washington
       States role in the import trade - handling volume that is three
       times its share of U.S. population - is comparable to its
       leadership in exports per capita

                             Source:  Foreign Exports and the Washington
   State Economy
                                            Foreign Imports and the
   Washington State Economy


   Fading Marquis Banner showing three lines of text


     Home  What We Do Programs Foreign Contract Representatives   News &
    Events   Where is Washington  Why is Trade Important   Foreign Trade
      Zones Trade Statistics Press Releases Ports  Economic Development
      Council's  Consulates  Info & Resources   Financing Import/Export
    Guide   NASDA Listing   Publications  Washington at a Glance  Intern
     Program Employment Did you know? Sister Cities Contact Us   Access
    Washington  CTED Home   Search   Info Request   Disclaimer & Privacy
                                  Statement

     Web site designed and maintained by Jennifer Williams, e-mail with
                 questions or comments about this web site.
        Copyright © 2001 Washington State Office of Trade & Economic
                                 Development

                        Last modified: July 20, 2001

               Access Washington             [otedlogoblk.gif]
