http://www.ussc.gov/RULES11_01.pdf

   RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE United States Sentencing Commission (As
   amended November 2001) PART I  PURPOSE OF RULES; RULES PART II  ACTION
   BY THE AMENDMENT PROCEDURE COMMISSION Rule 1.1  Application and Purpose
   Rule 2.1  Members Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 995(a)(1) and other For
   purposes of the voting procedures set forth in applicable provisions of
   its organizational statute, these Rules, "member" of the Commission
   shall the United States Sentencing Commission ("the mean a voting
   member and shall not include an Commission") has established these
   rules governing ex-officio, non-voting member. Ex-officio its usual
   operating practices. The Commission, an members may not vote or make or
   second agency within the judicial branch of government, is motions.
   subject to only that provision of the Administrative Procedures Act,
   section 553 of title 5, United States Rule 2.2  Voting Rules for Action
   by the Code, relating to publication in the Federal Register Commission
   and a public hearing procedure, with regard to proposed sentencing
   guidelines or amendments Except as otherwise provided in these rules or
   by thereto. See 28 U.S.C. § 994(x). The Commission law, action by the
   Commission requires the is not subject to a variety of other statutes,
   such as affirmative vote of a majority of the members at a the Federal
   Advisory Committee Act, the Sunshine public meeting at which a quorum
   is present. A Act, and the Freedom of Information Act, typically quorum
   shall consist of a majority of the members applicable to rulemaking
   agencies in the executive then serving. Members shall be deemed
   "present" branch. The Commission nevertheless desires to and may
   participate and vote in meetings from involve interested members of the
   public in its work remote locations by electronic means, including to
   the maximum extent practicable. Accordingly, telephone, satellite, and
   video conference devices. these rules are issued for the purpose of
   more fully informing interested persons of opportunities and
   Promulgation of guidelines, policy statements, procedures for becoming
   aware of and participating official commentary, and amendments thereto
   in the public business of the Commission. These shall require the
   affirmative vote of at least four rules are not intended to create or
   enlarge legal members at a public meeting. See 28 U.S.C. rights for any
   person. § 994(a). Rule 1.2  Rules Amendment Procedure Publication for
   comment of proposed amendments to guidelines, policy statements, or
   official (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), commentary shall
   require the affirmative vote of at amendment of these rules shall
   require the least three members at a public meeting. The affirmative
   vote in a public meeting of a majority decision to instruct staff to
   prepare a retroactivity (and not less than three) of the voting members
   impact analysis for a proposed amendment shall then serving. Any such
   amendment shall be require the affirmative vote of at least three
   adopted only after notice and reasonable members at a public meeting.
   opportunity for public comment. Action on miscellaneous matters may be
   taken (b) The Commission temporarily may suspend any without a meeting
   based on the affirmative vote, rule contained herein and/or adopt a
   supplemental by written or oral communication, of a majority of or
   superseding rule by affirmative vote in a public the members then
   serving. Such matters include meeting of a majority of the voting
   members then the approval of budget requests, legal briefs, staff
   serving. reports, analyses of legislation, administrative and personnel
   issues, notices regarding Commission amendment priorities, technical
   and clerical amendments to these rules, and decisions to hold a
   nonpublic meeting. A motion to reconsider Commission action may be made
   only by a commissioner on the prevailing side of the vote for which
   reconsideration is sought, or who did not vote on the matter. Four
   United States Sentencing Commission votes are necessary to reconsider a
   Commission The Commission may convene a public hearing on vote on any
   question on which a four-vote majority any matter involving the
   promulgation of is required. sentencing guidelines or any other matter
   affecting the Commission's business. A request for PART III  MEETINGS
   AND HEARINGS comment on a proposed matter does not necessarily mean
   that a public hearing will be held Rule 3.1  Meetings on the matter or
   that a public hearing, if scheduled, will pertain to all issues raised
   in the request for The Chair shall call and preside at Commission
   comment. meetings. In the absence of the Chair, the Chair will
   designate a Vice Chair to preside. Notice of a public hearing shall be
   given as soon as practicable. The notice shall include, as Members may
   participate in meetings from remote applicable, information regarding a
   procedure for locations by electronic means, including telephone,
   requesting an opportunity to testify, and the satellite, and video
   conference devices. availability of documents or reports relevant to
   the subject of the hearing. Rule 3.2  Public Meetings The Commission
   may specify the format for The Commission shall meet on at least two
   public hearings, invite witnesses, choose witnesses occasions in each
   calendar quarter to conduct from among those who request the
   opportunity to business. Except as provided in Rule 3.3, meetings
   testify, and require that written testimony be of the Commission with
   outside parties shall be submitted in advance of the hearing. conducted
   in public. The Commission may exclude from such a hearing To the extent
   practicable, the Chair shall issue, any electronic devices that record
   the voice or through the Office of Staff Director, a public notice
   image of any or all witnesses, as well as cameras of any public meeting
   at least seven days prior to of any kind. the date of the meeting. The
   public notice, to the extent practicable, shall indicate the general At
   the request of any witness to turn off any such purpose(s) of the
   meeting and include an agenda electronic device(s) during that person's
   testimony, and any related documents approved for public the Chair of
   the Commission may order, at his or release. her discretion, that use
   of such devices be discontinued during the testimony of that witness.
   At the discretion of the Chair, members of the public may be afforded
   an opportunity to comment Rule 3.5  Written Record of Meetings and on
   any issue on the agenda of a public meeting. Hearings Rule 3.3
   Nonpublic Meetings The Commission shall prepare and maintain written
   minutes of public meetings and make them The Commission may hold
   nonpublic meetings publicly available after their approval by the
   (i.e., meetings closed to the public) for purposes of Commission. The
   Commission shall tape record the following: (1) to transact business of
   the public meetings and make the recordings publicly Commission that is
   not appropriate for a public available after the approval of the
   minutes of such meeting (e.g., discussion and resolution of meeting. No
   such recording shall be copied or personnel and budget issues); (2) to
   receive removed from the Commission's offices. information from, and
   participate in discussions with, Commission staff and any person
   designated The Commission shall maintain a written by an ex-officio
   commissioner as support staff for transcription of public hearings that
   shall be that commissioner; and (3) upon a decision by a publicly
   available for inspection. majority of the members then serving, to
   receive or share information, from or with any other person, PART IV
   GUIDELINE AMENDMENT that is inappropriate for public disclosure (one
   PROCESS example of which would be information from a law enforcement
   agency, the public disclosure of which Rule 4.1  Promulgation of
   Amendments would reveal confidential investigatory techniques or
   jeopardize an ongoing investigation). The Commission may promulgate and
   submit to Congress amendments to the guidelines after the Rule 3.4
   Public Hearings 2 Rules of Practice and Procedure beginning of a
   regular session of Congress and not later than May 1 of that year.
   Amendments shall Rule 4.4  Federal Register Notice of Proposed be
   accompanied by an explanation or statement of Amendments reasons for
   the amendments. Unless otherwise specified, or unless Congress
   legislates to the A vote to publish a proposed amendment to a contrary,
   amendments submitted for review shall guideline, policy statement, or
   official commentary take effect on the first day of November of the
   year in the Federal Register shall be deemed to be a in which
   submitted. 28 U.S.C. § 994(p). request for public comment on the
   proposed At other times, pursuant to special statutory amendment. At
   the same time the Commission enactment, the Commission may promulgate
   votes to publish proposed amendments for amendments to accomplish
   identified congressional comment, it shall request public comment on
   objectives. whether to make any amendments retroactive. Amendments to
   policy statements and commentary The notice of proposed amendments also
   shall may be promulgated and put into effect at any time. provide, to
   the extent appropriate and practicable, However, to the extent
   practicable, the Commission reasons for consideration of amendments and
   a shall endeavor to include amendments to policy summary of or
   reference to publicly available statements and commentary in any
   submission of information that is relevant to the issue(s). In
   guideline amendments to Congress and put them addition, the publication
   notice shall include a into effect on the same November 1 date as any
   deadline for public comment and may include a guideline amendments
   issued in the same year. notice of any scheduled public hearing(s) or
   Generally, promulgated amendments will be given meetings on the
   issue(s). prospective application only. However, in those cases in
   which the Commission considers an In the case of proposed amendments to
   guidelines amendment for retroactive application to previously or
   issues for comment that form the basis for sentenced, imprisoned
   defendants, it shall decide possible guidelines amendments, the
   Commission whether to make the amendment retroactive at the shall
   allow, to the extent practicable, a minimum same meeting at which it
   decides to promulgate the period of public comment of at least 60
   calendar amendment. Prior to final Commission action on days prior to
   final Commission action on the the retroactive application of an
   amendment, the proposed amendments. Commission shall review the
   retroactivity impact analysis prepared pursuant to Rule 2.2, supra.
   Rule 4.5  Public Hearing on Proposed Amendments Rule 4.2  Prison Impact
   of Amendments In the case of "emergency" amendments issued Prior to
   promulgating amendments to the guidelines, pursuant to special
   statutory authorization, the the Commission shall consider the impact
   of any Commission ordinarily will not conduct a public amendment on
   available penal and correctional hearing on the proposed amendments but
   will resources, and on other facilities and services and afford such
   opportunity for written comment as shall make such information
   available to the public. time allows. Rule 4.3  Notice and Comment on
   Proposed Amendments In the case of other amendments to guidelines or
   policy statements issued pursuant to 28 U.S.C. In proposing and
   promulgating guidelines and § 994, the Commission shall conduct a
   public amendments thereto, the Commission shall comply hearing on the
   proposed amendments, unless the with the requirements of section 553 of
   title 5, Commission determines that time does not permit United States
   Code, relating to publication in the a hearing or that a hearing will
   not substantially Federal Register and public hearing procedure. assist
   the amendment process. Notice of the 28 U.S.C. § 994(x). hearing shall
   be given in the Federal Register and by other means designed to inform
   persons likely The Commission may promulgate commentary and to be
   interested in participating in such a hearing. policy statements, and
   amendments thereto, without regard to the provisions of 28 U.S.C. §
   994(x). PART V  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN Nevertheless, the Commission
   will endeavor to provide, to the extent practicable, comparable
   GUIDELINE AMENDMENT PROCESS opportunities for public input on proposed
   policy statements and commentary considered in Rule 5.1  Public Comment
   File conjunction with guideline amendments. 3 United States Sentencing
   Commission The Office of Publishing and Public Affairs shall Two types
   of advisory groups are authorized: receive and maintain public comment
   and public standing and ad hoc. The following groups are hearing
   testimony received by the Commission. standing advisory groups: the
   Practitioners Advisory Group and the Probation Officers "Public
   comment" means (1) any written comment Advisory Group. submitted by an
   outside party, including an agency represented by an ex-officio
   commissioner, Upon creating an advisory group, the Commission pursuant
   to a solicitation by the Commission; and may prescribe such policies
   regarding the conduct (2) any other written submission, from an outside
   of meetings and operation of the group as the party, that the Chair or
   a majority of the members Commission deems necessary or appropriate.
   The then serving has not precluded from being made Commission also may
   delegate to an advisory available to the public. "Public comment" does
   not group the responsibility for developing such include any internal
   communication between and policies. among commissioners, Commission
   staff, and any person designated by an ex-officio commissioner as In
   addition, the Commission expects to solicit support staff for that
   commissioner. input, from time to time, from outside groups
   representing the federal judiciary, prosecutors, Rule 5.2  Notice of
   Priorities defense attorneys, crime victims, and other interested
   groups. The Commission shall publish annually in the Federal Register,
   and make available to the public, a notice of the tentative priorities
   for future Commission inquiry and possible action, including areas for
   possible amendments to guidelines, policy statements, and commentary.
   Any such notice shall include an invitation to, and deadline for, the
   submission of written public comment on the proposed priorities.
   Subsequent to the deadline for comment on the tentative priorities, the
   Commission shall publish in the Federal Register, and make available to
   the public for inspection, a notice of priorities for Commission
   inquiry and possible action. Rule 5.3  Information Relevant to the
   Amendment Process To fulfill Commission priorities and inform
   consideration of potential amendments, the Staff Director shall direct
   the preparation of relevant data, reports, and other information for
   consideration by the Commission. Upon authorization by the Staff
   Director, the Office of Publishing and Public Affairs shall make the
   data, reports, and other information available to the public as soon as
   practicable. Rule 5.4  Advisory Groups Upon authorization of the
   Commission, the Staff Director may facilitate the creation, membership,
   and periodic meeting at the Commission offices and elsewhere, of
   advisory groups of defense attorneys, academics, probation officers,
   judges, prosecutors, and others, to facilitate formal and informal
   input to the Commission. 4 Rules of Practice and Procedure PART VI
   INFORMATION ABOUT THE public hearings, listings of Commission
   priorities COMMISSION and projects, outstanding public comment
   solicitations, recently promulgated amendments, Rule 6.1  Office(s) the
   text of numerous reports and resources available from the Commission,
   and the text of the The offices of the Commission are located in the
   Guidelines Manual and Commission reports. Thurgood Marshall Federal
   Judiciary Building, Suite 2-500, South Lobby, One Columbus Circle,
   N.E., Rule 6.4  Information at Federal Depository Washington, D.C.
   20002-8002. Libraries The office can be reached by telephone between
   Commission publications printed by the 8:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Monday
   through Friday. Government Printing Office, and other selected The main
   telephone number is (202) 502-4500. documents, are available in hard
   copy or The fax number is (202) 502-4699. The e-mail microfiched form
   through the Government address is pubaffairs@ussc.gov. Printing
   Office's Depository Library system. The location of the nearest Federal
   Depository Library Rule 6.2  Availability of Materials for Public can
   be determined in several ways: (1) by Inspection; Office of Publishing
   and Public requesting a free copy of the Directory of Affairs
   Depository Libraries from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Library
   Programs Services, Stop: The Office of Publishing and Public Affairs is
   the SLLD, Washington, DC 20401; (2) by asking at repository of all
   materials that are available to the any local library for the address
   of the nearest public. Federal Depository Library; or (3) by using the
   Internet at Generally, the Office of Publishing and Public
   http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/locators/findli Affairs will maintain
   for public inspection the bs/index.html. following: (1) agendas and
   schedules for Commission public meetings and public hearings; Rule 6.5
   Access to Commission Data  (2) approved minutes of Commission public
   Research Consortium meetings; (3) transcripts of public hearings; (4)
   public comment as defined in Rule 5.1; (5) data, The Commission
   provides its various databases, reports, and other information made
   available excluding individual identifiers, to the University of
   pursuant to Rule 5.3; and (6) with respect to Michigan's
   Inter-University Consortium for nonpublic meetings described in Rule
   3.3(3), a list Political and Social Research (ICPSR). of outside
   parties attending the meeting, a list of Researchers interested in
   studying federal issues upon which the Commission was briefed,
   sentencing practices through quantitative methods and, unless otherwise
   directed by the Chair or a can access Commission sentencing data
   through majority of the members then serving, copies of this means.
   Contact ICPSR, P.O. Box 1248, Ann written materials submitted by
   outside parties. Arbor, MI 48106; or call 1-800-999-0960; or use the
   following Internet address: The Office of Publishing and Public Affairs
   also http://www.ICPSR.umich.edu/NACJD/archive.html. will make available
   upon request: (1) information Editorial Note: These rules were
   originally adopted by the available pursuant to the Commission's policy
   on Commission on July 11,1997, and revised November 14, 2001. public
   access to Commission data; and (2) A Guide to Publications & Resources
   that lists all publications and datasets available from the Commission.
   Rule 6.3  Internet Site The Commission maintains and updates
   information and documents on an Internet web site. The web site is
   found at http://www.ussc.gov. This resource includes general
   information, such as background information about the Commission and
   Commissioners, notices for scheduled meetings and hearings, minutes of
   recent meetings, transcripts of 5
