http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/MediaResources/Wildfires/



          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                             News



   David Steitz, Headquarters
   Phone: 202/358-1730
   David.Steitz@hq.nasa.gov

   Lynn Chandler, Goddard Space Flight Center
   Phone: 301/286-2806
   Lynn.Chandler.1@gsfc.nasa.gov

   Lee Tune, University of Maryland
   Phone: 301/405-4679
   ltune@accmail.umd.edu

   RELEASE NO. 01-83

   August 20, 2001

   NASA Satellite, University Of Maryland and U.S. Forest Service Provide
   Rapid Response to Wildfires

   U.S. firefighters and land managers are using the most modern
   NASA-satellite data to combat wildfires. NASA’s Terra satellite
   provides a view of fires across the entire United States, which helps
   fire experts manage fires more effectively, both during and after
   wildfire events. The effort is a collaboration between NASA, NOAA, the
   University of Maryland and the USDA Forest Service.

   The Terra satellite beams daily images of western U.S. wildfires to
   NASA within a few hours of the time that it passes over the region.
   These images, showing the locations of active fires, are transmitted to
   the Forest Service. When the Forest Service’s own direct broadcast
   receiving stations are completed in October, this will reduce the
   transmission time to minutes. Images from Terra’s Moderate-resolution
   Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instrument will become a regular part
   of the Forest Service’s fire monitoring toolkit.

   “NASA remains deeply committed to working cooperatively with its sister
   agencies to monitor and combat wildfires across the nation. Our
   investment in the Terra Earth Observing System is starting to pay
   tremendous dividends to the American taxpayer,” said Ghassem Asrar,
   NASA’s Associate Administrator for the Office of Earth Science.

   In order to use MODIS data to tackle forest fires, a complex
   communications network is maintained between NASA, the University of
   Maryland and the Forest Service. The three institutions are integrated
   under the Rapid Response Project. Rob Sohlberg at the University of
   Maryland’s Department of Geography in College Park, Md., leads the
   Rapid Response Project with Jacques Descloitres at NASA’s Goddard Space
   Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. This program was created in response to
   the 2000 fire season, with its extensive wildfires in Idaho and
   Montana.

   By October 2001, the Forest Service will have the capability to produce
   their own MODIS fire images within minutes of a Terra overpass. “The
   Active Fire Maps offer the potential for understanding the ’big
   picture’ when working on resource allocations decisions,” said Alice
   Forbes, Deputy Director for Forest Service Fire and Aviation Operations
   at the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC). “The maps can also help
   the public understand where the fires are located, and give them a look
   at the burned areas after fire season.”

   The University and NASA developed all of the needed software, which
   will be installed at the Forest Service’s data receiving station. The
   Forest Service developed corresponding software that creates the Active
   Fire Maps from the Terra data using standard mapping techniques.

   The Forest Service’s Remote Sensing Applications Center (RSAC) in Salt
   Lake City, Utah, provides development, support and application of
   remote sensing technologies and techniques. Currently, the Forest
   Service is building a MODIS processing center in Salt Lake City to
   generate near-real-time images of western wildfires. However, the
   Forest Service will still receive imagery of the eastern U.S. from the
   University and NASA.

   Keith Lannom, the Operations Program Leader at RSAC, stated, “The
   University of Maryland sends MODIS images and active fire location
   information daily to RSAC staff who are overlaying state boundaries and
   topographical features on the images to best determine where fires are
   occurring. These maps show current active fire areas in near real time
   on the Internet.”

   The maps show daily active fires, and areas that were burned during
   previous days. These maps will be used for strategic asset allocation
   when fighting wildfires. Advanced products to assist the Burned-Area
   Emergency Rehabilitation (BAER) teams are also being developed from
   Terra data. The BAER team consists of soil scientists, hydrologists,
   wildlife specialists and other scientists. They use burn severity
   maps-derived from satellite and ground measurements-to help them take
   measures that will prevent further erosion, soil loss and adverse
   impacts to water quality. It is anticipated that Terra data will
   provide a quick look, which can then be refined on the ground. The maps
   will also help scientists identify critical wildlife habitat affected
   by the fire and facilitate reforesting an area.

   Wei Min Hao, the Project Leader of the Fire Chemistry Project at the
   Forest Service’s Fire Science Laboratory in Montana, is developing a
   MODIS aerosol product to track smoke dispersed by wildfires, and to
   determine the impact that it has on regional air quality. Hao said,
   “During fires where there are large amounts of smoke, reconnaissance
   planes that normally map fires can’t fly into an area, but MODIS can
   provide those pictures from space.” Dr. Yoram Kaufman from NASA is
   working with Dr. Hao on these products.

   The Terra spacecraft is part of NASA’s Earth Science Enterprise, a
   long-term research effort being conducted to determine how
   human-induced and natural changes affect our global environment.

   The MODIS Land Rapid Response System Web site can be found at:
   http://rapidfire.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   The MODIS Rapid Response Fire Maps can be accessed through the National
   Interagency Fire Center Web site (click on RSAC Fire Maps link) at:
   http://www.nifc.gov/firemaps.html
   For more information about NASA’s fire research, read: NASA
   Demonstrates New Technology for Monitoring Fires from Space and NASA
   Satellite Data Used Operationally to Help Combat Fires in the West

   August 11, 2001 (1.8 MB JPEG)

   August 13, 2001 (1.8 MB JPEG)

   August 15, 2001 (1.1 MB JPEG)

   August 18, 2001 (1.7 MB JPEG)

   Washington · August 20, 2001 (1.9 MB JPEG)
   California · August 20, 2001 (1.5 MB JPEG)

   These true-color images over the Pacific Northwest were acquired by
   MODIS on the dates of Aug. 11, 13, 15, and 18, 2001, respectively. The
   red boxes reveal the locations and extent of active wildfires across
   the region. The images span the region from Northern California and
   Western Nevado northward across Oregon, Washington, and parts of
   Western Idaho. According to NIFC reports, there are 15 large wildfires
   currently burning in the Pacific Northwest. This region is the current
   hotspot, receiving most of the nation’s current deployment of
   firefighting and support personnel to battle the blazes.

   Images courtesy Jacques Descloitres, MODIS Land Rapid Response Team at
   NASA GSFC

   California & Nevada False-color Time Series:
   August 13, 2001 (8.7 MB TIFF)
   August 14, 2001 (6.0 MB TIFF)
   August 16, 2001 (7.4 MB TIFF)

   August 17, 2001 (8.5 MB TIFF)

   August 18, 2001 (8.7 MB TIFF)

   The Upper Willow fire broke out on August 17, 2001, near the border
   between Oregon and Nevada. Over the course of 24 hours the fire burned
   40,000 acres, as shown by the two images above. Using a combination of
   visible and near infrared light the images show smoke (blue), burn scar
   (black), vegetation (green), and barren land (yellow/gray). The images
   linked above show more of the fires burning in Northern California and
   Nevada from August 13 to August 18, 2001. These include the Quartz,
   Trough, and Blue Complex fires.

   Images courtesy Rob Sohlberg, UMD Global Land Cover Facility, and Alex
   Kekesi, NASA GSFC Scientific Visualization Studio.

   Animations:
   Blue Complex (5.3 MB Quicktime)
   California Smoke (8.7 MB Quicktime)
   California Fires (8.6 MB Quicktime)
   Siberia Fires (6.3 MB Quicktime)

   Animations courtesy Jacques Descloitres, MODIS Land Rapid Response Team
   at NASA GSFC, Rob Sohlberg, UMD Global Land Cover Facility, and Alex
   Kekesi, NASA GSFC Scientific Visualization Studio.


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
