http://www.dfi.wa.gov/sd/teens.htm



      Who Wants to be a Millionaire?



   If you do, read on.  It's not going to happen overnight, but it won't happen
   at all if you don't have an understanding of the basics of saving and
   investing. The fact that you've come this far shows you're interested, so why
   not take a look at our financial pages while you're here?

            [bd09295_.gif]          Unless, of course, you're expecting a call
   from Regis.





      So what does it mean to be financially literate?  It means you know how
      to design a personal financial plan that will help you put aside a
      little bit today for the things you'll want tomorrow.  It means you
      know how financial markets work, and how you can select from the
      various savings and investment options available to you.

      We want to show you the importance and benefits of beginning a saving
      and investing program right now - not next week, or next year.


   So what's a Financial Plan and why in the world do you need one?

   Well, let's see...

   You just got paid and you've got about $250 in your pocket.  Your gas
   tank is almost empty, you wanna buy the new Dave Matthews Band CD,
   Blink 182 is coming to town and your girlfriend says she'll just die if
   you don't take her.  Or maybe you're trying to figure out how you're
   going to afford your new soccer boots, car insurance, bindings for your
   board, and that dreamy tulle and taffeta dress and  up-do that you
   can't go to prom without.  Either way, you have a whole lot of "wants"
   (things you can live without, but really are the reason you may have
   been motivated to get a job in the first place) and quite a few "needs"
   that you have to take care of.

   So how do you get to a place where you can pay your bills, have some
   cash in your pocket, and save some each month?  One answer - you need a
   plan. Before you begin any program of saving and investing, you need to
   have a financial plan. A financial plan is simply a road map that will
   direct you to where you want to end up, financially speaking.
   Depending upon your own personal style, it can be complicated and very
   detailed, or short and sweet. Whatever your style, the links below will
   help you get started on developing your own financial plan, the first
   step to assessing your financial position.


     Setting Goals

     Estimate Your Income

     Personal Balance Sheet

     Record Your Expenses


Financial Calculators

   Savings Calculator - Check out this calculator and see how you can
   reach your goals through saving and investing.This calculator doesn't
   factor in taxes or inflation.

   Savings and Investing Calculator - This calculator factors in taxes and
   inflation.

   Retirement Calculator - Retirement may seem along way away, but the
   earlier you start with a savings and investing plan for your
   retirement, the more you will have when you need it. It is called
   "Compounding" .
