http://www.comda.ca.gov/dcaboard.pdf

   DENTAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA The fourteen-member Dental Board of
   California (Board) is responsible for regulating the practice of
   approximately 74,400 dental health professionals, which includes the
   license of doctors of dental surgery (DDS) and the following 44,500
   licensed dental auxiliaries: * Registered Dental Hygienists (RDH) *
   Registered Dental Hygienists in Extended Functions (RDHEF) * Registered
   Dental Hygienists in Alternative Practice (RDHAP) * Registered Dental
   Assistants (RDA) * Registered Dental Assistants in Extended Functions
   (RDAEF) 1. Continue to Regulate the Practice of Dentistry The
   Department concurs with the JLSRC's recommendation to continue
   regulation of the practice of dentistry. The practice of dentistry
   affects the health and safety of Californians and requires a high level
   of skill. 2. Review Dentists' Control Over the Board's Regulation of
   the Profession The Department believes the Board does exercise too much
   control over the licensing, regulation, and practices of dental
   auxiliaries. There is a long history to the Board's restrictive actions
   toward the practices of dental auxiliaries. The Department recommends
   the scope of practice for dental auxiliaries (authorized duties) be
   moved from regulations into statute. While some authorized duties
   should be designated as under the direct supervision of a dentist,
   others should be clearly delegated as categories of practice to the
   auxiliaries (see Recommendation 2 for COMDA). 3. Review Dentists
   Performing Procedures Beyond Their Scope of Practice The Department
   concurs with the JLSRC's recommendation that oral and maxillofacial
   licensees need to be informed about the current statutory limitations
   on the services permitted under the authority of a dentist license; and
   that violations of those limitations, such as advertising certain
   cosmetic surgery services that are not authorized by a dentist license,
   should be actively investigated and disciplined. In addition, the
   Department recommends that the next occupational analysis of dentistry
   include a survey of the practices of oral and maxillofacial licensees
   and a report to the JLSRC on the findings upon completion of that
   analysis. 4. Revise Requirements for Dental Auxiliary Educational
   Programs The Department concurs with the JLSRC's preliminary
   recommendation that the current lack of availability of RDHAP
   educational programs be reviewed. The Department of Consumer Affairs
   Sunset Review Report Dental Board of California Department recommends
   that current regulatory limitations that require these programs to be
   affiliated with a dental school be revised so that programs, like the
   one involved in the Heath Manpower Pilot Project, qualify to provide
   the required training for RDHAP licensure. 5. Require Dentists to
   Provide Mercury Warning Information to Patients Requiring Cavity
   Fillings The Department concurs with the JLSRC's preliminary
   recommendation that dentists be required to provide "The Dental
   Materials Fact Sheet" that discusses possible health risks related to
   mercury to all patients prior to the performance of any dental
   restoration that could involve the use of dental amalgam. Dentists
   should also be required to make the fact sheet available in their
   offices in a prominent location. In fact, when it was brought to the
   Department's attention that the Board had not produced the fact sheet,
   which was required in statute by SB 934 (Watson, Chapter 801, Statutes
   of 1992), the Department asked the Board to meet the mandated
   requirement. As of this date, an updated fact sheet is not available.
   6. Establish Broader Scope of Practice for Dental Auxiliaries The
   Department recommends the JLSRC require that a system be established
   for easy determination of appropriate scope and standards of practice
   for dental auxiliaries which allows them to adopt and utilize new
   equipment and emerging technologies as they arise. 7. Review
   Educational Requirements on Infection Control, Cardiopulmonary
   Resuscitation, and Dental Jurisprudence The Department concurs with the
   JLSRC's recommendation that educational requirements be implemented for
   infection control and CPR on an ongoing basis; and dental jurisprudence
   be required on a one-time basis for licensed dental assistants and
   licensed dental hygienists. 8. Establish Enforcement Monitor to Improve
   Disciplinary Process The Department recommends that the JLSRC require
   the Director to appoint an Enforcement Program Monitor, no later than
   January 31, 2002, whose duties would include monitoring and evaluating
   the dental disciplinary system and reporting his/her findings, as
   specified, to the Department and the Legislature. The Enforcement
   Program Monitor should be funded through the State Dentistry Fund. 2
