http://www.clg21.ca.gov/biographies.html

     [bios_banner.gif]

   [USEMAP:return.gif]
                      Susan Golding, Chair
                      Ruben Barrales, Vice-Chair
                      Jacqueline Bacharach
                      Marian Bergeson
                      Herbert Boeckmann, II
                      Patricia Clarke
                      Cody Cluff
                      Michael G. Colantuono
                      Robert Francis Hunt
                      Nicholas C. Petris
                      C. Timothy Raney
                      Carolyn Ratto
                      William D. Ross
                      John J. Schatz
                      Larry Zarian

   CHAIR

   Susan Golding of San Diego, has been mayor of the City of San Diego
   since 1992. She was named one of the nation's 25 "most dynamic mayors"
   by Newsweek Magazine, described as a progressive mayor who is
   "resurrecting urban America." Golding served as a member and chaired
   Governor Wilson's Military Base Reuse Task Force from 1993 to 1994.
   Prior to running for Mayor, Golding served for eight years on the San
   Diego County Board of Supervisors. She also served as Deputy Secretary
   of the Business, Transportation and Housing Agency for the State of
   California under Governor George Deukmejian and as a member of the San
   Diego City Council. Before entering public service, she was a community
   newspaper publisher and college instructor. Golding earned a bachelor's
   degree in government and international relations from Carleton College,
   a master's degree from Columbia University and taught as a Ph.D. fellow
   at Emory University. She was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree
   from the California Western School of Law. Golding was appointed to the
   Commission by Governor Pete Wilson.

   VICE-CHAIR

   Ruben Barrales of Redwood City, is president of Joint Venture Silicon
   Valley, a position he has held since 1998. Prior to that, he served as
   San Mateo County Supervisor since 1992. He was also the Republican
   nominee for California State Controller in 1998. Barrales was
   recognized for his leadership in forming a unique coalition for local
   jurisdiction which brought about an 80% reduction in violent crime in
   East Palo Alto, which in 1992 had been named the Murder Capitol of the
   United States. He has also served as a leader in developing the
   Garfield Charter School in the predominantly Latino neighborhood of
   East Redwood City. Barrales has served as the County's representative
   on the Local Agency Formation Commission and the Bay Conservation and
   Development Commission. He is a member of the board of directors of the
   Redwood City Chamber of Commerce, and in 1996 was named "One of the 100
   Most Influential Hispanics in the United States." He earned a joint
   bachelor's degree in political science and administrative studies from
   the University of California, Riverside in 1984. Barrales was appointed
   to the Commission by Governor Pete Wilson. For comments or suggestions,
   contact Ruben Barreles at r_barrales@jointventure.org.

   MEMBERS

   Jacqueline "Jacki" Bacharach of Rancho Palos Verdes, has served as
   Mayor, council member, and a member of the Los Angeles County
   Transportation Commission. She is founding chair of the Southern
   California Rideshare program and serves as a member of the Senate
   Advisory Commission on Cost Control in State Government. Previously,
   Bacharach was Commissioner for the National Commission on Intermodal
   Transportation, Chair of the Southern California Regional Rail
   Authority, a member of the Alameda Corridor Transportation Authority, a
   member of the Caltrans Advisory Committee on California High-Speed
   Rail, chair of the League of California Cities Transportation and
   Public Works Committee, President of the South Bay Cities Association,
   and President of the League of Women Voters for the Palos Verdes
   Peninsula. She has received numerous public service awards and honors
   and has been the owner of the consulting firm of Jacki Bacharach and
   Associates since 1993. She earned a bachelor's degree in Political
   Science from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1966.
   Bacharach was appointed to the Commission by the Senate Rules
   Committee. For comments or suggestions, contact Jacki Bacharach at
   jackibacharach@compuserve.com.

   Marian Bergeson of Newport Beach, served as Secretary of Child
   Development and Education for Governor Pete Wilson from 1996-1999. She
   is also a member of the State Board of Education. Previously, she
   served on the Orange County Board of Supervisors from 1994 to 1996, and
   was a state senator from 1984 to 1994 where she chaired the Senate
   Local Government Committee. She also served as a state assemblywoman
   from 1978 to 1984 and on the Orange County Transportation Authority as
   well as the Orange County Fire Authority. Bergeson began her career in
   public service as an elementary school teacher in Santa Monica in the
   1950s. She was elected to the Newport Mesa Unified School Board in 1965
   and was elected president of the California School Boards Association
   in 1975. She earned a bachelor's degree in education from Brigham Young
   University in 1949 and was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree
   from Pepperdine University in 1993. Bergeson was appointed to the
   Commission by Governor Pete Wilson. For comments or suggestions,
   contact Marian Bergeson at mbergeson@home.net.

   Herbert "Bert" Boeckmann, II of Northridge, is the owner and president
   of Galpin Motors, Inc., an organization with which he has been
   affiliated since 1953. He is currently a member of the Los Angeles
   Police Commission, and previously served on Mayor Richard Riordan's
   Select Blue Ribbon Committee on Budget and Finance, the Los Angeles
   County Local Agency Formation Commission, and the Municipal Improvement
   Corporation of Los Angeles. He is also a former member of the
   California New Motor Vehicle Board. He has received the Nelle Reagan
   Award for Community Service, the Free Enterprise Award, the Fernando
   Award, the American Patriot Award, the Distinguished Service Citation
   and Distinguished Service Medal of the Los Angeles Police Department,
   the March of Dimes Humanitarian Award, the Child Help's Love of
   Children Award, and the Ellis Island Medal of Honor. In 1990, the Boys
   and Girls Club of San Fernando celebrated "Bert Boeckmann Day" in honor
   of the years of support that Bert has contributed to society. Boeckmann
   was also recognized by the Horatio Alger Association as one of the 10
   most outstanding individuals in the nation in personifying the
   principles and values of hard work, honesty, and selflessness. He
   attended the University of Southern California. He was honored with an
   honorary juris doctorate from Pepperdine University in 1987. Boeckmann
   was appointed to the Commission by Governor Pete Wilson.

   Patricia "Trish" Clarke of Anderson, has been a Shasta County
   Supervisor since 1991 and was recently re-elected for a third four-year
   term. She is the current chair of the board, and also served in that
   capacity in 1993. She also serves as chair of the executive board of
   the California Association of Local Area Formation Commissions
   (CALAFCo) and Shasta County LAFCO. From 1985 to 1990, she was a
   planning commissioner, city council member, and served as mayor of the
   City of Anderson for one year. She also served as the chair of the
   Anderson Fire Protection District. Clarke is a member of many civic and
   non-profit organizations, including California Women in Timber, Shasta
   County Cattlewomen, Soroptimist International, and the Anderson Women's
   Improvement Club. She is also a current member and past president of
   the Anderson Chamber of Commerce and serves on the Shasta Alliance for
   Resources & Environment (SHARE) Steering Committee. Clarke was
   appointed to the Commission by Governor Pete Wilson. For comments or
   suggestions, contact Patricia Clarke at suptrish@c-zone.net.

   Cody Cluff of Covina, is president of the Entertainment Industry
   Development Corporation, a self-sustaining, public-private partnership
   between the City and County of Los Angeles, four contract cities, and
   the entertainment industry. He served as Governor Wilson's appointee on
   the South Coast Air Quality Management District Board. He also served
   as Mayor Richard Riordan's liaison to the entertainment industry and
   director of business retention for the Economic Development Corporation
   of Los Angeles County. Cluff currently serves on the boards of the San
   Gabriel Valley Commerce and Cities Consortium, Hollywood Chamber of
   Commerce, Southern California Council on Environment and Development,
   Los Angeles Sports and Entertainment Commission, Boy Scouts of America
   and University of Southern California's Entertainment Technology
   Center. He earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from
   the California State University, Los Angeles in 1984. He has been a
   certified public accountant since 1986. Cluff was appointed to the
   Commission by Governor Pete Wilson.

   Michael G. Colantuono of Los Angeles, is a partner in Richards, Watson
   & Gershon, a municipal law firm with offices in San Francisco, Los
   Angeles, and Orange County which serves 31 cities, more than 20
   redevelopment agencies and many other public agencies throughout
   California. Colantuono is a City Attorney for the Cities of Barstow,
   Cudahy and La Habra Heights and serves as General Counsel to the Big
   Bear City Community Services District, an independent special district
   serving the unincorporated areas of the East Big Bear Valley in the San
   Bernardino Mountains. He is among the state's experts on municipal
   finance and has played a leading role in the local government response
   to Propositions 62 and 218. Colantuono graduated magna cum laude from
   Harvard College in 1983 with a degree in government and received his
   law degree from the Boalt Hall School of Law of the University of
   California in 1988. Colantuono was appointed to the Commission by the
   Assembly Rules Committee. For comments or suggestions, contact Michael
   Colantuono at mcolantuono@rwglaw.com.

   Robert Francis Hunt of Los Angeles, is an attorney with the Service
   Employees International Union (SEIU), Local 347. He served as a
   business representative and organizer for Local 347 from 1978-1992.
   Previously, he was an organizer for the Citizen's Action League from
   1976-1978. Hunt has been a member of the California State Bar
   Association since 1991, and is a member of both the Los Angeles County
   Bar Association and the American Bar Association. He earned his
   bachelor's degree in political science from Rutgers University in 1974,
   attended graduate school at Duke University from 1974 to 1975, and
   earned a Juris Doctorate from Loyola Law School in 1991. Hunt was
   appointed to the Commission by the Senate Rules Committee.

   Nicholas C. Petris of Oakland, is a retired legislator and a retired
   attorney. He was a self-employed attorney from 1950 to 1993. He served
   in the State Assembly from 1959 to 1966 and the State Senate 1967-1996.
   Petris was a member of the Alameda County and California State Bar
   Associations from 1950 to 1998. He is also a member of the Hellenic
   American Professional Association. Petris earned a bachelor's degree
   from the University of California, Berkeley in 1943 and an LLB from
   Stanford University in 1949. Petris was appointed to the Commission by
   the Senate Rules Committee.

   C. Timothy Raney of Citrus Heights, currently serves as a councilmember
   for the City of Citrus Heights, incorporated in 1997. As a
   councilmember, Raney has been actively involved in the formation of the
   new city government and in the revenue neutrality negotiations with the
   County of Sacramento. Raney currently serves as a project manager and
   land use planner for EIP Associates. Previously, he served as a planner
   for the City of Sacramento and has worked for a local development
   company. Raney is a member of the Citrus Heights Chamber of Commerce
   and the American Institute of Certified Planners. He earned a
   bachelor's degree in agricultural and managerial economics from the
   University of California, Davis in 1988. Raney was appointed to the
   Commission by Governor Pete Wilson. For comments and suggestions,
   contact Tim Raney at timraney@midtown.net.

   Carolyn Ratto of Turlock, has been a Turlock City councilwoman since
   1990 and Mayor Pro Tem since 1996. She serves as the first vice
   president and president for the League of California Cities (LCC).
   During her tenure with the LCC, she has served on and chaired various
   committees dealing with legislation, revenue and taxation, and
   strategic planning. Additionally, she serves as vice chair of the
   National League of Cities Advisory Council and the California City,
   County, and School Board Partnership. She is a former elementary school
   teacher and currently serves as an office manager for her husband's
   dental practice. Ratto earned a bachelor's degree in English from Holy
   Names College in Oakland in 1972. Ratto was appointed to the Commission
   by Governor Pete Wilson.

   William D. Ross of Palo Alto, has been President of the Law Offices of
   William D. Ross since 1996. He formerly shared the role of President
   and attorney at Ross & Scott, from 1984-1995. Before that, Ross worked
   as an attorney at the Law Offices of Rogers & Wells. He was a Deputy
   for the Office of the County Counsel in Los Angeles from 1976-1981.
   Ross was a member of the City of Pasadena Planning Commission from
   1981-1989, serving as Chairman from 1986-1988. He has served on
   advisory committees to the Senate Local Government Committee on
   revisions to the Subdivision Map Act (1986) and the Fire Protection
   District Law 1987. He has been a member of several local government and
   land use sections of the Los Angeles County and American Bar
   Association, while consistently representing local government (cities,
   counties, and special districts) and real estate development
   entitlements on matters of governmental organization and land use. He
   earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in History from Stanford University in
   1970 and a Juris Doctorate from the University of Santa Clara in 1974.
   Ross was appointed to the Commission by the Assembly Rules Committee.

   John J. Schatz of Laguna Niguel, has been General Manager/General
   Counsel of the Santa Margarita Water District since 1994. He was
   General Manager for the Jurupa Community Services District between 1984
   and 1994. Schatz has been a member of the State Bar since 1989. He has
   served on the Local Agency Formation Commission of Orange
   County-Special District Advisory Committee since 1996. He is a member
   of the Board of Directors for both the San Juan Basin Authority and the
   South East Regional Reclamation Authority. He has been a member of the
   Association of California Water Agencies since 1985. He earned a
   Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from the
   University of Redlands and a Juris Doctorate from Western State
   University College of Law in 1987. Schatz was appointed to the
   Commission by the Assembly Rules Committee.

   Larry Zarian of Glendale, has been a Glendale city councilman since
   1983. He served as Mayor for four one-year terms. He has also served as
   a member and former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation
   Authority since 1995. He has hosted a radio talk show on KIEV radio
   since 1984. Zarian has served as Governor Wilson's appointee to the
   California Water Commission since 1997, and served on the Los Angeles
   Regional Water Quality Control Board from 1987 to 1997. He was
   appointed by President Ronald Reagan to and served as vice-chairman of
   the National Highway Safety Commission. Zarian has also served as
   president of the Public Service Commission, and is a former member and
   vice president of the California Junior Chamber of Commerce. He is a
   former chairman of the Glendale Housing Authority, Glendale Development
   Agency, and Los Angeles Economic Development Authority. He is also a
   former member of the Glendale Coordinating Council, the Boy Scouts of
   America, the Glendale Chamber of Commerce and the Glendale Kiwanis.
   Zarian was appointed to the Commission by Governor Pete Wilson.
