http://www.leadership.opm.gov/np53.html

   Go to OPM Homepage Skip navigation and go to content Great Leaders for
                                                        Great Government

   Search Back to Homepage Schedule Course Registration Agency Partners
   Contact Us Site Map Help

   General Information
   Courses Offered
   Knowledge Links
   Participant Login
   Privacy Policy
   Hot Links
   Receive a Course Catalog
   Download Course Catalogs in pdf format
   Stay current on new courses.
   Sign up Now!


          National Policy Curriculum
          animated star Key Results
          animated star Leadership Competencies
          animated star Who Should Attend
          animated star Schedule and Cost
                        Develop a personalized leadership development plan

Executive Forum on Current Issues

   This forum is an opportunity to examine thoroughly a wide range of
   current issues that are influencing immediate and long-term executive
   responsibilities. Many of our graduates have requested the opportunity
   to return for an executive-level survey course on domestic and foreign
   policy issues of interest to mid- and senior-level Federal managers and
   executives. The first week of the forum focuses on domestic policy
   issues such as education, taxes, social security, crime and the
   economy. The second week concentrates on foreign policy and national
   security issues. Participants may enroll in either or both. There is a
   discount for those attending both weeks.

   Participants thoroughly examine such topics as:
     * eGov
     * foreign policy
     * national security
     * stemming the flow of drugs
     * countering terrorism
     * the global economy
     * education
     * alternative dispute resolution
     * social security
     * the influence of the press
     * changes in accountability for the SES
     * human capital

                        Leadership Competencies emphasized in this seminar


             Accountability
             Continual Learning
             Vision
             External Awareness
             Decisiveness

Key Results

     * Implement relevant policies and courses more effectively
     * Enhance the organization's performance
     * Gain a corporate perspective on current government policies
     * Relate policy initiatives to organizational issues
     * Develop a global view of the Federal Government's roles and
       responsibilities
     * Increase understanding of the executive environment

Who Should Attend

   Key senior program staff and experienced managers. Graduates of the
   Executive Development Seminar are especially encouraged to attend.

                       Schedule and Cost Register Now

                          Offered at Western Management Development Center

   PDF

       Download the Executive Forum on Current Issues information in Portable
       Document Format (PDF). (304KB)

                        Download Adobe Acrobat Reader
     PDF files require Adobe's free Acrobat Reader program or plug-in to
                                view. (5.6MB)


                                 Top of Page


   Looking for courses at a specific Center? Select Center logo or link
   below.



   The Federal Executive Institute Western Management Development Center
   Eastern Management Development Center

   Federal Executive Institute
   in Charlottesville, VA
                              Western Management
                              Development Center
                              in Denver, CO
                                                Eastern Management
                                                Development Center
                                                in Shepherdstown, WV

               More Information? 1-888-676-9632
   Home | Contact Us | Site Map | Help | Course Registration
   General Information | Courses Offered | Knowledge Links
   Participant Login

   Last Updated: Tuesday, September 4, 2001
