http://education.nasa.gov/calendarall.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   NASA Education Calendar
     * The NASA Education Calendar - is your cyber-guide to following
       current and future NASA Education activities and events. Learn when
       and where NASA's Education Division will be participating in
       National Education Conferences. Educators and students can keep
       track of when applications are due for NASA Education programs,
       workshops, internships, grants, fellowships, and other related
       opportunities.

     * NASA Television - Watch a Space Shuttle launch, learn about the
       latest Hubble Space Telescope discovery, track a hurricane, or sit
       in on a wind tunnel test! This is a resource designed to provide
       real-time coverage of Agency activities and missions as well as
       providing resource video to the news media, and educational
       programming to teachers, students and the general public.
     * NASA's Education File - Where do comets come from? What is
       Microgravity ? How does the International Space Station produce
       electricity? Why do airplanes fly? Check out some of the
       educational programming available on NASA TV for answers to these
       and other perplexing questions. NASA's Education File segment is
       broadcast weekdays at 2-3 p.m. (Eastern Standard or Daylight Time),
       with replays at 5-6 p.m., 8-9 p.m., 11 p.m.-12 a.m., and 2-3 a.m.
       the next morning.
     * NASA CONNECT - is a series of 30-minute instructional programs that
       are free, interactive, closed-captioned, and standards-based. Each
       program is accompanied by a lesson guide, a classroom activity, and
       a web-based component and uses NASA projects, facilities, and
       researchers to integrate and enhance the teaching of mathematics,
       science, geography, and technology in grades 5-8. Programs air on
       PBS, can be down linked from satellite, are available from NASA
       ERC's, and can be purchased from NASA CORE. Visit the NASA CONNECT
       website to obtain satellite coordinates and to find out when the
       programs air in your locality.
     * The NASA "Why?" Files Series - NASA is a standards-based,
       technology focused, closed-captioned, distance learning initiative
       designed to integrate and enhance the teaching of math, science,
       geography, and technology in grades 3-5. The four, 60 minute
       programs in the series use scientific inquiry, including the
       scientific method and science processing skills, problem-based
       learning, and NASA to introduce students to the excitement and
       exploration of real-world mathematics, science, geography, and
       technology. Programs air on PBS, can be down linked from satellite,
       are available from NASA ERC's, and can be purchased from NASA CORE.
       Visit the NASA "Why?" Files web site to obtain the satellite
       coordinates and to find out when the programs air in your locality.
     * NASA Quest - features interactive projects that allow students and
       teachers the opportunity to communicate with NASA scientists and
       researchers and experience the excitement of science as it is
       happening. Check the What's Happening at Quest area for a schedule
       of their on-line events and special programs.
     * The Space Calendar - maintained by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
       provides information about space-related activities and
       anniversaries for the coming year.

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
        NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Center Education Web Sites
