http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/1Radiationandyou_doc.pdf

   Radiation and You - Outline - Middle School Presentation 1.
   INTRODUCTION QUESTIONS HANDOUT radiation safety specialist at LLNL will
   talk about radiation & radioactivity give you some "hands-on"
   experience clear up common misconceptions 2. RADIOACTIVITY AND
   RADIATION - what is radioactivity? why are some atoms radioactive? what
   is radiation? 2a. ALPHA RANGE - FIESTA WARE what are some types of
   radiation? 2b. BETA RANGE - FIESTA WARE how does radiation interact
   with matter? 3. SOURCES OF RADIATION - have you ever been exposed to
   radiation? natural background 3a. CLICKS ON GM or µR meter medical 3b.
   Do X-RAYS MAKE YOU Radioactive? miscellaneous (consumer, nuclear power)
   4. EFFECTS OF EXPOSURE TO RADIATION - what does radiation do to you?
   what are the effects of exposure? acute effects 4a. HULK COMIC BOOD
   risks of CA 5. USES OF RADIATION - can you give me an example of how
   radiation is used? medicine, research, industry use in consumer
   products 5a. WHICH ARE RADIOACTIVE? 6. WORKING SAFELY WITH RADIATION -
   how do we work safely with radiation? precautions geared to how much &
   what type radiation vs. contamination design of buildings protective
   clothing 6a. ANTI-C/BANANA demonstration dosimeters 6b. TLDs - HOT
   PLATE demonstration 7. SUMMARY - What have we learned? radiation &
   radioactivity are well understood we are all continuously exposed to
   low levels of radiation (Nat. Bkgd & med.) health effects depend upon
   how much radiation and in what time frame risks of low level exposures
   are low compared to other risks radiation is widely used in medicine,
   research, & industry now you are more informed about radiation &
   radioactivity Questions About: Radiation and You 1. Why are some
   materials (like uranium) considered to be radioactive while others
   (like pepperoni pizza) are not? 2. Is it true that bananas are
   radioactive? (Does this have anything to do with how King Kong got to
   be so big?) 3. Why are airline flight attendants exposed to more
   radiation than the average person? Does it have anything to do with
   airline food? 4. Do the thin "radiation" suits worn by some nuclear
   power plant workers really protect them against radiation? If so, then
   why do reactor buildings have to use a lot of concrete radiation
   shielding? 5. If alpha particles can be stopped by a piece of ordinary
   paper (this is true) why is plutonium (which emits mostly alpha
   radiation) potentially very hazardous? 6. How can radiation both cure
   cancer and cause cancer? 7. Why does the dental hygienist leave the
   room while you are getting x-rays? Does he or she know something that
   you don't? 8. If you break your arm and get an x-ray at the doctor's
   office, does your arm become radioactive? Maybe for just a few minutes?
   9. Is everything that "glows in the dark" radioactive? Do all
   radioactive materials glow in the dark? Do any radioactive materials
   glow in the dark?? 10. What do "Wint-O-Green" Lifesavers have to do
   with questions #9? 11. Is your teacher radioactive? Is the person
   sitting next to you radioactive??! 12. Are you being exposed to
   radiation while you are reading these questions? (See other side for
   answers) Answers 1. All uranium atoms have an excess amount of energy
   and undergo radioactive decay sooner or later. Therefore, all isotopes
   of uranium are considered to be "radioactive". Although almost all
   materials (even the ingredients of a pizza) have very small quantities
   of naturally occurring radioactive materials (mostly potassium-40, some
   uranium and thorium) they are not usually considered to be
   "radioactive". 2. Technically yes, because bananas contain the element
   potassium, and a very small fraction of that potassium is the naturally
   radioactive isotope potassium-40. However, the quantity of
   radioactivity is so small that you would need a very special and
   sensitive radiation detector in order to measure it. 3. The earth's
   atmosphere provides a good deal of shielding from cosmic rays. Jet
   airliners fly at very high altitudes - above much of the atmosphere.
   The dose rate from cosmic rays at these altitudes is higher than the
   dose rate at sea level. Flight crews spend many hours a day in this
   higher radiation field, and therefore receive an additional radiation
   dose of 100 to 200 millirem each year. 4. The thin paper or cloth suits
   worn by some nuclear power plant workers are "anti-contamination"
   suits, not "anti-radiation" suits. The purpose of the suits is to keep
   contaminated dust or dirt off of the worker. Such protective clothing
   does not provide any shielding against typical radiation fields in a
   nuclear plant. 5. Radioactive elements (like plutonium) that emit alpha
   particles can present a hazard if they are taken into the body by
   inhalation or by mouth. If plutonium gets inside the body, the emitted
   alpha particles deposit their energy directly into tissues and cells,
   causing damage. 6. Radiation affects the body by depositing energy into
   cells and into molecules that make up cells. If a lot of energy ( a
   high radiation dose) is deposited, the cell is killed, and cannot go on
   to reproduce a cancerous group of cells. If a smaller (sub-lethal) dose
   is deposited, the cell may just be damaged and may eventually cause
   cancer. (The cell may also be able to repair itself, in which case no
   damage or cancer will occur.) Thus, a very large dose may be used to
   destroy most or all of the cells in a tumor. A much smaller dose may
   just damage cells, and these may later become cancerous. 7. The dental
   hygienist is using good radiation protection practices in keeping his
   or her dose as low as possible. If the hygienist stayed in the room
   with you, he or she would be unnecessarily exposed to scattered
   radiation from the X-ray machine. By simply stepping out of the room
   (or around the corner) the hygienist eliminates this unnecessary
   exposure. 8. Objects (and people) do not become radioactive when
   exposed to X-rays. Although some of the energy of the X-ray beam is
   deposited in your bones ;and tissues, this energy does not make your
   body radioactive. 9. Not everything that glows in the dark is
   radioactive, in fact most radioactive materials do NOT glow in the
   dark. Fireflys give off light that is produced by a chemical (not
   nuclear) reaction. Radioactive materials (like radium) can be mixed
   with other materials (like zinc-sulfide) to produce a mixture which
   glows in the dark. 10. If you suddenly break or crush "Wint-O-Green"
   lifesavers in a dark room, you will be able to see tiny blue-green
   flashes of light. This phenomenon, called "triboluminescence" is caused
   by the release of energy stored in the crystal structure of the life
   saver. 11. Technically, everyone is a little radioactive because of the
   potassium-40 in our bodies. Each of us emit several hundred gamma-rays
   every second! 12. Yes, you are being exposed to natural background
   radiation even as you are reading this sentence (ZAP!). This background
   radiation comes from radon decay products in the air we breathe, from
   cosmic rays, from uranium and thorium in the rocks and soils (ZAP!),
   and from other naturally occurring radioactive materials (mostly
   potassium-40) found in our (ZAP!) bodies. Watch It, Dude! Watch It,
   Dude! That Stuff's Radioactive! That Stuff's Radioactive! All atoms are
   made up of neutrons, protons, and electrons, The neutrons and protons
   are located in the center ("nucleus") of the atom. This nucleus is
   surrounded by a "cloud" of orbiting electrons. The number of protons in
   an atom determine what chemical element that atom is. For example,
   every atom with 6 protons is a CARBON atom. Every atom with 19 protons
   is a POTASSIUM atom. Atoms of the same element can have different
   numbers of neutrons. Such atoms are called ISOTOPES of the element. For
   example, most potassium atoms have 19 protons and 20 neutrons, but some
   potassium atoms have 19 protons and 21 neutrons. The atoms of some
   isotopes are "unstable", that is, they have an excess amount of energy.
   These atoms get rid of this excess energy by throwing out small packets
   of energy or mass called RADIATION. Atoms which emit RADIATION are said
   to be "RADIOACTIVE." After the atom has given off it's radiation, it is
   changed into an atom of a different chemical element! For example,
   after a potassium-40 atom emits a gamma-ray, it changes into an atom of
   the element argon! Y Y o o u u aa rr e e b b e e ii n n g g e e xx p p
   o o ss e e d d tt o o R R aa d d ii aa tt ii o o n n w w h h ii ll e e
   y y o o u u rr e e aa d d tt h h ii ss p p aa g g e e !! We are all
   being exposed to very low levels of nuclear radiation all of the time!
   Everybody in the world is exposed to NATURAL BACKGROUND RADIATION. This
   radiation comes from RADON (from uranium in the soil) COSMIC RAYS,
   naturally- occurring radioactive materials (mostly potassium-40) inside
   our bodies, and directly from URANIUM AND THORIUM in the ground. On the
   average, we each get about 300 to 400 "millirem" of radiation DOSE
   every year. Most of this dose comes from natural background radiation.
   This chart shows you where this radiation comes from. Examples of
   Applications of Radiation Medical: Diagnostic X-rays (dental X-rays,
   CAT scans, mammograms, etc). Therapeutic (Co-60, accelerators for
   cancer treatments). Diagnostic nuclear medicine (liver function tests).
   Therapeutic nuclear medicine (1-131 for thyroid cancer treatment).
   Nuclear thermoelectric-powered heart pacemakers. Research: X-ray
   diffraction (study of molecular structure - e.g. DNA structure).
   Isotopic tracers (biomedical research - e.g. C-14 to study
   photosynthesis). Accelerators (nuclear structure, materials analysis).
   Electron microscopes. Consumer Products: Cathode ray tubes (TVs,
   computer monitors). Smoke detectors. Emergency lighting. Static
   eliminators. Luggage screening systems. (X-ray and neutron activation).
   Industrial: Sterilization (of medical materials & supplies). Insect
   eradication (release of insects sterilized by irradiation). Food
   preservation. Process control (density gauges). "Curing" of plastics.
   Commercial nuclear reactors. Isotopic electric power sources
   (satellites, spacecraft). Industrial radiography (verification of welds
   & structures). Ion implantation (semiconductor industry). Electron beam
   applications (e.g. vacuum deposition) National Defense: Nuclear
   weapons. Strategic defense (X-ray lasers, particle beams, etc.) A
   Summary of the Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation * Ionizing
   radiation can cause biological damage by depositing energy into the
   cells that make up the organs and tissues of our bodies. * This
   deposited energy (the radiation "dose") can damage important biological
   molecules (like DNA) that help cells work properly. * The overall
   effects of exposure to ionizing radiation depend upon the total AMOUNT
   of deposited energy (the total "dose"), the TIME PERIOD in which this
   radiation dose is received, and what PORTIONS or ORGANS of the body are
   exposed to the radiation v VERY HIGH RADIATION DOSES (doses greater
   than about 100,000 millirem) can cause serious illness, injury, and
   even death. v MODERATE RADIATION DOSES (roughly 10,000 to 50,000
   millirem) do not cause any immediate health effects, but do increase
   the risk of getting cancer or leukemia later in life. The risk is
   assumed to be proportional to the dose; i.e., the higher the dose, the
   higher the risk. v The effects of LOW RADIATION DOSES (below about
   10,000 millirem) are too small to measure. Most radiation scientists
   assume that low doses of radiation may cause an increased risk of
   getting cancer or leukemia later in life. * Radiation can also cause
   "genetic effects ". That is, people who are exposed to radiation can
   have an increased risk of having children with birth defects. However,
   there has been no indication of genetic effects in human populations. *
   Despite what you have seen in the movies, and Teenage Mutant Ninja
   Turtles notwithstanding, radiation does NOT: turn people into
   INCREDIBLE HULKS turn people into SPIDERMAN (SPIDER-PERSONS) create
   Giant Insects, Spiders, Reptiles, etc. make people glow in the dark
   turn people into cannibalistic zombies Risky Business? Risky Business?
   Each of the following activities increases your risk of death by one
   chance in one million Activity Cause of Death 10 millirem of radiation
   (typical chest X-ray) Cancer About 20 days of breathing Lung cancer
   (radon "daughters" in air) (from radiation dose to lungs) Smoking 1
   cigarette Cancer, heart disease Drinking 1/2 liter of wine Cirrhosis of
   the liver Spending 2 days in New York or Boston Air pollution Rock
   climbing for 1 1/2 minutes Fatal accident Traveling 6 minutes by canoe
   Fatal accident Traveling 10 miles by bicycle Fatal accident Traveling
   about 45 miles by car Fatal accident Flying 1000 miles by jet airplane
   Fatal accident Living 2 months with a cigarette smoker Cancer, heart
   disease Eating 40 teaspoons of peanut butter Cancer caused by alfatoxin
   B Drinking Miami drinking water for 1 year Cancer caused by chloroform
   Drinking 30 cans of diet soda Cancer caused by saccharin Eating 100
   charcoal-broiled steaks Cancer caused by benzopyrene How do these risks
   compare? How do you weigh the risks versus the benefits of each of
   these activities? Would you change your life-style to avoid or reduce
   some of these risks? Information adapted from: Pochin, E.E., "Why be
   Quantitative about Radiation Risks?", Lauriston Taylor Lecture Series
   in Radiation Protection and Measurements, Lecture 2. National Council
   on Radiation Protection and Measurements, Washington DC, 1978. Cohen,
   B.L., Lee, I.SW., "A Catalog of Risks", Health Physics 36:707-727,
   Pergamon Press, 1979. Wilson, R. "Analyzing the Daily Risks of Life",
   Technol. Rev. Vol 81, No 4, p. 40, 1979
