http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2002/01/0017.htm

   [image002.jpg]


   Release No. 0017.02

                                             Alisa Harrison   202-720-4623




VENEMAN CALLS ON JAPAN TO LIFT POULTRY IMPORT BAN


   WASHINGTON, January 18, 2002 – Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman
   called on Japan to lift a 90-day ban on U.S. poultry and poultry
   products, which was imposed due to the confirmation of a low-pathogenic
   avian influenza virus in a small number of chickens in Pennsylvania.


   “According to Office of International de Epizootics (OIE) standards,
   low pathogenic avian influenza is not a reportable disease,” Veneman
   said in a letter to Japan Agriculture Minister Tsutomu Takebe.  “Given
   that OIE standards do not support a quarantine measure under these
   circumstances, we see no justification for this action.  I urge you to
   immediately remove this unnecessary import restriction.”


   The virus was identified by the USDA’s National Veterinary Services
   Laboratory as a low-pathogenic form of AIV.  The state of Pennsylvania
   has taken aggressive actions including: depopulating the chickens to
   prevent any spread of this virus, inoculating its poultry, and an
   aggressive monitoring program to continually test birds for potential
   diseases.


   Veneman explained that the import ban is causing serious economic
   damage to U.S. poultry and egg producers in many regions of the United
   States.  The Japanese market is important to the U.S. industry
   accounting for over $170 million annually.


   “This measure is disturbingly similar to the action taken by your
   government in November 2001, which was rescinded after we demonstrated
   a ban was unnecessary,” Veneman said.  “I am troubled that, having
   resolved this issue only two months ago, we are now faced with another
   import crisis for U.S. poultry and poultry products.”


               Veneman added that the U.S. Department of Agriculture
   responded fully and immediately last week to Japanese agriculture
   ministry’s request for information on the avian influenza outbreak.
   “We now expect Japan to comply with its international obligations and
   immediately lift the import ban,” she said.


                                     ###
