http://ifmp.nasa.gov/codeb/docs/rev01PerfPlan.pdf

   NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION FY 01 REVISED FINAL
   ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
   FY 2001 REVISED FINAL ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN TABLE OF CONTENTS Page
   Numbers Background and Introduction
   .......................................................................
   ................................... PP Intro-1 Space Science
   Enterprise.............................................................
   ..................................................... PP SSE-1 Earth
   Science Enterprise
   .......................................................................
   ........................................... PP ESE-1 Human Exploration
   and Development of Space
   .......................................................................
   ........ PP HEDS-1 Aero-Space Technology Enterprise
   .......................................................................
   ........................... PP ASTE-1 Manage Strategically Crosscutting
   Process
   .......................................................................
   ............... PP MS-1 Provide Aerospace Products and Capabilities
   Crosscutting Process.................................................
   PP PAPAC-1 Generate Knowledge Crosscutting Process
   .......................................................................
   ................ PP GK-1 Communicate Knowledge Crosscutting Process
   .......................................................................
   ........ PP CK-1 Appendix Detailing Indicators supporting the Targets
   .....................................................................
   PP Appendix Space Science
   Enterprise.............................................................
   ............................... PP Appendix-1-7 Earth Science
   Enterprise
   .......................................................................
   .................... PP Appendix-8-13 Human Exploration and Development
   of Space Enterprise........................................ PP
   Appendix-14-19 Aero-Space Technology Enterprise
   .......................................................................
   ...... PP Appendix-20-24 Manage Strategically Crosscutting Process
   ............................................................... PP
   Appendix-25-26 Provide Aerospace Products and Capabilities Crosscutting
   Process........................... PP Appendix-27 Generate Knowledge
   Crosscutting Process
   ................................................................ PP
   Appendix-28-29 Communicate Knowledge Crosscutting Process
   ........................................................ PP
   Appendix-30-31 NASA FY 2001 Revised Final Performance Plan Background
   and Introduction The Government Performance and Results Act The
   Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) was passed by Congress
   and signed by the President in 1993. GPRA was enacted to improve the
   efficiency of all Federal agencies, with the following specific goals:
   * Improve Federal program management, effectiveness, and public
   accountability * Improve congressional decisionmaking on where to
   commit the Nation's financial and human resources * Improve citizen
   confidence in Government performance The Act directs Executive Branch
   agencies to develop a customer-focused strategic plan that aligns
   activities with concrete missions and goals. The first strategic plans
   were to be submitted in September 1998 as part of the Fiscal Year 1999
   (FY 1999) budget process. The budget submissions were to support the
   goals expressed in the agency strategic plans. The Act directs agencies
   to manage and measure results to justify Congressional appropriations
   and authorizations. Six months after the completion of the fiscal year,
   agencies report on the degree of success in achieving the goals and
   performance measures defined in the strategic and performance plans.
   The first such report was furnished to the Congress in March 2000,
   covering the performance in FY 1999. NASA's Strategic Management System
   Processes within NASA's Strategic Management System provide the
   information and results for GPRA's planning and reporting requirements.
   The System is defined in the NASA Strategic Management Handbook (NASA
   Procedures and Guidelines 1000.2). Figure 1 illustrates the hierarchy
   of documentation for the Strategic Management System. The NASA
   Strategic Plan (NASA Policy Directive 1000.1) defines the vision,
   mission, and fundamental questions of science and research that provide
   the foundation of the Agency's goals. The Plan describes four Strategic
   Enterprises that manage the programs and activities to implement our
   mission, answer the fundamental questions, and provide service to
   identified customers. These Strategic Enterprises are: Space Science
   Enterprise, Earth Science Enterprise, Human Exploration and Development
   of Space Enterprise, and AeroSpace Technology Enterprise. The support
   systems for the Strategic Enterprises, defined as Crosscutting
   Processes, are also defined in the Strategic Plan. These Crosscutting
   Processes are: Manage Strategically, Provide Aerospace Products and
   Capabilities, Generate Knowledge, and Communicate Knowledge. PP Intro-1
   Interested readers may access these Strategic Management System
   documents through the Internet. In accordance with OMB Circular A-11,
   the Revised Final FY 2001 Performance Plan reflects the Strategic Plan
   in force at the time the President's Budget was released. NASA's FY
   2002 Performance Plan will reflect NASA's newly released Strategic
   Plan. In the NASA Strategic Plan, the vision and mission statements of
   the Agency are articulated. We reprint them here for the convenience of
   the reader. NASA Vision Statement NASA is an investment in America's
   future. As explorers, pioneers, and innovators, we boldly expand
   frontiers in air and space to inspire and serve America and to benefit
   the quality of life on Earth. NASA Mission Statement * To advance and
   communicate scientific knowledge and understanding of the Earth, the
   solar system, and the universe and use the environment of space for
   research; * To advance human exploration, use, and development of
   space; * To research, develop, verify, and transfer advanced
   aeronautics, space, and related technologies. Outcomes of NASA's
   Activities Government investment decisions on funding for space and
   aeronautics research and technology cannot be made knowing in advance
   the full benefits ("outcomes") that will accrue from making the
   investments. Nor, can the timetable be known as to when these benefits
   will be realized. However, we can identify how the outcomes of NASA's
   activities contribute significantly to the achievement of America's
   goals in four key areas: * Economic growth and security  NASA conducts
   aeronautics and space research and develops technology in partnership
   with industry, academia, and other federal agencies to keep America
   capable and competitive. * Educational Excellence  NASA involves the
   educational community in our endeavors to inspire America's students,
   create learning opportunities, and enlighten inquisitive minds. PP
   Intro-2 * Peaceful Exploration and Discovery  NASA explores the
   Universe to enrich human life by stimulating intellectual curiosity,
   opening new worlds of opportunity, and uniting nations of the world in
   this quest. * Preserving the Environment  NASA studies the Earth as a
   planet and as a system to understand global climate change, enabling
   the world to address environmental issues. Performance targets
   supporting the first three outcomes can be found in all of the
   Enterprises and Crosscutting Processes. Performance targets supporting
   the preservation of the environment can be found in the Earth Science
   Enterprise. NASA's Fiscal Year 2001 Budget The NASA FY01 budget request
   reaffirms the President's commitment to support NASA's space and
   aeronautics program. This budget will support the Agency's priorities
   as directed by the National Space Policy and the President's Goals for
   a National Partnership in Aeronautics Research and Technology. NASA's
   priorities include a commitment to safety for human aeronautics and
   space flight, the assembly of the International Space Station, and the
   development of the Next Generation Launch Vehicle. The budget also
   provides support for an aggressive space science program, a program of
   long-term observation, research and analysis of Earth from space and
   revolutionary advancements that will sustain global U.S. leadership in
   civil aeronautics and space. The successful execution of NASA's
   strategic goals and objectives is contingent on receipt of the
   requested appropriations, as well as the provision of funds, materials,
   or services which have been committed to the cooperative agreements or
   partnerships that are referenced in this document. The parties to these
   agreements include: foreign governments, other Federal Agencies or
   Departments, and commercial entities. PP Intro-3 Fiscal Year 2001
   Estimates (In millions of Dollars) F Y 1999 F Y 2000 * F Y 2001 N A SA
   T o tal B udg et $M 13, 653 13, 602 14, 253 Space Science 2, 119 2, 194
   2, 321 E arth Science 1, 414 1, 443 1, 485 * * H uman E x plo ratio n &
   D ev elo pment o f Space 6, 309 6, 259 6, 286 A ero -Space T echno lo g
   y 1, 339 1, 125 1, 404 M issio n Suppo rt/IG /A cademic P ro g rams 2,
   472 2, 581 2, 757 * * * C iv il Serv ant F T E s 18, 469 18, 375 18,
   954 * Reflects 3/1/01 FY 01 Operating Plan ** Includes Human Space
   Flight, Biological & Physical Research and Space Operations *** FTE's
   reflect total Agency including IG. The Mission Support line in the
   preceding table includes the indirect cost of operating the NASA
   institution, including personnel providing direct and indirect support.
   This does not include Space Communication Services which is part of the
   HEDS Enterprise. Under the FY 2001 submission structure, the cost of
   Full Time Equivalents and related travel directly supporting the
   Projects and Programs of the various Enterprises are displayed in the
   Mission Support account. As NASA moves into the era of full cost
   management, the budget for the Mission Support and Other elements will
   be directly allocated to the programs and projects. For informational
   purposes, the Enterprise sections of this plan will display the Civil
   Service staffing levels assigned to the Enterprise. Additional detail
   on the means and strategies for accomplishing these performance targets
   is included in the budget narrative sections of this document. The NASA
   FY01 Budget is also available through the NASA homepage at the
   following internet address: http://ifmp.nasa.gov/codeb/budget2001/ PP
   Intro-4 NASA Performance Plan This document, as required by GPRA,
   describes performance measures and service levels for program
   activities requested in the FY 01 budget. FY 01 Revised Final
   Performance goals and objectives are defined for NASA's Strategic
   Enterprises and for Crosscutting Processes in the NASA Strategic Plan,
   with 1999 Interim Adjustments (NPD 1000.1). NASA instituted several
   major changes in the FY 01 Performance Plan. NASA revised its approach
   to the development of performance targets. The targets contained in the
   FY 01 Revised Final Performance Plan have been developed to enable a
   better understanding of how the specific measures of output
   (indicators) contribute to the eventual outcomes that are the result of
   a number of years of research, development, and data analysis. The
   performance targets in the FY 01 Revised Performance Plan have been
   developed specifically to enable us to display indicators from multiple
   years which will contribute to the achievement of the summary targets.
   This change in format will ultimately allow a more concise
   representation of the agency's performance that will more readily span
   multiple years and enable decisionmaking of the type intended by the
   authors of GPRA. NASA believes that this process improvement will
   better serve the interests of the public, our customers and agency
   management. In the Narrative Section of the FY 01 Revised Final
   Performance Plan, overall strategic goals and objectives of the
   Enterprises and Crosscutting Processes are discussed along with targets
   and indicators in a narrative form. The Appendix Section provides
   specific details of the targets and indicators used in performance
   tracking. Following the Narrative Sections, each Enterprise or
   Crosscutting Process includes a budget link table that recaps the
   relationship of budget account and targets. To facilitate configuration
   management, control numbers have been assigned to all performance
   targets. The numbering sequences may not be contiguous, as targets may
   have been dropped out as the formulation process progressed. The
   Performance Evaluation Process NASA uses a process of extensive
   internal and external reviews to evaluate our progress against
   established plans. Internally, there are standard monthly and quarterly
   project and program level reviews at the NASA field installations, at
   contractor installations, and at NASA Headquarters. There are regular
   reviews for functional management activities, such as procurement,
   finance, facilities, personnel, information resources management, etc.
   There are reviews of science, engineering, and technology plans and
   performance. The NASA Inspector General conducts independent reviews
   and provides recommendations for corrective actions. NASA has
   established management councils, as described in the NASA Strategic
   Management Handbook, that conduct internal oversight reviews.
   Throughout the year, Program Management Councils (PMCs) at Headquarters
   and the Centers assess program schedules, cost, and technical
   performance against established programmatic commitments. The Senior
   Management Council (SMC) brings together both Headquarters and Field
   Installation Directors to conduct assessment review twice a year of the
   progress being made in meeting the Enterprise and Crosscutting Process
   performance targets. PP Intro-5 NASA's extant management review
   processes provide appropriate forums for internal reporting and
   reviewing of project and program performance data. The recent
   streamlining of agency processes provides confidence that new data
   collection and oversight processes need not be created for compliance
   with GPRA. Our mission oriented organizational structure and
   established management processes are well suited to assessment of this
   type of performance evaluation. There are also significant external
   review processes in place. The external reviews typically begin with
   the peer review processes in which NASA uses panels of outside
   scientific experts to ensure that science research proposals are
   selected strictly on the merits of the planned research. This process
   takes into account past performance for selection and/or continued
   funding. External reviews of agency performance are conducted by a
   number of organizations. An independent accounting firm annually audits
   NASA's financial statements, including program and functional
   performance parameters, which leads to the publication of the
   Accountability Report. NASA requests assistance from other federal
   agencies to provide expert advice and council. In some cases, the
   organizations are advisory bodies of experts from the public and
   private sectors that work with NASA to establish priorities in
   particular scientific disciplines. In other cases, reviews are
   conducted by organizations such as the NASA Advisory Council, the
   Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel, the National Academy of Sciences, and
   the General Accounting Office, which share responsibility for oversight
   of the Agency. The use of these external reviews allows NASA to receive
   a report card on whether we are making the anticipated progress towards
   accomplishing the priorities established by the Administration, the
   Congress, and our advisory bodies. When necessary, these external
   assessments result in the revision of either implementation plans or
   strategic plans. The GPRA Performance Evaluation and Report Process For
   the purposes of the GPRA performance reporting process, NASA intends to
   use NASA's advisory committees as the critical input. These committees
   already opine on NASA's Strategic Plan, individual Enterprise Strategic
   Plans, and budgetary priorities. NASA furnishes program performance
   status information, and in turn, the committees render advice and
   council. It is this process that NASA will employ to generate an
   independent "scorecard" report on our annual performance. NASA has
   historically been one of the most open federal agencies in terms of
   performance measurements. Public attention is drawn quickly to program
   successes, and particularly to program failures. Press conferences on
   the scientific results and program technical status are commonplace.
   The technical measurement of program progress is a management
   imperative due to the heavy emphasis on development programs, and
   within the programs, the specific projects. Flight programs such as the
   International Space Station compile thousands of technical performance
   metrics, schedule milestones, and cost performance data. However, the
   GPRA requires a heavier focus on outcome metrics rather than NASA's
   ubiquitous input and output metrics. Like other federal agencies
   engaged in science and technology, NASA has difficulty in quantifying
   outcomes and, especially, relating current outcomes to current fiscal
   expenditures. This is appropriate since NASA's development programs are
   multi-year in character. In some cases, the past expenditures began
   more than a decade ago, such as the Hubble Space Telescope that entered
   into development in the mid-1970's. More recently, NASA has focused on
   programs and projects with much shorter development PP Intro-6 periods,
   on the order of 3-5 years. Yet, the science outcomes are dependent on
   scientists analyzing the information gathered in the years after
   launch. Therefore, in measuring the incremental annual performance of a
   multi-year research or development activity, where an outcome is not
   realized for several years, output metrics are the most appropriate way
   to measure the progress towards the achievement of strategic goals and
   objectives. The stated objectives of programs within NASA's Enterprises
   are long-term in character. This is exemplified by considering a Space
   Science performance objective, "Solve the mysteries of the universe."
   Annual performance evaluations assess whether appropriate progress is
   being made, perhaps actually solving individual "mysteries" to the
   satisfaction of the scientific community, or providing additional
   insights to the eventual solution of other mysteries. The assessment
   process requires a multifaceted judgement which takes into account the
   nature of the challenge of "solving the mystery," the level of
   resources available to be applied, and the actual scientific
   achievements of the past year. It is particularly important in our view
   to avoid evaluating actual output performance in R&D organizations
   solely by counting the number of planned events for the year with the
   number that actually occurred. The "beancount" approach is more
   appropriate to a known manufacturing environment. In the
   high-performance, high-risk R&D environment that characterizes NASA's
   programs, it is inadvisable to incentivize on-time performance and
   thereby de-emphasize safety, quality, high performance and appropriate
   risk- taking. NASA has worked hard to maintain the highest emphasis on
   maintaining safety; this value applies not only to safety of personnel
   but also to preservation of high value facilities, equipment,
   experimental hardware, and related capabilities. Quality goes hand-in-
   hand with safety, but extends well beyond it. For example, taking
   credit for completing a critical design review (CDR) for a spacecraft
   is only appropriate when the CDR process has been thorough, complete,
   and meets performance standards. Great care must be taken that quality
   does not suffer when contract fee incentives call for a milestone
   payment upon completion of the CDR. Other examples abound, and give
   rise to our constant vigilance to avoid rushing to launch in order to
   achieve a given date. It is possible, of course, to emphasize safety
   and quality and achieve little of lasting significance or have the
   achievement take an inordinate amount of time. Building spacecraft that
   do not test new designs, but rely only on proven designs, is
   appropriate for operational, mission agencies or commercial entities.
   It is not appropriate for an R&D environment. Conducting basic and
   applied research involves experimentation. Exploration of new methods
   and new technologies in these high-performance ventures, it is
   acceptable to take risks, to push the envelope, to fail. The tolerance
   of failure puts NASA and other R&D agencies into a different category
   than other federal agencies involved in the delivery of services to the
   public. Note, however, that this does not translate into an acceptance
   of failures that result from taking an inappropriate level of risk. The
   level of appropriate risk is tailored to the environment. The
   distinction is critical, particularly in high-value, high-cost
   environments, such as human space flight, the maintenance of the Hubble
   Space Telescope, and the launch of the Cassini spacecraft. The risk of
   failure in those venues is limited by all practicable means. Thus,
   output measures are best used in suitable context. For these reasons,
   NASA management encourages Space Shuttle program managers to shunt
   aside metrics dealing with launches planned vs. launches achieved
   during a given fiscal year. If by waiting, one less launch is achieved
   than planned, but the result is better safety or quality or enables
   improved performance or reduces risk, then the latter result is what
   NASA wants to incentivize. PP Intro-7 We have met with little success
   in past efforts to marry conventional output measures to these other
   parameters to derive a quantitative performance metric. Instead, we
   have determined that asking independent experts to review both
   quantitative and qualitative measures and to come up with an integrated
   score is a better approach. NASA's Verification and Validation of
   Performance Data NASA is committed to ensuring that reported
   performance information is valid and reliable. Data credibility is a
   critical element in the Agency's ability to manage for results and to
   be accountable for the accuracy of performance data. NASA's performance
   in developing and delivering products and services is evaluated at the
   Agency, strategic enterprise, functional office, program and project,
   crosscutting process, and individual levels. Each level has
   responsibility to execute requirements and to measure, evaluate, and
   report results. Methods and procedures for collecting this information
   are evaluated and validated by program managers who are responsible for
   data collection and reporting. As each part of the organization
   completes its measurement process, data is used to validate that
   performance meets or exceeds planned goals, objectives and performance
   targets. In those situations where performance does not meet the plan,
   opportunities for continuous improvement and reengineering are
   identified. Communicating our verification and validation approaches
   provides greater confidence that the reported performance information
   is credible and enhances the usefulness of the information.
   Documentation of the target accomplishments include persuasive evidence
   of performance to include the origin of data, the process that was used
   for verification and finally, how data was validated. Changes or
   improvements to existing data collection and reporting systems or
   processes may be included in the verification methodology. Performance
   achievement is supportable and data may be subject to audit. In
   executing NASA's mission to advance and communicate scientific
   knowledge, to advance human exploration, and to research, develop,
   verify and transfer advanced technologies from external sources are not
   always available to verify or validate reported performance. NASA
   relies on the individuals responsible for the performance to validate
   and verify the information provided to us for GPRA compliance. Reliance
   upon external sources is identified as a part of performance
   achievement. Understanding data limitations, correcting these
   limitations where necessary and cost-effective, and acknowledging those
   that remain when interpreting performance achievement performance
   measurement is a critical element of performance measurement.
   Statements on the limitations of the data and data collection problems
   are reflected in the Performance Report. Data sources that are used may
   include, but are not limited to, databases used for other purposes,
   third-party reviews, and certification by managers and/or contractors.
   For the purpose of assessing NASA's overall performance, we will
   continue to ask our Advisory Committees to evaluate accomplishments at
   the level of the Enterprise and Crosscutting Process objectives and
   targets, integrating not only quantitative output measures but also
   balancing these in the context of safety, quality, high performance,
   and appropriate risk. The Advisory Committees assign a narrative
   explanation of the rating of "red, yellow, green or blue" used to
   measure the progress made against performance metrics. In addition, the
   Office of the Inspector General has conducted validation audits of data
   used to support the Agency's actual results on selected performance
   targets to ensure that underlying performance data are accurate and
   reliable. NASA will take appropriate actions to correct any reported
   deficiencies. PP Intro-8 Space Science Enterprise Mission The primary
   Goal of the Space Science Enterprise is to chart the evolution of the
   universe from origins to destiny, and improve understanding of
   galaxies, stars, planets, and life (Figure 2). Within this Goal,
   Enterprise Objectives are to solve mysteries of the universe, explore
   the solar system, discover planets around other stars, and search for
   life beyond Earth. Other Enterprise Goals include developing innovative
   technologies to support Space Science programs and making them
   available for other applications that benefit the Nation. Enterprise
   missions and research also yield scientific information of value for
   future exploration programs. Knowledge and discoveries will be shared
   with the public to enhance science, mathematics, and technology
   education and increase the scientific and technological literacy of all
   Americans. Implementation Strategy The Space Science Enterprise is
   continuing to develop new programs through the "faster, better,
   cheaper" approach. Program managers are encouraged to shorten the
   development time of technologies and missions, explore new conceptual
   approaches, streamline management, and incorporate innovative methods
   and technologies to enhance efficiency and effectiveness while
   maintaining safety. Continuing investment in long-term, high-payoff
   technologies, such as advanced miniaturization, intelligent systems,
   autonomous operations, and simulation-based design, is key to
   implementing the Space Science mission. Collaborative efforts with
   other Federal agencies, such as the National Science Foundation,
   Department of Defense and Department of Energy, as well as with
   international partners, play a key role in the implementation strategy
   of the Enterprise. Enterprise Resource Requirements The President has
   requested the following budget for FY99 to FY05 to support the
   accomplishment of Space Science goals: $M 2,119 2,194 2,321 CS FTEs
   1,846 1,751 1,708 PP SSE-1 Performance Measures The following measures
   summarize individual targets for Enterprise programs: Goal: Chart the
   evolution of the universe from origins to destiny, and understand its
   galaxies, stars, and life. Objective: Solve Mysteries of the Universe *
   Successfully develop and launch no fewer than three of four planned
   missions within 10% of budget and schedule. Missions are: GALEX, MAP,
   GP-B, and CATSAT. (Target: 1S1). * Obtain expected scientific data from
   at least 80% of operating missions. Missions are: HST, CXO, XTE, ACE,
   FUSE, SWAS, and, if successfully launched, GALEX, and GP-B. (Target:
   1S2). * Perform innovative scientific research and technology
   development by meeting technology development objectives for major
   projects, by achieving mission success in astronomy rocket and balloon
   flights, and by making satisfactory research progress in related
   Research and Analysis (R&A) and Data Analysis (DA) programs. Meet no
   fewer than 66% of the performance objectives for the following
   technology and research programs: NGST, Herschel (FIRST), GLAST,
   Sounding Rockets, Balloons, and R&A. Achieve a "fully effective"
   (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space Science
   external advisory committee. (Target: 1S3). Objective: Explore the
   Solar System (This objective includes missions to increase our
   understanding of the Sun and its effects on the Earth, as well as
   missions to explore the solar system.) * Successfully develop and
   launch no fewer than one of two missions within 10% of budget and
   schedule. Missions are: Mars Odyssey ('01 Orbiter) and Genesis.
   (Target: 1S4). * Obtain expected scientific data from at least 80% of
   operating missions. Missions are: Cassini, Voyager, Ulysses, SAMPEX,
   FAST, TRACE, Stardust, Mars Global Surveyor, and ISTP spacecraft; also,
   if successfully launched, TIMED, HESSI, IMAGE, Genesis, and Mars
   Odyssey ('01 Orbiter). (Target: 1S5). * Perform innovative scientific
   research and technology development by meeting technology development
   objectives for major projects, by achieving mission success in space
   physics rocket and balloon flights, and by making satisfactory research
   progress in related R&A and DA programs. Meet no fewer than 66% of the
   performance objectives for the following technology and research
   programs: Solar-B, STEREO, Solar Probe, Future Solar Terrestrial
   Probes, Future Deep Space Technology, CISM, X- 2000, Sounding Rockets,
   and Balloons. Achieve a "fully effective" (green) overall science
   achievement rating from the Space Science external advisory committee.
   (Target: 1S6). Objective: Discover Planets Around Other Stars * Perform
   innovative scientific research and technology development by meeting
   interferometry technology development objectives and by making
   satisfactory research progress in related R&A programs. Meet no fewer
   than 66% of the performance objectives for SIM, TPF, ST-3, Keck, and
   R&A. Achieve a "fully effective" (green) overall science achievement
   rating from the Space Science external advisory committee. (Target:
   1S7). PP SSE-2 Objective: Search for Life Beyond Earth * Advance the
   search for life beyond Earth by successfully launching a Mars mission,
   by obtaining data from operational spacecraft, and by performing
   innovative technology development. Meet no fewer than two of the three
   performance objectives for Mars Odyssey ('01 Orbiter), Mars Global
   Surveyor, and Terrestrial Planet Finder. (Target: 1S14). * Perform
   innovative scientific research and technology development by meeting
   technology development objectives and by making satisfactory research
   progress in the related R&A program, including the Astrobiology
   program. Meet no fewer than two of the three performance objectives for
   Europa Orbiter, Astrobiology, and R&A. Achieve a "fully effective"
   (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space Science
   external advisory committee. (Target: 1S8). Goal: Contribute measurably
   to achieving the science, math, and technology education goals of our
   nation. Objective: Make education and enhanced public understanding of
   science an integral part of our missions and research * Continue and
   expand the integration of education and enhanced public understanding
   of science with Enterprise research and flight mission programs. Meet
   no fewer than 75% of the eight performance objectives for education and
   public outreach. (Target: 1S9). Goal: Support human exploration through
   robotic missions. Objective: Investigate the composition, evolution,
   and resources of Mars, the Moon, and small bodies * Investigate the
   composition, evolution, and resources of Mars, the Moon, and small
   bodies by successfully launching a Mars mission, by obtaining data from
   operational spacecraft, and by making satisfactory progress in related
   R&A and DA programs. Meet no fewer than 75% of the performance
   objectives for Mars Odyssey ('01 Orbiter), CONTOUR, Mars Global
   Surveyor, and R&A. Achieve a "fully effective" (green) overall science
   achievement rating from the Space Science external advisory committee.
   (Target: 1S10). Objective: Develop the knowledge to improve the
   reliability of space weather forecasting * Develop the knowledge to
   improve the reliability of space weather forecasting by obtaining
   scientific data from three of five missions and by making satisfactory
   progress in related areas in R&A and DA programs. Meet no fewer than
   75% of the performance objectives for R&A, ACE, SAMPEX, TRACE, ISTP,
   and, if successfully launched, HESSI. Achieve a "fully effective"
   (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space Science
   external advisory committee. (Target: 1S11). * Further understanding of
   basic natural processes and the effects of solar variability on humans
   and technology. Meet no fewer than two of the three performance
   objectives for the following Living With a Star program elements:
   Strategic Plan Development, Solar Dynamics Observatory, and Research
   and Data Analysis. Achieve a "fully effective' (green) overall science
   achievement rating from the Space Science external advisory committee.
   (Target: 1S13). PP SSE-3 Goal: Develop new technologies needed to carry
   out innovative and less costly mission and research concepts Objective:
   Develop new technologies needed to carry out innovative and less costly
   mission and research concepts Plan, develop, and validate new
   technologies needed to enable future research and flight missions by
   achieving performance objectives in the space science core technology
   programs and by making progress as planned in the Flight Validation
   program. Meet no fewer than 66% of the performance objectives for
   Information Systems, High Performance Computing, Explorer Program
   Technology, and Flight Validation. (Target: 1S12). Internal Assessment
   The Space Science program consists of numerous diverse components, and
   each component's performance must be assessed in an appropriate way.
   For some program elements, such as mission development, achievement of
   major milestones is easily identified through routine project
   management reviews. For missions in an operational phase, success can
   be gauged in terms of operating efficiency or major data sets returned.
   For technology programs, progress can be predicted and measured in
   terms of technical capabilities achieved or successful laboratory or
   flight tests. In each of these cases, performance assessment data can
   be retrieved from normal project management reporting during the course
   of the fiscal year. External Assessment For the basic research
   programs, evaluation must consider important contextual factors such
   as: the relative value of the research objectives; progress toward
   those objectives; productivity by prevailing research community
   standards; and impact on related research funded or performed by other
   agencies. Measures such as number of grants or scientists supported,
   publication counts, or research citations are not able to capture these
   important aspects of the evaluation requirement. The best way to assess
   research programs has been demonstrated to be an external peer review
   or visiting committee approach. The Enterprise will employ this
   mechanism to qualitatively assess the progress of its programs in basic
   research and data analysis against Enterprise strategic plan science
   goals and objectives. The reviews will determine whether these
   investigation programs are fully effective, are not as strong as
   desired but have returned results of significant value, or are not
   scientifically or technologically competitive. The review process will
   also identify those programs that have produced important unexpected
   results or have contributed to an unanticipated degree to other
   research. PP SSE-4 SSE FY01 Budget Category SIRTF HST Development GP-B
   SOFIA Payloads Explorers Discovery Mars Surveyor Operating Missions
   SR&T Performance Target Solve Mysteries of the Universe: Successfully
   develop and launch no fewer than three of four planned missions within
   10% of budget and schedule. Missions are: GALEX, MAP, GP-B, and CATSAT.
   (1S1) X X X X X X Solve Mysteries of the Universe: Obtain expected
   scientific data from at least 80% of operating missions. Missions are:
   HST, CXO, XTE, ACE, FUSE, SWAS, and, if successfully launched, GALEX,
   and GP-B. (1S2) X Solve Mysteries of the Universe: Perform innovative
   scientific research and technology development by meeting technology
   development objectives for major projects, by achieving mission success
   in astronomy rocket and balloon flights, and by making satisfactory
   research progress in related Research and Analysis (R&A) and Data
   Analysis (DA) programs. Meet no fewer than 66% of the performance
   objectives for the following technology and research programs: NGST,
   Herschel (FIRST), GLAST, Sounding Rockets, Balloons, and R&A. Achieve a
   "fully effective" (green) overall science achievement rating from the
   Space Science external advisory committee. (1S3) X Explore the Solar
   System: Successfully develop and launch no fewer than one of two
   missions within 10% of budget and schedule. Missions are: Mars Odyssey
   ('01 Orbiter) and Genesis. (1S4) X X X X Explore the Solar System:
   Obtain expected scientific data from at least 80% of operating
   missions. Missions are: Cassini, Voyager, Ulysses, SAMPEX, FAST, TRACE,
   Stardust, Mars Global Surveyor, and ISTP spacecraft; also, if
   successfully launched, TIMED, HESSI, IMAGE, Genesis, and Mars Odyssey
   ('01 Orbiter). (1S5) X PP SSE-5 SSE FY01 Budget Category SIRTF HST
   Development GP-B SOFIA Payloads Explorers Discovery Mars Surveyor
   Operating Missions SR&T Explore the Solar System: Perform innovative
   scientific research and technology development by meeting technology
   development objectives for major projects, by achieving mission success
   in space physics rocket and balloon flights, and by making satisfactory
   research progress in related R&A and DA programs. Meet no fewer than
   66% of the performance objectives for the following technology and
   research programs: Solar-B, STEREO, Solar Probe, Future Solar
   Terrestrial Probes, Future Deep Space Technology, CISM, X-2000,
   Sounding Rockets, and Balloons. Achieve a "fully effective" (green)
   overall science achievement rating from the Space Science external
   advisory committee. (1S6) X Discover Planets Around Other Stars:
   Perform innovative scientific research and technology development by
   meeting interferometry technology development objectives and by making
   satisfactory research progress in related R&A programs. Meet no fewer
   than 66% of the performance objectives for SIM, TPF, ST-3, Keck, and
   R&A. Achieve a "fully effective" (green) overall science achievement
   rating from the Space Science external advisory committee. (1S7) X
   Search for Life Beyond Earth: Advance the search for life beyond Earth
   by successfully launching a Mars mission, by obtaining data from
   operational spacecraft, and by performing innovative technology
   development. Meet no fewer than two of the three performance objectives
   for Mars Odyssey ('01 Orbiter), Mars Global Surveyor, and Terrestrial
   Planet Finder. (1S14) X X X PP SSE-6 SSE FY01 Budget Category SIRTF HST
   Development GP-B SOFIA Payloads Explorers Discovery Mars Surveyor
   Operating Missions SR&T Search for Life Beyond Earth: Perform
   innovative scientific research and technology development by meeting
   technology development objectives and by making satisfactory research
   progress in the related R&A program, including the Astrobiology
   program. Meet no fewer than two of the three performance objectives for
   Europa Orbiter, Astrobiology, and R&A. Achieve a "fully effective"
   (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space Science
   external advisory committee. (1S8) X Make Education and Enhanced Public
   Understanding of Science an Integral Part of our Missions and Research:
   Continue and expand the integration of education and enhanced public
   understanding of science with Enterprise research and flight mission
   programs. Meet no fewer than 75% of the eight performance objectives
   for education and public outreach. (1S9) X X X X X X X X X X
   Investigate the Composition, Evolution, and Resources of Mars, the
   Moon, and Small Bodies: Investigate the composition, evolution, and
   resources of Mars, the Moon, and small bodies by successfully launching
   a Mars mission, by obtaining data from operational spacecraft, and by
   making satisfactory progress in related R&A and DA programs. Meet no
   fewer than 75% of the performance objectives for Mars Odyssey ('01
   Orbiter), CONTOUR, Mars Global Surveyor, and R&A. Achieve a "fully
   effective" (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space
   Science external advisory committee. (1S10) X X X X PP SSE-7 SSE FY01
   Budget Category SIRTF HST Development GP-B SOFIA Payloads Explorers
   Discovery Mars Surveyor Operating Missions SR&T Develop the Knowledge
   to Improve the Reliability of Space Weather Forecasting: Develop the
   knowledge to improve the reliability of space weather forecasting by
   obtaining scientific data from three of five missions and by making
   satisfactory progress in related areas in R&A and DA programs. Meet no
   fewer than 75% of the performance objectives for R&A, ACE, SAMPEX,
   TRACE, ISTP, and, if successfully launched, HESSI. Achieve a "fully
   effective" (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space
   Science external advisory committee. (1S11) X X Develop the Knowledge
   to Improve the Reliability of Space Weather Forecasting : Further
   understanding of basic natural processes and the effects of solar
   variability on humans and technology. Meet no fewer than two of the
   three performance objectives for the following Living With a Star
   program elements: Strategic Plan Development, Solar Dynamics
   Observatory, and Research and Data Analysis. Achieve a "fully
   effective' (green) overall science achievement rating from the Space
   Science external advisory committee. (1S13) X Develop New Technologies
   Needed to Carry Out Innovative and Less Costly Mission and Research
   Concepts: Plan, develop, and validate new technologies needed to enable
   future research and flight missions by achieving performance objectives
   in the space science core technology programs and by making progress as
   planned in the Flight Validation program. Meet no fewer than 66% of the
   performance objectives for Information Systems, High Performance
   Computing, Explorer Program Technology, and Flight Validation. (1S12) X
   PP SSE-8 Earth Science Enterprise Mission The Earth Science Enterprise
   (ESE) mission is to understand the total Earth system and the effects
   of natural and human-induced changes on the global environment. The
   programs of the ESE advance the new discipline of Earth System Science,
   with a near-term emphasis on global climate change. Both space and
   ground-based capabilities yield new scientific understanding of Earth
   and practical benefits to the Nation. The research results will
   contribute to the development of environmental policy and economic
   investment decisions. The ESE mission includes the development of
   innovative technologies to support Earth Science programs and make them
   available for solving practical societal problems in agriculture and
   food production, water resources, and national resource management that
   provide benefits to the Nation. Knowledge and discoveries will be
   shared with the public to enhance science, mathematics, and technology
   education as well as increase the scientific and technological literacy
   of all Americans. Implementation Strategy The ESE conducts global and
   regional research requiring the vantagepoint of space. New programs
   will be developed and deployed through the "faster, better, cheaper"
   approach. Program managers are encouraged to accept prudent risk,
   shorten development time of technologies and missions, explore new
   conceptual approaches, streamline management, and incorporate
   innovative methods to enhance efficiency and effectiveness. Programs of
   the ESE contribute to the U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP)
   and are conducted in collaboration with ten other U.S. Federal agencies
   and 13 nations. Cooperative research programs with national and
   international partners will continue to play a key role in the
   implementation strategy of the ESE. The same spirit of innovation that
   embodies the Earth Science flight programs applies to technology
   development. Long-term, high- risk, high-payoff technologies are key to
   implementing the Earth Science mission. The ESE priorities feature
   near-term product milestones on a path of long-term inquiry. Obtaining
   data from the private sector is an emerging feature of the ESE
   strategy. This will reduce Agency costs and encourage the growth of the
   commercial remote-sensing industry. ESE's first Science Research Plan,
   published in 1996, laid out a strategy for study in five Earth system
   science areas of maturing scientific understanding and significant
   societal importance: land-cover and land use changes; short-term
   climate events, natural hazards research and applications; long-term
   climate change research; and atmospheric ozone research. The plan also
   outlined some twenty related areas of research, which underlie these
   themes and round out the Earth Science contribution to Earth system
   science. The National Research Council (NRC) recognized the complexity
   of global Earth environment issues, the multiplicity of interactions
   between component processes and the cross-disciplinary connections they
   evoke (Research Pathways for the Next Decade-Overview; NRC, 1998). In
   the face of such complexity, the NRC outlined a diversity of unsolved
   scientific questions that call for further study, but also emphasized
   the need for a focused scientific strategy, concentrating efforts and
   resources on critical scientific problems that are most relevant to
   national policy issues. Responding to the latter recommendation, the
   ESE is pursuing a targeted research program, focused on an updated set
   of specific science questions that can be addressed effectively with
   NASA's PP ESE-1 capabilities, and formulating comprehensive research
   strategies that can lead to definitive scientific answers, as well as
   effective applications for all citizens. The key research topics
   studied by NASA's ESE fall largely into three categories: forcings,
   responses, and the processes that link the two and provide feedback
   mechanisms. This conceptual approach applies in essence to all research
   areas of NASA's Earth Science program, although it is particularly
   relevant to the problem of climate change, a major Earth
   Science-related issues facing the countries of the world. The ESE has
   articulated a set of science questions which its observational programs
   and research, modeling, and analysis activities are directed at
   answering. How does the Earth change naturally? What are the primary
   forcings of the Earth system by human activities? How does the Earth
   system respond to natural and human-induced changes? What are the
   consequences of changes in the Earth system for human civilization? How
   can we predict the changes in the Earth system that will take place in
   the future? These questions will be addressed by a research community
   organized around science disciplines reflecting Earth system components
   undergoing and responding to change (e.g. the chemistry of the
   atmosphere and the biogeochemistry of the global carbon cycle).
   Enterprise Resource Requirements The President has requested the
   following budget for FY99 to FY01 to support the accomplishment of ESE
   goals: FY 1999 FY 2000 FY 2001 $M 1,414 1,443 1,485 CS FTE 1,365 1,382
   1,419 PP ESE-2 Performance Measures Goal: Expand scientific knowledge
   by characterizing the Earth system. Objective: Successfully launch
   spacecraft. * Target: The ESE will successfully develop, have ready for
   launch, and operate instruments on at least two spacecraft within 10
   percent of their schedules and budget to enable Earth Science research
   and applications goals and objectives. 1Y1 Goal: Disseminate
   information about the Earth system. Objective: Implement open,
   distributed, and responsive data system architecture. The dissemination
   of information resulting from Earth Science research is accomplished
   through the Earth Observing System Data and Information System
   (EOSDIS), and will continue to be a high priority in FY01. Distribution
   systems will be improved and new methods will be developed to place
   data in the hands of Earth Science customers in a timely manner through
   open, distributed, and responsive data system architectures.
   Performance target will be to: * Target: Successfully disseminate Earth
   Science data to enable our science research and applications goals and
   objectives by meeting all performance indicators in this research area.
   1Y2 Goal: Expand scientific knowledge by characterizing the Earth
   system. Objective: Understand the causes and consequences of
   land-cover/land-use change - determining how land cover and climate
   changes affect agricultural productivity and terrestrial and marine
   ecosystem health. The carbon cycle is one of the major Earth system
   processes influencing global climate. NASA research on the biology and
   biogeochemistry of ecosystems and the global carbon cycle aims to
   understand and predict how terrestrial and marine ecosystems are
   changing. This research theme addresses ecosystems as they are affected
   by human activity, as they change due to their own intrinsic biological
   dynamics, and as they respond to climatic variations and, in turn,
   affect climate. Emphasis is on understanding the processes of the Earth
   system that affect its capacity for biological productivity and the
   role of the biosphere in Earth system PP ESE-3 function. Understanding
   the distribution and cycling of carbon among the active land, ocean,
   and atmospheric reservoirs constitutes a major scientific focus for
   research. The performance targets will be to: * Target: Increase
   understanding of the dynamics of the global carbon cycle by developing,
   analyzing and documenting multi-year data sets and meeting at least 3
   of 4 performance indicators in this research area. 1Y3 * Target:
   Explain the dynamics of global carbon cycle by building improved models
   and prediction capabilities and meeting 2 of 2 performance indicators
   in this research area. 1Y4 Objective: Predict seasonal-to-interannual
   climate variation - determining how water cycles among land, oceans and
   atmosphere and its impacts on fresh water availability. Ascertaining
   the rate of cycling of water in the Earth system, and detecting
   possible changes, is a first-order problem with regards to the issue of
   renewal of water resources. Current ESE program activities in this area
   are: establishing the existence (or absence) of a trend in the rate of
   the global water cycle, investigating the relationships between
   large-scale climate anomalies and weather patterns, and accurately
   representing the integrated effect of water vapor absorption and clouds
   in a way that is suitable for use in models of climate. The overarching
   goal is to improve the understanding of the global water cycle to the
   point at which useful predictions of regional hydrologic regimes can be
   made. This predictive capability is essential for practical
   applications to water resource management and for validating scientific
   advances through the test of real-life prediction. In FY01 the ESE will
   continue to invest in observations, research, data analysis, and
   modeling in this area. The Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM),
   launched in 1997, will continue to gather information on rainfall in
   the tropics where two-thirds of global precipitation falls. This is the
   key to understanding Earth's hydrological cycle, one of the three major
   processes driving climate change and the global heat balance which
   drives seasonal change. Current uncertainty in global tropical rainfall
   estimates is 50 percent; TRMM data will reduce this uncertainty to 10
   percent, an 80 percent improvement. The performance targets will be to:
   * Target: Increase understanding of the dynamics of global water cycle
   by developing, analyzing, and documenting multi-year data sets and
   meeting 2 of 2 performance indicators in this research area. 1Y5 *
   Target: Explain the dynamics of global water cycle by building improved
   models and prediction capabilities and meeting at least 2 of 3
   performance indicators in this research area. 1Y6 Objective: Detect
   long-term climate change, causes, and impacts - understanding, modeling
   and predicting near and long-term climate variability at global and
   regional scales. PP ESE-4 Climate is not perceived as a static property
   of the environment any more, but rather a dynamic state that is
   expected to evolve in the future. This research theme focuses on the
   modes of variability that involve in a fundamental way the dynamics of
   the slower components of the physical climate system, the ocean
   circulation and the mass balance of polar ice sheet. These components
   respond to disturbances with greater inertia, and therefore longer
   "memories", than the atmosphere. Currently the ESE research seeks to;
   understand the mechanisms of climate variability and predict future
   transient variations, assess the response of the Earth climate to
   changes in external forcing factors or surface boundary conditions, and
   assess the current mass balance of polar ice- sheets and potential
   future changes, including effects on sea level. The performance targets
   will be to: * Target: Increase understanding of the dynamics of long
   term climate variability by developing, analyzing, and documenting
   multi-year data sets and meeting at least 2 of 3 performance indicators
   in this research area. 1Y7 * Target: Explain the dynamics of long term
   climate variability by building improved models and prediction
   capabilities and meeting at least 3 of 4 performance indicators in this
   research area. 1Y8 Objective: Understand the causes of variation in
   atmospheric ozone concentration and distribution - monitoring and
   predicting how atmospheric composition is changing in response to
   natural and human-induced factors. Atmospheric change is the result of
   strongly interactive chemical and physical processes. Chemistry plays a
   role in determining weather and climate, while the physics and dynamics
   of the atmosphere influence chemical processes and composition. The
   goals of the Atmospheric Chemistry Research Program are to measure and
   understand how atmospheric composition is changing in response to
   natural and anthropogenic forcings, and enable accurate prediction of
   future changes in ozone and surface ultraviolet radiation, climate
   forcing factors, and global pollution. The performance targets will be
   to: * Target: Increase understanding of the dynamics of atmospheric
   composition by developing, analyzing, and documenting multi- year data
   sets and meeting at least 4 of 5 performance indicators in this
   research area. 1Y9 * Target: Explain the dynamics of atmospheric
   chemistry by building improved models and prediction capabilities and
   meeting at least 2 of 3 performance indicators in this research area.
   1Y10 Objective: Identify natural hazards, processes, and mitigation
   strategies - discovering the nature and processes of the Earth's
   dynamic interior and crust to better prepare for natural hazards. The
   long-standing Earth Science Research Program in fundamental solid Earth
   Science explores issues such as the dynamics of the Earth's interior
   and crust, tectonic motions, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and the
   evolution of landscapes. Results of this and other relevant activities
   are developed and applied to the assessment and mitigation of natural
   disasters for the practice of disaster PP ESE-5 management, working
   together with practitioners at the international, federal, state and
   local levels. Through the development of technologies designed to
   observe and understand the Earth, the ESE possesses an inventory of
   observational capabilities and techniques which can be developed and
   applied to understanding natural hazards, characterizing natural
   disasters, and monitoring conditions that may lead to such events. The
   ESE will use a combination of space-based and airborne assets to
   monitor and assess impacts of natural hazards such as volcanoes,
   earthquakes, forest fires, hurricanes, floods and droughts. The
   short-term objective is to assess impacts of these events on national
   and international agriculture, food production, water resources,
   commerce, etc. The long-term objective is to apply the scientific
   understanding toward developing a predictive capability. The
   performance targets will be to: * Target: Increase understanding of the
   dynamics of the Earth's interior and crust by developing, analyzing,
   and documenting multi-year data sets and meeting 2 of 2 performance
   indicators in this research area. 1Y11 * Target: Explain the dynamics
   of the Earth's interior and crust by building improved models and
   prediction capabilities and meeting 2 of 2 performance indicators in
   this research area.. 1Y12 Goal: Enable the productive use of ESE
   science and technology in the public and private sector. Objective:
   Develop and transfer advanced remote sensing technologies. In
   collaboration with partners in industry and academia, the ESE will
   develop and demonstrate new technologies of value to remote- sensing
   research. The performance target will be to: * Target: Achieve success
   with timely development and infusion of technologies. Enable future
   science missions by increasing technology readiness for mission
   concepts to reduce their total cost. Do this by meeting at least 3 of 4
   performance indicators for this advanced technology area. 1Y13
   Objective: Extend the use of Earth Science research for national,
   state, and local applications. Because the ESE addresses science
   questions of societal importance, the research performed also leads to
   practical applications. ESE works with National, State, and local
   government entities to help them develop remote sensing applications
   products to address issues of importance to them. These include
   agricultural productivity, natural resources management, as well as
   urban and regional planning. PP ESE-6 The performance targets will be
   to: * Target: Provide regional decision-makers with scientific and
   applications products/tools by meeting at least 7 of 8 performance
   indicators for this applications research area.1Y14 * Target: Improve
   access to and understanding of remotely sensed data and processing
   technology by meeting 3 of 3 performance indicators in this area. 1Y15
   Objective: Support the development of a robust commercial remote
   sensing industry. NASA is committed to a growing relationship with the
   commercial remote sensing industry to enhance the utility of Earth
   Science information in the U.S. economy. Commercial firms are both
   potential sources of science-quality remote sensing data, and producers
   of "value-added" information products from U.S. research satellites.
   The performance targets will be: * Target: Stimulate the development of
   a robust commercial remote sensing industry by meeting at least 4 of 5
   performance indicators in this area. 1Y16 * Target: Provide remote
   sensing tools and capabilities that could enable efficiencies in food
   and fiber production with the aid of remote sensing by meeting the
   performance indicator in this area. 1Y17 Objective: Increase public
   understanding of Earth System through education and outreach. Earth
   Science missions and research programs make a unique contribution to
   education and the public understanding of Earth Science. They provide a
   steady return of discoveries and new knowledge contributes to the
   accomplishment of this objective. The ESE will continue to sponsor
   research awards through NASA's Graduate Student Research Program. The
   performance target will be to: * Target: Increase public understanding
   of Earth system science through formal and informal education by
   meeting at least 3 of 4 performance targets in this area. 1Y18
   Objective: Make major scientific contributions to national and
   international environmental assessments. Because of the nature of the
   discipline, it is vital that Earth Science research be conducted
   through cooperation and partnerships with other agencies and with other
   countries. The ESE will continue to contribute scientific knowledge and
   observations and PP ESE-7 modeling results to national and
   international scientific environmental assessments. The targets for
   this objective are embedded within targets in other program areas.
   Internal Assessment The Earth Science Enterprise will regularly review
   performance objectives as part of our existing monthly review process.
   Using a database to track current performance monthly for each specific
   FY01 target will enable the Enterprise to focus on targets that need
   improvement. ESE management will institute measures to ensure
   improvement. As ESE is a scientific endeavor, many of its measures
   involve scientific results. These are subject to peer review, both in
   the selection of the science investigation, and in the reporting of
   findings in the scientific literature. Where the metric is production
   of a data product, these must be archived in ESE's information system,
   where their availability can be confirmed via an Internet query.
   Metrics addressing scientific assessment activities result in formal,
   published reports that are readily identified. External Assessment The
   Earth Science Advisory Committee of the NASA Advisory Council will
   conduct an annual assessment of the ESE's near-term science objectives.
   The Committee will provide a qualitative progress measurement (Green,
   Yellow, or Red). "Green" will indicate that the objective was met;
   "Yellow" will indicate a concern that an objective was not fully
   accomplished; and "Red" will indicate that events occurred that
   prevented or severely impaired the accomplishment of the objective. The
   assessment will include commentary to clarify and supplement the
   qualitative measures. Earth Systems Science and Application Advisory
   Committee (ESSAAC) is a committee of the NASA Advisory Council under
   the Federal Advisory Committee Act, and comprises outside scientific
   and technical experts from academia, industry, and other government
   agencies. ESSAAC meets at least twice a year to review plans and
   progress in the ESE. After the end of each fiscal year, the ESE will
   provide ESSAAC a self-assessment in each of the relevant objectives,
   highlighting performance against the metrics in the Performance Plan
   for that year. ESSAAC will deliberate internally and render its own
   assessment, which may confirm or modify the ESE's self-assessment.
   ESSAAC's assessment will be reported in the Performance Report for that
   year. This process will be repeated annually. PP ESE-8 ESE FY01 Budget
   Category EOS Earth probes Operations Research and Technology
   Performance Target Successfully develop, have ready for launch, and
   operate instruments on at least two spacecraft to enable Earth Science
   research and applications goals and objectives. (1Y1) X X X
   Successfully disseminate Earth Science data to enable our science
   research and applications goals and objectives by meeting all
   performance indicators in this research area. (1Y2) X Increase
   understanding of the dynamics of the global carbon cycle by developing,
   analyzing and documenting multi-year data sets and meeting at least 3
   of 4 performance indicators in this research area. (1Y3) X X X X
   Explain the dynamics of global carbon cycle by building improved models
   and prediction capabilities and meeting 2 of 2 performance indicators
   in this research area. (1Y4) X X Increase understanding of the dynamics
   of global water cycle by developing, analyzing, and documenting
   multi-year data sets and meeting 2 of 2 performance indicators in this
   research area. (1Y5) X X X Explain the dynamics of global water cycle
   by building improved models and prediction capabilities and meeting at
   least 2 of 3 performance indicators in this research area. (1Y6) X X
   Increase understanding of the dynamics of long term climate variability
   by developing, analyzing, and documenting multi-year data sets and
   meeting at least 2 of 3 performance indicators in this research area.
   (1Y7) X X Explain the dynamics of long term climate variability by
   building improved models and prediction capabilities and meeting at
   least 3 of 4 performance indicators in this research area. (1Y8) X X X
   Increase understanding of the dynamics of atmospheric composition by
   developing, analyzing, and documenting multi-year data sets and meeting
   at least 4 of 5 performance indicators in this research area. (1Y9) X X
   X X PP ESE-9 ESE FY01 Budget Category EOS Earth probes Operations
   Research and Technology Explain the dynamics of atmospheric chemistry
   by building improved models and prediction capabilities and meeting at
   least 2 of 3 performance indicators in this research area. (1Y10) X X
   Increase understanding of the dynamics of the Earth's interior and
   crust by developing, analyzing, and documenting multi-year data sets
   and meeting 2 of 2 performance indicators in this research area. (1Y11)
   X Explain the dynamics of the Earth's interior and crust by building
   improved models and prediction capabilities and meeting 2 of 2
   performance indicators in this research area. (1Y12) X Achieve success
   with timely development and infusion of technologies. Enable future
   science missions by increasing technology readiness for mission
   concepts to reduce their total cost. Do this by meeting at least 3 of 4
   performance indicators for this advanced technology area. (1Y13) X
   Provide regional decision-makers with scientific and applications
   products/tools by meeting at least 7 of 8 performance indicators for
   this applications research area. (1Y14) X X X Improve access to and
   understanding of remotely sensed data and processing technology by
   meeting 3 of 3 performance indicators in this area. (1Y15) X Stimulate
   the development of a robust commercial remote sensing industry by
   meeting at least 4 of 5 performance indicators in this area. (1Y16) X
   Provide remote sensing tools and capabilities that could enable
   efficiencies in food and fiber production with the aid of remote
   sensing by meeting the performance indicator in this area. (1Y17) X
   Increase public understanding of Earth system science through formal
   and informal education by meeting at least 3 of 4 performance targets
   in this area. (1Y18) X PP ESE-10 Human Exploration and Development of
   Space Mission The Human Exploration and Development of Space (HEDS)
   Enterprise mission is to open the space frontier by exploring, using,
   and enabling the development of space to expand the human experience
   into space and bring the benefits of space to Earth. The Enterprise
   mission includes the development of innovative technologies to support
   HEDS programs and make them available for other applications that
   provide benefits to the Nation. Knowledge and discoveries will be
   shared with the public to enhance science, mathematics, and technology
   education and increase the scientific and technological literacy of all
   Americans. Implementation Strategy The HEDS Enterprise strategy is
   integrated and implemented by two program offices: the Office of Space
   Flight (OSF) and the Office of Life and Microgravity Sciences and
   Applications (OLMSA). The OSF strategy to contribute to the HEDS
   mission is focused on providing the infrastructure to enable research,
   exploration, and development, and consists of four major components:
   ensure safe, reliable and affordable access to space; establish
   permanent human presence aboard an earth-orbiting research laboratory;
   provide a space operations infrastructure; and expand the commercial
   development of space. To ensure safe, reliable and affordable access to
   space, safety investments provide for the modifications and
   improvements of the Space Shuttle and ground facilities through
   replacement of obsolete systems and expansion of safety and operating
   margins. Investments are also made in Space Shuttle operations
   including hardware production, ground and payload processing, launch
   and landing operations, flight crew operations, training, logistics,
   sustaining engineering, and in support of agency-wide needs for
   expendable launch vehicle (ELV) services. The implementation strategy
   for establishing permanent human presence in space is encompassed in
   the International Space Station (ISS) program. Assembly began with the
   November 1998 launch of the U.S.-owned/ Russian-launched functional
   cargo block (FGB) and permanent human presence should begin this year,
   as assembly continues. A space operations infrastructure that supports
   agency-wide operations is provided, and innovative approaches to
   expanding the commercial development of space are being pursued. The
   OLMSA strategy to contribute to the HEDS mission is focused on
   conducting three types of research and technology development:
   fundamental, mission-driven, and application-driven research. OLMSA
   supports fundamental research driven by an emphasis on expanding
   scientific knowledge. Its focus on mission-driven research improves
   knowledge and technology for human space flight. The application-driven
   research of OLMSA seeks to transfer knowledge, expertise, and
   technology from HEDS missions to other uses that provide benefits to
   the Nation. PP HEDS-1 Enterprise Resource Requirements The President
   has requested the following budget for FY99 to FY01 to support the
   accomplishment of HEDS goals: $M 6,309 6,259 6,286 CS FTE 5,364 5,294
   5,627 Performance Measures Goal: Expand the Space Frontier. Objective:
   Expand human exploration through collaborative robotic missions. *
   Target: Complete testing and delivery for spacecraft integration of
   experiments for the Mars Surveyor Program 2001 missions. 1H1 Objective:
   Define innovative human exploration mission approaches. * Target:
   Complete initial next decade planning mission architecture studies and
   technology plans. Architecture studies support near-term technology
   investment decisions to create building blocks that may enable a range
   of long-term planning options for future missions of exploration. 1H2
   Objective: Invest in enabling high-leverage technologies. * Target:
   Initiate the HEDS Technology/Commercialization program and establish a
   synergistic relationship with industry. Indicator is a successful
   response to the initial NASA Research Announcement, with a 50% cost
   share from industry, where appropriate. 1H32 PP HEDS-2 Goal: Expand
   Scientific Knowledge. Objective - In partnership with the scientific
   community, use the space environment to investigate chemical,
   biological and physical systems. * Target: Support an expanded,
   productive research community to include 975 investigations annually by
   2001. HEDS seeks to prepare and support a research community to take
   full advantage of research opportunities in the coming era of orbital
   research, including support for 975 investigations in 2001. 1H3 *
   Target: Conduct outstanding peer-reviewed and commercial research on
   STS 107 to advance knowledge in the fields of medicine, fundamental
   biology, biotechnology, fluid physics, materials processing and
   combustion. 1H4 * Target: Continue initial research on the
   International Space Station by conducting 6 to 10 investigations. 1H5
   Goal: Enable and establish a permanent and productive human presence in
   Earth orbit. Objective: Provide safe and affordable access to space. *
   Target: The Office of Space Flight will expedite a safety improvement
   program to ensure the continued safe operations of the Space Shuttle.
   The performance target is to have in place a Shuttle upgrade program
   that ensures the availability of a safe and reliable Shuttle system to
   support Space Station Assembly milestones and operations. The FY 2001
   indicators include completion of the Checkout and Launch Control System
   applications software for the Orbiter Processing Facilities. All safety
   improvements are planned to be in place by 2005. 1H6 * Target: The
   Office of Space Flight continues to invest in Space Shuttle operations.
   Investments include hardware production, ground processing, launch and
   landing operations, flight crew operations, training, logistics, and
   sustaining engineering. The performance target is to achieve 8 or fewer
   flight anomalies per mission. 1H7 The Shuttle program uses
   safety/reliability and stability/schedule indicators. The Space Flight
   Operations Contractor, United Space Alliance, is subject first to an
   incentive safety/reliability gate, after which come various
   stability/schedule indicators like the one presented here. The FY 2001
   indicator is to measure (post flight) the number of vehicle flight
   anomalies. * Target: Achieve 100% on-orbit mission success. This target
   will be measured against the customer's mission objectives and the
   post-flight reporting of completion of mission objectives. 1H30 PP
   HEDS-3 Objective: Deploy and use the ISS to advance scientific,
   exploration, engineering, and commercial objectives. * Target:
   Development, manufacture and test of the ISS vehicle elements are
   phased in conjunction with the launch and on-orbit assembly schedule.
   The performance target is to successfully complete the majority of the
   planned development schedules and milestones required to support the
   Multi-element Integration Testing (MEIT). 1H10 MEIT tests perform
   integration testing with several launch elements to increase on-orbit
   confidence. The FY 01 indicator will include completion of MEIT to
   include flight elements for assembly flights 8A through 12A. This will
   be measured by completion of five-planned test configurations. *
   Target: Deployment of the ISS occurs with on-orbit assembly over
   several years. Successful and timely deployment is dependent on the
   Shuttle and other international launch vehicles, and the provision of
   some elements and services from international partners and
   participants. The performance target is to successfully complete the
   majority of the ISS planned on-orbit activities such as delivery of
   mass to orbit and enhanced functionality. 1H11 FY01 indicators will
   include expansion of the capabilities of the ISS through launch and
   delivery of 180,000 lbs. of hardware and logistics to the ISS; and
   initiation and demonstration of ISS Extravehicular Activity (EVA)
   capability to support up to 30 EVAs annually from the U.S. Airlock.
   This will be measured by completion of a minimum of 5 EVAs from the ISS
   Airlock. * Target: Operations of the ISS occur as the vehicle is being
   developed and assembled. The performance target to successfully
   complete the majority of combined ISS planned operations schedules and
   milestones as represented by permanent human on- orbit operations. 1H12
   FY01 Indicators will include the presence of permanent human on-orbit
   operations with an estimated 8,000 crew hours dedicated to assembly,
   vehicle operations and payload operation. * Target: The conduct of
   research is an important objective of the ISS. During assembly, the ISS
   will add pressurized volume, experiment racks, facilities and
   unpressurized payload accommodations in support of research
   opportunities. The performance target is to successfully complete the
   majority of the planned research activities in support of initiation of
   on-orbit research opportunities. 1H13 FY 01 Indicators will include
   initiation of on-orbit research in the U.S. Laboratory focusing on
   early payload opportunities in the Human Research Facility (HRF-1) and
   multipurpose EXPRESS Racks. PP HEDS-4 * Target: The ISS program has
   undertaken a series of selected developments and support activities to
   enhance the robustness of the vehicle, enhance safety and reduce
   reliance on capabilities contributed by Russia. The performance target
   is to successfully complete no less than 85% of the planned Russian
   Program Assurance schedules and milestones required for the development
   of the Propulsion Module. 1H14 FY01 indicators will include initiation
   of Propulsion Module fabrication/assembly/integration and testing in
   preparation for launch in late FY 2002. This will be measured by
   completion of schedule milestones. * Target: Crew transportation and
   return for up to three crewmembers is planned to be provided by Russia
   throughout the life of the program. In order to further enhance ISS
   safety, NASA has initiated the Phase 1 development of a crew return
   vehicle (CRV) that could provide the U.S. crew return capability to
   support the emergency return of up to seven crew, the full crew
   complement planned for the ISS. A U.S. crew return capability is
   planned for deployment late in the ISS assembly sequence. The
   performance target is to successfully complete no less than 75% of the
   planned crew return capability schedules. FY01 indicators will include
   accomplishment of program schedule milestones for Phase 1 development
   of a crew return vehicle (CRV) that could provide the U.S. crew return
   capability. 1H15 Objective: Ensure the health, safety, and performance
   of humans living and working in space. * Target: Develop new biomedical
   and technological capabilities to facilitate living and working in
   space and return to Earth. HEDS will flight test a new method for
   reducing the risk of kidney stone formation and develop two new
   evidence-based countermeasure candidates ready for evaluation. 1H17 *
   Target: Demonstrate, in ground test, at least one technology that could
   reduce up to 25% of life support logistics over ISS baseline and
   release report of progress for review on the Internet. 1H18 * Target:
   Initiate implementation of the Bioastronautics Initiative by beginning
   a NASA/NCI collaboration and conducting a peer review of the National
   Space Biomedical Research Institute to assess expansion. 1H31
   Objective: Meet sustained space operations needs while reducing costs.
   * Target: Increase the percentage of the space operations budget
   allocated to acquisition of communications and data services from the
   commercial sector to 15% in FY 2001. The space Communications Program
   will conduct tasks that enable commercialization and will minimize
   investment in government infrastructure for which commercial
   alternatives are being developed. 1H20 PP HEDS-5 * Target: Achieve at
   least 95 percent of planned data delivery from space flight missions as
   documented in space, ground, deep space, and NASA integrated service
   networks performance metrics consistent with detailed program and
   project operations requirements in project service level agreements.
   1H21 Goal: Expand the Commercial Development of Space. Objective:
   Facilitate access to space for commercial researchers. * Target:
   Establish at least ten new, active industrial partnerships to research
   tomorrow's space products and improve industrial processes through
   NASA's Commercial Centers, and find opportunities for space
   experiments. 1H22 Objective: Foster commercial participation on the
   International Space Station. * Target: Foster commercial endeavors by
   reviewing and/or implementing new policies and plans, such as the Space
   Station resource pricing policy and intellectual property rights
   policy. Ensure that Space Station resources allocated to commercial
   research are utilized by commercial partners to develop commercial
   products and improve industrial processes. 1H23 Goal: Share the
   Experience and Discovery of human space flight. Objective: Increase the
   scientific, technological and academic achievement of the nation by
   sharing our knowledge, capabilities, and assets. * Target: Support
   participation in HEDS research. In 2001 HEDS will enable at least 50
   students to participate in commercial space flight and technologies
   research and provide 200 elementary and high school classrooms
   nationwide with electronic (multimedia/computer technologies) and
   printed materials that focus on activities in science, math and
   technology relating to life sciences and microgravity research and
   specifically written for students in grades K-12. In addition HEDS will
   complete a broadly based student competition on innovative design
   concepts that address HEDS technological challenges and complete a
   customer engagement plan. 1H26 Cross-cutting target * Target: Improve
   health of the NASA workforce. HEDS will develop and implement
   supervisor-specific training for the identification and management of
   stress in the work unit. Develop and implement training on techniques
   for coping with stress for the individual employee and begin a robust
   audit program of NASA Centers' occupational health programs, completing
   at least six (6) to ensure quality and continuous improvement of
   medical care and services including medical and environmental
   monitoring efforts, preventive services, emergency response capability,
   and clinical intervention capability. 1H29 PP HEDS-6 Internal
   Assessment Interim evaluation and monitoring of performance targets
   will be conducted as an element of regular meetings of the Office of
   Space Flight and HEDS Management Boards and the Board of Directors of
   the Office of Life and Microgravity Sciences and Applications. As a
   matter of NASA policy, relevant HEDS performance targets are included
   in the performance plans submitted to the Administrator by the
   Associate Administrator of the Office of Life and Microgravity Sciences
   and Applications, and the Associate Administrator of the Office of
   Space Flight. Final data collection, reporting and verification for
   inclusion in the Annual Performance Report will rely on several
   different processes depending on the particular Performance Target.
   Wherever possible, a specific tangible product has been identified for
   individual performance targets to strengthen the validation process.
   For many HEDS performance targets, (e.g. Space Shuttle in-flight
   anomalies, Space Station assembly milestones) verification of
   performance is straightforward and progress is monitored through
   regular management channels and reports. For targets which include
   references, investigators and/or peer reviewed publications, HEDS
   publishes, and makes available on line, an annual "Task Book and
   Bibliography" which includes lists of investigators, publications and
   research results. This database will be an essential source of data for
   evaluating performance against several targets. External Assessment To
   assist in evaluating those performance goals which are more difficult
   to associate with specific tangible products, HEDS will employ an
   annual external assessment process. HEDS has asked the Life and
   Microgravity Sciences and Applications subcommittee of the NASA
   Advisory Committee to review and evaluate performance on specific OLMSA
   targets an on an annual basis. An OSF Advisory Committee currently
   being formed will review and evaluate OSF performance targets. PP
   HEDS-7 HEDS FY01 Budget Category Space Station Space Shuttle Paylaod
   and ELV Support Space Operations Life and Microgravity Sciences HEDS
   Investments Research and Program Management Performance Target 1H1:
   Complete testing and delivery for spacecraft integration of experiments
   for the Mars Surveyor Program 2001 missions. X X 1H2: Complete initial
   next decade planning mission architecture studies. X 1H32: Initiate the
   HEDS Technology/Commercialization program and establish a synergistic
   relationship with industry. X 1H3: Support an expanded, productive
   research community to include 975 investigations by 2001. X 1H4:
   Conduct outstanding peer-reviewed and commercial research on STS 107 to
   advance knowledge in the fields of medicine, fundamental biology,
   biotechnology, X fluid physics, materials processing and combustion.
   1H5: Continue initial research on the International Space Station by
   conducting 6 to 10 investigations. X 1H6: The Office of Space Flight
   will expedite a safety improvement program to ensure the continued safe
   operations of the Space Shuttle that ensures the availability of a safe
   and reliable Shuttle system to support Space Station X Assembly
   milestones and operations. 1H7: Achieve 8 or fewer flight anomalies per
   mission. X 1H30: Achieve 100% on-orbit mission success X 1H10:
   Successfully complete the majority of the planned development schedules
   and milestones required to support the Multi-element Integration
   Testing X PP HEDS-8 HEDS FY01 Budget Category Space Station Space
   Shuttle Paylaod and ELV Support Space Operations Life and Microgravity
   Sciences HEDS Investments Research and Program Management Performance
   Target 1H11: Successfully complete the majority of the ISS planned
   on-orbit activities such as delivery of mass to orbit and enhanced
   functionality. X 1H12: Successfully complete the majority of combined
   ISS planned operations schedules and milestones as represented by
   indicators of permanent human on- X orbit operations. 1H13:
   Successfully complete the majority of the planned research activities
   in support of initiation of on-orbit research opportunities. X X 1H14:
   Successfully complete no less than 85% of the planned Russian Program
   Assurance schedules and milestones required for the development of the
   X Propulsion Module. 1H15: Successfully complete no less than 75% of
   the planned crew return capability schedules. FY01 indicators will
   include accomplishment of program X schedule milestones for Phase 1
   development of a crew return vehicle that could provide U.S. crew
   return capability. 1H17: Develop new biomedical and technological
   capabilities to facilitate living and working in space and safe return
   to Earth. X 1H18: Demonstrate, in ground test, at least one technology
   that could reduce up to 25% of life support logistics over ISS baseline
   and release report of progress X for review on the Internet. PP HEDS-9
   HEDS FY01 Budget Category Space Station Space Shuttle Paylaod and ELV
   Support Space Operations Life and Microgravity Sciences HEDS
   Investments Research and Program Management Performance Target 1H31:
   Initiate implementation of the Bioastronautics Initiative by beginning
   a NASA/NCI collaboration and conducting a peer review of the National
   Space X Biomedical Research Institute to assess expansion. 1H20:
   Increase the percent
