http://mosaic.larc.nasa.gov/news_and_events/news&events.htm

                            helicopter drop test


                    skip left nav NASA logo
                                  News and Events Page
                                  News Releases
                                  Publication Fact Sheet
                                  Traveling Exhibits
                                  Speaker Bureau
                                  Sigma Series Lectures
                    Photos and Animation
                                  Conferences
                                  Home
                    FOIA



   skip top nav About Us Research News and Events Education Images
   Business with LaRC Reports and Publications Site Index

   News and Events

   Read About Our Latest Research Results

      Welcome to NASA Langley's media and public outreach offices. We serve
      both the national and international media with news releases, fact
      sheets, photos, video and animation products. We also inform the
      general public about NASA Langley programs through our publications,
      speakers bureau, traveling exhibits and public inquiry center.
      News Releases
      Browse our news releases for the latest results of NASA Langley's
      aeronautics, space technology, earth sciences, and materials and
      structures research. News releases are available from 1995 to the
      present.

      Publications/Fact Sheets
      Search fact sheets and other publications about many of NASA Langley's
      research programs. From this link, you can also search NASA-wide for
      hundreds of other electronic publications.

      Traveling Exhibits
      View NASA Langley's wide array of traveling exhibits. All exhibits are
      available for loan.

      Speaker Bureau
      Arrange for a guest speaker from the NASA Langley Speakers Bureau. This
      volunteer organization is comprised of civil servants, contractors and
      retirees who speak to the public about NASA Langley's research and its
      value to the Nation.

      Lectures
      Colloquium and Sigma Series lectures, discussing the latest research in
      science and technology, are usually presented every month. Colloquium
      lectures are designed for NASA Langley employees and contractors and
      are generally not open to the public. Colloquium lectures are usually
      repeated, however, that evening at the Virginia Air and Space Center in
      Hampton, Va.

      Photos & Animation
      Access selected electronic photos & animation from more than 80 years
      of research at NASA Langley. From this link, you can also search
      NASA-wide for thousands of electronic images.

      Workshops
      NASA Langley hosts dozens of conferences, workshops and symposiums each
      year.
   manditory area for keeping the table dimensions
   Research Section Aeronautics Earth Science Space Technology Structures
                                                               and Materials

   Privacy Statement | Feedback | Freedom of Information Act | 2003
   Centennial of Flight | Researcher News online | Language Assistance
   Plan (LAP)
   NASA Responsible Official: Cheryl Cleghorn | Page Curator: Bob Allen |
   Date Last Updated: 01/29/2002
