http://fire.pppl.gov/soft_Ulrickson.pdf

   Physics Basis for the Fusion Ignition Research Experiment (FIRE) Plasma
   Facing Components* M.A Ulrickson1, J.N. Brooks2, D.E. Driemeyer3, A.
   Hassenein2, C. E. Kessel4, T. Rognlien5, J. C. Wesley6, and D. M.
   Meade4 1Sandia National Laboratory, Albuquerque, NM 87185, USA 2Argonne
   National Laboratory, Argonne, IL 60439 USA 3The Boeing Corp., St.
   Louis, MO 63166 USA 4Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, Princeton, NJ
   08543, USA 5Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA
   94551, USA 6General Atomics, San Diego, CA 92186, USA Abstract A design
   study of a Fusion Ignition Research Experiment (FIRE) is underway to
   investigate and assess near term opportunities for advancing the
   scientific understanding of self-heated fusion plasmas. The emphasis
   for the FIRE program is on understanding the behavior of plasmas
   dominated by alpha heating (Q 5). Study activities have focused on the
   technical evaluation of a compact, high field, highly shaped tokamak.
   One of the key issues for the design is to find suitable plasma facing
   components (PFCs). We have investigated a variety of plasma edge and
   divertor conditions ranging from reduced recycling high heat flux
   conditions (attached) to reduced heat flux detached operation. The
   inner divertor detaches easily while impurities must be added to the
   outer divertor to achieve detachment. The outer divertor and private
   space baffle will have to be actively cooled. The plasma-facing surface
   of the divertor is tungsten bonded to a CuCrZr heat sink. The remainder
   of the PFCs are beryllium coated copper attached to the vacuum vessel.
   Plasma current disruptions impose strong constraints on the design.
   Appreciable PFC surface melting and evaporation and onset of "plasma
   shielding" are expected. The forces induced on the PFC due to
   disruptions determine the size of the attachment of the PFC to the
   vacuum vessel. 1 Introduction A design study of a Fusion Ignition
   Research Experiment (FIRE) [1] is underway to investigate and assess
   near term opportunities for advancing the scientific understanding of
   self-heated fusion plasmas. The emphasis is on understanding the
   behavior of plasmas dominated by alpha heating (Q 5) that are sustained
   for a duration comparable to characteristic plasma time scales ( 10 E,
   ~ skin). FIRE will be a stepping stone between present tokamaks and an
   attractive Engineering Test Reactor. The programmatic mission of FIRE
   is to attain, explore, understand and optimize alpha-dominated plasmas
   to provide knowledge for the design of attractive magnetic fusion
   energy systems. The program strategy is to access the alpha-dominated
   regimes with confidence using the present tokamak data base (e.g.,
   Elmy-H-mode, 0.75 Greenwald density) while maintaining the flexibility
   for accessing and exploring advanced tokamak modes at lower fusion
   power for longer duration in later stages of the experimental program.
   A major goal is to develop a design concept that can meet these
   objectives with a construction cost in the range of $1B. Activities
   have focused on the technical evaluation of a compact, high-field,
   highly-shaped tokamak with parameters: R0 = 2m, a = 0.525m, 95 1.8, 95
   0.4, q95 > 3, double-null-divertor, BT(R0) = 10T, and IP = 6.44 MA and
   fusion-burn flat-top time ~ 20s (30 E and >1 skin). One of the key
   issues for the design is to find suitable plasma facing components. We
   have investigated a variety of plasma edge and divertor conditions
   ranging from reduced recycling high heat flux conditions (attached) to
   reduced heat flux detached operation using the UEDGE boundary and
   divertor modeling code. The predicted peak heat flux on the divertor is
   5 to 25 MW/m2 with the higher values corresponding to attached
   operation. The inner divertor easily enters detached operation while
   impurities have to be added to the outer divertor to achieve
   detachment. The outer divertor and private flux region baffle will have
   to be actively cooled. The plasma- facing surface of the divertor is
   tungsten bonded to a CuCrZr heat sink. The remainder of the PFCs are
   beryllium coated copper attached to the vacuum vessel. Plasma current
   disruptions also impose strong constraints on the design. The energy
   deposition on the plasma facing components ranges from 4 to 96 Work
   supported by DOE Contract # DE-AC02-76CHO3073. 1 1 MJ/m2. Appreciable
   PFC surface melting and evaporation and onset of `plasma shielding' is
   expected. Surface melting and evaporation have been studied using the
   A*THERMAL and SPLASH codes. The forces induced on the PFC due to
   disruptions determine the configuration and size of the attachment of
   the PFC to the vacuum vessel. We will discuss the impact of the variety
   of physics operating conditions on the PFC design. 2 Divertor Design
   Requirements The FIRE device is designed for high power density and
   advanced physics operating modes. Accordingly, the divertor must
   accommodate the high elongation and high triangularity plasma needed
   for advanced physics modes. Owing to space constraints, the divertor
   geometry must be relatively open with short distances from the x-point
   to the plate and considerable spreading of the field lines. Connection
   lengths are short and the scrape-off layer (SOL) thickness is small.
   Without a radiative divertor the heat loads are high ~25 MW/m2. The
   divertor plate geometry is shown in Figure 1. The outer divertor plate
   is at an angle of 30° with respect to the flux lines. The inclination
   is driven by the flux surface spreading close to the X-point. The inner
   divertor plate is nearly normal to the field lines. The slot between
   the outer divertor plate and the baffle provides for pumping plasma
   exhaust particles. Gas Pumping Slot Outer Divertor Module Baffle
   Coolant Supply Manifold Plasma X- Point Coolant Return Manifold Inner
   Divertor Copper Passive Module Plate Figure 1. FIRE Divertor showing
   the passive plates, inner divertor plate, baffle and outer divertor
   plate. The FIRE device is a very compact machine with high current and
   high magnetic field. The connection length along the field lines from
   the outer mid-plane to the divertor plate determines how much time is
   available for plasma energy to diffuse across the field while being
   transported to the divertor. The shorter the connection length, the
   narrower the scrape-off length. Using the magnetic field data from the
   equilibrium code, the connection length is 13.1 m for FIRE. Of that
   length, 7.4 m is from the mid-plane to the divertor throat and 5.7 m in
   the divertor. These distances are to be compared to 125 m total length
   in ITER. Accordingly, we expect a narrower scrape-off-layer in FIRE. 2
   2 3 Operating Modes Divertor component power flows were considered for
   four cases: (1) the baseline D-T operating mode (10 T, 6.6 MA, 18 s)
   with a plasma heating power of 70 MW; (2) an advanced physics D-D
   operating mode (4 T, 2 MA, 215 s) with a plasma heating power of 16 MW;
   (3) a long-burn D-T mode (8 T, 5.5 MA, 31 s) with a plasma heating of
   45 MW; and (4) high field operation (12T, 8MA, 12s) with plasma heating
   of 75 MW. Assumptions concerning the distribution of these total
   exhaust powers are: 20% is radiated from the main plasma, 20% is
   radiated from the scrape off layer with all being deposited on the
   baffle and divertor throat, 20% is deposited on the inner divertor
   plate, and the remainder goes to the outer divertor plate. 4 Edge
   Plasma Modeling The UEDGE code [2] was used to calculate the expected
   edge conditions in FIRE. Four Cases having various combinations of
   thermal and particle diffusivity were examined. For all cases, the
   power into the scrape-off layer was 28 MW and the separatrix density
   was 1.5 x 1020 /m3 with a wall recycling coefficient of 1.0. Three
   different values of the particle and heat diffusivity were considered.
   The parameters in Case C duplicate edge plasma data from existing
   machines the best and were the conditions used for the ITER design. The
   divertor plate was kept perpendicular to the field lines for most
   cases. Case D is the same as Case C with the divertor plate tilted as
   in the baseline design and with 1021 particles/sec pumping. The
   conditions for the various Cases are shown in Table 1. Table 1.
   Transport parameters used for modeling the FIRE edge plasma. Case
   Description Thermal diffusivity (m2/s) Particle diffusivity (m2/s) A
   High Conductivity 1.5 1.0 B ITER Conductivity 0.5 1.0 C Bohm like
   diffusivity 0.5 Dbohm + 0.1 D Tilted plates and pumping 0.5 Dbohm + 0.1
   NOTE: Dbohm = Te/16 eB The results are shown in Table 2. The peak heat
   flux is less than 25 MW/m2 for all cases. The outer divertor is not
   detached under any of the conditions considered. Additional gas will
   have to be added to get the outer divertor to detach. Table 2. Results
   of UEDGE modeling of the FIRE edge plasma Case Tem (eV) m (cm) Tep (eV)
   nep (1021/m3) Qp (MW/m2) p (cm) A 106 0.8 1.5 61 5.7 6.5 B 152 0.6 15
   44 25 1.8 C 138 0.7 14 43 23 2.3 D 138 0.7 13 52 19 2.5 The UEDGE Code
   has been used to study the effect of adding beryllium only or beryllium
   and neon to the edge plasma to stimulate detachment of the plasma in
   the outer divertor channel. The divertor plates were placed at the
   proper angle relative to the field lines for these calculations. The
   particle diffusivity and thermal conductivity had to be reduced on the
   small radius side of the plasma to achieve a single solution. One
   expects that the transport will be reduced on the small radius side of
   the plasma 3 3 because of the good curvature in that region (this is
   consistent with the observations of less power transport to the inner
   divertor in a double null configuration). The inner divertor is easily
   detached. With no impurity addition to the inner divertor the heat flux
   to the plate is about 1 MW/m2 from particle transport and 1.8 MW/m2
   from hydrogen radiation. We find that the maximum heat flux on the
   inner divertor is 3 MW/m2. The results for the outer divertor with the
   angled plates are very similar to the results with the plate normal to
   the field lines (26 MW/m2). When Be is added to the divertor region,
   the peak heat flux is reduced to 20 MW/m2 with about 5 MW/m2 of
   radiated power that peaks at a different location from the peak
   particle heat flux. There was no detachment with the addition of Be
   alone. With Ne injection, the plasma could be detached from the
   divertor plate. For 4.1 Pa m3/s (31 Torr l/s) Ne injection there was no
   detachment but the peak heat flux was reduced to 15 MW/m2. With 4.7 Pa
   m3/s (35 Torr l/s) Ne injection, the plasma did detach from the
   divertor plate but the solution evolved toward an x-point MARFE. It is
   clear that the amount of Ne injected into the divertor needs to be
   controlled. The peak heat load on the outer divertor or baffle is 6
   MW/m2 for the radiative solution. 4.1 Disruption Heat Loads The
   database on tokamak disruptions [3] has been used to estimate the
   energy deposition on the PFCs. Two phases have been identified for
   disruptions; the thermal quench phase when the plasma stored energy is
   lost to the divertor and the current quench phase when the plasma
   current decays and the magnetic stored energy is lost to the first
   wall. We have assumed the plasma-thermal energy is 33 MJ and that all
   of this energy is deposited on the divertor plates. There is a wide
   range of possible parameters describing disruption energy deposition,
   so the energy deposition is specified as a range of possible values.
   The wide range arises because of incomplete understanding of disruption
   deposition on existing devices, variation in the deposition observed,
   and uncertainties in the extrapolation to FIRE conditions. The values
   specified for the disruption analysis are shown in Table 3. The low-end
   and high-end columns represent the extreme of all the uncertainties.
   The column labeled most likely is what we believe to be the expected
   upper limit on energy deposition. The reference column is what we
   expect for a typical full power disruption. Table 3. Disruption energy
   deposition on the divertor plates Low End Most Likely Reference High
   End Inner Divertor 8 MJ/m2 31 MJ/m2 13.4 MJ/m2 96 MJ/m2 Outer Divertor
   4MJ/m2 16 MJ/m2 6.8 MJ/m2 48 MJ/m2 The magnetic stored energy is
   radiated to the first wall during the current decay. The stored
   magnetic energy in the FIRE reference plasma is 35 MJ. The expected
   minimum current decay time is 2-6 ms. The average energy deposition on
   the first wall is 0.5 MJ/m2. For a toroidal peaking factor of 2:1, the
   peak energy deposition is 0.67 MJ/m2. This is enough energy to melt
   0.12 mm of Be if all the energy goes into melting. Thermal conduction
   and radiation will reduce the amount of melting. This reduction should
   give an adequate lifetime for the first wall but further modeling is
   required to confirm the details of the melt depth and possible loss
   mechanisms. 4.2 Disruption Forces The 2 ms duration of the current
   disruption was used to estimate the eddy currents induced in the
   divertor structures for the case of a stationary plasma disruption. The
   maximum current decay rate is assumed to be 3 MA/ms. The L/R time for
   the divertor plates is longer than the disruption time. Purely
   inductive solutions for the modules yield forces of 1.9 MN (outer) and
   2.8 MN (inner). These forces determine the size of the divertor
   supports and backplate. 5 Analysis of Erosion The erosion of the W
   plasma facing material due to normal plasma operation has been assessed
   using the REDEP/WBC erosion code package [4]. The plasma temperature
   and density profiles, and charged and neutral particle fluxes to the
   divertor plates from UEDGE/DEGAS2 [5, 6] were used as input to
   REDEP/WBC to calculate the sputtered tungsten transport. The codes
   include the sputtered atom velocity 4 4 distribution, electron impact
   ionization, Lorentz force motion, magnetic and Debye dual- structure
   sheath, impurity-plasma charge changing and velocity changing
   collisions. The results (for attached plasmas) predict essentially zero
   net erosion of the divertor plate and no plasma contamination. This is
   due to the short ionization mean-free path for W (~ 25 µm) and high
   sheath acceleration and/or collisional induced flow back to the plate.
   The gross sputtering (~ 3 nm/s) is mostly due to impurity sputtering
   (due to 0.1% O impurity) and self-sputtering. Analysis is underway to
   compute erosion of the Be wall surfaces and the subsequent mixed Be/W
   divertor surface, and for other plasma cases. 5.1 Disruption Erosion
   The HEIGHTS computer code package [7] was used to model the erosion of
   plasma facing components owing to disruption energy deposition. The
   code package includes the effect of plasma-target interactions,
   plasma-debris interactions, photon radiation and transport, and
   plasma-melt layer interaction. A typical result for 10MJ/m2 deposition
   in 1 ms shows that melting starts about 10 µs after the disruption
   thermal quench starts, and vaporization starts about 20 µs later. Once
   vaporization starts there is a strong reduction in the heat flux
   because of interaction between the plasma and the atoms in the vapor
   (vapor shielding). Because of vapor shielding, the amount of melted and
   eroded material is only weakly dependent on the energy deposited. The
   amount of vaporized material increases by about a factor of two due to
   a ten- fold increase in energy deposition. The melt layer is predicted
   to be 150 to 200 µm thick and 2-4 µm is predicted to evaporate due to a
   disruption. The loss of material due to disruptions determines the
   lifetime of the divertor plates. 6 Conclusions The challenge of
   designing plasma-facing components for a compact, high-power density
   tokamak with high elongation and triangularity is the same problem that
   must be solved for a tokamak fusion reactor. We have shown that the
   requirements can be met by using tungsten and beryllium as plasma
   facing materials. The outer divertor and baffle must be actively
   cooled, but the inner divertor and first wall only need to be cooled by
   conduction to the vacuum vessel liner. The lifetime of the divertor
   plates will be determined by disruption erosion. Further study is
   required to quantify the likely lifetime. References [1] D.M. Meade,
   R.J. Thome, N.R. Sauthoff, et al., Physics Basis for the Fusion
   Ignition Research Experiment (FIRE), Presented at the EPS Meeting, May
   2000. [2] G.R. Smith, P.N. Brown, R.B. Campbell, D.A. Knoll, P.R.
   McHugh, M.E. Rensink and T.D. Rognlien, Techniques and Results of
   Tokamak-Edge Simulation, J. Nucl. Mater. 220-222 (1995) pp. 1024-1027
   [3] S. Mirnov, J. Wesley, N. Fujisawa, et al., Chapter 3, MHD
   Stability, Operation Limits and Disruptions, Nucl. Fusion 39 (1999)
   pp.2251-2389 [4] J.N. Brooks, Nuc. Tech./Fusion 4 (1983) p.33;
   Fus./Tech. 18 (1990) p.239.; Phys. Fluids 8 (1990) p.1858. [5 ] D.P.
   Stotler, C.F.F. Karney, M.E. Rensink, T.D. Rognlien, Coupling of
   Parallelized DEGAS2 and UEDGE Codes, Contrib. To Plasma Physics 40
   (2000) pp. 221-6 [6] DEGAS2 output- D. Alman (UIUC) Private
   Communication (1999). [7] A. Hassanein, I. Konkashbaev, Comprehensive
   Physical Models and Simulation Package For Plasma/Material Interactions
   During Plasma Instabilities, J. Nucl. Mater. 273 (1999) pp. 326-333 5 5
