http://www.foh.dhhs.gov/public/cism/copingtips.pdf

   A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others Cope With Grief } Just as despair
   can come to one only from other human beings, hope, too, can be given
   to one only by other human beings.~ -Elie Weisel }Honest listening is
   one of the best medicines we can offer the dying and the bereaved.~
   -Jean Cameron This publication is for general informational purposes
   only and is not intended to provide any user with specific authority,
   advice or recommendations. Copyright © 2001 LifeCare®, Inc. All rights
   reserved. LifeCare®, Inc. is a worldwide leader in Life Event
   ManagementSM Services. http://www.lifecare.com Printed on recycled
   paper. C Cover Photo by: © Jon Feingersh/The Stock Market "The friend
   who can be silent with us in a moment of despair or confusion, who can
   stay with us in an hour of grief and bereavement, who can tolerate not
   know- ing, not curing, not healing and face with us the reality of our
   powerlessness, that is the friend who cares..." -Henri Nouwen, from Out
   of Solitude If someone you know has lost a loved one, you may need to
   provide help and support as he or she grieves. It's natural to want to
   offer compassion and sympathy to some- one who has suffered a loss.
   However, you may not know how to help someone else who is in such
   obvious pain. While not everyone wants or needs the same kind of
   support, this guide provides you with suggestions on how to support a
   grieving friend or family member. If you are also grieving a death
   while trying to support a loved one, you may need addi- tional help.
   Please refer to the companion piece to this guide, A LifeCare® Guide to
   Grief and Bereavement, for information on managing your own grief. Page
   1 A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others Cope With Grief Supporting
   Someone Who Is Grieving Grief is a natural process that affects people
   when they experience a loss-of a relative or friend; human or animal.
   Grieving people most often need others to simply listen and care, not
   offer a lot of advice. If you are trying to be supportive to someone
   who is grieving, remember that the emotions he or she is experiencing
   are universal, and the intensity and duration of these feelings will
   vary by individual- they cannot be rushed. You may not be able to ease
   another person's pain, but you can help him or her manage this
   difficult experience. The following suggestions may help: Tips for
   Helping a Loved One Mention the person who has died, and acknowledge
   your awareness of the loss. Continue to do this as time goes on, not
   just right after the death. Many people avoid mentioning the person who
   has died, fearing it will remind the grieving person of his or her
   pain. Often, people avoid the topic because they feel uncomfortable or
   helpless, but behaving as if you don't remember or are unaware of your
   loved one's pain often leaves him or her feeling very alone. Listen to
   your loved one. A grieving person may need to tell his or her story
   again and again as part of the grieving process. The most important
   thing you can offer someone who is grieving is your ability to listen
   with- out judgment. A good rule to follow is to listen 80 percent of
   the time and talk 20 percent. Remember, the way you can most help
   someone is by communicating a willingness to stay with him or her
   despite the pain. Insist that your loved one see a doctor if he or she
   exhibits signs of depression. Intense grief can lead to depression. If
   your loved one seems unusually depressed or withdrawn, suggest that he
   or she seek profession- al help. Some employers offer an Employee
   Assistance Program (EAP), a counseling service to help workers resolve
   problems; encourage your loved one to find out if his or her
   organization offers this benefit. See the next section, "Symptoms
   Associated With Grief," for more information on when to suggest that
   your loved one seek help. Encourage your loved one to make wise
   choices. Urge the person who is grieving to pay attention to his or her
   own needs, and make choic- es accordingly. You can do this during his
   or her decision-making process by talking through various scenarios, or
   advising him or her to take the time needed to make important
   decisions. Offer practical help; don't wait to be asked. Grieving takes
   a lot of energy, making the tasks and demands of daily living feel
   overwhelming at times. Help by bringing over dinner, offering to do the
   shopping or cleaning, baby-sitting, gardening, etc. Make specific
   offers several times, and encourage your loved one to take you up on
   your offers. Avoid phras- es such as, "Let me know if I can help."
   Usually, he or she won't let you know for fear of imposing on you. Be
   direct with your offers and say, for example, "Let me cook you dinner
   tomorrow," or "I'd like to watch the kids tonight; why don't you take a
   break?" Page 2 Remember that grieving is a long process. The person you
   care about may be grieving for a long time. Several months or more
   after the death, he or she may actually be feeling the loss more
   acutely, and much of his or her support system will have backed off.
   This is when your loved one may need your support the most. Birthdays,
   holidays and other events may also evoke strong feelings for your
   grieving loved one. Offer your companionship. Your presence can be
   comforting to a griev- ing loved one; you don't have to do anything
   special. Often, grieving peo- ple just do not want to be alone. Don't
   minimize the loss. Be careful not to say, "I know exactly how you
   feel." This can minimize your loved one's unique feelings. If you have
   been through the loss of someone dear to you, you know how you felt,
   but you don't know just how the grieving person feels now. Instead, use
   statements such as, "I know this is difficult," "I know how hard it was
   for me when my mother died," or some other statement that is heartfelt
   and accurate, but leaves room for the uniqueness of your loved one's
   experience. Encourage your loved one to share his or her feelings.
   Avoid saying things like, "Be strong for..." or "Don't cry." This sends
   the message that you are uncomfortable with your loved one's intense
   feelings and, there- fore, you will leave him or her emotionally alone.
   Since most people feel somewhat overwhelmed by the intensity and
   unfamiliarity of grief, they may be worried that they will be unable to
   cope, so these phrases may in fact reinforce their fears rather than
   help. Instead, encourage your loved one by saying, "It's okay to cry,"
   or "You don't have to be so strong." Help your loved one create new
   traditions/rituals/activities. Because it is so difficult to deal with
   change, help your loved one re-engage in life. For example, if your
   loved one used to go for morning walks with the person who passed away,
   offer to spend mornings walking together or engaging in a new activity.
   Holidays and other events filled with tradition can also be especially
   hard to deal with; try to help your loved one discov- er new ways to
   experience these events. At the same time, he or she should be
   encouraged to cherish the memories and/or traditions associat- ed with
   the person who has passed away. Give advice cautiously. Avoid offering
   advice with phrases such as, "You should..." or "You need to...." Only
   the person who is grieving knows what is right for him or her. Often,
   those grieving are told, "You need to get out more," "You shouldn't be
   alone," or "You should get rid of his clothes; you have too many
   reminders." Again, the message to your loved one is that you think he
   or she should not be grieving, and this message may increase, not
   decrease, his or her sense of isolation. Instead, give advice that
   encourages the grieving person to trust him or herself and make choices
   based on his or her needs, rather than on what others think he or she
   should be doing or feeling. Page 3 A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others
   Cope With Grief Symptoms Associated With Grief Following a loss, your
   loved one will inevitably experience a variety of physical and
   emotional reactions to his or her grief (as described on the following
   pages). These are all a normal part of the grieving process, and each
   person's reactions will be individual and unique (i.e., they will vary
   in duration and intensity). However, if these reactions become severe
   and interfere with your loved one's ability to function on a daily
   basis, you should insist that he or she seek professional help from a
   doctor or licensed therapist. Physical symptoms-These include shortness
   of breath, headaches, nausea, changes in appetite (either a loss or an
   extreme increase), insomnia and fatigue. Intense grief also compromises
   the immune system, so your loved one may get sick more often and for
   longer periods of time. Note-If your loved one is having new, sudden or
   extreme physical symptoms, such as chest pain, consult a physician.
   Denial-Shock and disbelief are natural reactions to the news of a loss.
   Denying a loved one's death is a coping mechanism that allows people to
   get through the first few days of grief. Denial (and the resulting
   numbness) may help your loved one process what has happened and accept
   the reality of the loss. Sadness-Most people expect to feel sad
   immediately after someone's death. But your loved one may feel sadder
   as time goes on, especially once he or she resumes his or her daily
   routine; at this point, he or she may acutely feel the absence of the
   person who has died. Your loved one may also feel sad if his or her
   support system of friends and family has become more distant. If your
   loved one has been experi- encing extreme sadness for an extended
   period of time, he or she may be suffering from depression and should
   seek professional help. Signs of Depression Extreme grief may cause a
   chemical change in a person's body that can lead to depression. If you
   recognize any of the following warning signs in your loved
   one-especially if he or she has been suffering for an extended period
   of time-encourage him or her to consult a doctor or a mental health
   professional for help: Feelings of intense depression, hopelessness or
   apathy Decreased interest and participation in activities he or she
   previously enjoyed Inability to handle routine life and work tasks
   Noticeable physical changes, such as extreme weight loss or gain,
   stomach problems, severe headaches, sleep changes, inattention to
   personal hygiene/appearance, etc. Suicidal feelings (if your loved one
   mentions suicide-even in a joking manner-take him or her seriously and
   seek immediate professional help) Anger-Being angry at a higher power,
   friends, relatives-and even the person who died-is a very common
   reaction to grief. Try to help your loved one learn healthy ways to
   release his or her anger, such as writing in a journal, talking to
   friends or exercising. Positive thinking also helps; for example, if
   the person died of cancer, encourage your loved one to volunteer with
   cancer support/research groups. Page 4 If your loved one is extremely
   angry for an extended period of time, he or she might not be coping
   well with grief. If he or she has fits of rage and lashes out at
   others, or if he or she begins to act violently by hurting him or
   herself or others (especially a spouse or children), encourage your
   loved one to seek professional help immediately. Anxiety-Since death is
   an occurrence that cannot be controlled, many people react by feeling
   anxious, restless and unusually nervous. Your loved one may be feel-
   ing especially vulnerable and helpless, thinking that something else
   bad will happen to him or her. Help your loved one calm down by taking
   deep, relaxing breaths; focusing on pleasant (not fearful or anxious)
   thoughts; and reducing worry. Lack of concentration-This is one of the
   most common symptoms of grief. Your loved one may seem more confused
   than usual, and he or she may become forgetful or easily distracted. A
   degree of preoccupation is normal, so when your loved one is having
   trouble concentrating, be patient; suggest that he or she focus on his
   or her feelings, and return to the task at hand when he or she feels
   ready. Your loved one should also be careful not to get involved with
   too many new projects or commit- ments. Altered dreams-Dreams are often
   a combination of events from the past, current experiences, fears,
   hopes and anxieties. Sometimes, dreams are a signal from the
   subconscious mind that time is needed for healing. When your loved one
   has an especially strange dream or a nightmare, encourage him or her to
   discuss it with you or another friend or family member. If the dreams
   persist-or become more vivid and/or frightening-encourage your loved
   one to seek professional help from a physician or licensed therapist.
   Guilt-Guilt is a common reaction to grief, often making a person feel
   like he or she could have made things better or done something to keep
   the deceased person alive. Your loved one may feel guilt over
   unresolved conflicts, or have regrets about things he or she said (or
   didn't say) to the deceased. Some people may also feel bad if they
   weren't able to be with the deceased at the time of death. If this is
   the case, remind your loved one that death is out of our control and
   that he or she did everything possible at the time. Relief-If the
   deceased person was sick for a long time or if his or her suffering was
   significant, your loved one may experience a sense of relief at the
   death. Reassure your loved one that feeling relieved does not mean he
   or she didn't love the deceased; it is natural to be glad that a
   person's pain and suffering has ended. Hopelessness-Your loved one may
   feel a sense of hopelessness and feel that his or her current state
   (physical, mental, social or spiritual) is beyond repair. These feel-
   ings generally dissipate over time. Your loved one will gradually
   develop a sense of hope as he or she begins to experience life again;
   he or she will have good portions of days, then eventually entire good
   days. There will undoubtedly be rough times along the way (especially
   birthdays, anniversaries, holidays, etc.), but it's important that your
   loved one remain focused on the good times ahead. For more detailed
   information on symptons associated with grief, please refer to A
   LifeCare® Guide to Grief and Bereavement. Page 5 A LifeCare® Guide to
   Helping Others Cope With Grief Helping a Co-Worker When grief enters
   the workplace, complications may arise because the demands of most
   businesses make it difficult to allow time for comforting and grief.
   Paid bereavement leave is often limited (your co-worker should check
   with your Human Resources department regarding your company's policy),
   and employees may return to work before they are emotionally ready.
   Many of the previous suggestions may still apply to a co-worker who has
   experi- enced a loss, but since you may not be as involved in your
   co-worker's life away from work, it's important to consider the
   following information: If your co-worker notified you of his or her
   loss, inquire about what details he or she would like you to give out
   to other co-workers. Find out if your co- worker would appreciate
   receiving flowers or a fruit basket; you might even make a donation to
   a charitable organization or support group in the name of your
   co-worker's loved one. Pass around a card for others in the workplace
   to sign. When your co-worker returns to work, realize how dramatically
   his or her life may have changed. The effects on your co-worker's
   professional behavior may be significant and varied. A grieving
   co-worker may act eager to be away from the grief, to bury him or
   herself in work and the daily routine. This should not, however, signal
   that your co-worker is completely healed. Try to understand that the
   co-worker may not be able to focus completely on work for a long time.
   With your manager's help, evaluate how much your co- worker can handle,
   and offer to share the workload and pull together as a team to help
   your co-worker get back on track. Tips for Helping a Co-Worker If a
   co-worker is grieving the loss of a loved one, you will probably want
   to approach him or her to express your condolences. If you are good
   friends, you may want to say something more meaningful about your
   co-worker's loss or just to offer support. However, there may be times
   when everything you think to say sounds wrong in your head-and it will
   probably be worse if the words actually leave your mouth. At these
   moments, it is simply best to say nothing. Even though you may feel
   awkward or embarrassed at times, remember that friends and co-workers
   can be a significant source of support to those who have recently
   experienced a loss. The following steps will help to show your
   co-worker that you care and want to be supportive. You may want to:
   Become involved in the re-entry process, which occurs when a person
   returns to work after a loss. Help your colleague manage the transition
   back to work by keeping connected with him or her. A friendly voice-in
   person or over the telephone-is always welcome. Ask your company's
   Human Resources department how you can help. Page 6 Helping Children
   Cope With Grief and Death Stay in touch. Stop by your co-worker's desk
   or office and ask how he or she is doing. A hug, a gentle touch or a
   meaningful look will give comfort. Acknowledge your co-worker's grief
   and offer your support and concern. There are no magic words to take
   away the pain. Saying things like, "I was thinking about you," or "I'm
   so sorry" will express your feelings honestly. Be patient with your
   co-worker as he or she tries to manage his or her grief. Offer help
   with practical tasks such as driving, making a phone call, preparing a
   meal or running an errand. Be available for conversation on your
   co-worker's terms. An open-ended question, such as "How are you really
   doing?" or "How is it for you today?" will invite your colleague to
   talk as much as she or he wants. Be sensitive about pushing your
   co-worker to talk before he or she is ready. Everybody grieves in their
   own way and at their own pace. Allow your co-worker to take as much
   time as necessary. Listen. You may have concerns about your co-worker's
   ability to concen- trate on work, and whether he or she will want to
   talk about the loss. If your co-worker wants to talk, take a break for
   a few minutes and listen. Ask simple questions. By doing so, you will
   express interest in what your co-worker needs to say. Asking detailed
   questions about what happened usually comes across as intrusive. If
   your co-worker wants to talk in depth about the event or his or her
   feelings, just listen. Allow your co-worker to repeat the details many
   times-this is an important part of healing. Share memories. If you knew
   the co-worker's loved one (even if only through stories), talk about
   the good times. Feel free to mention the name of the person who died;
   it's important to acknowledge his or her existence. Choose your words
   carefully. Say, "I care about you"-not "I know how you feel." Clichés
   like "It was God's will" or positive statements such as "Now he's out
   of pain" minimize the person's death and may not be helpful. Be
   prepared for tears. Don't be embarrassed if, during your conversation,
   your co-worker starts to cry. Offer him or her a box of tissues, and
   keep a few extras in your pocket or purse. Meet for a coffee break or
   go out to lunch. Let your co-worker pick up the tab sometimes; this
   will help him or her feel more "normal" again. Continue to include your
   co-worker in regular social and office activities (birthday parties,
   coffee breaks, happy hours, etc.). Your co-worker is still a person who
   wants his or her relationships to continue as usual. Your co-worker may
   look forward to having a good time, and appreciate the stimulation of
   fun activities and conversation. But sometimes, he or she may prefer to
   concentrate on work. Don't take it personally if he or she declines a
   social invitation. Page 7 A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others Cope With
   Grief Remember your co-worker on important days such as holidays or the
   loved one's birthday or death anniversary. Send a card, call or visit.
   Let your co-worker know that you remember, too. Keep in mind that many
   co-workers may not want to reach out for help because their loss is so
   personal or they fear that they may be a burden to others. If your
   co-worker is struggling after a loss, it may be up to you to take the
   initiative and offer help. Employee Assistance Plans (EAPs) are
   counseling services offered by many employ- ers to help workers and
   their eligible family members resolve emotional problems (such as
   alcohol and drug abuse, emotional and personal issues, legal matters,
   stress reduction, grief and bereavement and more). EAP counselors are
   fully qualified and licensed in their areas of service. They typically
   include licensed psychologists, social workers, counselors and other
   staff. Usually with this service, the employee and his or her
   dependents are entitled to receive a set number of counseling sessions
   free of charge. If applicable, check with your employer to find out if
   your organization offers this benefit or any other type of grief
   counseling. Helping Children Cope With Grief and Death Although there
   is always a strong desire to protect children from pain, children (like
   adults) may have to face the pain caused by the death of a loved one.
   Children may be acutely aware of the absence of their loved one and the
   emotional tension around them, even if they don't have a full
   understanding of what has happened. Children also must work through the
   tasks of grief, but they must do so with greater limits on their level
   of understanding, less developed coping skills, and with less control
   over their external world. While it was once believed that children
   "got over" their grief relatively quickly, it is now understood that
   their sadness and grief is a process that they experience differently
   as they age and mature. Their under- standing, not only of death but
   also of themselves in relationships, grows as they age, and they will
   continue to re-examine and re-experience their loss. This section
   discusses how children respond to death, and how to support and guide a
   grieving child through the grief process in a healthy way. How Children
   Respond to Death A child's developmental level will influence the way
   he or she understands death and expresses grief. Over the course of
   childhood, children develop an understanding of the abstract concepts
   of death and all of the related beliefs. The following informa- tion
   outlines the responses to loss that can be expected, depending on a
   child's age. Note-Although these are typical responses, keep in mind
   that everyone responds to grief in different ways. The child you know
   may not fit these descriptions at these ages. Infants and Toddlers
   (ages birth to two years) While an infant will not understand the death
   of a loved one, his or her behavior may be affected by changes in
   routine or the grief of others around him or her. Common reactions may
   include fussiness; clinginess; disrupted sleep patterns; and Page 8
   physical reactions such as biting, hitting or pushing to express
   frustration and confu- sion. Around the age of two, a child may start
   to show a slight comprehension of the loss, but his or her reaction
   will tend to be egocentric-in relation to him or herself. Preschoolers
   (ages three to five years) Preschoolers typically have a poor sense of
   time and permanence and may view the death as reversible. He or she may
   think death is the same as going to sleep and the child may suddenly
   fear nighttime, getting ready for bed or falling asleep. A child may
   also experience confusion, bad dreams and general agitation. Regression
   in the form of thumb-sucking, bed-wetting and tantrums may also occur.
   Misunder- standings about what death is may be common; a child may ask
   repeated questions with little understanding of the answers. Sometimes
   a child at this age will worry intensely that someone else close to him
   or her will die soon. School-Aged Children (ages six to 12 years)
   Younger school-aged children tend to understand death in a more
   concrete way. This is around the age where a child will come to
   understand that death is final. He or she may become very interested in
   the process of death, wondering, for example, what happens to the body
   after death or asking repeated questions about the deceased. Children
   are now capable of suffering from sorrow, anger and denial, but they
   still may not view death as something that can happen to them. Younger
   school-aged children may attempt to avoid emotional pain at all costs;
   they may play, act silly or become easily distracted whenever the
   deceased is spoken of. Older school-aged children are generally mature
   enough to know something is wrong when a death occurs. They understand
   that death is final and irreversible, and it can happen to
   anyone-including them. The child may reach out to you or other adults
   for help in dealing with intense feelings, or he or she may become
   withdrawn, quiet or irritable-often a sign that he or she is fearful of
   loss or change. Children may also become self-conscious about
   expressing their feelings, or they may cover up the grief by joking
   about the experience. This may signal that they are confused about what
   to say or how to act. Teens (ages 13 to 18 years) Teens understand
   death much like adults, but they have fewer coping skills. Because
   teens are already struggling to find their own voice and identity, the
   death of a friend or loved one may leave them feeling more bewildered
   and confused. They may not be emotionally ready to deal with the death
   alone, yet they may struggle or refuse to share feelings or ask advice
   from parents or other adults. Supporting a Grieving Child If the child
   who is experiencing grief is under the age of two, you should maintain
   his or her routine as much as possible while providing plenty of love,
   reassurance, play and comfort. For all other ages, it is important to
   communicate about the loss within age-appropriate guidelines-as much as
   you truthfully and honestly can. Unfortunately, in the desire to
   protect them, adults often don't give children the information they
   need to make sense of what is happening. Even the clumsiest state- ment
   of truth is better than no information at all. Children have vivid
   imaginations and will create their own answers when factual information
   is lacking. Remember, a Page 9 A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others Cope
   With Grief child's imagination may create more frightful images than
   reality ever could. The more accurate and direct information you can
   give a child (depending on his or her age), the better off he or she
   will be. You may have already talked generally about death with the
   child who is grieving, but if not, a good place to start may be to
   borrow from nature. Most children have already been exposed to the
   death of birds, squirrels or pets; even flowers and plants die with the
   change of seasons. You may want to use these situations as examples to
   help explain death and its universality. When you speak to the child,
   choose your specific wording based on his or her age, the way you would
   when talking about anything. Consider the following suggestions: Tips
   for Talking to a Child About Death All living creatures are born and at
   some time must die. Explain that nothing lives forever. There is birth,
   there is life and there is death for all living creatures. Depending on
   your spiritual or religious beliefs, address the concept that only the
   body dies. Explain what you believe happens to the soul, spirit or
   energy that makes each person unique. Explaining, for example, that the
   soul of the loved one is now in a loving, peaceful place may bring a
   great deal of comfort to the child. Explain that death is permanent.
   For young children, explain that this means the person or animal will
   never come back. The child may not have developed an understanding of
   time and permanence yet and may not be able to fully understand this
   concept; it may need a lot of rein- forcement. Explain that dying is
   not like sleeping. Sometimes people compare the two because a dead body
   looks very peaceful, the way a sleeping person looks, but in all other
   ways it's completely different and can cause confu- sion for a child
   struggling to understand. Help the child understand the difference-we
   sleep to make our bodies strong and healthy, but we die when our bodies
   stop working altogether. Avoid statements like, "He died in his sleep."
   This may make the child fear going to sleep. Instead, be specific when
   you talk about the death. For example, say, "Grandpa died from cancer
   (or Alzheimer's, a stroke, etc.). He was very sick for a long time."
   Encourage children to ask questions; listen and respond as honestly as
   you can. Don't be afraid to say you don't know something, but offer to
   find out the answer. Ask the child what he or she thinks before
   responding to the questions. Remember, make it clear to the grieving
   child that you are willing to talk about what is going on, and how he
   or she feels about it. Otherwise, the child may be left emotionally
   alone to cope with the loss. Here are some basic tips to help a child
   cope with grief: Page 10 Give the child permission to grieve and ask
   questions about your experi- ence with grief, if applicable. Many
   children need help learning the skills to manage their intense feelings
   of grief. Don't be afraid to discuss painful issues with a child for
   fear of crying in front of him or her. Not only is it okay to cry in
   front of children, it is a good example of how strong feelings are
   expressed and managed, and can be a good opportunity to talk about
   feelings. It is important, however, to let a child know he or she is
   not responsible for taking care of you or any other adult. If you hide
   tears or emotions, a child can usually sense your pain and may try to
   protect you by not crying or asking questions that he or she thinks
   might upset you. Make simple statements like, "I'm sad because I'm
   going to miss Grandma. Sometimes it makes me feel bet- ter to cry. I
   know you are sad, too. I bet you feel like crying sometimes." This lets
   the child know honestly how you feel, and shows him or her that it's
   okay to express feelings. Continue routines to help the child feel
   secure. Adjusting to the loss of a loved one is often significantly
   life-altering for a child. To reduce the child's stress, try to
   continue daily patterns and routines. For instance, if the child is
   used to taking a nightly bath and then reading a story before going to
   bed, try to continue this routine. Encourage the child to keep memories
   alive. Children can keep memories alive by reminiscing with family and
   friends, placing a picture of the loved one next to their bed, creating
   a scrapbook with photos or remembrances, or keep- ing a favorite gift
   from the loved one nearby. By helping the child remember, he or she
   will see that a loved one will not be forgotten after death. Read
   age-appropriate books on death and loss. There are books available on
   specific losses (i.e., losing a grandparent or a pet). See the
   Suggested Reading list in the back of this guide or visit your local
   library. Continue to mention the person who died. Children take their
   cues from parents and other adults. If a child gets the message that a
   loved one is not to be talked about, he or she will be left alone with
   his or her feelings, questions and fears. Be careful about using
   statements like, "Now he (or she) is happy." These may suggest to a
   child that the loved one is better off or was glad to leave him or her.
   Children need to know that, while a loved one now is out of pain or
   distress, their parent, sibling or friend didn't want to leave him or
   her. Older children (generally over age three) should be allowed to
   partici- pate in events related to death and mourning. Children want to
   be includ- ed in major family and life events, especially if they have
   accurate information about what to expect. This will vary depending on
   the child's age and personal- ity, but as a guideline, if the child can
   understand what is going on, you may want to give him or her the option
   of participating. Keep in mind that, if your child is young, he or she
   may have trouble sitting still through a long service. Talk with the
   child about the funeral, wake or other memorial service, and gently
   encourage him or her to join in. But prepare your child for what to
   expect: crying people, many people in dark clothes, open casket, etc.
   Note-An open casket may be frightening to many young children. Page 11
   A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others Cope With Grief If he or she
   doesn't want to attend the funeral event, respect and support that
   choice. Talk to the child about participating in some other way, such
   as making something to put in the casket-a card, picture or letter-or
   planning a time in the future to visit the gravesite or memorial
   marker. Remember that children do not usually sustain painful emotions
   for long periods of time. Young children typically express feelings of
   sadness or anger for a brief period of time, then run off to play. They
   are often unable to sus- tain or tolerate painful emotions for long
   periods of time. This does not mean the child has already forgotten or
   is minimally affected by the loss. It is simply the child's way of
   signaling that he or she has had all the pain he or she can tolerate
   for a period of time. The child will probably return to his or her
   feel- ings, questions or need to participate in grief-related events
   later. Understand how children work through their feelings. Children
   work through their feelings in play, and express their feelings through
   behavior. Don't be alarmed if a child is expressing a great deal of
   sadness or anger in his or her play, as long as he or she is not
   harmful to him or herself or others. A child's feelings may only become
   a problem if they do not have the appropriate outlet. If a child seems
   irritable and angry, tell him or her that you understand he or she
   feels angry, and that it is normal under the circumstances. If, on the
   other hand, he or she is getting into fist fights with peers, breaking
   things or engaging in any other destructive behaviors, the child
   probably needs more support, and definitely needs help finding
   constructive ways to channel his or her painful feelings. If this is
   the case, consider seeking professional help. Help children understand
   their feelings. After a person's death, children may have difficulty
   understanding their emotions. Help the grieving child know that his or
   her feelings are normal, even though they are unfamiliar. By helping
   the child identify his or her feelings, you encourage him or her to
   build coping tools that will grow over time. For example, if a child is
   irritable or argumentative, tell him, "I know you feel angry that your
   mom died. It doesn't seem fair, does it? You know, I feel angry
   sometimes, too." Or, "I know you're sad; so am I. Sometimes when I'm
   sad, I cry. Do you?" Remember that the process of grieving varies
   throughout a person's life. As a child grows-and his or her
   understanding of death and loss evolves-the child may continually
   rework the meaning of his or her loss. The loss of a parent, for
   example, may mean something different to a child as he or she goes
   through puberty, begins to date, graduates high school, leaves home,
   has a baby, etc. With support, children may find ways to adapt to the
   loss, keep their loved ones with them and invest in the future.
   Anticipate and address the child's fears. Children, like adults, often
   feel vulnerable after the death of a loved one. If a parent dies, the
   child needs reassurance that he or she will be taken care of, and that
   everything will be okay. Maintain daily routines as much as possible to
   help the child re-establish a sense of safety. After the death of a
   grandparent, parent or other significant person, children often fear
   that other important people in their life will die. Avoid empty reas-
   surances. Rather than promising that nothing bad will ever happen to
   you or other adults and friends, stress that people are here now to
   care for him or her. Page 12 Invite the child to talk about his or her
   fears and acknowledge that it feels scary to have someone die. It will
   be important for the child to manage his or her grief by developing a
   sense of mastery over his or her fears, addressing them through words
   or play, or persisting in spite of them. Build a support system. It is
   important that a child's teacher, child care provider and/or other
   adults know about his or her loss and what to expect. Caregivers should
   be told that the child will probably need extra attention and care.
   They may also see regressive behavior (i.e., whining, thumb sucking,
   clinging, etc.). For example, young children who are toilet trained may
   start needing diapers again. For school-aged children and adolescents,
   school can be a place where they can resume their "normal" life. It can
   also pose some difficulties. Because grief often causes difficulty with
   concentration, schoolwork may become particular- ly difficult. If
   necessary, talk to the child's teacher about temporarily decreas- ing
   demands, and letting him or her take breaks to go to a counselor,
   school nurse or some other designated individual. Typically, children
   will not use this as a "crutch," as is sometimes feared; they want to
   be like their peers, and will likely resume a normal workload as soon
   as they are able. If, after a few months, the child is still having
   difficulty, talk to his or her teacher, guidance counselor or
   pediatrician about professional counseling. Seeking Professional Help
   for a Child You should expect changes in any child for a while after
   the death of a loved one or friend, but if the child is having
   difficulty managing his or her grief, talk to a pro- fessional
   therapist or counselor. The child's doctor, a clergy member and/or
   local hospices can refer you to counselors and resources in the area
   who specialize in dealing with children and grief. The following signs
   may indicate that a child may need extra help: Prolonged physical
   changes-If a child experiences sleep disruptions or appetite changes
   leading to weight loss or gain that persist beyond the first few months
   after the death, seek help from the child's doctor. Prolonged behavior
   changes-If a child is exhibiting disruptive behavior or behavior that
   is noticeably better than normal (e.g., a loud, overly active child
   suddenly becomes a quiet, reserved child after the death of a loved
   one), talk to the child's doctor and his or her caregivers and
   teachers. Marked withdrawal from peer groups-If, beyond the first few
   months after a death, the child is no longer interacting with friends
   the way he or she did prior to the death (refusing to call friends,
   declining invitations to play, preferring to be at home alone, etc.),
   he or she may need extra attention and help coping with the loss.
   Little or no emotional response to the loss-If you see no reaction
   whatsoever from a child, as if the death never occurred, the child is
   probably using an excessive amount of energy to ward off his or her
   feelings. He or she may need help from you, other adults and possibly
   from a professional to manage the grief. Page 13 A LifeCare® Guide to
   Helping Others Cope With Grief Marked change in health status-If a
   child is suddenly sick a lot, the illness- es may be a response to
   emotional stress. The child may need help expressing his or her grief
   directly, and may benefit from talking with a counselor or attending a
   children's grief support group. Thoughts of suicide-If a child says
   anything about not wanting to live, wishing he or she was dead or
   wanting to join the deceased, always treat this as a serious statement
   of pain and a need for more attention and support. Even if you think
   the child is just trying to get attention, don't ignore these
   statements or minimize their seriousness. Self-destructive behavior,
   such as alcohol use, drug use or risky stunts, should be treated
   similarly. If he or she is ignored, the child may take more severe
   action to get the attention and help he or she needs. Finally, remember
   to listen to the child and encourage him or her to express his or her
   feelings, whatever those feelings are. You may not always know what the
   child is feeling, but if you can provide a secure, positive environment
   where he or she feels listened to, protected and loved, then you are
   giving a grieving child the best possi- ble support. Page 14 Suggested
   Reading on Helping Others Cope With Grief I Can't Stop Crying: It's So
   Hard When Someone You Love Dies, by John D. Martin and Frank Ferris,
   M.D. Toronto: Key Porter Books, 1992. This book was written for
   individuals who are recently bereaved of someone very close to
   them-typically a partner, although the messages have a very wide
   applica- tion. The key messages is that it's normal to feel bad, and
   that healing will come if you find safe ways to experience your
   emotions. Down-to-earth examples show how grief affects many areas of
   daily life, relationships with others and hopes for the future.
   Practical tips in plain language are organized for easy reading. I
   Don't Know What to Say: How to Help and Support Someone Who Is Dying,
   by Robert Buckman, M.D. New York: Vintage Books, 1992. Dr. Buckman,
   himself diagnosed with a terminal illness, addresses the patient's need
   for information, as well as the needs of family and friends; the way to
   support a dying parent or child; and the complications of caring for
   those afflicted with AIDS or cancer. Letters to My Husband, by Fern
   Field Brooks. Franklin Lakes, N.J.: Career Press, 1995. A book about
   widowhood, showing one woman's first year of mourning following the
   sudden death of her husband due to a heart attack. She relives the
   trauma of his death as well as many warm memories of their life
   together. The final message is one of hope and comfort despite the pain
   of loss. On Death and Dying, by Elisabeth Kubler-Ross. New York: Simon
   & Schuster Trade Paperbacks, 1997. This is the world-famous bestseller
   by the woman who popularized the field of thanatology (the study of the
   phenomena of death and of the psychological mecha- nisms for coping
   with them) as a subject for general social commentary. This was her
   first book on the topic and is considered a classic, introducing the
   famous "five stages" model. Safe Passage: Words to Help the Grieving
   Hold Fast and Let Go, by Molly Fumia. Berkeley, Calif.: Conari Press,
   1992. Words of comfort for those who have suffered a loss move the
   reader through the raw emotions of grief-denial, anger, confusion,
   guilt, and loneliness-to acceptance and transformation. What to Do When
   a Loved One Dies: A Practical and Compassionate Guide to Dealing With
   Death on Life's Terms, by Eva Shaw. Irvine, Calif.: Dickens Press,
   1994. From organ donation and planning the funeral to living with
   suicide and practical matters of trusts and wills, this indispensable
   reference guides the reader through a wide range of concerns about the
   death process. Page 15 A LifeCare® Guide to Helping Others Cope With
   Grief When Bad Things Happen to Good People, by Harold Kushner. New
   York: Avon Paperbacks, 1994. A Jewish rabbi facing his own child's
   fatal illness gives wise, compassionate and practical advice on how to
   cope with anger, guilt and grief following potentially overwhelming
   losses. Offers spiritual guidance that goes beyond the limits of tradi-
   tional religious boundaries. You Can Help Someone Who's Grieving, by
   Victoria Frigo, Diane Fisher and Mary Lou Cook. New York: Penguin USA
   (paper), 1996. This book gives commonsense advice on how to help a
   grieving friend. It addresses the problem many of us have felt when
   we're just not sure what to say or do when someone close to us has
   suffered a loss. The main appeal of this unpretentious book is it's
   simplicity-there's not a lot of academic jargon, just recognition of
   human nature and practical suggestions on how to help. Books for
   Children Annie and the Old One, by Miska Miles. Boston: Little Brown
   and Company, 1971. The story of Annie, a Navajo child, set against a
   background of Navajo traditions and contemporary Indian life. When
   Annie's grandmother tells her that when Annie's mother's rug is
   completely woven that the grandmother will die, Annie tries to hold
   back time by unweaving the rug in secret. Lifetimes: The Beautiful Way
   to Explain Death to Children, by Bryan Melloine and Robert Ingpen.
   Toronto: Bantam Books, 1983. This moving book for children of all ages
   and their parents explains life and death in a sensitive and caring
   way. It talks about beginnings, endings and about living in between.
   Nana Upstairs, Nana Downstairs, by Tomie dePaola. New York: Penguin
   Putnam Books for Young Readers, 2000. Recommended for children aged
   five to eight, this book shows the love between a child and
   grandparent, and pictures the child's adjustment to death. In a quietly
   touching story, the authorillustrator depicts loving family
   relationships so tha even a very young reader can understand the
   concept. The New King, by Doreen Rappaport. New York: Dial Books for
   Young Readers, 1995. When young Prince Rakoto is told of his father's
   death, he cannot accept it. The new king gives his first orders to his
   royal advisors: "Bring my father back to life!" When they are unable to
   do so, Rakoto then goes to the Wise Woman who tells him an enthralling
   tale that helps him begin to accept what has happened. Straight Talk
   About Death for Teenagers: How to Cope With Losing Someone You Love, by
   Earl Grollman. Boston: Beacon Press, 1993. This book is for teenagers
   who have lived through the death of a friend or relative. Grollman
   discusses normal reactions to the shock of death; how grief can affect
   relationships; how participating in a funeral can help; how to survive
   birthdays and anniversaries; and how to work through grief and begin to
   live again. This book also includes a journal section where readers can
   record memories, feelings and hopes. Page 16 The Tenth Good Thing About
   Barney, by Judith Viorst. New York: Aladdin Books, 1971. Narrated by a
   child whose cat, Barney, has just died, the author succinctly and hon-
   estly handles both the emotions stemming from the loss of a beloved pet
   and the questions about the finality of death that arise in such a
   situation. When a Friend Dies: A Book for Teens About Grieving &
   Healing, by Marilyn Gootman. Minneapolis, Minn.: Free Spirit Publishing
   Inc., 1994. This book is for young adults grieving the death of a
   friend. The author watched her own children suffer from the death of a
   friend, and here she shares her teenagers' experiences. This book
   offers help to cope with sadness as well as gen- uine understanding,
   gentle advice and compassionate wisdom to guide teenagers through the
   days, weeks or months surrounding a death. When Dinosaurs Die: A Guide
   to Understanding Death, by Laura Krasny Brown and Mark Brown. Boston:
   Little Brown & Company, 1996. For children ages four through eight,
   this book uses simple language to explain the feelings people may have
   regarding the death of a loved one and ways to honor the memory of
   someone who has died. Note-This reading list is not intended to be
   entirely comprehensive since new books are published continually. Visit
   your library or local bookstore for new and noteworthy titles. Page 17
   Helpful Resources for Coping With Grief Grief and Bereavement National
   SHARE Office (Pregnancy GriefNet and Infant Loss Support, Inc.)
   http://rivendell.org St. Joseph Health Center GriefNet is an online
   system that can con- 300 First Capitol Drive nect you with a variety of
   resources related St. Charles, MO 63301-2893 to death, dying,
   bereavement and major 800-821-6819 emotional and physical losses. It
   offers 636-947-6164 information and online discussion and sup-
   http://www.nationalshareoffice.com port groups for bereaved persons and
   those This national organization serves those working with the
   bereaved, both profes- who are grieving the death of a baby sional and
   lay persons. through miscarriage, stillbirth or newborn death by
   providing grief support informa- Twinless Twins Support Group tion,
   education and resources on the needs International and rights of
   bereaved parents and siblings. 9311 Poplar Creek Place It sponsors over
   100 local chapters nation- Leo, IN 46765 ally and internationally.
   219-627-5414 http://www.fwi.com/twinless/ National Sudden Infant Death
   This international organization provides Syndrome Resource Center
   (NSRC) support for twins (and all multiple births) 2070 Chain Bridge
   Road, Suite 450 and their family members who are suffer- Vienna, VA
   22182 ing from such a loss. 703-821-8955 ext. 249
   http://www.circsol.com/sids/ NSRC is an affiliate of the National
   Infant/Pregnancy Loss Center for Education in Maternal and A.M.E.N.D.
   (Aiding a Mother and Child Health, which in turn is a service of Father
   Experiencing Neonatal Death) the U.S. Department of Health and 1559
   Ville Rosa Human Services. NSRC provides informa- Hazelwood, MO 63042
   tion, referrals and assistance to parents and 314-291-0892 friends of
   SIDS victims, and distributes the This national organization offers
   support Information Exchange newsletter. The and encouragement to
   parents grieving the center also provides free information loss of
   their baby. sheets on SIDS. CLIMB (Center for Loss in Multiple Sudden
   Infant Death Syndrome Alliance Birth) 1314 Bedford Avenue, Suite 210 PO
   Box 91377 Baltimore, MD 21208 Anchorage, AK 99509 800-221-SIDS (7437)
   (24-hour hotline) 907-222-5321 410-653-8226
   http://www.climb-support.org http://www.sidsalliance.org/ CLIMB offers
   support by and for parents This national, nonprofit, voluntary health
   of twins, triplets or other multiple- birth organization is dedicated
   to the support of children who have experienced the death SIDS
   families, education and research. With of one or more children during
   pregnancy, help from over 50 local affiliates, the alliance at birth,
   in infancy or childhood. It pro- provides support groups, one-on-one
   contact, vides contact listings, articles and tele- and strives to
   unite parents and friends of phone and mail support to parents and SIDS
   victims with medical, business and civic friends suffering this kind of
   loss. groups concerned about the health of infants. Page 19 Unite, Inc.
   MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Jeanes Hospital Driving) 7600 Central
   Avenue PO Box 541688 Philadelphia, PA 19111-2499 Dallas, TX 75354-1688
   215-728-3777 800-GET-MADD (438-6233) This national organization
   provides grief http://www.madd.org/ support following the death of a
   baby, Mothers Against Drunk Driving is a including miscarriage, ectopic
   pregnancy, nonprofit, grassroots organization with stillbirth and
   infant death. It maintains more than 600 chapters nationwide. local
   chapters and offers educational MADD is focused on finding effective
   programs and information to those sur- solutions to drunk driving and
   underage viving these losses. drinking, while supporting those who have
   already experienced the pain of Loss of a Child these senseless crimes.
   The Candlelighters Childhood The National Organization of Cancer
   Foundation (CCCF) Parents of Murdered Children 3910 Warner Street
   (POMC) Kensington, MD 20895 100 East Eighth Street, B-41 800-366-2223
   Cincinnati, OH 45202 301-657-8401 513-721-5683
   http://www.candlelighters.org 888-818-POMC (7662) (toll-free) This is
   an international, nonprofit http://pomc.com/ organization whose mission
   is to edu- This national, nonprofit organization cate, support, serve
   and advocate for provides ongoing emotional support to families of
   children of cancer, survivors parents and other survivors of murdered
   of childhood cancer, and the profession- children. It will also help
   and assist vic- als who care for them. This organization tims dealing
   with the criminal justice provides education, peer support, an system.
   Call or visit its Web page for information clearinghouse, referrals to
   support, information or to subscribe to local contacts, publications
   and advocacy. its newsletter. The Compassionate Friends PO Box 3696 Pet
   Loss Oak Brook, IL 60522-3696 Pet Loss.com 877-969-0010 (toll-free)
   http://www.petloss.com/ 630-990-0010 This is a Web site for those
   grieving http://www.compassionatefriends.org over the death of a pet or
   an ill pet. It A national nonprofit, self-help support offers personal
   support, advice, tribute organization that offers friendship and pages,
   poetry and more. understanding to families who are griev- ing the death
   of a child of any age, from any cause. Page 20 Pet Loss Partnership
   (PLP) Suicide College of Veterinary Medicine American Association of
   Suicidology PO Box 647010 4201 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. Washington
   State University Suite 408 Pullman, WA 99164-7010 Washington, DC 20008
   509-335-1303 202 237-2280 TDD: 509-335-1179 800-SUICIDE (784-2433)
   http://www.vetmed.wsu.edu/plp.html http://www.suicidology.org/ The goal
   of PLP is to provide support A nonprofit organization dedicated to for
   people grieving the loss of a pet. Call the understanding and
   prevention of or visit its Web site to request a newslet- suicide. It
   provides resources for anyone ter and/or other resource information.
   concerned about suicide, including AAS members, suicide researchers,
   therapists, Self-Help prevention specialists, survivors of sui-
   American Self-Help Clearinghouse cide and people who are themselves in
   100 E. Hanover Avenue, Suite 202 crisis. Cedar Knolls, NJ 07927-2020
   Light for Life Foundation 973-326-6789 International
   http://www.mentalhealth.net/selfhelp/ Yellow Ribbon Suicide Prevention
   This national organization provides Program information on local
   self-help group PO Box 644 clearinghouses worldwide, which can
   Westminster, CO 80036-0644 help you find and form bereavement
   303-429-3530 self-help groups. The American Self-
   http://www.yellowribbon.org/ Help Clearinghouse also provides free This
   national, nonprofit organization consultation on starting new self-help
   provides suicide prevention information groups. and youth suicide facts
   and statistics. National Self-Help Clearinghouse From its Web site, you
   can link to CUNY, Gradute School and University suicide statistics,
   coping tips, crisis/help Center groups and survivors' support networks.
   365 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300 New York, NY 10016 212-817-1822
   http://www.selfhelpweb.org This nonprofit, national service refers
   individuals to self-help support groups all over the United States. It
   will help you locate a support group in your area or refer you to a
   clearinghouse that will help you locate one. Page 21 I S B N 1 - 5 8 5
   5 9 - 0 8 1 - 9
