http://ccl.dss.cahwnet.gov/docs/sags/tspdesc2.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CCLD Home
                          Facility Types
                          Search for a Facility
                          Licensing Forms
                          Employment
                          District Offices
                          Community Care Updates
                          Regulations
                          An Overview of Licensing
                          Provider Letters
                          Index to Precedent
                          Links
                          Website Comments
                          Website Search
                          Internal Applications



   Technical Support Program



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Technical Support Program

      The Technical Support Program (TSP) was established in April of 1992.
      TSP staff help residential care providers achieve and maintain
      compliance with licensing regulations. They also work to improve
      communication between care providers and the licensing agency. TSP
      staff offer consultation in individual facilities and provide group
      training sessions for care providers with common training needs. TSP
      services are provided free of charge and on a voluntary basis.

      The TSP emphasizes prevention through education. Care providers develop
      procedures that will prevent compliance problems. A major focus of each
      consultation is to provide licensees and facility staff with
      information needed to operate their facilities in compliance with
      licensing requirements.

      The TSP maintains a resource library with a variety of information on
      how to improve  services. It also has handouts to assist care providers
      to assess clients' needs, clarify regulatory requirements, and enable
      licensees and staff to evaluate their facility operation.

      Topics for which TSP provides training are listed below. To arrange for
      a facility consultation, a group training session, or to request items
      from the resource library, you may contact TSP at (916) 229-4512 or
      click on the link for a complete phone roster.

      Training Topics

      Client Assessment and Services: Assessing, reassessing, documenting and
      meeting client needs. Relocation when needs can no longer be met.
      Operating the facility within the limits of its license.

      Incidental Medical Services: Accepting and retaining appropriate
      clients for the level of care that a non-medical community care
      licensed facility can provide. This category includes dementia care and
      hospice care.

      Medications: Handling of medications, including storage, dispensing,
      labeling and record keeping procedures, PRNs (Pro Re Nata: meaning, as
      needed).

      Physical Plant: Safety issues related to buildings or grounds,
      including fenced pools, maintenance, lighting, heating, cooling, and
      required phone or signal system.

      Personal Rights: Appropriate client care, establishing emergency
      interventions, house rules, discipline and visitation policies.

      Staffing: Numbers and qualifications of staff necessary to provide
      program services. Fingerprint and staff training requirements,
      identifying staff training needs.

      Nutrition and Food Service: Provision of adequate food service
      including quality and quantity, special diets, menu planning, sanitary
      conditions affecting food service and food storage.

      Administration: Maintaining administrative control over the facility,
      use of the regulations to improve the administration of the facility,
      responding to licensing citations, appeal process, licensee rights,
      waivers, exceptions and exemptions, appropriate financial resources to
      operate facility.

      Cash Handling and Personal Property: Appropriate use of client funds,
      maintenance of adequate cash handling records, protection of client's
      personal property.

      Record Keeping: Maintenance of complete staff, client, and
      administrative records.

      Documentation and Reporting: Reporting of client incidents or facility
      staff or operation changes as required.

      Activities: Provision of activities consistent with the needs and
      capabilities of clients, including utilization of available community
      resources.

      Ombudsman Services: Intervention or mediation by TSP to resolve problem
      areas involving the licensing agency and the provider community.

      Self-Assessment Guides
      Below are the Self Assessment Guides available for viewing or printing.
      The guides are in Adobe PDF format and will require you to have Adobe
      Acrobat Reader. There is also a link to Adobe where you can download
      the reader free-of-charge.

   Adult Residential Facility Guides
   Certified Family Home Guides
   Foster Family Homes
   General Information Guides
   Group Home Guides
   Residential Care Facility for the Elderly Guides
   Small Family Home Guides                        Get Acrobat Reader

              Promoting Healthy, Safe, and Supportive Community Care



                             Back to Top of Page

            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
