http://www.ecy.wa.gov/siteinfo.html

   Access Washington Department of Ecology Home Page

      Ecology Home
   About Ecology
   Directory
   Public Events
   Laws and Rules
   Publications
   Public Records
   spacer
   Environmental Info.
   spacer
   Services
   spacer
   Programs
   spacer
   Contracting
   Jobs
   Other Links



                           Search Contact Us E-Mail Lists Site Information

                        Site Information


Site Map

File Formats

   PDF Documents: Some of the documents available on this site are
   provided in Portable Document Format (PDF). Users may need to download
   and install Adobe Acrobat Reader to view and print these documents.
   This is free software available from Adobe.

   Word Documents: Other documents available on this site are provided in
   Microsoft Word 6.0 for Windows format. Users may need to download and
   install Word Viewer to view and print these documents. This is free
   software available from Microsoft.

Privacy Notice

External Content Policy

Non-Discrimination Notice

   The Department of Ecology is an equal opportunity agency and does not
   discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, disability, age,
   religion, national origin, sex, marital status, disabled veteran's
   status, Vietnam Era veteran's status or sexual orientation.

   If you have special accommodation needs or require this document in
   alternative format, please contact Ecology at 360 407-6000 (Voice) or
   360 407-6006 (TDD).

Disclaimer

   Neither the State of Washington nor any agency, officer, or employee of
   the State of Washington warrants the accuracy, reliability or
   timeliness of any information published by this system, nor endorses
   any products or services linked from this system, and shall not be held
   liable for any losses caused by reliance on the accuracy, reliability
   or timeliness of such information. Portions of such information may be
   incorrect or not current. Any person or entity who relies on any
   information obtained from this system does so at their own risk.

Awards and Recognition

   In October 2000, Ecology's web site was recognized as one of top state
   environmental web sites in a national survey conducted by the Resources
   for the Future; see Electronic Democracy and Environmental Governance:
   A Survey of the States (138 KB PDF).

Mailing Address

   Washington State Department of Ecology, P.O. Box 47600, Olympia, WA
   98504-7600


                              Valid HTML 4.01!

                                 Valid CSS!
