http://pi.cdfa.ca.gov/scripts/is/files/news.doc

   Introduction to the Sample Plan The following document is a sample of a
   finished business plan. In your final plan, you have the opportunity to
   elaborate on those ideas in your outline that you feel are most
   integral to your business. In composing your business plan, you can
   follow your outline as loosely or closely as you choose. For instance,
   in the sample plan, the Executive Summary, which is the last section of
   the Business Planning Wizard, is presented first in order to emphasize
   the most impressive features of the business. Your goal in composing a
   finished business plan is to construct the most comprehensive, thorough
   document possible, in order to attract investors and to confirm that
   you have taken the time to explore as many potential issues for your
   business as may arise. Mr. Richard Carey Canton Street Seattle,
   Washington 22222 Dear Mr. Carey: My attorney, Mr. William Hollands,
   suggested I write to you regarding my business, Northwind Traders. I am
   currently seeking funding, and I believe that my company would coincide
   with your interest in businesses relating to the travel industry makes
   my company a great investment for you. Northwind Traders is positioned
   to take advantage of the significant market opportunities available in
   the customized travel-planning field. Through a professional approach
   to marketing, experienced management, and an emphasis on outstanding
   customer support and service, Northwind Traders can become the Greater
   Seattle area's premier provider of planning services for European
   adventure travel through a strong marketing campaign, experienced
   management, and an emphasis on outstanding customer support and
   service. From that base, the company will expand to become a regional
   force. We are seeking $83,500 in funding, and anticipate this to be the
   extent of the funds required. The funds will be used to refurbish the
   shop, to expand the staff, and to developincrease marketing activities,
   primarily our Web site and databasee development. I appreciate your
   consideration of the business plan for Northwind Traders. I will
   contact you next week in approximately ten days to see if you have any
   questions andor to discuss how we may proceed. Thank you. Sincerely,
   Heather Mitchell President Table of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 1
   Description of the Company 1 Mission Statement 1 Products and Services
   1 Financial Forecast 2 Financing Requirements 2 HISTORY AND POSITION TO
   DATE 4 The Company's Mission 4 Management Team and Key Personnel 4
   Services 6 Transportation 7 Company History 7 Guarantees and Warranties
   8 Business Structure 8 MARKET RESEARCH 8 Economic and Social Factors 9
   Competitive Environment 9 Long-Term Opportunities 9 Geographic Area 10
   Market Description 10 Target Customers 10 Market Definition 10 Market
   Opportunities 11 Competitive Analysis 12 Competitive Advantages 13
   Competitors' Positions 14 Potential Future Competition 14 BUSINESS
   STRATEGY 15 Customer Incentives 15 Advertising and Promotion 15 Sales
   and Marketing 16 Commission 17 OPERATIONS 17 Premises 17 Choice of
   Location and Premises 17 Hours of Operation 17 Equipment 18 Staffing 18
   FORECASTING 18 Sales Forecast 18 Cash Flow Projections 20 Income
   Statement 20 Balance Sheet 21 Performance Ratios 21 Break-Even 21 Funds
   Required and Timing 21 Funding Options 22 BUSINESS CONTROLS 23
   Accounting System 23 Quality Control 23 New Tour Operators 23 Capacity
   23 Long-Term Goals 24 Steps for Achieving Goals 24 Position 25 Risks
   Associated with Growth 25 APPENDIX 1: MARKET RESEARCH 26 APPENDIX 2:
   FINANCIAL FORECASTS 35 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 6 The Company 6 The Company's
   Mission 6 Products and Services 6 Marketing and Sales Techniques 6 The
   Competition 7 Target Market 7 Operations 8 Management 8 Financials 8
   Funding 9 HISTORY AND POSITION TO DATE 10 The Company's Mission 10
   Management Team and Key Personnel 10 Services 12 Transportation 13
   Company History 13 Guarantees and Warranties 14 Business Structure 14
   MARKET RESEARCH 14 Economic and Social Factors 15 Competitive
   Environment 15 Long-Term Opportunities 15 Geographic Area 16 Market
   Description 16 Target Customers 17 Market Definition 17 Market
   Opportunities 18 Competitive Analysis 19 Competitive Advantages 22
   Competitors' Positions 22 Potential Future Competition 23 BUSINESS
   STRATEGY 23 Customer Incentives 23 Advertising and Promotion 24 Sales
   and Marketing 25 Commission 25 OPERATIONS 25 Premises 25 Choice of
   Location and Premises 26 Hours of Operation 26 Equipment 26 Staffing 26
   FORECASTING 27 Sales Forecast 27 Cash Flow Projections 28 Income
   Statement 28 Balance Sheet 29 Performance Ratios 29 Break-Even 29 Funds
   Required and Timing 30 Funding Options 31 BUSINESS CONTROLS 31
   Accounting System 31 Quality Control 31 New Tour Operators 32 Capacity
   32 Long-Term Goals 32 Steps for Achieving Goals 32 Position 33 Risks
   Associated with Growth 34 APPENDIX 1: MARKET RESEARCH 35 International
   Arrivals by World Region 35 Indications of Tourism Demand in 1997 36
   Summary of Findings from Market Research Survey 37 Northwind Traders
   Questionnaire 41 Internet Growth and the Sale of Travel Services 44
   APPENDIX 2: FINANCIAL FORECASTS 46 Cash Flow Projection Year One 46
   Income Statement, Years One to Three 48 Balance Sheet at end of Year
   One 51 Sources and Uses of Funds 53 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The Description
   of the Company Northwind Traders, Inc. provides travel-planning
   services for European adventure vacations to residents ofindividuals in
   the Ggreater SeattleRedmond area. The service industry, including
   travel agencies, is one of the fastest growing business sectorsareas of
   the economy, and Northwind Traders intends to capitalize on the success
   of this industry by taking advantage of travel planning opportunities
   in the Pacific Northwest region. President Heather Mitchell and Vice
   President of Sales and Marketing Jim Kim currently hold the company's
   stock. Prior to starting the Northwind Traders travel agency, Ms.
   Mitchell cofounded, co-owned, and operated the Northwind Traders
   clothing store. She has selected a small team with extensive travel,
   sales, and computer skills, all of whom will be invaluable to the new
   venture. Her coworkers bring a combined total of 35 years of travel
   industry experience to the agency. President Heather Mitchell and Vice
   President of Sales and Marketing Jim Kim currently hold the company's
   stock. The Company's Mission Statement The mission of Northwind Traders
   is to become the premier provider of adventure vacations for 25- to 35-
   year-old professionals. Northwind Traders is dedicated to building
   long-term relationships with customers through quality training and
   customer support, and wants to be recognized as the leading adventure
   vacation company in the Ggreater SeattleRedmond area. The company's
   goal is to grow steadilyy expansion, becoming profitable by the
   secondthird year of operations. Products and Services Northwind Traders
   recently became the appointed agents for Margie's Travel, one of the
   largest and most respected tour operators in the market. With virtually
   no marketing effort, Northwind Traders has sold some 200 adventure
   vacations in the past six months, netting $66,800 in commissions. Sales
   of insurance policies and other services have added to this total, and
   could potentially add much more. Northwind Traders offers a
   comprehensive range of services to support the adventurous traveler,
   including pre- and postvacation briefings, travel insurance, and a
   directory of services specific to each destination and activity.
   Marketing and Sales Techniques Northwind Traders believes that by
   concentrating on one market segment and one geographic destination, it
   will be able to deliver a service that is superior to anything
   currently on the market. Published research shows that tourism is a
   fast-growing business sector and that Europe is the favored location
   for most travelers. Adventure vacations, while a relatively new and
   small market, looks set for explosive growth. In addition to targeting
   adventure travelers and working as the appointed agents for established
   travel tour firms, Northwind Traders plans to leverage its relationship
   with its sister business, Northwind Traders outdoor clothing shop, by
   offering discount services to shop customers. The Competition From desk
   and field market research carried out on 300 clients, it is clear that
   there is considerable potential in the adventure travel business.
   Research indicates that Northwind Traders' target market finds it
   difficult to obtain reliable and authoritative advice on destinations
   and activities. Research also suggests that the customers in this
   market are unlikely to purchase their vacations again from the firm who
   provided their last vacation due to a lack of informative sales
   personnel. Northwind Traders will cater to these needs and develop a
   strong return-customer base. Because they are currently the only travel
   agency focused on European adventure vacations that is located in the
   SeattleRedmond area, Northwind Traders has a substantial opportunity to
   dominate the region. In order to maintain and improve their current
   position in the region, they will need to invest in a Web site, as well
   as database software and systems, and in refurbishing the shop
   premises. Northwind Traders maintains the following advantages over
   existing competition: ongoing support to clients; extensive knowledge
   of the European adventure vacation field; superior customer service;
   specialized training programs for staff; informative Web site;
   competitive rates. informative Web site competitive rates Target Market
   From desk and field market research carried out on 300 clients, it is
   clear that there is considerable potential in the adventure travel
   business. Research indicates that Northwind Traders' target market
   finds it difficult to obtain reliable and authoritative advice on
   destinations and activities. Research also suggests that the customers
   in this market are unlikely to purchase their vacations again from the
   firm who provided their last vacation due to a lack of informative
   sales personnel. Northwind Traders will cater to these needs and
   develop a strong return-customer base. Operations The Northwind Traders
   travel agency business will operate from a self-contained facility
   within the existing clothing shop, with its own shop window and
   entrance from the main street. The business will benefit both from its
   accessible location in the heart of SeattleRedmond's downtown shopping
   district, as well as from the clientele it will gain through its
   proximity to the already established Northwind Traders clothing store.
   Management Prior to starting the Northwind Traders travel agency, Ms.
   Mitchell cofounded, co-owned, and operated the Northwind Traders
   clothing store. She has selected a small team with extensive travel,
   sales, and computer skills, all of whom will be invaluable to the new
   venture. Her coworkers bring a combined total of 35 years of travel
   industry experience to the agency. Financial Forecasts Northwind
   Traders started as a clothing store and has expanded into the travel
   agency business, with its focus on adventure travel in Europe. Last
   year, Northwind Traders clothing store made $200,400 profit on sales of
   $1,419,500 and employed seven people. Northwind Traders expects that by
   concentrating full-time on selling adventure vacations, clients will
   increase from the present level of 200 (achieved over a six-month
   period with only a part-time effort), to at least 660 in the first
   year, 1400 in the second, and 2100 in the third. To help achieve this
   growth, Ms. Mitchell has identified three other tour operators she
   wishes to represent and has begun negotiations with them. Selling
   between two and three vacations a day will allow the business to reach
   cash flow break-even in Year One, while makeing a modest profit in Year
   One. By the Year Two posttax profits should be $3040,0600, and will
   increase to nearly $496501,000 by Year Three. FundingFinancing
   Requirementss Sought and Utilization Ms. Mitchell plans to sell her
   shares in the clothing shop and invest the proceeds in the new travel
   business, Northwind Traders. In addition, she will be investing $41,750
   of her own money in the business, and seeking $83,500 from outside
   sources. Return on shareholders capital by Year Three is projected to
   be close to 100 percent. The purpose of the business plan is to
   communicate this highly profitable opportunity to Ms. Mitchell's
   partners in the clothing shop and to outside investors, and to attract
   interest in the venture. Alternatively, Ms. Mitchell is considering
   loan finance made up of a $41,750 two-year loan and a credit line of
   $58,450. In total, about $125,250 will be needed to fund the business
   during the initial months. HISTORY AND POSITION TO DATE Northwind
   Traders, Inc. provides travel-planning services to individuals and
   businesses in the Ggreater SeattleRedmond area. The business is located
   at 1234 Franklin Street, SeattleRedmond, Washington. The Company's
   Mission The goal of Northwind Traders is to be the leading provider of
   hassle-free European adventure vacations to the 25- to 35-year-old
   business professional market. Initially operating in the SeattleRedmond
   area inoutside of Seattle, Washington, Northwind Traders is rapidly
   expanding to sell its services worldwide via the Internet. Travel
   service sales is the fastest growing category of business to consumer
   activity on the Internet, and by the year 2000, the value of this
   market is estimated at $4.500M billion (see Appendix 1, Internet Growth
   and the Sale of Travel Services). Our emphasis will be on providing a
   complete specialized service based on having a detailed knowledge of
   the vacation destination and adventure activities being offered. Market
   research indicates that the major criticism our type of client has of
   existing travel agencies is that their agents ``know nothing about
   their products, they just open the catalogue and read,'' to quote one
   of many disappointed travelers. By capitalizing on our experience in
   the Northwind Traders clothing shop, we will be able to both advise and
   direct our clients to the type of travel equipment they will need to
   get the very best out of their vacation. Management Team and Key
   Personnel Heather Mitchell, President and CEO. Before founding
   Northwind Traders, Ms. Mitchell owned and operated Northwind Traders,
   an outdoor clothing shop in the Seattle area. Prior to that, she
   managed the Olympia branch of one of the larger regional chains of
   general travel agencies operating throughout western Washington, where
   she was responsible for managing the office systems and a staff of
   four. She has a degree in travel and tourism from State University. In
   addition to Ms. Mitchell, team members Jim Kim and Richard Bready will
   be moving into the new venture on a full-time basis, and Amy Egert has
   been recently recruited to cover Saturdays and vacations. Freelance
   business consultant Jae Pak will be advising during the business's
   changeover from clothing shop to adventure travel agency. Jim Kim, Vice
   President Sales and Marketing. Prior to joining Northwind Traders, Mr.
   Kim worked for the marketing department of a major airline. His current
   responsibilities include the company's direct marketing campaign and
   all sales-related issues. Richard Bready, Office Manager. Twenty years
   as a travel agent has given Mr. Bready the ideal background for
   Northwind Traders. A knowledgeable salesperson, Mr. Bready's expertise
   in the area of European travel enables him to entice the adventure
   traveler. Amy Egert, Sales Assistant. After completing her
   undergraduate degree at the Institute of Art, Ms. Egert spent a year
   traveling abroad and joined the staff at Northwind Traders recently as
   a sales assistant. Jae Pak, Business Consultant. With over 20 years of
   consulting experience in industries ranging from aerospace to
   technology to retail, Mr. Pak's knowledge and guidance will be
   instrumental to the success of Northwind Traders. The volunteer members
   of the Board of Directors provide guidance to the management and staff
   of Northwind Traders. The board meets twice yearly to discuss policy
   changes, review the mission statement, and update the business plan if
   needed. Members include Lisa Jacobson, retail store owner Holly
   Barrett, CPA Jo Brown, former travel agent William Hollands, lawyer
   Lisa Garmaise, retail store owner Tony Chor, human resource manager
   Prasanna Samarawickrama, caterer Services We are currently the
   appointed agents for Margie's Travel, a major supplier in the market.
   Currently, Margie's Travel offers some 40 different adventure vacation
   packages throughout Europe, including horse trekking in Iceland;
   above-the-clouds trekking on islands and in remote regions in such
   areas as Corsica and Norway; van-supported inn-to-inn bicycling;
   mountain biking and hiking adventure tours throughout France, Germany,
   Italy, and Austria; and ballooning across the Alps. We intend to be
   appointed agents by three other major adventure travel tour firms with
   whom we are currently in negotiation: Enchantment Lakes Corporation.
   Offers rafting, sea kayaking, and yachting trips around remote European
   rivers and coastline areas, covering such areas as the Adriatic, the
   Black Sea, and Turkey. West Coast Sales. Offers adventure vacation
   packages to corporate clients to use as incentives and rewards, and as
   part of management development programs. They are particularly strong
   in France, Italy, and Germany. Exploration Air. Specializes in
   adventure vacations in Eastern Europe and former Soviet countries,
   covering Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, and Latvia. These are three
   relatively new and small tour operators, but they have acquired a
   reputation for innovation and reliability-and they are currently
   underrepresented. In addition, we will offer a comprehensive range of
   complementary services to support the adventurous traveler, ensuring
   that they will have a safe, enjoyable, and memorable experience. These
   services will include insurance, pre- and postvacation briefing packs,
   and a directory of advice and information services particular to each
   destination and adventure activity. Transportation Systems The
   vacations we will offer will use all principal travel systems,
   including planes, trains, buses, and where appropriate, taxis. We will
   aim for a standard of travel higher than that offered by the general
   travel industry. The feeling we are looking for is definitely not that
   which is engendered by the backpacker market. Company History Five
   years ago Heather Mitchell cofounded Northwind Traders, an outdoor
   clothing shop in SeattleRedmond, Washington. Over the years, Northwind
   Traders has extended its product range to include everything the
   adventurous traveler could want, from tents and sleeping bags to maps,
   guidebooks, and insurance. The clothing shop has sales of $1,420,000
   per year (see Table 1), makes a gross profit of $202,400, and employs
   seven people, either full- or part-time. A mail-order service is now
   provided by catalogue and via a new Web site. Table 1. Northwind
   Traders Clothing Shop Performance Over Past Five Years Year 1 2 3 4
   Last Year Sales $183,700 $422,510 $669,670 $1,023,710 $1,421,170 Gross
   Profit $62,625 $167 $100,701 $133,602 $201,916 Increasingly, shop
   customers have asked for advice on adventurous places to go on
   vacation. Last year Northwind Traders acquired an agency from Margie's
   Travel, one of the largest and most respected tour operators in this
   market, and began to promote and sell their products. In the six months
   that we have been selling travel agency products, some 200 vacation
   packages, at an average cost of $3340, have been sold. Northwind
   Traders' commission on the sales has been $66,800 (10 percent
   commission). In addition, 35 insurance policies have been sold at an
   average price of $167, yielding $1754 (30 percent commission). Heather
   Mitchell, one of Northwind Traders's founding partners, intends to sell
   her shares in the store and to concentrate on setting up the new travel
   business, Northwind Traders. Guarantees and Warranties Our clients will
   be protected financially against either our own or our tour operator's
   failure, by virtue of the ARC bonding held by our principals. We will
   only use vacation providers who can provide 24-hour emergency support
   services for clients while on vacation. Business StructureLegal Status
   Northwind Traders is incorporated under the laws of the state of
   Washington. The company has authorized 10,000 shares, 6000 of which are
   owned by President and CEO Heather Mitchell. Vice President of Sales
   and Marketing Jim Kim owns 1000 shares, and the remaining shares are
   held by the company for future distribution. In the next few weeks, the
   business will be set up as an operation independent from the clothing
   store. This structure will clearly separate the travel business from
   the clothing shop and make it possible to attract the risk capital that
   will be required when the business starts to grow. At a later stage the
   business may wish to sell and issue airline tickets and to create its
   own charter vacations. This will require membership in the ARC (Airline
   Reporting Corporation) and IATAN (International Airlines Travel Agency
   Network). These organizations regulate the collection of money and
   distribution to the appropriate airlines. However, in the period
   covered by this Business Plan we intend to operate only as the
   appointed agents for a number of tour operators. As such we can
   ``shelter'' under their licenses and bonds. MARKET RESEARCHINDUSTRY
   ANALYSIS During the current period of strong economic growth, Northwind
   Traders can capitalize on the many significant opportunities in the
   travel industry. Economic and Social Factors Service industries
   represent the fastest growing sector of the national economy, and
   travel and tourism agencies are poised to flourish in the midst of
   today's economic boom. These services are projected to grow at an
   average annual growth rate of 4.1 percent over the period from 1990 to
   2010 (Appendix 1). The travel and tourism industry thrives in a vital
   economy. The general economic climate in the city of SeattleRedmond is
   very strong. An influx of new businesses has added to the area's
   prosperity, and the already large population of young professionals is
   growing. Nearby, tThe city of Seattle is the center for business in
   King County, with over 400,000 people employed in industries such as
   aerospace, transportation equipment, health services, tourism, computer
   software, and biotechnology. Competitive Environment Currently, tThe
   qualitylevel of service and the number of providers in the travel
   industry constantly fluctuatebroadly uneven, and providers enter and
   leave the field rapidly. Our competitive edge will be in attracting and
   retaining our customers with the most highly trained and well-informed
   individuals we can recruit. With our expertise in European adventure
   vacations, we will be able to provide the most accurate, up-to-date
   information possible. Long-Term Opportunities Tourism in general is on
   the rise (Appendix 1), Europe looks like it will continue to be the
   major destination, and the Internet will be an important channel into
   this market. The state of the economy will be the most influential
   factor in how many people travel. Other driving forces for travel will
   include the cost of tickets, fuel prices, the threat of terrorism, and
   currency rates. Northwind Traders Can Develop Strong Position in Region
   The current lack of industry leaders in the European adventure travel
   industry represents an exceptional opportunity for Northwind Traders to
   develop a dominant presence in the European adventure travel industry
   in the Ggreater SeattleRedmond area. With their exceptional knowledge
   of the adventure travel industry, strong customer base, and competitive
   prices, the company will be well situated to take advantage of the
   region's current economic prosperity. TARGET MARKET ANALYSIS Geographic
   Area Northwind Traders is basedoperates in the SeattleRedmond,
   Washington, area, and targets individuals interested in adventure
   vacations in Europe. The region comprisesgeographic area includes the
   incorporated cities ofof Redmond, Bellevue, and Tacoma and the
   encompassing counties of King, Snohomish, and Pierce. RedmondSeattle
   Bellevue Tacoma and the encompassing counties of King Snohomish Pierce
   Market Size and Description The Ggreater Seattle area - including all
   of King, Pierce, and Snohomish counties - is home to approximately 3
   million people (1994 figure), half of whom fall within our target
   market. Seattle's job rate is climbing at a rate of 10 percent each
   year, and new jobs and growth are expected through the year 2007.
   Seattle has become a world-class destination, and the downtown retail
   and shopping core has grown steadily over the last decade. The
   following major facilities reside in the Ggreater Seattle area: an
   international airport, several major medical centers, and a state
   university, and four other colleges and universities. The percentages
   of employment by industry are as follows: 28 percent services, 25
   percent wholesale and retail, 16 percent manufacturing, 14 percent
   government, 6 percent transportation and communication, 6 percent
   finance and insurance, and 5 percent construction. Target Customers
   Seattle/King County's labor force is highly educated, skilled,
   productive, and stable. It consists of individuals who are deeply
   attached to the area and have tended to stay and wait out past periods
   of economic downturn. The vital economy, the Northwest lifestyle, and
   its unique environmental qualities attract people. Both public
   officials and business leaders recognize the need to keep our labor
   force well equipped with marketable skills. From within this
   population, our target customers are individuals who are professionals
   with incomes of $40,000+,, ages 25 to 35, with incomes of $40,000+,
   single or married, without children, and college educated. Market
   Definition The world travel market is forecast to expand at a 4.1
   percent average annual growth rate until 2010. This is faster than the
   general economic growth rate, which is expected to be around 2.4
   percent per year. The European market, while not the fastest growing,
   will be the most important destination, accounting for over 50 percent
   of all international arrivals (see Appendix 1). Within Europe, France,
   Italy, and Spain are the most popular destinations. This is why we have
   selected tour operators with appropriate products in these areas as our
   initial partners. Figures for the size and projected growth of
   adventure vacations are sketchy, but the figures from one recent study
   (World Adventure Travel Data Corp.) are in Table 2. Table 2. Adventure
   Travel Vacations - World forecast (Million Arrivals): 1990 - 2010
   Destination 1990 1997 2003 2010 Europe 0.25 0.60 1.60 2.35 N. America
   0.45 0.60 1.40 2.20 Rest of World 0.10 0.25 0.95 1.10 Total 0.80 1.45
   3.95 5.65 Age 1990 % 2010 % 16 - 24 61 38 25 - 35 20 31 36 - 45 15 25
   46+ 4 6 100 100 Source: WATD Corp. 1997 Market Opportunities We believe
   that by concentrating on the European travel market, offering a limited
   but extensive range of vacation packages, and targeting our service at
   affluent professionals, we can meet the needs of our clients. Our
   specialized knowledge of Europe and adventure travel will allow us both
   to satisfy our customers and to surpass the services offered by our
   competitors. Our market study (see Appendix 1) has shown that theis
   group composed of affluent professionals has specific needs that are
   not currently being met, as 65 percent of those planning vacations
   would not purchase them from the same source again! Specifically, they
   want their travel agent to have comprehensive knowledge of the
   destination (87 percent); to have an efficient administration system in
   which they can have confidence (84 percent); to go on vacation with
   similar professional people (81 percent); and to be offered useful
   advice and ancillary services such as insurance (79 percent). In
   addition, our market study confirms that Europe is likely to be the
   largest destination market for adventure vacations. Our study shows
   only 30 percent of adventure travelers to be under 24 years of age,
   while the World Adventure Travel Data study claims 61 percent is under
   24. We feel the difference is because our survey sample is confined to
   relatively affluent people who had spent at least $350 on adventure
   clothing (see Appendix 1). One further emerging market segment for
   adventure vacations is that of corporate clients. Our research suggests
   that up to one in five adventure vacations is at this top price end of
   the market. CompetitiveOMPETITIVE AnalysisNALYSIS Northwind Traders is
   the only travel agency located in the Seattle area that is focused on
   European adventure vacations. However, there are many adventure travel
   agents in capital and secondary cities such as RedmondSeattle,
   Bellevue, and Tacoma that compete with Northwind Traders to provide
   adventure vacation packages. These agencies are described below:
   General Travel Agents These agents have added adventure vacations to
   their services, but often have little or no knowledge of adventure
   destinations or activities. They sell literally from the page, offering
   limited advice, information, and support. According to our market
   study, 40 percent of adventure vacations are booked through these
   general travel agents, but only a third of clients would use them
   again. Adventure Tour Operators These tour operators who advertise
   their vacations in the press attract about a quarter of all adventure
   vacation clients. However, clients have to shop around several tour
   operators to find what they want, and clientsthey cannot get unbiased
   advice or much help with information. Only 45 percent would go back to
   a tour operator for their next vacation. Independent Travelers These
   travelers comprise about 15 percent of those going on adventure
   vacations, of whom 65 percent would travel that way again. We need to
   persuade this group that our superior product knowledge and service is
   worth their consideration. Internet Providers These providers sell only
   5 percent of adventure travel vacations; however, 70 percent of
   adventure travelers would buy their next vacation via the Internet.
   There is plenty of scope to offer a superior Web site. We believe that
   by having daily face-to-face contact with clients, we will be better
   able to manage a fresh, vital, and relevant Web site aimed at the
   specific needs of our market segment. Specialist Adventure Travel
   Agencies These agencies sell only about 15 percent of travel packages
   at present, but we feel this is partially due to lack of client
   awareness and to the comparative rarity of such outlets. We will
   differentiate ourselves from our competitors by offering the most
   extensive material available from the most up-to-date, well-informed
   staff. Clients will return for our service, knowledge and competitive
   prices. These findings are some of the most powerful results of our
   research. While general travel agents may be the most likely resource
   for those travelers taking an adventure vacation, they are in fact the
   least likely place those clients will return to. And tAlthough
   specialist adventure travel agents, such as the business we are setting
   up, account for only 15 percent of the market, 65 percent of clients
   would use them again. We aim to increase this percentage through our
   superior service. Competitive Advantages Some 65 percent of those
   clients using specialist adventure vacation travel agents would use
   them again - many more than would use either a direct tour operator
   direct or a general travel agent. However, these agents were criticized
   for having such a wide range of activities and destinations that their
   sales agents knew little about them. Our research shows that while 41
   percent of clients take adventure vacations in Europe, only 23 percent
   of the 5000 adventure tours offered are for European destinations. We
   feel that by concentrating on European destinations, which is the
   largest market for both vacations in general and adventure vacations in
   particular, we will be able to have superior product knowledge. We will
   need to know only perhaps 100 destinations and activities well, rather
   than have only a passing knowledge of the 5000 adventure vacations
   available. Our market research has also shown that many adventure
   travel agents are catering to the backpacker market, consisting mostly
   of individuals who are under 24 years of age and are generally very
   cost conscious. This can lead to very different types of clients ending
   up at the same destination, with some consequent dissatisfaction. It is
   also noteworthy that t The backpacker market requires a much lower
   level of service and information than does the market for the more
   affluent 25- to 35-year-old professional. 25-35 year old market.
   Competitors' Positions The two major competitors of Northwind Traders
   are Lakes & Sons and Ferguson and Bardell, and Lakes & Sons. Ferguson
   and Bardell is the strongest competitor of Northwind Traders, due to
   its strong client base and experienced owner. However, itstheir press
   releases are of a very low quality, and itstheir location is
   undesirable, with difficult parking and limited customer service space.
   In addition, Ferguson and Bardell lacks the knowledge and expertise in
   the field of European adventure travel that is valued so highly by the
   clientele of Northwind Traders. Lakes & Sons will be a formidable
   competitor for Northwind Traders because of itstheir prime location,
   well-established business, and extensive training program. Potential
   Future Competition Northwind Traders will occupy a specialized niche in
   the travel industry, with its focus on adventure vacations in Europe.
   Although they areit is currently the only European adventure travel
   agency located in the SeattleRedmond area, there are competitors do
   exist in nearby areas (see above). In order to stay competitive,
   Northwind Traders will need to establish itself as the leader in
   adventure travel planning for Europe with its superior product
   knowledge and high-quality service. The lack of current adventure
   travel providers in the area represents a unique opportunity for
   Northwind Traders to expand in a rapidly growing market. BUSINESS
   STRATEGYMARKETING & SALES PLANNING With Northwind Traders' expertise in
   European adventure travel, we can create customized travel itineraries
   for our clients and provide the most thorough, informative adventure
   travel service available. By offering superior customer service,
   Northwind Traders can distinguish itself from its competitors. Customer
   Incentives Our market research shows that publicity has the greatest
   impact on people's choice of an adventure vacation travel agent,
   followed closely by having the right location, and having a
   recommendation from a friend, relative, or colleague. General press
   advertising seems to be fairly ineffective in this sector, and event
   specialist press advertising only brings in one out of seven clients.
   (See Appendix 1, Summary of Findings from Market Research.) Advertising
   and Promotion Our advertising and promotions will pivot around six key
   strategies: public relations, our shop front, an Internet Web site,
   customer relations, press advertising, and our association with the
   Northwind Traders clothing store. Public relations. We will put
   considerable effort into preparing and disseminating a regular flow of
   press releases. These will be based on stories about our destinations,
   activities, corporate clients, and our staff. We will employuse a
   freelance public relations adviser to help us write copy and locate
   publications editors. Shop front. We plan to have an exciting,
   informative, and actively managed display window. There will be a video
   display showing adventure vacations in progress. Different destinations
   can be selected from outside the window via a control panel;,
   otherwise, the scenes will rotate on a random basis. Internet Web site.
   This is fast becoming a major promotional channel, and we believe it
   will increase in importance over time. Also, it is the most convenient
   way for us to have a global presence at the outset. (See Appendix 1,
   Internet Growth and the Sale of Travel Services.) Customer relations.
   We will keep records of every sales contact. Data such as source of
   inquiry, client needs, previous vacation, job, and income will be
   included. By having superior information on our clients and prospects,
   we intend to offer a truly personalized service. Our database will
   contain full details on all our clients, including the vacations they
   have taken and their postvacation appraisal data. We will use this data
   to encourage our satisfied customers to recommend our services to
   friends, relatives, colleagues, and employers. Press advertising. We
   will undertake a small amount of specialist press advertising in order
   to enhance our public relations activity. There is considerable
   research to support the argument that the more often a potential client
   hears about you, the more likely they are to approach you when they
   have a need for your type of service. Northwind Traders association. We
   will write to all past shop clients announcing the establishment of the
   travel business and offer them a special introductory adventure
   vacation package. Sales and Marketing Excellent selling skills are
   vital in our type of business. Therefore, everyone will be fully
   trained in sales. Additionally, every month we will ``audit'' each
   other by observing half-a-day's selling activity and giving feedback on
   strengths and weaknesses in skills. We will also be using a ``contact
   management'' system that will allow us to monitor the effectiveness of
   different promotional strategies and of different marketing messages.
   The key to our strategic advantage lies in having superior data on
   prospects and clients. Commission The normal commission paid to travel
   agents for this type of vacation is in the 10 percent to 15 percent
   range. While Margie's Travel, the first agency we have been appointed
   to, pays us at the lower end of the scale, they are a prestigious firm
   to represent. Having them in our portfolio will enable us to negotiate
   much higher commissions from our new principals. Accordingly, we are
   planning on an average travel agency commission of 11 percent, rising
   to 13 percent by the end of Year Three. Commission on insurance and
   other services will be 30 percent, throughout. Guarantees and Customer
   Protection Our clients will be protected financially against either our
   own or our tour operator's failure, by virtue of the ARC bonding held
   by our principals. We will only use vacation providers who can provide
   24-hour emergency support services for clients while on vacation.
   OPERATIONS Premises It is vital that the travel business has both a
   storefront facing onto the main street and a visible separate entrance.
   The goal is for clothing shop clients to be able to move between the
   premises without going outside. We will be renting 2000 square meters
   of fully serviced space at a cost of $30,060 per year fully serviced.
   We will need to spend $25,050 on internal refurbishing. We plan to do
   some of this work ourselves. An additional $4175 will be needed for
   desks, chairs, and other office furnishings. Choice of Location and
   Premises We intend to locate within the existing Northwind Traders
   shop, sinceas this is close to the city center with a high density of
   both residential and business premises. The pavement is wide, so people
   can stand and look in the window without being in the way of other
   pedestrians. Opening Hours of Operation The telephone lines will be
   staffed 24 hours a day by live operators. During the period from 9 am
   to 6 pm, this will be done mostly by our staff. However, overload calls
   during the day and afterout-of-hours calls will go to our live
   telemarketing bureau. People consider vacation decisions at home in the
   evenings after discussion with friends and partners. We want to be
   available as their first point of contact with an informed, friendly
   service. We believe that since our clients will mostly be busy
   professional people, off-peak- hours access to our services is also a
   key way in which we can differentiate ourselves from other travel
   agencies. Equipment We will be renting an integrated
   telephone/data-base system from the outset. This will allow up to ten
   sales staff to answer calls and have full on-screen data on clients and
   products. As service is one of our key components, it is essential that
   we have full access to all relevant data speedily and efficiently.
   Staffing From the outset all staff will have job descriptions, a career
   and training history file, and a record of employee reviews. New staff
   will take the travel agency Psychometric Aptitude Test, and then spend
   time with each member of the Northwind Traders team. All staff will
   undergo full product training, and will spend at least four weeks a
   year on-site at key travel destinations. Our dress code will require us
   to look as though we are on our way to one of our adventure vacations.
   We plan to start with a staff of three full-time employees, including
   the founder, and one part-timer. We plan to be operating with a staff
   of thirteen during the fifth year of business. With this system we can
   review our sales and marketing activities on a regular basis. Thus we
   will be ableQuality Control We will be developing outline scripts to
   help the sales staff manage inquiries. This will ensure that all
   incoming phone calls are dealt with in the same way and meet a high
   standard. We will encourage people inquiring about vacations to give us
   feedback on: Our ability to handle their inquiry The amount of time
   from the client's first inquiry to the date of actual travel The
   client's reactions to the vacation in terms of whether it meets their
   expectations New Tour Operators Heather Mitchell will be responsible
   for reviewing the range of tour operators that we seek to represent,
   and negotiating with prospective new principals. Capacity Our offices
   can accommodate five sales desks. Each sales desk has a capacity to
   handle four clients per hour, which means over the year we could handle
   up to 40,000 inquiries. With our average sales rate of one in five, we
   could service 9600 clients from our present facilities. This is well
   above the numbers we are anticipating in the business plan. MANAGEMENT
   & ORGANIZATION Key Employees Heather Mitchell, President and CEO.
   Before founding Northwind Traders, Ms. Mitchell owned and operated
   Northwind Traders, an outdoor clothing shop in the Redmond area. Prior
   to that, she managed the Olympia branch of one of the larger regional
   chains of general travel agencies operating throughout western
   Washington, where she was responsible for managing the office systems
   and a staff of four. She has a degree in travel and tourism from State
   University. In addition to Ms. Mitchell, team members Jim Kim and
   Richard Bready will be moving into the new venture on a full-time
   basis, and Amy Egert has been recently recruited to cover Saturdays and
   vacations. Freelance business consultant Jae Pak will be advising
   during the business's changeover from clothing shop to adventure travel
   agency. Jim Kim, Vice President Sales and Marketing. Prior to joining
   Northwind Traders, Mr. Kim worked for the marketing department of a
   major airline. His current responsibilities include the company's
   direct marketing campaign and all sales related issues. Richard Bready,
   Office Manager. Twenty years as a travel agent has given Mr. Bready the
   ideal background for Northwind Traders. A knowledgeable salesperson,
   Mr. Bready's expertise in the area of European travel enables him to
   entice the adventure traveler. Amy Egert, Sales Assistant. After
   completing her undergraduate degree at the Institute of Art, Ms. Egert
   spent a year traveling abroad and joined the staff at Northwind Traders
   recently as a sales assistant. Jae Pak, Business Consultant. With over
   twenty years of consulting experience in industries ranging from
   aerospace to technology to retail, Mr. Pak's knowledge and guidance
   will be instrumental to the success of Northwind Traders. (Heather
   Mitchell's CV is in Appendix 3) Board of Directors The volunteer
   members of the Board of Directors provide guidance to the management
   and staff of Northwind Traders. The board meets twice yearly to discuss
   policy changes, review the mission statement, and update the business
   plan if needed. Members include: Lisa Jacobson, retail store owner
   Holly Barrett, CPA Jo Brown, former travel agent William Hollands,
   Lawyer Lisa Garmaise, retail store owner Tony Chor, human resource
   manager Prasanna Samarawickrama, caterer Long-Term Goals Northwind
   Traders plans to grow steadily over the next five years, becoming the
   premier provider of European adventure vacations in the greater Redmond
   area. Our financial objectives are to be operating at or close to
   break-even cash flow by the end of the first year. We aim to be
   profitable from Year One onward; our goal is to earn at least $300,000
   post tax profit in the Year Two, and nearly $500,000 in Year Three. Our
   profit margin on sales by Year Three will be a respectable 7 percent.
   Strategy for Achieving Goals Extensive public relations campaign
   Recruit well-trained, enthusiastic staff Deliver superior product
   knowledge Provide high quality customer service Create library of
   tools/reference materials for clients Offer competitive pricing on
   vacation packages The first priority is to hire a competent public
   relations consultant. This individual will be the key to producing
   state-of-the art publicity materials and determining where these
   materials should be placed for optimum visibility. The second priority
   will be to increase the staff. The individuals recruited will go
   through an extensive training program to ensure that they will be able
   to provide superior product knowledge in the field of European
   adventure travel. The present staff is passionate about adventure
   vacations, and we intend to maintain their enthusiasm through constant
   product development and skill training. We will only recruit those
   individuals who share our vision. We also want the business to have an
   enjoyable atmosphere. The third priority is to install a library of
   reference works in the shop. These materials will be available for
   clients to browse through while in the shop, or to ``check out'' and
   peruse at home. An agent will be on hand at all times to answer any
   questions. Position While at present we are offering only other
   company's adventure vacations, we have protected our position in a
   number of ways. First, we have a two-year agency agreement with
   Margie's Travel, which gives us access to all their existing vacation
   products as well as any new ones. This contract is dependent on
   Northwind Traders achieving sales of at least 250 vacation packages a
   year. We intend to negotiate similar agreements with future suppliers,
   although sales targets with them will be lower to reflect their
   relative market position. Second, we intend to maintain a high service
   element to our business, extending our range of value added services
   such as vacation insurance, individualized prevacation booklets,
   postvacation follow-up, and continually updating our client database.
   In this way, we will seek to build up a high level of repeat business.
   Customer loyalty is vital to our profitable growth. Risks Associated
   with Growth Losing touch with customers Loss of clientele to other
   providers Quality of services diminished New businesses The risks
   facing the expansion of Northwind Traders can be summed up in one word:
   competition. In order to sustain our position in the area as the
   premiere European adventure travel business, Northwind Traders needs to
   outshine our competition. By maintaining our focus on superior product
   knowledge and outstanding customer service, we will be able to uphold
   our position in the industry, thereby retaining current clients and
   attracting new clients. FORECASTING Sales Forecast Our ratio of sales
   to inquiries ofn the adventure travel vacations sold to date, while
   operating within the outdoor clothing shop, has been one in three. For
   the purposes of our sales forecast, we are assuming that only one in
   five inquiries will actually result in an adventure vacation being
   booked. This is a very conservative estimate. We expect there to be a
   steady buildup of clients coming from the clothing shop to talk to us
   about vacations (see Table 3 below). However, the number of new
   inquiries generated by our promotional activity will also build up
   during the year, gradually overtaking inquiries from the clothinges
   shop. This is a trend we expect to continue. Based on the projection
   below, we are forecasting to sell 660 adventure travel vacations next
   year at an average price of $3549. Once insurance and other service
   sales are added in, we expect to generate a gross profitn income of
   $268,783 over the first 12 months. Table 3. Sales Forecast Projection
   Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Year Total Inquiries generated through promotion 200 425
   425 750 1800 Shop inquiries 300 300 450 450 1500 Total inquiries 500
   725 875 1200 3300 Vacations sold 100 145 175 240 660 Average vacations
   cost $3340 $3340 $3758 $3758 $3549 Commission received $33,400 $48,430
   $72,331 $98,757 $252,918 Commission on insurance & other services
   received $1670 $3340 $5010 $5845 $15,865 Total commission & fees earned
   $35,070 $51,770 $77,341 $104,602 $268,783 In Year Two we are
   forecasting a gross profitcommissions of $624,318, and in Year Three we
   plan to reach $986,846. Cash Flow Projections The Cash Flow projections
   for Year One (see Appendix 2) show that after the owner has put in
   $41,750, the business will need additional short-term financing of
   about $83,500. For the last two months of the year, we are forecasting
   a positive cumulative cash flow and a year-end cash surplus of $19,935.
   In our Cash Flow projection, we have assumed the whole $83,500
   additional financing has come from a bank loan. We have allowed for
   interest on the full amount for the whole period. In practice we would
   hope to finance part of this at least by a line of credit equal to the
   money actually required. In this way we believe we have made a prudent,
   conservative provision. Income Statement We expect to make a small
   after- tax profit of $34,901 in the first year of $34,901 (see Appendix
   2 and Table 4 below). This is before the owner's drawings. Any owner's
   drawings will be contingent on performance being better than that
   expected in the Plan. Table 4. Profits in Years One to Three will be
   Year One Year Two Year Three Sales 2,364,839 5,202,645 7,591,132 Less
   cost of sales 2,096,056 4,578,327 6,604,286 Gross profit 268,783
   624,318 986,846 Less expenses 224,740 243,4043 345,690 Net income
   before taxes 44,043 380,9145 641,156 Provision for taxes 9142 76,184
   145,751 Net income after taxes $34,901 $304,7301 $495,405 Balance Sheet
   The Balance Sheet at the end of Year One (see Appendix 2) shows a
   healthy surplus of current assets over current liabilities. We have
   shown a conservative funding position, which does not include any of
   the additional capital that we hope to secure. Performance Ratios We
   plan to move our gross profit up from 11 percent in Year One, to 13
   percent in Year Three. These figures look quite low, but it should be
   remembered that our gross profitincome is really the sales commission
   we earn, not the full price of an adventure vacation. Our net income
   before taxes is a more accurate measure of performance. This we expect
   to move from 2 percent at the outset, up to 8 percent by Year Three.
   Commission generated and profit per employee will be among the highest
   in the industry. Table 5. Commission Generated and Profit per Employee
   Year One Year Two Year Three Gross profit % 11 12 13 Net income before
   taxes % 2 7 8 Commission generated per employee $76,795 $138,737
   $164,473 Profit per employee $12,584 $69,257 $106,858 Break-Even To
   break even we will need to sell between 2 and 3 vacations per day. This
   compares with our present sales of 1.3 vacations per day, based on our
   part-time effort out of the clothing shop. We feel confident that the
   break-even point can be attained within a reasonable period of time.
   Funds Required and Timing We plan to make two major investments: one in
   Web site and database development and one in shop premises development.
   make are the: Web site and data base development - this will cost
   $41,325750. The data base system is one of our key differentiators. It
   will allow us to offer superior service and ensure a high level of
   repeat business and referrals. The Web site is vital if we are to reach
   this wide and disparate global market. The group of potential clients
   we have chosen as our target market - , affluent, professional 25- to
   35- year olds - , are prime users of the Internet. Even those people in
   our locality will expect to be able to research our offers on the
   Internet before coming to the shop. (See Appendix 1, Internet Growth
   and the Sale of Travel Services ) Shop premises development - this will
   cost us $29,225. We have to look professional and to have an efficient
   work environment. If our staff do not have the right tools, we can
   hardly expect them to deliver superior performance. If clients see
   ``amateur'' premises, they will not be inspired to spend thousands of
   dollars and entrust their adventure vacation plans to us. Both these
   investments need to be made at the outset to ensure that the business
   creates the right impression from the start. We get only one chance to
   make a first impression. We have decided to lease our telephone and
   computer systems, sinceas this is a rapidly changing area and we need
   to have access to the very latest technology. Financing packages from
   equipment suppliers are currently very attractive. Funding Options The
   owner plans to invest $41,750 of her own money (the proceeds of the
   sale of her share of the clothing shop business). The cash flow
   projections show that the business will require $83,500 of working
   capital during the early months of the first year's operations. We
   think we should provide an additional $10,020 for unforeseen
   eventualities. We are considering In the event that additional funds
   prove necessary, we have identified two options for raising further
   fundsthis $93,520: Option 1: The sale of equity, perhaps to the
   original shop partners, could raise between $41,750 and $167,000. This
   would provide some capital to allow for growth. Any shortfall could be
   funded either by a line of credit or a bank loan. Option 2: Approach
   our bank with a view to raising a medium- term loan of $41,750 and a
   line of credit of $58,450. Heather Mitchell could, with family help,
   provide any lender with security for part, if not all, of this
   facility. Financial We will be using a computer-based financial
   management system. This will allow us to analyze the profitability of
   sales of different vacations through each tour operator. In this way we
   can review our sales and marketing activities on a regular basis. It
   will also allow us to reward staff on the basis of profit achieved
   rather than just on sales. BUSINESS CONTROLS Accounting System We will
   be using a computer-based financial management system. With this system
   we can review our sales and marketing activities on a regular basis.
   This will allow us to analyze the profitability of sales of different
   vacations through each tour operator. Thus we will be able to reward
   staff on the basis of profit achieved rather than just on sales.
   Quality Control We will be developing outline scripts to help the sales
   staff manage inquiries. This will ensure that all incoming phone calls
   are dealt with in the same way and meet a high standard. We will
   encourage people inquiring about vacations to give us feedback on our
   service: Our ability to handle their inquiry The amount of time from
   the client's first inquiry to the date of actual travel The client's
   reactions to the vacation in terms of whether it meets their
   expectations New Tour Operators Heather Mitchell will be responsible
   for reviewing the range of tour operators that we seek to represent and
   negotiating with prospective new principals. Capacity Our offices can
   accommodate five sales desks. Each sales desk has a capacity to handle
   four clients per hour, which means over the course of a year, we could
   handle up to 40,000 inquiries. With our average sales rate of one in
   five, we could service 9600 clients from our present facilities. This
   is well above the numbers we are anticipating in the business plan.
   Long-Term Goals Northwind Traders plans to grow steadily over the next
   five years, becoming the premier provider of European adventure
   vacations in the Greater Seattle area. OurThe financial objectives of
   Northwind Traders are to be operating at or close to break-even cash
   flow by the end of the first year, with steady growth over the next
   five years. We aim to be profitable from Year One onward; our goal is
   to earn at least $304,000 posttax profit in Year Two and nearly
   $496,000 in Year Three. Our profit margin on sales by Year Three will
   be a respectable 7 percent. Steps for Achieving Goals Northwind
   Traders' strategy for achieving our goals consists of six major points:
   Establish an extensive public relations campaign Recruit well-trained,
   enthusiastic staff Deliver superior product knowledge Provide
   high-quality customer service Create a library of tools/reference
   materials for clients Offer competitive pricing on vacation packages
   The first step to achieving our goals is to hire a competent public
   relations agency. This will be the key to producing state-of-the art
   publicity materials and determining where these materials should be
   placed for optimum visibility. The second step will be to increase the
   staff. The individuals recruited will go through an extensive training
   program to ensure that they will be able to provide superior product
   knowledge in the field of European adventure travel. The present staff
   is passionate about adventure vacations, and we intend to maintain
   their enthusiasm through constant product development and skill
   training. We will only recruit those individuals who share our vision.
   We also want the business to have an enjoyable atmosphere. The third
   step is to install a library of reference works in the shop. These
   materials will be available for clients to browse through while in the
   shop or to ``check out'' and peruse at home. An agent will be on hand
   at all times to answer any questions. Position While at present we are
   offering only other company's adventure vacations, we have protected
   our position in a number of ways. First, we have a two-year agency
   agreement with Margie's Travel, which gives us access to all their
   existing vacation products as well as any new ones. This contract is
   dependent on Northwind Traders achieving sales of at least 250 vacation
   packages a year. We intend to negotiate similar agreements with future
   suppliers, although sales targets with them will be lower to reflect
   their relative market position. Second, we intend to maintain a high
   service element to our business, extending our range of value-added
   services such as vacation insurance, individualized prevacation
   booklets, postvacation follow-up, and continually updating our client
   database. In this way, we will seek to build up a high level of repeat
   business. Customer loyalty is vital to our profitable growth. Risks
   Associated with Growth We see some risks associated with our expected
   growth: Losing touch with customers Loss of clientele to other
   providers Quality of services diminished New businesses The risks
   facing the expansion of Northwind Traders can be summed up in one word:
   competition. In order to sustain our position in the area as the
   premier agency for European adventure travel, Northwind Traders needs
   to outshine its competition. By maintaining our focus on superior
   product knowledge and outstanding customer service, we will be able to
   uphold our position in the industry, thereby retaining current clients
   and attracting new clients. APPENDIX 1: MARKET RESEARCH International
   Arrivals by World Region Updated forecast for the years 2000 and 2010
   (millions) 1975 1995 1996 2000 2010 Average annual growth rate (%) 1990
   - 2010 Europe 153.8 338.2 347.4 397 525 3.1 East Asia/Pacific 8.7 84.5
   90.1 122 229 7.6 Americas 50.0 110.1 115.5 138 195 3.7 Africa 4.7 18.7
   19.4 25 37 4.6 Middle East 3.6 11.3 15.1 14 21 4.9 South Asia 1.6 4.5
   4.5 6 11 6.7 World total 222.3 567.4 592.1 702 1,018 4.1 Source: Global
   Stats. Corp. 1997 Indications of Tourism Demand in 1997 International
   tourist arrivals (x 1,000) Nights spent by foreign tourists (Mill)
   International tourism receipts (Mill. ECU) Austria 17,173 63.8 11,168
   Belgium 5560 12.8 4776 Denmark 1614 10.8 2814 Finland 835 3.3 1320
   France 60,110 54.3 20,742 Germany 14,847 35.5 12,408 Greece 10,130 39.6
   3138 Ireland 4231 14.0 2059 Italy 31,052 113.0 20,993 Luxembourg 767
   2.3 4776 Netherlands 6574 19.7 4946 Portugal 9706 22.2 3330 Spain
   44,886 107.8 19,431 Sweden 683 7.9 2652 United Kingdom 22,700 164.9
   14,366 EU 230,868 672.0 124,143 Iceland 190 0.8 127 Liechtenstein 59
   0.1 n/a Norway 2880 7.1 1826 EEA 233,997 680.0 126,096 Switzerland
   11,500 34.0 7236 Europe-19 245,497 714.0 133,332 Source: Global Stats.
   Corp. 1997 Summary of Findings from Market Research Survey Three
   hundred clients of Northwind Traders who had made purchases in excess
   of $350 in the past six months were surveyed. Percentage of Sample
   Customers Taking and Not Taking Adventure Vacations According to our
   research, only 20 percent of our sample customers had never taken or
   considered taking an adventure vacation. Thirty percent, while they had
   not yet taken such a vacation, had at least actively considered doing
   so. Fifty percent of our sample are regular adventure travelersusers,
   taking at least one adventure vacation each year. Information About 150
   Respondents Who Took At Least One travel Vacation Per Year Gender: Male
   65% Female 35% Status: Married 21% Single 79% Adventure Vacation
   Travelers, by Age and Percent According to our study, the percentages
   of adventure vacation travelers in fall into various age groups as
   follows: 5% are under the age of 16 25% are between the ages of 16
   toand 24 40% are between the ages of 25 toand 35 20% are between the
   ages of 36 toand 45 10% are over the age of 45 Percentage of Adventure
   Vacation Travelers by Income Group According to our research, the
   percentages of adventure vacation travelers in various income brackets
   are as follows: 6% earn less than $16,700 or less annually 22% earn
   between $16,701 and $25,050 annually 28% earn between $25,051 and
   $33,400 annually 25% earn between $33,401 and $41,750 annually 19% earn
   more than $41,750 annually Forty-five percent of respondents taking
   adventure vacations spend in excess of $3340 per person per vacation.
   Twenty percent of the respondents, who tend to be professionals in the
   25- to 35-year age range, typically spend over $5010 per person. Those
   respondents spending under $3340 are both in the lower income and lower
   age groups and represent 10 percent of the respondents. Percentage by
   Destination of 5000 Major Adventure Tours Available on the Market A
   study by destination of approximately 5000 major adventure tours on the
   market reveals the following: 1200 of the 5000 offered are for
   destinations in Europe 1000 of the 5000 offered are for destinations in
   North America 600 of the 5000 offered are for destinations in India 810
   of the 5000 offered are for destinations in Africa 675 of the 5000
   offered are for destinations in the Far East 675 of the 5000 offered
   are for other destinations By contrast, the percentages of the market
   adventure travelers devoted purchasing vacation packages to each of
   these regions destinations is are as follows: Europe - 41% of adventure
   travelers purchase vacation packages for destinations in Europe North
   America - 30% of adventure travelers purchase vacation packages for
   destinations in North America India - 10% of adventure travelers
   purchase vacation packages for destinations in India Africa 7% of
   adventure travelers purchase vacation packages for destinations in
   Africa Far East - 7% of adventure travelers purchase vacation packages
   for destinations in the Far East other destinations - 5% of adventure
   travelers purchase vacation packages for destinations in other regions
   Our research shows that Europe is the most popular destination for
   adventure vacation travelersakers. However, only 1200 of the 5000
   adventure tours on the market are for European destinations. Africa,
   which only attracts 7 percent of the market, has 16 percent of the
   tours aimed at it. It follows that the European market has scope for
   expansion and that if we concentrate on that market, we only need to
   have detailed knowledge of upmarket European tours, rather than all
   5000. In that way we can have the advantage of superior knowledge in
   our chosen market. Percentage by Source from which Traveler Heard About
   Last Adventure Vacation Our research reveals the following about the
   source from which adventure travelers originally found out about the
   last adventure vacation they purchased: publicity activity - 30% heard
   about their vacation package through publicity activity travel agent -
   25% heard about their vacation package through a travel agent friend -
   18% heard about their vacation package through a friend adventure press
   - 15% heard about their vacation package through adventure press press
   advertising - 8% heard about their vacation package through press
   advertising Internet - 4% heard about their vacation package through
   the Internet These findings demonstrate the power of publicity. The
   next most effective way to reach potential clients is via the travel
   agent's shop window. Both the press in general and the adventure travel
   press do not appear to have much effect on buyers in this market. The
   percentagemajority of respondents who have not been on an adventure
   vacation organized by their employer far outnumbers those who have been
   on a vacation planned by their employer. There is a significant
   minority of corporate clients who buy adventure vacations to use as
   rewards, motivation, or as a part of a management development program.
   These corporate customers are also those clients who spend over $5010
   per person per tour. NORTHWIND TRADERS QUESTIONNAIRE (Your replies are
   anonymous so confidentiality is assured) 1. Gender: (Male (Female
   Married: (Yes (No Children ( Yes ( No Age: ( Under 16 Income: ( Under
   $16,700 ( 16 - 24 ( $16,701-$25,050 ( 25 - 35 ( $25,051-$33,400 ( 36 -
   45 ( $33,401-$41,750 ( 45+ ( over $41,750 Occupation:
   Self:..................................................................
   . Partner:.............................................................
   2. How many adventure vacations have you taken in the past three years?
   ( None - never considered taking one ( Considered, but not yet taken a
   vacation ( Taken one adventure vacation ( Taken two adventure vacations
   ( Take at least one adventure vacation every year If you take adventure
   vacations, how much do you spend per head per vacation? ( Under $1670 (
   $1671-$3340 ( $3341-$5010 ( Over $5010 4. Who did you buy your last
   adventure vacation from? Would you use that source again? ( Traveled
   independently ( Yes ( No ( Directly from the tour operator ( Yes ( No (
   Via the Internet ( Yes ( No ( From a specialist adventure travel agent
   ( Yes ( No ( From a general travel agent ( Yes ( No 5. How did you hear
   about the last adventure vacation that you took? ( From a
   friend/colleague/relative ( Via an advertisement in general press ( Via
   the Internet ( Saw it in the travel agent's window ( Via an
   advertisement in specialist adventure travel press ( Editorial in
   press/TV/radio 6. What impressed you most about the people you bought
   your last adventure vacation from? Ranking for level of impression (1 =
   excellent, 4 = useless) Ranking for importance of factor (1 = very
   high, 4 = quite unimportant) ( Knowledge of activity ( ( Knowledge of
   destination ( ( Range of helpful advice ( ( Additional services, such
   as insurance ( 7. What did you dislike most about the last adventure
   travel vacation that you took? ( The other people on the vacation were
   not compatible (e.g. much older, /younger, or had very different
   competence levels) ( Too expensive ( The travel agent/tour operator did
   not properly explain the true nature of the vacation ( The
   administrative arrangements were poor - I had to do all the chasing! 8.
   What was the destination of your last adventure travel vacation? (
   Europe ( Asia ( N. America ( Other ( Africa ( India 9. If you have
   never taken an adventure vacation would you consider taking one from a
   reputable travel agent with proven expertise in this market? ( Yes ( No
   10. Have you ever been on an adventure vacation organized by your
   employer? ( Yes ( No Thank you for your help with our research. We hope
   thisit will help Northwind Traders to bring you more exciting adventure
   vacations. Internet Growth and the Sale of Travel Services Sales of
   travel services on the Internet have risen steadily over the past
   several years and look to continue increasing through the year 2000.
   These sales far outweigh other Internet sales, including PC sales of
   software and hardware, clothing sales, and book sales. For example, in
   1998, sales of travel services totaled $1.4 billion00M, while PC
   products equaled $1.0 billion00M, books $400 million0M, and clothing
   $250 million0M. It is also evident that the European users of the
   Internet are growing rapidly. The United Kingdom is the second largest
   Internet user market after Germany, followed in decreasing order by the
   Netherlands, France, Finland, Italy, and Spain. Percentage of Internet
   Users Who Have Shopped Online, 1998, in Millions When it comes to
   actually using the Internet for online shopping, Finland leads the way,
   with Germany and the United Kingdom sitting squarely in the middle,
   close to the European average. The percentage of Internet users, by
   region, who have shopped online in 1998 are as follows: Finland - 69%
   of Internet users in Finland have shopped online% the Netherlands - 43%
   of Internet users in the Netherlands have shopped online Germany - 41%
   of Internet users in Germany have shopped online United Kingdom - 38%
   of Internet users in the United Kingdom have shopped online Italy - 33%
   of Internet users in Italy have shopped online Spain - 31% of Internet
   users in Spain have shopped online France - 29% of Internet users in
   France have shopped online The average percentage of European Internet
   users who have shopped online in 1998 is 41 percent. APPENDIX 2:
   FINANCIAL FORECASTS Cash Flow Projection Year One Cash Flow Forecast -
   12 Months Month: Pre-Start 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Totals Receipts
   Cash Sales 10,020 10,855 12,525 14,195 15,865 18,370 21,710 24,215
   26,406 28,808 33,066 216,035 Collections from Credit Sales 251 418 501
   501 585 752 752 1,002 1,002 1,166 6,930 New Equity Inflow 0 Loans
   Received 16,700 8,350 8,350 8,350 41,750 Other 0 Total Receipts 0
   16,700 10,020 11,106 21,293 14,696 16,366 27,305 22,462 24,967 35,758
   29,810 34,232 264,715 Payments Cash Purchases 401 326 166 131 237 166
   149 149 166 113 113 167 2,284 Payments to Creditors 1,203 978 499 392
   713 499 446 446 499 339 339 503 6,856 Salaries and Wages 6,304 5,120
   2,620 2,058 3,728 2,620 2,336 2,336 2,620 1,780 1,780 2,631 35,933
   Employee Benefits 3,152 2,560 1,310 1,029 1,864 1,310 1,168 1,168 1,310
   890 890 1,315 17,966 Payroll Taxes 1,051 853 437 343 621 437 389 389
   437 297 297 438 5,989 Rent 5,253 4,267 2,183 1,715 3,107 2,183 1,947
   1,947 2,183 1,483 1,483 2,192 29,943 Utiltities 1,021 830 425 333 604
   425 379 379 425 288 288 426 5,823 Repairs and Maintenance 584 474 243
   191 345 243 216 216 243 165 165 244 3,329 Insurance 1,021 830 425 333
   604 425 379 379 425 288 288 426 5,823 Travel 1,240 1,007 515 405 734
   515 460 460 515 350 350 518 7,069 Telephone 1,043 847 434 341 617 434
   387 387 434 295 295 435 5,949 Postage 438 358 182 143 259 182 162 162
   182 124 124 183 2,499 Office Supplies 949 770 394 310 561 394 352 352
   394 268 268 396 5,408 Advertising (delete row) 0 Marketing and
   Advertising 6,938 5,635 2,883 2,265 4,103 2,883 2,571 2,571 2,883 1,959
   1,959 2,895 39,545 Professional Fees 5,439 4,418 2,261 1,776 3,217
   2,261 2,016 2,016 2,261 1,536 1,536 2,270 31,007 Training and
   Development 1,751 1,422 728 572 1,036 728 649 649 728 494 494 731 9,982
   Bank Charges 26 21 11 9 16 11 10 10 11 7 7 11 150 Miscellaneous 0 0 0 0
   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Owner's Drawings 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Loan
   Repayments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tax Payments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
   0 0 Capital Purchases 25,050 0 4,175 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29,225 Other -
   Database and Web Site 0 0 0 10,000 0 0 10,000 0 0 21,325 0 0 41,325
   Total Payments 0 62,864 30,716 19,891 22,346 22,366 15,716 24,016
   14,016 15,716 32,001 10,676 15,781 286,105 Cashflow Surplus/Deficit (-)
   0 (46,164) (20,696) (8,785) (1,053) (7,670) 650 3,289 8,446 9,251 3,757
   19,134 18,451 (21,390) Opening Cash Balance 0 0 (46,164) (66,860)
   (75,645) (76,698) (84,368) (83,718) (80,429) (71,983) (62,732) (58,975)
   (39,841) Closing Cash Balance 0 (46,164) (66,860) (75,645) (76,698)
   (84,368) (83,718) (80,429) (71,983) (62,732) (58,975) (39,841) (21,390)
   Income Statement, Years One to Three Income Statement, Profit and Loss
   Statement - 12 Months Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Period Starting: Month 1
   Month 2 Month 3 Month 4 Month 5 Month 6 Month 7 Month 8 Month 9 Month
   10 Month 11 Month 12 Totals Sales Sales 2,364,839 5,202,645 7,591,132
   ####### Other 0 Total Sales 2,364,839 5,202,645 7,591,132 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
   0 0 ####### Less Cost of Goods Sold Materials 0 Labor 0 Overhead 0
   Other 2,096,056 4,578,327 6,604,286 ####### Total Cost of Goods Sold
   2,096,056 4,578,327 6,604,286 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ####### Gross Profit
   268,783 624,318 986,846 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,879,947 Operating Expenses
   Salaries and Wages 36,072 40,581 58,116 134,769 Employee Benefits
   18,036 20,291 29,058 67,385 Payroll Taxes 6,012 6,764 9,686 22,462 Rent
   30,060 30,060 40,080 100,200 Utilities 5,845 5,845 6,680 18,370 Repairs
   and Maintenance 3,340 3,340 3,340 10,020 Insurance 5,845 9,185 16,700
   31,730 Travel 7,097 17,535 30,895 55,527 Telephone 5,970 7,933 10,855
   24,758 Postage 2,505 4,175 8,350 15,030 Office Supplies 5,428 8,350
   12,525 26,303 Advertising (delete row) 0 Marketing and Advertising
   39,700 38,410 50,100 128,210 Professional Fees 31,125 16,550 16,500
   64,175 Training and Development 10,020 16,700 35,070 61,790 Bank
   Charges 150 150 200 500 Depreciation 9,185 9,185 9,185 27,555
   Miscellaneous 0 Other 0 Total Operating Expenses 216,390 235,054
   337,340 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 788,784 Operating Income 52,393 389,264
   649,506 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,091,163 Interest Income (Expense) (8,350)
   (8,350) (8,350) (25,050) Other Income (Expense) 0 Total Nonoperating
   Income (Expense) (8,350) (8,350) (8,350) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (25,050)
   Income (Loss) Before Taxes 44,043 380,914 641,156 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
   1,066,113 Income Taxes 9,142 76,184 145,751 231,077 Net Income (Loss)
   34,901 304,730 495,405 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 835,036 Cumulative Net Income
   (Loss) 34,901 339,631 835,036 835,036 835,036 835,036 835,036 835,036
   835,036 835,036 835,036 835,036 835,036 Balance Sheet at end of Year
   One Sources and Uses of Funds Sources and Use of Funds Number of
   funding rounds expected for full financing: 1 Total dollar amount being
   sought in this round: $83,500 SOURCES OF FUNDS Equity Financing:
   Preferred Stock: Common Stock: Debt Financing: Mortgage Loans: Other
   Long-Term Loans: Short-Term Loans: Convertible Debt: Investment from
   Principals: $41,750 USE OF FUNDS Capital Expenditures: Purchase of
   Property: Leasehold Improvements: Purchase of Equipment/Furniture:
   $29,225 Other: Working Capital: Purchase of Inventory: Staff Expansion:
   $20,000 New Product Line Introduction: Additional Marketing Activities:
   $34,275 Other Business Expansion Activities: Other: Database and Web
   site $41,750 Debt Retirement: Cash Reserve: Balance Sheet, One Year
   (Quarterly) Balance Sheet - One Year (Quarterly) Year 1 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr
   3 Qtr 4 ASSETS Current Assets Cash 7855 210 20,768 19,935 Marketable
   securities 0 0 0 0 Accounts receivable, net 5600 16,800 35,890 45,818
   Inventory 0 0 0 0 Prepaid expenses 400 535 835 835 Other 0 0 0 0 Total
   Current Assets 13,855 17,545 57,493 66,588 Long-Term Assets Property,
   plant, and equipment 29,225 29,225 29,225 29,225 Less accumulated
   depreciation (2296) (4592) (6888) (9185) Net property, plant, and
   equipment 26,929 24,633 22,337 20,040 Other long-term assets 0 0 0 0
   Total Long-Term Assets 26,929 24,633 22,337 20,040 Total Assets 40,784
   42,178 79,830 86,628 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Current
   Liabilities Short-term debt 0 0 0 0 Current maturities of long-term
   debt 0 0 0 0 Accounts payable 525 640 750 835 Income taxes payable 0 0
   3500 9142 Accrued liabilities 0 0 0 0 Other 0 0 0 0 Total Current
   Liabilities 525 640 4250 9977 Long-Term Liabilities Long-term debt less
   current maturities 0 0 0 0 Deferred income taxes 0 0 0 0 Other
   long-term liabilities 0 0 0 0 Total Long-Term Liabilities 0 0 0 0
   Shareholders' Equity Common stock 41,750 41,750 41,750 41,750
   Additional paid-in capital 0 0 0 0 Retained earnings (1,491) (212)
   33,830 34,901 Other 0 0 Total Shareholders' Equity 40,259 41,538 75,580
   76,651 Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 40,784 42,178 79,830
   86,628 Cash Flow Forecast, 12 Months Income Statement, Three Year
   Summary Income Statement - Three Year Summary Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
   Totals Sales Sales 2,364,839 5,202,645 7,591,132 15,158,616 Other 0
   Total Sales 2,364,839 5,202,645 7,591,132 15,158,616 Less Cost of Goods
   Sold Materials 0 Labor 0 Overhead 0 Other 2,096,056 4,578,327 6,604,286
   13,278,669 Total Cost of Goods Sold 2,096,056 4,578,327 6,604,286
   13,278,669 Gross Profit 268,783 624,318 986,846 1,879,947 Operating
   Expenses Salaries and wages 36,072 40,581 58,116 134,769 Employee
   benefits 18,036 20,291 29,058 67,385 Payroll taxes 6012 6764 9686
   22,462 Rent 30,060 30,060 40,080 100,200 Utilities 5845 5845 6680
   18,370 Repairs and maintenance 3340 3340 3340 10,020 Insurance 5845
   9185 16,700 31,730 Travel 7,097 17,535 30,895 55,527 Telephone 5970
   7933 10,855 24,758 Postage 2505 4175 8350 15,030 Office supplies 5428
   8350 12,525 26,303 Marketing and advertising 39,700 38,410 50,100
   128,210 Professional fees 31,125 16,550 16,500 64,175 Training and
   development 10,020 16,700 35,070 61,790 Bank charges 150 150 200 500
   Depreciation 9185 9185 9185 27,555 Miscellaneous 0 Other 0 Total
   Operating Expenses 216,390 235,054 337,340 788,784 Operating Income
   52,393 389,264 649,506 1,091,163 Interest income (expense) (8350)
   (8350) (8350) (25,050) Other income (expense) 0 Total Nonoperating
   Income (Expense) (8350) (8350) (8350) (25,050) Income (Loss) Before
   Taxes 44,043 380,914 641,156 1,066,113 Income Taxes 9142 76,184 145,751
   231,077 Net Income (Loss) 34,901 304,730 495,405 835,036 Cumulative Net
   Income (Loss) 34,901 339,631 835,036 835,036 Sources and Uses of Funds
   Sources and Use of Funds Number of funding rounds expected for full
   financing: 1 Total dollar amount being sought in this round: $83,500
   SOURCES OF FUNDS Equity Financing: Preferred Stock: Common Stock: Debt
   Financing: Mortgage Loans: Other Long-Term Loans: Short-Term Loans:
   Convertible Debt: Investment from Principals: $41,750 USE OF FUNDS
   Capital Expenditures: Purchase of Property: Leasehold Improvements:
   Purchase of Equipment/Furniture: $29,225 Other: Working Capital:
   Purchase of Inventory: Staff Expansion: $20,000 New Product Line
   Introduction: Additional Marketing Activities: $34,700 Other Business
   Expansion Activities: Other: Database and Web site $41,325 Debt
   Retirement: Cash Reserve: Northwind Traders Sample??????????????
