http://www.shuttle.nasa.gov/spacenews/releases/2002/J02-10.html

   [nasanews.gif]

   January 29, 2002

   Kelly Humphries
   Johnson Space Center, Houston, TX
   (281) 483-5111

   Susan Tortorici
   Space Center Houston
   (281) 244-2149

   JSC Release: J02-10

   TEACHERS GET FIRST-HAND EXPERIENCE WITH INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION

   An estimated 650 educators from around the world are expected to attend
   the Eighth Annual International Space Station Educators Conference on
   February 1-2, 2002, in Houston, Texas.

   Educators will get an up-close and personal look at the International
   Space Station and hear the latest news direct from two American
   astronauts now living on the station. The conference is being hosted by
   Space Center Houston, the official visitors center of NASAs Johnson
   Space Center (JSC) with support from Boeing. The weekend seminar is
   designed to inform educators about the station and enhance current
   theories taught in the classroom with space education.

   A live downlink from Astronauts Dan Bursch and Carl Walz is scheduled
   for 9:46 a.m. CST Friday, Feb. 1, from the International Space Station.
   Other guest speakers at the conference include Space Station Chief
   Scientist Roger Crouch, NASA Headquarters; Astronauts Dan Burbank, Kent
   Rominger, David Wolf and Expedition Two station astronauts Susan Helms
   and Jim Voss, all in Houston, plus Astronaut Chris Hadfield, live from
   Star City, Russia.

   This conference provides a unique opportunity to share the excitement
   of the International Space Station to educators throughout the world,
   as well as providing them with innovative methods for integrating this
   exciting endeavor into the classroom to promote math, science and
   technology, said Susan Tortorici, Supervisor of Educational Programs,
   Space Center Houston. Its also an excellent way for the attendees to
   discover how to use space as a theme in teaching concepts with existing
   classroom curriculum, and to meet the very people who are developing
   the station.

   The largest conference to date -- with participants from all 50 states,
   Canada, Japan, and the Netherlands -- includes a tour of full-scale
   station mock-ups at JSC; a trip to the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory,
   where astronauts train and practice for space station missions; a tour
   of the X-38 Assembly Building, where engineers are developing
   technologies that could be used in future station crew return vehicles;
   and more than 100 sessions featuring teachers, scientists, engineers,
   and other aerospace specialists.

   Teachers will participate in numerous hands-on, interactive sessions,
   such as building and launching rockets, constructing their own
   spacesuits, assembling a space station model and preparing astronaut
   food.

   The International Space Station Educators Conference is hosted annually
   by Space Center Houston with the support of Boeing, NASA/Johnson Space
   Center, and Southwest Airlines.

   -END-

   NASA press releases and other information are available automatically
   by sending an Internet electronic mail message to domo@hq.nasa.gov. In
   the body of the message (not the subject line) users should type the
   words "subscribe press-release" (no quotes). The system will reply with
   a confirmation via E-mail of each subscription. A second automatic
   message will include additional information on the service. NASA
   releases also are available via CompuServe using the command GO NASA.
   To unsubscribe from this mailing list, address an E-mail message to
   domo@hq.nasa.gov, leave the subject blank, and type only "unsubscribe
   press-release" (no quotes) in the body of the message.
