http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/tfest.html

                                                                Home Index

                       Fall TarantulaFest and Barbecue
                         Saturday, October 5rd, 2002
                           10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.


   A male tarantula on his autumn rounds   Come to the fifth annual Coe
   Park TarantulaFest and rub elbows (so to speak) with some of our fuzzy,
   friendly eight-legged guests of honor.  The event is held at the
   headquarters campground, which has breathtaking views across the ridges
   and canyons of the backcountry.

   The day will be filled with games, contests, entertainment, and
   enlightenment.  And don't worry if you're arachnophobic.  Several
   tarantulas will be invited to the event, but they're going to stay in
   peripheral areas where people can come to visit them.

   If you buy a meal ticket in advance, you can sit down and enjoy great
   home-cooked food at our all-you-can-eat barbecue.
       Activities:



     Go on a leisurely nature walk with a volunteer naturalist and search
     for tarantulas on the move
     Hold a tarantula and have your picture taken by a friend or by our
     TarantulaFest photographers
     Participate in games and contests
     Enjoy live music by The Tarantulas,a band of musical Coe Park
     volunteers and friends
     Hang out at our kids' activities table and create TarantulaFest
     keepsakes

       Barbecue Lunch:




          Tickets for the barbecue must be ordered in advance.  Our home-cooked
          food is served from 12:00 noon to 2:00 p.m. in the headquarters
          campground.   You can choose from the following all-you-can-eat meals.


       Santa Maria
       Style
       Steak Dinner

       $12
                   Marinated
                   Chicken
                   Dinner

                   $10
                            Gardenburger
                            Vegetarian
                            Dinner

                            $7
                                        Grilled
                                        Hot Dog
                                        Dinner

                                        $5

          All the meals come with ranch-style beans, tossed green salad, and
          grilled French bread.  Proceeds from the barbecue go to the Pine Ridge
          Association, the nonprofit organization that works hand in hand with
          Coe Park staff to keep the park up and running.

       Beverages:



     Our beverage booth opens at 10 a.m., and we'll be selling bottled
     water, soda pops, fruit juice, draft beer, and wine.   (50¢ for sodas
     and bottled water, $1.00 for fruit juice, $1.50 for wine, and $2.00 for
     Coast Range Brewery draft beer)

       The Raffle:



     Raffle prizes are donated by local artists, businesses, and fans of the
     park.  Proceeds from the raffle will be used for our Visitor Center
     expansion fund.  Prizes will be listed here in September.

     The suggested donation for raffle tickets is $1.00 per ticket, 6
     tickets for $5.00, or 25 tickets for $20.00.

     You can buy raffle tickets in advance at the park or buy them on the
     day of the TarantulaFest (before the drawing starts).  You don't have
     to be present to win.

       Parking:



     The state charges a day-use parking fee of $2 per car.  Please carpool
     to help us save parking space.

           This event is spondored by the Pine Ridge Association,
           a nonprofit cooperating organization
           dedicated to the wellbeing of Coe Park.

                               [greenline.gif]

                         Return  to the events page
