http://www.energy.ca.gov/marketing_materials/Winter_Tips_Only_non-brochure_layout/tips_onlys.pdf

   Home EnergHome Energ Fo F A S T A N D Eliminate wasted energy r mor F R
   E E Turn down your thermostat-For every degree you lower your heat,
   you'll e save up to 5 percent on heating costs. COLD WEATHER Cutting
   back i Turn off lights in unoccupied rooms. It's the best thing nfo
   unnecessary energy you can do. If you have a forced air heating system,
   or a wall heater, set your thermostat to rm use is an easy way to 68
   degrees or lower during the day. Set it to 55 degrees, or off, at night
   or at keep your hard- Unplug electronic devices and chargers when they
   aren't when away from home. ion earned money in in use. conta your
   pocket. Here If you have a heat pump, it should only be set back five
   degrees to prevent are some suggestions unneeded use of backup strip
   heating. Unplug that spare refrigerator in the garage if you don't ct
   you can do at home, really need it. Reduce your hot water
   temperature-Set your water heater to the "normal" th at absolutely no
   cost e setting, or 120 degrees, unless the owner's manual for your
   dishwasher requires to you. Turn off your kitchen and bathroom
   ventilating fans after C a higher setting. a they've done their job.
   lifornia E Use your appliances wisely Close the damper on your
   fireplace when you aren't using it. n Use a full load when you run your
   washing machine or your dishwasher  e Shorten your showers. rg and
   avoid peak hours. y Comm Use the energy saving features on your home
   computer, Use the cold water setting on your clothes washer when you
   can. monitor, and printer to put your equipment into sleep mode i when
   you are finished, and turn them off when not in use. s Be sure to clean
   your clothes dryer's lint trap after each use. sion tol Use large
   appliances during off peak hours whenever possible y Sa Peak hours are
   4:00  7:00 in the evening. y Sa l free at I N E X P E N S I V E 1- E N
   E R G Y 8 Install low flow showerheads-You'll be surprised how much
   this simple 00 S O L U T I O N S device can cut your hot water costs.
   -555 Wrap your hot water tank with jacket insulation-If your water
   heater is - Every home is 77 different. With a gas, be sure to leave
   the air intake vent uncovered. 9 ving Tips quick trip to your local
   hardware store, Plug your home's leaks-Weather-strip or caulk leaky
   doors and windows, ving Tips 4 or Replace your incandescent light bulbs
   with v and cover your outlets. isi you have even more ENERGY STAR®
   labeled compact fluorescent light bulbs. t choices at hand. Replace
   furnace filters once a month-Dirty filters restrict airflow and
   increase o Buy ENERGY STAR® labeled torchieres, table lamps and u
   energy use. Keep your furnace clean, lubricated and properly adjusted.
   r light fixtures. Web Sit G O O D e Install qualified ENERGY STAR®
   programmable Replace your kitchen and laundry appliances with ENERGY
   STAR®labeled models. : E N E R G Y S A V I N G w
   thermostat-Accidentally leaving the heat on while you w are out for the
   day becomes a thing of the past. If you When remodeling, select I N V E
   S T M E N T S E w NERGY STAR® qualified windows. They can reduce .flexy
   have a heat pump, be sure to select a model designed for your heating
   costs by up to 15 percent. Do you need any new your system. ourpow
   appliances, or are ENERGY STAR®® labeled furnaces use 20 to 30 percent
   less energy to heat your you planning to do Increase ceiling
   insulation-Consider increasing your home than older models. some
   remodeling? insulation to as much as R-38. er.ca.g Consider these
   energy Seal your ducts-Leaking ductwork accounts for 25 percent
   efficiency suggestions o of the heating costs in an average home, so
   have your ducts v before you buy. tested and any leaks or restrictions
   repaired by a qualified Choose ENERGY STAR ® Products licensed
   contractor.
