http://www.tasc.dot.gov/passvisa.html

             TASC Security Services Search


                                             __________
                                    Department Of Transportation

   Home Archives Online Directory Service Request


   PASSPORTS & VISAS

   The Department of State (DOS) Passport Agency has delegated to each
   department or agency responsibility for control and distribution of
   official passports and visas. TASC Security Operations' Official
   Passport Office provides these passport and visa services to all DOT
   employees traveling outside of the United States on official business.

   Please note that Personal/Tourist passports cannot be processed through
   this office, although, applications and general passport information
   can be provided by the DOT Passport Agent.

   The DOT Passport Agent has been certified and is authorized by the DOS
   Passport Agency only to execute No-Fee Official Passport requests.

   Which application form do I use?

   DSP-82, Application for Passport by Mail:

   If you can answer YES to ALL of the statements below, you are eligible
   to use DSP-82, Application for Passport by Mail:

   I can submit my most recent passport;
   I was at least 18 years old when my most recent passport was issued;
   I was issued my most recent passport less than 12 years ago; and
   I use the same name as on my most recent passport, OR, I had my name
   changed by marriage or Court order and can submit proper documentation
   to reflect my name changes.

   DSP-11, Application for Passport in Person:

   If you are a first time applicant or have an official/tourist passport
   that was ISSUED more than 12 years ago, you MUST complete and submit
   this application, DSP-11, IN PERSON, to one of the following acceptance
   agents: DOT Passport Agent; clerk of any Federal or State Court;
   designated postal employees at a selected post office; an agent at the
   Passport Agency; or a U.S. consular official.

   Each DSP-11 Form must be accompanied by the following:

   proof of identity (driver's license or work identification); and
   proof of citizenship (certified copy of birth certificate or
   certificate of naturalization).

   NOTE: DOT applicants in our regional offices should apply in person at
   selected post offices. When applying, please have a complete package
   consisting of the following: Form DSP-11; DOT Form 1500.7, Request for
   Official Passport Action (unsigned); travel authorization letter; and
   memorandum of justification, stating that the applicant is applying for
   a No-Fee Official Passport. An acceptance agent should execute the
   application.

   What should I include in my Initial Passport/Renewal of Passport
   Package?

   DSP Form;
   two recent identical photos with plain light background, 2"x 2" in
   size, with name printed on back;
   most recent (tourist or official) passport OR proof of citizenship;
   a certified copy of marriage certificate or court order, if your name
   has been changed;
   form 1500.7, Request for Official Passport Action; and
   travel authorization letter.

   Where do I send Official Passport Application Packages?

   Sharon Wallace, Passport Agent
   TASC Security Operations, SVC-150
   U.S. Department of Transportation
   400 - 7th Street, S.W., Room 7402
   Washington, D.C. 20590
   Phone: (202) 366-4679

   The applicant should make a photocopy of the passport application
   package before submitting to the acceptance agent.

   Additional Forms

   DSP-19, Passport Amendment/Validation Application:

   To show a change of name. Submit documentary evidence such as a
   certified court order, marriage certificate, or other satisfactory
   evidence to support a change of name.
   To correct descriptive data. Submit appropriate evidence to support
   correction of descriptive data.
   To add visa supplemental pages.
   To extend the validity of a limited passport. Submit appropriate
   evidence to support your request.

   DSP-64, Statement Regarding Lost or Stolen Passport:

   Submit this application when an applicant has lost, had stolen, or
   misplaced a valid or potentially valid passport. The statement must be
   submitted whether the applicant was the bearer of, or included in, the
   previous passport. All spaces on the statement must be completed in
   detail.

   Lost or stolen passports can be, and are, used for fraudulent purposes.
   The bearer should be advised to notify the DOT Passport Agent or the
   nearest Passport Agency in writing, or, if abroad, the nearest American
   Embassy or consulate, if the passport has been lost or stolen. If it is
   stolen, the applicant should report the theft to police authorities in
   the locale in which the theft occurred.

   To replace a lost or stolen passport, the applicant must submit a form
   DSP-64, Statement Regarding Lost or Stolen Passport, along with Form
   DSP-11, Passport Application, in the prescribed manner; present
   acceptable identification; and submit two new photographs. If the lost
   passport is recovered subsequent to issuance of a replacement passport,
   the recovered passport should be submitted to the DOT Passport Agent
   immediately.

   DOT Form 1500.7, Request for Official Passport Action:

   DOT Form 1500.7, Request for Official Passport Action, is the
   authorization form submitted to the State Department, along with the
   application. This form is approved by DOT Passport Agents. The
   traveler's supervisor or manager CANNOT approve this form. If the
   passport application and DOT Form 1500.7 are sent directly to DOS and
   not submitted to DOT first, DOS will not approve the request, and DOT
   will be notified for proper authorization. DOT Form 1500.7 must be
   TYPED (blocks 1-5) and submitted in triplicate for ALL passport
   requests and amendments.

   Passport Forms can be obtained from TASC Security Operations, Room
   7402, or at http://travel.state.gov.

   Mutilated Passports

   The bearer may change only the information request in the passport,
   which pertains, to the permanent address and to the emergency address.
   The passport must not be altered, mutilated, or changed in any other
   manner, except as amended by DOS. The bearer, who submits an altered or
   mutilated passport must submit a signed, detailed statement explaining
   the circumstances surrounding the alteration or mutilation of the
   passport. If the bearer is applying for a new passport, the bearer must
   complete Form DSP-11, Passport Application, in the prescribed manner.
   The mutilated passport is not acceptable for identification purposes
   when the bearer executes DSP-11, for replacement of that altered or
   mutilated passport.

   Processing Time for Official Passports

   Allow 5 to 10 working days (processing time could change without
   notice, due to DOS workload).

   We realize that this time frame may cause some difficulties, and that
   some of you will not know in advance of your international travel
   requirements. Realizing this, the Department of State Passport Agency
   has allowed us to request expedited handling of official passport
   applications on a limited basis. You must attach a letter of
   justification indicating the nature of the emergency and any other
   extenuating circumstances in support of your request for expedited
   handling, addressed to the Department of State. This letter is only
   required if your departure date is scheduled within 10 working days of
   your request.

   Visas

   Permission granted by the government of a country for an alien to enter
   and remain in that country for a specific period of time. A visa is
   usually in the form of an imprinted stamp affixed to one of the pages
   in a passport book. Visas are obtained from embassies in Washington,
   D.C.

   The DOT Passport Agent will provide applicants with the necessary
   applications and information to obtain official visas. Since a passport
   is not valid until signed, embassies will NOT issue a visa stamp in an
   unsigned passport.

   It is the responsibility of the bearer to request additional visa
   supplemental pages. The Amendment and Endorsement pages CANNOT be used
   for visa stamps.

   Visa requests must also be authorized. Requests must be applied for in
   memorandum form, including name of applicant, modal administration,
   country to be visited, approximate arrival and departure date, and
   purpose of travel. "Official Business" is not acceptable for purpose of
   travel.

   Processing time for visa requests are 2-10 working days.

   Photos

   Please contact the Passport Agent at (202) 366-4679 or 366-4677 to make
   an appointment to have photos taken for passports and/or visas.


        Home | Archives| On-line Directory | Service Request | Search

   TASC
   Nassif Building
   400 Seventh Street, SW
   Washington, D.C. 20590-0001
   Voice: 202-366-4747 TTY: FAX:
