http://www.parks.wa.gov/fees.asp


   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page

   Home
   Reservations
   Park Information
   Rental Places
   Activities
   Agency Information
   ADA Recreation
   Site Map & Search


   Fees and Regulations

     Fees and Permits

      Debris removal after snow storm Nearly 30 percent of the Washington
      State Parks operating budget is funded through fees and revenues
      collected from park visitors. Fees paid by visitors are used
      exclusively to support our State Parks system.
      State sales tax is included in all fees listed below.
      Regular Camping and Boating Fees
      While the following regular fees apply throughout the state, facilities
      and amenities will vary from park to park.
      Standard campsite $13
      A designated campsite served by nearby domestic water, sink waste,
      garbage disposal and flush comfort station.
      Utility campsite $19
      A standard campsite with the addition of electricity and which may have
      domestic water and/or sewer.
      Primitive campsite
      Motorized vehicle $8
      Non-motorized vehicle $6
      Additional person fee
      $2 each additional adult
      First four adults included in basic campsite fee. Maximum eight adult
      campers per site.
      Popular Destination Park surcharge $1
      Added to standard and utility campsite fees April 1 to Sept. 30 at
      designated high-volume parks.
      Additional vehicle at campsite $6
      Unattended vehicle overnight parking $6
      Trailer dump $3 per use
      (Trailer dump included with campsite/overnight moorage.)
      Advance reservation of campsite, group camp, group day-use facility,
      cabin, yurt or platform tent through central reservation system $7
      (non-refundable)
      Central reservation system change or cancellation $4 minimum, with
      higher fees near reservation arrival date
      Advanced reservation of a group camp through a park not on central
      reservation system
      $25 (non-refundable)
      $2 per person, per night
      Group day use
      $50 to $500 and up, depending on size of group
      Unique Rental Places
      Overnight and day-use rates at unique accommodations and event
      locations in Washington state parks. Many unique rental places offer
      seasonal discounts and special offers. So, be sure to check our special
      rates.
      Overnight dock moorage

   Boats under 26 feet    $10
   Boats 26 to 34 feet    $13
   Boats 35 feet and over $16
      Overnight buoy moorage $7
      Water Trail campsite $6
      Watercraft launch site permit (daily, per watercraft)
      At more developed launch sites $4
      At less developed launch sites $3
      (Launch permit included with campsite/overnight moorage.)
     Annual/Seasonal Permits

      Annual Watercraft Moorage Permit
      If you moor at docks in fee areas more than seven nights each year, an
      annual Watercraft Moorage Permit will save you money. Valid Jan. 1
      through Dec. 31.

   Boats under 26 feet    $60
   Boats 26 to 34 feet    $90
   Boats 35 feet and over $110
      We have available online moorage permit purchases, applications and
      additional information.
      Annual Watercraft Launch Permit $40
      Boat launch at Joemma Beach State Park Allows unlimited launches at all
      state park launch sites. Valid Jan. 1 through Dec. 31.
      20% discount for early renewal
      Purchase permit between Dec. 1 and Feb. 29 for coming year.
      50% discount for autumn boaters
      Purchase permit between Sept. 1 and Dec. 23 for remainder of current
      year.
      We have available online launch permit purchases, applications and
      additional information.
      Cascadia Marine Trail Permit $20 per person
      Allows camping at established sites along the Cascadia Marine Trail.
      Available at most parks along the Cascadia Marine Trail and from
      vendors throughout western Washington. For more information call (360)
      902-8844; Telephone Device for the Deaf (360) 664-3133.
      Snowmobile registration $25
      Valid Oct. 1 through Sept. 30, includes seasonal snowmobile Sno-Park
      permit for towing vehicle parked at designated snowmobile Sno-Parks.
      Snowmobiles are registered through the Department of Licensing and
      registered agents.
      Non-motorized Winter Sports Sno-Park Permits
      Permits cost an additional dollar if purchased from a retail vendor
      instead of directly from State Parks.
      One-day permit $8 ($9 from retail vendor)
      Allows one-day parking at all non-motorized winter sports Sno-Parks,
      including special groomed trails areas.
      Seasonal permit $20 ($21 from retail vendor)
      Allows parking at all non-motorized winter sports Sno-Parks (although a
      Special Groomed Trails Permit is also required at some parks; see
      below). Transferable between two vehicles registered to the same
      household.
      Special Groomed Trails permit $20 ($21 from retail vendor)
      Required, in addition to seasonal permit above, for parking at
      designated special groomed trails parks with higher trail maintenance
      costs.
      For more information on Sno-Park permits, including a list of vendors,
      visit our Winter Recreation page.
    Regulations

   Rules and regulations governing activities in Washington state parks.

    Pass Program

   Passes and permits available to visitors to Washington state parks.

   Bike riding at Twin Harbors State Park

   Copyright © 2002 Washington State Parks
   Please review our privacy policy.
   Contact us.
   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page

   Home Page | Reservations | Park Information | Rental Places

   Activities  | Agency Information | ADA Recreation

   Site Map & Search
   Washington State Government Information & Services
