http://bxatac.doc.gov/0612RMTG.TXT

   REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE Notice of
   Partially Closed Meeting The Regulations and Procedures Technical
   Advisory Committee (RPTAC) will meet June 12, 2001, 9:00 a.m., Room
   3884, in the Herbert C. Hoover Building, 14th Street between
   Constitution and Pennsylvania Avenues, N.W., Washington, D.C. The
   Committee advises the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Export
   Administration on implementation of the Export Administration
   Regulations (EAR) and provides for continuing review to update the EAR
   as needed. Agenda: Public Session 1. Opening remarks by the Chairman.
   2. Presentation of papers or comments by the public. 3. Update on
   pending regulations. 4. Work group activity reports and discussion. 5.
   Update on Bureau of Export Administration initiatives. Closed Session
   6. Discussion of matters properly classified under Executive Order
   12958, dealing with the U.S. export control program and strategic
   criteria related thereto. A limited number of seats will be available
   for the public session. Reservations are not accepted. To the extent
   that time permits, members of the public may present oral statements to
   the Committee. The public may submit written statements at any time
   before or after the meeting. However, to facilitate the distribution of
   public presentation materials to the Committee members, the Committee
   suggests that presenters forward the public presentation materials
   prior to the meeting to the following address: Ms. Lee Ann Carpenter
   OSIES/EA/BXA MS:3876 14th St. & Constitution Ave., N.W. U.S. Department
   of Commerce Washington, D.C. 20230 The Assistant Secretary for
   Administration, with the concurrence of the delegate of the General
   Counsel, formally determined on February 12, 2001, pursuant to Section
   10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, that the
   series of meetings or portions of meetings of the Committee and of any
   Subcommittees thereof, dealing with the classified materials listed in
   5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(1) shall be exempt from the provisions relating to
   public meetings found in section 10(a)(1) and 10(a)(3) of the Federal
   Advisory Committee Act. The remaining series of meetings or portions
   thereof will be open to the public. A copy of the Notice of
   Determination to close meetings or portions of meetings of the
   Committee is available for public inspection and copying in the Central
   Reference and Records Inspection Facility, Room 6020, U.S. Department
   of Commerce, Washington, D.C. For more information, call Lee Ann
   Carpenter at (202) 482-2583.
