http://spd.nasa.gov/biotech.html

   Space Product Development              NASA Insignia
                             Space for Business to Grow

   Click here to skip menu

   Home
   What is SPD?
   Industry
   Research
   Commercial
   Space Centers
   News
   Events
   Success Stories
   -Agribusiness
   -Biotechnology
   -Materials R&D
   Contact Us
    Search
     _______________ go

Success Stories - Biotechnology

   Biotechnology Research involves the manipulation of organic materials
   -- cells, tissues, and even living organisms -- and offers many
   exciting possibilities for the future, from organic computers to
   improved aquaculture. Commercial space research has resulted in a
   number of significant successes, including:

   Brain tumors can be one of the most difficult types of cancer to treat.
   Improvements by Wisconsin-based Quantum Devices, Inc., in the Light
   Emitting Diodes (LEDs) developed for ASTROCULTURE have helped advance
   Scientist with Light-emitting diode photodynamic therapy. ASTROCULTURE
   is a commercial plant research facility developed by the Wisconsin
   Center for Space Automation and Robotics, a Commercial Space Center.
   Photodynamic therapy is a method used to destroy the tumor without
   damaging the delicate brain tissue around it. The LEDs, which remain
   cool to the touch for hours even though they can produce up to several
   times the energy of the Sun in the wavelengths at which they operate,
   are used in conjunction with light sensitive chemotherapy drugs for
   this process. Since the LED unit can be purchased for a fraction of the
   cost of a laser, this work has helped reduce the cost of treatment
   while making it more effective. In addition, the LEDs seem to be able
   to stimulate the growth of tissues to aid in the healing of wounds, and
   investigations into this effect are underway.

   Special Optical Detector A special optical detector developed by the
   Space Vacuum Epitaxy Center Commercial Space Center may offer the hope
   of sight to people with a variety of eye problems. The detector is
   designed to be implanted on the back wall of the eye to replace natural
   sensors damaged by disease or accident. It converts light into
   electrical signals in much the same way as rods and cones do in a
   healthy eye, and the impulses are then picked up by the optic nerve.
   Preliminary testing has been successful and efforts at commercial
   development are underway.

   Mt. Everest In May 1998, a telescience support system located in a camp
   site at the base of Mt. Everest, was used to diagnose members of the
   Everest Extreme expedition team who were suffering from a number of
   medical ailments. In another instance this year, a remote surgery unit
   in the mountainous jungle of Ecuador consulted throughout a surgical
   procedure with physicians associated with the Center for Medical
   Informatics and Technology, a Commercial Space Center, thousands of
   miles away.

   pills A cancer drug, Proleukin, developed by Chiron Corporation and
   supported by collaborative research with NASA's BioServe Space
   Technologies Commercial Space Center has been approved by the FDA for
   use in treatment of bladder cancer and metastatic melanoma. In
   addition, it is being used in human clinical trials to test its
   effectiveness as an adjunct treatment for AIDS.

   Bone Loss Bone loss from accident or illness is a serious problem,
   especially given that current bone replacements can end up being
   replaced multiple times over the lifetime of a patient. Ceramic-metal
   composites are one possible treatment and, unlike many conventional
   therapies, are highly porous. The Center for Commercial Applications of
   Combustion in Space Commercial Space Center has successfully
   synthesized this product using Self-propagating High-temperature
   Synthesis (SHS) reactions.

   [back to top]
