http://oig.lsc.gov/reports/0201/938010.htm

   Home < Reports < Audit Reports   Legal Services Corporation Office of
   Inspector General

   LSC logo Review of Grantee's Transfer of Funds, and Compliance with
            Program Integrity Standards
            Grantee: Lane County Legal Aid Service, Inc.
            Recipient No. 938010
            Report No. AU 02-01
              __________________________________________________________________

     Other formats: PDF 191K | Word 76K | Grantee's Comments: PDF 363K |
     Transmittal Letter: PDF 44K

     October 2001

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

     RESULTS OF AUDIT

     OBJECTIVE INTEGRITY AND INDEPENDENCE

     COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS

     CONCLUSION

     RECOMMENDATIONS

     SUMMARY OF GRANTEE'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT REPORT AND THE OIG'S RESPONSE
     TO THEIR COMMENTS

     BACKGROUND

     OBJECTIVES, SCOPE, and METHODOLOGY

     APPENDIX l - Grantee's Comments On Draft Report I-1

     APPENDIX II - OIG Staff Responsible for the Audit and Report Il- 1

                              RESULTS OF AUDIT

     The Legal Services Corporation (LSC) Office of Inspector General
     (OIG) conducted this audit to determine whether Lane County Legal
     Aid Service, Inc. ("grantee") was in compliance with certain
     requirements of 45 CFR Part 1610. This regulation prohibits grantees
     from transferring LSC funds to an organization that engages in
     activities prohibited by the LSC Act and LSC appropriation acts,
     with one exception. The only exception is that LSC funds may be used
     to fund private attorney involvement (PAI) activities that such an
     organization performs for the grantee. In addition, grantees must
     maintain objective integrity and independence from organizations
     that engage in restricted activities.

     Between July 1, 1999 and June 30, 2001, the grantee did not comply
     with the program integrity requirement of Part 1610. Specifically,
     the grantee:

     * did not maintain objective integrity and independence from a legal
       organization that engaged in prohibited activities;
     * allowed a full-time attorney to work on a class action suit for the
       other organization while in the grantee's office; and
     * certified compliance with Part 1610 without the required supporting
       report.

     Our limited review of cases filed in the state circuit courts in
     Lane County and adjacent counties indicated that the cases did not
     involve restricted or prohibited activities. However, we identified
     a relatively minor case reporting deficiency that is not directly
     related to program integrity. The grantee did not report seven cases
     filed in court by its attorneys as required by 45 CFR Part 1644.

                    OBJECTIVE INTEGRITY AND INDEPENDENCE

     The grantee did not establish and maintain objective integrity and
     independence as required by 45 CFR Section 1610.8. It maintains a
     close working relationship with the Lane County Law and Advocacy
     Center (Advocacy Center), a legal organization that handles
     prohibited cases. The grantee and the Advocacy Center are co-located
     in the same building with little to distinguish between the
     organizations. The organizations share both professional and
     administrative staff and are linked financially through payments for
     rent and services. In our opinion, the organizations are virtually
     indistinguishable to clients and individuals not aware of the
     working arrangements under which the organizations function.

     Requirements

     Section¹ 1610.8 states that grantees must have objective integrity
     and independence from organizations that engage in restricted
     activities. The grantee meets the requirements of this regulation
     if:

     * the other organization is a legally separate entity,
     * it does not transfer LSC funds to the organization and LSC funds do
       not subsidize restricted activities, and
     * it is physically and financially separate from the other
       organization.

     The preamble to Section 1610.8 requires the grantee to ensure that
     it is not identified with restricted activities and that the other
     organization is not so closely identified with the recipient that
     there might be confusion or misunderstanding about the recipient's
     involvement with or endorsement of prohibited activities.

                        COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS

     The grantee met the first requirement. The Advocacy Center was
     incorporated as a separate entity under Oregon law in November 1995.
     We found no indication that the grantee improperly transferred LSC
     funds to the Advocacy Center. However, the grantee subsidized the
     Advocacy Center, to a limited extent, when one of its attorneys
     worked on a class action suit in the grantee's office space. The
     third requirement was not met. Based on the totality of the
     following facts, we concluded that the grantee did not maintain
     physical and financial separation from the Advocacy Center and,
     therefore, did not have objective integrity and independence from
     that organization.

     Financial Arrangements

     The grantee and the Advocacy Center have intertwined financial
     arrangements. Over the past two fiscal years the grantee paid the
     Advocacy Center over $99,000 in rent and for providing PAI services.
     In fiscal 2001 the Advocacy Center paid the grantee $18,000 for
     administrative services. In October 2000, the Advocacy Center gave
     the grantee a $30,000 unsecured loan at a favorable seven percent
     interest rate. The loan was promptly repaid. In December 1995, the
     grantee sold its building (purchased with non-LSC funds) to the
     Advocacy Center and held a second mortgage on the property. The
     Advocacy Center paid off the second mortgage in fiscal year 1999.
     The grantee's annual rent payments for part of the building exceeded
     its mortgage payments when it owned the building.

     Co-location

     The grantee and the Advocacy Center are located in the same
     building. The grantee began leasing space from the Advocacy Center
     after selling it the building. Initially, the grantee leased one
     office on the first floor, four offices on the second floor, and
     four offices on the third floor. Staff employed by the Advocacy
     Center occupied the remaining space on each of the three floors. In
     March 1998, the grantee began leasing the third floor, one office on
     the second floor, and approximately 75 percent of the basement,
     which is used by both organizations for storage of archived files.
     Mailboxes for the grantee's employees and the Center's employees are
     co-located on the first floor of the building.

     Separate signs are posted in the front of the building for each
     organization. The grantee's sign is about the same size as the
     Advocacy Center's sign. Signs placed on doors leading to the stairs
     state that "Legal Aid" is on the third floor. The sign provides
     direction to the grantee's office but contains nothing to
     distinguish the grantee from the Advocacy Center.

     Shared Staff

     The grantee and the Advocacy Center shared staff in three areas:
     case intake, the grantee's private attorney involvement (PAI)
     program, and administration. Sometimes grantee staff worked for the
     Advocacy Center. Other times the Advocacy Center's staff worked for
     the grantee. In addition, a grantee attorney considered a full- time
     employee worked on a class action suit for the Advocacy Center. The
     following sections discuss the specifics of the staff sharing.

     Case Intake

     The Advocacy Center's staff performs client intake for the grantee
     Monday through Friday between 1:00 pm and 3:00 pm. The vast majority
     of clients "walk in" and few clients are accepted over the phone.
     The potential clients are provided an information sheet that states
     the Law Advocacy Center houses two non-profit corporations, the
     grantee and the Advocacy Center. The name, address and phone numbers
     of the Advocacy Center are listed on the information sheet, but the
     grantee's address and phone number are not provided. The grantee is
     only mentioned in the context of the types of legal assistance it
     provides.

     The Advocacy Center's staff gives potential clients an Application
     form to document their legal problem and to record eligibility data
     and other information. The Application is an Advocacy Center form
     and includes information about the Advocacy Center but does not
     mention the grantee. The Advocacy Center's staff interviews the
     potential client and makes any needed clarifications to the data on
     the Application. The Advocacy Center's Executive Director reviews
     the Application and decides if the potential client will be referred
     to the grantee, the Advocacy Center, Pro Bono attorneys under the
     grantee's Private Attorney Involvement (PAI) program or another
     legal service provider.

     For individuals referred to the grantee, the Advocacy Center's
     receptionist uses the client's Application to input the required
     data into the grantee's case management system. The Advocacy
     Center's staff creates a manual case file that includes the client's
     Application and its Executive Director places the case file in the
     mailbox of the grantee's employee who will handle the case. This is
     tantamount to assigning the case to a grantee employee. The grantee
     does not compensate the Advocacy Center for case intake services
     except for the costs associated with clients that are referred to
     pro bono attorneys under the PAI program.

     Clearly the grantee and the Advocacy Center are indistinguishable to
     a client going through the intake process. In our opinion, the
     client would conclude that the Advocacy Center was providing legal
     services even in the cases where the grantee's staff's provides the
     services.

     Private Attorney Involvement Program

     The Advocacy Center's staff oversees the grantee's PAI program.
     Under this program one to four attorneys provide pro bono legal
     services to grantee clients on Tuesday evenings. Each attorney sees
     between three and six clients on behalf of the grantee. The grantee
     provides no oversight of the pro bono attorneys.

     The Advocacy Center's Executive Director determines which of the
     grantee's clients will be referred to a pro bono attorney and its
     staff schedules appointments for a Tuesday evening. Three Advocacy
     Center employees, including the Executive Director, coordinate the
     interaction between the grantee's clients and the pro bono
     attorneys. Most of the clients are provided counsel and advice by
     the pro bono attorneys and their cases are completed in one Tuesday
     evening meeting. On Wednesday the Advocacy Center's Executive
     Director sends the case files to the grantee's bookkeeper. The
     bookkeeper reviews the files to ensure that a closure code has been
     recorded and then closes the cases in the grantee's case management
     system. For cases not completed on Tuesday evening the pro bono
     attorneys retain the case files. The grantee's administrative staff
     follows up with the attorneys to ensure the completed case files are
     promptly returned.

     The grantee paid the Advocacy Center a total of almost $30,000 for
     overseeing the PAI program during fiscal years 2000 and 2001. Under
     a Memorandum Of Understanding dated January 1, 1996, the Advocacy
     Center provides client intake services, referral services, Tuesday
     evening appointments, and supervises the private attorneys. The
     grantee pays for these services based on the amount of time the
     Advocacy Center's staff charges to the grantee's PAI program. The
     grantee also pays the Advocacy Center $400 per month for space used
     by the pro bono attorneys. The grantee records these payments as PAI
     expenses and pays them with LSC provided funds.

     Administrative Staff

     Under a fixed cost contract originally signed in June 1996, the
     grantee's Administrator and Bookkeeper provide administrative,
     fiscal planning, and bookkeeping services to the Advocacy Center.
     The contract requires the Advocacy Center to pay the grantee $1,500
     a month for these services. The grantee's employees maintain
     timesheets on which they record the amount of time spent providing
     services to the Advocacy Center. Grantee officials stated that, over
     the course of a year, $1,500 a month allows them to recoup their
     costs. Although it appears that the grantee is not subsidizing the
     Advocacy Center the organizations are sharing administrative staff.

     Class Action Suit

     A grantee attorney, who was classified as a full-time employee,
     occasionally worked on a class action suit for the Advocacy Center
     and performed some of the work in the grantee's office. The Advocacy
     Center paid the attorney for his work.

     LSC grantees are precluded, with some limited exceptions, by law and
     regulation from being involved in class action suits. Section 1617.3
     and Section 1610.3 prohibit grantees from participating in class
     action suits. Section 1610.8(a)(2) prohibits grantees from using LSC
     funds to subsidize class action suits that other legal organizations
     are pursuing.

     A grantee attorney charged the Advocacy Center about 160 hours
     between July 1, 1999 and June 30, 2001, for work on a class action
     suit. Over the two-year period this amounted to about seven hours a
     month, a small but not de minimis amount. The Advocacy Center paid
     the attorney for his work based on the time he recorded on
     timesheets. The attorney performed some of the class action suit
     work in his office in the grantee's rented space. He did not have an
     office at the Advocacy Center. Because records were not maintained,
     the OIG was not able to determine the amount of time that the
     attorney worked on the class action suit or the tasks performed
     while at his grantee provided office.

     Grantee management told us that the attorney was considered a
     full-time employee, except that he was considered a part-time
     employee during any months that he also worked for the Advocacy
     Center. Grantee records listed the attorney as a full- time employee
     with no indication of part-time status. The only documented
     indication of the attorney's temporary part-time status was his time
     sheets and completed certifications required by Section 1635.3(d).

     Under Section 1635.3(d), attorneys who work part-time for a grantee
     and part- time for an organization that engages in restricted
     activities must certify in writing that they (1) did not engage in
     restricted activity when paid by the grantee and (2) did not use
     grantee resources for restricted activities. Certifications are made
     quarterly. The certification requirement does not apply to de
     minimis activities. The de minimis standard are those that meet all
     or most of the following criteria: actions that are of little
     substance; require little time; are not initiated by the part-time
     employee; and for the most part, are unavoidable. LSC's Program
     Letter 2000-5 provides additional guidance. It states that whether
     the part-time employee initiates activities is key to determining
     their acceptability. Receiving a brief unavoidable phone call about
     a prohibited case would be considered de minimis. Making a telephone
     call related to a restricted activity would violate the regulation.

     The attorney who worked on the class action suit for the Advocacy
     Center provided the required certifications. The OIG obtained
     limited assurance that the grantee did not compensate the attorney
     while he was working on the class action suit. This limited
     assurance is based on discussions with grantee officials and the
     fact that the Advocacy Center and the grantee issued separate,
     pro-rated paychecks to the attorney for certain pay periods.
     However, despite his certifications, the attorney did use grantee
     resources including his office and phone while working on the class
     action suit. Considering the number of hours involved, the OIG
     concluded that the activities were more than de minimis.

     Other Shared Resources

     In addition to sharing staff, the grantee and the Advocacy Center
     share accounting and timekeeping systems, an Internet web page and
     telephone and fax machine numbers. Each is discussed in the
     following.

     Accounting and Timekeeping Systems

     The grantee and the Advocacy Center use the same accounting and
     timekeeping systems, however their individual records are separately
     maintained. Under the timekeeping system employees of both
     organizations may be paid for a maximum of 162.5 hours per month.
     Overtime is not paid. A grantee employee may work for both
     organizations during a month, with each organization paying a pro
     rata share of the employee's salary. The grantee and the Advocacy
     Center jointly established and implemented this policy. In one case,
     an attorney occasionally worked for both the grantee and the
     Advocacy Center over several years. Each month that this occurred,
     the grantee and the Advocacy Center issued separate paychecks to the
     attorney for their prorated share of his salary.

     Internet Web Page

     The grantee's Internet web page states that the legal services
     "family" in Lane County, includes Lane County Legal Aid Services,
     Lane County Law and Advocacy Center, and the Senior Law Service. The
     Senior Law Service is part of the Advocacy Center. The web page
     states that these organizations work together to provide legal
     services to low-income persons in Lane County. The web page includes
     an extensive write-up about a class action suit being handled by the
     Advocacy Center. A grantee employee who works on the class action
     suit is identified as an Advocacy Center employee. The web page does
     not clearly indicate that the grantee and the Advocacy Center are
     separate organizations and that the grantee may not engage in
     restricted activities such as class action suits. The grantee and
     the Advocacy Center share the cost of the web page.

     Telephone and FAX Numbers

     The grantee and the Advocacy Center have the same telephone number
     in the Lane County yellow pages. Each organization, in fact, has its
     own separate phone number and each pays its share of telephone
     expenses. Because a single number is listed, individuals contacting
     the grantee or Advocacy Center through the yellow pages number are
     likely to conclude that they are dealing with one organization. In
     addition, the grantee and the Advocacy Center share a fax machine
     with a single telephone number and share the related costs.

     Conclusion

     Taking all the above factors into consideration, we concluded that
     the grantee and the Advocacy Center were so closely aligned that
     they appeared to be one organization. The grantee and the Advocacy
     Center shared administrative and professional staff. The Executive
     Director and other Advocacy Center professionals performed
     supervisory functions that are the responsibility of grantee
     management. The two organizations shared communication devices. As a
     result of this close relationship the grantee was unable to maintain
     objective integrity and independence. The grantee clearly and
     unambiguously violated Section 1610.8.

     Report On Compliance With Program Integrity Requirements

     The grantee's Executive Director did not prepare a written report to
     the Chairman of the Board of Directors covering the grantee's
     involvement with the Advocacy Center. Section 1610.8 requires the
     Chairperson of the grantee's Board to certify annually that the
     grantee complies with program integrity requirements. In an October
     30, 1997 memorandum to all grantees, LSC required that the
     certification be supported by a written report from the Executive
     Director to the Chairman. The Executive Director told the OIG that
     for 1999 and 2000 he provided the Chairman an oral report in lieu of
     a written one. Based on these reports, the Chairman certified that
     the program complied with the program integrity requirement of
     Section 1610.8. If the Executive Director had reviewed his staff's
     involvement with the Advocacy Center as part of preparing a written
     report, he may have uncovered and been able to correct the program
     integrity problems we found.

     Case Review

     Cases filed in state circuit courts in Lane County and adjacent
     counties did not involve prohibited or restricted activities. We
     identified 59 cases filed in state courts with the grantee's
     employees as the attorney of record. OIG staff reviewed the
     pleadings and related materials for all 59 cases and discussed
     several cases with the grantee's staff. There were no indications
     that any of the cases involved restricted or prohibited activities.
     However, some cases were not reported to LSC as required.

     45 CFR Part 1644 requires grantees to semiannually report to LSC
     each case they file in court. The report must include the names of
     the parties to the case and the cause of action. Grantees are
     required to adopt written policies and procedures to implement this
     regulation. For calendar year 2000, the grantee reported that two
     cases were filed in state courts. One case should not have been
     reported because it was filled in 1999. The OIG identified seven
     additional cases that were not reported².

     The grantee has written procedures requiring the attorneys who file
     the cases to provide the case information to the grantee's
     Administrator who reports it to LSC. These procedures were not
     followed for the seven unreported cases. The responsible attorneys
     did not provide the required information to the Administrator.
     Grantee management agreed that a breakdown in procedures had
     occurred. The grantee implemented corrective action during the OIG's
     site visit.

                                 CONCLUSION

     The grantee made an effort to comply with the program integrity
     requirements of 1610.8 and related regulations. These efforts were
     not entirely successful and some violations of 1610.8 and the
     corollary regulations occurred. Most significantly, the grantee did
     not maintain objective integrity and independence from the Advocacy
     Center. To correct this problem, the grantee needs to establish a
     clear demarcation between itself and the Advocacy Center. Some
     things, such as the building sale and the intertwined financial
     arrangements, cannot be reasonably changed. The grantee does not
     need to relocate to a separate building. The needed separation can
     be established at relatively little cost by modifying procedures,
     adopting new ones, and clearly distinguishing the grantee from the
     Advocacy Center. The following recommendations provide for the
     needed changes.

                               RECOMMENDATIONS

     We recommend that Lane County Legal Aid Service management:

    1. Revise application materials provided to potential clients to state
       that the grantee does not engage in or endorse activities that are
       prohibited by LSC's Appropriation laws.
    2. Implement procedures requiring the grantee's Executive Director, or
       a designee, to approve all referred clients and assign professional
       staff to assist the client.
    3. Implement procedures requiring grantee employees to initially input
       client information into the case management system and create the
       client's case file.
    4. Implement controls that prevent the Advocacy Center from accessing
       the grantee's case management system.
    5. Assign a grantee employee to (a) coordinate the efforts of pro bono
       attorneys working in the PAI program and (b) act as the
       intermediary between clients and attorneys.
    6. Provide written notification on LCLAS letterhead to clients that a
       pro bono attorney will assist her/him at a designated location on a
       specified date and time.
    7. Establish an Internet web page separate from the Advocacy Center
       or, if a single web page is maintained, provide clear language that
       distinguishes the grantee from the Advocacy Center.
    8. Obtain a fax machine for the exclusive use of grantee staff.
    9. Request that the phone company separately list the grantee's
       telephone number and the Advocacy Center's number in the yellow
       pages.
   10. Rescind the policy jointly established by the grantee and the
       Advocacy Center that allows employees to be paid for a maximum of
       162.5 hours a month and to split their time between the two
       organizations.
   11. Adopt a new policy that establishes the maximum number of hours
       that grantee employees may be compensated for each month.
   12. Formally remind grantee employees that they are precluded from
       doing Advocacy Center work, except that considered de minimis, in
       the grantee's office space.
   13. Provide the grantee's Board Chairman an annual written report
       stating whether the grantee complies with the program integrity
       requirements of 45 CFR Part 1610.

                SUMMARY OF GRANTEE'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT REPORT
                           AND THE OIG'S RESPONSE

     GRANTEE COMMENT

     The grantee stated that the facts and conditions presented in the
     OIG's draft report are accurate. LCLAS stated that the OIG used an
     interpretive approach to the 45 CFR Part 1610.8 program integrity
     requirements in a few places. Grantee management asserted that the
     audit utilized an appearance standard whereas an objective standard
     should have been used.

     OIG RESPONSE

     The OIG objectively assessed the grantee's compliance with Section
     1610.8. This regulation states that a recipient must have objective
     integrity and independence from any organization that engages in
     restricted activities. The recipient must be physically and
     financially separate from the other organization. The preamble to
     Section 1610.8 states that the grantee must ensure that it is not
     identified with restricted activities and that the other
     organization is not so closely identified with the recipient that
     there might be confusion or misunderstanding about the recipient's
     involvement with or endorsement of prohibited activities. The facts
     clearly show that the grantee is closely identified with the
     Advocacy Center. After assessing all available information, we
     concluded that LCLAS did not maintain physical and financial
     separation from the Advocacy Center and did not maintain objective
     integrity and independence from that organization. The grantee did
     not provide any information to change our conclusion.

     GRANTEE COMMENT

     The grantee suggested that, if confusion and misunderstanding are
     used as a standard, any conclusions reached about the program
     integrity of a recipient should be based on a totality of objective
     facts. LCLAS management stated that to satisfy the totality
     requirement, positive factors demonstrating compliance with Section
     1610.8 should be considered. Grantee management indicated that a
     weighing of factors, those that conform vs. those that do not,
     should determine if a recipient is physically and financially
     separate from another organization.

     OIG RESPONSE

     The OIG considered positive as well as negative factors in reaching
     our conclusions. The conforming factors are not sufficient to offset
     the non-conforming factors. Section 1610.8(a)(3), states that
     "Whether sufficient physical and financial separation exists will be
     determined on a case-by-case basis and will be based on the totality
     of the facts." Based on the totality of the conditions under which
     the grantee and the Advocacy Center function, we concluded that
     LCLAS did not maintain physical and financial separation from the
     Advocacy Center.

     GRANTEE COMMENT

     The grantee stated that most of the recommendations are well within
     its capacity to complete and that they are being implemented. LCLAS
     requested that the OIG modify recommendations 5 and 7. The grantee
     stated that recommendation 5 did not address a pivotal question in
     the separation issue and it would be disruptive to assign grantee
     personnel to the PAI function. The grantee suggested that
     descriptive language on the website could provide sufficient
     separation between the grantee and the Advocacy Center.

     OIG RESPONSE

     Subsequent to receiving the comments, the OIG discussed the draft
     report with the grantee's Executive Director. The discussion
     primarily covered the requested changes to the recommendations.

     The discussion did not result in a change to the OIG's fifth
     recommendation. The Advocacy Center's staff oversees the grantee's
     pro bono program. Under this program one to four attorneys provide
     pro bono legal services to grantee clients on Tuesday evenings. The
     Advocacy Center's Executive Director determines which of the
     grantee's clients will be referred to a pro bono attorney. Advocacy
     Center employees coordinate the interaction between the grantee's
     clients and the pro bono attorneys. The grantee provides no
     oversight of the pro bono attorneys. The OIG recommendation will
     correct this condition and we reaffirm it.

     We modified the seventh recommendation. This recommendation required
     the grantee to "Establish an Internet web page separate from the
     Advocacy Center." We continue to believe that, in the Internet
     context, separate web pages are the best way to establish a clear
     distinction between the grantee and the Advocacy Center. The expense
     of implementing the recommendation is minimal. If separate web pages
     were established, they could be electronically linked so that a
     potential client could easily access both organizations.

     We understand the grantee's wish to have a single web page for both
     organizations. Therefore, we modified the recommendation to give the
     grantee the option of establishing a separate web page or providing
     clear language that distinguishes the grantee from the Advocacy
     Center. If the grantee decides that a single web page is
     appropriate, the web page must, at a minimum, clearly state that the
     grantee does not engage in restricted activities. It should also
     state that the grantee does not endorse or financially support the
     Advocacy Center's activities that LSC grantees are precluded from
     doing. Additional language distinguishing between the grantee and
     the Advocacy Center may also be needed.

     The full text of LCLAS's comments is in Appendix l.

     AUDIT ACTION PLAN

     Please provide an audit action plan for implementation of the
     recommendations. The plan should include a description of the action
     taken to implement the recommendations and the date corrective
     action was completed, or will be completed. Please submit the
     corrective plan to the OIG within 30 days of this report.

                                 BACKGROUND

     The grantee is a nonprofit corporation established to provide legal
     services to indigent individuals who meet eligibility guidelines.
     Its priority is family law including domestic violence issues. About
     77 percent of all cases closed by the grantee in 2000 related to
     family law. The grantee is located in Eugene, OR. It is staffed with
     nine attorneys and six other employees who assist case handlers and
     provide administrative support services. The grantee received total
     funding of over $852,000 during their most recent fiscal year, which
     ended June 30, 2001. LSC provided over $293,000 or about 34 percent
     of the total funds received by the grantee during that year. <

   Grantees are prohibited from transferring LSC funds to another person
   or organization that engages in restricted activities except when the
   transfer is for funding PAI activities. In these instances the
   prohibitions apply only to the LSC funds that were transferred to the
   person or entity performing within the PAI program. Grantees must also
   maintain objective integrity and independence from organizations that
   engage in restricted activities.

                     OBJECTIVES, SCOPE, AND METHODOLOGY

   This audit assessed whether the grantee complied with requirements
   established in 45 CFR Part 1610 relating to the transfer of funds to
   other organizations and program integrity standards.

   Our review covered the period July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2001. The
   OIG began this audit work in June 2001 and visited the grantee in
   Eugene, OR, July 16 through July 25, 2001. At LSC headquarters in
   Washington, DC, we reviewed materials pertaining to the grantee
   including its Certifications of Program Integrity, audited financial
   statements, grant proposals, and recipient profile. OIG staff discussed
   issues relating to the grantee with LSC management officials.

   During the on-site visit, the OIG interviewed and collected information
   from the Executive Director, attorneys, Administrator and other staff.
   Another legal services provider, Lane County Law and Advocacy Center,
   was located in the same building as the grantee. The OIG interviewed
   officials with the Advocacy Center, including the Executive Director.
   We ascertained whether the grantee employees were generally
   knowledgeable regarding the guidelines set forth in Part 1610. The
   audit included an assessment of the grantee policies and procedures
   applicable to the transfer of funds to other organizations and program
   integrity requirements.

   The OIG gained an understanding of the client intake process utilized
   by the grantee. The OIG identified the grantee's controls applicable to
   monitoring both pro bono and contract attorneys under its PAI program.

   The OIG searched courthouse records to identify cases for which an
   employee of the grantee was listed as the attorney of record. The
   search was confined to cases filed in 2000 in the state circuit courts
   in Lane County and surrounding counties. We identified and reviewed 59
   cases to determine if they involved a restrictive or prohibited
   activity.

   The OIG reviewed the grantee's financial accounts for vendors including
   contractors, employees, and consultants. From the 307 vendors
   identified in the grantee's Master Vendor List, we judgmentally
   selected 35 vendors and examined 100 percent of the activity. We
   reviewed 177 transactions totaling over $178,000.

   The OIG assessed the process used by the grantee to allocate direct and
   indirect costs to LSC and non-LSC funds. Policies and procedures
   relating to payroll and timekeeping were evaluated. The grantee
   employees were interviewed to determine their understanding as to which
   fund they should charge their time relative to case handling.

   All agreements between the grantee, and other organizations and
   individuals, were requested. The OIG reviewed all materials provided
   including grant funding instruments, leases, and contracts.

   We performed this audit in accordance with Government Auditing
   Standards (1994 revision) established by the Comptroller General of the
   United States and under authority of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
   as amended and Public Law 105-277, incorporating by reference Public
   Law 104-134.

                                                               APPENDIX ll

             OIG STAFF RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AUDIT AND THE REPORT

   Michael Griffith (Auditor-in-charge)

   Anthony M. Ramirez

   Abel Ortunio
     __________________________________________________________________

   ¹ All sections referenced in this report are in title 45 of the Code of
   Federal Regulations (CFR).

   ² The OIG identified 59 cases with a grantee employee as attorney of
   record. Fifty-one cases were not subject to Part 1644 reporting because
   the grantee attorney did not initially file the case.

   URL: http://www.oig.lsc.gov/reports/0201/938010.htm

   [return.gif]
