http://www.ocio.usda.gov/about_ocio.html

   Link to Text Version

small USDA logo

                                                                 usda ocio:  about_ocio

   the ocio label
   The USDA Secretary's Memorandum 1030-30 established the Office of the
   Chief Information Officer (OCIO). The CIO is independent of any other
   office or agency of the Department. The CIO reports directly to the
   Secretary and has primary responsibility, under the Information
   Technology Management Reform Act (ITMRA) of 1996, for supervision and
   coordination within the Department of the design, acquisition,
   maintenance, use and disposal of information technology by USDA
   agencies, for monitoring the performance of USDA's information
   technology programs and activities, and for assuring that USDA
   information management is consistent with the principles of the
   Paperwork Reduction Act and with information security and privacy
   requirements. The CIO consults with the Department's Chief Financial
   Officer to assure that the USDA's information technology programs and
   activities are carried out in a cost-effective manner, and that
   financial and related program information is reliable, consistent, and
   timely. The CIO also deals with top level officials in the Office of
   Management and Budget, other federal agencies, and appears to testify
   before Congressional committees.   ocio leadership
     * Ira L. Hobbs
       Chief Information Officer (Acting)
     * William D. Hadesty
       Associate Chief Information Officer for Cyber Security
     * Janice G. Lilja
       Associate Chief Information Officer
     * Gregory L. Parham
       Associate Chief Information Officer (Acting)
     * Kathleen A. Rundle
       Associate Chief Information Officer
     * William E. Gardner
       Senior Policy Advisor, Service Center Implementation


   ocio org label
   org chart thumb

   The OCIO Organizational Chart provides links and functional statements
   to all available areas.
   Blue Line

   Strategic Plan for FY 2000-2005

   The Office of the Chief Information Officer must provide effective
   leadership to USDA's agencies in the strategic acquisition and use of
   IT resources in a dynamic and changing IT environment. IT is a critical
   enabler for USDA's seven missions and historically disparate program
   areas. Understanding the opportunities and challenges posed by this
   environment is essential to framing the strategic focus for OCIO for
   the next three to five years.

   Major components include an OCIO mission statement, goals and
   objectives of the OCIO, and strategies and resources for achieving the
   goals and objectives.

   Revised FY 2001 and FY 2002 Annual Performance Plan
   This performance plan reflects changes that have been made to the OCIO
   Strategic Plan and previous performance plans.
   Link to (Word 131K) or (PDF 353K)

   FY 2000 Annual Program Performance Report
   The Goals and Objectives identified in the Revised 2000 and FY 2001
   Annual Performance Plan are listed in the Annual Program Performance
   Report. Each OCIO Program Activity follows with a description of the
   measurable indicators to support a specific Goal/Objective. Link to
   (Word 132K) or (PDF 246K)

http://www.ocio.usda.gov/about_ocio.html
We welcome your comments and suggestions about these pages.
Please direct them to: ociowebmaster@ociofc.usda.gov
Last Updated: 01.18.2002
