http://knoxville.fbi.gov/contact/fo/kx/contact.htm

     Graphic - FBI Seal

   FBI's Most Wanted - Knoxville

                               Link - History
                            Link - Press releases
                              Link - Locations
                                Link - Links
                               Link - Welcome
                               Link - Contact

                     Link - Privacy and Security Policy

                                                  Knoxville Field Office, FBI


                                                            How to contact us


      Graphic - blue ball Office Hours
      Graphic - blue ball Directions to the Knoxville Office
      Graphic - blue ball E-mail and Telephone Contact
      Graphic - blue ball Employment Opportunities


      Office Hours

      Although the FBI operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, normal
      "walk-in" business hours are from 8:15 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through
      Friday. If you need to speak with an FBI representative at any time
      other than during normal business hours, you may call (865) 544-0751.

      Directions to the Knoxville Office

      These are directions to the Knoxville Office of the Federal Bureau of
      Investigation, which is in the John J. Duncan Federal Building, 710
      Locust Street, Suite 600, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902.

      From the West:
      At the Interstate 40/75 split, proceed on the combined Interstate 40
      (East) and 75 (North). Travel 20.2 miles to exit 388. Take the exit
      toward "Route 441 South/Henley Street/Downtown." Follow the sign marked
      "Henley Street/University of Tennessee" and travel under the Knoxville
      overpass to the second traffic light. Turn left on West Church Avenue
      and proceed one block to Locust Street. Turn right and the Federal
      Building is on the left.

      From McGhee/Tyson Airport:
      Take Route 129 North approximately 12.1 miles to Interstate 40 East and
      take exit 388 (toward "Route 441 South/Henley Street/ Downtown"). At
      the second traffic light, turn left on West Church Avenue. Proceed one
      block to Locust Street and turn right. The Federal Building is on the
      left.

      From North of Knoxville:
      Take Interstate 75 South to 275 South, and follow signs that read
      "Route 441 South/Henley Street/Downtown." At the second traffic light,
      turn left on West Church Avenue and proceed one block to Locust Street.
      Turn right and the Federal Building is on the left.

      From East of Knoxville:
      On Interstate 40, proceed west toward downtown and at exit 388A, bear
      left at the "James White Parkway/Downtown/University of Tennessee/Route
      441" exit. Proceed approximately two tenths of a mile and bear right at
      the "Downtown/Cumberland Avenue" exit. Go past three traffic lights and
      the Federal Building is on the right.

      Parking:
      Parking directly next to the building is not allowed. However, parking
      is available in numerous parking lots and garages in the immediate
      area.

      E-mail and Telephone Contact

      You may also provide information to the Knoxville Field Office by
      sending e-mail to knoxville@fbi.gov. If possible, please include your
      address and telephone number in addition to your e-mail address. Due to
      the high volume of mail we receive, we cannot respond to all messages.

      If the information you wish to provide pertains to an emergency
      situation, please contact us at (865) 544-0751 or call your local
      office. Although we check our e-mail frequently, we do not consider it
      to be an alternative to telephonic contact in emergency situations.

      Please place all the information you wish to include in the body of the
      message. We ask that at least, initially, you do not include
      attachments because varying file types, encoding/compression schemes,
      and operating systems sometimes makes viewing them difficult.

      Employment Opportunities

      If you are interested in employment opportunities with the FBI, please
      look at the FBI Employment web page.


   History Press Releases

                                                         Locations

   Links

           Welcome

                          Contact Us
