http://www.bt.cdc.gov/LabIssues/index.asp

   Skip Navigation Links

   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   Public Health/Bioterrorism Preparedness & Response
   Site-wide Links


                Department of Health and Human Services - USA
   Agents & Threats
   Biological (listing)
   Chemical (listing)
   Radiological Emergencies
   Site Topics
   Preparation & Planning
   Emergency Response
   Lab Information
   Surveillance
   Media & Press Center
   Training
   Resources/Links
   En Español
   Página Principal del Terrorismo Biológico
   Public Inquiries
   English (888) 246-2675
   Español (888) 246-2857
   Mon-Fri 8am-11pm EST
   Sat-Sun 10am-8pm EST
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   1600 Clifton Rd.
   Atlanta, GA 30333
   U.S.A
   (404) 639-3311
   FirstGov
   Lab & Health Professionals
   Laboratory Information
   Overviews

   • Bioterrorism: An Overview
     Slide set. Covers the specific roles of different types of laboratories
     in the event of an attack and how each should respond.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (1.03 MB)
     Microsoft PowerPoint presentation (788 kB)
   •

     Agents of Bioterrorism
     Slide set. Describes specific tests Level A microbiology laboratories
     should perform to rule out a suspected organism or refer it to another
     laboratory.

     Part 1:
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (10.9 MB)
     Microsoft PowerPoint presentation (788 KB)

     Part 2:
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (13.1 MB)
     Microsoft PowerPoint presentation (788 KB)
   Testing and Presumptive Agent Identification

   • Level A Laboratory Protocols: Presumptive Agent Identification
     Commonly requested protocols listed below. Protocols for other biologic
     agents are located on each agent's page.
     Anthrax Adobe Acrobat Reader (100 KB)
     Botulism Adobe Acrobat Reader (114 KB)
     Brucellosis Adobe Acrobat Reader (330 KB)
     Plague Adobe Acrobat Reader (293 KB)
     Tularemia Adobe Acrobat Reader (202 KB)
   • Presumptive Bacillus Anthracis Identification and Similar Organisms
     Table.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (72 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (8 KB)
   • Presumptive Brucella Spp Identification and Similar Organisms
     Table.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (68 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (8 KB)
   • Specimen Selection
     Table. Selection, transport, storage, plating and processing, by
     disease agent.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (303 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (29 KB)
   • Spot Tests of Selected Organisms
     Table.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (96 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (10KB)
   Biosafety

   • Microbiology Biosafety
     Table. Risk and precautions for Level A laboratories, by agent.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (303 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (11 KB)
   • Vaccines
     Table. Vaccine type, efficacy, comments, and requirements, by agent.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (57 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (11 KB)
   • Summary of Biosafety Level 1 & 2 for Infectious Agents
     Table of primary and secondary containment methods, equipment, and
     facilities.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (54 KB)
     Corel WordPerfect document (11 KB)
   Shipping Specimens

   •

     Packaging Protocols for Biological Agents/Diseases
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (61 KB)
   Agent Access, Use, and Transfer Regulations, Registration

   • Laboratory Registration/Select Agent Transfer Program
     Regulations regarding registration for access, use, and transfer of
     select agents for research purposes. From the Office of Health and
     Safety.
   Training

   • Coping with Bioterrorism - The Role of the Laboratorian
     On University of North Carolina School of Public Health Web site
   • Response to Bioterrorism – Part 1: Overview and Clinical Aspects of
     Critical Biological Agents
     RealPlayer video (1 hour 35 minutes) Requires the RealPlayer plugin
   • Response to Bioterrorism – Part 2: The Laboratory Response Network
     and Agents of Bioterrorism
     RealPlayer video (1 hour 8 minutes) Requires the RealPlayer plugin
   • National Laboratory Training Network (NLTN)
     Provides clinical, environmental, and public health laboratory training
     courses. Site includes extensive bioterrorism resources
   • Centers for Public Health Preparedness
     Helps local public health workers prepare to respond to health threats,
     including bioterrorism
   Laboratory Response Network

   •

     The Laboratory Response Network for Bioterrorism (LRN)
     Slide set. Describes responsibilities of each type of laboratory, how
     to access the State Public Health Laboratory, the Centers for Disease
     Control and Prevention, and the FBI to refer or report suspected
     agents.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (771 KB)
   Contacts

   • Program questions:
     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Bioterrorism
     Preparedness and Response Program, 404-639-0385.
   • Training questions:
     Public Health Practice Program Office, Division of Laboratory Systems,
     770-488-8295.

   Related Resources

   • Visit the Lab and Health Professionals area for clinical,
     epidemiologic and response information.
   • American Society for Microbiology

   Top of Page

   PHEPR Home | Lab & Health Professionals | About | FAQ | Contact Us

   CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

   In general all information presented in these pages and all items
   available for download are for public use. However, you may encounter
   some pages that require a login password and id. If this is the case
   you may assume that information presented and items available for
   download therein are for your authorized access only and not for
   redistribution by you unless you are otherwise informed.
   Content-related questions should be directed to: Content Administrator
   Site-related questions should be directed to: Webmaster
   This page last reviewed:
   Privacy Policy | Accessibility
   ** Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 may be required for large documents**
