http://www.phila.gov/pdfs/PhillySchoolsSRCannounce-1-15-01.pdf

   N E W S R E L E A S E COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA OFFICE OF THE
   GOVERNOR Commonwealth News Bureau Room 308, Main Capitol Harrisburg, PA
   17120 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Steve Aaron Press Secretary (717)
   783-1116 GOV. SCHWEIKER AND MAYOR STREET ANNOUNCE MEMBERS OF
   PHILADELPHIA SCHOOL REFORM COMMISSION Philadelphians Gallagher and
   Whelan join Chairman Nevels as Governor's selections PHILADELPHIA (Jan.
   14) - Gov. Mark Schweiker today announced he will appoint two
   Philadelphia residents to the newly created School Reform Commission
   that is now the governing body of the Philadelphia School District. The
   Governor's new appointees are James P. Gallagher, Ph.D., President of
   Philadelphia University, and Daniel J. Whelan, President and CEO of
   Verizon Pennsylvania. The Governor also announced that he has asked
   interim SRC Chairman James E. Nevels, Chairman and CEO of the
   Swarthmore Group Inc., to stay on as the permanent chairman of the
   Commission. Nevels has agreed. Gov. Schweiker made the announcement
   with Philadelphia Mayor John Street at Gen. Philip Kearny Elementary
   School. The Mayor also announced his two appointees to the Commission
   -- Philadelphians Sandra Dungee Glenn and Michael Masch -- completing
   the slate of five members. "On Dec. 21, Mayor Street and I stood
   together to announce our historic agreement to turn around
   Philadelphia's public schools," Gov. Schweiker said. "We come together
   again today to announce the team that will launch this school district
   on an exciting path toward academic achievement and financial
   stability. "Like hundreds of other schools across the city, Kearny
   Elementary and its young students will be the ultimate beneficiaries of
   what we are doing today." -more- Page 2 -- GOVERNOR AND MAYOR ANNOUNCE
   SCHOOL REFORM COMMISSION Gov. Schweiker hailed Gallagher, Whelan and
   Nevels as education advocates who will put children first in their
   efforts to reinvent the Philadelphia School District. "As president,
   Jim Gallagher led the transformation of Philadelphia University into an
   academically and financially vibrant university," Gov. Schweiker said.
   "And as chairman of the State Board of Education, Jim has been at the
   forefront of some of this Administration's key education reforms, such
   as rigorous new academic standards in math, reading and science for our
   children and our schools. "Jim has proven his leadership in education
   -- as a teacher, an administrator and an innovator -- for more than a
   quarter century. As a member of the Commission, he will bring that
   skill and experience to bear on reforming the Philadelphia School
   District." Since 1995, Gallagher has served as the chairman of the
   Pennsylvania State Board of Education, a post that he will resign
   before assuming his role on the School Reform Commission. Gallagher
   -more- Page 3 -- GOVERNOR AND MAYOR ANNOUNCE SCHOOL REFORM COMMISSION
   also is a trustee of Mount Aloysius College in Cresson, Cambria County,
   and the American University of Rome. He is a board member of Girard
   College, the University City Science Center and the Philadelphia
   Convention and Visitors Bureau. Gallagher is a former trustee of
   Lincoln and Temple universities, the Western Pennsylvania School for
   the Deaf in Pittsburgh, and the Pennsylvania School for the Deaf in
   Philadelphia. Gallagher earned his doctorate in higher education at
   Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.; a master's of
   education degree in educational administration from Duquesne
   University, Pittsburgh; and a bachelor's degree in education and
   history at St. Francis College, Loretto, Cambria County. "I am honored
   that Gov. Schweiker has asked me to serve the Commonwealth of
   Pennsylvania and the City of Philadelphia by joining the School Reform
   Commission," Gallagher said. "I strongly believe it is our duty to
   bring about the necessary change to ensure the success of every student
   who attends a public school in Philadelphia. This goal will only be
   achieved by taking full advantage of the partnership that the School
   Reform Commission represents -- a partnership that will include
   students, teachers, families and all those who are interested in a
   bright future for Philadelphia." Whelan began his career with Verizon
   Pennsylvania, then Bell of Pennsylvania, in 1977. Whelan also serves on
   Verizon Pennsylvania's -more- Page 4 -- GOVERNOR AND MAYOR ANNOUNCE
   SCHOOL REFORM COMMISSION Board. An active community and business
   leader, Whelan is chairman of Greater Philadelphia First and a board
   member of the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce; the Free
   Library of Philadelphia Foundation; the Regional Performing Arts
   Center; the Historical Society of Pennsylvania; the Pennsylvania
   Chamber of Business and Industry; the Team Pennsylvania Foundation; the
   Pennsylvania Business Roundtable; the Temple Law School Board of
   Advisors; and the World Affairs Council of Philadelphia. Whelan
   graduated cum laude in 1974 from the Temple University School of Law,
   where he was Editor-in- Chief of the Law Review, and from La Salle
   College in 1968, with a bachelor's of arts degree in philosophy. He
   served in the U.S. Navy from 1968 through 1971. "With Dan Whelan at the
   helm, Verizon Pennsylvania has served the Commonwealth through one of
   the most advanced telecommunications networks in America," Gov.
   Schweiker said. "But his leadership extends well beyond his business
   skills. Dan is an active advocate for the Philadelphia community and he
   knows that the health of his city depends on children who have the firm
   foundation of a good education. "Born here, Dan grew up in a row home
   near the corner of Broad Street and Wyoming Avenue. He pursued his own
   education here, earning degrees from LaSalle and Temple. He knows
   Philadelphia through and through. Dan's insights and expertise will be
   an incredible asset to the school district and to the city." -more-
   Page 5 -- GOVERNOR AND MAYOR ANNOUNCE SCHOOL REFORM COMMISSION Whelan
   said, "I'm honored to be part of this Commission. The problems facing
   Philadelphia's schools are complex and deep-rooted, but neither the
   city nor the business community can succeed with a failing educational
   system. "If we don't confront that fact, we doom our kids and our city
   to second-class status. We are five practical people of good will. We
   intend to be patient, deliberate and objective. And we ask the public
   to be the same as we move through the process." Gov. Schweiker named
   Nevels as interim chairman of the District's new School Reform
   Commission on Dec. 21, 2001. Nevels will retain this role. "In just a
   few short weeks, Jim Nevels has hit the ground running," Gov. Schweiker
   said. "He has provided strong leadership and decisive direction for
   Philadelphia's schools. We are fortunate to have him on our team."
   Nevels said, "I congratulate my fellow members of the Commission. It is
   an honor to play a role in the transformation and renewal of the
   Philadelphia School District, and I am looking forward to working with
   them to achieve great things for those who teach and learn here." Gov.
   Schweiker and Mayor Street reached agreement on Dec. 21, on how to
   transform the Philadelphia School District into the best urban school
   system in the nation. That evening, Department of Education Secretary
   Charles Zogby, in accordance with Act 46, signed a -more- Page 6 --
   GOVERNOR AND MAYOR ANNOUNCE SCHOOL REFORM COMMISSION Declaration of
   Distress, triggering the formation of the local School Reform
   Commission to begin the transition to reform. In accordance with a
   Memorandum of Understanding entered into by the Governor and Mayor
   Street, the Commonwealth turned over operations of the Philadelphia
   School District to the Commission at 12:01 a.m. Saturday, Dec. 22.
   Under the terms of Act 46, the new, five-person Commission appointed by
   Gov. Schweiker and Mayor Street will oversee the district, with
   Commissioners serving terms of up to seven years. Former Gov. Tom Ridge
   and Mayor Street agreed to a two-month review of the Philadelphia
   School District at a July 19 meeting at the Governor's Residence. To
   help him develop his plan, then-Gov. Ridge hired Edison Schools Inc. to
   perform the review. On Sept. 26, Mayor Street agreed to an extension of
   the Commonwealth's original deadlines to enable Gov. Schweiker to
   develop the plan after Gov. Ridge was tapped to become the nation's
   first Director of Homeland Security. # # # 2002
