http://lieberman.senate.gov/newsite/biography.cfm?lowsrc=true


     [title_final_low.jpg]
     High End Version

     [menu_greeting.jpg]
     Audio

     Video

     [menu1.jpg]
     Biography

     En Espanol

     [menu2.jpg]
     Congressional
     Record

     Internet Legislative Search

     Voting Record

     Governmental Affairs

     Armed Services

     Environment and
     Public Works

     Small Business

     [menu3.jpg]
     Office Addresses &
     Contact Information

     Internship
     Opportunities

     Intern
     Application

     U.S. Service
     Academies

     Academy
     Nomination Form

     Constituent
     Casework

     Asistencia Social
     Al Constituyente

     Tour Information

     1999 Summer
     Interns

     U.S. Flag
     Ordering
     Information

     [menu4.jpg]
     Open Gallery

     [menu5.jpg]
     Press Releases
     By Date

     Press Releases
     By Issue

     [menu6.jpg]
     Press Releases

     Committee on
     Governmental
     Affairs

     [menu7.jpg]
     E-Mail Form

     [menu8.jpg]
     Connecticut Issues

     Consumer Affairs

     Business &
     Economy

     Education

     Environment

     Foriegn Affairs &
     Defense

     Good Government

     Health Care

     Media, Culture
     & Values

     Science &
     Technology

     Seniors &
     Veterans Issues

     [menu_subscribe.jpg]
     Subscribe to My Newsletter
     By Entering Your E-Mail Address
     ____________________
     [menu_topics.jpg]
     Upcoming Events

     Media, Culture, & Values

     Oil & Gas Prices

     West Nile Virus

     [menu_links.jpg]

     Towns and Cities

     Tourist Attractions

     Colleges & Universities

     Media Outlets

     Culture

     Hospitals

     Official CT Site

     Senate

     House of Representatives

     Library of Congress

     White House

     Social Security

     D.C. Tourism

     Other Links

     [menu_search.jpg]
     ____________________

     Privacy Policy

     [new_portrait.jpg] Now entering his third term in the United States
   Senate, Connecticut's Joe Lieberman has earned a national reputation as
   a thoughtful, principled, and effective legislator. A nationally
   recognized leader of the Democratic Party, in 2000 he was the
   Democratic candidate for Vice President, becoming the first
   Jewish-American to be nominated for that office. In addition, he
   received more votes for Vice-President than any Democrat in history.

   He is known as a Democrat who works across party lines to find common
   ground, who speaks his conscience, and who gets things done for his
   constituents and his country.

   That reputation is based on a diverse and distinguished record:

   Lieberman is a respected leader on reforming and modernizing our
   nation's defenses, a prominent voice on foreign policy issues, and an
   influential champion of international human rights. He is a strong
   advocate for investing in our public schools and spurring bold
   education reform.

   Lieberman is pro-business, pro-trade, and pro-economic growth. He is
   equally committed to protecting Americas workers, consumers, and
   environment. Lieberman is a vocal advocate for campaign finance reform
   and restoring public confidence in the political process. And he is
   dedicated to strengthening Americas families and renewing our common
   values.

   JOE LIEBERMAN was first elected to the Senate in 1988, scoring the
   nations biggest political upset that year by a margin of just 10,000
   votes. Six years later, he made history by winning the biggest
   landslide victory ever in a Connecticut Senate race, drawing 67 percent
   of the vote and beating his opponent by more than 350,000 votes. In
   2000, Lieberman was elected to a third term, garnering 64 percent of
   the vote.

   When control of the Senate switched from Republican to Democratic hands
   in June 2000, Lieberman became Chair of the Governmental Affairs
   Committee, with oversight responsibilities over a broad range of
   government activities. In addition, he is a member of the Environment
   and Public Works Committee and chair of its Subcommittee Clean Air,
   Wetlands and Private Property; the Armed Services Committee, where he
   chairs the Subcommittee on AirLand Forces and sits of the Subcommittee
   on Emerging Threats and Capabilities; and the Small Business Committee.

     Lieberman's accomplishments include:

                       Strengthening National Security

     Securing funding to strengthen and modernize Americas military
     forces; Co-authoring the Gulf War Resolution; Co-sponsoring the
     International Religious Freedom Act to promote the right to worship
     freely across the globe; Rallying support in Congress to stop the
     genocidal slaughter in Bosnia and Kosovo.

                          Expanding Economic Growth

     Fighting for a balanced budget and fiscal discipline to help lower
     interest rates and keep the economy growing; Promoting new funding
     for research and development in science and technology, a key to our
     innovation-oriented economy; Cutting capital gains taxes to spur new
     investment for American industries; Creating new skills training
     initiatives for American workers; Supporting the development of
     e-commerce, including a moratorium on Internet taxes.

                             Improving Education

     Authoring landmark education reform legislation that would
     dramatically increase funding for disadvantaged students, give
     states and local districts greater flexibility in targeting their
     resources, set tough accountability standards to demand results, and
     provide more support for teachers; Expanding educational options for
     parents by expanding funding for charter schools; Increasing access
     to student loans and federal financial aid; Creating education IRAs
     to help families save for college.

                         Protecting the Environment

     Strengthening Clean Air standards and cracking down on illegal
     polluters; Leading the fight against legislation that would undercut
     our ability to protect natural resources, public health, and
     American families; Fighting to protect the Arctic National Wildlife
     Refuge in Alaska from oil drilling; Creating Connecticuts first
     national park at Weir Farm; Promoting national wildlife refuges
     along the Connecticut River and the Sound coastline; Fighting lead
     poisoning, Lyme Disease, pesticide use in schools, and the spread of
     the deadly West Nile Virus.

                            Reforming Government

     Writing the first major campaign finance law to pass in a
     generation, which closed a loophole that allowed political
     organizations to raise and spend money in secret; Winning passage of
     the Congressional Accountability Act, which makes Congress live by
     the same laws it applies to the nation; Exposing government waste,
     such as the federal contracts that paid 67 cents a page for
     photocopying services and $69 an hour for security guards; Promoting
     "e-government" and improving federal services through the Internet.

                          Strengthening Communities

     Co-sponsoring the Crime Bill and winning funding to put more cops on
     the beat in Connecticut; Creating Enterprise Zones to stimulate
     investment and rebuild America's cities; Supporting sweeping Welfare
     Reform bill and adding provisions to assist teenage mothers,
     discourage out-of-wedlock pregnancies, and help states that move
     welfare recipients into self-supporting jobs; Helping low-income
     families save for the future and build economic security through
     Individual Development Accounts; Fighting for common-sense gun
     safety laws.

                          Protecting Common Values

     Co-authoring the V-chip law to give parents new tools to shield
     their children from offensive and harmful programs on television;
     Pushing the video game industry to create a rating system to help
     parents make informed choices for their children; Spurring new
     efforts to make the Internet safer for kids; Raising awareness of
     the growing crisis of father absence and supporting grassroots
     efforts to promote responsible fatherhood; Fighting discrimination
     in the workplace based on religion and sexual orientation.

   In addition to his work in Washington, Lieberman is proud of his
   success in cutting through government red tape to help tens of
   thousands of constituents -- recovering lost Social Security checks,
   securing long-overdue military medals, obtaining life-saving medical
   treatment, winning approval for small business loans, and delivering
   desperately-needed disaster relief. Lieberman is also proud of his
   close connection to the people of Connecticut, which he maintains in
   part with his well-known visits to diners around the state. To date
   Lieberman has visited more than 100 local eateries, where his
   constituents have a "cup of joe" with Joe and Lieberman gets an
   unfiltered taste of their concerns and views.

   Lieberman was born in Stamford, Connecticut on February 24, 1942, and
   attended public schools there. He received his bachelor's degree from
   Yale College in 1964 and his law degree from Yale Law School in 1967.
   Lieberman was elected to the Connecticut State Senate in 1970 and
   served there for 10 years, including the last 6 as Majority Leader.
   From 1982 to 1988, he served as Connecticut's 21st Attorney General.

   He is the author of five books: The Power Broker (1966), a biography of
   the late Democratic Party chairman, John M. Bailey; The Scorpion and
   the Tarantula (1970), a study of early efforts to control nuclear
   proliferation; The Legacy (1981), a history of Connecticut politics
   from 1930-1980; Child Support in America (1986), a guidebook on methods
   to increase the collection of child support from delinquent fathers,
   and In Praise of Public Life (2000), a spirited defense of public life
   that draws on personal experience.

   Lieberman is a past chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council,
   which is "an idea center, catalyst, and national voice for a reform
   movement that is reshaping American politics by moving it beyond the
   old left-right debate."

   Lieberman lives in New Haven and Washington with his wife Hadassah.
   They are the parents of four children: Matthew, Rebecca, Ethan, and
   Hana. They also have two granddaughters, Tennessee and Willie.
