http://www.adr.noaa.gov/definitions.html

   [logo.gif] [spacer.gif]
                            [insidehead.gif]
                           [beigedot.gif]
                           [definitions.gif]


   ADR Q & A
   Dr. Baker's Memo
   Mediation Process
   Request for Mediation
   Preparing for Mediation
   Definitions
   Feedback form
   Contact Us
   Other Resources
   Home
   [spacer.gif]
   ADR Definitions

   Alternative Dispute Resolution - Decision making processes to resolve
   conflicts that do not involve litigation, or formal EEO complaints,
   formal grievances, or disciplinary actions.

   Common courtesy - When you agree to mediate using common courtesy, you
   are agreeing not to interrupt another speaker, and to avoid using
   inflammatory language.

   Good faith - When you agree to mediating in "good faith", you are
   agreeing to be willing to listen, to share all pertinent information,
   to keep an open mind, and to be willing to negotiate without holding to
   a fixed position.

   Interest - A concern, need, or desire behind an issue - why the issue
   is being raised.

   Interest-based negotiation - A process that seeks to discover and
   satisfy the underlying interests of parties rather than to meet the
   stated positions or demands they bring to negotiation. Also known as
   win-win negotiation.

   Issue - A subject under discussion or negotiation, the what, the
   problem to be solved.

   Mediation - A structured dispute resolution process in which a person
   or persons with no interest in the outcome of the conflict assist the
   disputants in reaching a negotiated settlement of their differences.
   The mediation process is voluntary and aims at a signed agreement
   defining future behavior of the disputants. The mediators help parties
   communicate, negotiate, and reach agreements and settlements but are
   not empowered to render a decision.

   Option - A potential, often partial, solution that can meet one or more
   interests.

   Position-based negotiation - A term that describes the traditional
   approach to negotiation, in which the parties are firmly committed to
   their bargaining position and exchange proposals and counter proposals
   in the anticipation that one or more parties will compromise to achieve
   a settlement of the dispute. Also known as win-lose negotiation.

   Return to top

   [beigedot.gif]

      ADR Q & A · Dr. Baker's Memo · Mediation Process · Request for
                    Mediation · Preparing for Mediation
  ADR Definitions · Feedback Form · Contact Us · Other Resources · Home

                     NOAA Alternative Dispute Resolution
                Telephone: 206-526-6171 · Fax: 206-527-0335
       7600 Sand Point Way, WC-2, BIN C15700 · Seattle, WA 98115-0070
                         © 2000, NOAA, ADR@noaa.gov
