http://www.cio.anl.gov/business/index.html

   Security & Privacy Notice


   Argonne National Laboratory, Office of the Chief Information Officer
     What's New Site Map [over_off.gif] Contacts Links



   Cybersecurity
   Information Policies
   Business Applications
   Computing Infrastructure
   Staff
   Publications
   Intranet


[bahead.gif]

   Argonne's Office of the Chief Information Officer is responsible for
   general oversight of the business systems that support administrative
   operations for the Laboratory, which has 4,200 employees, 200 research
   programs, and a $465 million budget. Custom systems have been developed
   for financial management, procurement, human resources, health and
   safety, facilities management, budgeting, information retrieval, and
   records management. These applications are implemented in a distributed
   computing environment involving Web applications and client-server
   technologies, primarily based on Oracle and SQL*SERVER database
   engines.

   More information is available from the Management Information Systems
   Department of the Electronics and Computing Technologies Division.

Selected Argonne Business Applications

Argonne Information Management System (AIM)

   The AIM System delivers the Argonne library catalogue to the
   researcher's desktop. It also allows access to a service providing
   customized automatic literature searches and access to specialized
   indexes and electronic journals. The AIM system also delivers online
   manuals for operating policies and procedures, including environment,
   safety, and health. Furthermore, it provides an internal database for
   recording publications by Argonne staff. Finally, it gives x-ray
   diffraction scientists convenient desktop and remote access to an
   authoritative and widely cited compilation of powder diffraction
   patterns. The AIM System is operated by the Information and Publishing
   Division.

Chemical Management System (CMS)

   The CMS is a Windows-based application that stores and manages safety
   and inventory information about the chemicals used at Argonne. It has
   two parts: the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) system and the
   Chemical Tracking System. Registered users can access the chemical
   tracking database; all Laboratory employees can use the Web to access a
   list of surplus chemicals and a database of more than 30,000 MSDSs. The
   surplus chemicals exchange helps researchers cut the cost of purchasing
   and disposing of supplies.

Fiscal Year Budget System (FYBS)

   The FYBS is used to enter, store, and report on yearly budgeting
   information for Argonne's scientific divisions. Users work from a local
   server to develop a budget, then send the completed budget to a central
   database. The system helps users model scientific and overhead costs,
   so they can determine the correct labor rates to charge. It also
   supports detailed cost planning for each task. Because the system is
   integrated with funds allocation and cost accounting systems, the users
   can determine what the funding is for a particular task, make sure the
   budget is balanced against current and anticipated funding, and compare
   budgets with current year-to-date costs. The FYBS is operated by the
   Office of the Chief Financial Officer.

Procurement and Requisition Integrated System (PARIS)

   PARIS is an all-electronic, integrated procurement process. Employees
   use the system to create a requisition, route it for approval, forward
   it to the Procurement Department for processing, and check on its
   status. The Procurement Department uses the system to manage the
   requisition throughout its lifetime. PARIS is operated by the
   Procurement Department.

Training Management System (TMS)

   In a research environment where employees may be required to work with
   hazardous or toxic materials or in severe conditions, up-to-date
   training is critical. Argonne's TMS is a Windows-based computer
   application that helps management and employees identify training needs
   on the basis of workplace hazards and responsibilities. It also allows
   managers to maintain records of completed training.


             Home | What's New | Overview | Contacts | Site Map
          Cyber Security | Policies | Applications | Infrastructure
     Staff | Publications | Links | lntranet | Security & Privacy Notice
