http://www.whitehouse.gov/response/diplomaticresponse.html


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   Appointments
   Application
   Major Speeches
   Presidential Address 10-7
   Joint Session 9-20
   National Day
   of Prayer 9-14
   Joint Session 2-27
   Inaugural 1-20
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag

    Home > America Responds


      Diplomatic Actions
      Presidential Diplomatic Actions President Meets with Afghan Interim
      Authority Chairman
      President to Welcome Pakistani President to Washington
      President to Welcome German Chancellor Schroeder
      President to Welcome Afghanistan's Interim Authority Chairman
      Uruguayan President to Visit Washington
      President Bush, Turkish Prime Minister Discuss War on Terrorism
      President Bush Meets with Prime Minister of Greece

      Photos: International Response
      Actions on the Front Abroad
      Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Marc Grossman joined
      Chairman Hamid Karzai at the Embassy of Afghanistan for a flag raising
      ceremony on Monday, January 28, 2002. The flag raising ceremony marked
      Afghanistan’s official return of diplomats to Washington D.C. The
      embassy is currently under restoration and will not be fully
      operational for approximately six months. Source: U.S. Department of
      State

      Secretary Powell visited India and spoke to the press with Indian
      Foreign Minister Jaswant Singh. Source: U.S. Department of State

      Secretary Powell visited Pakistan and spoke to the press with Pakistani
      Foreign Minister Abdul Sattar. Source: U.S. Department of State

      Diplomatic Actions
      With U.S. leadership and with international support, Afghans have put
      aside long-standing ethnic and political differences to form a new
      interim government, naming a president and 29 ministers with portfolio.
      The new government will also include women, who have been oppressed by
      the Taliban regime.
      On December 11, more than 120 nations around the world answered
      President Bush's call to reject terrorism and commemorate the victims
      of the September 11 attacks by holding remembrance ceremonies.
      The United States and several other allies have reopened embassies in
      Kabul.


   By the Numbers
   [number1.gif] 197 countries and jurisdictions have expressed their
   support for the financial war on terror.
   [number1.gif] 147 countries have issued orders freezing terrorist
   assets, and others have requested U.S. help in improving their legal
   and regulatory systems so they can more effectively block terrorist
   funds.
   [number1.gif] Since September 11, the U.S. has blocked $34.2 million in
   assets of terrorist organizations. Other nations have also blocked
   another $45.8 million for a total of $79.9 million


   America Responds   Homeland Security Actions   Diplomatic Actions
        Military Actions   Financial Actions   Investigative Actions
                                                Humanitarian Actions
                                                 [responds-tiny.gif]

   President George W. Bush listens to Chairman of the Afghan Interim
   Authority Hamid Karzai during their joint press conference in the Rose
   Garden, January 28. "Chairman Karzai is a determined leader, and his
   government reflects the hopes of all Afghans for a new and better
   future; a future free from terror, free from war, and free from want,"
   said the President. White House photo by Paul Morse. President George
   W. Bush listens to Chairman of the Afghan Interim Authority Hamid
   Karzai during their joint press conference in the Rose Garden, January
   28. "Chairman Karzai is a determined leader, and his government
   reflects the hopes of all Afghans for a new and better future; a future
   free from terror, free from war, and free from want," said the
   President.

   Background on the War on Terrorism
   Fact Sheet What is the War on Terrorism?
   Fact Sheet How is the United States helping the Afghan people?

   How You Can Help
   Rewards for Justice Program
   Federal Bureau of Investigation 1-800-CRIME-TV
   President Unveils "Most Wanted" Terrorists

   [300-AFAChorizontal.gif]

   Solidarity Among Nations The world stands united in this effort.
   The War on Terrorism is not about any religion, country, or race.
   Our coalition partners represent nations and peoples of all cultures,
   religions and ethnic groups.
   Dozens of countries contributed to this operation in significant ways.
   We support the Afghan people against al Qaeda, which is a foreign
   presence on their land

   Russian President Vladimir Putin: "The series of barbaric terrorist
   acts, directed against innocent people, has evoked our anger and
   indignation...There is no doubt that such inhuman actions cannot be
   left unpunished. The whole international community must rally in the
   fight against terrorism."
   Source: U.S. Department of State

   Coalition Against Terrorism Department of State's Counterterrorism
   Office

   U.S. Counterterrorism Policy
   Make no concessions to terrorists and strike no deals.
   Bring terrorists to justice for their crimes.
   Isolate and apply pressure on countries that sponsor terrorism to force
   them to change their behavior.
   Bolster the counterterrorism capabilities of those countries that work
   with the U.S. and require assistance.
   Source: U.S. Department of State

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
