http://www.rib.uscourts.gov/courtforms/GenInstruc/Form_A.PDF

   AMENDED RI Bank. Form A See R.I. LBR 1002-1(d) United States Bankruptcy
   Court District of Rhode Island Instructions For Submission Of The
   Creditor Matrix On Computer disk General Information Our new automated
   system, Autocop, allows users to submit the list of creditors on a 3 ½"
   high-density disk supplied at the time of the filing. The following
   guidelines must be strictly followed in order to correctly process the
   case being filed. Submitting the list of creditors on a computer disk
   allows the court to efficiently process a higher volume of cases in a
   faster amount of time. Disk Type: Must be a 3 ½ disk in Microsoft
   compatible format in any density up to 1.44 MB. File Requirements: 1.
   Each case must be submitted with a separate disk containing the
   creditors with their addresses; the system can only read one file per
   disk. 2. The file must be saved in a "pure text" format (see subsection
   Text Format on the following page) 3. The file must be located in the
   disk's root directory and named matrix.txt File Content: The creditor
   list should only include the specific creditors to that particular
   case. Because the court has software which will automatically add the
   debtor, joint debtor, debtor's attorney, case trustee and US Trustee,
   DO NOT add these names to the list of creditors. Text Format: The
   creditor list saved as matrix.txt must be in ASCII, or "pure text"
   format in order for the court's computer to read the data. All word
   processing packages have the capability of saving a word processing
   document as "pure text". Any text editor such as the DOS editor (EDIT),
   most word processors like WordPerfect or Microsoft Word are capable of
   producing the required output. (See subsection on File Saving and
   Labeling Disk). Page 2 Instructions For Submission Of Creditor Format:
   0. Must be typed in Courier 12 point font (10cpi) 1. Lists should be
   typed in a single column 2. Each name and address must consist of no
   more than 5 (five) total lines of single spaced type 3. One blank line
   should appear between each creditor address 4. ZIP codes must be
   located on the same line as the city and state which should be the last
   line of the address 5. Use ZIP +4 format with a hyphen between the
   fifth and the sixth number 6. Each line must be 30 characters or less
   in length 7. If "attention" lines are used, they should appear on the
   second line of the address, not on the last line 8. No headers, footers
   or page numbers should be used in the text 9. Use initial capital
   letters. The court will not accept all capital letters. 10. No
   punctuation should be used except for the hyphen in item (5) above.
   File Saving and Labeling Disks: 1. After all creditors are typed, the
   file should be saved to a diskette in text format, not the word
   processor's document format. The file name should be matrix.txt Example
   Instructions for Microsoft Word or WordPerfect for Windows. After the
   matrix has been typed, place a formatted diskette in the floppy drive
   and select the following items from the menu bar at the top of the
   window: File Save As Save File as Type: (select one of the following
   type) MS-DOS Text or ASCII (DOS) Text File Name: (enter matrix.txt in
   the box below this item) Drives: A: (or whatever is appropriate for
   your PC) Ok (left click the button one time with the mouse to complete
   saving the file) Page 3 Example Instructions for Word Perfect 5.1 for
   DOS After the matrix has been typed, place a formatted diskette in the
   floppy drive and select the following keyboard commands. +f5 (hold the
   `CTRL' key down and press the "f5" key) next select 1 Dos Text Next
   select 1 Save Document to be saved (DOS Text): (enter the drive letter
   and file name: `A:matrix.txt 2. Do not write on a disk label with
   ballpoint pen because the disk may be damaged. Use a felt-tip pen or
   write lightly in pencil. The following information should be included
   on each disk submitted: name of submitting firm or practitioner
   debtor's full name the number of creditors on the disk 3. It is
   advisable to save a backup copy of the creditor file, either on the
   hard drive of the computer or a second diskette, in case another copy
   of the file is needed later. Returning Disk: If the filing takes place
   at the court window, the disk will be submitted immediately, scanned
   and returned to the filer. If the filing takes place through the
   mail/overnight box, the disk will be returned along with any extra
   copies of documents, provided that a self-addressed, stamped envelope
   is supplied. Computer Virus Protection: The court has computer software
   which scans disks for viruses in order to prevent possible damage to
   court records as well as affording protection to those who request the
   return of disks from the court. Since new strains of computer viruses
   are regularly created, the court subscribes to a virus detection update
   service which allows us to detect the most recent computer viruses. All
   computer users are strongly urged to ensure that safeguards exist in
   their offices to detect and eradicate current and future computer
   viruses. You should also be aware that whatever virus detection
   software you use, must be updated regularly because old software will
   not detect new viruses. Submission of a computer disk with a virus will
   be subject to appropriate court action. NOTE: Any procedural or systems
   based questions with regard to these instructions can be directed to
   our systems staff at 528-4477, ext. 40, 49.
