http://www.puget-sound.med.va.gov/american/american.htm

      Text Only Version Home  |  Search  |  Site Map  |  Visitor Center

                                 [logo.gif]

                                American Lake


                              [american02.jpg]

                              Directions

                              Map

                              Parking

                              Weather



   home  >  American Lake

                                                        [americanlake.gif]

   The American Lake campus began in 1923 as the 94th Veterans Hospital to
   be built by the War Department for the provision of care to World War I
   veterans. The Secretary of the Army authorized, under a revocable
   license, the Veteran Bureau's use of 377 acres of the 87,000 acre Fort
   Lewis property. The Hurley-Mason Company was awarded contracts for the
   construction of the facility and work was soon started on Veterans
   Hospital Number 94.

   A site chosen on the western shores of American Lake soon became home
   for the new buildings of Spanish American architecture. Many of the
   stucco and terra cotta buildings are listed on the National Register of
   Historical Buildings, and are still enjoyed by both patients and staff
   for their esthetic beauty.

   The medical center was dedicated in 1924, and chartered with a single
   mission - neuro-psychiatric treatment. On March 15, 1924, the first 50
   patients were admitted to the hospital, by transfer, from Western State
   Hospital at Fort Steilacoom.

   Over the years, American Lake grew from its original mission of a
   neuro-psychiatric facility, to a multi-care facility. In the 1960's and
   1970's Ambulatory Surgical Services, a 76-bed Nursing Home Unit, Blind
   Rehabilitation Services, a Substance Abuse Treatment Program, and a
   60-bed homeless Domiciliary were added to expand the scope of care to
   veterans.

   In the 1980's and 1990's, additional special programs such as
   Vocational Rehabilitation, a Residential Care Program, and a Post
   Traumatic Stress Treatment Program were added. In 1998, Building 81 was
   renovated and an addition added that allowed for relocation and
   expansion of Primary Care Services and a Women's health clinic.

   Active Research investigations include endocrinology, oncology, aging,
   mineral metabolism, and Alzheimer's disease. American Lake's
   affiliation with the University of Washington began in 1981. The
   division has a fully accredited Geriatric Fellowship Program and active
   residency programs exist in Optometry and Podiatry.

    This page last updated on 06/18/2001 .
    If you have difficulty accessing any material on this website, please
    contact us in writing or via telephone and we will work with you to
    make the information available.
    Contact Us |  Comments and Suggestions   |  Copyright  |  Disclaimer
    |  E-Mail This Link To A Friend  |  Privacy Statement
    VA National Web Site  |  VISN 20
