http://procure.psc.gov/acquisition/impacinf/impacinf.html

   Program Support Center - We Are Solutions - top menu bar with links
   Program Support Center sidebar with links [clearpixel.gif]

                           Credit Card Information

   Internal Procedures for the International Merchant Purchase
   Authorization Card
   (I.M.P.A.C.)


   "For a QUICK and ECONOMICAL way to accomplish purchases under $2,500,
   the International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card (I.M.P.A.C.) may
   be the way to go!"


   You can use the purchase card to accomplish almost all of your
   purchases under $2,500. The purchasing rules are greatly simplified and
   only minimal training is required. Training is available on CD-ROM
   which can be purchased from GSA for only $10.00.

   Look over these Internal Procedures for using the purchase card. If you
   would like to apply for a card, fill out and print the
   "Request for I.M.P.A.C. Purchase Card" form and send it to the Division
   of Acquisition Management, Room 5C-18, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers
   Lane, Rockville, MD 20857.

   If you have any questions after reviewing the Internal Procedures, you
   may call Ruth Crown, Les Blazey, or Sheri Kretschmaier on (301)
   443-6557.


   Contents:

   Purpose
   Background
   Introduction
   Definitions
   How to Get An I.M.P.A.C.
   Spending Limits
   How to Use the Bankcard
   When the I.M.P.A.C. May Not Be Used
   Cardholder Procedures After Purchase
   Approving Official Procedures
   Questioned Items and Disputes
   Administrative Changes in Cardholder Status
   Division of Fiscal Operations (DFO) Procedures
   DAM Audit/Review Procedures

   Attachments:

   Terms and Conditions For Use of BankCard
   "Request For Purchase Card" Form Officials
   PSC Restricted/Unauthorized Purchases List
   Record of Credit Card Orders
   Statement of Account (SOA)
   I.M.P.A.C. Program Notification of Invoice Adjustment
   Cardholder Statement of Questioned Item Explanation

   _____________________________________________________________



     PURPOSE
       These operational instructions are intended to provide guidance in
       the use of commercial purchase cards to pay for purchases made
       using the International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card
       (I.M.P.A.C.). This unique card is a VISA card issued by USBank. The
       purpose of the I.M.P.A.C. is to reduce procurement lead time and
       the cost of processing purchase orders and imprest fund
       transactions. I.M.P.A.C is the preferred instrument for all
       purchases of $2,500 or less. All purchases made using the card must
       comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Health and
       Human Services Acquisition Regulations (HHSAR), and Program Support
       Center (PSC) policy and procedures.

    1. BACKGROUND
       The Federal Government uses various methods to accommodate the
       purchase of necessary supplies and services. Traditional Government
       purchasing has been administratively cumbersome and costly. Often
       times, merchants do not want to deal with the Government because of
       the paperwork involved and the length of time for payment. The
       Government-wide commercial purchase card program is designed to
       meet the following objectives: (1) within existing Federal
       Acquisition Regulations, streamline payment procedures and reduce
       paperwork and administrative costs for the acquisition of supplies
       and services in the amount of $100,000 or less; (2) improve cash
       management practices such as forecasting, consolidating payments
       and reducing imprest funds; and, (3) provide procedural checks and
       feedback to improve management control and decision making.
       The BankCard is an additional simplified acquisition tool, and as
       such, is subject to all simplified acquisition provisions
       established in the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Health and
       Human Services Acquisition Regulations, and PSC implementations.
       The Principal Official Responsible for Acquisition has direct
       overall responsibility for the Government commercial purchase card
       service program. The Agency Program Coordinator (APC) serves as the
       liaison between cardholders and the contractor, as well as between
       PSC and USBank.

    2. INTRODUCTION
       The BankCard has been uniquely designed so that it will not be
       confused with your personal credit cards. The card bears the Great
       Seal of the United States and has the unique and legally protected
       name I.M.P.A.C. along with the "United States of America" and "Tax
       Exempt" printed on the face of the card. The card has the
       cardholder's name embossed on it and in accordance with VISA
       International regulations can only be used by the cardholder. No
       member of the cardholder's staff, the cardholder's supervisor or
       anyone else may use this card.
       The cardholder is responsible for the security of the I.M.P.A.C.
       and is personally liable for its misuse. Cardholders should take
       precautions to prevent others from gaining access to their card and
       should not give out their card number except when placing
       oral/telephone orders, since this could lead to misuse and personal
       liability. It is recommended that the BankCard be kept in a locked
       cabinet when not in use. If the BankCard is lost the cardholder
       must notify USBank immediately to cancel the card. The USBank Card
       Services telephone number is 1-800-227-6736 and is open 24 hours a
       day, 7 days a week. PSC will not be liable for any unauthorized use
       of the BankCard, however, the cardholder may be held
       administratively accountable to PSC if the loss is not reported
       timely. The call to USBank must be followed up with a formal
       written notice. Immediate notification minimizes the potential
       liability for both the Government and USBank. The approving
       official must make a written report to DAM within five working
       days, that will include:
                      1.  the card number;
                      2.  the cardholder's complete name;
                      3.  the date and location of the loss;
                      4.  if stolen, date reported to police;
                      5.  date and time USBank notified;
                      6.  any purchase(s) made on the day the card was
       lost/stolen; and
                      7.  any other pertinent information.
       A new card will be mailed within two business days of the reported
       loss or theft. A card that is subsequently found by the cardholder
       after being reported lost or stolen shall be cut in half and
       disposed of.
       The cardholder will sign a statement that he/she fully understand
       all policies and procedures regarding card usage prior to receiving
       a BankCard (See Attachment #1).
       Cardholders will not receive any purchase card applications or
       forms from USBank. In addition, the Government is the payor and is
       ultimately the insurer under the contract between GSA and USBank.
       There will not be any credit check on the cardholder's personal
       accounts regarding this card.
       The BankCard is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY! No personal purchases are
       allowed. Intentional use of the BankCard for unauthorized purposes
       will be considered as an attempt to commit fraud against the U.S.
       Government and will result in immediate cancellation of the
       Delegation of Authority. Disciplinary action (as set forth in the
       "Standards of Ethical Conduct For Employees of the Executive
       Branch") and possibly criminal action can be taken against the
       cardholder. Disciplinary actions which may be considered are:
                      1.  Admonishment
                      2.  Written Reprimand
                      3.  Reassignment
                      4.  Suspension
                      5.  Demotion
                      6.  Removal
       The penalties for fraudulent use of the BankCard include a fine of
       not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years
       or both, under 18 U.S.C. 287. If anyone suspects intentional misuse
       of a BankCard, they must immediately notify the Office of the
       Inspector General, the approving official, DFO and DAM.
       If personal purchases are made, the employee will be billed the
       full cost of the purchases plus interest and administrative debt
       collection fees authorized by the Debt Collection Act. The
       Government will take all actions necessary to collect the debt
       including, if necessary, salary offset.
       Having a BankCard does not relieve the cardholder from following
       all Federal, Departmental, and Agency requirements, including those
       specified herein. It is anticipated there will be instances where a
       cardholder might mistakenly purchase a service or supply that is
       included on the Restricted/Unauthorized Purchases List. If the APC
       finds that the error by the cardholder was made in good faith, she
       will recommend that the Principal Official Responsible for
       Acquisition (PORA) ratify that acquisition and the cardholder would
       not be subject to disciplinary actions.

    3. DEFINITIONS

          Agency Program Coordinator (APC): This individual serves as the
            liaison between cardholders and the contractor. The APC
            oversees the I.M.P.A.C. program and establishes guidelines.
            Changes to dollar limitations or authorization of merchant
            codes must be approved by the APC. The APC is:
            Ruth S. Crown
            Division of Acquisition Management, AOS/PSC
            Room 5C-18, Parklawn Building
            5600 Fishers Lane
            Rockville, Maryland 20857
            Telephone: (301) 443-6557

         A. Approving Official: The approving official reviews the
            cardholder's monthly statement and serves as liaison to the
            APC. The approving official is responsible for obtaining and
            controlling the purchase cards of all individuals under their
            authority. The approving official has authority to request,
            through the APC, cancellation of cards at any time. The
            approving official must be the cardholder's supervisor or a
            higher level official. A cardholder cannot be his/her own
            approving official and cannot be an approving official for
            his/her supervisor.

         B. Authorization Code: An entry in the CARE computer which sets
            limits on the types of purchases a cardholder can make. Codes
            are currently in effect for Merchant Category, Monthly
            Cardholder Limit, Monthly Office Limit and Single Purchase
            Limit.

         C. Cardholder: The individual to whom the card is issued. The
            card is embossed with the cardholder's name and may only be
            used by this individual.

         D. Delegation of Authority: A document, issued by the Division of
            Acquisition Management (DAM), that establishes an individual
            as an authorized cardholder. This delegation of authority
            specifies spending and usage limitations unique to that
            cardholder.

         E. Dispute Office Contact: This individual coordinates, processes
            and monitors all disputed purchases, credits or billing
            errors. The Dispute Office contact for PSC is:
            Leslie Blazey
            Division of Acquisition Management, AOS/PSC
            Room 5C-18, Parklawn Building
            5600 Fishers Lane
            Rockville, Maryland 20857
            Telephone: (301) 443-6557

         F. Financial Management Office Contact: The Division of Fiscal
            Operations (DFO), Program Support Center, will make payment
            for the certified monthly Statement of Accounts (SOA). The DFO
            contact is:
            Leon F. Jackson Jr.
            Division of Fiscal Operations, FMS/PSC
            Room 16-23, Parklawn Building
            5600 Fishers Lane
            Rockville, Maryland 20857
            Telephone: (301) 443-3020

         G. I.M.P.A.C.: The official name of the Government-wide purchase
            card is I.M.P.A.C. (BankCard), which stands for "International
            Merchant Purchase Authorization Card." These initials are
            imprinted on all cards and will also appear on forms provided
            by RMBCS.

         H. Monthly Purchase Limit: The spending limit imposed on a
            cardholder's cumulative purchases in a given monthly cycle.
            The monthly cycle begins on the 6th of the month and end on
            the 5th of the next month.

         I. Monthly Office Limit: The monthly office limit is established
            as a sum of all cardholders monthly purchase limits under a
            given approving official.

         J. Oral Procedure: A procedure used when an order is placed or a
            purchase is made through an oral agreement, either in person
            or by telephone. No written purchase order or contract is
            issued by the Government.

         K. Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA): The HCA is located in
            the Division of Acquisition Management, Administrative
            Operations Service (AOS) and has direct overal responsibility
            for the PSC Government commercial purchase card service
            program. The HCA is:
            Christie A. Goodman
            Director, Division of Acquisition Management, AOS/PSC
            Room 5C-18, Parklawn Building
            5600 Fishers Lane
            Rockville, Maryland 20857
            Telephone: (301) 443-6557

         L. USBank: USBanks is contractor which will maintain all
            I.M.P.A.C. accounts. USBanks will issue cards to cardholders
            and send out monthly statements to cardholders, approving
            officials, and DFO. USBanks will pay merchants in a timely
            manner and receive reimbursement from DFO.

         M. Single Purchase Limit: The single purchase limit is the
            maximum dollar amount of a single transaction made by the
            cardholder. This limit cannot be exceeded unless the APC
            approves and requests a limit increase from RMBCS. A "single
            purchase" may include multiple items, however, no single
            purchase may exceed the authorized single purchase limit
            established for each cardholder.

         N. Statement of Account (SOA): The Statement of Account is a
            monthly listing of all purchases made by the cardholder and
            credits issued by merchants.

         O. Unauthorized Use: The BankCard is used by a cardholder for a
            personal purchase, a purchase of supplies or services which
            the cardholder had no authority to make, or is used by a
            person other than the cardholder.

    4. HOW TO GET AN I.M.P.A.C.

         A. To apply for a delegation of authority and purchase card, a
            "Request for Purchase Card" form (Attachment #2) must be
            completed and forwarded to the APC. The request includes the
            dollar limitations requested for single purchase limits
            (typically a single purchase limit of between $500 and $2,500
            for each cardholder) and monthly purchase limits.

         B. All individuals designated as a cardholder or approving
            official must attend a training course (usually one day) or
            review of the purchase card CD-ROM before being issued a
            credit card. The CD-ROM can be purchased from the GSA Customer
            Supply Center for $10.00.

    5. SPENDING LIMITS

          Single Purchase Limit - This is the maximum dollar amount which
            a cardholder can spend in a single transaction. The single
            purchase limit for most cardholders will be set at $2,500 or
            less. The specific dollar amount will be determined by DAM and
            specified in the Delegation of Authority letter. Neither
            cardholders nor merchants are allowed to avoid exceeding the
            single purchase limit. For example, if your single purchase
            limit is $100 and you are trying to purchase an item for $150,
            you cannot split the transactions into one $100 and one $50
            purchase.
            NOTE: For individuals in the 1102 series, the single purchase
            limit will be set at $100,000 or less. All purchases that
            exceed your BankCard's limit must be purchased using other
            simplified acquisition methods, e.g., purchase orders or calls
            against blanket purchase agreements.

         A. Monthly Purchase Limit - The spending limit imposed on a
            cardholder's cumulative purchases in a given monthly cycle
            (the 5th of the month). The monthly purchase limit for each
            cardholder is established by the approving official based on
            budget considerations and is established at the time the
            cardholder account is set up.

         B. Monthly Office Limit - The monthly office limit is the
            cumulative total of all cardholders monthly purchase limits
            under a given approving official. The monthly office limit
            should be consistent with the operating budget for the
            organization. The approving official must monitor purchases to
            assure that the monthly office limit is not exceeded.
            On occasion, it may be necessary to raise or lower the
            cardholder's 30-day or single purchase limits or the approving
            official's office limit. The approving official should request
            changes in writing to the APC who will contact the contractor
            to make changes to the spending limit. One time emergency
            increases of single purchase limits are rarely granted. If
            required, a new delegation of procurement authority must be
            issued to reflect the increased authorization.

    6. HOW TO USE THE BANKCARD

         A. There is a statutory requirement to acquire supplies and
            services from or through Government Supply Sources when
            available. These sources include AOS inventories, excess
            personal property from other agencies, the Federal Prison
            Industries, Inc., the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped
            workshops, and mandatory General Services Administration (GSA)
            Schedules and Catalogs. Before going to a commercial source,
            you must first determine whether the supplies or services
            needed are available from an established source of supply and
            whether the use of that source is required in the given
            circumstance.

         B. Previous requirements to purchase exclusively from small
            businesses and to justify any deviation from that policy have
            been superseded by PL 103-355, the Federal Acquisition
            Streamlining Act of 1994 (FASA). Pursuant to FASA, price
            reasonableness, not the size of the business concern, is the
            determining factor for purchases less than $2,500 (called
            "micropurchases"). All micropurchases, whether effected by
            purchase card or other acquisition mechanism, must be rotated
            among qualified suppliers of that supply or service.

         C. Purchases under $2,500 may be made without securing
            competitive quotations if the prices are considered
            "reasonable."
            "Price Reasonableness": FAR 13.603(b) cites two instances when
            action must be taken to verify price reasonableness of
            purchases less than $2,500:

         1. The cardholder suspects or has information to indicate the
            price may not be reasonable or
         2. when purchasing an item for which no comparable pricing
            information is available. The purchase log must contain an
            explanation of how price reasonableness was determined in
            those instances.

    7. Pursuant to FASA, the Buy American Act does not apply to purchases
       less than $2,500. The Buy American Act (FAR Part 25) generally
       requires that only domestic end products be acquired unless:


    1. the products or materials are for use outside the United States;
    2. the cost is unreasonable as determined in accordance with FAR
       25.105;
    3. the agency head determines that domestic preferences would be
       inconsistent with the public's interest; or
    4. the products or materials are not mined, produced, or manufactured
       in the United States in sufficient commercial quantities or of a
       satisfactory quality.


     The BankCard should be utilized for purchases of supplies and
   services, as authorized in this procedure. Exceptions to use of the
   BankCard should be principally limited to:

    1. Merchants who do not accept VISA cards.
    2. Merchants who provide a discount for using cash.
    3. Other situations in which the cardholder believes the Government's
       best interests will be served by purchasing via an alternative
       method.


     When the BankCard is issued to an employee, authorization codes are
   established by the APC and incorporated in the card. Many merchants now
   use electronic authorization methods allowing them to obtain
   authorization on all purchases regardless of amount. When the merchant
   contacts RMBCS for authorization, RMBCS will check the computer to
   ensure that the merchant category is acceptable and that none of the
   limits will be exceeded.


     Cardholders are responsible for checking availability of funds before
   making purchases.


     Any time a purchase is made, whether it is done over the counter or
   by telephone, a monthly cumulative purchase log (Record of Credit Card
   Orders, Attachment #5), must be annotated and retained in a the
   purchase file. Each cardholder must set up a purchase file for all
   proof of purchase documents associated with purchase card orders. The
   log must record, for each purchase, the date of purchase, name of
   business, description of purchase and for whom the purchase was made,
   CAN, Object Classification Codes, quantity and price. When a purchase
   is made over the counter, the cardholder must also obtain a customer
   copy of the charge slip. NOTE: The cardholder should make sure that all
   carbons are destroyed when purchases are made over the counter. Any
   documents associated with the order should also be maintained in the
   purchase file. All documentation should be used to match the purchases
   with the monthly SOA. approving officials may require that cardholders
   submit this documentation (charge slips, documentation log, and
   receiving documents) to them along with the SOA.


     Oral procedures may be used to acquire supplies or services that can
   be described in sufficient detail so that the parties to the agreement
   have a clear understanding of what is being acquired; PROVIDED that a
   purchase order is not required by either the supplier or the
   Government. Telephone orders must be for standard commercial items or
   be for the type of item which can be adequately described over the
   phone. Acquisitions which require lengthy or detailed descriptions
   (such as many services) or extensive lists of requirements,
   acquisitions with written specifications, or those which are difficult
   to purchase over the phone should be avoided.

    1. When placing a telephone order the cardholder will:


    a. Confirm that the vendor will accept the VISA card.
    b. Confirm that delivery can be made directly to the ordering office.
    c. Confirm that the vendor agrees to charge the purchase card no
       sooner than the time when shipment is made so that receipt of
       supplies may be certified on the monthly SOA. When a cardholder
       places an order by telephone he/she should attempt to confirm with
       the vendor that all items purchased will be delivered by the
       merchant before the 5th day of the upcoming month or the merchant
       will delay billing until the goods are shipped. The purpose of this
       rule is to assure that, to the maximum extent practicable, all
       items that appear on the monthly statement of account have been
       received so that they can be certified for payment. If the vendor
       cannot guarantee delivery within the billing cycle period, the
       cardholder may still place the order. However, to the extent that
       delivery and billing fall within separate cycles it will make it
       more difficult for the cardholder to reconcile the monthly SOA.
    d. Inform the vendor that the purchase is for OFFICIAL U.S. GOVERNMENT
       BUSINESS and therefore the purchase is NOT subject to state or
       local taxes.
    e. Instruct the vendor to include the following information on the
       shipping document or packing slip:

    i. Cardholder name and office or correspondence symbol, if used;
   ii. Appropriate delivery address and cardholder telephone number.
       Note: Direct the vendor not to put the purchase card number on the
       shipping label.


     Telephone orders will normally require that the cardholder provide
   his/her BankCard number and its expiration date.


     When telephone orders are placed for pickup at a merchant's facility,
   the cardholder may designate a staff member to pick up the supply
   orders (secretary, administrative aide, etc.). If someone other than
   the cardholder picks up the order and is required to sign a BankCard
   receipt, the individual should sign as having received the items (i.e.,
   received by ______). Verification of the pickup is made by the
   cardholder when the monthly statement of account is certified and by
   keeping the receipt in the purchase file.


     When making any purchase, either over the counter or by telephone,
   the cardholder should always advise the merchant that the charge is tax
   exempt. When a vendor will not grant a tax exemption without a
   certificate, RMBCS Card Services should be contacted. RMBCS will verify
   the tax exempt status of the card and note to the merchant that a state
   tax exemption certificate is on file. If the cardholder is asked for a
   tax exempt number, he/she should give the first eight digits of your
   credit card number. Always check the figures on the charge slip before
   signing. Make sure the calculations are correct and make sure there has
   been no sales tax added to the purchase. If the cardholder is charged a
   sales tax and does not notice it at the time of the purchase, the
   cardholder should contact the merchant as soon as possible to get a
   credit issued for the tax amount charged.


     Some merchants currently do not take BankCards and occasionally a
   merchant will attempt to charge a premium for use of the card.

    1. If the merchant is not registered (does not accept VISA) the
       cardholder cannot utilize the BankCard for the purchase. Most
       businesses are willing to become VISA merchants when they become
       aware that the Government is now making purchases by purchase card
       and that the merchant can obtain immediate payment instead of
       having to wait 30 days for payment under the Prompt Payment Act. If
       the merchant is interested they should contact their local
       financial institution to become a registered merchant.

    2. If a registered merchant accepts VISA but attempts to impose a
       "premium" or additional charge on the purchase you should remind
       them that premiums or surcharges are prohibited by VISA
       regulations. If the merchant still requires a premium for using the
       card, the cardholder may not use the BankCard to effect that
       transaction.

    3. Any pre-purchase approvals required in simplified acquisitions must
       still be included in the purchase file. Offices currently using
       purchase orders, Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs) or imprest
       funds to acquire services or supplies needed in the day-to-day
       operation of the organization are encouraged to purchase these
       items using the BankCard.

    4. As authorized, subscriptions may be ordered by BankCard and payment
       authorized even though the subscription is not received prior to
       billing. Multiple year subscriptions (up to three years) may be
       ordered if the savings to the Government is a consideration for
       more than 1-year subscriptions.


     The ordering office that uses the BankCard is responsible for
   performing the "receiving" function for the supplies and services
   ordered. If the shipping destination is different from that of the
   ordering office location, an official in the destination office must
   acknowledge receipt and notify the ordering office. Cardholders should
   not direct that supplies be shipped to an AOS warehouse unless it is
   the only practicable destination.


     Purchases made over the counter generally should be immediately
   available. However, if the item is not available that same day, the
   cardholder may still purchase that item if it is in the best interests
   of the Government to acquire the desired item at a preferred price that
   might not be available later, e.g., a "rain check" will be provided on
   a sale item. Be aware, however, that if the item is not available until
   the next 30-day billing cycle has commenced, it may make reconciliation
   of the cardholder's SOA more difficult.


     WHEN THE I.M.P.A.C. MAY NOT BE USED

    A. A cardholder must not purchase anything that violates any
       requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Health and
       Human Services Acquisition Regulations, PSC requirements or this
       instruction. As previously stated, Attachment #4 provides examples
       of items that may not be purchased with the BankCard.

    B. Use of the BankCard for purchases of the rental or lease of land or
       buildings, purchase of telephone services, and cash advances are
       strictly prohibited.


     CARDHOLDER PROCEDURES AFTER PURCHASE

    A. USBanks will provide and distribute a SOA directly to the
       cardholder within five working days after the end of the 30-day
       billing cycle. This document covers all purchases, credits and
       other transaction data that the cardholder has made in the 30-day
       billing cycle. An example of an SOA is included in Attachment #5.

    B. Upon receipt of the SOA, the cardholder must:


    1. Review the SOA for accuracy, complete in accordance with Item (2)
       below, and sign the SOA certifying its accuracy;

    2. The cardholder must document certain information on the statement,
       attach all supporting documentation, such as, charge slips, credit
       slips, packing slips, "Cardholder's Statement of Questioned Items"
       form (See Attachment #8), and purchase log, for each transaction
       and forward the signed statement to the approving official.
       Approving officials have discretion as to how much supporting
       documentation must actually be forwarded to them by the cardholders
       that they supervise. If for some reason the cardholder does not
       have documentation of the transaction to send with the statement,
       he/she must attach an explanation that includes a description of
       the item, date of purchase, merchant's name and why there is no
       supporting documentation. Information to be entered on the front of
       the statement under each item purchased includes the description of
       the item or the corresponding Line Item Number from the purchase
       log, the Common Accounting Number (CAN) (if other than the default
       CAN # printed at the top of the SOA) and the Object Classification
       Code.
       DFO will require each Approving Official to provide a default CAN
       and Object Class Code to be charged if the SOA and supporting
       documents are not received within 14 calendar days of the date
       shown on the statement. Charges will be posted to the default CAN
       and Object Class Code if the statements are not received in DFO or
       if the statements are received but do not indicate a CAN and Object
       Class Code and do not have this data on the supporting documents.
       Once an item is charged to the default CAN, DFO will not change the
       charge. The Approving Official will be fully responsible for
       transferring the charge to the appropriate CAN and Object Class
       Code.

    3. It is important that the cardholder check each purchase on the
       statement to verify its accuracy. If a sales tax appears on the SOA
       and he/she has been issued a credit slip from the merchant
       indicating that the tax was credited, but the credit does not
       appear on the SOA, he/she must line through the item on the SOA in
       RED and enter the correct amount to be paid excluding the tax.
       Annotate the explanation on the back of the SOA, fill out a
       "Cardholder's Statement of Questioned Item" form and attach a copy
       of the credit slip. The original form with attachment must be
       mailed immediately to RMBCS. A copy must be forwarded to the
       approving official with your SOA and a copy maintained in the
       purchase file. If, however, the tax charge appears on the SOA and
       the cardholder has not yet received a credit slip, he/she cannot
       dispute the tax on the SOA and it must be paid (Do NOT submit a
       "Cardholder's Statement of Questioned Item" form). When a credit
       slip is received and the credit appears on the next SOA, he/she
       must annotate on the reverse side of the SOA that the credit was
       for a tax charge paid on previous SOA.

    4. When there is a charge on the cardholders SOA (other than tax) that
       is disputed, the cardholder must line through that item in RED and
       enter the correct amount to be paid. Also, on the back of the SOA,
       above the signature blocks, he/she needs to provide an explanation.
       The cardholder must then complete a "Cardholder's Statement of
       Questioned Item" form. A copy must be forwarded to the approving
       official along with the SOA and a copy maintained in your purchase
       file. If credits (other than for tax) for previously disputed items
       are not on the statement, the customer copy of the sales slip
       should be retained until the transaction appears on the next
       statement of account. If these credits do not appear within the
       next statement, the cardholder will annotate on the statement
       credits not received and attach a copy of the credit slip. If a
       credit has been obtained by the cardholder but only the charge
       shows up on the current "Statement of Account", the cardholder
       should note on the statement that a credit was obtained on a
       specific date. DFO will establish a pending file, track the pending
       credit, and take action to assure it is received but this does not
       relieve the cardholder, who has the primary responsibility to
       assure the credit is obtained. If for any reason the cardholder
       does not have a customer copy of the sales slip to attach to the
       monthly statement, he or she shall mark the "Date of Purchase"
       column with the word "lost" and attach a written explanation, along
       with the purchase log.

    5. The cardholder must summarize his/her total monthly charges by CAN
       # and Object Classification Code at the bottom of the SOA as
       follows:


                         CAN #
                                  Obj. Class
                                            $ Amt.
                         4921 0001
                                  25.9Y
                                            $123.00
                         4921 0001
                                  26.6L
                                            $114.00
                         4021 0002
                                  26.6L
                                            $ 26.19


                                  Total
                                            $263.19

       The summarized total must match the total on the SOA after any
       required adjustments have been made to any charges and
       administrative fee. DFO will summarize the items on the statement
       by CAN and Object Classification Code into single items. For
       example, if there are two purchases on the statement with the same
       CAN and Object Classification Code, add the totals and obligate
       this as one item. If there are two purchases with the same CAN but
       two different Object Classification Codes, each one will be
       obligated as a separate item. The same is true if you have two
       purchases with the same Object Classification Code but different
       CAN's.

    6. It is imperative that SOAs be submitted timely to permit recording
       of I.M.P.A.C. transactions in the Financial Accounting System. The
       cardholder should sign and forward the original SOA with supporting
       documentation to the approving official within five working days of
       receipt.


     If the cardholder will be absent from his/her office for more than
   five days after the SOA is received or otherwise will not be available
   to sign the SOA, the SOA must be forwarded to the approving official
   who will note the absence and sign the SOA and forward it to DFO. Upon
   the cardholder's return he/she must sign a copy of the SOA and forward
   it to DFO, through the approving official. (See Section 10 for
   Approving Official procedures.)


     After signing the SOA and Record of Credit Card Order Log, approving
   officials will return a signed copy along with back-up documentation to
   the cardholder to be maintained as part of their monthly purchase file.
   The cardholder's BankCard purchase files will be retained in the active
   files for a period of one year. Failure to maintain proper accountable
   documentation will result in revocation of a card.


     APPROVING OFFICIAL PROCEDURES

    A. The approving official is an individual who has under his/her
       purview one or more cardholders. The approving official is
       responsible for the following:


    1. Reconciling monthly, each of his/her cardholder's statements and
       verify that all transactions were for necessary Government
       purchases and in accordance with FAR and agency regulations.

    2. Serving as liaison with DFO and the APC.

    3. Assisting the cardholder in resolving disputed payments and, as
       necessary, recommending to the APC that a cardholder's card be
       canceled.

    4. Assuring that all official purchase records are maintained by the
       cardholders.

    5. Provide formal written notice to the APC if a cardholder's card is
       lost or stolen.


     An Approving Official Report Summary is printed the 5th of every
   month and mailed to each approving official.

    1. The first portion is called the Master Account Summary Report. This
       report consists of the following


    a. The balance on the approving official's account from the previous
       month and the payment received. Since the reporting procedures were
       developed from commercial account processing procedures, the
       balance statement is merely an accounting procedure showing that
       the previous month's charges were paid.

    b. The total dollar amount charged by each cardholder reporting to the
       approving official identified on the cover sheet during the billing
       cycle and the total current balance (the total of all cardholder
       purchases processed during the month). This summary includes only
       active cardholders (those cardholders who have used their BankCard
       within the last 30 days).


     The second portion of the approving official report summary is called
   the Sub Account Detail Report. This report itemizes the transactions
   each cardholder made during the billing cycle, and includes listing of
   inactive cardholders during the month. The cardholder name, account
   number and 30-day limits are printed at the top of the page. Also
   included is a listing of the cardholder's transactions consisting of
   the purchase date, processing date, transaction reference number,
   merchant name, merchant billing location and amount of the transaction.
   The final line lists the total of that cardholder's transactions
   received during the billing cycle. Inactive cardholders will receive a
   zero listing.

    1. Approving officials must ensure that a SOA is received from every
       active cardholder listed on his/her monthly summary. Cardholders
       are required to complete and forward SOAs to the approving official
       within five working days of their receipt by the cardholder.

    2. If approving officials do not receive a SOA from every active
       cardholder listed on the summary within five working days of
       receipt of the summary, or have not been informed that the SOA will
       be late, he/she has the responsibility to follow up to promote
       timely submission to DFO.

    3. If the SOA cannot be signed timely by a cardholder due to extended
       leave or illness, the approving official should review the SOA and
       supporting documents, sign the SOA and forward it to DFO with an
       explanation of why the cardholder could not sign.

    4. Problems such as timeliness of receipt of the SOA, maintenance of
       the receipts associated with the SOA, lack of internal controls,
       and inappropriate purchases or documentation, should be brought to
       the attention of the cardholder's supervisor or the APC. If the
       problem persists, you may request that DAM take action to cancel
       the individual's BankCard.


     Approving officials must review each SOA for accuracy and
   completeness and compliance with the instructions. The Common
   Accounting Number (CAN) and Object Classification Code summary must be
   verified on each SOA. Approving officials are required to review each
   cardholder's purchase(s), note the merchant who made the sale and
   verify that these items were for official use. Approving officials must
   also determine if each purchase complies with other cardholder
   restrictions that may be applicable; e.g., PSC specific guidelines or
   individual cardholder restrictions. As noted earlier, approving
   officials may require that cardholders attach receipts, charge slips,
   documentation of purchase log, etc., to their SOA to verify that all
   supplies and services ordered have been received.


     Approving officials must ensure that any item placed in dispute by
   the cardholder is lined through in red ink, an explanation is provided
   on the reverse of the SOA and a "Statement of Questioned Item" has been
   completed. A copy of the "Statement of Questioned Item" must be
   attached to the SOA when forwarded to DFO. Disputes may involve charges
   for an item not ordered, not received or which shows incorrect charges.


     The approving official should verify the amounts and the numbers of
   cardholders reporting to him/her against the consolidated report. DAM
   and DFO will periodically audit/review these documents, even though the
   approving official has signed off on them.


     Approving officials are responsible for resolving cardholder
   questions on particular purchases and signing the completed statements.
   If for any reason the approving official questions a purchase(s) on a
   cardholder statement, the cardholder must explain to him/her the nature
   of the purchase. If the cardholder cannot substantiate that the
   purchase was necessary and for official use, then the cardholder must
   return the item(s) and provide a credit voucher for the full amount of
   the purchase(s). The approving official must report all incidents of
   improper use of the BankCard to the APC.


     Sign and forward the cardholder's statement of accounts along with
   the purchase log, and, if used, a copy of Cardholder's "Statement of
   Questioned Item" form to DFO by the fourteenth (14) calendar day after
   the date of the statements to the address provided below. All other
   supporting documentation (charge slips, credit slips, cash register
   receipts, etc.) should be returned to the cardholder to be maintained
   in their monthly purchase file. Each approving official must work with
   his/her cardholders to assure that this due date is met. The approving
   official is responsible for meeting this due date even if the
   cardholders are on leave or on travel status. If there are any
   discrepancies, DFO will contact the approving official and he or she is
   expected to deal with the cardholders to resolve any problems in a
   timely manner.


     It is imperative that SOAs be submitted to DFO by the fourteenth (14)
   calendar day after the date of the statement, to permit
   budgetary/financial reconciliation and payment under the Prompt Payment
   Act.


     QUESTIONED ITEMS AND DISPUTES

    A. Whenever an incorrect charge is received on a cardholder's SOA it
       must be lined through in RED INK and an explanation provided on the
       reverse of the form. The cardholder must immediately seek to
       resolve the problem with the RMBCS by completing a "Cardholder
       Statement of Questioned Item" form indicating the nature of the
       problem (i.e., taxes charged, wrong amount charged, etc.) and
       forward the original to address below. A copy of the "Cardholder
       Statement of Questioned Item" form will be attached to the SOA. A "
       Chargeback Manual" will be provided explaining cardholders' rights
       to dispute transactions, the time frames allowed by VISA
       regulations for processing such disputes, and the documentation
       required.
          I.M.P.A.C. Card Services
          P.O. Box 6346
          Fargo, North Dakota 58125-6346

    B. A copy of the "Cardholder Statement of Questioned Item" form will
       be forwarded to DFO with the SOA. DFO will deduct the disputed
       amount from the cardholder's SOA and add the required information
       to the contractor's "Notification of Invoice Adjustment" form. This
       form will then be sent to the contractor as supporting
       documentation for the amount paid by DFO.

    C. If cardholders have any questions regarding the information on the
       form, or if they have any problems regarding the reversal of a
       transaction, they should contact the APC. USBanks should be
       contacted only to report a LOST OR STOLEN card to verify tax exempt
       status or resolve a disputed/questioned item.

    D. If items purchased with the BankCard are found to be defective, or
       if services purchased are found to be unsatisfactory, the
       cardholder has the responsibility to obtain replacement or
       correction of the items. If the merchant refuses to replace or
       correct the faulty item, the purchase will be considered to be in
       dispute. Items in dispute are to be handled in the same manner as
       billing errors. The dispute or error should be reported on the
       cardholder's monthly SOA and a "Cardholder Statement of Questioned
       Item" form prepared. USBank will credit the transaction until the
       dispute is resolved.


     ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGES IN CARDHOLDER STATUS

    A. When a cardholder transfers, retires, or resigns, the cardholder
       must surrender the card to the approving official. The approving
       official will cut the card up and notify the APC.

    B. Cardholders who intend to retire or resign should cease using the
       BankCard 45 days prior to the effective date of their action. If a
       monthly SOA is received after the employee has transferred or is no
       longer employed, or for other reasons the SOA cannot be completed
       by the cardholder, their monthly SOA should be signed by the
       approving official and an explanation for the lack of the
       cardholders signature will be provided when the SOA is sent to DFO.

    C. When an approving official transfers, the monthly SOA shall be
       signed by the next highest approving official in the organization
       until a new approving official is entered into the USBank computer
       system.


     DIVISION OF FISCAL OPERATIONS (DFO) PROCEDURES

    A. DFO will receive a consolidated report of all balances for
       approving officials reporting to their office. The DFO report is
       considered the billing invoice. Payment is made to the USBank
       according to the Prompt Payment Act provisions for the amount due
       on the individual cardholders' statement(s) of transactions.

    B. Payment may be made in a variety of forms as determined by DFO. In
       whatever payment method is used, the 12-digit invoice number must
       accompany the payment to ensure that the payment is applied to the
       appropriate office's account. Should payment be made for an amount
       less than the total invoice amount, supporting documentation must
       be provided to USBanks with the payment. If the payment is made by
       an electronic means, this supporting documentation can be included
       in the electronic payment message. If the payment is made by an
       electronic means, the supporting documentation must be included in
       the electronic payment message.

    C. The "Notification of Invoice Adjustment" form (See Attachment #6)
       details the information that must be provided if any portion of an
       invoice is reduced and not paid. Reasons for non-payment may
       include the following:

          + Items in dispute
          + Credit from merchant pending

    D. Payments will be made to USBank in accordance with the Prompt
       Payment Act, which specifies that payment will be made 30 days
       after receipt of a proper invoice. All associated interest
       penalties are to be calculated from the due date to the date of the
       check/wire at the current allowable Government rate. The penalty
       should be included in the payment total for the invoice.

    E. DFO will retain a list of each cardholder and approving official.
       This information will be provided by DAM and used for auditing and
       will be provided to auditors and/or investigators as necessary.


     DAM AUDIT/REVIEW PROCEDURES
   The Division of Acquisition Management (DAM) will conduct two separate
   reviews of purchase card activities. DAM will conduct a monthly random
   review of data contained in the master Statement of Account (SOA) that
   is received from USBank. This review will be broad based and will
   concentrate on finding purchases which appear to be split in order to
   remain under dollar restrictions and those purchases from sources not
   usually used for standard office supplies or equipment. As a result of
   the monthly review, cardholders will be asked to submit copies of their
   documentation for their purchases to DAM for further review. The number
   of cardholders reviewed each month will depend on the information
   appearing in the SOA.
   A certain percentage of all DAM cardholders will be reviewed on-site
   each year. The Agency Program Coordinator (APC) will determine which
   sites will be reviewed during the year. All cardholders at each
   location to be reviewed will have their purchase card files for the
   previous 12 months reviewed by a DAM representative. The reviewer will
   check the Record of Credit Card Orders for each cardholder in the
   office and the supporting documentation for each month's purchases. The
   reviewer will also check to see that orders were properly received by
   the cardholder or designee, and the turn-around times for the
   cardholders processing of the monthly SOA. Approving officials will be
   given advanced written notice before a purchase card review is
   conducted.
   After each review, a written report will be given to each approving
   official. The report will describe the condition of the purchase card
   program in the the office reviewed and will make suggestions for
   changes in the way the purchase card is being used at that location.
   Copies of the report will also be give to the APC and the Director,
   Division of Acquisition Management, AOS. If corrective action is not
   taken by the approving official, the APC will institute the program
   corrections.
     [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   Other Related Links:

   Acquisition Home Page | Credit Card Information | Acquisition Lead
   Times
   Procurement Information Links | Services | Small Business Office
   Blanket Purchase Agreements | Fee Structure | Task Order Contracts |
   Solicitations

        Feel free to contact Christie Goodman, Director, Division of
         Acquisition Management on 443-6557 for further information

     PSC Home | Search | Site Map | HHS Directory | Contact Us | Privacy
                                   Notice
    Accessibility | About PSC | Products and Services | Job Opportunities
