http://www.training.cahwnet.gov/metatag/default.asp


                    Welcome to California California Home





                          Training Center Home
                          Contact us
                          Overview
                          Registration Information
                          Training Schedule
                          Certificate Programs
                          HIPAA Training
                          Meta Tag Workshop
                          IT Managers Academy
                          Room Rental Policy
                          Nationwide PC Training
                          (LearningPASS Program)
                          DPA - TCID Training
                          What's New
                          HHSDC Home Page



   HHSDC Training Center



    __________ search
           (*)   My CA


   Meta Tag Workshop

                                                   Other Available Formats
                                                                Word / PDF

                         Meta Tag Workshops at HHSDC

                           'cookbook for success'

   The HHSDC Training Center, in partnership with the Department of
   Information Technology, is pleased to announce the commencement of Meta
   Tag Workshops for government agencies who wish to make available
   categorized information and documents for the California Portal or
   their own website. DOIT highly recommends participation in these
   workshops.

   Verity, Inc., Professional Services will conduct the workshops.

   Who should attend?
   Content managers, web administrators, content publishers, and
   department managers.

   What is the benefit of attending a 'cookbook for success' workshop?
   The workshops are intended to assist participants in the development of
   document Meta tags. The workshop provides an overview of how certain
   data within a document (meta tags) assist Internet search engines. The
   overview includes several examples of properly tagged documents.

   The instructor works with the participants to understand the
   participants' document repository. This is accomplished through an
   interactive interview process to allow the instructor to evaluate the
   participants' current document set and understand how the participants'
   clients or customers are accessing these documents.

   After the interactive interview process with the participant, the
   instructor will provide the participant with a set of relevant Meta
   tags, including a structured outline of procedures to start the process
   of tagging documents, and Word and .pdf macros for inputting meta tags
   to help facilitate the process.

   The workshops are designed to be flexible and customized based on each
   participant's individual needs.

   Where will the workshops take place?
   Workshops are held at the HHSDC Training Center, but may be scheduled
   at your location by request if you have suitable classroom facilities.

   How long are the workshops? The workshop is a one-day session, but
   departments may require additional days depending on a combination of
   factors:
     * the number of people you need to train
     * the numbers of different lines of business which need
       representation in the workshops
     * the numbers of documents you need analyzed

   We will work with you to determine the best solution.

   How are the workshops conducted?
   Sample outline of a typical 1- day workshop. Time allotted to each
   section may vary depending on the level and quickness of understanding,
   and the interaction from the participants as well as the complexity of
   the content supplied:
    1. A two hour overview of search technology and how data content
       relates to search
    2. A two hour interview of the participants' business needs and their
       current document types
    3. A four-hour analysis of the documents and plan to improve content
       for the future. This includes a plan to address any current
       content.
    4. If the workshop extends beyond 1 day, any subsequent days will be
       devoted entirely to document analysis and content planning.

   How much will the workshops cost?
   The workshop fee is $3272 per day for up to 12 attendees and a total of
   15 documents. Your cost depends on the number of documents/days you may
   need to schedule. The total cost of a workshop is charged to each
   department purchasing a dedicated workshop, or prorated among
   organizations attending a combined workshop. Individual student costs
   per day are $409 per person.

   How do I schedule a workshop?
   To schedule a workshop, please contact Susie Shoemaker at the HHSDC
   Training Center, (916) 739-7944, or via e-mail to
   sshoema1@hhsdc.ca.gov.

   Workshops can be scheduled two different ways:

   Dedicated workshops - Dedicated workshops only have attendees from one
        department, or line of business within a department. A maximum of
       12 attendees may attend per day. Up to 15 documents can be analyzed
            the first day and up to 30 documents each day thereafter.
       Combined workshops - Departments with small groups of people and/or
       small numbers of documents (less than 10) may be combined into one
        workshop to achieve maximum cost-effectiveness while learning the
        necessary skills to tag their organization's documents. Up to 12
                        participants per day is allowed.

                      What do we bring to the workshop?
       Participants should bring representative copies of each type of
      document in your department's repository. Bring documents in both
     hardcopy and electronic format such as MS Office, pdf, HTML, or any
    other common PC file formats. As stated above, up to 15 documents can
        be analyzed on the first day and up to 30 documents each day
                                 thereafter.
    The HHSDC Training Center is located at 9323 Tech Center Drive, Suite
   100, in Sacramento Tech Center Drive is located one block south of the
     intersection of Folsom Blvd. and Mayhew Road, between Bradshaw and
                Watt. Plenty of free parking is available.

   Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
