http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=6

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   The northeast region of Washington is still unspoiled, with vast tracts
   of coniferous forest and dense mountain terrain. But easy access to
   culture, as well as wilderness, is attracting ever-increasing numbers
   of visitors and transplants who discover this areas combination of
   natural beauty and understated sophistication.

   The regions major city, Spokane, remains wonderfully picturesque,
   despite having grown to almost half a million people. Just a 45-minute
   flight from Puget Sound, it is the largest city between Seattle and
   Minneapolis. The raw power of Spokane Falls roars right in the middle
   of downtown, in harmony with the world-class Spokane Symphony just a
   short walk upstream through splendid Riverfront Park. Nowhere else in
   the world is such a large waterfall part of the urban landscape.

   If you want to escape to the backcountry, where humans are only guests,
   the emerald stands of Colville National Forest comprise an amazing 1.1
   million acres of protected Ponderosa Pine Country. The Sherman Pass
   National Forest Scenic Byway (Highway 20) takes you over the highest
   pass in the state, amid what is really the far western extent of the
   Rocky Mountains. Fir-covered peaks over 7,000 feet tall roll north into
   Canada and east into Idaho. Hundreds of miles of trails access the
   Selkirk Mountains, Kettle River Range, and the precious old-growth
   forests of Salmo-Priest Wilderness. Remember that roads are closed from
   mid-November to June, so access to trailheads can be limited by winter
   weather.

   The rugged, rolling landscape emerged from the last ice age about
   10,000 years ago. Animals and plants followed the retreating glaciers,
   and humans were not far behind. Native Americans probably began
   hunting, fishing, and gathering in the area about 9,000 years ago. The
   Kettle Falls Interpretive Center features an exhibit depicting life as
   it existed here for millennia before Europeans arrived. White
   settlement became established in the late 1800s, attracted by the
   scenic grandeur and abundant natural resources, and facilitated by the
   transcontinental linking of the Northern Pacific Railroad.

   Lake Roosevelt, extending for 130 miles behind Grand Coulee Dam, was
   created as a result of the immense Columbia River Basin project. Named
   for President Franklin Roosevelt, the Lake Roosevelt National
   Recreation Area is now one of the largest recreation destinations in
   Washington. The areas geological formations are remnants of intense
   volcanic activity and cataclysmic ice age floods. Numerous wildflowers
   and abundant wildlife grace the lava flows and terraces along the lake.
   Its the only place in Washington to rent a charming houseboat, cruise
   the length of the lake and escape the routine of life on land. With
   literally hundreds of miles of shoreline, its a bonanza for boating,
   fishing, swimming, camping and hiking enthusiasts.

   Discover for yourself why the northeast corner of Washington is a haven
   for the last herd of wild caribou in the country. See why scores of
   eagles nest beside the salmon-rich rivers. Explore the history and
   culture of ancient civilization along with the modern attractions of a
   cosmopolitan city. The world is a better place in Ponderosa Pine
   Country.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
