http://www.cmbc.gov/mission.asp

   [spacer.gif]
   [banner.gif]

   [spacer.gif]

                  home [bar_end.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
            in espanol
   [spacer.gif]
      mission statment
   [spacer.gif]
                  news
   [spacer.gif]
    board of directors
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
                    A.
   [spacer.gif]
                   Dr.
   [spacer.gif]
                   Joe
   [spacer.gif]
   reports to congress
   [spacer.gif]
            contact us

              The U.S. Census Monitoring Board: History and...
   In November 1997, Congress established the U.S. Census Monitoring
   Board, an eight-member bipartisan panel comprised of four members
   appointed by Congress and four by the President, "to observe and
   monitor all aspects of the preparation and implementation of the 2000
   decennial census." The findings and recommendations of the Board are
   reported to Congress as prescribed by statute.
   As America`s population grows and becomes more diverse, the information
   provided by the decennial census becomes an even more important tool in
   developing and implementing policies that impact all Americans. The
   numerical accuracy of the 2000 Census is important for it tells us how
   many people live in the United States, how much we have grown since
   1990, and the ethnic makeup of the population.
   Equally important is the distributive accuracy of the Census for that
   tells us where the people live. Knowing precisely where people live is
   critical in drawing the boundary lines that determine the fair
   apportionment of congressional seats among the States as well as
   political representation at the state and local levels of government.
   Knowing where people live is also vital in determining the allocation
   of more than $185 billion in federal funds for transportation,
   education, economic and community development, health care, and many
   other state and local programs. Congress, the Administration,
   Governors, legislators, Mayors, policy and planning professionals need
   accurate census data at the local level to determine the people and
   communities in most need of assistance.
   While the majority of Americans will be counted, as they were in 1990,
   some people will be missed in Census 2000. Most will be poor,
   immigrants, members of minority communities and children. They will
   disproportionately include African-Americans, Latinos, Asian Americans,
   and Native Americans. They often live in hard-to-count areas such as
   inner-city neighborhoods, barrios, remote rural areas and reservations.
   If not corrected, this social injustice will result in inequities in
   political representation and funding for vitally needed programs.
   The Congressionally Appointed Members of the Census Monitoring Board
   have spent the past three years meeting with and listening to the
   people who live, work and serve in the hard-to-count neighborhoods
   across the nation. We have reported to Congress and the Census Bureau
   their suggestions on ways to increase participation in the census and
   ensure a more accurate count. The Board will continue to hold meetings
   with local officials, community leaders and census stakeholders
   throughout the country to gather information for future reports to
   Congress on innovative programs and activities they used to increase
   census participation.
   Former Co-Chairman J. Kenneth Blackwell, the Ohio Secretary of State,
   led the Congressional members of the Board including Dr. David W.
   Murray, A. Mark Neuman and Joe Whitley, Esq.

   The Statute - Text of the enabling legislation, setting up the Census
   Monitoring Board
