http://adoptahorse.blm.gov/adopt-bok.asp

      Bureau of Land Management Wild Horse and Burro Internet Adoption
                                                       HOME | Gallery


      National Adoption Booklet
      Providing a home for a wild horse or burro is a challenging and
      rewarding responsibility. For qualified individuals, this is a unique
      opportunity to care for, then own, a symbol of American history - a
      "Living Legend" - a wild horse or burro.

      This publication answers the most frequently asked questions about
      adopting a wild horse or burro.

       1. Why does the federal government offer wild horses and burros for
          adoption?

                   The Bureau of Land Management (Department of the Interior)
                   and the U.S. Forest Service (Department of Agriculture)
                   are responsible for the management and protection of wild
                   horses and burros on public lands. Federal protection and
                   a scarcity of natural predators results in thriving herds
                   that increase in population each year.

                   The number of animals using the range must be controlled
                   to protect the resources from improper foraging and to
                   maintain healthy thriving herds.

                   Livestock are controlled through permits and leases which
                   limit the time and number of domestic animals on the land.
                   Wildlife populations are managed by state wildlife
                   agencies. The health and welfare of wild horse and burro
                   herds are maintained by balancing the number of animals
                   with the other resources.

                   Excess wild horses and burros are removed from the range
                   to protect and maintain the habitat which is shared with
                   livestock and wildlife. These excess animals are offered
                   for adoption to qualified people through the
                   Adopt-A-Horse-or-Burro Program. Since 1973, BLM has used
                   this popular program to place over 150,000 wild horses and
                   burros in private care. Adopters care for a living symbol
                   of the "historic and pioneer spirit of the West."

       2. What is a wild horse or burro?

                   A wild horse or burro is an unbranded, unclaimed,
                   free-roaming horse or burro found on BLM or U.S. Forest
                   Service administered land in the western United States.
                   Wild horses and burros are descendants of animals released
                   by or escaped from Spanish explorers, ranchers, miners,
                   soldiers, or Native Americans.

                   All wild horses and burros are protected by the Wild Free
                   Roaming Horse and Burro Act of 1971. Even though a wild
                   horse or burro is removed from the public lands, it
                   remains a federally protected wild animal until it is
                   adopted and the federal government has transferred title
                   to the adopter.

       3. What kinds of wild horses and burros are available for adoption?

                   Wild horses are of no particular breed, but some exhibit
                   characteristics associated with specific breeds. A typical
                   wild horse stands about 14 to 15 hands (56-60 inches) and
                   weighs about 900 to 1,100 pounds. Horses are generally
                   solid in color and are predominantly sorrels, bays, or
                   browns, although all colors occur. Horses offered for
                   adoption range from several months to 20 years of age.
                   Most horses are five years or younger. Mares with unweaned
                   foals, when available, are adopted together. Geldings are
                   available at special locations, such as the prison
                   training program facilities discussed in question 4, and
                   occasionally at satellite adoptions.

                   Burros average about 11 hands (44 inches) and weigh about
                   500 pounds. They are usually gray in color, although brown
                   and black animals may be available on occasion. Jacks and
                   jennies of all ages are made available for adoption. As
                   with horses, unweaned foals are adopted together with
                   their mother.

       4. How wild is a wild horse or burro?

                   When a wild horse or burro is offered for adoption, it may
                   have been only a few months since it was running in the
                   wild. Therefore, they are not accustomed to people. With
                   kindness and patience, they can be gentled and trained for
                   many uses. Wild horses have become champions in dressage,
                   barrel racing, jumping, endurance racing, and pleasure
                   riding. They are best known for their sure-footedness,
                   strength, and endurance. Young animals gentle more quickly
                   than older ones. Wild burros gentle quickly regardless of
                   age.

                   The BLM cooperates with state prison systems in the west
                   and midwest to halter and saddle train wild horses. Horses
                   are available for adoption from these prison training
                   facilities throughout the year. Most of these programs
                   charge additional fees to cover their training costs,
                   visit: Adoption Program Office.

       5. How many wild horses and burros are available for adoption?

                   Between 6,000 and 8,000 horses and 500 to 1,000 burros are
                   offered for adoption each year. The number of burros
                   offered for adoption is much lower because the population
                   and habitat of the wild burro is smaller.

       6. What does it cost to adopt a wild horse or burro?

                   The adoption fee for each wild horse or wild burro is a
                   minimum of $125. Mares with unweaned foals are adopted for
                   $125 each, ($250 for the pair). In addition, some
                   adoptions may be conducted using a competitive bidding
                   process. The adoption fee defrays the costs of gathering,
                   medical treatment, transportation, and adoptions. Prison
                   training programs often charge a fee which reimburses the
                   state for gentling or saddle training the animal. Adopters
                   are responsible for all costs following the adoption
                   including recapture of escaped animals. Adoption fees are
                   nonrefundable.

       7. What does it cost to care for a wild horse or burro?

                   The annual cost of caring for a wild horse or burro can
                   range from $300 to $1,000 or more depending on local costs
                   and conditions. The adoption fee will be the smallest
                   expense. Consider the following types of costs when
                   figuring a "wild horse/burro budget":


   Stall/Corral rental Feed    Medicine
   Veterinarian        Tack    Training
   Vaccinations        Shoeing Salt/Supplements
   Insecticides        Worming Grooming Supplies

       8. Where can I learn more about horses or burros?

                   There is a wealth of reading and viewing material on wild
                   horses and burros. Libraries, book stores, video stores,
                   tack stores, and feed stores have books, pamphlets, and
                   videos for sale, rent, or free for the asking. The local
                   county extension office may be an excellent source of
                   help. Popular books on horses include:

                   The Wild Horse: An Adopters Manual
                   by Barbara Eustis-Cross and Nancy Bowker
                   (1992. McMillan Publishing Company);

                   Horses: A Practical Approach
                   by Melvin Bradley
                   (1981. McGraw-Hill Book Company); and

                   Horses and Horsemanship
                   by M.E. Ensminger
                   (1977. The Interstate Printers and Publishers Inc.).

       9. Where can I adopt a wild horse or burro?

                   Adoptions take place at locations across the United
                   States. Some BLM locations, prison training program
                   facilities, and BLM contract facilities have horses
                   available year round. Adoptions also occur at satellite
                   (temporary) adoption centers throughout the nation. Exact
                   times and dates are available from the offices listed at
                   the above link. You may also call 1-800-417-9647 for
                   additional information.

      10. Have the animals received medical care?

                   Every wild horse and burro offered for adoption is
                   examined by a veterinarian. Each animal receives all
                   necessary medical treatment, is tested for disease,
                   immunized, and wormed. A record of the animal's medical
                   history is given to each adopter.

                   Before you decide to adopt a wild animal, you should talk
                   to local specialists and extension agents about horse care
                   and training. Horse trainers can advise you about training
                   needs and other considerations. A veterinarian will be
                   able to provide you excellent advice on vaccinations,
                   worming programs, diet, care of teeth and the other costs
                   of caring for a horse or burro. A farrier (horse shoer)
                   can explain the cost of and requirements for foot care.

      11. How many animals can I adopt?

                   A qualified person can adopt up to four wild horses or
                   burros within a twelve month period per facility.

      12. How can I qualify to adopt a wild horse or burro?

                   You must be at least 18 years old, be a resident of the
                   United States, and have no convictions for inhumane
                   treatment of animals. You must also have, or have arranged
                   for, adequate facilities and the financial means to
                   provide for the number of animals adopted. An individual
                   who has expressed an intent to commercially exploit the
                   wild nature of a wild horse or burro, may not adopt a wild
                   horse or burro.

                   Parents or guardians may adopt, then allow younger family
                   members to care for the animal. Many young people have
                   cared for and trained wild horses or burros as projects
                   for 4-H, Future Farmers of America, county fairs, and
                   Scouts.

      13. What facilities are required for a wild horse or burro?

                   Newly adopted wild horses or burros must be kept in an
                   enclosed corral with a minimum area of 400 square feet (20
                   feet by 20 feet or larger) per animal. This amount of
                   space allows an animal to exercise. Gentled animals must
                   be exercised daily and should have a box stall of at least
                   144 square feet (12 feet by 12 feet or larger) that is
                   well ventilated, drained, and frequently cleaned.

                   Fences must be at least 5 feet high for burros and 6 feet
                   high for ungentled horses. Horses under 18 months of age
                   may be kept in corrals with fences 5 feet high. Fences
                   should be of pole, pipe, or plank construction and must
                   not have dangerous protrusions. Barbed wire is not allowed
                   in stalls or corrals.

                   An animal is considered gentled when it can be approached,
                   handled, haltered, and led without attempting to escape.
                   Ungentled animals should not be released into any large
                   open area (pasture).

                   Adopted wild horses and burros must be provided shelter
                   where severe weather (heat, cold, rain, snow, or wind)
                   occurs. Burros are much more susceptible to cold than
                   horses.

      14. How can I adopt an animal?

                   For Internet Adoptions:

                   Read the Adoption Requirements and complete the Electronic
                   Application. You will be contacted by phone after you have
                   submitted the Application. If your application is
                   approved, you must submit a deposit, and then you will be
                   given a User ID number to place bids. Internet animals
                   must be picked up by the highest bidder at the designated
                   locations. When you adopt, you will be required to sign a
                   contract, called the Private Maintenance and Care
                   Agreement, agreeing to provide humane care and treatment
                   for each animal you adopt.

                   For In-Person Adoptions:

                   Call the office which services your state, listed at the
                   bottom of the Adoption Booklet, or visit the National Wild
                   Horse and Burro web site at: www.blm.gov/whb and find the
                   National Adoption Schedule. Request a paper application,
                   any supplemental forms, and a regional schedule of
                   upcoming adoptions. Read the Adoption Requirements,
                   complete the paper application, and return it to your
                   servicing office. A Wild Horse and Burro Specialist will
                   call you to screen your application. If you are approved,
                   you may participate in the adoption. When you adopt, you
                   will be required to sign a contract, called the Private
                   Maintenance and Care Agreement, agreeing to provide humane
                   care and treatment for each animal you adopt.

      15. Will the animal belong to me or the Federal Government?

                   A wild horse or burro belongs to the government until the
                   BLM issues a title to an adopter. When the adopter signs
                   an adoption contract, he/she automatically applies for
                   title to an animal. After one year, BLM will send the
                   adopter a Title Eligibility Letter. The adopter must
                   obtain a statement from a qualified person (such as a
                   veterinarian, county extension agent, or humane society
                   representative) verifying that the adopter has provided
                   humane care and treatment. The adopter must return the
                   Title Eligibility Letter and the humane treatment
                   statement to BLM. BLM will then mail the title to the
                   adopter. There are no additional fees involved in the
                   title process.

                   Within the year after the adoption, the BLM or an agent of
                   the BLM, may visit an adopter to inspect the animal(s), to
                   ensure the conditions of the adoption agreement are met,
                   and to answer any questions the adopter may have.

      16. What are the restrictions on using my adopted animal?

                   In general there are no federal restrictions on how you
                   use your adopted wild horse or burro. However, it cannot
                   be exploited for commercial purposes that take advantage
                   of the wildness of the animal, such as rodeo bucking
                   stock. After leaving the range, all wild animals are
                   protected by state livestock and humane treatment laws.

      17. What should I bring to the adoption?
            A. Cash, money order or certified check is required for payment
               of the adoption fees. Some adoption centers and the internet
               adoption accept VISA or Mastercard. Please check with the
               office conducting the adoption. Checks should be payable to:
               USDI-BLM.
            B. A halter and lead rope for each animal. A double-stitched
               nylon webbing halter is recommended, no rope halters
               permitted. The lead rope should be about 8-20 feet long, made
               of cotton or nylon, and of sufficient strength to hold a 1,000
               pound animal. The halter buckle should be of similar strength,
               no throat latch straps will be allowed.
            C. A trailer that meets the requirements as discussed in question
               18.
      18. What kind of trailer is required to transport a wild horse or
          burro?

                   Adopters must provide transportation for their animal from
                   the adoption site to the new home. Another person may
                   transport the animal, but all trailers must meet these
                   standards

                 A. Covered top, sturdy walls/floors, and a smooth interior,
                    free from any sharp protrusions.
                 B. Ample head room.
                 C. Partitions or compartments must be large enough to allow
                    the animal to turn around.
                 D. Floor covered with a non-skid material.
                 E. Adequate ventilation.

                   Stock trailers are preferred, but other trailers that meet
                   the standards may be used. Drop ramp and two horse
                   trailers are strongly discouraged; no drop ramp tailgates
                   are allowed. All trucks and trailers may be inspected by
                   BLM employees before loading. If you have questions about
                   the suitability of a trailer call the BLM office before
                   adoption day.

      19. What should I feed my animal?

                   Good quality grass hay is adequate for a wild horse or
                   burro. Horses and burros are very sensitive to abrupt
                   changes in their feed. Additional information about
                   feeding your new friend will be available at the adoption.
                   Your veterinarian can also provide information on proper
                   care and feeding.

      20. What are some tips I should know before the adoption?
            A. If you are not experienced in driving a vehicle towing a
               trailer, arrange for someone with experience to help you.
            B. Plan the travel route in advance. Avoid large cities, rush
               hours, and bumpy roads.
            C. Allow plenty of time to view the animals before the selection
               process begins. Most adoptions draw names to determine order
               of selection.
            D. Animals should not be transported longer than 24 hours without
               unloading for a food, water, and rest. Corrals used for rest
               breaks must meet the requirements discussed in question 13.
               Reloading will require a loading chute.
            E. If your journey crosses state lines, check with each state for
               requirements of brand inspection, health certificate,
               clearance documents, etc.
        __________________________________________________________________

      For more adoption information, call or write the office serving the
      area where you wish to adopt.

      ALASKA

             907-271-5555
             Alaska State Office
             222 West 7th Avenue # 13
             Anchorage, Alaska 99513-7599

      ARIZONA

             602-580-6541 or 888 231-2582
             Phoenix District Office
             2015 West Deer Valley Road
             Phoenix, Arizona 85027

             Kingman Resource Area H
             520-692-4423

      CALIFORNIA

             916-979-4647
             California State Office
             2135 Butano Drive
             Sacramento, California 95825-1889

             Bakersfield District Office P
             805-391-6049

             Ridgecrest, California H
             619-446-6064 or 800 951-8720

             Eagle Lake Res. Area HP
             530 254-6762

      COLORADO

             719-269-8500
             Canon City District Office P
             3170 East Main Street
             Canon City, Colorado 81212

      IDAHO

             208-384-3440
             Boise District Office
             3948 Development Avenue
             Boise, Idaho 83705-5389

      MONTANA, NORTH DAKOTA, & SOUTH DAKOTA

             406-238-1540
             Billings Resource Area
             810 East Main Street
             Billings, Montana 59105-3395

      NEVADA

             702-475-2222 or 800 417-9647
             National Wild Horse & Burro Center H
             Palomino Valley
             P.O. Box 3270
             Sparks, Nevada 89432

      NEW MEXICO, KANSAS, OKLAHOMA, & TEXAS

             1-800-237-3642
             Oklahoma Resource Area P
             221 North Service Road
             Moore, Oklahoma 73160-4946

      OREGON & WASHINGTON

             541-573-4400
             Burns District Office
             HC 74-12533 Highway 20 West
             Hines, Oregon 97738

      UTAH

             801-977-4300
             Salt Lake City District Office H
             2370 South 2300 West
             Salt Lake City, Utah 84119

      WYOMING & NEBRASKA

             307-352-0208
             Rock Springs District Office HP
             P.O.Box 1869
             Highway 191 North
             Rock Springs, Wyoming 82902-1869

             Elm Creek, Nebraska
             308-856-4498

      AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, MS, NC, SC, TN, & VA

             601-977-5430 or 1-888-274-2133
             Jackson District Office
             411 Briarwood Drive, Suite 404
             Jackson, Mississippi 39206

             Cross Plains, Tennessee H
             800 376-6009

      CT, DE, DC, IL, IN, IA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MO, NH, NJ, NY, OH, PA, RI,
      VT, WV, & WI

             1-800-293-1781
             Milwaukee District Office
             310 West Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 450
             Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53203
        __________________________________________________________________

      FOOTNOTES:

             H - Holding Facility
             P - Prison Training Program

   [USEMAP:footer.gif]
