http://chems.alaska.gov/ems_poison_control.htm


   Text Links List || Health Social Services >  Public Health >  Community
                      Health Emergency Medical Services
                                      .


 Juneau Office
410 Willoughby
   Room 109
  Box 110616
Juneau, Alaska
   99811-0616
(907) 465-3027
 465-4101 FAX

                                           logo graphic
                          Community Health and Emergency Medical Services

                                                                                        Anchorage Office
                                                                                        Anchorage, Alaska
                                                                                              99501
                                                                                         (907) 278-3456



                                             Search CHEMS

                                         Program Descriptions

   Site Feedback Form

   EMS Contacts

   EMS Downloads

   EMS for Children

   Training Schedule

   EMS Links

   Site Menu


                            Poison Control System

                  Alaska Poison Report - December 19, 2001
    This report provides details regarding the calls received during this
      reporting period.  Click on the icon below to access this report:

                               [poison-a.jpg]

                         Now available online is the
             Alaska Community Medical Resource Database (ACMRD)

             Alaska's new Poison Control Center hotline number:
                               1-800-222-1222
   Please use the Poison Control Center hotline for poisoning emergencies
                                    only.
    For drug identification questions, contact your local pharmacy.  For
   animal-related poisonings, call the American Society for the Prevention
             of Cruelty to Animals' new hotline: 1-888-426-4435.
       If you would like a Poison Control Center magnet, please email
                        Raj_Maskay@health.state.ak.us

   Click here to view a powerpoint presentation on poison prevention.

                       National Poison Control System

   Poisoning is the third most common form of unintentional death in the
   United States. In any given year, there will be between two to four
   million poisonings. Sixty percent of these exposures will involve
   children under the age of six who are exposed to toxins in their home.
   Poisoning accounts for 285,000 hospitalizations, 1.2 million days of
   acute hospital care, and 13,000 fatalities yearly (Testimony of Richard
   S. Weisman, Chairman, American Association of Poison Control Centers).


   The United States Congress has passed legislation in February 2000 to
   stabilize and enhance a national system of Poison Control Centers. The
   Poison Control Center Enhancement and Awareness Act, Public Law
   106-174, establishes a toll-free telephone line, a nationwide public
   education campaign, and provides funding to certified poison control
   centers to help maintain their essential capabilities.


   Poison control centers help millions of people each year by explaining
   what ingested substances or exposures are dangerous and by ensuring
   that poisonings are treated rapidly and correctly.  Nationwide poison
   control centers managed more than two million cases in 1996. About
   three-quarters of these cases were managed at home over the telephone
   with the help of specialists trained in poison information.


   Poison control centers have been shown to be cost effective. For every
   $1 spent on poison control centers, an estimated $7 is saved in medical
   care costs (Miller, et al, Cost of Poisoning in the United States, and
   Saving from Poison Control Centers: A Benefit – Cost Analysis, Annals
   of Emergency Medicine, 1997). By helping people manage emergencies at
   home, these centers prevent about 50,000 hospitalizations and 400,000
   trips to doctor’s offices or emergency departments each year.


                         Toll-Free Telephone Number


   Often, calling a poison control center simply reassures parents or
   victims that the product ingested is not poisonous or dangerous.
   According to the 1998 annual report of the American Association of
   Poison Control Centers (AAPCC), Toxic Surveillance Exposure
   Surveillance (TESS), the majority of cases reported to poison control
   centers were managed in a non-health care facility (75.2 percent),
   usually at the site of exposure, such as the patient’s own home. Only
   12.8 percent were admitted for critical care, and another 7.0 percent
   were admitted for non-critical care. Others were treated and released
   without admission. In other cases, following phone instructions
   prevents an emergency department visit.  AAPCC has plans for a
   nationwide toll-free telephone number, which will come into effect in
   the near future.


                   Poisonings and Poison Control in Alaska


   In Alaska, 392 people died from poisoning during 1990-1998. Almost
   two-thirds (63 percent) were due to unintentional poisoning. The most
   deaths from poisoning in Alaska during 1990-1998 (43 percent) occurred
   in the Municipality of Anchorage (Alaska Bureau of Vital Statistics,
   2001). Based on the national average, at this time Alaska may have
   about 5,455 cases of human toxic exposures.

   At this time, Alaska does not have a certified poison control center or
   a system in place to provide consistent poison control access
   statewide.  There is a non-certified poison control center at
   Providence Alaska Medical Center, which maintains a toll-free telephone
   number that likely is accessible from anywhere in the state (Providence
   Alaska Medical Center staff are not certain), but it is not published
   statewide.  It is answered by the pharmacy staff that are also
   responsible for the inpatient pharmacy needs.  Therefore, the amount of
   time they are available to help the public is limited.  They also rely
   upon emergency department physicians for guidance with many calls they
   receive.


   There is also poison control assistance available from the local
   hospital emergency departments in Fairbanks and Juneau.  Their numbers
   are published in the local telephone books. Although they provide a
   valuable service, the assistance they can provide is limited. Both
   hospitals in Juneau and Fairbanks use registered nurses to answer the
   poison control line, a service they provide in addition to caring for
   their usual patient load in the emergency department.  Bartlett
   averages about eight calls per month, and Fairbanks averages about 20
   to 25 calls per month. In addition, Elmendorf Air Force Base in
   Anchorage has its own poison control number.  Some Alaskan residents
   and physicians call outside the state, particularly to Washington
   State, for poison control assistance.


                 Purpose of the Alaska Poison Control System


   The mission of this project is to achieve the greatest possible
   improvement in the health status of the people of Alaska with regards
   to poisoning occurring in the state.


   The State of Alaska has not been involved in this program area for many
   years, and Providence Alaska Medical Center is independently funding
   its poison control center as a community service.


   AAPCC has advised us that Alaska does not have a sufficient population
   to support a certified poison control center at this time. With passage
   of the new federal legislation, we need to look at this issue as a
   statewide effort to develop the best plan possible.


   It is also unclear what will happen when the national universal poison
   control toll-free number is published and implemented.  Where will the
   calls from within Alaska be directed if the citizens are not covered by
   a certified poison control center?  Would the toll-free number work
   throughout Alaska?  How will those in a poison control center distant
   from Alaska become familiar with the medical and transportation
   resources in our state, so they can give appropriate advice to
   callers.  These are questions that are not easily answered at this
   time.


   Since we do not have a comprehensive statewide poison control system in
   Alaska, extensive planning is necessary to establish a Poison Control
   System Task Force to review and prioritize all of our alternatives such
   as funding, contracts, a toll-free telephone number, and public
   education regarding poisoning in Alaska. We recognize that planning
   needs to take place now and it must be a statewide effort.  Proposed
   members of the task force include:


Mark Johnson, MPA

                   CHEMS

Barbara Simonsen

                   ACEMS, Trauma Coordinator at Providence Alaska Medical Center

Karen O’Neill, MD

                   ACEMS, Norton Sound Health Corporation

Jim Moran

                   Providence Alaska Medical Center

Doreen Risley

                   CHEMS

Matt Anderson

                   CHEMS

Nancy Davis

                   Section of Nursing

Franc Fallico, MD

                   Acting State Medical Examiner

Judy Cavanaugh

                   Representative from Bartlett Regional Hospital

Carol Meyer

                   Representative from Fairbanks Memorial Hospital

Catherine Fleming

                   Representative from 3^rd Medical Center, Elmendorf AFB

Richard Brodsky, MD

                   Representative from Alaska Native Medical Center

Jeff Baurick, MD

                   Representative from Alaska Regional Hospital

Dan Johnson

                   Regional EMS Director/Coordinator Representative

         ?

                   State Legislator

James Nesbitt, MD

                   Medical Director, Providence Alaska Medical Center
Pam Muth           Maternal and Child Family Health
Stephen Parker, MD Providence Alaska Medical Center

Raj Maskay MPH

                   CHEMS, Alaska Poison Control System

      * ACEMS is the Alaska Council on Emergency Medical Services, its
                   members are appointed by the Governor.


   We look forward to working with members of the Alaska Poison Control
   System Task Force to accomplish the best poison control possible.
   Please send your valuable suggestions on poison control to the
   following address. Thank you.

                                 Raj Maskay
                     Alaska Poison Control System, CHEMS
                              P. O. Box 110616
                            Juneau, AK 99811-0616
                             Phone 907-465-5319
                              Fax 907-465-4101
                    Email: Raj_Maskay@health.state.ak.us

     The American Association of Poison Control Centers web page can be
                         accessed by clicking here.



                    Emergency Medical Services  Programs

              Click HERE For Information on 9/11/2001 Tragedies


   EMS What's New                          EMS Contacts
   EMS Funding, Billing, and Reimbursement Training Info and Schedules
   Letters of Solicitation                 Discussion Forum
   EMS Downloads                           EMS for Children
   Certification Database                  Comfort One-DNR
   Out of State Applicants                 EMS AED
   EMS List Servers                        Alaska Council on EMS
   EMS Medical Directors                   EMS Data Collection
   Trauma Registry                         Technical Assistance Team
   Alaska EMS Symposia                     Links to Great EMS Sites
   Alaska EMS Awards                       AK EMS Directory
   Subscribe to RESPONSE: EMS Alaska       EMS Photo Gallery
   RESPONSE Newsletters                    On-Line Surveys
   Injury Prevention                       Poison Control
   Continuing Medical Education Guidelines Search CH EMS Web Site
   Alaska Health and Social Services       Alaska Public Health
   EMS Week                                Physician Medical Director Resources
   EMS Instructors


                                     TOP

                  Primary Care & Health Promotion Programs


   Cardiovascular Health   Community Based Health Promotion
   AHELP Alaska Health Education Library Project Tobacco Prevention and
   Control
   Alaskan Exposure Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey
   Alaska Primary Care Office (PCO) Rural Hospital Flexibility Program
   Health Alert Network Telemedicine
   Contacts
   CHEMS home Search CH EMS

   Alaska Health Social Services Alaska Public Health
