http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/wp0624olympics.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit Photo Gallery


                    Gasp! An Air Of Olympic Inevitability

                             The Washington Post

                                June 24, 2001

   By Steven Mufson
   Measured against Paris, Toronto and Osaka -- the other finalists
   bidding to host the 2008 Olympic games -- Beijing leaves some things to
   be desired. Like clean air.
   In the mid-1990s, the World Bank declared the Chinese capital the most
   polluted city in the world. Beijing's particulate air pollution -- the
   most harmful kind -- is several times the "safe" standard levels that
   even New York City meets, according to Bank estimates. Blanketed with
   smog, coal dust and construction dust much of the year, Beijing's air
   spawns widespread respiratory illnesses and chronic coughs. Even with
   recent improvements, the air could keep sprinters and long-distance
   runners wheezing through their events.
   So why would anyone want to hold the Olympics there?
   Because of politics. Many Olympic Committee members simply think that
   China, as home to a quarter of the world's population and a major
   trading nation, deserves a chance to host the games.
   This is ironic because, in the face of international criticism of its
   human rights policies, the Chinese government has sternly warned other
   nations -- and the United States in particular -- against mixing
   politics and sports by blocking Beijing's bid to host the 2008
   Olympics. "If we lose, we lose," China's ambassador to the United
   States, Yang Jiechi, said recently in Washington. "If we win, we will
   be very happy. But if people politicize it, I think it will be most
   unfair."
   Yet were it not for politics, Beijing would be a long shot for hosting
   the games, and not just because of its severe air pollution. Hot and
   dusty, the city lacks many of the amenities Osaka, Paris and Toronto
   can boast, such as top-notch stadiums or transportation. Nonetheless,
   Beijing will be the odds-on favorite when the International Olympic
   Committee (IOC) meets in Moscow next month to make its decision.
   To be sure, China, like other candidates, is trying to polish its
   image. During a visit by the IOC this spring, Beijing officials painted
   grass green. They promised to truck sand to the stone-covered Tiananmen
   Square so beach volleyball can be played between the mausoleum of the
   late Chinese Communist Party chairman Mao Zedong and the vermilion Gate
   of Heavenly Peace that leads to the ancient palace of China's emperors.
   The sand will cover the plaza where in 1989 hundreds of thousands of
   people gathered to demand more open and democratic government before
   Chinese army troops crushed the protests.
   The government says it will spend $ 12 billion over 10 years to clean
   up the air pollution, a prodigious sum. Some Beijing-based business
   executives believe the government will move the giant steel plant that
   dumps hundreds of thousands of tons of coal dust into the air upwind of
   the city, or at least order it shut down temporarily, along with
   hundreds of other factories, during the games. "Beijing will have air
   quality as good as Paris," said Xie Zhenhua of the State Environmental
   Protection Administration recently.
   However, by the time the Games are held in 2008, China's economy will
   double in size at current rates, possibly foiling efforts to cut
   pollution. And Beijing's environmental performance rarely matches its
   laudable goals. As a U.S. Embassy report a couple of years ago said,
   "Although official statistics tell us Beijing's air is getting better,
   our eyes and noses tell us it still has a long way to go. . . . (W)hen
   the wind doesn't blow right, the smog can be nearly asphyxiating."
   Chinese officials don't hesitate to make political arguments for giving
   Beijing the games even as they denounce politicizing the decision.
   Yang, China's ambassador, citing the anger and wounded national pride
   the Chinese people felt after Beijing lost its bid to host the 2000
   games, said that China's time had come. "The United States has hosted
   three times and is trying to get 2012 Olympics," he said. "China has
   suffered a lot in modern times and is now making great progress. And
   now it wants to host the Olympics and I think people understand those
   feelings."
   Yang and other Chinese officials have warned the U.S. Congress against
   passing a resolution urging the IOC to give the 2008 games to another
   country, and have raised the possibility of a backlash against
   Americans if the United States is seen as denying the games to China.
   One fearful American business executive who has spent almost 15 years
   in China told me he plans to take his family out of the country the
   week the IOC makes its decision in case Beijing loses again.
   So if politics is a key consideration, what is the right conclusion?
   Many China watchers argue that, however politicized, holding the games
   in Beijing could have beneficial effects. They say the surge in angry
   Chinese nationalism during the 1990s was sparked, in part, by Beijing's
   failure to win the right to host the 2000 games and by the perception
   that the United States had used its Olympic clout to block that bid on
   political grounds. Giving Beijing the games, the experts say, might
   promote liberalization and good feeling toward the United States. It
   also could prevent China from taking rash military action against
   Taiwan for fear of an Olympic boycott like the U.S.-led one of the 1980
   Moscow games.
   Such political forecasting is risky, however. Seven years from now, a
   new, more fragile ruling group might well try to harness whatever
   national pride would swell up around the games. Next year, the
   country's three top Communist Party leaders -- President Jiang Zemin,
   Premier Zhu Rongji and National People's Congress Chairman Li Peng --
   are expected to be forced to retire.
   Rival factions in a new standing committee of the Chinese Communist
   Party are likely to be finely balanced, and Jiang, Zhu and Li could
   still play roles behind the scenes. In 2007, there will be another
   chance to rearrange the government and Communist Party lineups. As one
   long-time Beijing resident said to me recently, the current system
   could last another two decades, or it could collapse in a week.
   Rep. Tom Lantos (D-Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the House
   International Relations Committee, fears a Beijing Olympics would be a
   reprise of the 1936 Berlin games, opened by Adolf Hitler. "History
   shows that Olympic hosts gain immeasurably in international esteem.
   Hitler basked in the international limelight the games afforded him,"
   said Lantos, a Holocaust survivor. Ironically, when the games were
   awarded to Berlin in 1931, it was considered a boost to the fragile
   German democratic republic. Five years later, Olympic flags and
   swastikas flew together across the city.
   Lantos has led a campaign to oppose China's Olympic bid on human rights
   grounds, just as he did in 1993. Along with Christopher Cox (R-Calif.),
   Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and others, he has introduced a House
   resolution calling on the IOC to keep the 2008 games out of Beijing --
   yet another example of the decision's politicization.
   "China's abominable human rights record violates the spirit of the
   games and should disqualify Beijing from consideration," says Lantos.
   "The Chinese people deserve the games. China's repressive regime,
   however, does not."
   There is, however, a more likely scenario for a Beijing Olympics, one
   resembling the United Nations conference on women held in the city in
   1995. That conclave was neither a triumph for the legitimacy of the
   government, nor an effective vehicle for those hoping to democratize
   China. The government barred hotels and institutes from renting
   conference rooms directly to delegates attending the conference for
   fear they would organize Chinese citizens. The government also put most
   of the delegates in hastily constructed dormitories well outside
   Beijing to prevent foreign guests from mixing freely with Beijing
   residents.
   As a result, the conference had minimal impact on freedom of thought or
   speech in China. The government, while allowing its most vociferous
   critics from abroad to attend, allowed few of their words to reach
   Chinese citizens via state-run newspapers, television or radio. Hillary
   Clinton delivered a rousing speech heard by virtually no Chinese women,
   while much of her entourage had to fight its way through a Chinese
   police cordon that tried to keep the members out in a driving
   rainstorm.
   Still, choosing Beijing to host the 2008 Olympics would not be a
   complete departure from Olympics past. After all, the IOC awarded the
   games to Seoul before democratic reforms were introduced, and to
   smog-ridden Los Angeles and Mexico City. When Soviet-run Moscow was
   chosen, no one objected that it was occupying half of Europe.
   So if Beijing is marred by corruption, burning with commercial fever
   and eager to have a chance at self-promotion, maybe that makes it the
   perfect place for what the Olympics have become. What difference does a
   little air pollution make?
