http://ohv.parks.ca.gov/default.asp?page_id=21236


                    Welcome to California California Home

   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
                                    Tree



                               Home Page Home
                      State Vehicular Recreation Areas
                                  Sno Parks
                              Laws and Safety
                            Conservation Efforts
                                  About Us
                                  Site Map


                                Related Links



                                 Home Page
                           Grants and Regulations
                            News and Information
                               Off-Road PALs
                       Safety, Education and Outreach



   Accessibility
   Home Page




   Accessibility
   Backcountry Access The OHMVR Division has taken a leadership role to
   expand backcountry access for individuals with disabilities. In 2000, a
   team was convened to address accessibility and as a result, Disabled
   Sports USA (DSUSA, a nationally recognized non-profit organization
   dedicated to expanding recreation opportunities for those with mental
   and physical challenges), stepped up to the table. An OHV Grant
   proposal was submitted by DSUSA and subsequently funded to conduct
   several pilot projects and develop a model accessibility program that
   could be replicated in communities statewide. California 4-Wheel Drive
   Club is working in partnership with DSUSA providing volunteers and
   4-wheel drive vehicles.
   Five pilot projects have been set for calendar 2001. There will be six
   single-day outings with new participants each day and two 2-day
   overnight excursions. These mainstream adventures integrate family,
   friends and peers with a large cross section of ages and disabilities.
   Activities include learning safe use of 4-wheel drive vehicles and
   responsible environmental protocol as well as river rafting, lake
   canoeing, swimming and safe camping practices. These pilots will act as
   the base for the development and eventual publication of a Model How-To
   manual that will be distributed to communities interested in developing
   their own program.
   State Vehicular Recreation Areas
   Accessibility is a high priority at all of our state owned and funded
   recreation facilities. This year the OHMVR Division is adding an
   accessible vaulted restroom and parking area at the Ocotillo Wells SVRA
   Quarry Road Campground and retrofitting a kiosk for handicap access at
   Oceano Dunes SVRA. All of the SVRAs recognize the need to make
   facilities accessible and every time a repair is done or a new facility
   is build, an accessibility element is included within the project.



                              __________ search
                         (*)  My CA ( )   This Site

                             Back to Top of Page
     © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                        Privacy Policy Email Webmaster
