http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/call/presidential_greetings.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

         Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

                           Presidential Greetings
   The White House Greetings Office handles as many requests as possible,
   in accordance with a set of long-standing guidelines. PLEASE NOTE THAT
   ALL GREETING REQUESTS MUST BE SUBMITTED IN WRITING TO:

     The White House
     Attn: Greetings Office
     Washington, D.C. 20502-0039

   Please review these guidelines carefully before mailing your request to
   the White House.
    1. U.S. CITIZENS ONLY. The White House will send greetings to United
       States citizens only, for special occasions as outlined below.

    2. ADVANCE NOTICE REQUIRED. Your request must be received six (6)
       weeks in advance of the event date. We make every effort to honor
       every request, but we cannot guarantee a greeting if this guideline
       is not met. (Greetings are generally not sent after the event date,
       except for wedding congratulations and newborn acknowledgments.)

    3. ANNIVERSARY GREETINGS. Anniversary greetings are extended only to
       those couples who are celebrating their 50th (and subsequent)
       wedding anniversary.

    4. BIRTHDAY GREETINGS. Birthday greetings will be sent only to
       individuals 80 years of age and above.

    5. OTHER GREETINGS. A limited number of special occasions other than
       birthdays and anniversaries exist for which the Greetings Office
       will send appropriate recognition to United States citizens. These
       occasions include important events such as:

         a. Wedding (send your request after the event)
         b. Baby's Birth (must be born during the Bush Administration;
            send request only after baby's birth)
         c. Eagle Scout Award
         d. Girl Scout Gold Award
         e. Bar/Bat Mitzvah or equivalent occasion

    6. REQUIRED INFORMATION. Please include the following in your request:

         a. name and home address of honoree(s)
         b. form of address (Mr., Ms., Mrs., Dr., Miss, etc.)
         c. exact date of occasion (month, day, year)
         d. age (birthdays) or number of years of marriage
         e. your (the requestor's) name and daytime phone number
         f. any specific mailing instructions if other than to honoree's
            address
         g. Wedding (Include couple's married names and current or new
            address)
         h. Baby's Birth (Include baby's date of birth and full names and
            address of baby and parents)

    7. WHEN TO EXPECT YOUR GREETING. In most cases, greetings will be
       mailed from the White House approximately ten (10) days prior to
       the event.

     Image linking to top of page Last Updated: January 11, 2002

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
