http://www.accessnoaa.noaa.gov/jamesjordan.html

   Second part of the top banner with pictures of an airplane, the NOAA
   seal and florida outline. Banner with various pictures of NOAA related
   items with Access NOAA across the graphic.


                                Jan 10, 2002

               an online newsletter for and by NOAA employees


                               SEARCH_________
                                     GO
                              Main Page Button
















                              Employee of Month
                          Tracks Path of Pollution
                                [jjordan.jpg]

   Ask James Jordan what he does and he says hes an electronics engineer.
   Ask his colleagues at NOAA Research what he does and they Jims
   exceptional level of commitment has advanced new observational
   technology and anticipated new observational needs which directly
   affect the prediction of weather, climate and air quality.
   Jims engineering leadership and technological innovation have earned
   him the years first Employee of the Month award. At NOAA Researchs
   Environmental Technology Laboratory in Boulder, Jim is described as
   finding simple but elegant solutions to engineering problems.
   To collect initial data demonstrating the value of one innovation, he
   collaborated with Scripps Institute of Oceanography to deploy a
   wind-profiler prototype on a buoy anchored off Southern Californias
   coast.
   As new instruments are designed and deployed to remote, inaccessible
   areas, Jims benchmark simplicity will be key to reliable yet ongoing
   and unattended operation.
   Most of Jims experiments involve a network of radars used to track
   where air pollution is carried by the wind. He also measures
   atmospheric information for use in models that predict air pollution
   problems. To conduct his experiments, Jim works on radars that measure
   winds and temperature. He develops remote sensing instruments to
   measure the atmosphere and sea. He is responsible for improving the
   data quality of radars and their use for various experiments.
   Without data, environmental decisions would be made without any
   knowledge of what happens in the atmosphere, he said.
   To advance this knowledge, Jim has promoted highly effective
   partnerships with private investments and assembled energetic and
   highly qualified engineers to both develop and deploy remote sensing
   technology throughout the globe. To conduct climate research, he has
   led field engineers in improving and deploying remote sensing
   instruments from the Poles to the Equator.
   Asked what he values most about working at NOAA, Jim underscored the
   freedom to pursue ideas for improving radars.
   From the time they were small, Jims son and daughter spent time in his
   lab. Both learned early on how to build electronic circuits. Now his
   teen-age son is teaching himself assembly language to write a game for
   his calculator.


   Contact Info | Privacy Statement | Disclaimer
   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration
   (NOAA),
   U.S Dept. of Commerce
   Date Last Updated: 01/10/02
