http://www.100.nist.gov/security.htm

                          National Security Impacts


   The modern era of U.S. aviation was launched with NIST’s help. Before
   World War I, U.S. military forces had only several dozen aircraft, all
   obsolete by European standards. Aviation instruments were sent to NIST
   for testing, and many were modified or overhauled before being adopted
   by the military. NIST also produced the first quantitative data on the
    power-producing qualities of fuels and the first serious U.S. studies
                       of the aerodynamics of flight.

   Important initial research on the atomic bomb was carried out by NIST,
       which served as a central control lab for determination of the
    properties of uranium. The staff also found a way to remove virtually
    all impurities from uranium oxide and developed analytical procedures
      for controlling the purity of critical materials used in nuclear
   reactors and bombs. Eventually, development and engineering tasks were
              transferred to the military’s Manhattan Project.

    NIST researchers patented a radio direction finder, a special antenna
   that determined the direction of radio transmissions, which served as a
       prototype for the U.S. Navy and was used widely to pinpoint the
    positions of enemy forces during World War I. NIST also disproved the
   then-common notion that radio communication was impossible under water
      and built a simple but effective radio apparatus for submarines.

    The trend toward miniaturization of electronics was advanced by NIST
    weapons research, which led to a contractor’s development of printed
    circuits. This technology substituted printed wiring, resistors, and
    coils for the conventional discrete components in electronic devices.
      NIST provided useful engineering data and components, including a
       rotary printer that applied printed circuits on either flat or
                            cylindrical surfaces.

   The U.S. synthetic rubber industry was created with NIST’s help during
   World War II, when imports of natural rubber from the Far East were cut
    off. Prewar NIST work on the thermodynamics of rubber suggested which
        types of synthetics to use and how to test them. NIST helped
      standardize both physical and chemical testing, thereby improving
      accuracy in rubber testing, and helped develop tests and improve
             instruments later used in synthetic rubber plants.

    NIST contributed to the design of two early “smart” weapons systems
   used in World War II. One was a “radio proximity fuse” that exploded a
   projectile when directly over its target, rather than on impact, making
   the weapon five to 20 times more effective. NIST also helped design and
    construct the Bat, the first fully automated guided missile ever used
                           successfully in combat.

    The military and other users have saved millions of dollars thanks to
   NIST’s contributions to the testing of antennas used for communications
   to and from satellites. NIST developed a theory that made it practical
     for researchers to compute an antenna’s complex outdoor radiation
    pattern using data collected entirely indoors near a test antenna, as
      well as software for using the data to compute field performance.

    The voltmeters used to make products such as missile guidance systems
    commonly are calibrated using standards based on NIST technology. In
   the 1980s, NIST developed a volt standard that was more accurate, more
            stable, and much easier to use than its predecessors.

    Commercial machines influenced by NIST’s real-time control system, a
     concept for controlling automation, are improving the precision of
   shipbuilding and keeping U.S. troops out of harm’s way by clearing land
     mines in Bosnia. The RCS was among the influential technologies to
   emerge from NIST’s Automated Manufacturing Research Facility, which was
                       co-sponsored by the U.S. Navy.

                            Date created: 2/9/01
                            Last updated: 2/9/01
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
