http://www.fire.gov/newsletter/fall2001/firedotgov_fall_2001.pdf

   F FIIR RE E..G GO OV V Better fire fighting through research Fall Issue
   -- 2001 Slips and Falls Related to Protective Clothing Ensemble Page 1
   The role of the fire fighter The major findings were that slips
   protective clothing ensemble in and falls account for 25 percent of
   Slips and Falls Related slips and falls was investigated by fireground
   injuries to firefighters, to Protective Clothing Chief Donald Adams
   while and that protective clothing Ensemble working at King's Point
   ensembles impair balance. Volunteer Fire Department and Further, it was
   recommended that ATF and Kinston, NC the City of Orlando Fire more
   research using computer- Fire and Rescue Burn to Department in Florida.
   The based assessments to evaluate Learn paper resulting from this study
   protective clothing be performed. was one of the six award winners The
   complete award-winning Page 2 in the U.S. Fire Administration, paper
   may be downloaded from Sway and Position of COG in National Fire
   Academy's the National Fire Academy's web Protective Clothing Ensemble
   New Instrument Executive Fire Officer's site: Measures Smoke
   http://www.usfa.fema.gov/nfa/tr_ora.htm. Program's in the year 2000.
   The Obscuration in Building paper discusses research that was For
   additional information, Fires performed to learn more about the contact
   Chief Donald R. Adams, slips and falls experienced by Sr., currently
   with the Osceola Role of the Fire Service firefighters when they wore
   County Fire Rescue Recognized in Fire protective clothing ensembles.
   Department, Kissimmee, FL, Protection Design The effects of the center
   of gravity telephone: 407-343-7000 or (COG) and balancing ability when
   e-mail: dada@osceola.org Page 3 wearing a station uniform vs.
   protective clothing ensembles, For information on the Executive Effect
   of Protective Clothing NASA Brings Spacesuit including wearing a
   self-contained Fire Officers Program, contact Ensemble on Balance
   Technology to Fire breathing apparatus were studied. Chuck Burkell,
   301-447-1072, Fighting chuck.burkell@fema.gov Nanoparticles increase
   Foam Effectiveness ATF and Kinston, NC Fire and Rescue Burn to Learn
   Page 4 The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco homes that are part of a FEMA
   utilizing large quantities of and Firearms (ATF) uses NIJ Releases Five
   buyout of the flood-damaged liquid petroleum gas (LPG). In buildings of
   opportunity to Equipment Guides for addition to supporting conduct fire
   investigation research properties along the Neuse River. Fire
   Responders This large area of homes, with the and training for agents
   in the city infrastructure still intact, Cont. on page 2 Certified Fire
   Investigator Program. ATF has developed a provided unique opportunities
   for FDNY Chief Ganci fire testing. unique partnership with the City
   Remembered as a of Kinston, North Carolina, and In 1998, ATF began
   going to Friend of Research particularly the Kinston Kinston to conduct
   live burn Department of Fire and Rescue training exercises and
   full-scale (KFD) to use flood damaged fire tests. Tests and training
   have buildings for controlled fire included such things as origin and
   experiments. Chief Greg Smith, cause determination, full-scale in
   cooperation with other city house burns to total collapse, officials,
   has made available to electrical studies in fully ATF Agents Observe
   August, 2001 ATF an entire neighborhood of energized structures and one
   large House Fire Experiment in (and quite spectacular) burn Kingston,
   NC, Before They Dig in the Remains Page 1 FIRE.GOV ATF and Kinston, NC
   Fire and Rescue Burn to Learn, cont. the ATF mission, the fires Chief
   Smith, Commander ATF is interested in have provided some unique
   Crawford, Capt. Reavis and additional opportunities to training
   opportunities for the KFD firefighters have burn in many different
   types KFD. been outstanding in of structures to add to the The ATF-KFD
   relationship supporting the wide variety of storehouse of knowledge
   that has been ongoing and has fire test requests. They have can be used
   by fire expanded to include support demonstrated their investigators.
   Contact: for fire testing needs of NIST, professionalism and
   flexibility Agent Lester Rich, USFA, Harvey Mudd College, during an
   often challenging Charleston, SC Office, ATF, the ATF Fire Research and
   somewhat unpredictable 843-727-4275; e-mail fire test schedule.
   LVRICH@charl.atf.treas.gov KFD protects surroundings as house
   Laboratory, as well as other burning experiment continues. agencies.
   New Instrument Measures Smoke Obscuration in Building Fires To improve
   the study of life of smoke, thus allowing (LED) as a source. With a
   safety in burning buildings, researchers to better double-skinned
   casing that Australian scientists have understand the visibility
   prevents the sensors from developed a smoke meter that issues of
   occupants and fire over heating. Cooling is allows the accurate study
   of fighters in a building fire. supplied by compressed air. smoke in
   building fires and remains undamaged through The High Temperature For
   additional information, flashover. Commonwealth Smoke Meter can measure
   contact Dr. Dilip Manuel, Scientific & Industrial the smoke in regions
   of the telephone: (61) + 3 9252 Research Organization fire not possible
   with other 6073; e-mail: (CSIRO) Fire Science and meters. It is an
   optical beam Dilip.Manuel@dbce.csiro.au Technology Laboratory's type
   meter using an ultra smoke meter measures the bright monochromatic
   focused light emitting diode Optical Beam Meter with a LED Being
   optical density Used to Study Smoke Role of the Fire Service Recognized
   in Fire Protection Design The Society of Fire design. Viewing the fire
   fire department operations. Protection Engineers (SFPE) service as one
   of the fire The Evaluating Fire Service produces guidance documents
   protection systems for Contributions to Engineered for engineers
   performing fire buildings, guidance will be Fire Protection Design task
   safety designs. These provided on how the group is one of seven SFPE
   documents are widely contributions of the fire task groups. For
   information, accepted statements of best service to fire safety can be
   see engineering practices. SFPE considered during the
   http://www.sfpe.org/taskgrm. SFPE Logo has created a new task group
   building design. Guidance html or contact Morgan that will develop
   guidance on also will be provided on how Hurley, SFPE Technical
   accounting for fire engineers can best design Director, at 301-718-2910
   or department operations in buildings and fire safety mhurley@sfpe.org
   . engineered fire protection systems so that they facilitate Page 2
   FIRE.GOV NASA Brings Spacesuit Technology to Fire Fighting NASA's
   Johnson Space Center badly damaged helmet to the The development team
   has together with the Houston Fire Space Center and asked if identified
   40 additional areas Department, the Department there were any NASA from
   which space suit of Defense, Aerospace Design technologies that could
   technology can potentially add and Development, Oceaneering provide
   better performance. improvements to structural Space Systems, ILC
   Dover, firefighter protective gear. and Lockheed Martin are In the
   evolving partnership, These include: integrated developing a prototype
   members of the Houston Fire helmet, improved gloves, protective suit
   that could Department took the lead radiant heat protection, and double
   the time a firefighter with respect to determining ergonomic evaluation
   for best can battle a blaze before goals and requirements for the fit.
   The integrated helmet needing rehab to cool off. This suit; the Johnson
   Space Center would have a built-in duplex advanced firefighter suit
   uses a coordinates the project and digital radio, bone-conduction
   number of technologies that develops approaches for the headset for
   noise reduction, Prototype Supercritical Cryogenic also protect
   space-walking design, integration and testing infrared imaging to
   search for Air Mobility Pack (SCAMP) for astronauts, including new
   outer of the suit and its components. fire victims, biodata and Both
   Breathing and Cooling garment fabrics and active temperature sensors,
   and cooling inner garments that can The Defense Department readouts on
   the status of its life allow more lengthy exposure to support system.
   temperatures of up to 260 develops heat stress models and develops,
   tests and degree C (500 degrees F), evaluates materials. The For
   additional information, while protecting the firefighter from building
   up metabolic NASA contractors build contact Tico Foley at 281-483-
   mockups, firefighters try them 2996; fax: 281-244-5773; heat stress.
   out and make comments, then tico.foley@jsc.nasa.gov. For Work on
   developing an the contractors build information on NASA's prototypes
   for field tests and Technology Transfer program, advanced firefighter
   suit began certification for compliance visit their web site: in 1997
   when two Houston http://technology.jsc.nasa.gov. firefighters brought a
   with minimum firefighter standards. Cooling System Inside Turnout Coat
   Nanoparticles Increase Foam Effectiveness To suppress liquid fuel
   fires, Laboratory tests measured For more information contact:
   firefighters often use Class B the ability of a 30 cm Dr. Rick D.
   Davis, 301-975-6698; foams; one of these Class B diameter ring of foam
   to seal e-mail: rick.davis@nist.gov. foams is AFFF. During or a 10 cm
   diameter hole of after foam application, the burning heptane. Clay-AFFF
   foam blanket may be broken foam was able to seal the any number of ways
   and, if hole and extinguish the fire broken, the fuel re-ignites. in 7
   seconds. Regular AFFF NIST has shown that foam did not extinguish the
   Applying the clay-AFFF foam to a microscopic clay particles, fire. 30
   cm diameter heptane pool containing plates organized surrounding the 10
   cm hollow like a deck of cards, may Additional fire testing will be
   cylinder. significantly increase the done to provide more flame
   resistance of polymers information on the when incorporated into the
   effectiveness of clay as an AFFF foam. inexpensive performance- Drawing
   of Mica-type Nanometer enhancing additive. Plates (tan) Mixed into a
   Polymer Matrix (blue) Page 3 FIRE.GOV NIJ Releases Five Equipment
   Guides for Fire Responders Responding to the urgent literature searches
   and need for guidance in surveys. NIJ Guides: selection of equipment
   used by first responders to NIJ is the focal point for Guide for the
   Selection of Chemical incidents involving chemical, providing support
   to State Agent and Toxic Industrial Material Detection Equipment for
   Emergency biological, and toxic and local law enforcement First
   Responders, NIJ Guide 100-00 agencies in the development Portable
   Detector Using Infrared industrial materials, the An Introduction to
   Biological Agent Spectrometry Technology Analyzes National Institute of
   Justice of counter terrorism Detection Equipment for Emergency Ambient
   Air (NIJ) has released five new technology and standards, First
   Responders, NIJ Guide 101-00 guides. Some of the guides including
   technology needs are complete and others are for chemical and
   biological Guide for the Selection of Personal in draft form subject to
   defense. This work was part Protective Equipment for Emergency change.
   All of the of the research program of First Responders, NIJ Guide
   102-00 documents are available the Office of Law Guide for the
   Selection of Chemical through the web started at Enforcement Standards
   at and Biological Decontamination URL NIST. Equipment for Emergency
   First www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/new.htm Responders, NIJ Guide 103-00
   Handheld Detector Samples For further information Environment Using an
   Air Pump With The information assembled contact: Dr. Al Fatah, 301-
   Guide for the Selection of Ion Mobility Spectrometry (IMS)
   Communication Equipment for Technology in the guides on specific
   975-2753 or Emergency First Responders, NIJ equipment and technologies
   aafatah@nist.gov . Guide 104-00 was obtained through FDNY Chief Ganci
   Remembered as a Friend of Research Chief Peter J. Ganci, Fire Chief
   Ganci provided his At NIST and USFA we Deparment - City of New insights
   in the multi-day continue to work hard to York (FDNY), lost his life
   workshops to help update address the priorities that he commanding the
   response to and sharpen the needs helped define. the terrorist attack
   on the New assessment. We were York World Trade Center. honored to have
   an officer of Click here for a PDF file of the We remember him in a
   special Chief Ganci's stature and report, "Fire Service Needs way as a
   man who helped responsibility assist in the Workshop Proceedings,
   researchers define the needs effort. Chief Ganci wanted San Antonio,
   Texas, of the fire service. The last the best for his department NIST-
   USFA fire service members, so he encouraged October 13-15, 1999." needs
   workshop was held in their involvement in the San Antonio, Texas.
   Findings research process to keep the Dave Evans - Editor Fire Service
   Needs Workshop Proceedings of this workshop are used by equipment and
   tactics they NIST, USFA and others to set use on the leading edge.
   priorities for research funding (See FIRE.GOV, Spring, to address the
   identified 2001.) needs. Contact Information: National Institute of
   Standards and Technology U.S. Fire Administration 100 Bureau Drive, MS
   8660 16825 S. Seton Avenue Gaithersburg, MD 20899 Emmitsburg, MD 21727
   David Evans Bob McCarthy Email: editor@fire.gov Email:
   Bob.McCarthy@fema.gov If you would like to be notified via email each
   time a new Phone: 301-975-6897 Phone: 301-447-1130 issue is published,
   an Online Request Form is available at Fax: 301-975-4052 Fax:
   301-447-1093 www.fire.gov . Editor: David Evans Associate Editor: Nora
   Jason Page 4 Design and Layout: Kellie Beall
