http://www.hawaiireef.noaa.gov/region/region.html

   Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve

Home

   The Region

   Questions & Answers

   Documents

   Maps & Imagery

   Reserve Council

   Public Comment

   Search This Site

   About This Site
   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]

The Region

   The diverse and expansive coral reef ecosystem of the Northwestern
   Hawaiian Islands encompasses an array of scientific and historic
   objects found nowhere else on Earth. The coral reefs are the foundation
   of an ecosystem that hosts a distinctive array of marine mammals, fish,
   sea turtles, birds, and invertebrates, including species that are
   endemic, rare, threatened, and endangered.


                                      map of northwestern hawaiian islands

    The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve extends
    approximately 1,100 nautical miles (about 2,000 km) and encompasses an
    area of 99,500 sq. nautical mi. (about 340,000 sq. km), This is larger
                       than the land area of Florida and Georgia combined.

   Federally protected species include the endangered Hawaiian monk seal
   and the threatened green sea turtle. The coral reefs and lands that
   support these species provide an amazing geological record of the
   volcanic and erosive powers that have shaped this area. These diverse
   natural resources are complemented by the area's rich historic
   significance. Numerous artifacts establish a close relationship with
   the Hawaiian culture in the main Hawaiian Islands, as well as to early
   Polynesian cultures. With its diverse history and significant natural
   resources, this coral reef ecosystem also provides outstanding research
   opportunities for biologists, oceanographers, archaeologists, and
   historians.

Formation and Geology

   Approximately 25 million years ago, a series of volcanic land masses
   emerged from the sea to form the Hawaiian Archipelago, among the
   longest and most isolated chains of tropical islands in the world. The
   Northwestern Hawaiian Islands constitute the northwestern two-thirds of
   this vast chain. These are very small islands, most less than a square
   mile in area. At the southeastern end is Nihoa Island, which is 131
   miles from Niihau, the westernmost of the main Hawaiian Islands. Moving
   northwest, the 1,200 mile stretch of emergent lands are characterized
   as small rocky islands, atolls, coral islands and reefs, which become
   progressively older and generally smaller (Wells, 1988). The last
   island in the northwestern series, Kure Atoll, is known by scientists
   as the Darwin Point, where the rate of coral growth barely keeps pace
   with the rate of submergence and erosion of the volcanic islands. North
   of Kure, where growth rates are even slower, drowned atolls form the
   Emperor Seamounts,

   nihoa island

   Nihoa island is the easternmost of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands
   chain.
   which extend all the way to the Kamchatka Peninsula in Russia (
   Grigg, 1982). Because of their active volcanism, isolation, and linear
   progression, the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, together with the main
   Hawaiian Islands, represent a nearly perfect textbook example of the
   evolution of islands and reefs (Gulko, 1998). The Northwestern Hawaiian
   Islands are even more exemplary because they have been subjected only
   to minimal human disturbance.

   (top)

The Coral Reef Ecosystem

   The healthy and extensive coral reefs of the Northwest Hawaiian Islands
   encompass over 11,000 square kilometers of coral reef habitat, over 65%
   of all coral reefs in U.S. waters (Miller and Crosby, 1998). Pearl and
   Hermes Atoll has the most extensive nearshore reefs (less than three
   miles from shore); Gardner Pinnacles, Maro Reef, and Necker Island, the
   most extensive offshore reefs.

   The reefs are comprised of forty-seven species of hard coral and eight
   species of soft coral (Brainard, pers comm), a diversity and species
   richness that rivals that of the main Hawaiian Islands. But, compared
   to other regions, the diversity or coral species is low and is often
   attributed to the isolation of this island chain (Grigg, 1983; Maragos,
   1977). This low diversity is thought to account for the exceptionally
   high numbers of endemic Hawaiian marine species. Within the
   Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, the reefs differ in coral cover and
   species organization. Coral cover gradually declines to the northwest
   due to slower growth rates and the increased frequency of storm
   disturbances (Grigg, 1983). In the past, mean coral cover was thought
   to range from 8% to 69% among the islands (Green, 1997).


                                                     table coral formation

     Large hard coral formations, like this table coral, support a dynamic
                               ecosystem of thousands of marine organisms.

   This vast coral reef ecosystem supports a dynamic system of marine
   species. While more than 7,000 marine species have been recorded in the
   Hawaiian Islands, as many as half of them exist only in the
   Northwestern Hawaiian Islands (
   Hawaii DLNR, 2000). The coral reefs are the foundation of an expansive
   ecosystem that hosts an interdependent association of vertebrates (monk
   seals, reef and bottom fish, turtles, birds, sharks), invertebrates
   (corals, anemones, jellyfishes, mollusks, shrimps, crabs, lobsters, sea
   urchins, sea stars, sea cucumbers), sea grasses, and algae.

   Coral species in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands are slower-growing
   than in most areas, as noted at Kure Atoll, also known as the Darwin
   Point. Climatic events, on an interannual scale, may play an important
   role in the ecosystem productivity of the northwestern chain. Declines
   in the productivity of seabirds, monk seals, reef fishes, and
   chlorophyll have been documented from the early 1980s to the present,
   and have been attributed, in part, to these climatic events
   (Friedlander, 1996). While severe tropical storms or typhoons are rare,
   winter storms are common, resulting in a noticeable increase in winds
   and high seas that impact the reef system.

   (top)

Marine Mammals and Sea Turtles


   monk seal

   The entire world population of monk seals, an endangered species, is
   found in this region.
   The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands ecosystem also plays an important
   role in supporting marine mammals. For example, the entire world
   population of endangered Hawaiian monk seals is found in this region,
   with areas designated as critical habitat under the Endangered Species
   Act. The current population of monk seals is estimated at about 1,400
   animals, and mean beach counts of about 375 adult seals from the main
   reproductive sites remain essentially unchanged since 1993 (
   Johanos, 2000). Critical monk seal habitat includes all beach areas and
   land, lagoon waters, inner reef waters, and ocean waters out to 20
   fathoms around all emergent land. Recent research demonstrates that
   Hawaiian monk seals typically range well outside of the currently
   designated critical habitat, foraging to depths of 500 meters for prey
   associated with precious gold coral beds found in deep waters. (WPRFMC,
   2000).

   Hawaiian spinner and bottlenose dolphins are also year round resident
   species. Numerous other dolphin and whale species (e.g., spotted and
   striped dolphins, humpback, killer and beaked whales) occur seasonally
   within at least 20 nautical miles of the Northwestern Hawaiian Island
   archipelago.

   This ecosystem is important nesting habitat for the threatened green
   sea turtle. Significant nesting sites exist on French Frigate Shoals
   and to a lesser degree on Laysan Island, Lisianski Island, and Pearl
   and Hermes Reef. The green sea turtle occupies three habitat types:
   open beaches, open sea, and feeding grounds in shallow, protected
   waters. Upon hatching, the young turtles gradually work their way from
   the beach, over shallow reef areas and extensive shoal areas to the
   open ocean. When their shells grow 8-10 inches long, they move to
   shallow feeding grounds over coral reefs and rocky bottoms (FWS, 2000).
   Age at sexual maturity is estimated at 20-50 years.

   The green sea turtle was listed as threatened in 1978. Although the
   population has increased significantly since the 1970s, the total
   number of nesting females is still well below the historical levels of
   the late 1800s (NMFS, 2000). Scattered low level nesting occurs
   throughout the Hawaiian archipelago, however, over 90 percent occurs at
   French Frigate Shoals. The shallow waters within French Frigate Shoals
   have been identified as inter-nesting habitat for adult females and
   also adult males that migrate to breed at this key site (Dizon and
   Balazs, 1982). This amounts to approximately 200-700 nesting females
   annually (Threatened, 2001). Research indicates that the range of adult
   green turtles using French Frigate Shoals is limited to the 2,400
   kilometer stretch of the Hawaiian Archipelago (Balazs 1976, 1983) and
   to Johnston Atoll immediately to the South, where algal foraging
   pastures occur (Balazs, 1985). While the green sea turtle is a resident
   species, the leatherback, olive ridley, and loggerhead sea turtles are
   considered transient species that occur seasonally in this expansive
   area.

Fishes


   butterfly fish

   Butterfly fish are one of the over 266 species of fish sharing the reef
   ecosystem with marine mammals and invertebrates.
   The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands support numerous marine, reef, and
   shore fish. The total number of species is unknown, but one study found
   approximately 266 species (
   Randall et al., 1993). Fish communities in the Northwestern Hawaiian
   Islands are dominated by apex predators, such as sharks and jacks. The
   reef community is characterized by fewer herbivores, such as
   surgeonfishes, and more carnivores, such as damselfishes, goatfishes,
   and scorpionfishes. Reef fish trophic structure is strongly dominated
   by carnivores in numerical abundance and biomass (Parrish et al.,
   1985). Some fish species commonly found in the Northwestern Hawaiian
   Islands, such as the slingjaw wrasse and the knifefish, are rare
   elsewhere in the archipelago (Friedlander, 1996). Northwestern Hawaiian
   Islands species are considered integral to fisheries in the main
   Hawaiian Islands as sources to replenish commercial and recreational
   fish and lobster populations.

   (top)


                                                             boobie chicks

          Boobies are one of the many species of seabirds dependent on the
                                    islands as a critical nesting habitat.

Seabirds

   The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands provide vital habitat for 14 million
   nesting seabirds and breeding species, many of which rely on the coral
   reefs for food. Ninety-nine percent of the world's Laysan albatross,
   and 98% of the worlds black-footed albatross, nest in these islands
   (Midway Atoll NWR, 2000).


Invertebrates

   The coral reefs of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands support diverse
   communities of benthic macroinvertebrates. Sixty-three species of
   macroinvertebrates, largely mollusks, echinoderms, and crustaceans,
   have been documented. Spiny and slipper lobsters

   sea urchin

   Echinoderms are one of the many benthic invertebrates contributing to
   the vast species diversity of the reef ecosystem.
   are an important commercial fishery, but are also a vital link in the
   trophic food web of many other organisms in the near-shore coral reef
   ecosystem (
   Friedlander, 1996).

   Algae are important to Hawaii's ecology as a food source for a number
   of reef organisms, and also serve as settling and attachment sites for
   small and cryptic reef species. Some 205 species of marine algae,
   including a number of new deep-water species that are relatively
   unknown in the area, have been identified in the Northwestern Hawaiian
   Islands (Abbott, 1989).


Culture and History

   The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands are closely tied to the cultural
   heritage of Hawaii and more broadly to U.S. history. Numerous artifacts
   found on Nihoa Island establish a close relationship with the Hawaiian
   culture in the main Hawaiian Islands. As many as 175 people are
   estimated to have lived there during prehistoric times. There is
   evidence of habitation, religious ceremonies, agriculture, and burials
   at 88 archaeological sites on Nihoa Island. Artifacts on Necker Island
   suggest that the island was used in prehistoric times, primarily for
   religious ceremonies. Of the 52 known archaeological sites, 33 are
   religious shrines. Many of the temple sites closely resemble those of
   the Marquesas Islands and Tahiti, possibly establishing a link to early
   Polynesian cultures. Oral history and identified artifacts demonstrate
   that these islands have also served as fishing grounds for the people
   of Hawaii for centuries. Both Nihoa and Necker Islands are on the
   National Registry of Historic Places.

   The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands played a significant role in U.S.
   history during World War II. In June 1942, the famous Battle of Midway
   took place in the seas to the north of this Pacific outcrop. Midway
   Island is now Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge, the only remote
   island National Wildlife Refuge open to the public (Hawaii DLNR, 2000).
   This effort complements President Franklin D. Roosevelt's legacy of the
   Hawaiian Islands National Wildlife Refuge, which encompasses the eight
   easternmost islands in the chain and the surrounding reefs, for the
   protection of seabirds.

   (top)

Preserving the Ecosystem


                                              coral wrapped in fishing net

   A tendril from a net weighing approximately 300 pounds hangs on a coral
                                            head at French Frigate Shoals.

   The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands ecosystem remains relatively
   pristine. The ecosystem's remote location and seasonally harsh weather
   conditions, make it less attractive to tourists than the main Hawaiian
   Islands in the southeast. Since Midway Island is the only inhabited
   island in the chain, there are few impacts from land-based human
   activities, such as wastewater and storm runoff.

   One of the principal threats to the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands
   ecosystem is marine debris, mainly in the form of derelict fishing
   gear. Derelict gear caught in North Pacific Ocean circular currents are
   deposited in the archipelago reefs, which act like a comb or straining
   filter. Wave action causes the gear to abrade coral reefs, scour the
   sea floor, and damage other essential fish habitat. In a 1997 cleanup
   effort, nearly 20% of the mass of marine debris removed at a Pearl and
   Hermes Atoll site consisted of dead coral (NMFS, 2000). In addition to
   habitat destruction, endangered Hawaiian monk seals and other marine
   species become entangled in marine debris. In the past five years, over
   60 tons of debris have been removed from the reef chain.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

   Abbott, I.A. 1989. Marine algae of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.
   Pacific Science 43(3): 223-233.

   Balazs, G.H. 1976. Green turtle migrations in the Hawaiian Archipelago.
   Biological Conservation 9:125-140.

   Balazs, G.H. 1983. Recovery records of adult green turtles observed or
   originially tagged at French Frigate Shoals, Northwestern Hawaiian
   Islands. U.S. Dept. Commerce., NOAA Technical Memo. NMFS, NOAA-TM
   NMFS-SWFC-36. 42pp.

   Balazs, G.H. 1985. Status and ecology of marine turtles at Johnston
   Atoll. Atoll Resource Bulletin 285: 1-46.

   Brainard, pers comm. Rusty Brainard. "Data from NOW-RAMP survey."
   Correspondence to Marla Steinhoff. Nov. 27, 2000.

   Dizon, A.E. and G.H. Balazs. 1982. Radio telemetry of Hawaiian green
   turtles at their breeding colony. Marine Fish. Review 44(5):13-20.

   Friedlander, A.M. 1996. Assessment of the coral reef resources of
   Hawaii with emphasis on waters of federal jurisdiction. Final Report
   prepared for the Western Pacific Regional Fishery Management Council.
   66p.

   Green, A. 1997. An assessment of the status of the coral reef
   resources, and their patterns of use, in the U.S. Pacific Islands.
   Final report prepared for the Western Pacific Regional Fishery
   Management Council.

   Grigg, R.W. 1982. Darwin Point, a threshold for atoll formation. Coral
   Reefs 1: 29-34.

   Grigg, R.W. 1993. Precious coral fisheries in Hawaii and the U.S.
   Pacific Islands. Marine Fisheries Review 55(2): 50-60.

   Gulko, D. 1998. Hawaiian Coral Reef Ecology. Honolulu: Mutual
   Publishing.

   Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources. The Northwestern
   Hawaiian Islands Exhibit. July 2000. State Government of Hawaii. 28
   Oct. 2000. <http://www.state.hi.us/dlnr/exhibits/nwhi/NWHI_1.htm>

   Johanos, T.C., and J.D. Baker. 2000. The Hawaiian monk seal in the
   Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, 1998. U.S. Department of Commerce, NOAA
   Technical Memorandum, NOAA-TM-NMFS-SWFSC-292, 107pp.

   Maragos J.E., M.P. Crosby and J.W. McManus. 1996. Coral reefs and
   biodiversity: a critical and threatened relationship. Oceanography
   9(1): 83-101.

   Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge Home Page. 2000. U.S. Fish and
   Wildlife Service. 10 Nov. 2000.
   <http://www.r1.fws.gov/midway/intro/default.htm>

   Miller, S.L. and Crosby, M.P. "The Extent and Condition of US Coral
   Reefs." NOAA's State of the Coast Report. 1998. National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration. 4 Nov. 2000.
   <http://state-of-coast.noaa.gov/bulletins/html/crf_08/crf.html>

   National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), 2000. Pacific Sea Turtles
   Research and Recovery. National Marine Fisheries Service, Honolulu Lab.
   6pp.

   National Marine Fisheries Service. November, 2000. "Third Year Reef
   Cleanup Cruise Gathers 25 More Tons of Debris."

   Parrish, J.D., M.W. Callahan, and J.E. Norris. 1985. Fish trophic
   relationships that structure reef communities. Proceedings of the 5th
   International Croal Reef Congress 4: 73-78.

   Randall, J.E., J.L. Earle, R.L. Pyle, J.D. Parrish, and T. Hayes. 1993.
   Annotated checklist of the fishes of Midway Atoll, Northwestern
   Hawaiian Islands. Pacific Science 47: 356-400.

   Threatened and Endangered Animals of the Pacific. 2001. U.S. Fish and
   Wildlife Service. 25 Feb. 2001.
   <http://pacific.fws.gov/pacific/wesa/grnturtindex.html>

   Wells, S. 1988. Coral Reefs of the World, Vol. 1. Cambridge: UNEP and
   IUCN. 329 pp.

   Western Pacific Regional Fishery Management Council (WPRFMC), 2000.
   Draft Fishery Management Plan for Coral Reef Ecosystems of the Western
   Pacific Region.

   (top)
   __________________________________________________________________

      Revised January 27, 2002 by NWHI Web Group
      National Ocean Service | National Oceanic and Atmospheric
      Administration | U.S. Department of Commerce
      http://hawaiireef.noaa.gov/region/region.html
