http://www.childstats.gov/whatisit.asp

              ChildStats.gov What is the Forum

              America's Children 2001
              International Comparisons
              Search Related Resources
              Nurturing Fatherhood report
              Other Forum Publications
              What's new?
              What is the Forum?
              Who are the Forum members?
              Whom can I contact?
              About this site
              Submit questions and comments on Forum activities
   Help
   HOME

What is the Forum?

   Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics

   In 1994, the Chief Statistician at OMB and the leaders of six agencies
   created the Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics.
   The Forum, which now has participants from across government as well as
   partners in private research organizations, fosters coordination,
   collaboration, and integration of collection and reporting of Federal
   data on child and family issues and conditions. The Forum was formally
   established by Executive Order No. 13045 in April 1997. Its members
   work to:
     * Develop priorities for collecting enhanced data on children and
       youth.
     * Improve the reporting and dissemination of information on the
       status of children to the policy community and the general public.

   Every year, as required by the Executive Order, the Forum releases its
   annual monitoring report, America's Children: Key National Indicators
   of Well-Being. This report presents the most important indicators of
   the well-being of the nation's children, based on data currently
   available. The indicators were chosen through a careful examination of
   available data drawn from national surveys and vital records.
   Indicators were chosen that are: easy to understand by broad audiences;
   objectively based on substantial research connecting them to child
   well-being and based on reliance data; balanced so that no single area
   of children's lives dominates the report; measured regularly so that
   they can be updated to show trends over time; and representative of
   large segments of the population rather than one particular group. The
   report also presents a challenge to Federal statistical agencies by
   describing needed indicators for which data are either not available or
   are not of sufficiently high quality.

   Forum mission and description

   2000 Forum Activities

   1998 Forum Activities

   Planning Committee description and membership

   Reporting Committee description and membership

   Data Collection Committee description and membership


   America's Children International Comparisons Search Resources Other
   Forum Publications
   What's New? What is the Forum? Who are the Forum Members? Contacts
   Nurturing Fatherhood Report About this Site Feedback Help Order Reports
   HOME
