http://www.vesid.nysed.gov/lsn/cspdmemo.html

                                              Memo - PDF Version Adobe PDF

                               December, 2001


   To: Superintendents of Big 4 Cities
   District Superintendents
   SETRC PDS and Project Directors
   RSSC Executive Directors and Special Education Staff
   SEQA Supervisors and Regional Associates


   From: Fredric DeMay, Coordinator, Program Development and Support
   Services, Office of Vocational and Educational Services for
   Individuals with Disabilities


   Rebecca Cort, Coordinator, Special Education Quality Assurance (SEQA),
   Office of Vocational and Educational Services for
   Individuals with Disabilities


   James Viola, Regional Education Coordinator, Office of Elementary,
   Middle, Secondary and Continuing

   Subject: Review of Comprehensive System of Personnel Development (CSPD)
   Plans for Targeted Chapter 405 Districts


   The purpose of this memorandum is to provide specific feedback on the
   SED review of the CSPD plans for the 12^1 upstate and Long Island
   districts designated for TARGETED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE under Chapter
   405 of the Laws of 1999. The memorandum is being provided to a wider
   audience than those directly involved with the 12 districts to
   facilitate an understanding of the review process utilized by the
   Department and to prepare stakeholders in the Special Education
   Training and Resource Centers (SETRC) and Regional School Support
   Center (RSSC) networks and SEQA for future reviews of CSPD plans. It
   includes background, an overview of the review process, a summary of
   the results of the review, next steps, and roles and responsibilities
   for SETRC and RSSC Personnel.

   Background

   A March 2001 memorandum entitled "Requirements for Districts Identified
   Under Chapter 405 of the Laws of 1999" identified specific planning
   procedures utilizing the CSPD process for districts identified under
   Chapter 405. Those procedures included a thorough analysis of district
   data, an analysis of root causes, and identification of strategies to
   address Chapter 405 problem areas. The memorandum also stated "The
   Statewide SETRC network is responsible for providing technical
   assistance to local districts on the CSPD planning process and can
   provide districts with the appropriate forms and procedures."

   Review Process
   (see attached: CSPD Plan Review – Targeted Districts)

   The review process developed by VESID is based on CSPD quality
   indicators that have been used by SETRC with local districts over the
   past several years. Generally, the quality indicators look for evidence
   in the following five areas:

    1. The district analyzed data and identified problem areas,
    2. The district engaged in root cause discussions,
    3. The district developed long-term and annual goals, and strategies
       based on data analysis and root cause discussions,
    4. District implementation of the CSPD plan will result in addressing
       the identified problem areas, and
    5. The district described how progress will be monitored and evaluated
       throughout the year.

   Each CSPD plan was individually reviewed and scored by SETRC, RSSC, and
   SEQA personnel at the local level. The local team developed a single
   consensus score which was forwarded to the Department’s Chapter 405
   workgroup. The plans were reviewed and individually scored by at least
   three VESID Chapter 405 workgroup staff, who also met as a team to
   compare notes and to consider the recommendations of the local review
   group. The team agreed on a consensus score for each section of the
   plan and developed a recommendation for "acceptance" or "modifications
   required." Individual letters are being developed for the
   Superintendent of each targeted district summarizing the outcome of the
   review and required next steps. District Superintendents, SETRC and
   RSSCs will be copied on those letters. (See attached CSPD Plan Summary
   Review Form)

   Summary of Results

   The quality of the CSPD plans varied significantly. Of the twelve
   districts, two plans were scored in the 60’s (out of a maximum of 68)
   and were accepted. The remaining 10 plans scored in a range from 0 to
   50 and will require modifications. The two plans that were accepted, as
   well as several of the plans that will require minor modifications,
   very clearly indicated that district personnel understood both the
   intent and spirit of the CSPD process in addressing Chapter 405 problem
   areas. We congratulate the SETRC and RSSC personnel who assisted those
   districts. The other plans that scored much lower indicated a lack of
   understanding of the intent of the CSPD process that will need to be
   addressed in order for the district to resolve its Chapter 405 issues.
   We understand that numerous factors contribute to successful planning
   and encourage SETRC and RSSC personnel to be creative and flexible in
   guiding these districts.

   Next Steps
     * Districts requiring modifications will be required to submit
       revised plans by February 1, 2002 to the SETRC, RSSC, Regional
       Associate, and Chapter 405 workgroup.
     * Local review and scoring of the plans by SETRC, RSSC and SEQA
       personnel must occur prior to February 15. The same process
       described above and the same forms will be used.
     * The Chapter 405 workgroups (SED Review Teams) will meet on February
       15 to review the local recommendations to determine if plans are
       accepted, need further modification, or if corrective action is
       required.

   Roles and Responsibilities for SETRC, RSSC and SEQA Personnel
     * A Targeted Technical Assistance district automatically becomes a
       priority district for both SETRC and the RSSC. SETRC and the RSSC
       should be actively involved with ongoing implementation of the
       district’s CSPD and report on activities and progress through the
       regular reporting procedures.
     * For districts requiring modifications to the CSPD plan, SETRC is
       charged with lead responsibility for coordinating planning efforts
       with the RSSC and SEQA to ensure that the plan is developed,
       individually reviewed, and team reviewed prior to February 15.
       Submit one copy of the joint review form to the Chapter 405
       workgroup, attention Eileen Borden (fax: 518-474-2219).
     * It is strongly recommended that SETRC, RSSC and SEQA personnel
       utilize the same review process and scoring procedure for the CSPD
       plans of districts designated as Regional Technical Assistance to
       ensure quality of effort and likelihood of implementation. Feedback
       to those districts should utilize the same summary form to provide
       comments on the areas that require modification. Please note that
       the summary review form does not include scoring recorded on the
       review form and any scoring should only be used as a guide for the
       review team and not for dissemination. The summary review form
       should be from the local team with a copy to the District
       Superintendent and the Chapter 405 workgroup.


   We appreciate your continuing efforts on behalf of this initiative and
   look forward to the impact of those efforts on our students.

   Attachment

   Memo to Upstate Supervisors and RAs

   CSPD Plan Review - Targeted Districts

   CSPD Plan Summary Review Form

   BACK
