http://cac.ca.gov/secondary_page/programs/Descriptions/poetlaurate.htm

   Poet Laureate of California



   Introduction

   The California Arts Council is designated by Assembly Bill 113 (Pavley)
   as the agency to recommend a suitable person to hold the honorary
   office of Poet Laureate of California. This Poet would serve at the
   appointment of the Governor for a period of four years beginning July
   2002.
   The bill stipulates that the Poet Laureate would provide a minimum of
   six public readings during his or her two year- term endeavoring to
   ensure that people in all geographic regions of the state have
   reasonable access to at least one reading during the course of the
   term. The poet shall also undertake a specific project that shall last
   through the term, agreed to by the California Poet Laureate and the
   council. One of the goals of the project must be to bring the poetic
   arts to Californians and to California students who might otherwise
   have little opportunity to be exposed to poetry. The California Poet
   Laureate may, and is encouraged to, coordinate his or her project with
   any similar project being undertaken by the current United States' Poet
   Laureate. Any other reasonable activities as agreed to mutually by the
   California Poet Laureate and the council. It is hoped that the poet
   shall advocate and educate civic and state leaders about the values and
   varieties of poetry that make up the great wealth of creative
   expression throughout our state.


   Nomination Instructions

   The Poet Laureate nominations may come from qualified people in the
   field of Literature and should be directed to:
   Ray Tatar
   Poet Laureate Program
   California Arts Council
   1300 I Street, Suite 930
   Sacramento, CA, 95814

   Each nomination must contain:
    1. A cover letter from the Nominator describing the qualifications of
       the nominator or nominating organization followed by:
    2. the name and a short biography of the poet to be nominated.
       (Maximum of ½ page.) A competitive biography would include a
       summary of significant awards and published works;
    3. a summary of no more than ½ page indicating why the nominator
       considers the work of the poet should be deemed of the highest
       quality and most representative of the State of California. (Please
       review below the Poet Laureate Program description for criteria
       before writing this paragraph);
    4. contact information for the nominated poet; followed by,
    5. a short paragraph indicating that the nominator has contacted the
       nominated poet and that the poet has reviewed the job description
       described below and agrees to the nomination.

   Attached to the nomination letter must be three poems typed on 8½" x
   11" paper single-sided and one (1) 8" x 10" black and white photo of
   the poet. No materials will be returned.

   DEADLINE: The Nominating Letter and attachments must be submitted to
   the California Arts Council postmarked no later than Febuary 19, 2002.
   Poet Laureate
   PROGRAM TIMELINE

   December / January
     * Advertise & conduct a search for and review a slate of nominees
       from a statewide committee and open nominations from the field;
     * Advertise & conduct a search for and review a slate of nominees
       from a statewide committee as well as open nominations from the
       field.

   February/March
     * Nomination Review Committee screens nominations and presents the
       panel with 25 nominations.
     * Conduct a final review panel and to the Council three names from
       the list of nominees.
     * Present the names to the Governor.
     * Nominated poet approved; Appointment prepared.

   April
     * Finalize program activities for the Poet Laureate with the
       appointee for the period of his/her service;
     * Publicize the final choice.
     * Investiture of the Poet Laureate.

   July 1st To June 30 2004
     * California Poet Laureate Program


   CALIFORNIA STATE POET LAUREATE PANEL:

   DUTIES: To review the recommended nominations of the Nominating
   Committee and rank them for the California Arts Council. Council staff
   will forward the top three (3) consenting nominees to the Governors'
   office

   COMPOSITION: This panel shall be comprised of no more than three (3)
   representatives of the poetry community chosen from the Literature
   panelist pool and presented to the Council at its' regularly scheduled
   public meeting for approval.

   POET LAUREATE REVIEW CRITERIA

   CRITERIA: Nominations shall be limited to current California residents,
   who have been in residence 10 years or more.

   Each nominee must be:
     * A poet who is generally recognized for excellence of their work,
       and;
     * Have works of poetry currently in print and;
     * Agree to serve for a period of two years beginning (July 1, 2002);

   And is a person who:
     * Believes that the position is a way to introduce the enjoyment and
       comfort of good poetry as a right of every Californian and will;
     * Work with the California Arts Council and/or its' designees to
       coordinate activities during the period of appointment in order to
     * Advocate and educate civic and state leaders about the values and
       varieties of poetry that make up the great wealth of creative
       expression throughout our state;
     * Inspire in youth the importance of a personal voice through the
       written word and the advancement of human potential through
       language development and
     * Seek to make poetry a way in which the people of California can
       tell their stories and promote a climate of free expression as a
       basic value to strong democracies.

   2001-2003 California State Poet Laureate Nomination Review Committee:
     * California Center for the Book, (UCLA) Natalie Cole
     * California Council for the Humanities, James Quay, Director
     * California Poetry Anthology, Jack Hicks, Editor
     * California State Poetry Society, California Quarterly, Julian
       Palley, President
     * California Poets in the Schools, Mary Vradelis, Director
     * Beyond Baroque Literary Arts Center, Fred Dewey, Executive Director
     * Border Voices Poetry, Jack Webb, Director
     * Poets & Writers, Ryan Tranquilla, Director, California Programs
     * Poetry Center /American Poetry Archive (SFSU) Steve Dickison
     * Poetry Flash, Joyce Jenkins, Editor in Chief
     * Sacramento Poetry Center, Luke Breit, Chair
     * Small Press Distribution, Beverly Greene, Executive Director
     * State Library, Dr. Kevin Starr, Director

                       ©California Arts Council 2001
