http://buildings.lbl.gov/cec/intro.html

   Background / Motivation
   [005.jpg]

   Commercial buildings account for about one-third of all California
   electricity consumption, at a cost of about $9 billion per year.
   California’s aggressive efforts have resulted in new buildings designed
   to use less energy than those constructed 20 years ago, but the savings
   are still well below technical and economic potentials. The crisis of
   summer peak electrical loads in California in 2000 and previous years
   indicates that solutions are urgently needed. Energy efficiency
   strategies for commercial buildings provide significant strategies to
   address the need.


   Objectives / Impacts

   The broad program goals are to:
     * Develop and deploy energy saving technologies, strategies, and
       techniques;
     * Improve the design, commissioning, and operating practices of the
       commercial building sector;
     * Improve the health, comfort, and performance of occupants;
     * Adhere to sound economic investment practices.

   The program goal is to produce technologies and tools that will assist
   the California commercial sector reduce energy use 22% by the year
   2015.

   These energy savings would amount to approximately 24,000 GWh
   (gigawatt-hours) per year and would save ratepayers $2.4 billion per
   year. Additionally, the energy savings would benefit the overall
   California environment by reducing carbon emissions 2,260,000 tons per
   year.

   Another way to visualize the savings is to use equivalent reduction in
   automobile pollution. A typical 25-mpg automobile (assuming 400 gal/yr)
   adds about one ton of carbon to the atmosphere each year. This means
   that a 22% energy reduction in commercial buildings would be equivalent
   to removing the carbon emissions from more than two million automobiles
   in California per year!


   Program Organization [038.jpg]

   A new three-year public-private research initiative, which will target
   substantial reductions in the energy costs of commercial buildings, has
   been launched under the leadership of scientists from the U.S.
   Department of Energy’s Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkeley National
   Laboratory. More than $13 million in research, development,
   demonstration and deployment funding has been committed by the
   California Energy Commission through its Public Interest Energy
   Research Program, along with the Department of Energy, Pacific Gas &
   Electric and private sector partners, who will provide in-kind
   assistance. A team of 13 public and private sector organizations will
   carry out the many tasks of the program.

   The High Performance Commercial Building Systems Program has been
   structured with six program elements collectively creating a
   comprehensive Research, Development and Demonstration program that
   addresses all major aspects of commercial building performance.

   Program Administration

   The Program Administration element coordinates and integrates the five
   technical program elements of the High Performance Commercial Building
   Systems program.

   Life-Cycle Tools

   Integrated building performance management systems.

   Includes software tools, analysis techniques, data definitions and
   schema (e.g. performance metrics), data schema for interoperability,
   and benchmark databases for evaluating commercial building energy use
   and other performance issues.

   Lighting, Envelope & Daylighting

   Hardware and software to control and monitor conventional lighting and
   envelope devices for comfort and energy efficiency.

   Control systems that operate on a low-cost building communications
   network allow for both occupant-based and building-wide control of
   lighting and dynamic envelope elements (e.g. electrochromic glazings).

   Low Energy Cooling

   Strategies to reduce the energy consumption and peak demand associated
   with the cooling of commercial buildings in California climates.

   Activities in this area focus on novel space conditioning systems (e.g.
   displacement ventilation, evaporative cooling, chilled ceilings);
   demonstration of proven low-energy cooling technologies; new tools for
   designing, commissioning and operating systems.

   Integrated Commissioning and Diagnostics

   Includes procedures for diagnosing problems that prevent buildings from
   operating at maximum efficiency; case studies to facilitate
   commissioning as standard practice; advanced commissioning, including
   supporting software and sensors.

   Indoor Environment Quality

   Addresses HVAC and indoor pollutant source control technologies;
   information that assists state agencies and utilities develop market
   programs for energy-efficient relocatable classrooms (RCs);
   demonstration of improved indoor environments in RCs and documentation
   of impacts on student health and learning.
