http://www.spc.ncep.noaa.gov/faq/

             Storm Prediction Center
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


   Elsewhere
   in the SPC:

   Home
   About the SPC
   Forecast Products
     Watches
     Mesoscale Discussions
     Convective Outlooks
     Fire Weather Forecasts
     Experimental Products
   Watch/Warning Display
   Climatological Data
   Experimental Techniques
   Publications
   FAQ
   Cool Images
   Staff
   Feedback
   Product Archive
   Links
   Current Weather
   Disclaimer
   Search
   Quick Search ________
   NOAA
   NWS


     The following is a list of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for the
   Storm Prediction Center. If you are looking for a specific topic please
     see if it has already been answered here before emailing us. If it
    hasn't then please email us at feedback@spc.noaa.gov. If you haven't
     already done so, try using our search engine to locate what you are
                                looking for.

       Roger Edwards has also created a separate FAQ devoted solely to
                                 tornadoes.

                              1. SPC questions
                  1.1 What is the Storm Prediction Center?
                        1.2 When was the SPC formed?
              1.3 Where is the Storm Prediction Center located?
       1.4 Is the SPC a part of the National Severe Storms Laboratory?
         1.5 How can the media or the public tour or visit the SPC?

                             2. Watch Questions
             2.1 What is a Severe Thunderstorm or Tornado Watch?
                2.2 How many watches do you issue in a year?
                         2.3 Do you issue warnings?
          2.4 What's the difference between a watch and a warning?
       2.5 Does the SPC issue all severe weather watches and warnings?
            2.6 Why are watches not issued for all severe storms?
   2.7 I noticed the wording "THIS IS A PARTICULARLY DANGEROUS SITUATION"
                in some of your watches. What does this mean?
             2.8 Do you forecast hurricanes and tropical storms?
     2.9 Where can I get a list of the points used for watch locations?

                            3. Outlook Questions
    3.1 I don't understand the time that you use on your products. Is it
                  some type of military time or something?
      3.2 Where can I find a list of the abbreviations and contractions
                   that I see in the Convective Outlooks?
      3.3 What do the Slight, Moderate, and High risk categories in the
                          Convective Outlook mean?
       3.4 Where can I get a list of the points used for outlook area
                                definitions?

                            4. Weather Questions
      4.1 How does the National Weather Service define severe weather?
   4.2 How does the National Weather Service define a severe thunderstorm?
           4.3 What is organized severe weather and why is it more
                important than non-organized severe weather?
          4.4 What environmental parameters are most often observed
                       with organized severe weather?
   4.5 Can you tell me what the weather will be like on XXX date??????? or
                         Is it going to rain today?
              4.6 Do you have any information about lightning?
        4.7 Do you have any general information about thunderstorms?
   4.8 Can you give me details on a particular hailstorm, thunderstorm or
    tornado which hit on a certain date? Or can you tell me about hail or
            wind damage for the last 20 years in a certain place?

                            5. Tornado Questions
                           5.1 What is a tornado?
               5.2 How many violent tornadoes occur in a year?
                        5.3 What is the Fujita scale?
                   5.4 How many tornadoes occur in a year?

                             6. Other Questions
     6.1 Why do the probability values on the experimental probabilistic
                   outlooks always appear relatively low?
   6.2 Where can I get information on building a safe room in my house to
                   help protect our family from tornadoes?
      6.3 What is NOAA Weather Radio and how can it help to protect me?
          6.4 How does someone become a meteorologist (at the SPC)?
            6.5 How can I get a job at the SPC or in meteorology?
             6.6 How can I become a professional storm chaser?
                 __________________________________________

                           1. SPC questions (top)

                  1.1 What is the Storm Prediction Center?
     The Storm Prediction Center (SPC) is one of 7 National Centers for
   Environmental Prediction. Our mission is to provide timely and accurate
    forecasts and watches for severe thunderstorms and tornadoes over the
   contiguous United States. The SPC also monitors heavy rain, heavy snow,
    and fire weather events across the U.S. and issues specific products
                             for those hazards.

                        1.2 When was the SPC formed?
      The Storm Prediction Center, formerly known as SELS (Severe Local
    Storms) Unit became an organization in 1953. SELS became the National
     Severe Storms Forecast Center in 1966. The name was changed to the
                      Storm Prediction Center in 1995.

              1.3 Where is the Storm Prediction Center located?
                     We are located in Norman, Oklahoma

       1.4 Is the SPC a part of the National Severe Storms Laboratory?
   The SPC is not a part of the National Severe Storms Laboratory (NSSL).
              We currently share a building with them however.

        1.5 How can the media, or the public, tour or visit the SPC?

                                PUBLIC TOURS

   Individual and group tours of the Storm Prediction Center are available
      by appointment. For more information, e-mail Peggy Stogsdill (SPC
    Administrative Officer) at peggy.stogsdill@noaa.gov, telephone/voice
                             mail (405)579-0707.

                               MEDIA REQUESTS
   Interviews with SPC staff, TV shoots and photo shoots by members of the
         media should be arranged first through Peggy Stogsdill (SPC
       Administrative Officer) at peggy.stogsdill@noaa.gov, telephone
    (405)579-0707. If Peggy is unavailable, the backup contact point for
          urgent media inquiries is David Imy (OGB Branch Chief) at
      dave.imy@noaa.gov, telephone/voice mail (405)579-0703. FAX (405)
                                  579-0700

   Note that we may occasionally be unable to schedule tours when staffing
    could be insufficient to handle them -- especially during peak severe
   storm months of April-June. These may have to be limited, postponed or
             canceled in the event of severe weather outbreaks.

                          2. Watch Questions (top)

             2.1 What is a Severe Thunderstorm or Tornado Watch?
      A Severe Thunderstorm Watch outlines an area where hail 3/4 inch
   diameter or larger hail and damaging thunderstorm winds are expected to
    occur during a three to six hour period. A Tornado Watch includes the
     large hail and damaging wind threats, as well as the possibility of
   multiple tornadoes. Typical watches cover about 25,000 square miles, or
                        about half the size of Iowa.

                2.2 How many watches do you issue in a year?
            The SPC issues approximately 1000 watches each year.

                         2.3 Do you issue warnings?
   The SPC only issues watches. Your local National Weather Service office
      issues warnings for your area. Try this page to help you find the
                           nearest office to you.

          2.4 What's the difference between a watch and a warning?
     A watch means severe weather is possible during the next few hours,
     while a warning means that severe weather has been observed, or is
                               expected soon.

       2.5 Does the SPC issue all severe weather watches and warnings?
   The SPC issues all Severe Thunderstorm Watches and Tornado Watches. All
               warnings are issued locally (see Question 2.3)

      2.6 Why are watches not issued for all severe storms? Many severe
     thunderstorms affect only a small area for a short period of time,
     making watches impractical. Watches are issued primarily for areas
     where significant severe weather is possible, or the severe weather
                threat is expected to persist for many hours.

   2.7 I noticed the wording "THIS IS A PARTICULARLY DANGEROUS SITUATION"
                in some of your watches. What does this mean?
       The "particularly dangerous situation" wording is used in rare
   situations when long-lived, strong and violent tornadoes are possible.
    This enhanced wording may also accompany severe thunderstorm watches
                     for intense convective wind storms.

             2.8 Do you forecast hurricanes and tropical storms?
      We do not forecast tropical weather. That is done by the Tropical
                             Prediction Center.

     2.9 Where can I get a list of the points used for watch locations?
     You can find a table containing these locations (sorted by LAT/LON)
                    here or (sorted by Station IDs) here.

                         3. Outlook Questions (top)

    3.1 I don't understand the time that you use on your products. Is it
                  some type of military time or something?
    The time you see on our products is Universal Coordinated Time (also
       known as Greenwich Mean Time). Please visit this link for more
                           information about UTC.

   3.2 Where can I find a list of the abbreviations and contractions that
                      I see in the Convective Outlooks?
    We have a page devoted to the abbreviations and acronyms that you'll
                            find in our products.

      3.3 What do the Slight, Moderate, and High risk categories in the
                          Convective Outlook mean?
   We have a complete discussion of the risk levels in our description of
                              the SPC products.

       3.4 Where can I get a list of the points used for outlook area
                                definitions?
     You can find a table containing these locations (sorted by LAT/LON)
                     here (sorted by Station IDs) here.

                         4. Weather Questions (top)

      4.1 How does the National Weather Service define severe weather?
      There are many forms of hazardous, or severe weather. The primary
     mission of the National Weather Service is to provide forecasts and
    warnings for the protection of life and property. Forecasts can range
      from the climate and seasonal outlooks for agricultural interests
    provided by the Climate Prediction Center (www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov), to
   the daily county forecasts for the public issued by local NWS offices.
     The NWS issues warnings for heavy snow, freezing rain, high winds,
     flash flooding, river flooding, thunderstorms, tornadoes, tropical
     storms, and hurricanes. In a broad sense, these are all defined as
     severe weather as any of them can and do pose a threat to life and
                                  property.

       4.2 How does the National Weather Service (NWS) define a severe
                                thunderstorm?
    The term severe thunderstorm refers to a thunderstorm producing hail
   that is dime size, 0.75 inches in diameter or larger, and/or wind gusts
      to 58 mph or greater, and/or a tornado. Although lightning can be
       deadly it is not a criterion for what the NWS defines as severe
      thunderstorm since any ordinary thunderstorm can produce a lot of
     lightning. Also, excessive rainfall may lead to flash flooding, but
          heavy rain is not a criterion for a severe thunderstorm.

   4.3 What is organized severe weather and why is it more important than
                        non-organized severe weather?
        To some degree, all thunderstorms are organized. We refer to
   "organized" severe storms as those which persist for several hours and
     we are able to forecast consistently. The most long-lived, intense
        tornadoes and largest hail are usually produced by supercell
      thunderstorms, while the most serious convective wind storms are
   produced by bow echoes. The most serious severe storms tend to form in
      areas where the vertical wind shear is relatively strong and has
   particular characteristics, while shorter-lived storms are most common
                      when vertical wind shear is weak.

       4.4 What environmental parameters are most often observed with
                          organized severe weather?
       In general, severe thunderstorms form in areas where moisture,
     instability, and lift are present. Additionally, long-lived severe
     thunderstorms are often associated with strong vertical wind shear
   (e.g., winds that change direction and increase in speed with height).
     Unfortunately, thunderstorm initiation is not well-understood, and
     weather observations are too widely spaced to detect all important
                                  features.

   4.5 Can you tell me what the weather will be like on XXX date? or Is it
                            going to rain today?
     We do not have the time or resources to service individual requests
                like this. Please try your local NWS office.

              4.6 Do you have any information about lightning?
      The National Severe Storms Lab. has a great FAQ about lightning.

        4.7 Do you have any general information about thunderstorms?
               NSSL also has a great FAQ about thunderstorms.

   4.8 Can you give me details on a particular hailstorm, thunderstorm or
    tornado which hit on a certain date? Or can you tell me about hail or
           wind damage for the last 20 years in a cerrtain place?
     No. We don't have the resources or manpower to fulfill every local
   weather information request we receive. However, the National Climatic
   Data Center (http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov) does provide local weather event
     information -- both in an interactive online website and through a
                       publication called Storm Data.

                         5. Tornado Questions (top)

                           5.1 What is a tornado?
       This is the first question in the tornado FAQ. Please read the
                             information there.

               5.2 How many violent tornadoes occur in a year?
                    Please see Question ? in tornado FAQ

                   5.3 What is the Fujita scale (F-scale)?
                Please see the discussion in the tornado FAQ

                   5.4 How many tornadoes occur in a year?
            Please see the Climatology section in the tornado FAQ

                          6. Other Questions (top)

     6.1 Why do the probability values on the experimental probabilistic
                                  outlooks
                        always appear relatively low?
   The probability values represent the chance of severe weather within 25
   miles of a point, which is about the size of a major metropolitan area.
   Though severe storms tend to receive a large amount of media coverage,
    severe weather is rare at any one location. A 25% chance of a tornado
     within 25 miles of a point represents a significant severe weather
    threat. Think of how often tornadoes occur close to you on days with
   thunderstorms, and the relatively low probabilities begin to make more
                                   sense!

         6.2 Where can I get information on building a safe room in
             my house to help protect our family from tornadoes?
    A structural engineer or contractor can help you plan a safe room or
   shelter for your home.Other tips on tornado safety are also provided by
                  the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

      6.3 What is NOAA Weather Radio and how can it help to protect me?
   NOAA Weather Radio is a broadcast system which is available 24 hours a
        day that continuously plays the latest warnings, watches, and
   forecasts. These radio broadcasts can save your life in severe weather
     situations. For further information please refer to the this page.

   6.4 How does someone become a meteorologist (at the SPC or elsewhere)?
   Usually, a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in Meteorology is required
      to enter the field and work as a forecaster. Some course work and
   experience can also be gained in the military, especially the Navy and
   Air Force. Many forecasters continue on to graduate school and acquire
    advanced degrees (M.S. and PhD) in meteorology, atmospheric science,
       mathematics, and computer science. Additional infomation about
            meteorology education can be found on our Links page.

            6.5 How can I get a job at the SPC or in meteorology?
              See http://www.nssl.noaa.gov/faq/metcareer.shtml

              6.6 How can I become a professional storm chaser?
    Very few people make a living as storm chasers. The vast majority of
   people who chase storms do so as a hobby in their spare time, often at
       a cost of hundreds or thousands of dollars a year. To become a
   professional storm chaser, you must be able to consistently acquire and
     successfully market your storm photographs and video. You may also
      develop enough skill to have others pay to ride along with you on
    chases. However, it takes many years to become a safe and successful
    storm chaser, and the market for storm chase pictures/video and tours
   is quite competitive. The best way to approach storm chasing is to ride
      along with more experienced chasers for a few years, and practice
               severe storm forecasting at every opportunity.

              If you could not find an answer to your question
                then please email us at feedback@spc.noaa.gov

    Acknowledgments:Thanks to Rich Thompson and Greg Carbin for answering
    many of the questions. Thanks also to Roger Edwards for answering so
                  many questions personally through email.
                                  Top/Home
