http://www.geo.nsf.gov/geo/about/directhome.htm

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Geo Home Geoscience Staff Site Map and Search Contact Webmasters
   www.nsf.gov
   Atmospheric Sciences Earth Sciences Ocean Sciences

   Directorate Activities

   About the Directorate About the Directorate
   Overview
   Vacancies
   Directorate Activities Directorate Activities
   Advisory Committee
   Interdisciplinary
   International
   Initiatives
   Budget
   Initiatives Initiatives
   GEO 2000
   GEO DIversity
   GEO ITR
   GEO NANOTECHNOLOGY
   International
   GEO Education
   Funding Funding
   Opportunities
   Proposal Information
   Dates and Deadlines
   Awards Search
   What is Geoscience? What is Geoscience?
   Important Announcments Important Announcements
   Research Highlights Research Highlights
   Share Research Results

     ADVISORY COMMITTEE
   The Advisory Committee for the Directorate for Geosciences (GEO)
   provides guidance and input in broad areas such as (a) how GEO's
   mission, programs, and goals can best serve the scientific community,
   (b) how GEO can promote quality education at all levels in the
   geosciences as well as increase diversity of the geosciences workforce,
   and (c) setting priorites in terms of critical investment areass in
   geosciences research.

   AC/GEO meets twice a year. Members represent a cross-section of
   geosciences with representatives from many different subdisciplines
   within the field; a cross section of institutions spanning academia and
   the public and private sectors, broad geographic representation; and
   balanced representation of women and underrepresented minorities.

   See Advisory information for a complete list of the members and meeting
   minutes. Biodiversity

     INTERDISCIPLINARY AND FOCUSSED RESEARCH PROGRAMS
   In addition to research programs in the atmospheric, earth, and ocean
   sciences, the Directorate supports a number of crosscutting and
   interdisciplinary programs:

   •  Global Change Research
   •  Biocomplexity in the Environment
   •  Programs to support Geosciences Education
   •  Opportunities for Enhancing Diversity in the Geosciences

     INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES
   Because the nature of geosciences research is global, GEO supports
   international collaborations and partnerships. In addition to research,
   many organizations supported by GEO help facilitate the open exchange
   of data, assist in the movement of scientific equipment across borders,
   and provide a fora for the exchange of ideas as well as a means for
   international planning and cost-sharing. More information is available
   for International Activities.

     INITIATIVES (PLANNING ACTIVITIES)
   To determine how to best advance scientific knowledge, the Directorate
   for Geosciences engages in a long-range planning process to evaluate
   opportunities and needs for geoscience research, infrastructure, and
   education.

   •  GEO 2000: a planning effort to develop a comprehensive view of the
   sciences for planet Earth and the scope of programs and activities that
   GEO should address during the period 2001 to 2010.

   •  GEO Facilities Plan: a planning effort for both the development of
   new and innovative facility capabilities, and the maintenance and
   enhancement of existing systems from FY 1999 through FY 2003.

   •  Forum on Emerging Opportunities: The NSF and Geosciences Directorate
   are interested in hearing from the research community especially
   regarding ideas on emerging opportunities for significant advances in
   disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields of exploration, innovative
   modes of supporting research, and new approaches to education and
   training.

     GEO BUDGET
   Budget Requests:

   •  FY 2002 Budget Request for Geoscience Activities
   •  FY 2001 Budget Request for Geoscience Activities
   •  FY 2000 Budget Request for Geoscience Activities
   •  FY 1999 Budget Request for Geoscience Activities
   •  Funding History for the Geosciences at NSF: FY 1985-FY 2002
   (request)

   FY 2002 GEOSciences Budget Request:
   The Geosciences (GEO) Activity supports research in the atmospheric,
   earth, and ocean sciences. Basic research in the geosciences advances
   our scientific knowledge of the Earth and advances our ability to
   predict natural phenomena of economic and human significance, such as
   climate change, earthquakes, weather, fish-stock fluctuations, and
   disruptive events in the solar-terrestrial environment. The FY 2002
   Request of $558.54 million, a 0.6 percent decrease from FY 2001, will
   support the operation and enhancement of national user facilities as
   well as fundamental research across the geosciences, including emphases
   on the U.S. Weather Research Program and National Space Weather
   Program; the U.S. Global Change Research Program; the Biocomplexity in
   the Environment priority area, and research on the key physical,
   chemical and geologic cycles within the Earth System.

     INCREASING AWARD SIZE AND DURATION IN GEO

   As stated in the National Science Foundation's Government Performance
   and Results Act (GPRA) Strategic Plan for Fiscal Year 2001- 2006, one
   of the implementation strategies for operating a credible, efficient
   merit review system is to "reduce the burden on proposers and reviewers
   while maintaining the quality of decision processes, by increasing
   award size and duration."...MORE...

  NSF Celebrating 50 Years Directorate for Geosciences, NSF
  4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 705N, Arlington, Virginia, 22230
  Tel: 703.292.8500 | FAX: 703.292.9042                           Last Modified:
                                                              Jan 7, 2002
                                                              NSF Privacy Policy
