http://www.naturalinquirer.usda.gov/natinqteachercomments.htm

                         Natural Inquirer Home Page


                        Natural Inquirer Search Page


                         Natural Inquirer Order Form


                            [researchdevlogo.gif]

                                [blesepa.gif]

        What the Educators Have to Say About the Natural Inquirer...

               "Innovative way to teach science to youngsters"

             -39 year veteran teacher of high school and college

   "Provides students with an opportunity to feel like "real scientists""

                         -Special Education Teacher

    "When I was first given this journal to review, I thought, "Oh, just
     another science magazine with content articles about science topics
   unrelated to my curriculum!"  I was wrong!  This journal is perfect for
       use and practice with process skills and the scientific method.
    (Students need this practice on a regular basis.)  I also applaud you
     on using the scientist's perspective.  Students should really get a
                feel for what it is like to be a scientist."

                   -20 veteran teacher of Science and Math

       "I think the publication of the Natural Inquirer is excellent."

                       - Methow Valley Ranger District

   "I want to congratulate you on your publication, the Natural Inquirer.
   It is interesting, readable, creative - just the kind of material that
   will engage the young reader.  I have heard so often that research has
     important stories to tell, but that those stories do not reach the
   public. This is one avenue -  a way to excite young people in our work
            and in the mission of conserving natural resources."

              -Public and Government Relations, Northern Region

   "I just finished reading the Fall 1999 edition of the Natural Inquirer
   and wanted to thank you for such a wonderful publication.  It is indeed
     a breath of fresh air!!!   My compliments to you and your staff for
          creating such a fabulous natural science education tool."

                         -Murphy Lake Ranger Station
