http://www-did.lbl.gov/disclaimer.html

                                 Disclaimer

   The Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory is operated by the University
   of California for the United States Department of Energy. As such the
   following rules apply:

   COPYRIGHT STATUS: LBNL authored documents are sponsored by the U.S.
   Department of Energy under Contract DE-AC03-76SF00098. Accordingly, the
   U.S. Government retains a nonexclusive, royalty-free license to publish
   or reproduce these documents, or allow others to do so, for U.S.
   Government purposes. These documents may be freely distributed and used
   for non-commercial, scientific and educational purposes. Commercial use
   of the documents available from this server may be protected under the
   U.S. and Foreign Copyright Laws. Individual documents on this server
   may have different copyright conditions, and that will be noted in
   those documents.

   DISCLAIMER OF ENDORSEMENT: Reference herein to any specific commercial
   products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer,
   or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
   recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or the
   University of California. The views and opinions of authors expressed
   herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
   Government or the University of California, and shall not be used for
   advertising or product endorsement purposes.

   DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY: With respect to documents available from this
   server, neither the United States Government nor the University of
   California nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or
   implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
   particular purpose, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility
   for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information,
   apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use
   would not infringe privately owned rights.

   NOTICE: Information from this server resides on a computer system
   funded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The use of this system may be
   monitored for computer security purposes. Any unauthorized access to
   this system is prohibited and is subject to criminal and civil
   penalties under Federal Laws including but not limited to Public Laws
   83-703 and 99-474.
