http://www.foia.ucia.gov/special_collections.asp

   Central Intelligence Agency, Director of Central Intelligence Skip main
    CIA navigation. Targets Freedom of Information Act main navigation.

   CIA Home | Notices | Privacy | Security | Contact Us | Site Map | Index
                                  | Search

                                      .
        Electronic Reading Room (Freedom of Information Act) heading,
   superimposed on photo of American flag with the word Declassified over
                                    that
       Field of 5 stars Document search. Click for more search options
                        Click to submit search query.


                     Skip FOIA main navigation. Overview
                     How to file a FOIA Request
                     How to file a Privacy Act Request
                     Frequently Requested Records
                     Annual Reports
                     Your Rights
                     Special Collections

                             Special Collections

    Declassified National Intelligence Estimates on the Soviet Union and
                           International Communism

    Declassified Intelligence estimates on Selected Free World Countries

   Declassified Intelligence Analyses on the Former Soviet Union Produced
                    by CIA's Directorate of Intelligence

                         How to access the documents

      An important part of CIA's ongoing effort to be more open and to
    provide for more public accountability has been a recognition of the
   importance of declassifying historically significant Agency documents.
    The process of opening up the Agency's historical record began in the
    1980s when then Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) William Casey
    authorized the declassification and transfer of nine million pages of
     OSS records to the National Archives and established the Historical
                               Review Program.

    A more formal Historical Review Program (HRP) was established by DCI
         Robert Gates in 1992. Reaffirming the principle that the US
    government's records should be open to the public, the program called
   for significant historical information to be made available unless such
    release could cause damage to the national security interests of the
    United States. Subsequent DCIs R. James Woolsey and John Deutch, and
   current Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet have supported a
                vigorous historical declassification program.

       CIA's Historical Review Program, with the exception of several
     statutorily mandated requirements, is a voluntary declassification
     program that focuses on records of historical value. The program's
   managers rely on the advice and guidance of the Agency's History Staff,
   the DCI's Historical Review Panel, and the general public in selecting
        topics for review. Under guidelines laid out for the program,
    historical records are released except in instances where disclosure
     would damage national security-that is, for example, where it would
         reveal sensitive foreign government information or identify
   intelligence sources and methods that are currently in use and that are
      subject to denial and/or deception. The Historical Review Program
    coordinates the review of the documents with CIA components and other
    US Government entities before final declassification action is taken
         and the documents are transferred to the National Archives.

       Two projects currently in progress in HRP involve the review of
    National Intelligence Estimates (NIEs) on the former Soviet Union and
   international communism and intelligence analyses on the former Soviet
     Union published by the CIA's Directorate of Intelligence. For more
     information on these specific collections, click on the appropriate
                               summary title.


                     Photograph of a Bald Eagle's head.

               Footer image, showing portion of American flag.

                             Privacy & Security
