http://turners.nichd.nih.gov/TSS_flyer.pdf

   A NEW NIH STUDY FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS WITH TURNER SYNDROME This new study
   aims for an in depth and comprehensive characterization of clinical
   features of Turner syndrome and identification of the specific genes
   linked to each feature. This approach is designed to benefit those with
   Turner syndrome by improved diagnosis and recognition of potential and
   existing medical problems, resulting in improved preventative and
   therapeutic medical care. Adult women with Turner's have a
   significantly higher risk for developing high blood pressure, diabetes,
   and osteoporosis than other women. We hope to identify the specific
   genes that cause many of these medical problems. By learning more about
   the genes that cause this disorder, we hope to improve the diagnosis
   and treatment of girls and women with Turner syndrome in the future.
   One of the most distressing aspects of this disorder for many patients
   has been the lack of medical and scientific information on the
   diagnosis and its implications. This protocol will include genetic
   counseling and will provide TS participants with opportunities to ask
   questions and discuss their diagnosis and medical/social issues with
   the physicians, research nurses and genetic counselors involved in the
   study. Indeed, a specific goal of the study is the identification of
   major themes of interest and concern to people affected with Turner
   syndrome and development of a counseling program that will effectively
   address these concerns. The results of clinical and genetic studies
   will also be provided in written form to study subjects and to their
   physicians. This study requires a 4-5 day inpatient stay at the NIH
   hospital in Bethesda, MD. Testing includes: Physical exam Body
   measurements Blood and urine sample collections Thorough evaluation of
   the heart, kidneys, and bones, including: x-rays of the wrists, MRI,
   ultrasounds, EKG, DEXA scan, CT scan [adults only], echocardiogram, and
   blood pressure monitoring Brain function and learning ability
   evaluations Psychosocial evaluations Genetic counseling and needs
   assessment DNA analysis Study investigators will discuss results of
   testing with participants in a follow-up outpatient visit or over the
   phone. Participants will be given a written summary of all results. The
   hospital stay and testing are free to all participants. You may take
   part in this study if: You have been diagnosed with Turner syndrome You
   are 7 years of age or older Your thyroid function tests are normal (or
   presently corrected by treatment) You are not pregnant For more
   information please contact Lori Hanton, RN, Study Coordinator, at
   1-888-437-4338 or (301) 496-0862 if in the Washington, D.C. area.
