http://mcmcweb.er.usgs.gov/drg/

   Link to the USGS Home Page
   text version
   DRG Button Bar

   DRG Program Overview
   DRG Points of Contact
   DRG Status Graphic
   Updates and Product Maintenance
   Standards and Other Technical Information
   Software and Sample Data
   Revised DRG Product Standard Approved May 2001
   Vertical Rule Digital Raster Graphics

   Link to a low resolution example of a DRG A digital raster graphic
   (DRG) is a scanned image of a U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) standard
   series topographic map, including all map collar information. The image
   inside the map neatline is georeferenced to the surface of the earth
   and fit to the Universal Transverse Mercator projection. The horizontal
   positional accuracy and datum of the DRG matches the accuracy and datum
   of the source map. The map is scanned at a minimum resolution of 250
   dots per inch.

   How to Obtain DRGs
     * From USGS Business Partners
       The USGS has private-sector business partners who sell USGS maps
       and digital data. Buying from these companies is usually the
       fastest way to obtain USGS products.
     * From USGS Data Partners
       The USGS does not make or sell DRGs for the following areas because
       of cooperative agreements with other agencies. See the DRG status
       graphic for approximate areas of coverage. The technical
       specifications for DRGs from these sources differ slightly from
       USGS specifications.
          + DRGs for most of California are available only from the
            California Spatial Information Library at
            http://gis.ca.gov/DRG.epl
          + DRGs for parts of Tennessee and some neighboring states are
            made by the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). See the TVA web
            site for product and ordering information.
     * From the USGS
       The USGS distributes DRGs on Compact Disc-Recordable (CD-R). DRG
       orders are filled on demand. There is a base charge of $45.00 per
       order, plus $5.00 shipping, plus $1.00 for each DRG quadrangle
       purchased. Sale of DRGs in fixed 1-degree blocks was discontinued
       on October 1, 1998. The current policy allows any combination of
       quadrangles to be ordered.
       For information on ordering DRGs on CD-R, contact any Earth Science
       Information Center or call 1-888-ASK-USGS, toll free. You may also
       order DRGs online from USGS Earth Explorer.
     * Other public sources


   Search USGS Biology Geology Mapping Water Disclaimer Help!
   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   1400 Independence Road, Rolla, MO 65401
   URL: http://mcmcweb.er.usgs.gov/drg/index.html
   Last modified: Thursday, 29-Nov-2001 10:01:57 CST
   Maintainer: mcmcweb@mailrmon1.er.usgs.gov
   USGS Privacy Statement
