http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/industry.htm

   Information for Industry


     The National Institute of Standards and Technology strengthens U.S.
   global economic competitiveness by developing technologies, measurement
        methods, and standards. NIST works with industry to overcome
          technological hurdles that limit quality and innovation.

   Follow the links below to learn about NIST's work in specific industry
                                  sectors:
                           Aerospace Construction
                    Automotive Electronics/semiconductors
               Chemical processing Energy use and conservation
                         Communications Health care
                           Computers Manufacturing

       Industry can work with NIST in several ways. Companies can join
   research consortia, cooperative research and development agreements, or
     sponsor guest researchers in NIST labs. Less formal collaborations
     between NIST researchers and their peers in industry, academia, and
                 other government agencies are also common.

     Small manufacturers wishing to modernize, improve productivity, and
      increase efficiency can seek assistance through NIST's nationwide
      Manufacturing Extension Partnership program. NIST MEP centers are
    located in every state to offer local manufacturers assistance with a
                 variety of technical and business problems.

       NIST manages the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award which
       recognizes performance excellence in business, health care, and
   education. The Baldrige National Quality Program has given guidance to
      thousands of organizations seeking to improve their performance.

   Industry can compete for NIST Advanced Technology Program co-funding to
    support high-risk, high-payoff research projects. The ATP accelerates
    the development of innovative technologies for broad national benefit
                through partnerships with the private sector.
   See also: Work With Us, Products and Services, Research/manufacturing
   partnerships, A-Z Subject Index, NIST Home Page


   Date created: 9/6/00
   Last updated: 11/30/01
   Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
