http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/intergov.html

   [USEMAP:headintergovinfo.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                         VISION:
   Expand the Intergovernmental Information Enterprise
                     Full statement

   Story Archive

      United Kingdom Online
      [ukonline.jpg] E-Gov is taking off in the UK. "There is one economy,
      all of it being transformed by information technology," said Prime
      Minister Tony Blair at the recent launch of UK Online.

      Indian Nation Finds Technology
      Is Prescription for Success
      [indianpharmacy.gif] Using private sector technology, the Fond du Lac
      Band of Lake Superior Chippewa introduced a sophisticated computerized
      billing system for its pharmacy -- the first of its kind for Indian
      Country. Thirty-four other tribal health-care providers have adopted
      it. For this technological coup that some claimed was undoable, the
      Band is a finalist for a prestigious award.

      Brown University Researchers
      Rate Government Sites
      [scale.gif] Researchers at Brown University examined 1,813 Web sites,
      searched each site for 27 different features, and ranked the sites on a
      100-point scale. They based ratings on such things as clear information
      about contacting government offices, online services, high-quality
      access for citizens with disabilities or limited English, and policies
      to protect security and privacy. The Consumer Product Safety
      Commission, Internal Revenue Service, and Department of the Treasury
      all achieved a 92-point ranking in the index.

      Code Talk for Native Americans
      [codetalk.gif] This one-stop site is for Native American communities
      and agencies that provide services and assistance. Drill down and
      you'll find the Federal Register Notice of all federally-recognized
      tribes - 556 in all. You'll also find information on health, housing,
      education, and other topics that affect Native Americans on and off the
      reservation. You'll also find links to help you trace your Native
      American ancestry.

      Mapping the Way to the 21st Century
      [map0101.gif] The Internet Age has a new frontier of information --
      oceans of unexplored data, miles of disparate facts -- all waiting to
      be captured, organized and used to better the human condition. Six
      communities win Hammer Awards for demonstrating Geographic Information
      Systems (GIS).
