http://www.usfa.fema.gov/lrc/

   USFA Seal Blank Image Learning Resource Center Banner Image


                                    LRC

                                About USFA
                               Fire Academy
                                Data Center
                                Fire Safety
                               Publications
                              Arson Prevention
                              Hotel-Motel List
                                 Memorial
                                Kids' Page



   Photo of the Learning Resource Center

LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER

   The Learning Resource Center (LRC) provides current information and
   resources on fire and emergency management subjects. With its
   collection of more than 100,000 books, reports, periodicals, and
   audiovisual materials, the LRC facilitates and supports student and
   faculty research and supplements classroom lectures and course
   materials.

   The LRC routinely answers simple requests; e.g., an organization's
   telephone number and address. In response to more complex inquiries on
   specific subjects, the LRC will do literature searches, compile
   bibliographies, and, depending on length and copyright restrictions,
   provide documentation in the form of reports and articles. Users of
   this website may access the LRC's Online Card Catalog to perform their
   own literature searches.

   The LRC is closed to the general public; only FEMA personnel and NETC
   students may use the facility or borrow materials. However, via
   interlibrary loan through local libraries, the general public can
   access the LRC's collection of books and research reports.
   Audiovisuals, magazines, and general reference materials are
   noncirculating. Call (800) 638-1821 or (301) 447-1030 for more
   information. Our fax number is (301) 447-3217 and our email address is
   netclrc@fema.gov. Please include your full name, mailing address and
   phone number in all email messages. Or, write to us at:

                     National Emergency Training Center
                          Learning Resource Center
                          16825 South Seton Avenue
                            Emmitsburg, MD 21727

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: September 18, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
