http://www.kepler.arc.nasa.gov/Tech_results.html

                                                         Updated 11/15/01

                          Technology Demonstration:

                                   Results

                              [Test105T09a.gif]

     The following describes the results of the tests that demonstrate
     meeting of the criteria -- the ability to detect Earth-size transits
     with an end-to-end system that performs as closely as possible to
     the way the actual space mission will perform.

     Interpretation of the Performance Plots
     Baseline Test
     Rotation-Translation
     Bright Stars
     Spacecraft Jitter of 3x Baseline
     Cosmic Rays
     Long-Duration Tests
     Testing Summary
     Conclusions

Interpretation of the Performance Plots

     Figure 2 (and Figure 5) contain the information for the 138 stars
     that were measured in each test. Fifty-four of the stars are located
     in the crowded region representing the star density of the galactic
     plane.The typical test duration was about 48 hours, except for the
     long duration tests, which ran for 10-14 days. Figure 1 display the
     1-hour to 1-hour precision versus star magnitude after the data were
     processed by our "standard analysis" procedure. (The long duration
     tests had enough data samples to compute 5-hour to 5-hour precision
     as in Figure 5.) The processing consists of analyzing the raw fluxes
     with the "optimal aperture program" (optapflux) followed by
     decorrelating the relative fluxes (decorr).

     The fractional precision values for normal stars (round holes in the
     star plate) are depicted by circles, while the stars capable of
     transits (rectangular stars crossed with a tiny wire) are depicted
     by "W"s. The green "x"s depict the calculated fractional shot-noise.
     The red "x"s denote the instrument noise calculated from the
     background variations. The solid red line denotes the required limit
     on the fractional noise exclusive of stellar variability (compare
     with values on line 5a of Table 1 for 12th, 13th and 14th magnitude
     stars.)

     A common feature seen in all of the tests was that almost all of the
     stars that are above the max-allowed line (the Ws) are 9th, 12th,
     and 14th magnitude stars with transit wires. Whereas those without
     wires (the Os), which includes all of the 11th and 13th magnitude
     stars almost always remain below the max-allowed red line. It is
     apparent that the wires add extra noise and can therefore be
     justifiably ignored when evaluating the system noise.

Baseline Test

     Prior to introducing external confounding factors, the effects of
     several common factors were measured in a Baseline test, since these
     are incorporated in the star plate. These included: dynamic range
     (m[v]=9-14 stars), crowded field (1540 stars in one local region)
     and smearing (multiple stars in the same CCD columns). The
     photometric precision of the Baseline test run at -60°C for 46 hours
     are presented in Figure 2.

                          [Fig_2_Baseline-60C.gif]

         Figure 2. 1-Hr to 1-Hr Precision Versus Stellar Magnitude.
     The fractional noise for normal stars (round holes) is depicted by
   circles. The noise for stars with rectangular holes crossed with a tiny
    wire are depicted by "W"s. The green "x"s depict the shot-noise. The
   red "x"s denote instrument noise calculated from background variations.
     The solid red line denotes the required limit on the noise shown on
         line 5a of Table 1 for 12th, 13th and 14th magnitude stars.

     An earlier Baseline test was run at -50°C for 55 hours producing
     almost the same noise, indicating that -50°C was a sufficiently cold
     temperature (and hence, used for all subsequent testing). Sample
     transits from the -50°C test are shown in Figure 3. Note that
     although the transit signals for the fainter 14th magnitude stars
     were typically 10 Earth-area, the noise was sufficiently small to
     detect transits of a few Earth area. The Kepler Mission photometry
     and the projected results are based on and scaled from being able to
     detect a one-Earth-area transit of a 12th magnitude star at 4 sigma.
     The center column of transit signals clearly demonstrates this.

                        [Fig_3_Transits_baseline.gif]

               Figure 3 Sample of Transits from Baseline Test.
    Transits for 9th (left column), 12th (middle column) and 14th (right
     column) magnitude stars. The vertical scale is relative brightness
    changes in units of Earth-areas. The blue lines are the 15-min. data.
     The red lines are the 5 hour averages. The data have been processed
    using the opaptflux (optimum aperture), decorr and polynorm programs.
   The location of the scheduled transits are indicated by the error bars.
    The error bars are the plus and minus one sigma variance for the data
                          exclusive of the transit.

Rotation-Translation

     During the mission the spacecraft is rotated 90° about the
     photometer axis every three months to maintain the side of the
     spacecraft with the solar panels pointed towards the Sun and the
     opposite side with radiator panels pointed to deep space. In between
     these rotations the spacecraft attitude remains fixed with the
     solar-vector slowly rotating through only a single quadrant of the
     spacecraft. This provides for a very slowly changing and otherwise
     benign thermal environment. The effect of the rotation on the
     operations is to move the star field image to different CCDs within
     the focal plane every three months and then begin a new three-month
     period with the stars imaged on a new fixed set of pixels. This
     causes only a small loss of transit data during the time of the
     rotation and restabilization (about a day). There is no requirement
     for the trend lines before and after the rotation to match. To
     demonstrate that the noise and ability to detect transits is not
     dependent on any one unique set of pixels or location on the CCD,
     the image was translated from one end of the CCD furthest from the
     readout registers to the end nearest the readout registers. The
     resulting performance, which was actually better than the Baseline
     test. For the remainder of the tests the image was shifted back to
     the far end of the CCD.

Bright Stars

     For the large star field viewed during the Kepler Mission there are
     15 stars as bright as 4th to 6th magnitude. To test the impact of
     these bright stars, a 4th magnitude bright star was introduced into
     the test image. The bright star only adversely affected a few
     columns of the CCD and thereby increased the noise slightly for only
     a few nearby stars. However, one star that was particularly close to
     the column containing the bright star not only had significantly
     more noise, but its apparent brightness was about one stellar
     magnitude brighter. Aside from a few stragglers, the overall noise
     was still well below the max-allowed as defined in Table 1. The
     general performance was similar to the Baseline test.

Spacecraft Jitter of 3x Baseline

     Based on previous spacecraft performance data and engineering
     modeling done by Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corporation for the
     Kepler Mission, a conservative estimate of the three-sigma pointing
     stability of ±0.1 arcsec has been derived. We define this to be the
     baseline jitter. The PZTs in the Testbed were driven at the
     frequencies and at three times the baseline amplitude prescribed by
     this attitude control system model. Except for a few stragglers, the
     overall noise was still well below the max-allowed even at three
     times baseline spacecraft jitter.

Cosmic Rays

     Cosmic ray hits have nearly always been detrimental to photon
     detectors. They cause both radiation damage and deposit energy. Over
     an extended period of time, CCDs produce traps, hot pixels,
     increased dark current and reduce the charge transfer efficiency
     (CTE). They also deposit unwanted charge when they interact.
     Radiation damage is a common problem for all CCD uses, has been a
     topic of continual study and may be mitigated to some extent by
     charge injection sometimes called a "fat zero". The fat zero also
     adds extra shot noise, which is an issue in low-flux situations. For
     the Kepler Mission, there is no shutter. Hence, the smearing of
     stars acts like a fat zero and has the beneficial side effect of
     keeping the traps filled. Long-term radiation damage was not
     incorporated into this Testbed.

     Charge deposited by cosmic rays is particularly problematic when
     using a CCD to measure very low fluxes. A cosmic ray may deposit
     more charge in one instant than is normally expected for a long
     exposure of a faint object. However, to achieve the low shot-noise
     level for the Kepler Mission, >3x10^8 electrons per five hour
     integration are required for even the faintest star (m[v]=14), so
     that cosmic rays do not appear to be a major source of additional
     noise.

     To test this, the equivalent of a Baseline test was run in which
     simulated cosmic rays were injected into the 3-second readouts but
     not rejected (Figure 1), based on a model for the comic ray flux
     seen in the LASCO/SOHO instrument. The cosmic-ray flux corresponded
     to 6 /cm^2/sec with 2500 e^- on average deposited in a pixel. Again,
     aside from a few stragglers, the overall noise for this test was
     still well below the max-allowed.

     Another cosmic-ray test was done in which a simple threshold
     algorithm was used to reject all 3-sec. integrations for any star
     that exceeded a threshold by more than a preset amount (e.g. 4x the
     sigma of the threshold value) and the flux for each star was
     corrected for the deleted data. The results were better than the
     case without rejecting the cosmic rays. However, when later tests
     were performed, in which image motion was introduced, this simple
     algorithm caused far too many false detections. The good results
     without cosmic ray rejection demonstrates that it is probably not
     necessary to delete the cosmic ray events.

Long-Duration Tests

     After performing the various tests to identify any adverse effects
     of any individual source of noise, several long-duration tests were
     performed. First a 14-day Baseline test was performed. Then two
     tests were run incorporating all of the confounding factors. That
     is, in addition to those incorporated in the Baseline test, the
     tests included a bright star at 4th magnitude, spacecraft jitter and
     cosmic rays. In these tests the cosmic rays were injected but not
     removed.

     For the 14-day Baseline test, the overall noise level is somewhat
     higher than in any other test with several stars deviating above the
     max-allowed line. However, these few stragglers did not raise the
     ensemble average above the max-allowed line.

     A ten-day test was conducted with the all the confounding noise
     factors: 4th magnitude bright star, spacecraft jitter at 1/3 the
     baseline value (best estimate of performance) and cosmic rays added
     but not deleted. The overall noise level is somewhat higher than in
     any other test with several stars deviating above the max-allowed
     line. However, these few stragglers did not raise the ensemble
     average above the max-allowed line. Sample transits from this test
     are shown in Figure 4.

                         [Fig_4_Long_Dur_trans.gif]
   Figure 4 Transits from Long Duration Test (10 Days) with a Bright Star,
     1/3 Spacecraft Jitter and Cosmic Rays. Star 5 (upper left) has a 12
     hour transit. All others are 5 hour transits. The locations of the
     scheduled transits are indicated by the error bars. The green error
    bars are the plus and minus one sigma variance for the data exclusive
                               of the transit.

     The final long duration test was a six-day test with the 4th
     magnitude star, spacecraft jitter at one-times baseline and cosmic
     rays added but not deleted. The precision versus stellar magnitude
     plot, Figure 5, shows that the performance was generally within the
     required limits. The average measured noise was well below the
     required level at all star magnitudes. This test demonstrates the
     ability to achieve the required precision photometry in a
     realistically simulated space environment.

                        [Fig_5_6dayw_confounding.gif]

   Figure 5 5-Hour to 5-Hour Precision for the 6-Day Test with 1x Baseline
     Spacecraft Motion, Cosmic Rays and a 4th Magnitude Star. All of the
    usual disturbances were also present throughout this 6-day test. The
       precision was within the requirement for all 9th, 13th and 14th
    magnitude stars (Table 1 line 5). The average precision for 11th and
    12th magnitude stars is very close to the required limit. Note that W
      stars were inherently more noisy due to the presence of the wire.

Testing Summary

     In all of the tests performed, the noise level was at or below the
     maximum allowed, with the exception of those stars that had transit
     wires. A tabular summary of the average fractional measured noise in
     units of 10^-5 is given in Table 3 for 5-hour binning. The max
     allowed noise is from Table 1 line 5, except that the required value
     for stars brighter than 12th magnitude is taken to be no better than
     that for 12th. The 13th mw and 14th mw are those stars that are in
     the crowded region representative of the star field density in the
     Milky Way where the Kepler Mission observes.

                      Table 3 Summary of Test Results,
         Average Measured Total (Shot and Instrument) Noise (x10^-5)
       Note that all measurements are below the required noise limit.

   Test

                                                         Stellar magnitude
   9 11 12 13 14 13 mw 14 mw
   Required noise limit (Table 1, line 5) 1.73 1.73 1.73 3.35 6.93 3.35
   6.93
   Baseline test (-50 C) 0.48 0.80 1.52 2.96 3.76 3.28 5.36
   Baseline test (-60 C) 0.40 0.72 1.28 1.76 3.12 1.92 3.04
   Cosmic rays (added, not deleted) 0.72 1.44 1.60 2.08 3.84 2.48 4.40
   Bright star test 0.32 0.72 1.68 1.36 4.16 1.84 3.60
   Motion at 3x Baseline 0.48 1.20 1.12 3.04 4.88 3.36 6.48
   Rotation/translation test 0.56 1.04 1.04 1.52 2.72 2.08 2.96
   Long duration Baseline test (14 days) 0.80 1.20 1.60 2.40 6.40 3.20
   5.12
   Long duration + 1/3x motion, CR, & Brt. star 0.56 1.20 1.44 2.56 6.16
   3.20 4.80
   6 day Baseline motion + C.R. and Bright star 0.88 0.88 1.60 1.36 5.44
   1.84 3.12

Conclusions

     The Kepler Mission is designed to detect hundreds of Earth-size
     planets by looking for transits. To demonstrate the technology to be
     utilized, a Testbed Facility was built and operated with a
     flight-type CCD. The facility simulates all of the features of the
     sky and the spacecraft/photometer that are important for the success
     of the mission. Optimum operating conditions for the PSF,
     photometric aperture size versus stellar brightness and maximum
     operating temperature were measured. Proto-flight software necessary
     for processing the data was used throughout. The required
     photometric precision was demonstrated while operating without a
     shutter during readout, having some saturated pixels in the
     brightest stars, working in a crowded field with a star density the
     same as planned for the mission, inclusion of spacecraft jitter and
     over a dynamic range of five stellar magnitudes. Additional tests of
     comic-ray hits and field rotation also did not have detrimental
     effects. Transits were injected and detected at the required
     statistical significance under all operating conditions during all
     tests.

     In long duration tests the Camera was simultaneously subjected to
     normal tracking errors, uncorrected cosmic ray hits, a 4th magnitude
     star in the CCD field and all of the other confounding factors
     expected under realistic operating conditions. These tests
     demonstrated that SNRs of 4.6 are achievable for Earth-size transits
     of 9th to 12th magnitude stars without stellar variability,
     permitting SNRs of 4.0 when stellar variability is included. For
     13th and 14th magnitude stars the SNRs (including variability) are
     2.3 and 1.1, respectively, due to the higher level of shot noise.

     While the achievement of 10^-5 precision had already been
     demonstrated in earlier tests, the results presented here provide
     ample evidence for the ability of existing commercially available
     CCDs in an end-to-end test with realistic operating conditions to
     consistently achieve a fractional precision of better than 1x10^-5
     and to consistently detect simulated Earth-size transits at the
     require SNR. The very successful test results should greatly reduce
     any perceived risk in the Kepler approach to planet detection.
     _______________________________________________________________

   [finger.gif] Go to The Next Topic

                                [bumper.gif]
                     Return to Kepler Mission Home Page


   Curator: David Koch, dkoch@mail.arc.nasa.gov [mail.box.gif]
