http://www.ioss.gov/html/prod_serv.htm

   picture of IOSS coin, showing Purple dragon and shield with the words
   "Interagency OPSEC Support Staff" Interagency OPSEC Support Staff
   Headline

   [USEMAP:Sidebar3.gif]


   The IOSS has several publications, videos, and Computer Based Training
   (CBT) courseware products available for ordering. All products are free
     of charge to government agencies and their contractors. To place an
     order, print and fill out the order form and either mail or FAX the
                       completed form for processing.

    Class scheduling can be initiated by contacting the IOSS directly via
                         telephone on 301-982-0323.

                     purple horizontal bar to split page

   Link to Publications found later on this page Link to Video section of
     this page Link to Multimedia Section of this page Link to Training
                            section of this page

                     purple horizontal bar to split page

                               OPSEC Indicator

        The OPSEC Indicator, published quarterly and produced by the
    Interagency OPSEC Support Staff, serves to promote and facilitate the
       exchange of information between professionals from the various
    government and industry communities. The newsletter features topics,
   articles, editorials and calendar events relative to the National OPSEC
   Program, the Operations Security process, and its related disciplines.
        The primary audience for "The OPSEC Indicator" is the Federal
      Government and US contractors who have been identified by Federal
       agencies as supporting specific national security programs and
                                 activities.

                                PUBLICATIONS

                                                     Return to Top of Page

                     Glossary of OPSEC Terms (Rev 1998)
      Identifies and defines terms associated with Operations Security.

   Applying OPSEC to Treaty Inspections
   Provides tailored OPSEC guidance for facilities subject to on-site
   treaty inspections.

   Applying OPSEC to US Government Contracts
   Provides OPSEC planning guidence for US Government contracting
   officials and their contractor support base.

   Operations Security: Program Manager's Handbook
   Provides basic guidelines for establishing and sustaining a formal
   OPSEC program.

   Maintaining Operational Security: Minimizing the Risk of Law
   Enforcement Mission Failure
   Reprinted from an article published in Law and OrderMagazine, focuses
   on the OPSEC process as it relates to the protection of law enforcement
   operations.

                        Intelligence Threat Handbook

       Brand new edition of theThreat Handbook provides an overview of
       worldwide threat and the categories of intelligence threat, and
    identifies available resources for obtaining threat information. This
     publication was first published in 1995 and quickly became the most
   popular and most requested of all publications distributed by the IOSS.
   It is designed to provide unclassified threat reference information for
    the OPSEC community, but is marked "FOUO" and should be protected as
                                    such.

   Operational Planning: Taking the Adversary's Perspective
   Reprinted from Law and Order as a companion to "Maintaining Operational
   Security," emphasizes the use of the "Adversary Strategy" tool to
   develop a comprehensive compilation of critical information and
   adversary capabilities.

    Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OPSEC for Public Safety Agencies"
                                  Monograph

          [new.gif] Operations Security for Public Safety Agencies
   Reprinted from the manual, SPECIAL OPERATIONS For Terrorism and Hazmat
   Crimes. Authored by Michael S. Hildebrand, this publication is a recent
   addition to the IOSS Monograph Series. It introduces the basic concepts
    of establishing an OPSEC program for the public safety community and
     explains in detail how to apply the 5-step OPSEC process to Special
     Operations at the scenes of major events, violent crimes, terrorist
       incidents, or incidents involving weapons of mass destruction.
                           [Published, June 2001]
       Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Terrorism Threat Handbook"

                     [new.gif] Terrorism Threat Handbook
    A companion to the Intelligence Threat Handbook, this publication is
   designed to provide unclassified terrorist threat reference information
   for members of the OPSEC community. It explains categories of terrorist
       threats, provides details of threats worldwide from individual
       terrorists groups, and identifies dates of potential terrorism
      significance. It is marked "For Official Use Only" and should be
        protected as such. [Published, June 2001, 133 page document]

                                   VIDEOS


                                                     Return to Top of Page

          Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OPSEC: Protecting Our
    Edge/Protecting Tomorrow's Technology Today" video OPSEC: Protecting
               Our Edge/Protecting Tomorrow's Technology Today
    Illustrates how Operations Security projects America's technological
   edge in the defense and global markets. Produced by Defense Information
             Systems Agency.(8:30 and 18:39 minutes)(VHS Video)
     Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OPSEC: An Overview (Facilitator
     Guide)" video Operations Security: An Overview (Facilitator Guide)
     Presents four modules: Introduction to OPSEC; OPSEC Threats; OPSEC
   Vulnerabilities; and OPSEC and You for OPSEC training. Produced by the
      Department of Energy(DOE) for OPSEC training. (29:47 minutes)(VHS
                                   Video)
    Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OSPEC: A different Point of View
         (Facilitator Guide)" video OPSEC: A Different Point of View
                             (Facilitator Guide)
     Provides a general understanding of the OPSEC process motivates the
                 viewers to practice OPSEC. ( 28:00 minutes)
                                 (VHS Video)
    Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Intelligence Threats: The Why of
             OPSEC" video Intelligence Threats: The Why of OPSEC
    Introduces and describes intelligence collection methods aimed at the
                  United States. (14:51 minutes)(VHS Video)
   Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OPSEC: The Art of Working Together"
                  video OPSEC: The Art of Working Together
    Uses a case study of how one high-tech company successfully employed
   the OPSEC process to maintain its competitive edge and provide an added
      dimension of protection to corporate operations. (18:02 minutes)
                                 (VHS Video)
       Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Applying OPSEC to Criminal
                            Investigations" video

                  Applying OPSEC to Criminal Investigations
      Takes the viewer through the investigation of a criminal case and
   demonstrates how operations security can be used effectively at various
    stages to protect the information that is vital to the success of the
                 investigation. (~13:00 minutes) (VHS Video)
    Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Dice 2000 Special Edition" video
                        D*I*C*E 2000 Special Edition
     D*I*C*E briefings are designed to provide the viewer with the most
    current unclassified threat information and to remind people of their
    individual security responsibilities and the need to report strange,
   curious, or suspicious activities. They also stress the value of using
       good OPSEC in our daily routines. Mr. Semko's briefing style is
   intentionally out of the box using what he calls "info-tainment" to get
              the message across. (~96:00 minutes) (VHS Video)
       Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Awareness 2001: A Security,
                Counterintelligence, and OPSEC Update" video

    New Awareness 2001: A Security, Counterintelligence, and OPSEC Update
    This video is a security awareness tool that offers an assortment of
     hot topics of interest. From computer security and other challenges
    brought on by the recent explosion in information technology to tips
    for safe travel in a dangerous world, this video offers something for
   everyone involved in protecting our Nation's security. Each segment is
     self-contained and offers insights into, and solutions for, current
      issues facing the U.S. government, military, law enforcement, and
    private industry. It is designed to be viewed in whole or in part as
                 time permits. (~123:00 minutes) (VHS Video)
      Thumbnail size picture of cover of "2001 - A Dice Odyssey" video

                        New 2001 - A D*I*C*E Odyssey
    This D*I*C*E briefing is Ray Semko's most current video presentation.
        It is unclassified, but the threat information he provides is
   up-to-the-minute current and relevant. From the latest espionage cases
    to web vulnerabilities and cyber threat, this comprehensive awareness
    presentation serves as a wake-up call and should be seen by everyone
       involved in our Nation's security. (~87:00 minutes) (VHS Video)

                                 MULTIMEDIA


                                                     Return to Top of Page

     Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OPSEC Fundamentals, OP301" CBT
             OPSEC Fundamentals: CBT Series, March 1999(CD-ROM)
            Describes the OPSEC process using an OPSEC scenario.
   Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Program Manager's Tool" CBT Program
               Manager's Tool: CBT Series, March 1999(CD-ROM)
   Assists OPSEC Program Managers with program management, OPSEC planning,
                        and OPSEC survey preparation.
      Thumbnail size picture of cover of "Interactive OPSEC Survey" CBT
                   Interactive OPSEC Survey: CBT (CD-ROM)
   Allows the user to view a video, watch a refresher briefing and enter a
       virtual office to find sensitive information. Produced by DOE.
       Thumbnail size picture of cover of "OPSEC Program CBT Refresher
     Briefing" CBT OPSEC Program Computer-Based Refresher Briefing: CBT
                                  (CD-ROM)
    Provides a briefing on sensitive information, information management,
    economic espionage social engineering, treaties, and computers in an
                    entertaining style. Produced by DOE.
    Thumbnail size picture of cover of "The OPSEC Picture Puzzle" CBT The
                     OPSEC Picture Puzzle: CBT (CD-ROM)
     Provides an overview of OPSEC with an emphasis on vulnerabilities.
                              Produced by DOE.

                                  TRAINING

                        Return to Calendar of Events

                            Return to Top of Page

    OPSE1300 Operations Security Fundamentals (formerly known as OP-300)

                           Length: 8 hours, 1 day

   Delivery Mode: Platform instruction and video teleconference available.

        FY2002 Schedule: Oct 11, Jan 10, Feb 21, May 23, Sep 16 (Also
     incorporated into the Regional Threat Symposia, Feb 6 2002 and the
         National OPSEC Conference and Exhibition, May 13-17 2002).

    Description: This course is designed to provide federal employees and
   federal contractors with a basic working knowledge of OPSEC as outlined
    in National Security Decision Directive (NSDD)-298. Lectures focus on
        understanding how OPSEC principles are used in the workplace,
     especially in the law enforcement; military; research, development,
        testing and engineering (RDT&E) and acquisition communities.

    Target student population: This course is useful for those who need a
   familiarity with the OPSEC process, to include managers and executives.

    OPSE2380 Operations Security Practitioner (formerly known as OP-380)

                          Length: 40 hours, 5 days

         Delivery Mode: Case-based platform instruction with student
                       participation in small groups.

    FY2002 Schedule: Oct 22-26, Dec 3-7, Jan 28-Feb1, Mar 18-22, Jun 3-7,
                             Jul 8-12, Aug 19-23

      Description: The focus of this course is on the basic skills and
   knowledge needed by the OPSEC practitioner. Students learn to apply the
   systems analysis methodology to their own organizations and activities,
     to identify sources of information and support materials for OPSEC
   practitioners, and to conduct an OPSEC analysis of a program, activity
    or operation. The course includes major modules on the OPSEC survey,
   the role of the OPSEC officer, and tools useful to OPSEC analysis. The
    student is afforded the opportunity to apply OPSEC tools and lessons
         through a variety of practical exercises and case studies.

     Target student population: This course is specifically designed for
      individuals assigned OPSEC officer, OPSEC working group or OPSEC
   program manager duties, who will be responsible for OPSEC analysis and
                application to the organization's activities.

   OPSE2390 Operations Security Program Manager (formerly known as OP-390)

                     Prerequisite: OPSE1300 Or OPSE2380

                         Length: 28 hours, 3.5 days

         Delivery Mode: Case-based platform instruction with student
                       participation in small groups.

         FY2002 Schedule: Oct 29-Nov1, Feb 407, Jun 10-13, Aug 26-29

        Description: This course provides detailed instruction on the
    development and implementation of an OPSEC program, including program
    design, planning, decision briefing, and awareness training. Students
    design briefings and awareness training materials, review and revise
     organizational level OPSEC policies, and design marketing products.

     Target student population: This course is specifically designed for
    individuals assigned as OPSEC program managers. Students who are not
   program managers must get permission from the course manager to attend.

                      OP2330 Threat Research for OPSEC

                     Prerequisite: OPSE1300 Or OPSE2380

                          Length: 24 hours, 3 days

         Delivery Mode: Case-based platform instruction with student
                       participation in small groups.

         FY2002 Schedule: Dec 10-12, Mar 25-27, Jul 15-17, Sep 17-19

   Description: This course provides an overview of information resources
    available to the OPSEC analyst, and a suggested approach to gathering
         all information into a cohesive, accurate assessment of the
   intelligence threat to an operation or activity. The course deals with
       the practical issues involved in obtaining threat information,
    including writing a request for information, who to ask, how to ask,
           and what to ask for. Requires a U.S. Secret Clearance.

     Target student population: This course is designed for individuals
      performing OPSEC analysis who must identify organizational threat
            analysis requirements as part of the OPSEC analysis.

               OPSE2350 OPSEC and Web Content Vulnerabilities

                           Length: 16 hours, 2days

   Delivery Mode: Platform instruction with student participation in small
                                   groups.

         FY 2002 Schedule: Nov 14-15, Jan 15-16, Apr 2-3, Jul 30-31

   Description: This seminar addresses the vulnerabilities associated with
       using web pages to provide information to the public and those
     associated with using the Internet to do open-source research. The
             focus is on content rather than technical security.

     Target student population: Web page administrators, public affairs
                officers, information security practitioners.

                               Special Courses

       The IOSS offers additional training opportunities that are not
   scheduled. Two of these are described below. The first is a course that
       is available on request, the second is computer-based training.

   OPSE3400 Survey Course for the Practitioner (formerly known as OP-400)
                          Length: 80 hours, 10 days

   Delivery Mode: Limited platform instruction with student participation
    in a survey team. OPSE3400 is only scheduled on request. Cost to the
                  host is TDY expenses for two instructors.

     Description: The focus of this two-week course is on the skills and
   knowledge needed to plan, organize, and conduct an OPSEC survey, and to
      produce a final report. The students conduct a survey during the
   course, with academics incorporated into the survey process. Class size
                    should be between 6 and 10 students.

   Target student population: Members of an organization with at least 10
    months retainability who will act as team members for follow-on OPSEC
                      surveys within the organization.

      OPSE1301 Operations Security Fundamentals CBT (formerly known as
                                   OP-301)

                  Length: Self-paced, approximately 4 hours

      Delivery Mode: Computer Based Training (CBT) provided on one CD.
              Contact the IOSS at 301-982-0323 to order the CD.

    Description: This course is designed to provide federal employees and
   federal contractors with a basic working knowledge of OPSEC and how it
      applies to executive branch agencies and departments. The course
    focuses on the history of OPSEC and the OPSEC process as described in
   NSDD-298. Students have an opportunity to choose scenarios to practice
                      OPSEC in different environments.

   Target student population: Unit personnel who require knowledge of the
     OPSEC process, but who will not be asked to perform OPSEC analysis,
      including managers, working group members, and OPSEC coordinators
                     supporting the unit OPSEC program.

            Last Updated on January 17, 2002
                                            Return to Top of Page
