http://www.bt.cdc.gov/EmContact/index.asp

   Skip Navigation Links

   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   Public Health/Bioterrorism Preparedness & Response
   Site-wide Links


                Department of Health and Human Services - USA
   Agents & Threats
   Biological (listing)
   Chemical (listing)
   Radiological Emergencies
   Site Topics
   Preparation & Planning
   Emergency Response
   Lab Information
   Surveillance
   Media & Press Center
   Training
   Resources/Links
   En Español
   Página Principal del Terrorismo Biológico
   Public Inquiries
   English (888) 246-2675
   Español (888) 246-2857
   Mon-Fri 8am-11pm EST
   Sat-Sun 10am-8pm EST
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   1600 Clifton Rd.
   Atlanta, GA 30333
   U.S.A
   (404) 639-3311
   FirstGov
   Emergency Response
   For more detailed public health, clinical and lab information, please
   see the Lab & Health Professionals area
   In an Emergency

   If you believe that you have been exposed to a biological or chemical
   agent, or if you believe an intentional biological threat will or is
   occurring, please contact your local health department and/or your
   local police or other law enforcement agency.

   State and selected county/city health department Web sites
   Links to homepages.
   Emergency Notification Procedures

   • State and local health officials
     Interim Recommended Notification Procedures for Local and State Public
     Health Department Leaders in the Event of a Bioterrorist Incident
     Flow chart with explanations for responsibilities at each step.
   • Healthcare providers
     How should health care workers respond to suspected exposure to a
     bioterrorist agent?
     FAQ.

   Contacts for Use by State and Local Health Officials, Healthcare
   Providers

   • Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Program
     Hotline: 770-488-7100
     Program questions: 404-639-0385
   • Emergency Preparedness and Response Branch
     National Center for Environmental Health
     24-Hour Emergency Telephone: (770) 488-7100
   • Health Agency Locator (HAL)
     Directories, contacts, hotlines, search features. On
     StatePublicHealth.org site.
   First Responders Information

   • Interim Recommendations for Firefighters and Other First Responders
     for the Selection and Use of Protective Clothing and Respirators
     Against Biological Agents
   • Emergency Response Resources
     Information on collecting environmental samples, respirator cleaning,
     traumatic incident distress information, more. From NIOSH (National
     Institute for Occupational Safety and Health)


   Additional Contacts Outside CDC

   • FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency)
   • FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation)
   • Office of Emergency Preparedness
     U.S. Department of Health and Human Services


   For more detailed public health, clinical and lab information, please
   see the Lab & Health Professionals area
   Related Resources

   • For information on evaluating potential anthrax threats, see anthrax:
     Get the Facts and Anthrax: For Lab and Health Professionals
   • For emergency response planning, see Preparation and Planning
   • Illness recognition: see Surveillance and individual biological and
     chemical
     agents pages.

   Top of Page

   PHEPR Home | Lab & Health Professionals | About | FAQ | Contact Us

   CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

   In general all information presented in these pages and all items
   available for download are for public use. However, you may encounter
   some pages that require a login password and id. If this is the case
   you may assume that information presented and items available for
   download therein are for your authorized access only and not for
   redistribution by you unless you are otherwise informed.
   Content-related questions should be directed to: Content Administrator
   Site-related questions should be directed to: Webmaster
   This page last reviewed:
   Privacy Policy | Accessibility
   ** Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 may be required for large documents**
