http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/factsheet/impacts_progress.htm

                             NIST Navigation Bar

   Impacts in Progress
   A Sampling of Story Ideas from Today's NIST

      Helping the Blind Access Electronic Data
      For the nearly 11 million blind and visually impaired people in North
      America and millions more worldwide, the on-ramp to the Information
      Superhighway has been blocked for a long time. Now with NIST’s help,
      the barricades are coming down.

          The NIST Rotating-Wheel Based Refreshable Braille Display is an
                             instrument that receives
      digital input from electronic book readers, personal digital assistants
      or desktop computers, and converts it to a continuously updated Braille
      output. This gives the blind and visually impaired access to electronic
       books, online documents, e-mail and web pages. The latest version of
         the NIST device incorporates several design improvements from the
                      prototype tested during the year 2000.

        For example, many blind and visually impaired people prefer to read
      Braille using several fingers, and the original design only allowed for
      reading with a single finger. The new NIST Braille Display also is more
        compact and mechanically simpler than the original. It also employs
        software to translate text into Braille and features variable speed
       that allows people to read faster or slower, or to pause the device.
      NIST estimates that the device could be manufactured for about $1,000,
          significantly less than the up-to-$15,000 for current systems.

                      Contact: Philip Bulman, (301) 975-5661.

                   ‘No-Crash’ System Stays on Road to Success
        Some 3,000 Americans each day doze off or get distracted behind the
      wheel of a moving vehicle and run off the road. Land-departure warning
      systems—already installed on some commercial trucks—may be options for
       U.S. car buyers within the next two or three years. If this “smart”
      technology takes off and becomes widely available, estimates predict it
           could prevent some 160,000 crashes and 1,500 deaths annually.

         To ensure that the warning systems work as desired, the National
          Highway Traffic Safety Administration recently contracted with
           intelligent-vehicle researchers at NIST to develop tests that
       manufacturers and regulators can use to evaluate system performance.
         The NIST team is designing tests for assessing how accurately and
       reliably the technology alerts drivers to unintended lane departures
                                before they occur.

                    Contact: Michael E. Newman, (301) 975-3025

                       Everyday Is SUNday Inside the Sphere
      Strength, safety and color fastness are important to manufacturers who
      test their products’ ability to withstand UV exposure. However, outdoor
          tests take too long, often going for years. Indoor devices can
           accelerate testing but do not always provide optimal results.

      NIST researchers have developed a spherical device that distributes UV
       radiation uniformly into 32 specimen chambers, ensuring reproducible
      test results. The device is calculated to accelerate UV exposure 30 to
       65 times faster than natural solar exposure. Materials exposed to the
      sphere’s UV light for one day potentially receive the equivalent of 65
          days of sun. Two months could equal more than 10 years of solar
                                     exposure.

                        Contact: John Blair, (301) 975-4261

                    Rebuilding Bone with the Help of Technology
      The combination of tissue engineering with materials science holds the
      promise of producing biomaterials capable of regenerating bone that has
        been broken or lost to disease. Researchers at the American Dental
        Association Health Foundation/NIST Paffenbarger Research Center in
          Gaithersburg, Md., are working to expand the use of bone repair
       material—primarily calcium phosphate cement—beyond what’s possible
                                      today.

       Calcium phosphate cement, which the body readily accepts, replaces a
       section of bone and serves as scaffolding around which new bone forms
        in the same shape. Use of this biomaterial is now limited to those
              areas of the body that do not move or bear any stress.

          The ADA/NIST team hopes to expand these limited capabilities by
      modifying existing biomaterials and developing new ones. The goal is to
      produce biomaterials that can handle the physical demands on bone where
       movement and stress are factors. One benefit would be to shorten the
          time for installing dental implants to days rather than months.

                    Contact: Pamela Houghtaling, (301) 975-5745

                        Ensuring Quality for New Therapies
       Physicians and physicists have teamed up to bring prostate cancer and
      heart patients a new treatment option that could replace many invasive
      surgeries and lessen hospital time. Most importantly, this method—the
        implantation of tiny radioactive seeds to treat prostate tumors and
      coronary artery blockage—could play a significant role in reducing the
         725,000 heart disease and 32,000 prostate cancer deaths annually.
      Physicists at NIST are helping advance this new therapy by calibrating
              the radiation doses delivered by the radioactive seeds.

        These new treatments, using small (rice-sized) radioactive sources,
       offer the advantage of delivering a high radiation dose to the target
      cells while minimizing the radiation damage to healthy tissue. NIST is
         the only laboratory in the world that offers calibrations of the
          radioactive seed sources for prostate cancer. The intravascular
      applications of these radioactive sources are still in clinical trials,
      and FDA approval will be required before such treatments are available
                                  to the public.

                       Contact: Michael Baum, (301) 975-2763

                    Setting Standards from Chocolate to Bullets
       Spinach leaves, whale blubber, pine needles and industrial sludge are
         among the nearly 1,300 materials that NIST has characterized for
         specific physical and chemical properties using state-of-the-art
         measurement methods. Known as Standard Reference Materials, these
       certified artifacts are used to establish the quality and reliability
              of devices, goods, medical data and scientific results.

       An interesting collection of new measurement references is currently
       under development at NIST. One example is an SRM of fired bullets and
       casings to help connect firearms to specific crimes. Another measures
      more precisely a protein that could signal the early stages of a heart
        attack. A third, the chocolate SRM, will be used as a benchmark for
       determining whether foods really do contain the fat and carbohydrate
       content listed on the label. Also in the works are SRMs for additives
      in smokeless gunpowder, antibiotics in milk, abrasiveness of toothpaste
                    and organic contaminants in household dust.

                        Contact: John Blair, (301) 975-4261
                    Retrieving Data from Damaged Magnetic Tape
         A new microscopy technique could become an important tool for law
      enforcement and accident investigators seeking data (either digital or
        analog) from magnetic tracks on damaged, altered or erased tapes or
           other storage media. Termed second harmonic magneto-resistive
        microscopy (also known as SH-MRM), it makes use of high-resolution
         magnetic sensors developed for modern computer hard disk drives.

      Researchers at NIST and the National Telecommunication and Information
       Administration laboratories in Boulder, Colo., recently demonstrated
          that their system could recover audio data from a tape fragment
      provided by the National Transportation Safety Board. They also showed
        that raw digital data can be read from a very short segment of tape
      from a flight data recorder. For the FBI, they revealed magnetic marks
       produced by the erase and record heads during the recording process.
      They also showed that audio data from test tracks can be reconstructed
                 and played back directly from the SH-MRM images.

                  Contact: Fred McGehan (Boulder), (303) 497-3246

                       NIST Teams with EPA to Clear the Air
        In 2000, NIST joined an interagency effort led by the Environmental
            Protection Agency—the National Particulate Matter Research
      Program—aimed at improving the nation’s air quality and public health.

        Particulate matter is a mix of coarse and fine particles in the air
      produced by natural processes as well as human activities. About 10 to
       100 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair, fine particulate
        matter can consist of dust, ashes, soot and sea salt aerosols. The
           challenge is to identify and measure accurately the chemical
      components—specifically, the toxic ones—and collect enough particulate
      to constitute a representative sample. NIST and its NPMRP partners will
          develop urban particulate matter reference materials, a special
      thin-film glass standard for X-ray fluorescence analysis and technology
       for large-scale collection of fine airborne particulate matter. This
          will enable the accurate measurement of emissions from various
             pollutant sources such as industrial plants and vehicles.

                    Contact: Pamela Houghtaling, (301) 975-5745

                        Quality Pays Off Six Straight Years
        Although you won’t find it listed in the financial section of the
      newspaper, the “Baldrige Index” once again (for the sixth consecutive
        year) outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 in a report issued in
      February 2000. The year 2000 margin of 4.8 to 1 was one of the highest
                returns since NIST started doing the study in 1995.

       The “Baldrige Index” is a fictitious stock fund made up of publicly
       traded US companies that have received the Malcolm Baldrige National
       Quality Award. NIST “invested” a hypothetical $1,000 in each of the
      whole company winners, and the investments were tracked from the first
           business day of the month following the announcement of award
         recipients through Dec. 1, 1999. Adjustments were made for stock
       splits. Another $1,000 hypothetically was invested in the S&P 500 for
                               the same time period.

       The “Baldrige Index” achieved a 1,101 percent return on investment,
                 compared to a 228 percent return for the S&P 500.

       More recently, NIST compared the Baldrige Award whole company winners
         to large cap blend funds, a category of mutual funds monitored by
      Morningstar Inc. that best matches the Baldrige index. This comparison
       showed the group of Baldrige winners outperforming the average return
                    (148 percent) for these funds by 7.4 to 1.

                        Contact: Jan Kosko, (301) 975-2767

                      ATP Jump Starts Innovative Technologies
      Since 1990, the NIST Advanced Technology Program has worked to spur the
      development of path-breaking new technologies by providing cost-shared
      funding for potentially valuable but high-risk R&D projects. Nearly 200
        projects have been completed, and more than 200 currently are under
        way. In industry after industry—medical diagnostics, semiconductor
      manufacturing, automobiles, telecommunications, information technology,
        electronics, high-performance composites, biotechnology—the United
       States can offer the world’s markets many leading-edge technologies
                       that wouldn’t exist without the ATP.

          In 2000, the NIST ATP chose 54 industrial research projects for
        cost-shared support ($130 million from private industry matched by
      approximately $144 million from the ATP). The selected projects enable
      a broad array of technologies, including pharmaceutical design, tissue
         engineering, industrial catalysts, energy generation and storage,
          manufacturing technologies, electronics manufacturing, computer
                           software and electro-optics.

        One recent ATP success story is CuraGen Corp., a New Haven, Conn.,
       company, that has built what are believed to be the world’s smallest
        working pumps. With individual components only a micrometer or less
      wide, the tiny pumps are engineered like integrated circuits on silicon
        wafers in order to move fragments of DNA from one place to another.

         Developed with support from the ATP, the tiny pumps are potential
      components in DNA analysis chips—miniaturized devices that combine the
       functions of an entire DNA laboratory on a chip similar to a computer
      microchip. Along with moving DNA across chips, the CuraGen researchers
         believe that the micropumps also may be useful in separating DNA
      fragments by size, since the smaller pieces tend to go through the pump
                                      faster.

                       Contact: Michael Baum, (301) 975-2763

                      Small Manufacturers Spell Success M-E-P
      The NIST Manufacturing Extension Partnership is a nationwide system of
      resources assisting smaller manufacturers in becoming more competitive
       by addressing their most critical and often unique needs. Started in
      1989, today’s NIST MEP network consists of more than 400 manufacturing
            extension centers and field offices delivering services to
      manufacturers in all 50 states and Puerto Rico. Each center represents
               a unique blend of federal, state and local resources.

       Many studies are finding that small manufacturers who work with their
        local NIST MEP center show dramatic improvements. For example, in a
        recent survey of NIST MEP client companies served in the last nine
       months of FY 1999, 2,942 firms reported that, as a result of NIST MEP
       services, they: (1) created or retained 18,153 jobs; (2) increased or
       retained $1.4 billion in sales; and (3) realized $364 million in cost
                                     savings.

        Just ask Chilly Willee, the Belvidere, Ill., company that produces
          machines that dispense frozen drinks in convenience stores and
          concession stands, what a difference the NIST MEP can make. The
        company’s machines are often operated 24 hours a day, seven days a
           week. As a result, gearbox parts required frequent upkeep and
         replacement. Complaints from customers about maintenance problems
                              became all too common.

       Chilly Willee contacted the Illinois Manufacturing Extension Center,
      for help in designing an improved gearbox. IMEC and a local engineering
              consultant, Creative Design Solutions Inc., developed a
       self-lubricating, virtually maintenance-free gearbox. The new design
      will save about $15,000 in annual labor costs, decrease downtime of the
                   machines and increase customer satisfaction.

                        Contact: Jan Kosko, (301) 975-2767
      The impacts listed in this fact sheet were all taken from recent issues
      of NIST’s two newsletters, NIST Update and NIST Tech Beat. NIST Update,
         published every two weeks, highlights NIST research, activities,
         services and people. NIST Tech Beat, published monthly, is a lay
        language tip sheet for science writers, To subscribe to either the
       print or electronic versions of both newsletters, fill out the online
                 form at www.nist.gov/public_affairs/mailform.htm.
        __________________________________________________________________

                            Created on January 9, 2001
                            Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
