http://www.ed.gov/PressReleases/01-2002/01242002b.html

   Mouseover preload - not necessary for function

   Skip Navigation Recursos en Español, Privacy, Security, Notices
   U.S. Department of Education [USEMAP:edheader_title.gif]
    About ED | A-Z Index | Site Map | Contact Us
    Search:   _______________  GO  Advanced
   Home Audience Grants and Contracts Financial Aid Education Resources
   Research and Stats Policy
    My Profile | Add to My.ED.gov Bookmarks



   Inside OPA

   • OPA Home
     Press Releases
   • Speeches
   • Radio Broadcast News
   • Official Photos
   • Senior Staff Bios
   • White House Releases
   • Video Broadcasts
   • ED Publications
   • ED Offices
   • ED Budget

   First Lady Addresses Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
   Pensions
   FOR RELEASE:
   January 24, 2002 Contact: ED Office of Public Affairs
                    202-401-1576

   Mrs. Bush's office today released her remarks (as delivered) before the
   Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:

   Senator Kennedy, Senator Gregg and members of the Committee, on
   September 11, 2001, I came here to meet with you to discuss the
   development and education of our young children. That meeting was
   called off because of the tragedies that struck the innocent victims at
   the World Trade Towers, the Pentagon and on flight 93.

   September 11 was a turning point for all of us - as parents, as
   neighbors, as Americans. I will never forget the moments that Senator
   Kennedy and Senator Gregg and I shared privately before we met the
   media in this very room. And, I will always remember that you were not
   concerned for yourselves, but rather you were concerned for others - my
   husband, the people of our country, and, the victims of the attacks and
   their families.

   Yet, when we came in here to make our public statements, you were
   resolute in announcing that this briefing was being postponed, not
   cancelled. In the face of tragedy, you remained focused on the children
   of America. For that I applaud you and the members of this august
   Committee.

   Since September 11, I have traveled across the country meeting children
   and their parents. I have seen the faces of children who were directly
   affected by the attacks - children who lost parents in the Pennsylvania
   crash; children who were displaced from their schools in New York;
   students who lost classmates in the airplane that struck the Pentagon.

   As a result, I am doubly committed to using my voice to help give our
   youngest Americans a real chance to succeed in the classroom, in the
   university, and in the work place. I am proud to be your partner in
   this effort to make sure that children's learning skills are nurtured
   during the critical years between the crib and the classroom.

   When President Bush was sworn into office one year ago, he vowed to
   make sure that every child was educated. He made educating every child
   his top domestic priority. He committed to work to close the
   achievement gap among students.

   Thanks to the leadership of Senator Kennedy, Senator Gregg and all the
   members of this Committee, on January 8, President Bush signed into law
   the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 - an historic piece of legislation
   that sets high standards and holds schools accountable for student
   results.

   This comprehensive plan will improve overall student performance and
   help close the achievement gap that exists in our nation's schools.

   In 2002, programs in the elementary and secondary reform bill received
   a 27 percent increase in funding, including an 18 percent increase in
   Title 1, and a boost to nearly $1 billion for early reading programs.

   Soon, my husband will propose a budget that even further funds critical
   education programs. His proposal will include major increases for
   education and special education - including an increase of $1 billion
   in funding for Title 1programs for disadvantaged students.

   The President's new budget will also ask for $1 billion in additional
   funding to help children with special needs.

   Thanks to the reforms included in the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001,
   we can be sure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely.

   I am proud to be part of President Bush's effort to improve the quality
   of education for all children.

   Last February, I launched an initiative called Ready to Read, Ready to
   Learn. This initiative has two major goals - first, to ensure that all
   young children are ready to read and learn when they enter their first
   classroom -- and second, to help our nation recruit the best and the
   brightest to become teachers, especially in classrooms in our most
   impoverished neighborhoods. I am dedicated to ensuring that all young
   children are ready to read and learn upon school entry.

   My emphasis on making sure that preschool children are provided
   stimulating activities and interactions with adults and other children
   so they can develop strong language and pre-reading concepts from birth
   onward stems from my own experiences as a mother, a public school
   teacher and a school librarian.

   As a mother, I learned quickly that reading to our daughters and
   playing language games -- even when they were babies -- brought joy and
   laughter to our home. As they grew physically, they also grew in their
   love of being read to and then reading themselves.

   My husband and I must have read "Hop on Pop" to them dozens of times,
   and it was not uncommon for them to ask me to read the same book
   several times a day. It was astonishing to watch how many new words
   they learned as we read and talked about words and their meanings, the
   names of the letters, and the sounds the letters make.

   Before I knew it, they could "read" many words in "Hop on Pop" and
   other books. Well, actually they memorized the words because we read
   them so often.

   But the important thing is they thought they were reading. Even by two
   years of age they knew when the book was right side up and knew that we
   always started to read on the left side of the page.

   As they continued to grow, they became fascinated with different ways
   we could play with words and sounds, and delighted in hearing nursery
   rhymes, stories, and songs. Before they entered kindergarten they knew
   that the letters and words in books talked to you just like people do.

   When our girls entered school they were well on their way to
   independent reading and their love for reading was firmly established.
   Little did I know at that time how all of our reading activities from
   their birth onward provided the foundation for their later reading
   skills.

   During my career as an elementary school teacher, I was fortunate to
   focus a great deal of my time on a love of mine -- interacting with
   young children around books and reading. In fact, storytime was my
   favorite time of the day, and I was constantly thrilled at how reading
   opened up new worlds for the children and sparked their imaginations.

   However, this was also a time when I observed that some children were
   having difficulty learning to read. It was troubling to watch these
   little ones struggle with print, but it was even more troubling to see
   how embarrassed and frustrated they were by their failure to do what
   they saw other children do. It was as if their self-esteem and
   confidence took a blow every time they tried to read.

   For many of these children, I could see that they didn't feel
   comfortable in school -- it was not a place that they wanted to be, and
   I noticed that they began to avoid reading. Later, as a librarian, I
   also noticed that some teachers held lower expectations for these
   children even though many were very bright and quite adept at other
   skills.

   Many of these children were having difficulties learning to read
   because they had not developed the basic building blocks of language
   during their preschool years -- the building blocks that are forged
   through language play, lap-time reading, bedtime stories and the
   conversations about the characters and the situations that the stories
   brought to life.

   Why was this basic foundation missing? In some cases, the children's
   parents had not learned to read themselves and could not read to their
   children. In some cases, limited income meant no books in the home. In
   some cases, parents' work schedules simply precluded any routine
   conversation, language play, or interactions with books if they were
   available.

   In yet other cases, parents and caregivers simply did not know the
   importance of reading to and engaging their children in word play. As a
   result, their children were less exposed to language. Some children may
   have had learning problems, making learning to read difficult.

   In short, I saw firsthand that many children simply did not have the
   early opportunities that help to develop a love for language and
   reading. And I learned that not having those opportunities can have
   devastating effects on children's success in school. I realized that,
   for many children, being left behind did not begin in elementary school
   -- it began in the years between diapers and their first backpacks.

   I also realized that something had to be done. There simply is no
   excuse for any of our youngest and most vulnerable children to be
   forced to climb uphill just as they enter school. It is a tough enough
   transition as is. No matter what their circumstances of birth, we have
   to strive to level the playing field for those youngsters born into
   conditions that limit opportunities to develop and learn.

   Over the years, I have been blessed to be surrounded by people who are
   passionate about education. My parents nurtured my love of reading
   before I started school; Mrs. Gnagy, my 2nd grade teacher, inspired me
   to become a teacher; my in-laws, who, even in retirement, promote
   strong schools and literacy programs; and, of course, my husband who
   shares our fellow Texan Phyllis Hunter's philosophy that reading is the
   new civil right.

   Last July, I convened a White House Summit on Early Childhood Cognitive
   Development at Georgetown University. Many experts and practitioners
   came together to help us understand how to help all of our children
   become ready to read and ready to learn.

   I am delighted that Senator Kennedy participated in the Summit, and
   inspired us with his dedication to this issue.

   My specific purpose in convening the summit was to develop a clear
   understanding of what parents, grandparents, early childhood teachers,
   childcare providers, and other caregivers can systematically do to
   provide children with rich and rewarding early experiences during this
   period of development that is marked by extraordinary growth and
   change.

   I asked the participants to focus on early cognitive development with
   an emphasis on the development of early language and pre-reading
   abilities. I wanted to make sure that all of us understood how these
   skills, or their absence, affect a child's later ability to read and
   thus succeed in school.

   While my focus is on early language and pre-reading development, I do
   not want to minimize the importance of nutrition and physical
   development or the development of feelings, behavior, and social
   skills. To address early cognitive development, including language and
   literacy development, outside of the context of social and emotional
   development, would limit the progress that we can make. All of these
   competencies are intertwined and each requires focused attention.

   But, the development of early language and pre-reading skills is not
   only extraordinarily critical to a child's reading ability and academic
   success throughout school, as well as his or her occupational success
   throughout life, the absence of this development has the potential to
   destroy self-esteem, confidence, and motivation to learn.

   The teaching of vocabulary concepts and other language skills and
   pre-reading skill to include print concepts, letter knowledge and
   phonological concepts in preschool programs has not been emphasized
   enough in the past and has not received the critical attention it
   needs.

   Why? Many early childhood educators and parents have thought that early
   learning was primarily maturational and that preschool children "were
   not developmentally ready" to learn about letters, sounds, writing,
   numbers, vocabulary concepts or other sophisticated content.

   Conventional wisdom has been that it is best to wait to encourage young
   children to read, count, and learn abstract concepts because they will
   get enough of that in school. The idea has been that teaching this type
   of content too early may interfere with the motivation to learn once
   children arrive at school.

   But we have learned that this is not the case. The infant brain
   actually seeks out and acquires a tremendous amount of information
   about language in the first year of life.

   Even before babies can speak, they have already figured out many of the
   components of language. They know which particular sounds their
   language uses, what sounds can be combined to create words, and the
   tempo and rhythm of words and phrases.

   Why is this information important? Because developmental science has
   taught us that there is a strong connection between early language
   development and reading. Language and reading require the same types of
   sound analysis. The better babies are at distinguishing the building
   blocks of speech at six months, the better they will be at other more
   complex language skills at two and three years of age, and the easier
   it will be for them at four and five years to grasp the idea of how
   sounds link to letters.

   Preschool cognitive abilities, including language and pre-reading
   abilities, can predict school success and school completion. For
   example, reading scores in the 9th grade can be predicted with
   surprising accuracy from a child's knowledge of the alphabet in
   kindergarten.

   Children need help learning these concepts -- they do not develop
   naturally. A child will not learn the name of the letter "A", the sound
   the letter "A" makes or how to print it simply by being with adults who
   know these things, or by being with adults who read a great deal for
   pleasure. Children learn these critical concepts because adults take
   the time and effort to teach them in an exciting, engaging, and
   interactive manner.

   This does not mean that preschool children should be taught using the
   same methods and materials that are used with first and second graders.
   The challenge for the parent, the grandparent, the preschool teacher,
   or the childcare provider is to develop fun, educational language
   activities that also engage and develop children's interests, social
   competencies, and emotional health. All of these goals can be joined
   and met, but there must be a clear and equal emphasis on building
   cognitive skills.

   Every expert who participated in the White House Summit on Early
   Childhood Cognitive Development stressed that reading is the keystone
   for academic and life success. A failure to learn to read not only
   leads to failure in school, but portends failure throughout life.

   Not only are children humiliated emotionally and socially in school
   because of this failure, but they are unable to learn about the wonders
   of science, mathematics, literature, and other subjects because they
   cannot read grade-level texts. By high school, the student who cannot
   read has almost no dream of attending college and can only look forward
   to meager occupational choices.

   It is no wonder that 10 to 15 percent of poor readers drop out of
   school. And with their limited options, they are more than twice as
   likely as successful students to be unemployed after dropping out, to
   be arrested or to engage in substance abuse.

   Reading failure pushes beyond school failure and occupational
   hardships. Without sufficient reading skills, a person cannot read a
   prescription, decipher a warning label, or keep up with news.

   Reading failure does not just constitute an educational issue -- it
   reflects a significant public health problem. And, with great anguish
   we note that parents who cannot read cannot engage their own children
   in reading activities.

   During our Summit, we learned that there are effective early language
   and cognitive development strategies that can be used at home and in
   preschool that can ensure that many children at risk of failure now can
   enter their first classroom ready to read and ready to learn.

   We can begin to disseminate and implement the principles applied in
   these strategies as quickly as possible through our colleges and
   universities, professional organizations, libraries, and research
   programs.

   The best scientific knowledge of "what works" is only effective when it
   is provided in an informed manner. The early childhood field needs
   better curriculum that does a better job of helping young children with
   their pre-reading and language skills.

   President Bush has asked Secretary Rod Paige and Secretary Tommy
   Thompson to convene a task force on early childhood development to
   identify priorities for research to address these critical issues.

   A team of scientists and educators from the National Institutes of
   Health, the Department of Education, and the Department of Health and
   Human Services is moving forward with plans to produce materials that
   will help parents, preschools and child care programs know more about
   enhancing cognitive development. They will also identify and conduct
   the research necessary to close critical knowledge gaps. Secretary
   Paige and Secretary Thompson will share their findings with all of you
   as well.

   In closing, I want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss these
   important issues with you today. They are national issues that affect
   the heart and soul of our people.

   Education has always been important to our nation, but since September
   11th we appreciate its importance even more because we want America to
   always be the land of opportunity and to have the kind of internal
   strength that comes from every child and every citizen having a great
   education.

   From day one, the education we provide our children will shape the way
   they think and learn. The quality of their education will either drive
   or stifle the enthusiasm, motivation, and effort they bring to
   learning, the way they interact with others, and their ability to adapt
   to their successes and failures throughout life.

   We are embarking on a most noble mission to help their journey become
   as fulfilling and productive as possible. This is their birthright.

   I appreciate your inviting me here today, Senator Kennedy. I commend
   your efforts and those of Senator Gregg and all of the Committee
   members to ensure that all our children have a strong language and
   pre-reading foundation before they board their first school bus. I look
   forward to our work on behalf of America's youngest children. Together,
   we will ensure that no child is left behind.

                                     ###
     __________________________________________________________________

              This page last modified—January 24, 2002 (smj).
   Technical questions about the Web site: webmaster@inet.ed.gov
   Other inquiries/comments: customerservice@inet.ed.gov
