http://fusion-energy.llnl.gov

   FEP Public Home Page

   Privacy & Legal Notice
       IFE
       MFE
       Publications
       Presentations
       Meetings
       Related Links
   [button-blank.gif]

   Introduction

   The Fusion Energy Program (FEP) is part of the Physics and Advanced
   Technologies (PAT) Directorate at LLNL. The mission of the FEP is to
   develop, in collaboration with national and international partners, the
   science and technology required to pursue fusion energy. LLNL
   scientists and engineers carry out research on both Inertial Fusion
   Energy (IFE) and Magnetic Fusion Energy (MFE), including R&D in the
   following major categories:
     * MFE Plasma Theory and Modeling
     * MFE Experiments
     * MFE Technology
     * Heavy Ion Drivers for IFE
     * IFE Target Physics
     * IFE Technology
     * Fusion Materials

   We collaborate closely with other fusion institutions, including major
   partnering roles in experiments on the DIIID tokamak and in the Heavy
   Ion Fusion (HIF) Virtual National Laboratory (VNL). We also participate
   in National Nuclear Security Agency (NNSA) funded research on Inertial
   Confinement Fusion and laser-driven IFE. The FEP currently has two
   major experiments: the Spheromak for MFE and the Source Test Stand
   (STS) for HIF.

   The principal goals of the FEP are:
     * Develop a comprehensive predictive modeling capability, well
       benchmarked against experiments, for both MFE and IFE.
     * Capitalize on Livermore strengths to establish new, and strengthen
       existing, roles in key elements of the experimental and technology
       programs of leading approaches to IFE and MFE.
     * Pursue high leverage concepts in MFE and IFE that advance the
       knowledge base of fusion science and could result in improved
       approaches to fusion energy.

   The Beam Research Program is also part of the FEP. This program element
   is developing advanced technology for DARHT (Dual Axis Radiographic
   Hydrodynamics Test) and compact accelerators for radiography and other
   applications. The physics and technology being developed by the Beam
   Research Program have potential applications in HIF and other
   accelerator-based programs.

   LLNL Public Home Page

   PAT Public Home Page
   [bar-fe.gif]
   UCRL -WEB-146755 Updated 23-Jan-2002
