http://www.epa.gov/adminweb/about.htm

   Skip common site navigation and headers
   United States Environmental Protection Agency
   Office of the Administrator

      Contact Us | Print Version Search: __________ Search

   Begin Hierarchical Links EPA Home > Office of the Administrator > About
   the Administrator End Hierarchical Links



   Programs
   Functions
   Offices
   Biography
   Speeches & Testimony
   Agency News
   EPA Home


About the Administrator

                Photograph of Christie Whitman, Administrator


 Biography

                                                                    [En Español]

     Christie Whitman was sworn in as EPA Administrator on January 31,
     2001. Prior to that, Whitman served as the 50th Governor of New
     Jersey.

     In testimony before the U.S. Senate on January 17, Whitman said she
     believed environmental and economic goals go hand in hand and that
     she would continue her record of working to forge strong
     partnerships among citizens, government and business to produce
     measurable environmental results of cleaner air, water and land.

     As governor of New Jersey, Whitman developed a strong environmental
     record, providing cleaner air, water and land than when she was
     first elected in November 1993. Under her environmental leadership,
     New Jersey's air became significantly cleaner. The number of days
     New Jersey violated the federal one-hour air quality standard for
     ground level ozone dropped from 45 in 1988 to four in 2000. The
     state is on target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions below 1990
     levels.

     New Jersey's waterways, coasts and ocean waters also became
     significantly cleaner. Beach closings reached a record low and the
     state earned recognition by the Natural Resources Defense Council
     for instituting the most comprehensive beach monitoring system in
     the nation. The Governor won voter approval for a plan to break a
     longstanding impasse over dredging the state's ports that is both
     environmentally acceptable and economical. She established a new
     watershed management program. New Jersey now leads the nation in
     opening shellfish beds for harvesting.

     As a preservationist, Governor Whitman won voter approval for the
     state's first stable funding source to preserve one million more
     acres of open space and farmland in ten years. By 2010, New Jersey
     will have permanently preserved 40 percent of its total landmass,
     with more than half preserved during her tenure. She is an advocate
     for "smart growth" and in New Jersey she encouraged new growth in
     cities and other areas where roads, sewers and schools are already
     in place. She encouraged redevelopment of cities through programs to
     streamline cleanups of abandoned industrial "brownfield" sites.

     Whitman was New Jersey's first female governor. She appointed New
     Jersey's first African American State Supreme Court Justice, its
     first female State Supreme Court Chief Justice and its first female
     Attorney General.

     Prior to becoming governor, Whitman headed the New Jersey Board of
     Public Utilities and the Somerset County Board of Freeholders. She
     grew up in Hunterdon County, N.J. and earned a bachelor's degree in
     government from Wheaton College in Massachusetts in 1968. She is
     married to John R. Whitman and has two children.

     More information about the Office of the Administrator is available.



                   Begin Site Footer

   EPA Home | Privacy and Security Notice | Contact Us
