http://www.census.ca.gov/public_meeting_notice.htm

   NOTE: THIS MEETING HAS BEEN CANCELLED AND WILL BE RESCHEDULED SHORTLY.

                          NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING

                 California Complete Count Committee Meeting

                         June 12, 2001 -- 2:00 p.m.

                   1215 K Street, 14^th Floor, Sacramento

               California Room, California Chamber of Commerce

   The California Complete Count Committee will conduct a public meeting
   on Tuesday,
   June 12, 2001. The meeting will begin at 2:00 p.m. at the California
   Room, California Chamber of Commerce, 1215 K Street, 14^th Floor, in
   Sacramento, California.

   Agenda Item Presenter
   Welcome: Opening Remarks and Introductions  Secretary Maria
   Contreras-Sweet, Chair
   CCC Campaign Summary: Quantitative Results Jorge Jackson, CCC Campaign
   Director, Deputy Secretary for Business Regulation
   U.S. Census Bureau Analysis: Beyond the Raw Data Michael Burns, Deputy
   Regional Director, Assistant Regional Director for Seattle

   Steve Alnwick, Assistant Regional Census Manager for Los Angeles,
   Assistant Regional Census Manager
   CCC Campaigns Impact on the California Count Linda Gage, California
   Department of Finance Chief Demographics Unit
   Report Update: Electronic Versions of TV, Radio, and Print Commercials
   Ditas Katague, CCC Campaign Deputy Director, Assistant Secretary for
   Information Technology
   Budget and Administrative Update Jorge Jackson, CCC Campaign Director,
   Deputy Secretary for Business Regulation
   Public Comment Jorge Jackson, CCC Campaign Director, Deputy Secretary
   for Business Regulation
   Closing and Thank You Remarks Secretary Maria Contreras-Sweet, Chair

   Jorge Jackson, CCC Campaign Director, Deputy Secretary for Business
   Regulation



   For more information, please contact Ditas Katague at (916) 324-7516.

    Notification cards of public comment on any committee agenda item will
   be accepted at the beginning of the meeting. Agenda items occur
   sequentially. Public comment for those agenda items with an action will
   be taken at the time of that agenda item. All other public comment will
   be taken at the end of all the agenda items, or at the discretion of
   the chair. When circumstances warrant, the Chair may modify the order
   of items as they appear on the agenda. Any committee agenda item may be
   brought to the Committee at their next meeting.
