http://www.opm.gov/insure/ltc/index.htm

   Skip to Content
   Link to OPM Home Page

   Link to the Most Frequently Asked Questions page



          To LTC Partners Website
                 Proposed
   Product
   Design
                  Updated
   Frequently
   Asked
   Questions
    Contractor Selection Press Release
   Contractor Selection Web Announcement
                    LTC
   Facts
               Articles and
   Consumer Tips
                   State
   LTC Tax
   Incentives
                    The
   Legislation
                  Related
   Sites
               Info. for HR
   Professionals


                                Federal Diary
                           ONLINE CHAT TRANSCRIPT

   Read the transcript of an online chat about the Federal Long Term Care
   Insurance Program hosted by Steve Barr, Federal Diary columnist with
   the Washington Post, on December 19th.

       Go to links to State Government pages of services for seniors.

   You are here: OPM Home > Insurance > Federal Long Term Care Insurance

                    U. S. Office of Personnel Management
                  Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program
                                  (FLTCIP)

   The U.S. Office of Personnel Management is sponsoring a high-quality
   long term care insurance program for members of the Federal Family. We
   contracted with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and John Hancock
   Life Insurance Company, who have come together as LTC Partners to
   provide this insurance.

   The long term care insurance program is not available YET, but it will
   be soon. We will have an early enrollment opportunity from March 25
   through May 15 and an open season from July 1 through December 31,
   2002.


                        Link to FLTCIP Bulletin Board

   Who Will Be Eligible to Apply for this Long Term Care Insurance?

   Frequently asked questions on . . .

                              Early Enrollment
                             March 25 — May 15
                                 Open Season
                            July 1 — December 31

                               Bulletin Board



   Pin Pin
   January 27, 2002 —

   YES we have dates for the early enrollment and open season! The early
   enrollment will run from March 25 - May 15. This enrollment is designed
   ONLY for those who've done their homework and already know about long
   term care and long term care insurance. For most people, early
   enrollment is not a good idea — they need the benefits of the extensive
   educational campaign that LTC Partners is preparing. For those people,
   the open season starting July 1 is the time to apply for enrollment in
   this new program. The open season runs from July 1 through December 31,
   2002. There will be staggered 60 day enrollment periods within the open
   season.

   Further information is available in our new Early Enrollment and Open
   Season Frequently Asked Questions. We will expand these FAQs as we
   refine our plans. We've always been open with what we're doing and how
   we're progressing, so we wanted to give you this limited information
   now, with details coming later.


         Click Here to Get on the Mailing List for More Information

       Pin Pin
       Prefer to get on the Mailing List by phone? Call 1-800-LTC-FEDS
       (1-800-582-3337).

   Pin Pin
   January 25, 2002 —

   Who is in the Selected Reserve? Selected Reserve members are eligible
   for our Long Term Care Insurance coverage. A newly posted FAQ explains
   who is in the Selected Reserve.

   Link to the Bulletin Board Archive

   Did you know? . . .

   Did you know that 22 states allow either a deduction from your state
   taxes or a state tax credit for purchasing long term care insurance?
   Wonder why they allow these incentives? Because, for most people,
   buying long term care insurance is a GOOD thing to do! State tax
   deductions and credits help encourage people to buy the insurance. Take
   a look and see if your state is one of the 22.
   Posted November 23, 2001

   Read all of our Long Term Care Facts.

                                                    (To further background
                                                              information)

                    Federal Employees Health Benefits   |
        Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance   |   Retirement   |
      OPM Web Privacy Policy  |  OPM Web Site Index   |   OPM Home Page


    Please send your questions and comments on the Federal Long Term Care
    Insurance Program to ltc@opm.gov. Please send your comments on these
    web pages to insure-webmaster@opm.gov.

   Page updated 27 January 2002
