http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/lower_big_blue_nrd.asp

   Lower Big Blue NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

[lowerbigblue.gif]      LOWER BIG BLUE NRD

   Office Information

   Walter J. Valasek
   District Conservationist
                           200 N. 24th Street, Suite 3
                           Beatrice, NE 68310-3427
                                                      Phone: (402) 223-3125
                                                      Fax: (402) 223-4585

     Directory for Lower Big Blue NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services

     Lower Big Blue NRD homepage
   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   Walter J. Valasek
   District Conservationist
   Lower Big Blue NRD
   I grew up on a farm in Central Nebraska located southwest of Spalding,
   Nebraska.
   1971 -- Received Bachelor of Science Degree in Agronomy, University of
   Nebraska-Lincoln.
   Upon graduation from UNL, I began working for NRCS (SCS) in June, 1971
   as a Soil Conservationist at the Ord Field Office. I transferred as a
   Soil Conservationist to North Platte Field Office in May, 1972. I
   became District Conservationist in the Auburn Field Office in April,
   1974. I then moved to my present position of District Conservationist
   at the Beatrice Field Office in May, 1977.
   Resource Needs and Concerns
   The Lower Big Blue Natural Resources District is located in southeast
   Nebraska and consists of 1,054,000 acres in Gage, Saline, Jefferson,
   and Pawnee County. The majority of the district, 75% or 770,000 acres
   consists of cropland. there is 170,000 acres of pivot and furrow
   irrigation. The irrigation in the area is limited by the lack of
   adequate groundwater.
   The area is highly dissected with the predominate soil type being silty
   clay loam on slopes ranging from 1% to 10%. The low permeability of the
   soil, topography, and high- intensity rainfall, are major contributors
   to excessive sheet, rill, ephemeral, and gully erosion, if conservation
   practices are not present. Lowland areas are also subject to excessive
   flooding.
   The following are the resource concerns identified by the Lower Big
   Blue NRD.
     * Soil erosion on cropland
     * Flood control and prevention
     * Surface Water Quality - nutrient and pesticide
     * Groundwater quality
     * Irrigation Efficiency
     * Grazingland - health and productivity
     * Development and management of recreation facilities
     * Quantity and quality of wildlife habitat
     * Animal Waste Management

   Priorities Addressed by NRCS
   The NRCS provides the primary source of technical expertise and
   assistance to address the priorities identified by the NRD and local
   work group. Reduced cropland erosion is obtained through the planning,
   layout, and design of terraces, waterways, tile outlets, diversions,
   sediment and erosion control structures, dams, and conservation tillage
   systems.
   Water Quality concerns are addressed through many of the erosion
   control practices, plus practices such as Nutrient and Pest Management,
   Irrigation Water Management, and Animal Waste Utilization.
   The Central Blue Valley Hydrologic Unit Area was established in 1990,
   and later extended in 1995, addresses many of these water quality
   concerns. The project encompasses many of these water quality concerns.
   The project encompasses 92,160 acres in Gage, Saline, and Jefferson
   counties. The HUA is a joint project with considerable cooperation
   between three different NRCS, FSA, and Cooperative Extension offices
   and the Lower Big Blue NRD.
   The primary purpose of the project is to reduce the input of nutrients
   and pesticides used within this area which supports a large percentage
   of irrigation. The area also has a shallow water table accompanied by
   extremely high nitrate levels in some irrigation and domestic wells.
   The aquifer in the area serves as the source of water for Beatrice,
   Filley, Dewitt, and Plymouth.
   The primary practices are Nutrient and Pest Management, Irrigation
   Water Management, reuse pitts, buried underground lines, and
   installation of animal waste systems.
   The NRD has designated part of this area as a Groundwater Management
   Area due to high nitrate levels.
   Wildlife concerns are met by installation of wildlife plantings, tree
   and shrub establishment, and grass seeding.
   Erosion, water quality, and wildlife habitat continutes to be addressed
   through the Conservation Reserve Program.
   Due to extensive flooding in the NRD, flood control has been, and
   continues to be a high priority.
   There are 11 completed PL-566 watershed projects in the district. There
   have been 180 flood control dams and 73 grade control dams built. Six
   of these structures are also utilized as multi-purpose structures,
   providing recreational facilities to the public. Two of the watersheds
   have received additional funding for the installation of conservation
   practices to improve water quality and reduce erosion.
   An NRD small dams program continues to provide funding to reduce
   flooding and erosion problems. NRCS provides the technical expertise
   for these projects.
   Many of the erosion and water quality problems are addressed through
   the Environmental Quality Incentive Program (EQIP).
   EQIP Priority Areas
   Lower Turkey Creek, a 120,000 acre area located in Saline County (with
   a small portion in Gage county), was approved in FY 1997, as an EQIP
   priority area. 96,000 acres of Lower Turkey Creek is cropland. The area
   consists primarily of small farms with numerous limited resource
   producers raising traditional crops, but has a tremendous potential for
   forestry, wildlife management, and recreation.
   Objectives are to reduce flooding, restore riparian areas, reduce soil
   erosion, improve soil health, and increase range condition. A network
   of small flood control structures with donated land rights will address
   flooding problems. NRD funds are being combined with EQIP dollars to
   increase the number of dams built. Diversions with tile outlets will
   control the grade problems of waterways entering the streams. Terrace
   systems will control soil erosion and grade problems. Grazing lands
   will be improved with planned grazing system, cross fencing, and
   livestock watering facilities. Soil health will be improved by working
   with crop rotations and nutrient management (including livestock
   manure). Riparian Buffer areas will be restored through establishment
   of trees and grasses. Shallow water habitat areas will be restored or
   constructed with Fish and Wildlife funds.
   Educational efforts concentrate on riparian buffers, soil
   sustainability, and water quality.
   Beatrice Tribbs was approved for funding in FY 1999. The project area
   consists of a number of small tributaries which drain directly into the
   Big Blue River and two major tributaries, Bottle Creek and Bill Creek.
   Most of the area is on the west side of the Big Blue river from
   Beatrice to the Kansas border.
   The project encompasses 67,300 acres of which 45,000 acres are
   cropland.
   Resource concerns that will be addressed are the quantity and quality
   of the groundwater and surface water as it relates to excessive water
   erosion, nutrient management, pesticide management, animal waste
   management, agricultural leaching or runoff, streambank erosion,
   flooding, irrigation water management, loss of wetland, loss of Big
   Blue River riparian and buffer strips, declining wildlife habitat and
   grassland management.
   The Horseshoe Creed watershed, which is located in southwest Gage, was
   approved as a joint EQIP project between Nebraska and Kansas. The
   project was approved in FY 1998. The state of Kansas, Horseshoe Creek
   watershed district and the NRCS are presently developed watershed plan
   for the watershed to control flooding along Horshshoe Creek.
   The objectives of the project are to reduce erosion, improve water
   quality, reduce flooding, improve livestock management and
   establishment of animal waste systems.
   Primary programs and services
   A variety of programs are available to help land users with their
   resource concerns, in the district, they include:
     * ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVE PROGRAM (EQIP)
     * WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM (WHIP)
     * WETLAND RESERVE PROGRAM (WRP)
     * NEBRASKA SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAM (NSWCP)
     * NATURAL RESOURCES DISTRICT COST SHARE PROGRAM
     * CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM (CRP)
     * PL-556 WATERSHED AND LAND TREATMENT
     * GREAT PLAINS PROGRAM (GP)
     * NATURAL RESOURCE DISTRICT SMALL DAMS PROGRAM
     * NEBRASKA BUFFER PROGRAM
     * PHEASANTS FOREVER
     * NEBRASKA GAME AND PARKS
     * FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
     * RAIN WATER BASIN JOIN VENTURE PROGRAM

   Please contact your local NRCS office for more information on specific
   programs or services that may be of interest to you.


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
