http://www-pao.ksc.nasa.gov/kscpao/home/privacy.html

              John F. Kennedy - Security and Privacy Statement

   KSC Home Page Site Search FAQ Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement Headlines

      Privacy Statement
   NASA/KSC Home Page Privacy Policy

   NASA / Kennedy Space Center is committed to maintaining your confidence
   and trust. This policy establishes how we will use the information we
   gather about you during your visit to our website. The privacy of our
   customers is of utmost importance to NASA.

   Basic Confidentiality Policy

   It is the policy of this web site that personal information (such as
   your name, postal and e-mail addresses, telephone number etc) is
   private and confidential. We will never require you to provide personal
   information on this web site. However, if you choose to provide it to
   us, such as in an E-mail message, the information will be kept in a
   secure location accessible only by designated staff, and will be used
   only for the purposes for which you provided the information.

   If you also indicate on our site that you would like to receive
   information from NASA, such as Shuttle Status reports, KSC Press
   Releases, or other publications, your E-mail address will be added to
   the KSC mailing list. We will not ask for or associate your name, phone
   number or any other personal information with your E-mail address. If
   at any time you would like to add or remove your name from the mailing
   list, follow the instructions on the Web site at
   http://kscnews.ksc.nasa.gov.

   No Release of Information to Third Parties

   Personal information will not be released to third parties except to
   further the purpose for which you provide the information, such as
   forwarding your request to an appropriate party for action, or if
   release is required by law or is pertinent to judicial or governmental
   investigations or proceedings. There are no other circumstances under
   which we will provide or sell personal information to third parties.

   No Computer Tracking of Identifiable Information

   Our computer systems do not track, collect or distribute personal
   information about visitors. We do record network addresses (ie: IP
   numbers), but not e-mail addresses. For example, we can tell which
   company, school or country our visitors come from but not their name,
   addresses or other information that would allow us to identify
   individuals. This information is used only for internal purposes by our
   technical support staff or for computer security purposes.

   In addition, we track information about the visits to our web sites and
   compile statistics that show the daily number of visitors, daily
   requests received for particular files and what countries those
   requests come from. These aggregated statistics are used internally to
   better provide services to the public and are also be provided to
   others. However, the statistics contain no personal information and
   cannot be used to gather such information.

      Security Statement

   Information from this web server resides on a computer system operated
   and funded by a U.S. Government agency. The use of this computer system
   may be monitored for computer security purposes. Any unauthorized
   access to this system is prohibited and is subject to criminal and
   civil penalties under Federal Laws including but no limited to Public
   Laws 83-703 and 99-474.


                              Page Last Revised

                         Page & Curator Information

   08/28/01

       Curator: Kay Grinter kay.grinter-1@ksc.nasa.gov / InDyne, Inc.
                 Web Development: JBOSC Web Development Team
    A service of the NASA/KSC External Relations and Business Development
                                Directorate:
   JoAnn H. Morgan, Director
