http://ccld.ca.gov/docs/precedentcover.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CCLD Home
                          Facility Types
                          Search for a Facility
                          Licensing Forms
                          Employment
                          District Offices
                          Community Care Updates
                          Regulations
                          An Overview of Licensing
                          Provider Letters
                          Index to Precedent
                          Links
                          Website Comments
                          Website Search
                          Internal Applications



   CCL Administrative Actions



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Decisions Relied Upon as Precedent

   What is a Precedent?

   "Precedent" is a group of decisions which include significant legal or
   policy determinations, and are designed to guide an Administrative Law
   Judge in deciding cases involving the Department of Social Services,
   Community Care Licensing Division. The authority to establish precedent
   for administrative matters, by identifying cases and certifying them,
   was established fairly recently although precedent is used routinely by
   judges in other civil cases and in criminal cases. The Department first
   adopted a number of decisions as precedent, in May of 1999. Precedent
   is important to parties in a legal case involving the Department,
   because the precedent establishes what the Department has done in the
   past, and why. The procedures that apply to an administrative case are
   in the Administrative Procedures Act and are more fully described by
   the Office of Administrative Hearings, which assigns judges to make the
   decisions in the cases.

   http://www.dgs.ca.gov/oah/Offices/proper.htm This link will provide you
   with general information on the procedure, including information
   designed to assist the person representing themselves.

   In what type of cases does the Department’s precedent apply?

   The precedent applies to cases involving the Department of Social
   Services, an operator or applicant for a care facility, or an
   individual who resides in, works in, or is present in a care facility.
   Each of the decisions, which altogether constitute the precedent, are
   cases involving a care facility regulated by the Department of Social
   Services, Community Care Licensing Division. If someone is unclear as
   to whether a particular decision certified as precedent, applies to
   their case, they should present it to the Administrative Law Judge
   before or during the administrative hearing. Precedent is binding upon
   any case filed by the Department, to the extent that a case involves
   the same facts, legal or policy issues determined in the precedent.

   How is a decision, which is relied upon as precedent, used?

   The Administrative Law Judge is required to apply the principles of the
   Department’s precedent, to the extent that the facts and issues are the
   same. The judge’s final decision must be consistent with the
   precedential decisions. An attorney for the Department may, in an
   administrative case, bring one or more of the decisions to the
   Administrative Law Judge’s attention when it appears that the facts and
   other issues are the same or similar. If you are a respondent in a case
   involving the Department’s Community Care Licensing Division, and you
   believe that one or more of the decisions which the department
   identified as precedent is binding in your case, you should inform the
   Department and Administrative Law Judge at the time of the hearing or
   before the hearing.

   Is there a summary of the Department’s precedent available to me?

   Yes. The Department publishes an index which contains a summary of each
   of the cases which have been designated at precedent. The case number
   consists of the year the case was designated as precedent, followed by
   "CDSS" to indicate the California Department of Social Services,
   followed by a chronological number. You should use the name of the case
   along with the decision number, when you request a copy of a particular
   decision.

   How can I obtain a copy of Department precedent?

   Decisions designated as precedent, as well as the index, are available
   here on the Department’s Community Care Licensing Division web site.
   Copies of these decisions may also be requested by contacting the
   Department’s Public Affairs Office at Department of Social Services,
   Public Affairs, MS 17-09, 744 P Street, Sacramento, CA. 95814. A charge
   of 10 cents per page will be assessed if your request exceeds 100
   pages.

     * Index of Decisions Designated as Precedent


                             Back to Top of Page

            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
