http://www.ustreas.gov/opc/opc0042.html

                         Green horizontal line image
    Treasury Seal The Learning Vault Treasury Seal Green horizontal line
                                    image

                         The Duties and Functions of
                          the Treasury Department,
                           its Offices and Bureaus

   The Department of the Treasury is organized into two major components:
   the Departmental offices and the operating bureaus. The Departmental
   Offices are primarily responsible for the formulation of policy and
   management of the Department as a whole, while the operating bureaus
   carry out the specific operations assigned to the Department. Our
   bureaus make up 98% of the Treasury work force. The basic functions of
   the Department of the Treasury include:

     * Managing Federal finances;
     * Collecting taxes, duties and monies paid to and due to the United
       States and paying all bills of the United States;
     * Producing all postage stamps, currency and coinage;
     * Managing Government accounts and the public debt;
     * Supervising national banks and thrift institutions;
     * Advising on domestic and international financial, monetary,
       economic, trade and tax policy;
     * Enforcing Federal finance and tax laws;
     * Investigating and prosecuting tax evaders, counterfeiters, forgers,
       smugglers, illicit spirits distillers, and gun law violators;
     * Protecting the President, Vice President, their families,
       candidates for those offices, foreign missions resident in
       Washington and visiting foreign dignitaries.

   We have listed below the major duties and functions of each Treasury
   Department office and bureau, along with the types of occupations that
   accompany each one, where appropriate. To obtain specific employment
   material from any of these offices and bureaus, you should contact the
   appropriate Personnel Officers. The links below will help you navigate
   to the information available for each specific office or bureau.

   You can read more about the mission and goals of Treasury's offices and
   bureaus by viewing our Strategic Plan, or go directly to our Bureaus
   for more information.

                         Green horizontal line image

                                Main Treasury

                  Departmental
                    Offices   Secretary of
                              the Treasury Deputy Secretary
                                           of the Treasury

   Chief of
   Staff   Executive
           Secretary Skip past Inspector General to Domestic Finance Inspector
                     General

              Treasurer of the
               United States  Under Secretary
                               (Enforcement)   Under Secretary
                                             (Domestic Finance)

                               Under Secretary
     (International Affairs) Skip past Assistant Secretary (Legislative
   Affairs) to Fiscal Assistant Secretary Assistant Secretary (Legislative
               Affairs) Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy)

       Assistant Secretary
       (Management)/Chief
       Financial Officer  Assistant Secretary
                          (Financial Markets)   Assistant Secretary
                                              (Financial Institutions)

                                   Fiscal
                   Assistant Secretary Assistant Secretary
   (Tax Policy) Skip past Assistant Secretary (Public Affairs) to Training
                         Center Assistant Secretary
                              (Public Affairs)

                        Assistant Secretary
                        (Enforcement)

                                              General
                                              Counsel

                         Green horizontal line image

                             Treasury's Bureaus

                 Comptroller of
                 the Currency  Internal Revenue
                                   Service     United States
                                                   Mint

            Bureau of Engraving
               and Printing    Financial Management
                                     Service       Bureau of the
                                                   Public Debt

     Bureau of Alcohol,
   Tobacco, and Firearms Office of Thrift
                           Supervision   Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

   Skip past United States Savings Bonds Division to Community Development
                     Financial Institutions Savings Bond
                              Marketing Office

                                United States
                               Secret Service

                                United States
                               Customs Service

         Financial Crimes
        Enforcement Network

                            Community Development
                           Financial Institutions

                                                 Treasury Forfeiture
                                                 Fund

                         Green horizontal line image

                            Departmental Offices

   The Departmental Offices are composed of divisions headed by Assistant
   Secretaries who report to the Secretary of the Treasury, the Deputy
   Secretary of the Treasury, and several report to either the Under
   Secretary for International Affairs, the Under Secretary for Domestic
   Finance, or the Under Secretary for Enforcement. Most of these
   divisions are located within the Main Treasury Building in Washington,
   D.C.

                         Green horizontal line image

                          Secretary of the Treasury

   The Secretary of the Treasury is the principal economic advisor to the
   President and plays a critical role in policy-making by bringing an
   economic and government financial policy perspective to issues facing
   the government.  The Secretary is responsible for formulating and
   recommending domestic and international financial, economic, and tax
   policy, participating in the formulation of broad fiscal policies that
   have general significance for the economy, and managing the public
   debt. The Secretary oversees the activities of the Department in
   carrying out its major law enforcement responsibilities; in serving as
   the financial agent for the United States Government; and in
   manufacturing coins and currency.

   The Chief Financial Officer of the government, the Secretary serves as
   Chairman Pro Tempore of the President's Economic Policy Council,
   Chairman of the Boards and Managing Trustee of the Social Security and
   Medicare Trust Funds, and as U.S. Governor of the International
   Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development
   Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

                         Green horizontal line image

                      Deputy Secretary of the Treasury

   The Deputy Secretary of the Treasury advises and assists the Secretary
   in the supervision and direction of the Department and its activities,
   and succeeds the Secretary in his absence, sickness, or unavailability.
   The Deputy Secretary plays a primary role in the formulation and
   execution of Treasury policies and programs in all aspects of the
   Department's activities.

                         Green horizontal line image

                       Treasurer of the United States

   This is the only office within the Treasury Department older than the
   Department itself. It was established on September 6, 1777. The
   Treasurer was originally charged with the receipt and custody of
   government funds, though many of these functions have been taken over
   by different bureaus of the Department of the Treasury. Responsibility
   for oversight of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the United
   States Mint, and the United States Savings Bonds Division (now the
   Savings Bond Marketing Office within the Bureau of the Public Debt) was
   assigned to the Treasurer in 1981. The Treasurer reports to the
   Secretary of the Treasury through the Assistant Secretary
   (Management)/Chief Financial Officer.

                                  Green Bar

                       Under Secretary for Enforcement

   The office of the Under Secretary was established in 1994, to enhance
   the Treasury Department's law enforcement efforts. The Under Secretary
   reports to the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury.

    The Under Secretary is responsible for coordinating all Treasury law
    enforcement matters including the formulation of policies for all
    Treasury enforcement activities and cooperating on law enforcement
    matters with other Federal agencies.

    The Assistant Secretary (Enforcement), the Deputy Assistant Secretary
    (Enforcement Policy)and the  Office of Financial and
    Administrationreport to the Under Secretary. The Under Secretary also
    coordinates, develops policies, and monitors activities pertaining to
    the enforcement activities of Treasury's law enforcement bureaus: the
    Skip past United States Customs Service to Assistant Secretary
    (Enforcement) United States Customs Service, the United States Secret
    Service, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Federal Law
    Enforcement Training Centerand, through the Assistant Secretary
    (Enforcement), the activities of the
   Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Office of Foreign Assets
   Control, and the Executive Office for Asset Forfeiture*@.

                         Green horizontal line image

                    Under Secretary for Domestic Finance

   The Under Secretary for Domestic Finance reports to the Secretary of
   the Treasury through the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, and advises
   and assists the Secretary and Deputy Secretary in areas of domestic
   finance, banking, fiscal policy and operations, and other arelated
   economic matters. These responsibilities include the development of
   policies and guidance in the areas of financial institutions, Federal
   debt finance, financial regulation and capital markets.

   The Under Secretary for Domestic Finance supervises the Assistant
   Secretary for Financial Markets, the Assistant Secretary for Financial
   Institutions, the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, the Deputy Assistant
   Secretary for Community Development Policy, and the Director of the
   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund. The Under Secretary
   also has oversight responsibility for the Bureau of the Public Debt and
   the Financial Management Service, through the Fiscal Assistant
   Secretary.

                         Green horizontal line image

                  Assistant Secretary (Legislative Affairs)

   The Office of the Assistant Secretary (Legislative Affairs) advises the
   Secretary of the Treasury and all sub-Cabinet officers on congressional
   relations policy, and serves as the principal contact and coordinator
   of all departmental contacts with Congress and with congressional
   relations activities in the White House and other departments.

                         Green horizontal line image

                    Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy)

   The Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) informs the Secretary of the
   Treasury and other senior Treasury officials of current and prospective
   economic developments and assists in the determination of appropriate
   economic policies. The Assistant Secretary's duties include:

     * reviewing and analyzing both domestic and international economic
       issues, as well as developments in the financial markets;
     * participating with the Secretary in the Economic Policy Council and
       the Troika Forecasting Group, which develops official economic
       projections and advises the President on choices among alternative
       courses of economic policy; and
     * working closely with officials in the Office of Management and
       Budget, the Council of Economic Advisers, and other Government
       agencies on the economic forecasts underlying the yearly budget
       process, and advising the Secretary on the economic effects of tax
       and budget policy.

   Within the Office of Economic Policy, staff support is provided by the
   Office of Financial Analysis, the Office of Special Studies, the Office
   of Monetary Policy Analysis, and the Applied Econometric Staff.

                         Green horizontal line image

                       Office of the Inspector General

   The Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, provides for an
   Inspector General within the Department of the Treasury. The Office is
   required to keep the Secretary of the Treasury and the Congress fully
   informed of problems and deficiencies in the administration of Treasury
   programs and operations. The functions of the Office of the Inspector
   General include:

      * Reviewing, auditing, and managing the internal investigative
        program of the Department;
      * Analyzing allegations;
      * Making recommendations for case development and completion;
      * Identifying trends for use in development of preentive measures.

                         Green horizontal line image

                      Assistant Secretary (Management)
                           Chief Financial Officer

   The Assistant Secretary (Management)/Chief Financial Officer serves as
   the principal policy adviser to the Secretary of the Treasury and
   Deputy Secretary on the management of the annual planning and budget
   process and on matters involving the internal management of the
   Department and its bureaus. The Assistant Secretary oversees the
   Department's management programs, which include personnel, training,
   affirmative action, equal employment opportunity, security, planning
   and management analysis, financial management, information systems,
   property management, procurement, and contracting.

   The Office also is responsible for providing comprehensive
   administrative services to the Office of the Secretary and other
   components of the Department, as appropriate. As Chief Financial
   Officer of the Department, the Assistant Secretary is also responsible
   for carrying out budgetary and financial management activities
   throughout the Department.

                         Green horizontal line image

                   Assistant Secretary (Financial Markets)

   The Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets serves as a senior
   advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury, Deputy Secretary of the
   Treasury, and Under Secretary for Domestic Finance on broad matters of
   Federal, State and local finance, including matters pertaining to the
   financial markets. The Assistant Secretary advises on the development
   and sale of U.S. Government securities and leads the Treasury's
   participation in the financing of the District of Columbia. The
   Assistant Secretary also advises on Federal Government credit policies,
   lending and privatizing activites; and serves as the senior member of
   the Treasury Financing Group and the President's Working Group on
   financial markets.

   Reporting to the Assistant Secretary is also contains the Deputy
   Assistant Secretary for Federal Finance, which supervises the Office of
   Market Finance, the Office of Federal Finance Policy Analysis, the
   Office of Sallie Mae Oversight, and the Office of the Advanced
   Counterfeit Deterrence Program. Also under the Assistant Secretary is
   the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Government Financial Policy, which
   supervises the Office of Government Financial Policy.

                                  Green Bar

                Assistant Secretary (Financial Institutions)

   The Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions reports through the
   Under Secretary for Domestic Finance and the Deputy Secretary of the
   Treasury to the Secretary of the Treasury. The Assistant Secretary
   advises and assists them on all matters relating to financial
   institutions.

   The Assistant Secretary exercises policy direction and control over
   Treasury's legislative and other activities relating to the general
   activities and regulation of private financial intermediaries,
   including issues concerning financial privacy and consumer protection
   issues. Other issues include "e-commerce," including computer security,
   online privacy and Internet banking, Treasury's activities relating to
   other Federal regulatory agencies, and new activity determinations
   under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999.

   The Assistant Secretary also serves as Treasury's sector coordinator on
   critical infrastructure protection pursuant to Presidential Decision
   Directive 63. The Assistant Secretary, through supervision of the
   Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Policy, oversees
   the Office of Financial Institutions Policy and the Office of
   Government Sponsored Enterprise Policy.

                                  Green Bar

                         Fiscal Assistant Secretary

   The Fiscal Assistant Secretary serves as a senior advisor on all
   matters relating to the development of policies, programs, and systems
   for the collection, disbursement, management and security of public
   monies in the United States and in foreign countries and the related
   government wide accounting and reporting for such funds. The Fiscal
   Assistant Secretary is the head of the Fiscal Service, which consists
   of the Office of the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, the Financial
   Management Service, and the Bureau of the Public Debt.

   The Fiscal Service, in cooperation with the Office of Management and
   Budget and the General Accounting Office, provides a wide range of
   financial management leadership and assistance to Federal program
   agencies. The Fiscal Assistant Secretary supervises the Deputy
   Assistant Secretary for Fiscal Operations and the Deputy Assistant
   Secretary for Accounting Operations, and provides general supervision,
   policy oversight, management, and coordination of the Financial
   Management Service and the Bureau of the Public Debt.

                                  Green Bar

                    Assistant Secretary (Public Affairs)

   The Office of the Assistant Secretary (Public Affairs) advises the
   Secretary of the Treasury and his staff on the Department's relations
   with the news media, the White House Press office, and other Government
   agencies, businesses, trade and professional organizations, consumer
   groups, and the public. It establishes general policies for
   administering public affairs, business affairs, consumer affairs, and
   intergovernmental affairs programs in the Treasury's bureaus. This
   office designs and implements policies and programs that will increase
   the public's knowledge and understanding of Treasury's activities and
   services among the news media, business groups, consumer groups, other
   Government agencies, and the public.

                         Green horizontal line image

                      Assistant Secretary (Enforcement)

   The Assistant Secretary (Enforcement) assists in the supervision and
   oversight of the Treasury's law enforcement bureaus, including the Skip
   past United States Secret Service to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
   Firearms United States Secret Service, the United States Customs
   Service, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and the Bureau of
   Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and conducts policy oversight for the
   Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (*@). The Assistant
   Secretary also supervises the Director of the Financial Crimes
   Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and the Director of the Office of Foreign
   Assets Control (*@). The Assistant Secretary represents Treasury in a
   variety of forums, including providing testimony at Congressional
   hearings and briefings, and in media interviews.

                         Green horizontal line image

                               General Counsel

   The Office of the General Counsel furnishes legal advice to the
   Secretary of the Treasury with respect to his responsibilities as chief
   financial officer of the Government and overseer of the operating
   functions of the Treasury Department. The General Counsel is the chief
   law officer of the Department and, as such, is head of the Legal
   Division, which is composed of all attorneys proving legal service to
   all offices and bureaus of the Department.

                         Green horizontal line image

                             Bureau of Alcohol,
                            Tobacco and Firearms

   The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) is a law enforcement
   organization with a unique combination of responsibilities dedicated to
   reducing violent crime, collecting revenue, and protecting the public.
   It was established by Treasury Department Order No. 221, on July 1,
   1972. The order transferred the functions, powers, and duties arising
   under laws relating to alcohol, tobacco, firearms, and explosives from
   the Internal Revenue Service.

   On December 5, 1978, Treasury Department Order No. 120-1 assigned to
   the ATF the responsibility for enforcing the law relating to interstate
   trafficking in contraband cigarettes. With the passage of the
   Anti-Arson Act of 1982, ATF was given the additional responsibility of
   addressing commercial arson nationwide.

   ATF has law enforcement and compliance functions for alcohol, firearms
   and explosives. It also collects alcohol and tobacco excise taxes. Laws
   establishing ATF's authority include the Federal Alcohol Administration
   Act, the Internal Revenue Code, the Gun Control Act, and the Organized
   Crime Control Act.

   Most of the ATF personnel are stationed throughout the country where
   many of its operational functions are performed. The Director is
   appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury and is under the supervision
   of the Under Secretary for Enforcement.

     The ATF is responsible for enforcing and administering firearms and
     explosives laws, as well as those covering the production, use, and
     distribution of alcohol and tobacco products. Its objectives are to
     maximize compliance and investigate violations of these laws. To
     achieve these goals, ATF is divided into two basic functions: law
     enforcement and compliance operations.

            The objectives of its law enforcement activities are:

     * s uppressing illegal trafficking and possession and use of
       firearms;
     * impacting arson-for-profit schemes;
     * suppressing interstate trafficking in contraband cigarettes;
     * suppressing the traffic in illicit distilled spirits;
     * assisting Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in
       reducing crime and violence; and
     * investigating narcotics traffickers who use firearms and explosives
       as tools of their trade, especially violent gangs.

         The objectives of its compliance operations activities are:

     * determining and ensuring full collection of revenue due from legal
       alcohol, tobacco, and firearms industries;
     * fulfilling its responsibility in product integrity and health
       warning statements and preventing commercial bribery, consumer
       deception, and other improper trade practices in the beverage
       alcohol industry;
     * assisting other Federal, State, and local governmental agencies in
       resolving problems relating to revenue protection;
     * ensuring that persons prohibited by law from manufacturing,
       importing, or dealing in alcohol, tobacco, firearms, and explosives
       do not obtain a license or permit;
     * ensuring that storage facilities for explosives are safe, secure
       and properly stored to avoid presenting a hazard to the public; and
     * ensuring that an audit trail is preserved to permit the tracing of
       firearms used in the commission of crimes and full accountability
       for explosive materials.

                         Green horizontal line image

                                Office of the
                         Comptroller of the Currency

   The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) was established to
   regulate the National Banking System by an Act of Congress on February
   25, 1863. The OCC has maintained its bureau status throughout its
   existence.

   As the administrator of nationally-chartered banks, the OCC oversees
   the execution of laws relating to national banks and promulgates rules
   and regulations governing the operations of national banks. It also
   supervises a nationwide staff of approximately 2,300 bank examiners.
   The OCC's functions include:

     * Functioning as administrator of national banks and Federal licensed
       branches and agencies of foreign banks;
     * Issuing rules and regulations governing national bank operations;
     * Approving and denying applications for new bank charters, branches,
       capital or other changes in corporate or banking structure;
     * Examining the banks;
     * Taking supervisory action against banks which do not conform to
       laws and regulations or which otherwise engage in unsound banking
       practices.

                         Green horizontal line image

                          Internal Revenue Service

    The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is responsible for determining,
    assessing, and collecting internal revenue in the United States. This
    revenue consists of personal and corporate income taxes, excise,
    estate, and gift taxes, as well as employment taxes for the nation's
    Social Security system.

   The Bureau of Internal Revenue was established on July 1, 1862, to
   collect new income taxes, money which was used to pay for the Civil
   War. Although the income tax was declared unconstitutional by the
   Supreme Court in 1895, the national income tax was reinstated in 1913.
   The Bureau of Internal Revenue was responsible for enforcement of the
   Prohibition amendment in the 1920's.  The Bureau of Internal Revenue
   was reorganized in 1953 and renamed the Internal Revenue Service. It
   remains the largest of Treasury's bureaus.

                         Green horizontal line image

                             United States Mint

   The United States Mint was created by Congress on April 2, 1792, within
   the Department of State. The Mint was made an independent agency in
   1799, and under the Coinage Act of 1873, became part of the Treasury
   Department. It was placed under the auspices of the Treasurer of the
   United States in 1981.

   Mint facilities in Philadelphia, Denver, San Franciso, and West Point,
   along with many other locations throughout our history, country strike
   all of the nation's coinage. The United States' gold bullion reserves
   are protected by the Mint at the West Point Bullion Depository and the
   Fort Knox Bullion Depository. The Mint manages extensive commercial
   marketing programs. The product line includes special coin sets for
   collectors, national medals, American Eagle Gold and Silver Bullion
   Coins, and commemorative coins marking national events such as the
   Bicentennial of the Constitution. The Mint's functions include:

       * Producing domestic, bullion and foreign coins;
       * Manufacturing and selling national commemorative medals;
       * Designing, producing, and marketing special coinage;
       * Manufacturing and selling proof and uncirculated coin sets and
         other numismatic items;
       * Safeguarding and controlling the movement of bullion;
       * Disbursing gold and silver for authorized purposes;
       * Distributing coins from the Mints to Federal Reserve Banks.

                         Green horizontal line image

                      Bureau of Engraving and Printing

   The United States Government began printing money in 1862, when "
   greenback" currency was issued to finance the Civil War. Five clerks
   working in the attic of the Main Treasury Building affixed the Treasury
   Seal to the bills. The functions of the Bureau of Engraving and
   Printing (BEP) were formally established on March 3, 1877. It is now
   administered by the Treasurer of the United States. The BEP's functions
   include:

     * Designing and manufacturing United States currency;
     * Designing and manufacturing many postage stamps, customs stamps and
       revenue stamps;
     * Designing, engraving and printing Treasury bills, notes and bonds,
       and other U.S. securities;
     * Designing, engraving and printing commissions, permits, and
       certificates of awards.

                         Green horizontal line image

                        Financial Management Service

   The  Financial Management Service (FMS)  is the Federal Government's
   financial manager. It receives and disburses all public monies,
   maintains government accounts, and prepares daily and monthly reports
   on the status of government finances.  FMS supports other Federal
   agencies by serving as the Government's primary disbursing agent;
   collections agent; accountant and reporter of financial information;
   and collector of delinquent Federal debt, and performs many of the
   fundamental cash management functions that were delegated to Treasury
   when the Department was created by Congress in 1789. While these
   functions were originally executed by the Register of the Treasury, the
   Office of the Commissioner of Accounts and Deposits was established in
   1920, separating the account-keeping from the Office of the Secretary.
   The division was renamed the Bureau of Government Financial Operations
   in 1974, and became FMS in 1984.

   Each year FMS disburses in excess of $1 trillion as it issues more than
   850 million non-defense payments to a wide variety of recipients, such
   as those who receive Social Security, IRS tax refunds, and Veterans
   benefits. Approximately 60% of these transactions are issued by
   electronic funds transfer (EFT), most through the Direct Deposit
   program, while the remainder are disbursed by check.

   The FMS is responsible for administering the world's largest
   collections system, gathering approximately $1.5 trillion annually. It
   manages the collection of Federal revenues such as individual and
   corporate income tax deposits, customs duties, loan repayments, fines,
   and proceeds from leases, and maintains a network of about 18,000
   financial institutions to collect these revenues. It also oversees the
   Federal Government's central accounting and reporting system, keeping
   track of its monetary assets and liabilities. FMS works with Federal
   agencies to help them adopt uniform accounting and reporting standards
   and systems.

   The FMS gathers and publishes Government wide financial information
   that is utilized by the public and private sectors to monitor the
   Government's financial status and establish fiscal and monetary
   policies. It is the Government's central debt collection agency as it
   manages the Government's non-tax delinquent debt portfolio. FMS uses
   Treasury's payment systems to identify payments destined to delinquent
   debtors and applies these monies to offset debts such as Federal
   education, housing, and business loans and past-due child support
   obligations. FMS also retains the services of private debt collection
   agencies and utilizes standard private sector techniques to collect
   delinquent debts on behalf of agencies.

   The Financial Management Service is comprised of about 2,100 employees,
   one-third of whom are located in six regional Financial Centers where
   electronic funds transfer and paper check payments are issued. All FMS
   employees, including the Commissioner, are career civil servants. FMS
   performs its mission with an annual Congressional appropriation of
   about $200 million.

                         Green horizontal line image

                          Bureau of the Public Debt

   The Bureau of the Public Debt borrows the money needed to operate the
   Federal Governmnet. It accomplishes its mision of administering the
   public debt by issuing and servicing U.S. Treasury marketable, savings
   and special securities.

   The modern Bureau evolved from the Register of the Treasury, becoming
   the Public Debt Service in 1919 and was designated as a Bureau in 1940.
   With the passage of the Government Securities Act in 1986, the BPD
   assumed the rulemaking authority for the conduct of the Government
   Securities market. The Bureau of the Public Debt's functions include:

      Borrowing the money necessary to operate the Federal Government and
   accounting for the resulting public debt;

     Receiving, storing, issuing, and redeeming Government securities;

     Servicing registered accounts and paying interest when due;

     Maintaining accounting and audit control over public debt
   transactions and publishing statements;

     Processing claims for securites that are lost, stolen, or destroyed;

     Promoting the sale and retention of United States Savings Bonds.

                         Green horizontal line image

                        Savings Bond Marketing Office

   The Savings Bond Marketing Office (formerly the United States Savings
   Bonds Division) promotes the sale and retention of United States
   Savings Bonds. These activities originally were part of the War Finance
   Division, that was established on March 19, 1941. Predecessors of the
   government savings bond program were the Liberty Bonds in World War I
   and the Baby Bonds of the late 1930's. The Savings Bond Marketing
   Office is now a part of the Bureau of the Public Debt.

                         Green horizontal line image

                        United States Secret Service

   The Secret Service was created in 1865 as a federal law enforcement
   agency within the Treasury Department.  It derives its legal authority
   from Title 18, United States Code, Section 3056.  It was established
   for the express purpose of stopping counterfeiting operations which had
   sprung up in this country following the introduction of paper currency
   during the Civil War. The Secret Service maintains its role as guardian
   of the integrity of our currency, but today also investigates crimes
   involving United States securities, coinage, other government issues,
   credit and debit card fraud, and electronic funds transfer fraud.  The
   most obvious of its other activities is executive protection, which
   began after the assassination of President McKinley in 1901. The Secret
   Service's functions include:

     * Protecting the President and Vice President and their families,
       candidates for those offices, former Presidents and their families,
       and visiting heads of foreign states and governments;
     * Enforcing laws against counterfeiting currency, coins, or
       securities of the United States;
     * Enforcing laws against fraud or forgery of Government checks or
       bonds, and other securities and obligations of the United States;
     * Investigating credit and debit card fraud, computer fraud, and
       electronic fund transfer fraud;
     * Furnishing physical security for the White House, the Main Treasury
       Building, and foreign embassies and missions in Washington, D.C.

                         Green horizontal line image

                        United States Customs Service

   The Customs Service was established by the Second, Third and Fifth Acts
   of the First United States Congress in 1789, making it the oldest
   goverment agency. The Department of the Treasury was established two
   months later, and Customs was placed within it. The Customs Service's
   functions include:

      * Enforcing import and export laws and regulations at U.S. ports of
        entry;
      * Assessing and collecting duties on imported merchandise;
      * Controlling the import and export of merchandise;
      * Functioning as the first line of defense in the nation's war on
        narcotics at ports of entry;
      * Combatting smuggling and related fraud.

                         Green horizontal line image

                        Office of Thrift Supervision

   The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) is the successor to the Federal
   Home Loan Bank Board. It was established by Congress on August 9, 1989,
   as the primary Federal regulator of all Federal and state-chartered
   savings institutions across the nation that belong to the Savings
   Association Insurance Fund (SAIF). The OTS headquarters is in
   Washington, D.C., but OTS staff work out of local offices organized
   into five regions examine and supervise savings institutions throughout
   the country. Its OTS functions include:

     * Serving as the primary regulator of all Federal and state-chartered
       savings institutions;
     * Issuing federal charters for savings and loan associations and
       savings banks;
     * Adopting and enforcing regulations to ensure that both Federal and
       state-chartered thrift institutions operate in a safe and sound
       manner.

                         Green horizontal line image

                           Federal Law Enforcement
                               Training Center

   On July 1, 1970, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC)
   was established for the purpose of instructing agents and officers from
   various govenrmental law enforcement agencies, including the United
   States Secret Service, the United States Customs Service, and the
   Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, but also the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service and the U.S. Park Police in addition to other
   non-Treasury agencies. The FLETC maintains its principal training
   facilities in Glynco, Georgia.

                         Green horizontal line image

                        Financial Crimes Enforcement
                              Network (FinCEN)

   The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) supports and
   strengthens domestic and intenational anti-money laundering efforts and
   fosters interagency and global cooperation.  The nurturing of these
   cooperative efforts is achieved through information collection, data
   analysis, dissemination of analytical products, technological
   assistance, and innovative and cost-effective implementation of
   Treasury authorities.

                         Green horizontal line image

                          Treasury Forfeiture Fund

   The Treasury Forfeiture Fund (TFF), managed by the Executive Office for
   Asset Forfeiture*@, supports the Treasury's national asset forfeiture
   program in a manner that results in federal law enforcement's continued
   effective use of asset forfeiture as a law enforcement sanction to
   punish and deter criminal activity.

                         Green horizontal line image

                            Community Development
                         Financial Institutions Fund

   The Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI) reports to
   the Under Secretary for Domestic Finance. The CDFI Fund was created to
   expand the availability of credit, investment capital, and financial
   services in distressed urban and rural communities. By stimulating the
   creation and expansion of diverse community development financial
   institutions and by providing incentives to traditional banks and
   thrifts through the Bank Enterprise Award (BEA) Program, the Fund's
   investments work toward building private markets, creatingb healthy
   local tax revenues, and empowering residents.

    The CDFI Fund provides relatively small infusions of capital to
    institutions that serve distressed communities and low-income
    individuals. The Fund's activites leverage private-sector investments
    from banks, foundations, and other funding sources. Community
    Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) are specialized financial
    institutions that work in market niches that have not been adequately
    served by traditional financial institutions.

         * Denotes Links that will open a new Browser window.
         @ Denotes Links that are not under the control of the OPC.

                         Green horizontal line image

         Brought to you by the Office of Public Correspondence (OPC)

                         Green horizontal line image

   Quill Pen Learning Vault Home Page | E-Mail | Treasury Home Page Quill
                                                                    Pen
