http://access.usgs.gov/about.html

   USGS
   Place-Based Program

   Chesapeake Bay
   Greater Yellowstone
   Mojave Desert
   Platte River
   Salton Sea
   San Francisco Bay
   South Florida

   Back to PBS Home

              Welcome to the USGS's Place-Based Studies Program


   About PBS PBS Contacts

     Science for Ecosystem Restoration: The Place-Based Science Program

   The USGS Place-Based Studies (PBS) Program provides objective
   integrated science for managers who are seeking to restore natural
   functions and values of resources and the environment. In order to
   restore these functions, managers must have scientific information to
   resolve the complex resource problems that are before them. Resource
   managers use scientific information for several purposes. First, it
   helps to define the extent of environmental problems, and to
   distinguish changes caused by management actions from natural changes
   caused by climatic shifts, environmental succession, and natural
   climatic variability. Second, understanding how the ecosystem functions
   helps managers formulate possible solutions to those problems. Third,
   ecosystem models provide tools for determining which proposed actions
   will be the most effective in resolving the problems. Fourth,
   scientific information is necessary to develop the criteria and
   strategy for monitoring the success of management modifications.

Goals

   The goals of the PBS Program are (1) to provide relevant, high-quality,
   impartial scientific information that permits resource-management
   agencies to improve the scientific basis for their decisions and to
   prevent or resolve resource-management conflicts and (2) to facilitate
   integration of scientific information.

   The PBS Program integrates USGS research in specific, critical
   ecosystems. At present the areas under study are the San Francisco
   Bay/Delta, South Florida, the Chesapeake Bay, the Platte River, the
   Greater Yellowstone area, the Mojave Desert, and the Salton Sea.
   Funding has been requested to start studies in the Great Lakes in FY
   2000 .

   The information is designed to have a direct, significant, and
   immediate impact on management and policy decisions. Multi- and
   inter-disciplinary approaches to environmental science are used to
   address issues that involve environmental resources such as water,
   minerals, biota, and land in specific critical ecosystems in the United
   States.

   Scientist are selected for their particular expertise from the wide
   array of disciplines within the USGS, and apply their diverse
   approaches to common problems. Studies in the present suite of
   ecosystem areas include land characterization, surface hydrologic and
   ecological modeling, geospatial database management, ground- and
   surface-water hydrology, geophysics, ecology, geochemistry,
   paleontology, and contaminant, sediment, and nutrient dynamics.
   Scientists improve their interpretation of data by working with related
   information from other disciplines.

   (This information is from "Science for Ecosystem Restoration: The
   Place-Based Science Program", USGS fact sheet 70-98.)
     U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, Center for
   Coastal Geology
   This page is: http://access.usgs.gov/about.html
   Comments and suggestions? Contact: Heather Henkel - Webmaster or (727)
   803-8747 ext. 3028
   Last updated: 21 December, 2001 @ 03:02 PM (KP)
