http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/1999-Fall/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                             Fall 1999 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available.

   Date Topic Speaker
   September 13
   (Schneebaum Award Lecture) Space Commercialization and Its Influence on
   Spaceflight Engineering Michael Griffin
   Orbital Sciences Corporation
   September 20 Saving SOHO Paal Brekke
   European Space Agency
   September 27 Gradient Index Optics in Nature: Animal Vision,  Mirages,
   and Other Interesting Examples Duncan Moore
   White House Office of Science and Technology Policy
   October 4 3D Medical Imaging Pat Barta
   Johns Hopkins University
   October 11 (No Colloquium)
   October 18 Do We Need Computers in Schools? Cliff Stoll
   October 25 Risk Assessment Bryan O'Connor
   Futron Corporation
   November 1
   NOTE:  Bldg. 8 Auditorium Wingless Flight:  Lifting Bodies Dale Reed
   NASA Dryden
   November 8 Low Cost Access to Space Dick Kohrs and Debra Facktor Lepore
   Kistler Aerospace
   November 15 Mapping the Universe Stephen Landy
   College of William and Mary
   November 22 Air-Breathing Engines That Fly Into Orbit Charles McClinton
   NASA Langley Research Center
   November 29 (No Colloquium)
   December 6 Precision Measurement with Gravity and other Things Jim
   Faller
   University of Colorado
   December 13 Assembly and Test of Mars Pathfinder - and How it Paid Off!
   Linda Robeck
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
