http://www.ofm.wa.gov/budget02/highlights/contents.htm

       Governor Gary Locke, 2002 Proposed Supplemental Budget, Budget
                                 Highlights
                             December 18, 2001

   Governor Locke with children reading Tough Choices for Responsible
   Government
   GOVERNOR GARY LOCKE'S 2002 supplemental budget proposal reflects the
   realities of recession and war, but its long-term goal is to create a
   leaner, more effective state government that is better prepared to help
   Washington achieve economic recovery and lasting prosperity.

   This budget is a cost-cutting plan that focuses state resources on core
   state services. Tough choices are made. No general tax increase is
   proposed.

   The Governor's proposal invests in Washington's people and their
   future. It responds to the state's rising jobless rate, creating
   thousands of new jobs through urgently needed transportation
   improvements and other construction projects that lay a foundation for
   long-term economic growth. It protects unemployment benefits and
   expands workforce training so people out of a job can get back to work.
   more...
   Washington's Economy Education is Key to Washington's Future: Funding
   for public schools and class size reduction is protected despite
   economic downturn and declining state revenue.
   [vline.gif]

   Making Government Work Better
   Maintaining the Commitment to Education
   Re-energizing Washington’s Economy
   Transportation: New Roads, New Jobs
   Keeping Communities Safe from Violence and Terror
   Access to Quality Higher Education
   Compensation for State Workers
   Protecting Washington’s Environment
   Capital Spending: More Jobs When They’re Needed

   Proposed Budget Expenditures
   (Including Governor's 2002 Supplemental Budget)

   2001-03 Balance Sheet (PDF)

                                                               [vline.gif]

                                                       Governor Gary Locke
         "To keep the American Dream alive…we must raise our standards of
   academic achievement, of government productivity and customer services,
    of the careful preservation of the natural environment we cherish, and
    of our determination to protect the well-being of Washington's working
                                                                families."

                                   Governor Gary Locke's Inaugural Address
                                                          January 15, 1997


                               black line

                               Issues In Depth

   Economy
   Economy
   Big Game Lottery
   Capital
   Competitiveness
   Re-energizing
   dot
   Education
   Education
   Workforce Training
   dot

   Efficiency in Government
   Efficiency
   Regulation Reform
   Civil Service Reform
   dot

   Safety
   Safety
   DNA
   Money Transfers
   dot
   Transportation
   Transportation
   Transportation Plan

    Governor's Home Page | Office of Financial Management | Legislature |
    Press Releases | Budget Detail | Glossary of Budget Terms
