http://www.armfor.uscourts.gov/Establis.htm



   court seal drawing

                     ESTABLISHMENT

             The United States Court of Military Appeals, which was
   redesignated on October 5, 1994, as the United States Court of Appeals
   for the Armed Forces by the National Defense Authorization Act for
   1995, Pub. L. No. 103-337, was created by Congress in the Uniform Code
   of Military Justice (UCMJ), enacted on May 5, 1950. Thus, this Federal
   Court is established under Article I of the Constitution which gives to
   Congress the power to make rules for the government and regulation of
   the armed forces. The UCMJ was designed to insure a military judicial
   system which balanced the need to maintain discipline in the armed
   forces and the desire to give to servicemembers accused of crime rights
   paralleling as nearly as possible the rights enjoyed by accused persons
   in the civilian community.

             The Court was originally composed of three civilian judges
   appointed by the President of the United States for a normal term of 15
   years and confirmed by the Senate of the United States. However,
   effective October 1, 1990, Congress increased the membership on this
   Federal Court to five civilian judges, maintaining the original
   appointment and confirmation process.  Except for ceremonial sessions
   and special hearing sessions held in various sections of the United
   States, the Court sits only in Washington, D.C.

             While the concept of a "final appellate tribunal" is not a
   new one, creating such a court was "an entirely new concept in the
   field of military law."  The legislative history of the UCMJ
   establishes that the Court is intended by Congress to be "the supreme
   authority on the law . . . [assuring] uniform interpretation of
   substantive and procedural law."  The Court is not "subject to the
   authority, direction, or control of the Secretary of Defense."  The
   purpose of creating a civilian court was to emphasize "the principle of
   civilian control of the armed forces."  Senator Kefauver referred to
   the Court as "a supreme civilian court of military law . . . with the
   prestige of a United States Court of Appeals."  According to
   Congressman Philbin of the House Armed Services Committee:  "It can
   operate . . . as a great, effective, impartial body sitting at the
   top-most rank of the structure of military justice and insuring . . .
   absolutely fair and unbiased consideration of every accused."  It is
   the only court under the oversight jurisdiction of the Armed Forces
   Services Committees of the Congress of the United States.

             The Judges of the Court are required by law to meet annually
   with the Judge Advocates General of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the
   Chief Counsel of the Coast Guard, the Staff Judge Advocate to the
   Commandant of the Marine Corps, and two civilian lawyers appointed by
   the Secretary of Defense, to survey the operations of the Uniform Code
   of Military Justice and to prepare a report to the Congress on the
   number and status of pending cases, together with any legislative
   recommendations relating to uniformity of sentencing, amendments to the
   Code, and any other matter considered appropriate.  The Code Committee,
   as this body is popularly termed, holds several meetings each year
   which are open to the public on request.

             Originally named simply the Court of Military Appeals,
   Congress redesignated it in 1968 as the United States Court of Military
   Appeals in order to make it abundantly clear that the Court of Military
   Appeals is a Federal Court and not merely an administrative agency.  As
   a result, the Court has "the power to question any provision of the
   manual [for courts-martial] or any executive regulation or action as
   freely as though it were' a court created under Article III of the
   Constitution. As already indicated, the Court was redesignated on
   October 5, 1994, as the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed
   Forces.

             Since October 31, 1952, the Court has been located in
   Judiciary Square at 5th and E Streets, Northwest, Washington, D.C.
   20442-001.  The courthouse was erected in 1910 and formerly housed the
   United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
   The building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

        return to home page Home Page
