http://www.csb.gov/news/2001/n20010302.htm

   Line Separator Image Line Separator Image Line Separator Image

                      ABOUT THE CSB
              Line Separator Image
                     INVESTIGATIONS
              Line Separator Image
           CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS
              Line Separator Image
   CHEMICAL INCIDENT REPORTS CENTER
              Line Separator Image
                          CHEMLINKS
              Line Separator Image
                     E-MAIL UPDATES
              Line Separator Image
               CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
              Line Separator Image
       REPORTING CHEMICAL INCIDENTS
              Line Separator Image

   corner QUICK SEARCH corner

          (*) Web Site ( ) CIRC
   ____________
   Click Here to Submit Your Search

   corner Line Separator Image corner


   U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   CSB - Library
   Site Navigation
   Federal Investigation of Tosco Refinery Fire Finds Flawed Management
   Supervision

                                                       TRANSLATE THIS PAGE

   (Washington, DC - March 28, 2001) A fire at Toscos Avon refinery in
   Martinez, California, could have been prevented by better management
   supervision of safety, according to the final report of the U.S.
   Chemical Safety & Hazard Investigation Board (CSB). The report
   culminates an exhaustive two-year investigation of the 1999 petroleum
   fire that claimed the lives of four workers. The Avon refinery was
   acquired by UDS Corporation last year.

   According to Board Member Irv Rosenthal, Better management of job
   planning and execution could have prevented this tragedy. Our
   investigation uncovered two root causes of the accident. First, Avon
   refinery management did not have an effective process for assessing the
   dangers of maintenance operations and implementing needed safeguards.
   Second, neither the parent Tosco Corporation nor the facility
   management had investigated or corrected a pattern of serious unsafe
   practices at the Avon refinery.

   The incident occurred on February 23, 1999, two years after an
   explosion at the refinery killed one and injured 46 others. Management
   deficiencies were also a significant factor in that incident, according
   to a federal report.

   The 1999 incident occurred as workers attempted to remove and replace a
   leaky petroleum pipe which was attached to an operating oil
   distillation tower, known as a fractionator. Over a 13-day period prior
   to the accident, workers had repeatedly tried to isolate and drain the
   pipe, but leaking and corroded shut-off valves hampered their efforts.
   At the time of the incident, the pipe still contained a significant
   volume of pressurized naphtha, a highly flammable petroleum mixture
   similar to gasoline. While workers were in the process of replacing the
   pipe, the naphtha was released and burst into flame, killing the four
   workers. At the time of the fire, workers were positioned on
   scaffolding up to a hundred feet off the ground and had limited means
   of escape.

   According to the Boards Rosenthal: The refinerys own procedures
   directed that the piping should be isolated and drained prior to
   attempting this kind of repair. This procedure was not followed.
   Opening a pipe containing naphtha in the presence of multiple ignition
   sources was a formula for disaster. The entire process unit should have
   been shut down, which would have eliminated ignition sources and
   allowed the naphtha to be fully and safely drained.

   Rosenthal continued: Management had a responsibility to see that work
   was halted, and should not, as has been suggested, have relied solely
   upon individual workers to stop an unsafe activity. Worker error was
   not a root cause of this accident. A satisfactory management system is
   one that, anticipating that humans will inevitably make mistakes, still
   ensures the safe conduct of work. Effective job planning, hazard
   review, and management oversight could have prevented the Avon tragedy.

   The Board recommended that the refinery implement a comprehensive
   system for safely managing hazardous maintenance work. Key provisions
   include a process for evaluating hazards before work is started and
   increased management oversight of ongoing work. The Board also
   recommended that Tosco Corporation improve its safety auditing
   procedures and ensure that its seven other refineries do not have the
   safety deficiencies that were found at Avon.

   The CSB is an independent federal agency whose mission is to ensure the
   safety of workers and the public by preventing chemical incidents. The
   CSB is a scientific investigatory organization, not an enforcement or
   regulatory body. The Board determines the root causes of accidents,
   issues safety recommendations, and performs special studies on chemical
   safety issues.

   PAGE LAST UPDATED:March 28, 2001
                              Line Separator Image
   U.S. Chemical Safety Board
   info@csb.gov                                              Home | Top of Page
                             Site Help | Search | Feedback | Contact | Library
