http://state-of-coast.noaa.gov/natdialog/partners/index.html

                           State of the Coast logo

                  National Dialogues on Coastal Stewardship

   The National Dialogues bring together a broad spectrum of partner
   organizations and participants. The partners are responsible for
   selecting, planning and overseeing specific activities. They encourage
   individuals to participate and initiate supporting activities. Other
   national organizations are encouraged to become partners in the
   National Dialogues. Current partners are listed below.

   American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA) is the alliance of
   ports of the Western Hemisphere. The Association promotes the common
   interests of the port community and provides leadership on trade,
   transportation, environmental and other issues related to port
   development and operations. AAPA furthers public understanding of the
   essential role fulfilled by ports within the global transportation
   system.

   Boat Owners Association of the United States (BOAT/U.S.) was founded in
   1966 when a small group of boat owners felt it was important to have a
   national organization that could represent their interests and provide
   services that would be useful and money-saving. BOAT/U.S. argues the
   case for boaters before federal agencies and Congress and provides
   financial services, group insurance and charter services worldwide to
   more than 500,000 members.

   The Center for Marine Conservation (CMC) is a non-profit organization
   committed to protecting ocean environments and conserving the global
   abundance and diversity of marine life. Through science-based advocacy,
   research and public education, CMC promotes informed citizen
   participation to reverse the degradation of our oceans.

   The Coastal Society (TCS) e-mail address: Coastalsoc@aol.com is an
   international organization of private sector, academic and government
   professionals and students dedicated to actively addressing emerging
   coastal issues by fostering dialogue, forging partnerships, and
   promoting communication and education. TCS hosts a biennial
   international conference known for challenging conventional thought and
   management practices on the latest coastal issues.

   Since 1972, the Coastal States Organization (CSO) has represented the
   governors of the coastal states, territories, and commonwealths as an
   advocate for improved management of the nation's coasts, oceans, and
   Great Lakes. The Coastal States Organization shapes and advances a
   national agenda that enhances the protection of coastal and ocean
   resources of the Nation and that furthers the vision for the coasts
   shared by member states, territories and commonwealths.

   The Consortium for Oceanographic Research and Education (CORE) is an
   association of U.S. oceanographic research institutions, universities,
   laboratories and aquaria. Its 53 members represent the nucleus of U.S.
   ocean research and education. Its mission is to promote, encourage,
   develop and support efforts to advance knowledge and learning in the
   science of oceanography and to disseminate such knowledge to the
   scientific community and the public.

   The National Fisheries Institute (NFI) represents a wide spectrum of
   firms from small family-owned businesses to large multinational
   corporations. The NFI advocates the interests of the fish and seafood
   industry in Congress and before regulatory agencies. It also promotes
   and defends both the industry and its products to the media and
   consumers. The NFI is committed to assisting its member firms to
   succeed in the global seafood marketplace.

   The National Ocean Industries Association is a trade association
   representing all facets of the domestic offshore petroleum and related
   industries, including producers of crude oil and natural gas, oil field
   service companies, and others with an interest in exploring for, and
   producing, hydrocarbon energy resources from the nation's outer
   continental shelf. Its mission is to secure reliable access to these
   resources so that they may be developed, produced, and supplied in an
   environmentally responsible manner.

   The National Ocean Service (NOS) is the primary civilian agency within
   the Federal Government responsible for the health and safety of our
   nation's coastal and oceanic environment. It is committed to being the
   nation's principal advocate for coastal stewardship through
   partnerships at all levels. Through its programs, NOS supports and
   provides the science, information, management, and leadership necessary
   to balance the environmental and economic well-being of the nation's
   coastal resources and communities.

   The Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations is made up of
   25 port and fishermen's marketing associations between San Diego and
   Alaska. It works to ensure the rights of individual fishermen and for
   the long-term survival of commercial fishing as a productive livelihood
   and way of life.

   These links are provided as a convenience to users of this Web site.
   The Department of Commerce does not endorse and is not responsible for
   the content of these sites.
   (top)


   Last modified:

                 Current date:
