http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/inthenews.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image
                              [transbar.gif]

                                In the News
   Check here for the scoop on consumer topics around the nation, in the
   government and right here at FCIC.
                              [transbar.gif]

   Notepad graphic News & Notes Important safety tips? Ways to save money
   and cut expenses? We've got that and much more on our newsletter.
   [transbar.gif]
   Government Update Take part in government. Here are some requests for
   public comments, notices of meetings and workshops, proposed safety
   legislation and so on. We select those news items relating to consumers
   so you can get involved.
   [transbar.gif]

   Calendar of Events A listing of consumer related conferences, seminars
   and meetings, along with anything else we think you might be interested
   in.
   [transbar.gif]
   Spotlight What's New @ FCIC The newest changes to the FCIC web site
   take center stage on our What's New page.
   [transbar.gif]
   Looking for Pubs Promoted in the Media? If you saw a publication offer
   in a magazine or newspaper recently and we know about it (not always
   the case), you'll find it linked to this page.
   [transbar.gif]
   Electronic publications Electronic Publications This page features
   on-line consumer publications you can read, but are not available for
   ordering from FCIC.
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
