http://www.spd.nasa.gov/industry.html

   Space Product Development              NASA Insignia
                             Space for Business to Grow


      Click here to skip menu
   Home
   What is SPD?
   Industry
   Research
   Commercial
   Space Centers
   News
   Events
   Success Stories
   Contact Us
    Search
     _______________ go

Industry

Your competitors exploring the potential and
reaping the rewards of space . . . Why aren't you?

   Scientist with light-emitting diode Space-based research has produced
   impressive results. Commercial research made use of protein crystal
   growth on the Shuttle to help speed development of a potential
   treatment for the flu. Microgravity research has helped the Ford Motor
   Company and other manufacturers improve their cast parts, resulting in
   both savings and improved reliability. Plants are being tested to see
   if new varieties can be produced more easily in microgravity, while
   plants are being investigated for the production of essential oils and
   anti-cancer compounds. Bone and heart "patches" are just two of the
   biomedical products being investigated for commercial use.

   Space commercialization reaches across every facet of today's
   marketplace. From research and development on materials to the rich
   fields of agribusiness, space-based research and development is helping
   American businesses get ahead. The Space Product Development Office is
   here to help you discover how space can make your business truly out of
   this world.

Will it work for me?

   The only way to find out is to ask. Whether you would like to know if
   doing research in microgravity would help your efforts, or if you have
   a product or service that you think could help other commercial
   researchers.

   How does it work?

   Graphic representation of protein crystal The contact process is fairly
   simple: You call or write the Space Product Development Office and talk
   with a representative. This will allow an evaluation to be made and
   provide you with information on submitting a written request, which
   would include your goals and the resources that you will use to meet
   those goals. This will allow the best options for your work to be
   selected, including potential partnership with an appropriate
   Commercial Space Center. As you go forward there will be challenges,
   but - with perserverance - rewards.

What is a Commercial Space Center?

   The Commercial Space Centers (CSCs) are a partnership between NASA,
   academia, and the private sector. These centers are responsible for
   specific areas of commercial research and development. Supported by
   NASA, they are responsible for developing commercial partners to use
   space to develop new or improved products or processes for industy.

What do NASA and the CSCs get out of this?

   NASA, per its charter, is working to foster commercial space
   initiatives, so that the benefits of space come down to earth,
   improving the quality of life for all Americans. Meantime, the nation
   benefits from the economic and practical benefits that come from such
   research. The CSCs develop new partners, new industries, and new
   products - for the economic benefit to all involved.

What do I get out of it?

   The major benefit is in using the unique attributes of space, as well
   as ground-based resources, to explore new or improved product
   development, or even more advanced concepts. Meanwhile, you establish
   new business relationships and have the opportunity to boost your
   business to new levels. No one can guarantee what you get, other than
   the opportunity, but it could open the door to new commercial
   endeavors.

What will it cost me?

   That will depend on many factors, based on what you want to do. The
   Space Product Development Office simply provides the opportunity for
   you to benefit from out of this world reseach.

How can I find out more?

   Businesses interested in commerical space opportunities can obtain more
   information by writing to:

   Space Product Development
   Mail Code SD12
   NASA Marshall Space Flight Center
   Huntsville, AL 35812

   or mail to spd@msfc.nasa.gov
