http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov/mgmt/stratpln/1999/background.cfm

   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE
          Strategic Plan
   Working Document 1997 - 2002
     __________________________________________________________________

Background

The Agricultural Research Service

   The Agricultural Research Service (ARS) is the principal inhouse
   research agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). It is one
   of the four component agencies of the Research, Education, and
   Economics (REE) mission area. Congress first authorized federally
   supported agricultural research in the Organic Act of 1862, which
   established what is now USDA. That statute directed the Commissioner of
   Agriculture ". . . To acquire and preserve in his Department all
   information he can obtain by means of books and correspondence, and by
   practical and scientific experiments, . . ." The scope of USDA's
   agricultural research programs has been expanded and extended more than
   60 times in the 135 years since the Department was created. Before the
   enactment of large-scale crop support and nutrition programs,
   agricultural research was a substantial part of the Department's
   budget. Shortly before World War II, USDA received about 40 percent of
   all Federal funds appropriated for research. To better support the war
   effort, the Department's various research components were brought
   together into the Agricultural Research Administration (ARA). In 1953,
   the ARA was reorganized into ARS.


                                  Foreword
                               Contents (full)
                                 Background
                               Strategic Plan
                                  Appendix
                          Discrimination Statement

   In FY 1998, ARS received an appropriation from Congress of $745 million
   (less than 1 percent of the Federal research funds appropriated for
   that year), which supported 1,100 research projects at about 100
   locations involving about 1,900 scientists.

   Legislative Mandates

   ARS research is authorized by the Department of Agriculture Organic Act
   of 1862 (7 U.S.C. 2201 note), Research and Marketing Act of 1946,
   amended (7 U.S.C. 427. 1621 note), Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, as
   amended (7 U.S.C. 1281 note), Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 3101
   note), Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C.
   1421 note), Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, and
   the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998
   (P.L. 105–185).

   ARS Research

   ARS research has long been associated with higher production and more
   environmentally sensitive farming techniques. But the impact of ARS
   research extends far beyond the farm gate and the dinner table.
   Agricultural research is as much about human health as it is about
   growing corn. For example, ARS recently developed a fat substitute
   called Oatrim. Not only does this technology benefit farmers by
   providing a new use for oats, it also enables processors to produce
   tastier low-fat foods. Consumers may reap the biggest benefits:
   Oatrim-rich diets lower the bad (LDL) type of cholesterol without
   decreasing the good (HDL) type, and it improves glucose tolerance.

   ARS research is about improvement of crops and livestock through both
   modern adaptations of traditional breeding methods and new
   biotechnology techniques. For example, ARS recently released to
   industry cattle germplasm with high breeding value for twinning.
   Developed through intensive selection, this twinning technology has the
   potential to increase efficiency of beef production by 25 percent. On
   the biotech side, ARS scientists have mapped two clusters of chicken
   genes that may facilitate location of economically important genes.

   ARS research is also as much about development of industrial products,
   such as printing ink from crops like soybeans, as it is about
   development of high-yielding wheat varieties. As with Oatrim, printing
   ink made from 100 percent soybean oil instead of petroleum solves more
   than one problem: Unlike petroleum, soybeans are a renewable resource,
   and this technology diversifies markets for soybean farmers and choices
   for ink manufacturers and printers.

   ARS research provides solutions to a wide range of problems related to
   agriculture—problems requiring long-term commitment of resources or
   those problems unlikely to have solutions with quick commercial payoff
   that would tempt private industry to do the research. These problems
   range from the ongoing battle to protect crops and livestock from
   costly pests and diseases to improving quality and safety of
   agricultural commodities and products, determining the right mix of
   nutrients for humans from infancy to old age, making the best use of
   natural resources, and ensuring profitability for producers and
   processors while keeping costs down for consumers.

   To develop these solutions, ARS scientists carry out basic, applied,
   and developmental research, which are inextricably linked. Scientists
   cannot do applied and developmental research without the foundation
   provided by basic research; ARS basic research must point towards
   specific uses for new knowledge resulting from the research. Also,
   basic research is necessary in anticipation of new problems and to
   provide information needed for rational nationwide policies.

   ARS scientists communicate research results and transfer new
   technologies from the agency to other scientists, institutions of
   higher education, producers, product and process developers, consumers,
   and other end users through publications; conferences, workshops, and
   consultations; and cooperative agreements and patent licenses.

   International Collaboration

   The combined government funding for agricultural research in foreign
   countries far exceeds U.S. Federal funding for agricultural research.
   Recognizing this resource, ARS has set up carefully selected
   international collaborations that have led to a cost-effective
   supplementation of ARS technology development and access to germplasm.
   At present, the agency has 368 cooperative linkages with 51 countries.
   Collaborations often result in copublication of research results. Where
   appropriate, intellectual property is mutually protected with
   copatents. Through its tactically constructed network of international
   research interchanges, ARS, in cooperation with the U.S. Department of
   State, helps to advance technoscientific diplomacy for the U.S.
   Government.

   National Agricultural Library

   The National Agricultural Library (NAL) was established by Congress in
   1862. It is the largest agricultural library in the world and one of
   only four national libraries in the United States. In 1994, it became
   part of the Agricultural Research Service. The library's unique,
   comprehensive collection of more than 2.2 million volumes forms the
   fundamental base of knowledge on agriculture and related basic and
   applied sciences and social sciences for the Nation. Traditional, as
   well as innovative and specialized information services and products,
   enable customers to identify, locate, and obtain needed information on
   agriculture and related topics. Through preservation activities, NAL
   ensures that the collection is available for current and future use.
   NAL produces AGRICOLA (AGRICultural OnLine Access), a bibliographic
   database of more than 3 million citations to agricultural literature,
   and provides leadership in development and application of information
   technologies that help ensure access to knowledge and information such
   as gene maps.

   National Arboretum

   The U.S. National Arboretum was established by Congress in 1927 as a
   research and educational institution. It is the only federally funded
   arboretum in the United States. The arboretum introduces new cultivated
   forms and improved germplasm of ornamental and floral plants,
   especially of trees and shrubs. Research activities are carried out at
   four locations in the eastern United States. The 444-acre site in
   Washington, D.C., supports a wide range of education activities and
   opportunities for people of all ages. The arboretum provides attractive
   display gardens, collections, and historic features for the education
   and enjoyment of about 400,000 people annually.

   Technology Transfer Activities

   Products, techniques, and information generated from ARS research must
   be transferred to customers if the United States is to maintain its
   global competitive edge in agriculture. The technology transfer process
   ranges from controlled release of information via oral, written, or
   electronic form, to establishment of research and development
   partnerships with industry, other Government agencies, and
   universities. Intellectual property is guarded by patents and plant
   variety protection, and commercialization is achieved by patent
   licensing and cooperative research and development agreements (CRADAs).

   Partnerships and Coordination With USDA and Other Federal Agencies

   As the principal inhouse research component of USDA, ARS provides the
   scientific expertise needed to support the work of most of the
   Department's action and regulatory agencies and other Federal agencies,
   such as the Food and Drug Administration, the Environmental Protection
   Agency, some components within the Department of Defense, and the
   Department of the Interior. The USDA action and regulatory agencies
   served by ARS include Agricultural Marketing Service, Animal and Plant
   Health Inspection Service, Farm Services Agency, Food and Nutrition
   Service, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Foreign Agricultural
   Service, Grain Inspection, Packers & Stockyards Administration, and
   Natural Resources Conservation Service.

   The following information briefly summarizes some FY 1996 ARS
   activities conducted in support of the USDA action and regulatory
   agencies.

   Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS)—ARS developed automated peanut
   sampling devices to improve quality measurements, egg pasteurization
   standards to control certain species of Salmonella, improved methods to
   analyze pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables, improved
   measurement techniques for the processability and dyeability of cotton,
   and new and more rapid techniques for grading cotton.

   Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)—ARS and APHIS
   co-manage the Plum Island Animal Disease Center in New York. ARS
   developed methods to detect, exclude, control, and eradicate exotic
   pests (insects, weeds, etc.); techniques to improve surveillance for
   scrapie and other transmissible spongiform encephalopathies;
   surveillance/control/eradication programs for screwworm, tuberculosis,
   brucellosis, pseudorabies, Texas cattle ticks, vesicular stomatitus,
   and trichinosis in swine; new biological control techniques to control
   invasive pests; pathogen screening technologies; decontamination
   procedures; and research in response to quarantine issues involving
   imports and exports.

   Farm Service Agency (FSA)—ARS developed and pilot-tested new nutrient
   specifications and product blends to ensure the nutritional value,
   stability, and customer acceptance of items used in the Food for Peace
   Program.

   Food and Nutrition Service (FNS)—Data from ARS' Continuing Survey of
   Food Intakes by Individuals (CSFII) and Diet and Health Knowledge
   Survey (DHKS) are used to update the thrifty food plan that, in turn,
   is used to set food stamp allotments, monitor the effectiveness of food
   assistance programs by measuring the dietary status of low-income
   Americans, analyze the nutrient content of foods commonly eaten by
   low-income individuals, and develop improved methods to assess the
   absorption and bioavailability of key nutrients in the diets of
   important population subgroups, such as children and older Americans.

   Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS)—ARS worked closely with FSIS
   to develop knowledge and technologies to detect, measure, inhibit, and
   prevent Salmonella and Campylobacter in chickens and turkeys and E.
   coli in cattle; to determine if migratory birds can spread
   Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts; to measure the effectiveness of
   chemical antibacterial treatments in the slaughter and processing of
   meat and poultry; and to better detect drug and other chemical
   contaminants in meats.

   Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS)—ARS developed improved techniques to
   overcome export restrictions on U.S. agricultural commodities, and ARS
   scientific experts assist FAS in bilateral negotiations regarding
   quarantine issues.

   Grain Inspection, Packers & Stockyards Administration (GIPSA)—ARS
   developed quick and accurate methods to grade grain and new
   multiresidue methods to detect herbicide residues that are an important
   concern in the export of U.S. soybeans to Asia.

   Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)—ARS developed computer
   models to predict and help mitigate wind and water erosion in different
   geographic and climatic locations, knowledge and technologies to help
   measure the quality of and better manage soil and water resources, and
   new and alternative agricultural production systems. The two agencies
   also have several joint locations where ARS scientists work closely
   with NRCS to enhance the environment and the Nation's natural resources
   base.

   These highlights demonstrate the scope of the research support ARS
   provides to its internal USDA customers. This summary is not
   all-inclusive, but represents the depth of the services provided in FY
   1996.

   ARS Approach to the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA)

   Since 1983, ARS has developed a series of multiyear strategic plans to
   help guide development and management of the agency's work. In 1993,
   the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA), Public Law 103–62,
   was enacted. It seeks to make all Federal departments and agencies more
   accountable to Congress and U.S. taxpayers. The ARS Strategic Plan,
   covering fiscal years 1997–2002, was developed in accordance with the
   GPRA requirements. In the spring of 1994, the agency established a work
   group to study how best to implement GPRA within ARS. After completion
   of the work group's report, ARS undertook an extensive outreach effort
   to gain input from a broad cross section of the agency's customers,
   stakeholders, and partners. This visioning process consisted of a pilot
   conference in January 1995, followed by five regional conferences held
   in June and July of 1995. The conferences brought together over 400
   participants who worked in more than 30 breakout groups to provide
   information regarding
     * the key forces that will influence American agriculture during the
       next 20 to 25 years
     * how these changes will affect agricultural research
     * how ARS should respond to these changes

   Using information gathered from this process, ARS identified 10 major
   issue areas that will affect agriculture and agricultural research over
   the next 25 years. The following issues were summarized in the Report
   of the Regional Vision Development Conferences in September 1995:

   1. International/global
   2. Population/demographics
   3. Environmental
   4. Sustainability of production systems
   5. Economic
   6. Government and political
   7. Consumer/societal
   8. Food and health
   9. Technological advancement
   10. Education and information

   In analyzing the input and information gathered at the five
   conferences, nine major roles were identified for ARS in meeting the
   research needs of the next 25 years. The nine roles are as follows:
   provide leadership in setting the agricultural research agenda;
   strengthen relationships with ARS partners; educate and relate to
   consumers and other constituents; develop and transfer information
   systems and technology; carry out and support strong, relevant science;
   focus on long-term, high-risk research; address environmental issues;
   promote interdisciplinary team and systems approaches; and develop and
   strengthen institutional and human resources.

   The ARS guiding principles, which appear later in this plan, are based
   on the input and information gathered at the visioning conferences. The
   visioning process also provided the broad thematic framework that runs
   throughout the ARS strategic plan. Shortly after the visioning process
   was completed, the agency established a strategic planning team (SPT)
   charged with drafting a new ARS strategic plan that meets the GPRA
   requirements.

   ARS Strategic Planning Process

   The SPT worked from August 1995 until May 1996, when the first draft
   plan was completed. The input of the agency's senior managers was
   secured periodically throughout the drafting process. As required by
   GPRA, the SPT developed an aggressive plan to secure comments from ARS
   employees, customers, beneficiaries, stakeholders, partners, and the
   general public. The draft plan, along with an invitation for review and
   comment, was placed on the ARS World Wide Web site. The draft plan was
   also printed in the Federal Register on July 22, 1996 (vol. 61, no.
   141), with a formal 30-day comment period that closed on August 21,
   1996. About 1,400 copies of the Federal Register were mailed to ARS
   customers, beneficiaries, stakeholders, and partners. On July 24, 1996,
   ARS participated in an REE-wide employee telecast designed to introduce
   the REE mission area and agency plans. Employees and partners who
   viewed the telecast were told how to access copies of the various plans
   and invited to submit comments. The SPT received and carefully reviewed
   about 50 written and e-mail comments on the ARS draft strategic plan
   during the review period. The comments were positive, substantive,
   thoughtful, and helpful to the SPT's task of finalizing the second
   draft plan.

   In October 1996, comments were received from the USDA Office of the
   Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the lead unit within the Department
   responsible for overseeing the implementation of GPRA. The SPT held a
   highly productive meeting with CFO officials in December to discuss
   their comments and concerns. In April 1997, additional comments were
   received from the acting CFO and from the director of USDA's Office of
   Budget and Program Analysis. Changes were made to reflect these
   comments and suggestions. In mid-1997, formal consultation took place
   with senatorial staff, and the General Accounting Office (GAO) reviewed
   the USDA strategic plans at the request of the House leadership. Input
   from the Senate consultation and the GAO review was the basis for a
   final round of revisions in the plan. The completed plan was
   transmitted to Congress as part of the USDA strategic plan on October
   1, 1997.

   ARS uses a matrix management approach in administering its research
   programs. The 6-Year Implementation Plan 1992–1999 contained an
   appendix that described the ARS implementation policies. In 1997, the
   National Program Staff reviewed and revised this document to
   accommodate the new National Program structure that is now being
   implemented. The Administrator's Council reviewed the revised document
   during its September 1997 meeting, made further changes, and reissued
   it as the agency's current operating philosophy. This document has been
   included as an appendix to accompany the new ARS Strategic Plan.

   Administrative and Financial Management (AFM) Functions

   Under the Departmental reorganization of 1994, each mission area was
   required to consolidate all of its administrative and financial
   management activities. In the REE mission area, ARS was designated as
   the lead agency, providing administrative and financial management
   services to the Office of the Under Secretary and the four REE
   agencies. The ARS Administrative and Financial Management staff
   developed a strategic plan, based on customer input from all four REE
   agencies, detailing how services would be provided. The AFM strategic
   plan provides management support for the Office of the Under Secretary
   REE and all four REE agencies. The National Performance Review staff
   view the AFM strategic plan as a model for similar units to emulate.
   Because the AFM plan is a separate and freestanding entity that covers
   more than ARS, the SPT decided not to incorporate or duplicate the AFM
   plan in this strategic plan. The SPT had AFM members who had served in
   leadership positions in developing the management plan, thus ensuring
   that the plans would be both compatible and coordinated. The AFM plan
   directly and specifically links to the ARS strategic plan through
   initiative 3.

   Departmental Goals

   USDA has articulated four overarching goals that all mission areas and
   agencies support. These four goals are

   USDA Goal 1—Expand economic and trade opportunities for agricultural
   producers and other rural residents.

   USDA Goal 2—Ensure food for the hungry, and a safe, affordable,
   nutritious, and accessible food supply.

   USDA Goal 3—Provide sensible management of our natural resources.

   USDA Goal 4—Promote effective customer service and efficient program
   delivery.

   ARS has incorporated these Departmental goals throughout its strategic
   plan. USDA goal 1 is covered by outcomes 1 and 5. USDA goal 2 is
   addressed in outcomes 1, 2, and 3. USDA goal 3 is covered in outcome 4,
   and USDA goal 4 is addressed in initiative 3.

   Vision, Mission, Guiding Principles, and Values

   Vision

   Leading America towards a better future through agricultural research
   and information.

   Mission

   ARS conducts research to develop and transfer solutions to agricultural
   problems of high national priority and provides information access and
   dissemination to
     * ensure high-quality, safe food and other agricultural products,
     * assess the nutritional needs of Americans,
     * sustain a competitive agricultural economy,
     * enhance the natural resource base and the environment, and
     * provide economic opportunities for rural citizens, communities, and
       society as a whole.

   Guiding Principles

   Provide leadership for the national agricultural research agenda.

   Carry out and support excellent, relevant science.

   Support long-term research to provide a foundation for problem solving.

   Apply the science base to address critical emerging problems.

   Provide the science base for informed policymaking.

   Strengthen relationships with ARS partners.

   Educate and relate to consumers and other constituents.

   Respond to societal, consumer, and environmental concerns.

   Promote interdisciplinary team and systems approaches.

   Develop and strengthen institutional and human resources.

   Develop and transfer information systems and technology.

   Values

   Accountability
   We are responsible to the public.

   Appreciation
   We respect one another and value everyone's contribution.

   Cooperation
   We work with others to most effectively use available knowledge,
   resources, and technologies.

   Creativity
   We nurture and reward creativity.

   Diversity
   We encourage workforce diversity.

   Global Perspective
   We encourage and promote an international perspective and global
   collaboration on agricultural issues.

   Integrity
   We are committed to the highest standards of honesty and ethical
   conduct.

   Leadership
   We promote leadership in information and agricultural science.

   Objectivity
   We are proud of our scientific objectivity and will continue to provide
   unbiased information.

   Partnerships
   We encourage partnerships with other organizations and individuals.

   Quality
   We are dedicated to the highest standards of quality in agricultural
   research and information dissemination.

   Relevance
   We respond to the needs of the agricultural community and all of
   society.

   Service
   We listen to our customers, both internal and external, and provide
   them with high-quality scientific research, technologies, and
   information.

   Sharing
   We are committed to share information broadly and in a timely fashion.

   Strategy
   We shape the future by strategically positioning our resources and
   capabilities.

   Teamwork
   We support teams that approach problems holistically by looking at the
   total implications of their work.

   Key External Factors

   Consumer, Socio-economic, and Policy Trends

   The abundance and affordability of the American food supply is chiefly
   due to U.S. agricultural research. The Nation's ability to sustain this
   plentiful and inexpensive food supply continues to be paramount. But in
   recent years, consumer and producer attention has expanded somewhat to
   other areas of concern, such as food safety and quality, the
   relationship of agriculture and the environment, the profitability of
   the agricultural enterprise, and the impact of Government regulations,
   land use restrictions, and economic options that diminish the supply of
   farm and grazing land.

   The long-term sustainability of the Nation's food and fiber production
   systems will be determined not only by the continued profitability of
   farming and ranching, but also by how these production systems affect
   the environment. The capacity of U.S. agriculture to adapt to
   environmental changes is also a concern, as are availability and
   quality of natural resources. Another key environmental issue is how
   human activities affect weather patterns, atmospheric composition, soil
   and water quality, and productivity.

   Global population increases, demographic changes, and economic growth
   will substantially increase the demand for agricultural products and
   lead to development of new markets. At the same time, increased
   agricultural efficiency in other countries will force U.S. agriculture
   to be more competitive.

   Meanwhile, budget deficits and external pressures on the domestic
   economy may reduce funding for agricultural research in both the public
   and private sectors.

   Congressional Support

   The ability of ARS to respond to the many and diverse needs of
   producers and consumers is determined by congressional appropriations.
   Adjusted for inflation, these appropriated funds are substantially
   smaller now than they were two to three decades ago. As a consequence
   of inflation and the higher operating costs associated with advances in
   research equipment and techniques, the ARS scientific workforce, which
   reached a maximum of about 3,400 scientists in 1970, decreased by
   almost 40 percent during the next 25 years. In recent years,
   congressional appropriations, expressed in current dollars, have
   remained relatively static.

   1996 Farm Bill and the Revision of the Research Title

   The 1996 Farm Bill, the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act,
   set a new direction for American agriculture by beginning the process
   of phasing out farm subsidy payments based on production levels and
   introducing free market disciplines. The effect of this legislation
   will be to heighten the importance of agricultural research as one form
   of a safety net beneath producers. Research to maintain and improve
   productivity; to detect, control, and eradicate diseases and pests
   (insects, weeds, etc.); and to promptly address nontariff trade
   barriers, especially sanitary and phytosanitary conditions will take on
   even greater importance in a market environment.

   The 1996 Farm Bill also updated and expanded the "Purposes of
   Agricultural Research," which were first enacted in 1990. As described
   below, ARS incorporated the purposes into this strategic plan, adopting
   them as the agency's objectives. Full implementation of the
   Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 will
   also affect the ARS research program.

   Competition

   The Department of Labor projects an increase of 19 percent in the size
   of the general workforce in the next decade, which is slightly lower
   than the rate of growth for the preceding decade. The labor market
   during this period is also expected to be highly competitive for many
   occupations that require an advanced education, including scientists,
   engineers, economists, and computer specialists. The high earning
   potential of professions, such as law and medicine, will continue to
   make a career in science less attractive to many young men and women
   who have the creative intelligence needed for professional success in
   agricultural research. So a major emphasis on recruitment, student
   employment, upward mobility, and training programs will be needed to
   attract and retain a quality workforce. The trend towards increasing
   workforce diversity is also expected to continue, and opportunities for
   encouraging women and minorities into careers in science, engineering,
   and economics will need to be given a high priority.

   Key Internal Factors

   Facilities

   ARS owns and manages nearly 3,000 laboratory and office buildings and
   about 400,000 acres of land in support of its research mission carried
   out at over 100 domestic and foreign locations. The quality of ARS
   facilities' infrastructure directly affects the ability of ARS
   scientists to accomplish their research objectives and projects.

   ARS has implemented a comprehensive facilities modernization program
   through which it determines priorities for allocation of resources for
   facilities modernization related to and consistent with the research
   priorities of the agency.

   In addition, the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996
   created a task force to research and write a 10-Year Strategic Plan for
   Agricultural Research Facilities. The task force is charged with
   reviewing existing and proposed federally funded agricultural research
   facilities to determine which ones should be developed, closed,
   consolidated, or modernized.

   Information Infrastructure

   The confluence of computers, advanced communications, and space
   technology has brought about an information systems revolution
   resulting in change comparable to what occurred during the Industrial
   Revolution. The National Information Infrastructure (NII) will have the
   capacity to transmit information anywhere in the world at both high and
   low speeds in a variety of data formats, including image, voice, and
   video.

   Scientists searching for research information and companies searching
   for new research findings and technology will find them on the
   Internet. Information is a key to opportunities and an economic
   resource. Those who learn to exploit database technology and electronic
   networks as a utility will be the ones who get ahead. As one example,
   the NII presents a unique opportunity to the National Agricultural
   Library (NAL). NAL has traditionally collected, managed, and housed
   information on food and agricultural research to respond to requests by
   scientists, educators, consumers, and other constituents. But
   accumulation is no longer the answer: Proper access is. Strategic
   alliances and partnerships are required to capitalize on the greater
   breadth of information available, while targeting audiences and
   tailoring information and delivery formats to meet the needs of
   internal and external customers.

   During the 5 years covered by this strategic plan, ARS will seek,
   within the resources available, to strengthen and expand its
   information infrastructure and technology transfer capabilities so that
   the products of its work can be more promptly and widely accessible to
   customers, beneficiaries, and stakeholders of agricultural research.

   Core Capabilities

   ARS' policy is to maintain the essential combination of scientific
   expertise, fiscal and information resources, and facilities required to
   meet the needs of the agency's national programs. These core
   capabilities are a defining feature of the agency and can be mobilized
   to address national crises and other emerging problems.

   Customers, Beneficiaries, Stakeholders, and Partners

   A list of ARS' customers, beneficiaries, stakeholders, and partners is
   shown below. Although its composition changes, the list indicates the
   breadth of ARS' customer base. Sometimes an organization can be a
   combination of customer, beneficiary, stakeholder, and partner.

   Customers—Individuals or organizations that directly use ARS products
   or services.

   Producers (farmers, growers, and ranchers) and processors
   National and international organizations

     Advocacy groups
     Commodity and futures markets
     International trade organizations
     International science and research organizations

   Legislative branch
   Executive branch

   —U.S. Department of Agriculture

     Secretary of Agriculture
     Other mission areas
     Action and regulatory agencies
     Office of Budget and Program Analysis
     Inspector General
     Chief Financial Officer
     Chief Information Officer

   Other Federal agencies
   Scientific community
   Medical community
   Health and dietary community
   Environmental community
   State and local governments
   News media

   Beneficiaries—Individuals whose well-being is enhanced by the agency's
   activities.

   Domestic consumers
   Foreign consumers of U.S. agricultural exports and technologies

   Stakeholders—Organizations or individuals that have an interest in the
   work of ARS but do not directly use the agency's products.

   Legislative branch
   Executive branch
   ARS employees
   National and international organizations

     Producer and processor organizations
     Food and commodity organizations
     Foreign countries/governments
     Trade organizations
     Environmental organizations
     Retail organizations
     Consumer organizations

   Partners—Organizations that ARS works with collaboratively.

   Institutions of higher education
   Federal research agencies
   State research agencies
   Private industry

   Resources Needed

   Human Resources

   ARS will need to continue using innovative approaches to human
   resources management to attract and retain a diverse, critical core
   scientific, technical, and support capability. To meet the agency's
   human resources requirements and maintain the quality, relevance,
   diversity, and excellence of its core research programs, ARS must
   ensure continued innovations in human resources management by
   participating in activities such as the USDA Personnel Demonstration
   Project and the Research Position Evaluation System as a part of its
   overall strategic plan.

   Fiscal Resources Required To Fully Accomplish the Expectations of the
   ARS Strategic Plan

   To successfully accomplish the goals established in the ARS strategic
   plan, the agency will need to maintain a stable level of human, fiscal,
   physical, and information resources, adjusted for inflation. Over the
   last decade of gradual downsizing, the agency has carefully sharpened
   its focus on its mission. ARS has eliminated research activities that
   were deemed to be less critical during this time. At the same time, the
   agency has worked to enhance its core scientific research capabilities
   by hiring, retaining, and promoting its most productive employees.
   Achieving the goals of this 5-year plan with resources and scientist
   years (SY's) lower than those available to the agency in FY 1997 will
   be very difficult.

   Goal 1—17.3%
   Goal 2—37.4%
   Goal 3— 9.2%
   Goal 4—16.9%
   Goal 5—19.2%

   Program Evaluation

   ARS currently conducts a series of review processes designed to ensure
   the relevance and quality of its research work and to maintain the
   highest possible standards for its scientists. This process involves
   customer input to help keep the research focused on the technical needs
   of the American food and agricultural system. Each of the approximately
   1,100 research projects undergoes a thorough merit peer review before
   new or renewed activities are begun. All ARS employees, including the
   scientific workforce, are subject to annual performance reviews, and
   the senior scientists undergo a rigorous peer review (Research Position
   Evaluation System—RPES) on a 3- to 5-year cycle. These processes ensure
   the high quality of the ARS scientific workforce.

   ARS has recently restructured the way it organizes and manages its
   national research programs, and the National Program Staff is now
   operating under this new structure. When the current programmatic plans
   are fully implemented, ARS will have aggregated its 1,100 research
   projects into some 23 national programs that will be managed by
   multidisciplinary teams of national program leaders (NPL's). The
   national programs will focus the work of the agency on achieving the
   goals defined in the ARS strategic plan. In FY 2000, ARS envisions
   beginning a series of program reviews designed to ensure the
   effectiveness and productivity of the work being done in each national
   program. The annual performance plans required under GPRA will also
   serve to keep the work of the agency focused on achieving the goals
   established in this strategic plan. The aggregate effect of all these
   changes will be a system that will more effectively measure progress
   towards meeting established goals and outcomes.

   Role of External Entities in Drafting the ARS Strategic Plan

   ARS contracted for logistical support, training, and facilitation for
   the five visioning conferences to solicit input from customers,
   beneficiaries, stakeholders, and partners. The SPT relied heavily on
   these conferences in developing the ARS strategic plan. The ARS plan
   was developed, revised, and refined exclusively by Federal employees
   selected from various components of the agency.
     __________________________________________________________________

         Return to:
   ARS Strategic Documents Email the webmaster:
                           pvl@nps.ars.usda.gov
     __________________________________________________________________
