http://www.csb.gov/news/2001/n20010202.htm

   Line Separator Image Line Separator Image Line Separator Image

                      ABOUT THE CSB
              Line Separator Image
                     INVESTIGATIONS
              Line Separator Image
           CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS
              Line Separator Image
   CHEMICAL INCIDENT REPORTS CENTER
              Line Separator Image
                          CHEMLINKS
              Line Separator Image
                     E-MAIL UPDATES
              Line Separator Image
               CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
              Line Separator Image
       REPORTING CHEMICAL INCIDENTS
              Line Separator Image

   corner QUICK SEARCH corner

          (*) Web Site ( ) CIRC
   ____________
   Click Here to Submit Your Search

   corner Line Separator Image corner


   U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   CSB - Library
   Site Navigation

                                                       TRANSLATE THIS PAGE

   Board Team to Investigate Bethlehem Steel Fire

   (Washington, DC - February 8, 2001): The U.S. Chemical Safety & Hazard
   Investigation Board (CSB) has dispatched a team of seven accident
   investigators to the site of a recent fatal fire at a Bethlehem Steel
   plant. The fire at the Burns Harbor, Indiana, steel mill killed two
   workers and injured four others, one seriously. The fatalities included
   one company employee and a contract worker.

   The incident occurred on the afternoon of February 2 in conjunction
   with demolition work on a disused furnace. According to the CSB
   investigators, maintenance workers were removing a ten-inch valve from
   a pipe used to supply coke gas fuel to the furnace. Flammable liquid
   was unexpectedly released and ignited. The resulting fire caused the
   deaths and injuries. At the time of the incident, the workers were
   about 20 feet above ground level, with limited means of escape.

   Coke gas is produced from coal by a chemical process of destructive
   distillation, analogous to the production of charcoal from wood. The
   coke gas (which contains methane, hydrogen, and carbon monoxide) is
   used as a fuel, while the carbon-rich solid coke residue is used to
   produce steel.

   An initial focus of the investigation will be to determine why
   flammable material was still present in piping that was to undergo
   maintenance work. According to CSB spokesman Dr. Andrea Kidd Taylor, An
   investigative team was deployed within hours of the event on Friday.
   The investigators will determine the circumstances underlying this
   tragedy and report to the Board. We will be particularly interested in
   any similarities to past incidents where flammable releases have
   occurred during maintenance activities on piping.

   The CSB is an independent federal agency whose mission is to ensure the
   safety of workers and the public by preventing chemical incidents. The
   CSB is a scientific investigatory organization, not an enforcement or
   regulatory body. The Board determines the root causes of accidents,
   issues safety recommendations, and performs special studies on chemical
   safety issues.

   PAGE LAST UPDATED:February 8, 2001
                              Line Separator Image
   U.S. Chemical Safety Board
   info@csb.gov                                              Home | Top of Page
                             Site Help | Search | Feedback | Contact | Library
