http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/NEWS/imperialpha.html

   Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry Search  |  Index  |
   Home  |  Glossary  |  Contact Us

                          PUBLIC HEALTH ASSESSMENT

                          IMPERIAL REFINING COMPANY

                      ARDMORE, CARTER COUNTY, OKLAHOMA

                        EPA FACILITY ID: OK0002024099
     __________________________________________________________________

                                Prepared by:

                      Superfund Site Assessment Branch

               Division of Health Assessment and Consultation

              Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
     __________________________________________________________________

   Table of Contents

   Purpose and Health Issues

   Background

     Site Description
     History
     Demographics
     Land and Natural Resource Use

   Discussion

     Data Used
     Evaluation Process
     Imperial Refining Company Exposure Pathways and Contaminants of
     Concern

     Waste Piles Pathway
     Surface Water Pathway
     Sediment Pathway
     Soil Pathway
     Biota Pathway
     Physical Hazards

     Potential Exposure Pathways

     Well Water Pathway
     Air Pathway

     Child Health Initiative
     Health Outcome Data
     Community Health Concerns

   Conclusions

   Recommendations

   Public Health Action Plan

   Site Team

   References

   Appendix A. Explanation of Evaluation Process

     Screening Process
     Evaluation of Public Health Implications
     Non-Cancer Health Effects
     Calculation of Risk of Carcinogenic Effects

   Appendix B. Exposure Pathways for Imperial Refining Company Site

   Appendix C. ATSDR Plain Language Glossary of Environmental Health Terms

   LIST OF TABLES

   Table 1. Waste Source Contaminants Above Soil Comparison Values

   Table 2. Surface Water Contaminants Above Comparison Values

   Table 3. Sediment Contaminants Above Soil Comparison Values
     __________________________________________________________________

   Purpose and Health Issues

   Imperial Refining Company was proposed for the National Priorities List
   (NPL) on May 11, 2000 and listed on July 27, 2000. The Agency for Toxic
   Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) is required by Congress to
   conduct public health assessments on all sites proposed to the NPL. In
   this public health assessment, ATSDR evaluates the public health
   significance of the Imperial Refining Company site. ATSDR has reviewed
   available environmental data and community health concerns to determine
   whether adverse health effects are possible. In addition, this public
   health assessment recommends actions to prevent, reduce, or further
   identify the possibility for site-related adverse health effects.

   Background

   Site Description

   This site description comes in part from the Removal Assessment Report
   (May 1999) and the Site Inspection Narrative Report (July 1998) [1,2].
   The Imperial Refining Company (IRC) site is located just northeast of
   Ardmore, Oklahoma. It covers approximately 80 acres on either side of
   Highway 142 about 50 yards north of the overpass crossing the Atchison,
   Topeka, and Santa Fe railroad tracks. The legal description of the
   property is the SE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 20, and the SW1/4 of the
   NW1/4 of Section 21, Township 4 South, Range 2 East, Carter County,
   Oklahoma. Initial site investigations only covered about 55 acres of
   the property, located northwest of the railroad tracks.

   The IRC property is well vegetated with trees and moderate underbrush,
   except in several impacted areas which are covered with asphalt- or
   tar-like wastes. At least one waste area also contains several
   abandoned, partially crushed 55-gallon drums. The drums are rusty and
   appear to be empty. An intermittent stream and several wetlands areas
   are found on the property. Ponds on the site could have been highway
   fill "borrow pits" or reservoirs during operation of the refinery. The
   site is bounded by undeveloped property to the south and east. A small
   business, an active refinery, and a small residential area with about a
   dozen houses are located north of the site, and west of the property
   are several treatment lagoons for waste water from the active refinery.
   Access to the site is not restricted.

   History

   Imperial Refining Company was a crude oil refinery which operated on
   the site from 1917 to 1934, when it declared bankruptcy. All tanks and
   storage equipment were dismantled by 1948. The tank bottom materials
   were apparently dumped out onto the site soils during the dismantling.
   Although the property has changed ownership several times since the
   tanks and storage equipment were dismantled, there is no clear evidence
   of further operations occurring on the site.

   Demographics

   Figure 1 shows demographic information for the population of the area
   surrounding the Imperial Refining site. About 2250 people live within a
   one-mile radius of the site. The population within a one-mile radius of
   the site is mostly Caucasian (70%), African-American (14%), and
   American Indian (13%). According to the site assessment report, there
   are approximately 130 workers and residents within 200 feet of
   contaminated areas. Ardmore is a city of 26,000 to 28,000 people. [2]

   Land and Natural Resource Use

   The land surrounding the site is mostly rural or industrial. There is a
   small residential area of about a dozen houses approximately 200 to 300
   yards north of the site. During a visit to the site area, evidence of
   hunting- a deer blind and tree stand- just north of the site was
   observed. Members of the public interviewed during a public
   availability session on the IRC site confirmed that hunting is common
   on the site. They also indicated that people fish in the ponds on the
   site, especially during the summer, and that children no younger than
   10 to 12 years old are known to play on the site.

   Farm animals, including cows and horses, were observed in the fields
   near the site. Various types of wildlife, including sensitive species,
   live on the site [2].

   The intermittent stream that runs through the north side of the site
   joins Sand Creek, which flows towards the northeast for approximately
   four miles until it joins Caddo Creek [1]. These downstream creeks are
   used for wastewater discharge by the active refinery north of the site
   and by the city of Ardmore.

   No domestic groundwater wells are located within a one mile radius of
   the site [2]. According to state officials, Ardmore's municipal water
   system supplies drinking water to people living in the residential area
   north of the site.
   Top of Page

   Discussion

   Data Used

   Two sets of data have been collected to characterize the Imperial
   Refining Company site. On May 20, 1998, Oklahoma Department of
   Environmental Quality (DEQ) sampled waste sources (surface samples
   analyzed were from 0 to 6 inches in depth), surface water, and sediment
   (0 to 6 inches in depth) on the site as part of the Site Inspection
   [2]. On February 23 and 24, 1999, contractors for the Region 6
   Superfund Technical Assessment and Response Team (START) collected
   waste source samples at the site as part of a Removal Assessment [1].

   The data collected were part of the initial characterization of the
   wastes and highly impacted areas of the site. While this data gives
   useful information about site contaminants, it does not fully describe
   all the exposure pathways of potential concern. The conclusions reached
   in this document are based on the data available at the time and may be
   modified based on the results of additional samples that will be
   collected during the remedial investigation process.

                     Figure 1. Imperial Refining Company

   Evaluation Process

   The process by which ATSDR evaluates the possible health impact of
   contaminants is summarized here and described in more detail in
   Appendix A. ATSDR uses comparison values to determine which chemicals
   to examine more closely. Comparison values are concentrations of
   chemicals in the environment (air, water, or soil) below which no
   adverse human health effects should occur. Exceeding a comparison value
   does not mean that health effects will occur, just that more evaluation
   is needed.

   If the level of contamination at the site is greater than the
   comparison value, further evaluation will focus on identifying which
   chemicals and exposure situations could be a health hazard. Child and
   adult exposure doses are calculated for the exposure scenario of
   interest. The exposure dose is the amount of a contaminant that gets
   into a person's body. These exposure doses are compared to appropriate
   health guidelines for that chemical. Health guideline values are
   considered safe doses; that is, health effects are unlikely below this
   level. If the exposure dose for a chemical is greater than the health
   guideline, then the exposure dose is compared to known health effect
   levels identified in ATSDR Toxicological Profiles. If the chemical of
   concern is a carcinogen, the cancer risk is also estimated. These
   comparisons are the basis for stating whether the exposure is a health
   hazard.

   Imperial Refining Company Exposure Pathways and Contaminants of Concern

   The following sections describe the various ways people could come into
   contact with contaminants at the Imperial Refining site. Each of these
   is known as an exposure pathway. A summary of the possible exposure
   pathways is given in Appendix B. If it is unlikely for anyone to be
   exposed to contaminants in a given pathway, then that pathway will not
   be evaluated further for human health risks.

   Waste Piles Pathway

   Several impacted areas on the site are covered with black, asphalt- or
   tar-like waste material; these will be referred to as source areas.
   People trespassing on the site for hunting, fishing, or other purposes
   could come into direct contact with these contaminants. People could
   get particles of the material on their skin, or they might accidentally
   eat or breathe in the particles.

   To be conservative, our initial screening assumed that people will
   contact the source areas as much as they would the soil. Table 1 lists
   the contaminants that were found in the wastes on-site at levels above
   soil comparison values.
   Top of Page

   Table 1. Waste Source Contaminants Above Soil Comparison Values

   Contaminant^1,2,3

                      Range detected in waste in ppm^4
   Samples > DL^5 / Total CV^6 in ppm CV Source^7
   Arsenic

                                  2.1 - 17
   6 / 11 20 / 0.5^8 EMEG^9 / CREG^10
   Lead

                                 10.5 - 721
   11 / 11 400 SSL^11
   2-Methylnaphthalene

                                  46 - 430
   5 / 11 none^13
   PAHs:
   Benzo(a)anthracene

                                  143 - 232
   4 / 12 0.9 SSL
   Benzo(a)pyrene

                                  145 - 570
   3 / 12 0.9 / 0.1^12 SSL / CREG
   Chrysene

                                  248 - 717
   5 / 12 88 SSL
   Phenanthrene

                                  168 - 932
   5 / 12 none^13

   ^1 Antimony, beryllium, thallium, 1,1-dichloroethene, vinyl chloride,
   benzo(k)fluoranthene, dibenz(ah)anthracene, and indeno(123cd)pyrene
   were not detected. However, some or all of the analysis detection
   limits for these compounds were higher than the CV.
   ^2 4-methyl-2-pentanone, acenaphthylene, and benzo(ghi)perylene were
   not detected. There are no CVs available for these compounds.
   ^3 Naphthalene and pyrene were not detected at levels above the CV.
   However, some of the analysis detection limits were higher than the CV.
   ^4 ppm = parts per million of chemical in waste. ppm = mg (milligram)
   per kg (kilogram) of waste.
   ^5 DL = detection limit.
   ^6 CV = comparison value.
   ^7 These comparison values are described in Appendix 1.
   ^8 The first number is the EMEG and the second is the CREG.
   ^9 EMEG = environmental media evaluation guide.
   ^10 CREG = cancer risk evaluation guide.
   ^11 SSL = EPA soil screening level.
   ^12 The first number is the SSL and the second is the CREG.
   ^13 No CV available.

   Next, exposure doses were calculated for the contaminants of concern in
   Table 1. The worst case was assumed to be a ten-year-old (36.3 kg
   average [3]) contacting the maximum concentration of each contaminant
   all day for 52 days out of the year (once a week). The exposure dose
   estimated through this procedure was compared with health guideline
   values and toxicological information for the contaminant of concern.
   For evaluating the risk of cancer, we assumed adults weighing 70 kg
   would be exposed to the maximum concentration of each contaminant for
   52 days a year for a lifetime (70 years). The following sections
   describe this evaluation for the contaminants of concern from Table 1.

   Arsenic

   No health effects are expected from current exposure to the arsenic
   detected in the waste piles on the site. The estimated exposure dose
   for arsenic was found to be thirty times smaller than the chronic oral
   minimal risk level (MRL) for arsenic [4]. The MRL, an ATSDR health
   guideline value, is a dose of a chemical that is unlikely to cause an
   adverse, noncancerous health effect.

   Arsenic has been shown to cause cancer, based on human studies [4].
   However, based on the low levels of arsenic in the source areas and the
   low exposure doses, the chance of an increased risk of cancer from this
   exposure is negligible.

   Lead

   Exposure to lead in the source areas on this site is not likely to
   result in health effects. This is based on the maximum levels of lead
   detected and the assumption that older children only occasionally play
   or trespass on the site. If young children (less than 6 years old) had
   daily contact with the waste piles, the lead could pose a health
   hazard. However, it is very unlikely that a small child would be
   playing on the waste piles long enough to ingest appreciable amounts of
   dirt. Older children (and adults) are less vulnerable to lead in the
   soil than small children because they generally ingest less soil and
   less lead is absorbed into their bodies [5].

   In general, the level of lead in a person's blood is a good measure of
   recent exposure to lead and also correlates well with health effects.
   If we use the most protective correlation between blood lead levels and
   soil concentration found in epidemiological studies (0.0068 g/dL per
   ppm) and the maximum lead concentration measured in soil, then a person
   exposed to this soil could increase their blood lead levels by 4.9 g/dL
   [5]. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) considers
   children to have elevated lead levels if the amount of lead in the
   blood is 10 g/dL or above. However, some studies have indicated that
   levels of 10 g/dL and less in children's blood may be associated with
   small decreases in IQ and slightly impaired hearing and growth. Any
   increase in blood lead level from exposure to the Imperial Refining
   site is likely to be much smaller than the 4.9 g/dL value. This is
   because the exposure to the whole site is infrequent, a child probably
   would not play exclusively on the waste piles, and the maximum
   concentration of lead was used to make our estimate.

   Animal data indicate that lead is a probable human carcinogen [5].
   However, the animal studies were based on very high doses of lead and
   are difficult to compare to low level environmental exposures, such as
   at Imperial Refining. Since there is no cancer slope factor for lead,
   it is not possible to quantitatively evaluate carcinogenic risk.

   2-Methylnaphthalene

   The estimated exposure dose for 2-methylnaphthalene was found to be
   more than two hundred times lower than the chronic oral MRL for
   1-methylnaphthalene, a compound expected to behave like
   2-methylnaphthalene [6]. No health effects are expected from this
   exposure.

   Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs)

   The remaining contaminants from Table 1 are considered together as
   polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). These individual PAHs often
   occur together in the environment, and many have similar toxicological
   effects and environmental fate [7]. PAHs are a group of chemicals that
   are formed during the incomplete burning of coal, oil, wood, or other
   organic substances, such as tobacco or charbroiled meat. They can also
   be found in crude oil and creosote. Low levels of PAHs are found
   throughout our environment in the air, water, and soil.

   At the Imperial Refining site, adults or children who come into contact
   with the waste piles may get additional PAHs into their bodies by
   accidentally eating the soil (oral exposure) or by getting the
   contaminated soil on their skin (dermal exposure). Unlike some other
   compounds such as lead, significant amounts of PAHs can be absorbed
   through a person's skin. Breathing in PAH-contaminated dust from the
   site does not appear to be a significant source of exposure at this
   point, since the tar-like waste in the source areas is not crumbling
   into small particles.

   For non-cancer health effects, the exposure doses were calculated from
   the maximum levels of PAHs (listed in Table 1). These estimated
   exposure doses for this site are over a thousand times smaller than
   effect levels seen in animal experiments on various PAHs. Therefore, no
   noncancer health effects are expected for ingestion of or dermal
   exposure to PAHs from the source areas, assuming the current infrequent
   use of this site.

   There is evidence that some PAHs may cause cancer in humans. This
   evidence comes primarily from occupational studies of workers who were
   exposed to mixtures of PAHs as a result of their involvement in such
   processes as coke production, roofing, oil refining, or coal
   gasification. The associated cancer occurred predominately in the
   lungs, following inhalation exposure, and in the skin, following dermal
   exposure. Certain PAHs have also been shown to cause cancer in animals.

   In order to estimate the increased risk of cancer from this group of
   PAHs, a relative potency approach has been developed for carcinogenic
   PAHs based on benzo(a)pyrene, the most studied PAH compound [7]. Using
   the maximum concentration of PAHs found at the site and assuming weekly
   contact with the contaminated source areas over many years results in
   an estimated low to moderate increase in the risk of cancer. This is
   likely an overestimate of the current cancer risk because of the
   conservative (i.e., protective) exposure assumptions we used. Also,
   people are not expected to frequently contact the maximum concentration
   every time they are on the site. When more sampling data are available
   for the Imperial Refining site, we can make a better estimate of the
   average concentration of PAHs that a person may contact in the soil and
   source areas.

   If the use of the site changes in the future and people have increased
   exposure to the PAHs in the waste piles, then the risk of developing
   cancer will increase. ATSDR recommends limiting additional exposure by
   restricting access to the site until the site is remediated.

   Surface Water Pathway

   Water from surface runoff, streams, and ponds on the site comes in
   contact with the waste material. No use of this water for drinking
   water purposes was identified, but people who hunt, fish, or otherwise
   trespass on the site may accidentally ingest some of the surface water
   or get it on their skin.

   A limited number of surface water samples (4) were collected during the
   site investigation. As shown in Table 2, one contaminant (chloroform)
   was present above the drinking water comparison value in these samples.
   Table 2. Surface Water Contaminants Above Comparison Values

   Contaminant

                           Range in water in ppb^1
   Samples > DL^2 / Total Drinking Water

   CV in ppb
   CV Source^4
   Chloroform

                                   ND-2300
   1 / 4 100 / 6^5 EMEG^6 / CREG^7

   ^1 ppb = parts per billion of chemical in water. ppb = mg (microgram)
   per liter of water.
   ^2 DL = detection limit.
   ^3 CV = comparison value.
   ^4 These comparison values are described in Appendix 1.
   ^5 The first number is the EMEG and the second is the CREG.
   ^6 EMEG = environmental media evaluation guide.
   ^7 CREG = cancer risk evaluation guide.

   Only one of the four samples detected chloroform; the positive sample
   was taken from a wetland on the western central portion of the site.
   Estimated exposure of a ten-year old child (36.3 kg average [3]) who
   accidentally ingests this surface water 52 times a year (once a week)
   is more than ten times lower than the minimal risk level [8]. Health
   effects are not expected to occur due to exposure to chloroform at this
   level. Chloroform is a probable human carcinogen. However, the
   calculated increased cancer risk from exposure to the highest level of
   chloroform in Table 2 is negligible.

   Sediment Pathway

   People who hunt, fish, or otherwise trespass on the site may
   accidentally ingest some of the sediments from the ponds or streams on
   the site or get them on their skin. To be conservative, our initial
   screening assumed sediments would be contacted like soil particles.
   Table 3 lists the eight contaminants that were found at levels above
   soil comparison values in the sediments on site.

   Table 3. Sediment Contaminants Above Soil Comparison Values

   Contaminant

                              Range in sediment

                                  in ppm^1
   Samples > DL^2 / Total CV^3 in ppm CV Source^4
   Arsenic

                                   ND - 23
   4 / 13 20 / 0.5^5 EMEG^6 / CREG^7
   PAHs
   Benzo(b)fluoranthene

                                  ND - 1.3
   3 / 13 0.9 SSL^8
   Benzo(a)pyrene

                                   ND - 12
   4 / 13 0.9 / 0.1^9 SSL / CREG
   Indeno(123cd)pyrene

                                  ND - 1.1
   2 / 13 0.9 SSL
   Phenanthrene

                                  ND - 4.9
   5 / 13 none^10
   Benzo(ghi)perylene

                                  ND - 2.9
   2 / 13 none^10
   Benzo(a)anthracene

                                  ND - 2.6
   5 / 13 0.9 SSL
   Dibenzo(ah)anthracene

                                  ND - 0.53
   1 / 13 0.09 SSL

   ^1 ppm = parts per million of chemical in sediment. ppm = mg
   (milligram) per kg (kilogram) of sediment.
   ^2 DL = detection limit.
   ^3 CV = comparison value.
   ^4 These comparison values are described in Appendix 1.
   ^5 The first number is the EMEG and the second is the CREG.
   ^6 EMEG = environmental media evaluation guide.
   ^7 CREG = cancer risk evaluation guide.
   ^8 SSL = EPA soil screening level.
   ^9 The first number is the SSL and the second is the CREG.
   ^10 No CV available.

   Next, exposure doses were calculated for the contaminants of concern in
   Table 3. The worst case was assumed to be a ten-year-old contacting the
   maximum concentration of each contaminant for about half a day for 52
   days out of the year.

   For this scenario, the exposure doses estimated for sediment are at
   least ten times smaller than exposure doses estimated for the source
   areas. The estimated exposure doses are well below the MRLs for arsenic
   and PAHs. At these concentrations, the increased risk of developing
   cancer is

   Soil Pathway

   People trespassing on the site for hunting, fishing, or other purposes
   could come into contact with soil contaminated by the source areas.
   People could get soil particles on their skin, or they might
   accidentally eat or breathe in the soil. There is no data on
   contaminant levels in soil at this time; only the source areas have
   been sampled. It is assumed that the soil contamination is no greater
   than source area contamination. However, it is possible that not all
   source areas have been discovered, and additional soil contamination
   may exist. Therefore, any potential impact to public health cannot be
   determined until further investigation and/or additional sampling is
   conducted.

   Biota Pathway

   Hunting and fishing takes place on the site. Hunters, fishers, and
   their families may consume animals and fish that may have
   bioaccumulated contaminants from the wastes and sediments on the site.
   No data on contaminant levels in fish and animals from the site have
   been collected. There was little vegetation growing directly on the
   source areas, and it is therefore unlikely that animals could
   accumulate appreciable amounts of contaminants through eating
   vegetation. Based on the sediment data available, it is unlikely that
   fish would be affected to a large degree by contaminants. However,
   further characterization of the site may indicate that testing of fish
   tissue is warranted.

   Physical Hazards

   The site contains physical hazards which warrant restricting access.
   The rusted, partially crushed drums could have sharp edges, and areas
   with large quantities of broken glass were observed. A complete site
   characterization has not been performed as of the writing of this
   report, so other materials on site may also pose physical hazards.
   Top of Page

   Potential Exposure Pathways

   Well Water Pathway

   Contaminants from the source areas could infiltrate into the
   groundwater beneath the site. If people used this groundwater for
   drinking, they could be exposed to contaminants. According to the Site
   Inspection Report [2], there are no private drinking water wells within
   one mile of the site. This pathway will not be evaluated further
   because the current information indicates that no one is drinking
   groundwater near the site. If the well survey to be performed in
   conjunction with the remedial investigation shows wells have recently
   been installed near the site, we will evaluate this pathway at that
   time.

   Air Pathway

   Contaminants may volatilize from the source area, or particles may be
   transported as fugitive dust. People could breathe in these
   contaminants or get them on their skin. There is no data on air
   contaminants from the Imperial Refining site. Based on the current
   conditions at the site and the source area makeup, it is extremely
   unlikely that contaminants are being transported through this pathway.
   The main contaminants in the source areas are not very volatile, and
   the source areas do not appear to crumble into small enough particles
   to create dust.

   Due to the age of the contamination, more volatile contaminants were
   probably released in the past. While people could have been exposed to
   these contaminants, the rural nature of the area suggests that exposure
   was not great or frequent enough to significantly affect people's
   health.

   Child Health Initiative

   ATSDR recognizes that infants and children may be more vulnerable to
   exposures than adults in communities faced with contamination of their
   air, water, soil, or food. This vulnerability is a result of the
   following factors:
     * Children are more likely to play outdoors and bring food into
       contaminated areas.
     * Children are shorter, resulting in a greater likelihood to breathe
       dust, soil, and heavy vapors close to the ground.
     * Children are smaller, resulting in higher doses of chemical
       exposure per body weight.
     * The developing body systems of children can sustain permanent
       damage if toxic exposures occur during critical growth stages.

   Because children depend completely on adults for risk identification
   and management decisions, ATSDR is committed to evaluating their
   special interests at the Imperial Refining Company site as part of the
   ATSDR Child Health Initiative.

   The major exposure route for children living near the Imperial Refining
   Company NPL site is ingestion of surface soil. Please refer to the
   appropriate section for discussion of the health effects that are
   possible for these children.

   Health Outcome Data

   The Superfund law requires that health outcome data be considered in a
   public health assessment. Health outcome data may include mortality
   information (e.g., the number of people dying from a certain disease)
   or morbidity information (e.g., the number of people in an area getting
   a certain disease or illness). In order to thoroughly evaluate health
   outcome data as it relates to a hazardous waste site, the following
   elements are necessary: (1) the presence of a completed human exposure
   pathway, (2) sufficiently high contaminant levels to result in
   measurable health effects, (3) sufficient number of people in the
   completed pathway for the health effect to be measured, and (4) a
   health outcome database in which disease rates for populations of
   concern can be identified.

   The Imperial Refining site does not meet the requirements for including
   an evaluation of health outcome data in a public health assessment.
   While there are completed human exposure pathways at this site, the
   contaminant levels, exposures, and exposed population are not great
   enough to result in a meaningful measurement of health outcome data.

   Community Health Concerns

   On January 24, 2001, ATSDR had a public availability session in
   Ardmore. The meeting was attended by approximately 5 residents of
   Ardmore, as well as several officials from city, state, and federal
   organizations. The community voiced only one concern regarding human
   health in the area and it is summarized below:

   Concern: About 3-4 years ago, during a summer night, a strong odor was
   coming from the area of the Imperial Refining site. It smelled like
   rotten eggs, but did not seem to be coming from the refinery treatment
   ponds (located west of the Imperial Refining site). Also at this time,
   a welding torch flared up, like there was something flammable in the
   air. This occurred about a quarter mile south of the site.

   Response: Of course, at this point in time, it is very difficult to
   determine the true cause of the past odor. But we do use past
   information like this to help us evaluate site conditions and, when
   appropriate, direct future sampling efforts. Observations about the
   site are always appreciated.

   A rotten egg smell usually indicates hydrogen sulfide in the air.
   Hydrogen sulfide is a colorless, flammable gas and is found naturally
   or may be produced from man-made processes. It is often the result of
   bacteria breaking down organic matter. This could occur in sewage
   treatment plants or in wetlands. Since hydrogen sulfide is found in
   crude petroleum, refineries may also be a source of this compound.

   Because hydrogen sulfide gas is heavier than air, it is possible that
   the gas collected in a low area downwind of the source. People are very
   sensitive to hydrogen sulfide and can smell it at low concentrations
   (around 0.5 parts of gas per billion parts of air). At higher
   concentrations, it can be irritating to your eyes and throat or cause
   even more serious health problems. Since this situation was out in the
   open, it is unlikely that any gas present could build up to very high
   concentrations. The citizen reporting this odor did not describe any
   health problems resulting from it.

   A welding torch flaring up could result from a number of conditions,
   including something with the welding operation itself. If an outside
   gas was the cause, it could be another naturally occurring gas,
   methane. Methane is also produced by bacteria breaking down organic
   material, such as in landfills or sewage plants. When large amounts of
   methane are produced, it can pose an explosive hazard if it collects in
   confined spaces. Methane is an odorless gas and is not otherwise
   considered toxic or harmful. For the situation described by the
   citizen, again, it is impossible for us to determine years later
   exactly what caused the flare up.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Top of Page

   Conclusions

   1. Based on the available environmental data and the limited use of the
   site, the Imperial Refining Company does not pose a health hazard to
   citizens at this time. This is categorized by ATSDR as "no apparent
   public health hazard". However, changing exposure scenarios, such as
   residential development of the site or the addition of a playground,
   could alter this conclusion.

   2. The site is not sufficiently characterized regarding contaminant
   levels. Further information on contaminant types and levels in soils
   may modify the above conclusion.

   3. There are physical hazards on the site.

   4. Off-site contaminant migration has not been determined for the site.

   Recommendations
     * ATSDR recommends that contamination at the site be fully
       characterized. This should include measuring contamination in the
       soil, soil gas, shallow groundwater, surface water, and sediment.
       Based on the surface water and sediment findings, fish tissue
       sampling may be warranted.
     * Until the site is fully characterized and to prevent injury from
       the physical hazards at the site, ATSDR recommends restricting
       access through such actions as fencing or posting. Proposed land
       uses should be reviewed for public health impact.
     * ATSDR recommends that off-site migration of site contamination, if
       any, be characterized.

   Public Health Action Plan

   The Public Health Action Plan for the Imperial Refining Company NPL
   Site contains a description of actions to be taken by ATSDR at the site
   after the completion of this public health assessment. The purpose of
   the Public Health Action Plan is to ensure that this public health
   assessment not only identifies public health hazards, but provides a
   plan of action designed to mitigate and prevent adverse human health
   effects resulting from exposure to hazardous substances in the
   environment. Included is a commitment on the part of ATSDR to follow up
   on this plan to ensure that it is implemented. The public health action
   to be implemented is as follows:
     * A fact sheet on the site and the findings of this public health
       assessment will be developed and distributed to citizens living
       near the site.
     * Additional environmental sampling results for the site will be
       reviewed as needed, and the possible public health implications
       will be evaluated.

   ATSDR will reevaluate and expand the Public Health Action Plan when
   needed. New environmental, toxicological, or health outcome data or the
   results of implementing the above proposed actions may determine the
   need for additional actions at this site.

   Site Team

                              Authors of Report

                            Jill J. Dyken, Ph.D.
                       Environmental Health Scientist
                      Superfund Site Assessment Branch
               Division of Health Assessment and Consultation
                               Barbara Cooper
                       Environmental Health Scientist
                      Superfund Site Assessment Branch
               Division of Health Assessment and Consultation
                               Patrick Young
                          Regional Representative
                              ATSDR Region 6
                            Regional Operations
                           Community Involvement
                                Dawn O'Connor
                      Community Involvement Specialist
                        Community Involvement Branch
               Division of Health Assessment and Consultation

   References
     * Ecology and Environment. Removal Assessment Report for Imperial
       Refining Company. Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection
       Agency, Region VI. Dallas, TX: May 1999.
     * Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality. Site Inspection
       Narrative Report. Oklahoma City, OK: July 1998.
     * US Environmental Protection Agency. Exposure factors handbook.
       Washington, DC: US Environmental Protection Agency. Office of
       Research and Development. EPA/600/C-99/001: February 1999.
     * Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Toxicological
       profile for arsenic: update. Atlanta: US Department of Health and
       Human Services, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry,
       2000.
     * Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Toxicological
       profile for lead: update. Atlanta: US Department of Health and
       Human Services, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry,
       1999.
     * Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Toxicological
       profile for naphthalene: update. Atlanta: US Department of Health
       and Human Services, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
       Registry, 1995.
     * Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Toxicological
       profile for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs): update.
       Atlanta: US Department of Health and Human Services, Agency for
       Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, 1995.
     * Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Toxicological
       profile for chloroform: update. Atlanta: US Department of Health
       and Human Services, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
       Registry, 1997.

   Top of Page

   Appendix A. Explanation of Evaluation Process

   Screening Process

   In evaluating these data, ATSDR used comparison values to determine
   which chemicals to examine more closely. Comparison Values (CVs) are
   the contaminant concentrations found in a specific media (air, soil, or
   water) and are used to select contaminants for further evaluation. CVs
   incorporate assumptions of daily exposure to the chemical and a
   standard amount of air, water, and soil that someone may inhale or
   ingest each day.

   As health-based thresholds, CVs are set at a concentration below which
   no known or anticipated adverse human health effects are expected to
   occur. Different comparison values are developed for cancer and
   non-cancer health effects. Non-cancer levels are based on valid
   toxicologic studies for a chemical, with appropriate safety factors
   included, and the assumption that small children (22 pounds) and adults
   are exposed every day. Cancer levels are the media concentrations at
   which there could be a one in a million excess cancer risk for an adult
   eating contaminated soil or drinking contaminated water every day for
   70 years. For chemicals for which both cancer and non-cancer numbers
   exist, the lower level is used to be protective. Exceeding a comparison
   value does not mean that health effects will occur, just that more
   evaluation is needed.

   CVs used in this document are listed below:

   Environmental Media Evaluation Guides (EMEGs) are estimated contaminant
   concentrations in a media where non-carcinogenic health effects are
   unlikely. The EMEG is derived from U.S. Agency for Toxic Substances and
   Disease Registry's (ATSDR's) minimal risk level (MRL).

   Cancer Risk Evaluation Guides (CREGs) are estimated contaminant
   concentrations that would be expected to cause no more than one
   additional excess cancer in a million persons exposed over a lifetime.
   CREGs are calculated from EPA's cancer slope factors (CSFs).

   EPA Soil Screening Levels (SSLs) are estimated contaminant
   concentrations in soil at which additional evaluation is needed to
   determine if action is required to eliminate or reduce exposure.

   Evaluation of Public Health Implications

   The next step is to take those contaminants that are greater than the
   comparison values and further identify which chemicals and exposure
   situations are likely to be a health hazard. Child and adult exposure
   doses are calculated for the site-specific exposure scenario, using our
   assumptions of who goes on the site and how often they contact the site
   contaminants. The exposure dose is the amount of a contaminant that
   gets into a person's body. The following is a brief explanation of how
   we calculated the estimated exposure doses for the Imperial Refining
   site.

   Source Area Contaminant Ingestion

   Exposure doses for ingestion of contaminants from the source areas were
   calculated in the following manner. The maximum concentration measured
   in the source areas, in mg/kg (or ppm), was multiplied by the soil
   ingestion rate for adults, 0.0001 kg/day, or children, 0.0002 kg/day.
   The multiplication product was divided by the average weight for an
   adult, 70 kg (154 pounds) or a ten-year old child, 36.3 kg (80 pounds).
   The resulting dose was then multiplied by a factor of 52/365, because
   the exposure was assumed to occur on average of once a week throughout
   the year.

   Surface Water Ingestion

   Exposure doses for surface water ingestion were calculated in the
   following manner. The maximum concentration for a surface water
   contaminant, in milligrams per liter (mg/L), was multiplied by an
   incidental surface water ingestion rate of 0.02 liters/day for adults
   or 0.01 liter/day for children. These ingestion rates are 1/100th of
   the EPA default drinking water rates. The multiplication product was
   divided by the average weight for an adult, 70 kg (154 pounds), or for
   a ten-year old child, 36.3 kg (80 pounds). The resulting dose was then
   multiplied by a factor of 52/365, because the exposure was assumed to
   occur on average once a week throughout the year.

   Sediment Ingestion

   Exposure doses for ingestion of contaminants from the sediment were
   calculated in the following manner. The maximum concentration measured
   in the sediment, in mg/kg (or ppm), was multiplied by one-tenth of the
   soil ingestion rate, 0.00001 kg/day for adults or 0.00002 kg/day for
   children. The multiplication product was divided by the average weight
   for an adult, 70 kg (154 pounds) or a ten-year-old child, 36.3 kg (80
   pounds). The resulting dose was then multiplied by a factor of 52/365,
   because the exposure was assumed to occur on average once a week
   throughout the year.

   Dermal (Skin) Exposure

   Dermal absorption depends on numerous factors including the area of
   exposed skin, anatomical location of exposed skin, length of contact,
   concentration of chemical on skin, chemical-specific permeability, soil
   adherence, medium in which the chemical is applied, and skin condition
   and integrity. Because chemicals differ greatly in their potential to
   be absorbed through the skin, each chemical needs to be evaluated
   separately and is discussed as needed in the main body of the public
   health assessment. The assumed exposure frequency and duration for
   contact with the soil, sediment, and surface water is the same as used
   above for the ingestion route. The skin surface area and soil-to-skin
   adherence factors used in this public health assessment were taken from
   EPA's Exposure Factor Handbook^ (1). Absorption factors and other
   chemical-specific factors were taken from the ATSDR toxicological
   profile for that chemical.

   The calculated exposure doses are then compared to an appropriate
   health guideline for that chemical. Health guideline values are
   considered safe doses; that is, health effects are unlikely below this
   level. The health guideline value is based on valid toxicologic studies
   for a chemical, with appropriate safety factors built-in to account for
   human variation, animal-to-human differences, and/or the use of the
   lowest adverse effect level. For non-cancer health effects, the
   following health guideline values are used.

   Minimal Risk Level (MRLs) - developed by ATSDR

   An estimate of daily human exposure - by a specified route and length
   of time - to a dose of chemical that is likely to be without a
   measurable risk of adverse, noncancerous effects. An MRL should not be
   used as a predictor of adverse Non-Cancer Health Effectshealth effects.
   A list of MRLs can be found at ATSDR's internet site:
   http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/mrls.html.

   Reference Dose (RfD) - developed by EPA

   An estimate, with safety factors built in, of the daily, life-time
   exposure of human populations to a possible hazard that is not likely
   to cause noncancerous health effects. The RfDs can be found at EPA's
   Integrated Risk Information System internet site:
   http://www.epa.gov/iris/ Exiting ATSDR. .

   If the estimated exposure dose for a chemical is less than the health
   guideline value, then it is concluded that the exposure is unlikely to
   cause a non-carcinogenic health affect in that specific situation. If
   the exposure dose for a chemical is greater than the health guideline,
   then the exposure dose is compared to known toxicological values for
   that chemical and is discussed in more detail in the public health
   assessment (see Discussion Section). These toxicological values are
   doses derived from human and animal studies which are summarized in the
   ATSDR Toxicological Profiles. A direct comparison of site-specific
   exposure and doses to study-derived exposures and doses found to cause
   adverse health effects is the basis for deciding whether health effects
   are likely or not.

   Calculation of Risk of Carcinogenic Effects

   The estimated risk of developing cancer from exposure to the
   contaminants was calculated through the following procedure. The
   site-specific adult exposure dose was multiplied by EPA's corresponding
   Cancer Slope Factor (which can be found at EPA's Integrated Risk
   Information System internet site, http://www.epa.gov/iris/ Exiting
   ATSDR. ). The results estimate the maximum increase in risk of
   developing cancer after 70 years of exposure to the contaminant.

   The actual risk of cancer is probably lower than the calculated number.
   The method used to calculate EPA's Cancer Slope Factor assumes that
   high-dose animal data can be used to estimate the risk for low dose
   exposures in humans. The method also assumes that there is no safe
   level for exposure. There is little experimental evidence to confirm or
   refute those two assumptions. Lastly, the method computes the 95
   percent upper bound for the risk, rather than the average risk,
   suggesting that the cancer risk is actually lower, perhaps by several
   orders of magnitude.^ (2)

   Because of uncertainties involved in estimating carcinogenic risk,
   ATSDR employs a weight-of-evidence approach in evaluating all relevant
   data^ (3). Therefore, the carcinogenic risk is described in words
   (qualitatively) rather than giving a numerical risk estimate only. The
   numerical risk estimate must be considered in the context of the
   variables and assumptions involved in their derivation and in the
   broader context of biomedical opinion, host factors, and actual
   exposure conditions. The actual parameters of environmental exposures
   must be given careful consideration in evaluating the assumptions and
   variables relating to both toxicity and exposure.

   Appendix B. Exposure Pathways for Imperial Refining Company Site

   SOURCE FOR ALL PATHWAYS: Bottoms Material from Defunct Refinery Tanks
   PATHWAY NAME ENVIRONMENTAL MEDIA & TRANSPORT MECHANISMS POINT OF
   EXPOSURE ROUTE OF EXPOSURE EXPOSED POPULATION TIME NOTES COM- PLETE?
   Waste Sources Waste deposited throughout site Waste Sources on Site
   Incidental Ingestion, Inhalation, Dermal Exposure Hunters, Fishers,
   Trespassing Children and Adults Past, Present, Future Population may
   include children 10 years and older. Y
   Surface water Surface water runoff over wastes to creek and wetlands
   Along creek, water in pond Incidental Ingestion, Inhalation, Dermal
   Exposure Hunters, Fishers, Trespassing Children and Adults Past,
   Present, Future Population may include children 10 years and older. Y
   Sediments Deposition from surface water runoff into and alongside creek
   and ponds Along creek, water in pond Incidental Ingestion, Dermal
   Exposure Hunters, Fishers, Trespassing Children and Adults Past,
   Present, Future Population may include children 10 years and older. Y
   Soil Erosion of waste to surface soils; redeposition of fugitive dust
   Site soils, residences nearby Incidental Ingestion, Inhalation, Dermal
   Exposure Nearby Residents, Hunters, Fishers, Trespassing Children and
   Adults Past, Present, Future Population may include children 10 years
   and older. Y
   Biota Bioaccumulation of contaminants from surface water and sediments
   and vegetation into fish and/or deer Meal prepared using fish from site
   pond or deer from site Ingestion Hunters, Fishers, and their families
   Past, Present, Future Population may include young children Y
   Well Water Infiltration to groundwater Groundwater Wells Supplying
   Drinking Water Taps Ingestion, Inhalation, Dermal Exposure Residents
   and Workers near the site Past, Present, Future Population may include
   young children N
   Air Volatilization of contaminants; fugitive dust Groundwater Wells
   Supplying Drinking Water Taps Inhalation, Dermal Exposure Residents and
   Workers near the site Past, Present, Future Population may include
   young children N

   Top of Page

   Appendix C. ATSDR Plain Language Glossary of Environmental Health Terms
   Terms

   Absorption: How a chemical enters a person's blood after the chemical
   has been swallowed, has come into contact with the skin, or has been
   breathed in.
   Acute Exposure: Contact with a chemical that happens once or only for a
   limited period of time. ATSDR defines acute exposures as those that
   might last up to 14 days.
   Additive Effect: A response to a chemical mixture, or combination of
   substances, that might be expected if the known effects of individual
   chemicals, seen at specific doses, were added together.
   Adverse Health Effect: A change in body function or the structures of
   cells that can lead to disease or health problems.
   Antagonistic Effect: A response to a mixture of chemicals or
   combination of substances that is less than might be expected if the
   known effects of individual chemicals, seen at specific doses, were
   added together.
   ATSDR: The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. ATSDR is a
   federal health agency in Atlanta, Georgia that deals with hazardous
   substance and waste site issues. ATSDR gives people information about
   harmful chemicals in their environment and tells people how to protect
   themselves from coming into contact with chemicals.
   Background Level: An average or expected amount of a chemical in a
   specific environment. Or, amounts of chemicals that occur naturally in
   a specific environment.
   Bioavailability: See Relative Bioavailability.
   Biota: Used in public health, things that humans would eat - including
   animals, fish and plants.
   Cancer: A group of diseases which occur when cells in the body become
   abnormal and grow, or multiply, out of control
   Carcinogen: Any substance shown to cause tumors or cancer in
   experimental studies.
   Chronic Exposure: A contact with a substance or chemical that happens
   over a long period of time. ATSDR considers exposures of more than one
   year to be chronic.
   Completed Exposure Pathway: See Exposure Pathway.
   Community Assistance Panel (CAP): A group of people from the community
   and health and environmental agencies who work together on issues and
   problems at hazardous waste sites.
   Comparison Value: (CVs) Concentrations of substances in air, water,
   food, and soil that are unlikely, upon exposure, to cause adverse
   health effects. Comparison values are used by health assessors to
   select which substances and environmental media (air, water, food and
   soil) need additional evaluation while health concerns or effects are
   investigated.
   Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
   (CERCLA): CERCLA was put into place in 1980. It is also known as
   Superfund. This act concerns releases of hazardous substances into the
   environment, and the cleanup of these substances and hazardous waste
   sites. This act created ATSDR and gave it the responsibility to look
   into health issues related to hazardous waste sites.
   Concentration: How much or the amount of a substance present in a
   certain amount of soil, water, air, or food.
   Contaminant: See Environmental Contaminant.
   Delayed Health Effect: A disease or injury that happens as a result of
   exposures that may have occurred far in the past.
   Dermal Contact: A chemical getting onto your skin. (see Route of
   Exposure).
   Dose: The amount of a substance to which a person may be exposed,
   usually on a daily basis. Dose is often explained as "amount of
   substance(s) per body weight per day".
   Dose / Response: The relationship between the amount of exposure (dose)
   and the change in body function or health that result.
   Duration: The amount of time (days, months, years) that a person is
   exposed to a chemical.
   Environmental Contaminant: A substance (chemical) that gets into a
   system (person, animal, or the environment) in amounts higher than the
   Background Level, or what would be expected.
   Environmental Media: Usually refers to the air, water, and soil in
   which chemicals of interest are found. Sometimes refers to the plants
   and animals that are eaten by humans. Environmental Media is the second
   part of an Exposure Pathway.
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):
   The federal agency that develops and enforces environmental laws to
   protect the environment and the public's health.
   Epidemiology: The study of the different factors that determine how
   often, in how many people, and in which people will disease occur.
   Exposure: Coming into contact with a chemical substance.(For the three
   ways people can come in contact with substances, see Route of
   Exposure.)
   Exposure Assessment: The process of finding the ways people come in
   contact with chemicals, how often and how long they come in contact
   with chemicals, and the amounts of chemicals with which they come in
   contact.
   Exposure Pathway:
   A description of the way that a chemical moves from its source (where
   it began) to where and how people can come into contact with (or get
   exposed to) the chemical.

   ATSDR defines an exposure pathway as having 5 parts:

   1. Source of Contamination,

   2. Environmental Media and Transport Mechanism,

   3. Point of Exposure,

   4. Route of Exposure, and

   5. Receptor Population.

   When all 5 parts of an exposure pathway are present, it is called a
   Completed Exposure Pathway. Each of these 5 terms is defined in this
   Glossary.
   Frequency: How often a person is exposed to a chemical over time; for
   example, every day, once a week, twice a month.
   Hazardous Waste: Substances that have been released or thrown away into
   the environment and, under certain conditions, could be harmful to
   people who come into contact with them.
   Health Effect: ATSDR deals only with Adverse Health Effects (see
   definition in this Glossary).
   Indeterminate Public Health Hazard: The category is used in Public
   Health Assessment documents for sites where important information is
   lacking (missing or has not yet been gathered) about site-related
   chemical exposures.
   Ingestion: Swallowing something, as in eating or drinking. It is a way
   a chemical can enter your body (See Route of Exposure).
   Inhalation: Breathing. It is a way a chemical can enter your body (See
   Route of Exposure).
   LOAEL: Lowest Observed Adverse Effect Level. The lowest dose of a
   chemical in a study, or group of studies, that has caused harmful
   health effects in people or animals.
   Malignancy: See Cancer.
   MRL: Minimal Risk Level. An estimate of daily human exposure - by a
   specified route and length of time -- to a dose of chemical that is
   likely to be without a measurable risk of adverse, noncancerous
   effects. An MRL should not be used as a predictor of adverse health
   effects.
   NPL: The National Priorities List. (Which is part of Superfund.) A list
   kept by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the most
   serious uncontrolled or abandoned hazardous waste sites in the country.
   An NPL site needs to be cleaned up or is being looked at to see if
   people can be exposed to chemicals from the site.
   NOAEL: No Observed Adverse Effect Level. The highest dose of a chemical
   in a study, or group of studies, that did not cause harmful health
   effects in people or animals.
   No Apparent Public Health Hazard: The category is used in ATSDR's
   Public Health Assessment documents for sites where exposure to
   site-related chemicals may have occurred in the past or is still
   occurring but the exposures are not at levels expected to cause adverse
   health effects.
   No Public Health Hazard: The category is used in ATSDR's Public Health
   Assessment documents for sites where there is evidence of an absence of
   exposure to site-related chemicals.
   PHA: Public Health Assessment. A report or document that looks at
   chemicals at a hazardous waste site and tells if people could be harmed
   from coming into contact with those chemicals. The PHA also tells if
   possible further public health actions are needed.
   Plume: A line or column of air or water containing chemicals moving
   from the source to areas further away. A plume can be a column or
   clouds of smoke from a chimney or contaminated underground water
   sources or contaminated surface water (such as lakes, ponds and
   streams).
   Point of Exposure: The place where someone can come into contact with a
   contaminated environmental medium (air, water, food or soil). Some
   examples include: the area of a playground that has contaminated dirt,
   a contaminated spring used for drinking water, or the backyard area
   where someone might breathe contaminated air.
   Population: A group of people living in a certain area; or the number
   of people in a certain area.
   PRP: Potentially Responsible Party. A company, government or person
   that is responsible for causing the pollution at a hazardous waste
   site. PRP's are expected to help pay for the clean up of a site.
   Public Health Assessment(s): See PHA.
   Public Health Hazard: The category is used in PHAs for sites that have
   certain physical features or evidence of chronic, site-related chemical
   exposure that could result in adverse health effects.
   Public Health Hazard Criteria: PHA categories given to a site which
   tell whether people could be harmed by conditions present at the site.
   Each are defined in the Glossary. The categories are:

   - Urgent Public Health Hazard

   - Public Health Hazard

   - Indeterminate Public Health Hazard

   - No Apparent Public Health Hazard

   - No Public Health Hazard
   Receptor Population: People who live or work in the path of one or more
   chemicals, and who could come into contact with them (See Exposure
   Pathway).
   Reference Dose (RfD): An estimate, with safety factors (see safety
   factor) built in, of the daily, life-time exposure of human populations
   to a possible hazard that is not likely to cause harm to the person.
   Relative Bioavailability:
