http://nasadaacs.eos.nasa.gov/yearbooks/index.html

   DAACs Yearbooks
         art element art element art element

   art element

   DAAC yearbooks are published by the NSIDC Communications Group at the
   National Snow and Ice Data Center DAAC, under NASA Contract No.
   NAS5-32392. Selected yearbook articles have been featured on NASA's
   Distributed Active Archive Centers or NASA's Earth Observatory.

   For the complete text of any yearbook article, select from the list
   below.

   Print copies of current and past issues, while still available, may be
   ordered at no charge from the National Snow and Ice Data Center. Email
   your request to nsidc@nsidc.org.

   2000/2001 Yearbook:
   Introduction by Vanessa Griffin, manager, ESDIS Science Operations
   Office
   This seventh edition illustrates research uses of Earth observing data
   from NASA's Earth Science Enterprise.
   Location, Location, Location
   Scientists review geographic factors to learn why wealth concentrates
   predominantly in temperate zones. by Rachel Hauser
   Life on the Brink
   Detailed population data help researchers understand why people choose
   to live on and near volcanoes. by Rachel Hauser
   Measure for Measure
   Governments and policy makers turn to science to better understand the
   impacts of global sea level rise on coastal cities. by Rachel Hauser
   Clouds in the Balance
   In 1998, atmospheric scientists discovered a significant change in
   cloud vertical structure triggered by the strongest El Ni침o on record.

   Well Grounded
   Teamwork plays a key role in the MODIS land validation project. by
   Rachel Hauser
   New Light on Ice Motion
   MODIS' unprecedented high resolution reveals clues to antarctic
   topography and ice history. by Rachel Hauser
   When Land Slides
   Data imaging techniques provide scientists with new tools to study and
   map landslides. by Laurie J. Schmidt
   Where Frogs Live
   Researchers use remote sensing to monitor amphibian health. by Michon
   Scott
   A View From Above
   Teams of interdisciplinary scientists track carbon exchange between the
   Earth's forests and atmosphere. by Rachel Hauser
   In the Eyewall of the Storm
   Storm hunters fly into the upper altitudes of Hurricane Bonnie to study
   the hurricane intensification process. by Laurie J. Schmidt
   Forecasting Fury
   Imagery from the SeaWinds satellite instrument enables earlier
   detection of approaching hurricanes. by Laurie J. Schmidt
   When the Dust Settles
   Scientists examine a possible link between the decline of Caribbean
   marine species and African dust transport. by Laurie J. Schmidt
   From the Dust Bowl to the Sahel
   Severe drought and poor soil conservation practices contribute to
   desertification. by Laurie J. Schmidt

   1999/2000 Yearbook:
   New Tools for Diplomacy
   Remote sensing use in international law by Laurie J. Schmidt
   Illuminating Photosynthesis in the Arabian Sea
   Researchers define an ocean's seasonal cycle. by Matt Nelson
   Climate Clues in the Ice
   Newly available upward-looking sonar shows significant decreases in sea
   ice thickness in recent decades. by Laurie J. Schmidt
   Volcanoes and Climate Change
   The role of volcanic aerosols in global climate change by Jason Wolfe
   Polynyas, CO2, and Diatoms in the Southern Ocean
   Climate models predict a dramatic shift in phytoplankton communities.
   by Laurie J. Schmidt
   Stars, Clouds, Crops
   Stars' brightness influences planting practices in the Andes. by
   Melissa Robertson
   Perspective on Plants
   Using MODIS to study and manage land by Michon Scott
   Frozen Soils and the Climate System
   Using remote sensing to understand frozen ground by Annette Varani
   Human Impact on the Mojave
   Researching long-term effects of disturbances to desert ecosystems by
   Laurie J. Schmidt
   Disintegration of the Ninnis Glacier Tongue
   SAR captures dramatic Antarctic coastline breakout. by Laurie J.
   Schmidt
   The Universal Language of HDF-EOS
   The need for 충 and issues with 충 a standard file format by Laurie J.
   Schmidt
   Distributed Oceanographic Data System
   Intelligent data interfaces in the service of science by Rachel Hauser
   The Mercury System and the Search for Earth Science Data
   New search tool eases data acquisition by Annette Varani

   1998 Yearbook:
   Ice and Sky
   The availability of the Canadian RADARSAT Synthetic Aperture Radar
   (SAR) data and new algorithms make it possible to detect open water in
   polar ice from space. by Annette Varani
   Lovely, Dark and Deep
   Mysteries of ocean mixing are yielding to TOPEX/POSEIDON. by Rosana
   Hemakom
   Hurricane Field Studies
   The Third Convection and Moisture Experiment has provided forecasters
   with a more realistic storm picture. by Annette Varani
   The NOAA/NASA Pathfinder Program
   In addition to a rich data yield, the Pathfinder Program's value in
   pioneering data management issues will be measured in the EOS-era
   ahead. by Annette Varani
   Shadows of Doubt: Modeling Cloud Effects
   Understanding the complex interplay between clouds and radiation is
   critical for developing general circulation models that precisely
   represent the global climate. by Carol Smith
   On a Clear Day
   Researchers clarified the issues encountered in modeling clear-sky
   shortwave radiation by assembling a long-term data set of cloud-free
   days to test the models. by Carol Smith
   Snow and Ice Extent
   In December 1998, field support crews had to find a way to locate
   regions of sea ice dense enough to allow the U.S. Coast Guard ice
   breaker Polar Star to dock. by Rachel Hauser
   The UARS Cornucopia: A Legacy of Research
   Nine years after its initial deployment, the Upper Atmosphere Research
   Satellite (UARS) is still delivering. by Matt Nelson
   Eye on the Sun
   SOLSTICE has created a standard against which future monitoring of the
   sun may be measured. by Matt Nelson
   Equal Area Scalable Earth-Grid: A Move Toward Data Mapping Standards
   The availability of a standard gridding scheme is a fundamental
   requirement for systematic time-series studies and direct digital
   comparison of different satellite data sets. by Annette Varani
   A New Paradigm for Managing Data and Information
   The Mercury System puts data management control in the hands of
   scientific investigators. by Rachel Hauser
   Effects of Emissions on Climate Change
   A Web-based information system provides open access to detailed IPCC
   scenarios. by John Borstelman
   Virtual Data Center
   The Virtual Domain Application Data Center (VDADC) allows users to test
   drive data on the Web before committing to data download. by Rachel
   Hauser
   Overcoming Data Incompatibility
   What if you could select Earth Science data as easily as you could
   browse the Web? by Rachel Hauser

   1997 Yearbook:
   Melt-down
   The Greenland ice sheet is losing ground. by Jason Starr
   RAMPing Up
   Multinational teamwork yields a high-resolution map of Antarctica. by
   Rachel Hauser
   The Dirt on Carbon
   Researchers examine the implications of melting permafrost in the
   northern forests. by Laura Cheshire
   Snow Sleuths
   Scientists use ground-based measurements to learn how snow looks from
   space. by Rachel Hauser
   On Thin Ice
   Satellite data fills the gaps in shore-based ice observations. by
   Rachel Hauser
   Eye on the Ocean
   ENSO events are getting easier to predict, thanks to TOPEX/POSEIDON. by
   Jason Starr
   China Dimensions
   Versatile online census data proves a useful teaching tool for a
   Chinese researcher. by Jason Starr
   Upper Crust
   Krill fight for survival as sea ice melts. by Rachel Hauser
   Blanket of Clouds
   Recent studies indicate that clouds absorb significantly more shortwave
   radiation than previously thought. by Dan Whipple
   Questioning Convection
   How well do climate models work? by Dan Whipple
   River Seasons
   Using remote sensing data helps scientists to understand large river
   system and basin hydrology. by Laura Cheshire
   Glacier Power
   Exciting new glacier curriculum developed with SAR data by Rachel
   Hauser
   Outer Limits
   How does the upper atmosphere influence Earth's climate? by Dan Whipple
   UARS: A Model Data Set
   Scientists gain a new view of the mesosphere. by Dan Whipple
   Growing Data
   Researchers use satellite data to characterize the seasonal dynamics of
   Arctic vegetation. by Rachel Hauser
   Carbon Conundrum
   Paradoxically, an increase in global temperature may both increase and
   decrease atmospheric carbon dioxide 충 the key is in the timing. by Dan
   Whipple
   Critical Chemistry
   Mapping ozone's global distribution using data from the Global
   Tropospheric Experiment by Dan Whipple

   1996 Yearbook:
   These selected articles are also available in the complete online 1996
   DAAC Yearbook.
   Reckoning with Winds
   New wind data are opening the facts on typhoon transitions to
   mid-latitude storms, and on the ocean monsoon breeding grounds. by
   Annette Varani
   Clouds in a Clear Sky
   Scientists have detected a nearly invisible cloud layer that may
   explain dryness in the stratosphere. by Annette Varani
   Visions of a Cloudy Continent
   A combination of cloud-free satellite imagery and digital elevation
   data has revealed the face of Antarctica. by Mike Meshek
   Data in a Flash
   A new global change research tool detects lightning day and night. by
   Mike Meshek
   Fish in the Trees
   An international collaboration may lead to accurate assessments of
   water storage on Amazonian floodplains during rainy seasons. by Rachel
   Hauser
   A Burning Question
   Evidence suggests that atmospheric aerosols from biomass burning may
   offset global warming caused by greenhouse gases. by Annette Varani
   Silvus Borealis
   A multi-scale project leads to understanding the carbon flux between
   terrestrial ecosystems and the lower atmosphere. by Rachel Hauser
   Polar Paradox
   Global warming could lead to another ice age. by Rachel Hauser
   Fire and Ice
   The eruption of Mt. Pinatubo led to new techniques for detecting
   short-term climate variation. by Rachel Hauser
   Grassland Initiative
   Researchers establish a baseline for understanding net primary
   productivity. by Rachel Hauser

   1996 DAAC Yearbook

   1995 DAAC Yearbook

   1994 DAAC Yearbook


   art element
   NASA DAACs Home
   Contact Us
   NASA
