http://www.plia.wa.gov/disclaim.html

                 Go to Access Washington Return to PLIA Home

   Home About Us UST Reinsurance Heating Oil Insurance Heating Oil Advice
   and Assistance Heating Oil Tank Decommissioning Community Assistance
   Program Lender Liability Disclaimer

   The information in this Web site is being made available to you as a
   public service by the Pollution Liability Insurance Agency and does not
   constitute legal or professional advice. Neither the Pollution
   Liability Insurance Agency, nor any agency, officer, or employee of the
   State of Washington warrants the accuracy, reliability, or timeliness
   of any information in this Web site. Neither the Pollution Liability
   Insurance Agency, nor any agency, officer, or employee of the State of
   Washington shall be held liable for any losses caused by reliance on
   the accuracy, reliability, or timeliness of such information.

   Additionally, as a convenience to internet users, this Web site has
   links to other Web sites, however, the listing of such a link does not
   constitute an endorsement of any Web site.

   PRIVACY STATEMENT

   Thank you for visiting the Pollution Liability Insurance Agency (PLIA)
   web site. Please be assured that PLIA is committed to protecting your
   privacy when visiting our web site and when conducting business with
   our agency.  PLIA is further directed to safeguard user's privacy under
   Executive Order 00-03 concerning public record's privacy protection

   Section 374-70-130 of the Washington Administrative Code (WAC) states
   that all information obtained during heating oil tank registration
   shall be confidential and may not be subject to public disclosure under
   Chapters 42.17 RCW.  In addition, all examination and proprietary
   reports and information obtained in soliciting bids from insurers and
   in monitoring the selected insurer shall be confidential and may not be
   made public or otherwise disclosed to any person, firm, corporation,
   agency, association, government body or other entity.

   Please keep in mind, however, that Washington's open public record law
   governs most official business conducted with our agency and is subject
   to disclosure.

   Our Policy
   We will collect no personal information about you when you visit our
   web site unless you choose to give that information to us through an
   e-mail message.  If you are conducting business with PLIA, we will ask
   for only the information needed to complete the transaction or required
   by law.

   Information Collected and Stored
   When you access our web site, no information that identifies you
   personally is automatically collected.  We do not use *cookies to track
   individual user visits.  We do not collect and store information when
   you visit our web site.

   Information on this Web Site Is Considered Public Information
   Because the content of this web site is considered public information,
   it may be copied, downloaded or distributed unless otherwise
   specified.  We request that you give appropriate by-line/photo/image
   credits.

   Use of this information including, but not limited to, addresses,
   telephone numbers or e-mail addresses provided on this site for
   commercial purposes in prohibited under RCW 42.17.260(9).

   If You Send Us Personal Information
   You do not have to give us personal information to visit our web site.
   If you send us an electronic mail message, your e-mail address will
   normally be included as part of the message.  You may also be sending
   us personal information; for example, your name, street address or
   telephone number.

   In all instances, we use the information you send us only to reply to
   your message or to help us get the information or service you
   requested.  We do not create individual profiles from the information
   you provide, nor do we collect information for commercial marketing.

   Conducting Official Business
   When you are conducting official business with PLIA, it is important to
   remember that most of the information you submit, not specifically
   exempt by 374-70130 WAC, is considered public record and is subject to
   disclosure.  Our web site includes a downloadable form.  By sending us
   this form you may be providing personal information.  Only PLIA
   employees have access to personal information. Personal data in PLIA's
   possession is maintained and used is ways that respect individual
   privacy.   PLIA has provided training to its employees about the
   importance of protecting personal information and has adopted a Public
   Inquiries Policy.

   For more information about open public records, visit the Office of the
   Attorney General's web site.   The general statute governing open
   public records - RCW 42.17.250 can be found on the state Code Reviser's
   Office web site at http://slc.leg.wa.gov.

   Correction of Personally Identifiable Information
   You may review any personal information we collect about you.  If you
   find factual errors in your personally identifiable information, you
   may correct them by sending us a written request that shows the error.
   We will take reasonable steps to verify your identity before granting
   access or making corrections.  If you believe that your personal
   information is being used for a purpose other than what was intended
   when submitted, please contact us.

   Links To Other Web Sites
   This web site contains links to other sites outside of our control.
   These include links to web sites operated by other government agencies
   and private businesses.   Additionally, we link to a private web site,
   which provides free software needed to view certain types of files on
   our site.  Once you leave our web site, you are subject to the privacy
   statements of each and every web site that collects personally
   identifiable information.  This privacy statement applies solely to
   information collected by this web site.

   Questions
   If you have any questions, comments or concerns regarding our privacy
   statement, please contact the agencies Privacy Protection Contact:

   Christie Turner
   Pollution Liability Insurance Agency
   P O Box 40930
   Olympia, WA 98504-0930
   Telephone 360-586-5997
   Fax 360-586-7187
   E-mail ctplia@olywa.net

   *A "cookie" is a small text file placed on your computer's hard drive
   at the direction of the host server of the web site you are visiting.
   This file contains information about your visit to that site.

                                [line550.gif]

   Home |About Us | UST Reinsurance | Heating Oil Insurance | Heating Oil
     Advice & Assistance | Tank Decommissioning | Community Assistance |
                              Lender Liability

   Contact the Pollution Liability Insurance Agency.
