http://www.e-commerce.ca.gov/1g_california.html


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report



                     "If I'm so empowered, why do I need you?"
            Defining Government's Role in Internet Electronic Commerce
        __________________________________________________________________

                                 ^California

   California is a great place for e-commerce companies to do business -
   first and foremost because California is simply a great place to do
   business. Combine this attractive commercial climate with public
   policies of specific interest to e-commerce that make sense and have
   kept pace, and it is no wonder that the companies leading the world
   into the Internet Age are at home in California.

   The draw of California's outstanding people, universities,
   entrepreneurial spirit, and dynamic workforce, plus the beautiful
   weather, should not be overlooked, but high taxes, needless regulatory
   costs, and slothful government can easily trump them all. That was the
   situation California businesses faced eight years ago. Combined with a
   national economic downturn and the end of the Cold War, that brought
   with it the immense downsizing of the military's substantial spending
   and presence in the State, the outlook was not good for California
   growing new businesses.

   If in recent years California had not led an effort to cut personal and
   business taxes, reduce costs imposed by government such as an
   out-of-control workers compensation system, and streamline

   California is a great place for e-commerce companies to do business -
   first and foremost because California is simply a great place to do
   business.

   the business permitting process, many of the State's e-commerce
   companies might well be based and growing elsewhere.

   These changes have been good for business, just as they have been good
   for the people of California. They recognized that when government
   focuses on business creation and growth, that yields new and
   higher-paying jobs, which in turn yields personal wealth creation,
   which inevitably yields increased government revenues. California's
   official approach to the Internet has taken the same line. This stands
   in contrast to the mistakes of some other states which have tried to
   increase revenues by levying discriminatory taxes on the Internet; most
   are learning the error of their ways in a era when it is increasingly
   easy for businesses to relocate.

   Beyond the overall economic benefits of a robust e-commerce industry in
   California, e-commerce provides a platform for increased consumer
   convenience, as well as lower prices that follow a substantial increase
   in competition. E-commerce can reduce the strain on our highways and
   the drivers using them, since on-line shopping can help reduce
   automobile trips. And, as government incorporates e-commerce into its
   daily operations, consumers will benefit from more convenient access to
   public information and services.

   Another opportunity for traffic reduction flows from the fact that the
   same telecommunications infrastructure and Internet technologies that
   are being deployed for e-commerce can support telecommuting and
   teleservice centers. These assets can also help bring education and
   worker training directly into businesses and homes, making it
   convenient for people to pursue lifelong learning - and, in some
   instances, it is the only way to make it possible. In sum, each of
   these developments can help reduce the "administrative overhead" in
   people's day-to-day lives.

   With all this in mind, it is not surprising that in a number of ways
   California has stepped up early and done the right thing for matters of
   particular importance to e-commerce:


     It is not surprising that, in a number of ways, California has stepped
     up early and done the right thing for matters of particular importance
                                                             to e-commerce.

     California's Internet Tax Freedom Act (ITFA) establishes a three-year
   moratorium on targeted Internet taxes within the State.^1 This follows
   the Governor's effort on behalf of the recently enacted federal ITFA,
   which he undertook against the tide within the National Governors
   Association. Taking the same approach, the State's tax agencies are not
   seeking to aggressively assert sales or income tax jurisdiction merely
   on the basis of a company's "electronic presence" on a server in
   California.^2

     California has adopted an open-standards regulation on digital
   signatures that will now enable state agencies to accept forms
   electronically.^3 Once implemented, this initiative will help reduce
   costs and speed processing for businesses and government. Also, by
   setting an example, state agencies will promote secure electronic
   contracting between businesses.

     A number of years ago, California made confidential the registration
   records maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles, while more
   recently the State eliminated general public access to voter
   registration records. These are two of the specific privacy laws that
   supplement the general "Information Practices Act of 1977"^4 that
   governs state agencies' handling of personal data. While these changes
   were made to address general concerns about the privacy of data
   collected by government - and to further the right to privacy
   established in Article 1 of the State's Constitution - the fact that
   they are already in place means that California does not have to play
   "catch-up" as the public expresses increasing concerns about access to
   personal information over the Internet.

     A new state law will require all state websites that collect personal
   data to post privacy notices.^5 While the privacy practices of
   government agencies in California are regulated by law, the posting of
   privacy notices will reassure the public that their privacy is being
   protected. This new practice by government will also set an example for
   businesses, while it contributes to the broader public education
   campaign about on-line privacy protection.

     As e-commerce develops, unsolicited commercial e-mail - so-called
   "spam" - is proliferating just as quickly. Because consumers currently
   have no control over spam landing in their mailboxes, they are
   discouraged from registering at commercial websites, using Internet
   discussion groups which often provide technical support for computer
   products, and even shopping on-line, for fear that to do so will
   unavoidably increase the spam headed their way. In order to disguise
   its electronic origins, much of the junk e-mail also makes unauthorized
   use of mail servers operated by companies that provide e-mail services,
   thereby burdening and sometimes disabling their operations. Recently
   passed enacted legislation in California bans the unauthorized use of
   mail servers^6 and requires spam to be labeled as an advertisement and
   to carry an accurate return address, thereby making it easy for a
   consumer to block it.^7

     In order to protect consumers, California has extended its general
   laws against false and misleading advertising to the Internet. Also,
   the law that requires goods ordered by phone or by mail to be shipped
   promptly now applies to goods bought on the Internet.^8


   California's attractiveness to business is undeniable, but it can be
   easily trumped by high taxes, needless regulatory costs, and slothful
   government.

     The Internet provides an important new means for delivering health
   care to rural areas of California. The California Medical Board, which
   regulates the practice of medicine in the State, has held that
   out-of-state doctors may provide telemedicine consultations to doctors
   licensed to practice here; some states prohibit such consultations. In
   1997, state law was amended to explicitly exclude doctor-patient e-mail
   from the definition of "telemedicine".^9 And, earlier this year,
   legislation was enacted allowing eyeglass prescriptions to be extended
   by e-mail.^10 So, while out-of-state doctors may help California
   doctors via the Internet, and they may even follow-up with their
   patients via e-mail, out-of-state doctors may not provide assistance to
   other health care professionals, and - for better or worse - may not
   provide medical services directly to patients.

     Last year, legislation was enacted allowing state agencies to
   substitute, as appropriate, e-mail delivery anytime state law otherwise
   requires that something be sent by the US Postal Service.

     In 1995, California inaugurated its Internet homepage,^11 which
   provided a gateway to the handful of state agencies that had started
   offering information via the Internet. The homepage was well
   received,^12 and over the past three years an extensive list of
   agencies have become engaged. The breadth of information and the
   quality of its presentation on the Internet has increased greatly, and
   it is clear that California's citizens and others throughout the world
   are surfing to and around the State's Internet domain.

   The public can access information on building contractors to confirm
   that they are licensed^13 or download tax forms,^14 while those who may
   be intimidated by search engines can read through a topical index
   developed by the State Librarian to help them locate information
   without having to know in advance what agency is in charge.^15 People
   can also visit the website run by California's Division of Tourism,
   which is one of the Internet's most popular sites.^16

   New and expanding businesses trying to work their way through the maze
   of the government permitting process can find help by visiting a
   website recently roll-out by California's Environmental Protection
   Agency, the state agency responsible for business permit streamlining.
   The CalGOLD site^17 allows a user to enter information about the
   business she would like to open and where in the State it will be, and
   the system responds with a list of state and local agencies from which
   permits must be obtained. Addresses and telephone numbers are provided
   for these agencies, as well as links to those maintaining Internet
   websites, and selected forms that can be downloaded.


      The same telecommunications infrastructure and Internet technologies
       that are being deployed for e-commerce can help bring education and
             worker training directly into businesses and homes, making it
          convenient for people to pursue lifelong learning - and, in some
                        instances, it is the only way to make it possible.

     While not specifically dealing with e-commerce, in January of this
   year California's Supreme Court did issue an opinion of potential
   significance to anyone interested in providing professional services
   via the Internet. State law provides, "No person shall practice law in
   California unless the person is an active member of the State Bar."^18
   In Birbrower v. Superior Court,^19 the court observed that this law
   "has generated numerous opinions on the meaning of 'practice law' but
   none on the meaning of 'in California.'" The case involved New
   York-based attorneys who traveled to California on several occasions to
   work with their California-based client regarding possible litigation,
   as well as to interview potential arbitrators, though much of the work
   for the client was performed in New York. The court held that the
   attorneys had violated California law, yet it also included the
   following statement in its opinion: "[W]e do reject the notion that a
   person automatically practices law 'in California' whenever that person
   practices California law anywhere, or 'virtually' enters the state by
   telephone, fax, e-mail, or satellite."

   Whether in law, medicine, or other professional services whose in-state
   practitioners are licensed by the State, the broad question raised by
   the capabilities of the Internet is: Can consumers be allowed direct
   access to professionals who are not state-licensed and yet be
   appropriately protected? The Council recognizes the complexity of this
   issue, so we are not making a recommendation that the professional
   services market be opened to all comers. Nevertheless, as a practical
   matter, it is clear to us that the provision of services to
   Californians by out-of-state professionals will inexorably increase
   along with other Internet-based commercial activities, so it is
   incumbent upon state regulatory bodies to tackle this challenge sooner
   rather than later.

   Beyond the regulatory, tax, and consumer protection areas, there is
   still more to do to make the laws of California as open to e-commerce
   as they are to the various forms of commerce that preceded it. For
   example, though the State now has in place regulations approving the
   use of digital signatures, individual agencies still must establish
   procedures for accepting submissions electronically. These agencies -
   or select ones on behalf of others - must establish a system for
   issuing and managing digital certificates for use by state officials.
   These follow-through steps are essential before the state will be able
   to broadly engage in Internet e-commerce that entails transactions.

   As has been pointed out by numerous other groups, in both the public
   and private sectors, California's education policy is fundamental to
   the ongoing strength of the State's high-tech industries, because
   high-tech companies need workers with high-tech skills. Certainly, this
   is true for e-commerce businesses.

   High-tech skills are not just an issue for our colleges and
   universities. Indeed, the success of our elementary, middle, and high
   schools - that is, all schools, in all communities throughout
   California - is also ultimately essential to meeting the workforce
   needs of e-commerce companies. To this end, the "Digital High School"
   initiative is bringing computers, software, and Internet access, as
   well as teachers trained to use them, to all 1.6 million high school
   students in California. Programs have been underway to wire all schools
   for Internet access and provide access for all students to new and
   refurbished computers. And, taking the step that is most important,
   schools are working to integrate computer technology into the students'
   daily curricula. After all, while proficiency with Internet tools,
   applications, and services is critical for the people we are looking to
   hire today, it is not unlikely that, when today's elementary school
   students graduate college, the Internet, as such, may not exist. So,
   Internet skills per se are not the goal.

   The Council cannot overstate its support for a continuation of these
   policies that are providing increased resources for technology-based
   and technology-focused education.

                               Recommendations

     1 - The Council recommends that California continue its realistic
   approach to regulating on-line business.

   During this period of rapid change, such a realistic approach means
   several things. First, it means that regulatory agencies should
   continue to refrain from subjecting online businesses to such
   regulatory requirements as make no sense in light of the intangible
   nature of electronic commerce.


   Can consumers be allowed direct access to professionals who are not
   state-licensed and yet be appropriately protected? It is clear to us
   that the provision of services to Californians by out-of-state
   professionals will inexorably increase, so it is incumbent upon state
   regulatory bodies to tackle this challenge sooner rather than later.

   Second, it means regulatory agencies should work with on-line
   industries and interested consumers to find more realistic means, which
   may be temporary pending the completion of the regulatory review
   described above, of protecting the interests of the online consuming
   public without unduly impeding the further development of the online
   businesses.

   Third, this realistic approach means, to the extent new laws and
   regulations are promulgated, making sure that they are broad enough to
   cover changing circumstances. In other words, such laws and regulations
   should serve more to validate and enable the new technological and
   business advances than to prescribe specific ways in which such
   advances are to be carried out. The goal of any such laws and
   regulations should be to create a predictable legal environment for all
   participants in electronic commerce - without bias for or against
   specific technologies or channels of commerce.

   One example of beneficial regulatory flexibility involves a very early
   form of consumer electronic commerce: ATMs (automated teller machine
   networks). When ATM technology was being deployed in the 1970s, the
   Office of the Controller of the Currency (OCC) could have held each
   machine to constitute a "branch bank."^20 This would have been a major
   setback, since each state has its own branch banking law, and a number
   of states severely limited, or even prohibited, branching at that time.
   Or, the OCC could have erected an almost equally immovable roadblock by
   beginning an elaborate administrative review. Instead, making use of
   the discretion granted by the federal banking regulatory framework -
   which is intended to focus on safety and soundness, not technology -
   the OCC ruled that an ATM did not constitute a branch, thereby allowing
   nationwide deployment.^21


            Government's deployment of transaction-capable e-commerce offers
        particularly great promise to small businesses. Today, there is time
        spent traveling to and from government permit offices, waiting while
     there, and filling out, mailing, and keeping track of paper forms. Time
           demands can be punishing, especially when a small business' chief
      income generator is the one sitting in a government office waiting for
       her number to be called. Government's effective use of e-commerce can
                                                                       help.

   Finally, a realistic approach to any regulation of on-line businesses
   must be based on an understanding of the interplay between political
   borders, that separate states and countries, and the borderless
   Internet. California should exercise leadership in recognizing that its
   laws and regulations relating to e-commerce must, at a minimum, take
   cognizance of conflicting laws and regulations in other states;
   preferably, our state officials will seek consistency and reciprocity
   with other states. Additionally, while California should not sit idly,
   waiting for unifying federal regulations whose arrival may be some time
   off, it should anticipate them - and therefore avoid imposing
   regulations likely to be at great variance to federal rules. Otherwise,
   businesses will face being whipsawed. An example of the correct
   approach: Recent state legislation regulating unsolicited bulk e-mail -
   spam - which contains an explicit self-destruct provision triggered by
   federal legislation.^22

     2 - We recommend that government officials in California commence an
   industry-specific and agency-specific review of existing regulations to
   ensure that they do not discriminate against Internet-based businesses.

   This review should be carried out through a dialogue between the
   regulators and the regulated - with full access and opportunities for
   input provided to interested consumers - and its purpose should be to
   determine which regulations, or which parts of certain regulations, are
   no longer meaningful when applied to the online conduct of the business
   affected. In some cases, this review will be simple: For example, a
   regulation requiring an auctioneer to post a sign of a certain size at
   the location of the auction clearly cannot be applied to an online
   auction. In other cases, the review will be more difficult to carry
   out: For example, should an online insurance broker be exempt from the
   requirement to have a physical agent within the state? Answering this
   question will require an analysis of how online brokerage operations
   differ from more traditional brokerage operations, and whether the
   public interests intended to be protected by the requirement of an
   in-state agent still need to be protected in the online context - or,
   alternatively, whether they can be protected in a less costly manner,
   recognizing that one of the reasons electronic commerce has grown so
   quickly is that it is much more cost efficient that traditional
   business.

   From our survey of selected State agencies, they are all aware of the
   regulatory and enforcement challenges presented by burgeoning
   e-commerce. Officials understand that they are losing their historic
   ability to directly regulate businesses that are serving Californians,
   as well as their ability to sanction those who act improperly. Not
   surprisingly, businesses are proceeding in any event. For example,
   businesses conducting on-line auctions are not meeting the legal
   requirement to post an 18 inch by 24 inch sign at the entrance to the
   auction. Why not? Because it's impossible.

   The Council does not anticipate that a review of existing laws and
   regulations will require extensive resources, because it appears that
   relatively few existing state laws impinge on e-commerce - based on
   anecdotal evidence - beyond the State's regulation of professionals.
   Nevertheless, regulations that cannot reasonably be applied in the
   online context - or, upon reconsideration, should not be applied, at
   least in their current form - will need to be eliminated or amended for
   the mutual good of Californians who are buying and selling goods and
   services on the Internet.

     3 - We recommend that government agencies in California expand their
   use of the Internet to provide information to the public, and that they
   devise and deploy applications that allow individuals and businesses to
   submit documents and receive responses via the Internet - with
   appropriate attention to privacy and security concerns.^23


   Beyond the overall economic benefits of a robust e-commerce industry in
   California, e-commerce provides a platform for increased consumer
   convenience, as well as lower prices that follow a substantial increase
   in competition.

   With but few small-scale exceptions, what state sites do not currently
   provide is direct interactivity - such as forms that may be filled out
   and submitted electronically - and this is where the greatest challenge
   lies. A combination of technology and privacy concerns led to the
   removal of the State's first on-line application that allowed people to
   notify the Department of Motor Vehicles of a change in address. Another
   impediment is the shear size of some of the state agencies that are
   good candidates for using interactive e-commerce, as well as
   bureaucratic hurdles. Yet, it is those very agencies that may offer the
   greatest opportunities for economies of scale - providing efficient
   operations which would save money both for taxpayers and those
   Californians interacting with the agencies.

   Fortunately, one roadblock in the way of transactional e-commerce has
   been removed - as mentioned, regulations recently became final that
   define digital signatures and allow state agencies to accept
   digitally-signed documents. This has been a problem because an
   individual's intent to submit documents to a government agency can only
   be authoritatively shown by a signature. This differs from a typical
   consumer sales transaction on the Internet, since payment by credit
   card and delivery of the goods provide evidence of a legal agreement
   between the seller and buyer.

   Now that the regulations are final, state agencies need to design and
   roll-out systems that allow people to actually file documents over the
   Internet. Even so, before the State can begin accepting such
   submissions in substantial numbers, the marketplace will have to
   develop broadly for digital certificates issued by so-called "trusted
   third parties" - entities that issue certificates after obtaining from
   a person some proof that he is who he claims to be. Such a system is
   essential not only for allowing the State to accept submissions, but
   also for communicating back with the submitter with some assurance that
   the communication will not be misdirected or intercepted.

   It should be emphasized that government's deployment of
   transaction-capable e-commerce offers particularly great promise to
   small businesses - for whom the proverbial "government red tape" is
   more than an annoyance. Irrespective of the justification for various
   business permits, administrative overhead driven by government mandates
   can be punishing. There is time spent traveling to and from government
   permit offices, waiting while there, and filling out, mailing, and
   keeping track of paper forms. Each of these burdens is shared by larger
   businesses (and they will benefit as well), but larger businesses have
   certain economies of scale. For a small business - whose chief income
   generator may be the same person sitting in a government office waiting
   for her number to be called - the current burden can prove fatal.
   Government's effective use of e-commerce can help.

     4 - We recommend that California continue to fund programs
   aggressively that expand the integrated use of, and access to,
   information technology throughout California's education system.

   As made clear by numerous expert study commissions, education is a
   building block of a sound economy, and this is especially true for
   high-tech businesses. While the Council did not undertake a study of
   this topic, we still want to make clear our support for California's
   ongoing investment in education.

     5 - We recommend that all California government websites be rated for
   content under existing and developing rating standards so that
   children, whose websurfing is being protected by filtering software,
   will have appropriate access to government resources.

   Many parents encourage their children to learn about and from the
   Internet, while some children need no encouragement at all. Yet,
   parents know that some material that is accessible on-line is
   inappropriate for children, so most monitor what their children do
   on-line and an increasing number are using software tools to limit
   access. Some of software products look for "suspect" words in web pages
   before displaying them, while others depend on invisible content
   ratings.

   Two rating systems are offered by the Recreational Software Advisory
   Council (RSACi)^24 and SafeSurf^25, both of which rely on self-ratings
   by website operators. Web browsers can be set to allow access only to
   websites that have been rated according to a parent's standards. For
   example, for RSACi, parents establish settings on a sliding scale for
   language, nudity, sex, and violence. An overall browser setting can
   prevent access to unrated websites. This is why we are making our
   recommendation that government websites in California to be rated.
   Otherwise, parents will not be able to use content filters in web
   browsers to protect their children without also blocking access to
   public websites.

   Whether looking for general information about state programs^26,
   researching the State's history^27, or just collecting scenes of
   California's great outdoors to plan an upcoming family vacation,^28
   boys and girls should have Internet access to their government.

   This being said, there is likely information available on one or more
   state websites that is not be appropriate for children. Therefore,
   government website managers must carefully administer the rating
   program.

     6 - We recommend that state regulatory bodies consider if a
   combination of interstate agreements and home-state licensing and
   discipline of professionals could effectively replace the current model
   in which each state requires licensing and performs its own
   enforcement.

   With or without permission from state regulators, professionals
   licensed in other states - such as attorneys and accountants - will
   make increasing use of the Internet to solicit business from, and
   perform services for, Californians. At present, because of resource
   constraints that likely will always exist, California regulators have
   no practical ability to intervene in a case involving an out-of-state
   provider, and the providers' home states have no established interest
   in protecting Californians.^29 If there is a need for the State to
   regulate certain professions, then the regulatory system should be
   effective. Unchanged, the current system will become increasingly less
   effective as e-commerce grows.

   For example, in place of requiring professionals licensed out-of-state
   to be licensed in California in order to practice here, regulatory
   agencies could seek interstate agreements based on "substantial
   equivalency" - that is, reciprocity agreements with other states that
   have similar professional licensing standards and that agree to take
   enforcement actions against bad actors who harm Californians. Under
   such a "mutual aid agreement," California would agree to do the same
   for the other state's consumers. While states could devise and
   implement identical "model" licensing statutes, a "substantial
   equivalency" approach could prove effective.

   The Council does not suggest that crafting this approach would be easy.
   However, we reiterate that the Internet and other new technologies will
   bring out-of-state professionals "to" California. The question for
   California's regulators is how can they best promote consumers'
   interests in this changing environment.
   ____________________________

   ^© Thiebaud 1993. The Arts License Plate Logo is copyrighted by Wayne
   Thiebaud, noted California artist, and licensed to the California Arts
   Council. See http://www.ca.gov/s/artslic.html
   ^1 The California Internet Tax Freedom Act was signed by Governor
   Wilson on August 24, 1998. Section 2 of the legislation amends the
   Revenue and Taxation Code to provide, in part:
   "65004.(a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), no city, county, or
   city and county may impose, assess, or attempt to collect any of the
   following:
   "(1) A tax on Internet access, Online Computer Services, or the use of
   Internet access or any Online Computer Services.
   "(2) A bit tax or bandwidth tax.
   "(3) Any discriminatory tax on Online Computer Services or Internet
   access.
   "(b) The prohibition in subdivision (a) against the imposition of taxes
   shall not apply to any new or existing tax of general application,
   including but not limited to any sales and use tax, business license
   tax, or utility user tax that is imposed or assessed in a uniform and
   nondiscriminatory manner without regard to whether the activities or
   transactions taxed are conducted through the use of the Internet,
   Internet access, or Online Computer Services."
   [http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1601-1650/ab_1614_bill_98082
   4_chaptered.html]
   ^2 See "Read My E-Mail: No New Taxes," by Dean F. Andal, California
   State Board of Equalization, May 5, 1997. This paper was presented at
   the Symposium on Multijurisdictional Taxation of Electronic Commerce,
   sponsored by the International Tax Program and The Society for Law and
   Tax Policy, Harvard School of Law, Cambridge, MA, held on April 5,
   1997. It was also reprinted in State Tax Notes Magazine, May 5, 1997 (1
   State Tax Notes 1387)]
   ^3 California Government Code, Section 16.5,
   http://www.ss.ca.gov/digsig/code165.htm; California Digital Signature
   Regulations, Final Text Approved By Office of Administrative Law on
   June 12, 1998, http://www.ss.ca.gov/digsig/regulations.htm.
   As an amendment to the Internet Tax Freedom Act (S. 442), which, in
   turn, became law as part of the omnibus appropriations bill passed by
   Congress just before recessing for the year, Congress passed the
   "Government Paperwork Elimination Act" (Title III of S. 442). As with
   California's law, the new federal law is intended to promote
   transactional e-commerce between government agencies and the public
   (both businesses and individuals) by authorizing the use of digital
   signatures.
   ^4 California Civil Code section 1798 et seq.
   ^5 SB 1386 (Leslie) was signed by Governor Wilson on September 11,
   1998. California Government Code, section 11015.5, Chapter 429 (SB
   1386)
   ^6 AB 1629,
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1601-1650/ab_1629_bill_980928
   _chaptered.html
   ^7 AB 1676,
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1651-1700/ab_1676_bill_980928
   _chaptered.html
   ^8 California Business and Professions Code, section 17538 (1996)
   ^9 California Business and Professions Code, section 2290.5
   ^10 California Business and Professions Code, section 2541.1
   ^11 http://www.ca.gov. The California Homepage was an initiative of the
   Governor's Council on Information Technology, which issued a series of
   recommendations in its 1995 report, "Getting Results", as to how the
   State can make effective use of technology.
   ^12 "Taking In the Sites; Way Out West With the Best State Web Site",
   New York Times, by Walter R. Baranger, August 21, 1995
   ^13 http://www.cslb.ca.gov/
   ^14 http://www.ftb.ca.gov/geninfo/ind/forms.asp
   ^15 http://www.ca.gov/s/search/topc3a-z.html
   ^16 http://www.gocalif.ca.gov
   ^17 http://www.calgold.ca.gov/
   ^18 Business & Professional Code, section 6125
   ^19 17 Cal.4th 119, 70 Cal.Rptr.2d 304 (1998). See Estate of Condon 55
   Cal. App. 4th 1456, 64 Cal.Rptr.2d 789 (1997), vacated and remanded for
   reconsideration in light of Birbrower, 76 Cal. Rptr. 2d 176 (April
   1998).
   ^20 Ruling that an ATM is a bank branch may seem absurd today. At that
   time, however, the only other place someone could do his banking was at
   a branch. A linear-thinking approach would have held ATMs to be simply
   "electronic branches. The OCC saw the opportunities presented by
   "shared ATMs" (i.e. networks), and ruled otherwise.
   ^21 See "The Future of Shared Automatic Teller Networks in the Wake of
   Marine Midland Bank: A Call for Federal Legislation," by Cynthia Young
   Reisz, 38 Vand. L. Rev. 1621 (November 1985)
   ^22 AB 1676,
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1651-1700/ab_1676_bill_980928
   _chaptered.html
   ^23 This report does not include a discussion of or recommendations
   regarding the State's use of e-commerce for procuring goods and
   services. Clearly, there are abundant examples in the private sector of
   opportunities presented by e-commerce technology, wisely applied, to
   save time and money in the procurement process. However, as noted at
   the outset of this report, the Council did not undertake a
   comprehensive review of e-commerce issues affecting the state, and one
   of the issues not covered was procurement. Therefore, while we are not
   prepared to issue any specific findings or suggestions regarding
   procurement, we do urge state agencies to intelligently pursue the
   opportunities that do exist.
   ^24 http://www.rsac.org
   ^25 http://www.safesurf.com
   ^26 http://www.ca.gov
   ^27 http://www.ca.gov/s/history/
   ^28 http://ceres.ca.gov/ceres/calweb/great_outdoors.html
   ^29 Today, for example, if a California consumer is harmed by a
   professional who is based in Arizona but who is licensed in California,
   the consumer's has leverage that is derived from the fact that the
   professional can be disciplined in California. However, if the
   professional is willing to give up his practice in California, the
   consumer's attempt to achieve satisfaction may hit a dead end. On the
   other hand, if Arizona had agreed to discipline its professionals who
   harm Californians, then the Arizonan is likely to seek an agreement
   with the consumer. The other side of the bargain we are proposing is
   that - assuming, for this discussion, that Arizona's laws regulating
   this profession are "comparable" to California's - a professional
   licensed in Arizona would be able to practice in California without
   being licensed here. Nevertheless, if California's regulators were
   convinced that Arizona's regulators were willing and able to discipline
   their own, then the bargain could make sense. Furthermore, this system
   would not necessarily prevent California from revoking, for cause, an
   individual's right to do business here.
