http://www.cya.ca.gov/news/news101101.pdf

   California Youth Authority and California Department of Corrections
   Joint News Release Working Together on a National Call to Duty
   MoreAbout the CYA at WWW.CYA.CA.GOV Immediate Release Contacts: George
   Kostyrko -- CYA, Assistant Director (916) 262-1479 October 11, 2001
   YA/CDC 01-1 Staff, Inmates and Wards Help With Disaster Relief
   Statewide (Sacramento)  Ever since the attacks in New York and
   Washington, D.C. on September 11th, there has been an outpouring of
   generosity by Americans to the relief efforts. The staff, inmates and
   wards of the California Department of Corrections and the California
   Youth Authority are no exception. "Inmates in California's prisons have
   pledged well over $50,000," said Edward S. Alameida, Jr., Director of
   the California Department of Corrections. "And that amount will
   probably go higher. Fundraising is still underway at several of our
   institutions, and we don't have final totals yet." Donations have
   ranged from the $15,000 raised by a candy and portrait sale by inmates
   at the Central California Women's Facility in Chowchilla to $4.69 from
   an inmate at Wasco State Prison. "The warden asked why that amount,"
   said John Katavich, a spokesman for Wasco. "We looked at his account,
   and that's all he had." Money isn't the only thing inmates are
   donating. At the California Institution for Women in Frontera, inmates
   made 41 quilts that will be donated to families in New York and
   Washington. Inmates in the upholstery shop at Chuckawalla Valley State
   Prison in Blythe used scrap material to make booties for the search and
   rescue dogs in New York. Wards and staff at the California Youth
   Authority have done their part, too. " The Youth Authority family of
   employees, as well as the youthful offenders we supervise, have raised
   more than $35,000  and the donations, fundraising sales and volunteer
   hours continue to grow," said Jerry L. Harper, Director of the
   California Youth Authority (CYA). " It is gratifying to see the sense
   of community spirit exhibited by employees and youthful offenders alike
   in the face of this tragic event." (more) CYA/CDC Press Release Page
   2-2 Within the CYA, a majority of the $35,500 raised has been initiated
   by youthful offenders (wards and parolees) through restorative justice
   activities who have donated money from their trust funds, performed
   various fundraisers, such as car washes, as well as selling coffee mugs
   with flags on them, and charging for events such as movies and special
   meals within the institutions. CYA staff, as well as staff from the
   California Department of Forestry, have made generous donations to
   these specific fundraising efforts, and as well as to a trust fund at
   the Golden One Credit Union that has raised more than $337,000
   statewide from all state employees. Staff at the Department of
   Corrections and the California Youth Authority are aggressively raising
   money for relief efforts in other ways as well. In addition to
   individual donations, staff at the California Correctional Center and
   at High Desert State Prison participated with local law enforcement in
   a spaghetti feed that raised more than $10,000. Many institutions are
   have participated in or are planning other fundraising events. A
   hastily organized, two-day bake sale and fundraiser by workers at the
   California Department of Corrections headquarters in Sacramento netted
   $3,700. So far, staff at the California Department of Corrections have
   raised well over $50,000. That does not include some donations that
   employees have made through their individual credit unions or directly
   to relief organizations. For more information on the donations and
   activities at each institution, camp, and parole office, please visit
   the California Department of Corrections homepage at
   www.cdc.state.ca.us, and the California Youth Authority home page at
   www.cya.ca.gov. Facts sheet are available on the websites, or by
   calling the media contacts at the top of this media release. -30-
