http://nasadaacs.eos.nasa.gov/edulinks.html

   DAACs Education
         Feature Product Educational Links
   Educational Links

   [spacer.gif] Whether you prefer CD-ROM or just browsing the Web, the
   NASA DAACs provide educational materials for elementary school through
   college levels. CD-ROMs can be ordered through the User Services Office
   of the issuing DAAC.
   Web Sites
   art element
   Terra Terra: The EOS Flagship
   Terra (formerly EOS AM-1) is the flagship of the Earth Observing
   System, a series of spacecraft that represent the next landmark steps
   in NASA's leadership role to observe the Earth from the unique vantage
   point of space. Focused on key measurements identified by a consensus
   of U.S. and international scientists, Terra will enable new research
   into the ways that Earth's lands, oceans, air, ice, and life function
   as a total environmental system.
   Image courtesy of NASA's Terra Web Site
   art element
   Mt. Redoubt, Southern Alaska ASF ERS-1 SAR Image Sampler
   Featuring a wide selection of synthetic aperture images, this is
   suitable for junior high school use.
   Image courtesy of Alaska SAR Facility
   art element
   art element
   Fish Physical Oceanography from Space
   Designed especially for kids, this web site describes what physical
   oceanography is and how satellites can be used to measure the ocean. It
   also provides oceanography history and news.
   Image courtesy of Jet Propulsion Laboratory
   art element
   TOPEX/Poseidon Perspectives on an Ocean Planet
   This site includes information on the TOPEX/Poseidon mission, including
   background, spacecraft, how the measurement system works, and what
   we've learned. Suitable for middle school through college.
   Image courtesy of Jet Propulsion Laboratory
   art element
   art element
   Other Media
   art element
   Interactive Online Activity: CERES S'COOL Project
   A program to enable classroom students to assist NASA scientists with
   ground truthing for the Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System
   (CERES) experiment. The project supports NASA research on Earth's
   climate and employs science, math, and geography curriculums as
   students observe, compute, and locate vital information through ground
   truth observations. Suitable for students in grades 4 through 12.
   To order: larc@eos.nasa.gov

   Trading Cards: Radiation Budget and Atmospheric Aerosols
   Each set contains six cards: introduction, mission, science,
   instrument, satellite, and data. The cards help students understand how
   the atmosphere affects Earth's climate. Lesson plans and student
   activities are included to supplement the contents of the trading cards
   with multidisciplinary curriculums. Additional sets of trading cards
   are in the planning stages. The cards are appropriate for grades 5
   through 8.
   To order: larc@eos.nasa.gov

   Video: Visualization of ERBE Data
   An overview of the Earth Radiation Budget Experiment (ERBE) with an
   explanation of how scanner and non-scanner satellite instruments work.
   It is suitable for students in middle school through college.
   To order: larc@eos.nasa.gov

   CD-ROM: Northern Hemisphere EASE-Grid Weekly Snow Cover and Sea Ice
   Extent
   A data set derived from satellite observations and designed to
   facilitate the study of the Northern Hemisphere's seasonal fluctuations
   of snow cover and sea ice extent. It includes monthly climatologies
   describing average extent, probability of occurrence, and variance.
   This CD-ROM requires familiarity with basic image display. Although not
   considered an educational product, it has been used in high school and
   undergraduate studies.
   To order: nsidc@nsidc.org

   Interactive Online Activity: Environmental Treaties and Resource
   Indicators (ENTRI)
   An online query of a relational database of international environmental
   treaties, treaty status files, and environmental resource indicators
   (World Resources 1996-97). It is useful for environment, natural
   resources, political science, law, and current or world events courses,
   and is appropriate for grade 9 and older.
   To access: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri

   Sources:
   Informational Products for Educational Use Available from the EOSDIS
   DAACs and Other Cooperating Data Centers Newsletter - February 1999
   NASA's Terra Web Site
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory


   art element
   NASA DAACs Home
   Contact Us
   NASA
