http://www.education.nasa.gov/students4.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   NASA Television Resources for Students
     * NASA Television - is a resource designed to provide real-time
       coverage of Agency activities and missions as well as providing
       resource video to the news media, and educational programming to
       teachers, students and the general public.
     * NASA Television on the Internet - Several organizations inside and
       outside NASA transmit NASA Television to the World Wide Web.
     * NASA Education File - check out the educational programming
       available on NASA TV. NASA's Education File segment is broadcast
       weekdays at 2-3 p.m. (Eastern Standard or Daylight Time), with
       replays at 5-6 p.m., 8-9 p.m., 11 p.m.-12 a.m., and 2-3 a.m. the
       next morning.
     * NASA CONNECT - is a series of 30-minute instructional programs that
       are free, interactive, closed-captioned, and standards-based. Each
       program is accompanied by a lesson guide, a classroom activity, and
       a web-based component and uses NASA projects, facilities, and
       researchers to integrate and enhance the teaching of mathematics,
       science, geography, and technology in grades 5-8. Programs air on
       PBS, can be down linked from satellite, are available from NASA
       ERC's, and can be purchased from NASA CORE. Visit the NASA CONNECT
       website to obtain satellite coordinates and to find out when the
       programs air in your locality.
     * The NASA "Why?" Files Series - NASA is a standards-based,
       technology focused, closed-captioned, distance learning initiative
       designed to integrate and enhance the teaching of math, science,
       geography, and technology in grades 3-5. The four, 60 minute
       programs in the series use scientific inquiry, including the
       scientific method and science processing skills, problem-based
       learning, and NASA to introduce students to the excitement and
       exploration of real-world mathematics, science, geography, and
       technology. Programs air on PBS, can be down linked from satellite,
       are available from NASA ERC's, and can be purchased from NASA CORE.
       Visit the NASA "Why?" Files web site to obtain the satellite
       coordinates and to find out when the programs air in your locality.

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
        NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Center Education Web Sites
