http://weaknt2.lbl.gov/abixler/davll.html

                            Laser Frequency Locking

Modifying the DAVLL System to Lock Laser Frequency to a Sodium Transition

   Tunable lasers are essential to many applications in atomic and nuclear
   physics, notably atom trapping. However in order to use tunable lasers
   for atom trapping is necessay to lock the laser frequency very
   precisely to an atomic transition. A widely used method for frequency
   locking to an atomic transition is saturated absorbtion spectroscopy,
   but this method has certain limitations. Namely the lock has a tendency
   to drift and lock to noise, and the system is limited by a small
   recapture range. In an effort to improve on this method of laser
   locking, the Dichroic-Atomic-Vapor Laser Lock (DAVLL) system was
   developed to lock to an atomic transition in rubidium[1]. Refinements
   to this method have recently been made[2], and as described here, an
   attempt is now being made to adapt the original DAVLL system to work
   with sodium.

  Introduction

   The concept behind the DAVLL system can be illustrated by examining the
   transition from the F=1 ground state to the F=0 excited state as shown
   below. Light generated by the laser is lineraly polarized, which is
   equivalent to equal amounts of left and right circularly polarized ((+)
   and (-)helicity) light. In the absence of an external magnetic field
   all the mf atomic sublevels are degenerate so absorption of helicity=+
   and helicity=- light (corresponding to delta-mf=+1, delta-mf=-1
   respectively) occur at the same frequency. In the presence of an
   external magnetic field, however, the mf sublevels are split in energy.
   The transitions corresponding to absorption of + and - light occur at
   the central frequency plus and minus the zeeman spliting of the mf
   sublevels, respectively. In practice the transitions do not occur at a
   single, precise frequency; rather the absorption occurs over a range of
   frequencies. At the conditions applicable to this experiment, the
   transition strength as a function of frequency is predominently
   gaussian, centered at the energy described above. This gaussian profile
   is the basis of the DAVLL signal. The signal is generated by passing
   the laser thru a heated absorbtion cell. The + and - light are then
   separated into two diferent beams using a quarter wave plate and a
   polarizing beam splitter, and the intensity of each beam is measured
   with a photodiode. When this is done we can see the intensity of the +
   and - light separately. The intensity of each beam is compared using a
   differential amplifier which subtracts the two photodiode signals. The
   resulting signal is the DAVLL signal, which is amplified and fed back
   into the laser. The absorbtion of the + and - light and the final DAVLL
   signal is shown in the attatched figure from [1], which also shows a
   schematic of the physical setup. Note that the signal crosses zero
   exactly at the central frequency of the F=1 to F=0 transition.

   In practice the final signal is not so simple. The F=1 to F=0
   transition is not seen in isolation; the other hyperfine transitions
   also occur, and their profiles are more complicated due to the multiple
   ground and excited state values of mf. While the intensity profile is
   symetric about a given frequency for each hyperfine transition, that
   frequency is different for each transition. Therefore the zero crossing
   of the total signal does not occur at an obvious place. But all is not
   lost. Provided an external refrence such as a saturated absorbtion
   spectra, minor adjustments in the optics can be made to introduce an
   offset which effectively moves the zero point to a convienient place.

  Modifying DAVLL for Sodium

   Two problems present themselves when adapting the DAVLL system to
   sodium. First soduim has a much lower vapor pressure than rubidium.
   Hence while a spectrum of rubidium can be taken at room temperature,
   sodium must be heated to 85 C. Second, because sodium is ligher than
   rubidium and because of the higher temperature required to obtain a
   spectrum, sodium displays a much larger doppler line width than
   rubidium. The end result of the larger doppler width is poorer
   resolution of the signal.

   The situation arising from the increased doppler width could be
   improved by a stronger magnetic field, but there are few permanent
   magnets commercailly available that are large enough and strong enough
   to provide the high magnetic fields nessecary. The current setup uses
   the magnets recomended in [1]. This setup is not ideal, but it is the
   best arangement found yet and it seems to be sufficient.

   A more serious problem is presented by the need for heating. The Curie
   temperature of the magnets is 95 C, very close to the running
   temperature of the sodium cell. In order to prevent damage to the
   magnets, both thermal insulation of the absorption cell and some form
   of cooling for the magnets is needed. This is currently achieved by
   fiberglass insulation and an air cooled aluminum sleeve separating the
   heated cell from the magnets. Note that the space dedicated to
   insulation and cooling takes away from the amount of magnetic matterial
   which can be used ot increase the magnetic field.

  Conclusion

   The adaption of the DAVLL system for sodium is at this point a work in
   progress. A signal has been obtained, but further work is required
   before this signal can be used to lock the laser frequency. Progress
   has been limited for the last two weeks due laser problems. The laser
   should be available again within the week, and a functional apparatus
   is expected within two weeks of that date. From that point on
   refinements can be made as deemed nessicary.

  References

   [1] K.L. Corwin, Z. T. Lu, C. F. Hand, R. J. Epstein, and C. E. Weiman,
   "Frequency stabilized diode laser with the Zeeman shift in an atomic
   vapor", Appl Optics 37(15), 3295-3298, May 1998
   [2] V. Yashchuk, D. Budker, and J. Davis, "Laser Frequency
   Stabilization Using Linear Magneto-Optics: Technical Notes", Report
   LBNL-43523, June 1999
