http://www.usembassycanada.gov/content/index.asp

   Welcome - Bienvenue

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   Search Site Map Contact Us

   Consulate Calgary Consulate Halifax Consulate Montreal Consulate Quebec
   Consulate Toronto Consulate Vancouver
   Embassy Ottawa Visas/US Citizen Services. Canada-U.S.A. Relations About
   the U.S.A. Current Issues Fulbright

   spacer
   spacer
   spacer
   Image: Seal of the U.S. Embassy Welcome to the Web site of the United
   States Mission in Canada. The Mission works to promote better relations
   between the United States and Canada -- our largest trading partner and
   excellent friend and neighbor. In addition to providing information
   about the U.S. to Canadians, the site also gives United States Citizens
   information they may require from the Embassy. spacer Image: The
   Embassy of the United States of America, Ottawa
   Latest Headlines from the Embassy
   [Please visit the Headlines Archive for less recent items, and
   Actualités for items in French]

   2002 State of the Union Address. January 29, 2002. "Our first priority
   must always be the security of our nation, and that will be reflected
   in the budget I send to Congress. My budget supports three great goals
   for America: We will win this war; we'll protect our homeland; and we
   will revive our economy."

   President Bush will be delivering his State of the Union Address on
   January 29th 2002 at 9 p.m EST.
   Backgrounder :The State of The Union, a Tradition Since 1790

   President Bush Increases Budget for Border Security Remarks by the
   President on Homeland Security. January 25, 2002.

   Border Security - Smart Borders for the 21st Century. White House press
   release. January 25, 2002.

   A Detour to Kindness: Delta 15 in Newfoundland. State Magazine,
   November 2001. Delta flight 15 was diverted to Gander, Newfoundland on
   September 11.

   Preparing for the World: Homeland Security and the Salt Lake City
   Winter Olympics. January 10, 2002. [read more about the Olympics...]

   More Than 100 Arrested in Nationwide Methamphetamine Investigation. DEA
   cites cooperation with Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Drug Enforcement
   Administration press release. January 10, 2002.

   The North American Mosaic: A State of the Environment Report. North
   American Commission for Environmental Cooperation. January 07, 2002.
   [this document is in .pdf format]

   Action Plan for Creating a Secure and Smart Border. December 12, 2001.

   The Smart Border Declaration: Building a Smart Border for the 21st
   Century on the Foundation of a North American Zone of Confidence.
   December 12, 2001.

   Fact Sheet: Action Plan for a Secure U.S.-Canada Border . December 12,
   2001.

   U.S. Homeland Security Director Thomas Ridge, background, and Canadian
   Foreign Affairs Minister John Manley, hold a joint news conference in
   Ottawa, Wednesday, Dec. 12, 2001.(AP Photo/Canadian Press, Fred
   Chartrand) U.S. Homeland Security Director Thomas Ridge, background,
   and Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister John Manley, hold a joint news
   conference in Ottawa, Wednesday, Dec. 12, 2001.(AP Photo/Canadian
   Press, Fred Chartrand)

   Transcript: U.S., Canadian Officials Sign Border Security Declaration
   December 12, 2001.

   Meeting our Common Security Challenges: Joint Statement on Cooperation
   on Border Security and Regional Migration Issues. December 03, 2001.

   Text: Attorney General Hails U.S.-Canada Border Security Agreement
   (Accord represents vital weapon against terrorism, says Ashcroft)
   December 03, 2001.

   Thank you Canada!
   Thank you, Canada!

   Spotlight U.S.A
   Response to Terrorism
   For the latest statements on the U.S. government policy on terrorism
   and the efforts to build a global coalition in response to the
   terrorist attacks on the U.S. visit Response to Terrorism

   Ambassador Boucher on the U.S. Report to the UN Counterterrorism
   Committee 12.19.901 U.S. Report to the Counterterrorism Committee.
   Report to the Counterterrorism Committee pursuant to paragraph 6 of
   security council resolution 1373 of 28 September 2001 Implementation of
   UNSCR 1373. December 20, 2001. [audio clip]
   The Global War on Terrorism: The First 100 Days. [this document is in
   .pdf format].

   The Department of Justice administers a Victim Compensation Fund and
   has recently published an Interim Final Rule which sets out procedures
   by which those injured and representatives of those killed in the
   September 11th attacks can apply for compensation.

   U.S. Humanitarian Assistance to Afghan Refugees: Wheat / Food Aid
   [video] [transcript]

   An Afghan girl hauls a bag of rice at the Islamic Relief US aid
   distribution center in Kandahar, Afghanistan, Dec. 29, 2001. (AP/Wide
   World photo - John Moore) U.S. Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan

   Worldwide Caution for U.S. Citizens. U.S. Department of State. October
   23, 2001.

   Traveling to the U.S.A.?
   For conditions at U.S.-Canada border crossings, visit the border wait
   times page on the U.S. Customs Service web site.

   Security tips for air travelers to the U.S. from the Federal Aviation
   Administration.

   Press Release: Notice Regarding Border Crossing Cards. September 28,
   2001.

   What is required in order to bring my pet across the border? Do I need
   a visa? Which customs regulations affect me? For answers to these and
   other questions on traveling to the U.S., check out our links under
   travel. Whether you are going to the U.S. for business or pleasure
   these sections have all the information you'll need to know for
   planning your trip.

   spacer spacer
          spacer

          Privacy Statement & Disclaimer
          Embassy of the United States of America, Ottawa
