http://www.kids.gov/k_environ.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
     Image of boy hugging earth Environment Did you know that every year
    100,000 sea animals die from eating or getting caught in the trash in
   the ocean? That 71% of the Earth's surface is water? Use these sites to
    learn more about our planet Earth and what you can do to protect it.
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Ask the Answer Worm - S.K.Worm, the official annelid, or worm, of
     the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation
          Service answers students questions about soil and stuff.
     Item California Deserts - Explore the wild world of the California
   desert. Take a look at the area's nature, people, and weather, or find
   out what to do there. There are also lots of great photos of different
                              desert features.
   Item Children's Health Protection - Learn of some things you can do to
              protect health from hazards in the environment.
     Item Energy Information Administration Kids Page - Learn along with
                Energy Ant about different types of energy.
     Item EPA - Kids' Stuff - This EPA - Office of Water's web page has
    links to games and activities that will help you learn about drinking
                                   water.
     Item EPA Global Warming Kids Site - This site explains what global
      warming is, the greenhouse effect, and the changes in climate and
                                  weather.
    Item Explorers' Club - The Environmental Protection Agency's website
   allows you to explore your environment and learn about the many things
                         you can do to protect it.
      Item Kids On The Web - This Department of the Interior site has a
   number of links to information on wildlife, landmarks, coal mining and
                                 much more.
   Item Kids' Science Page - National Agricultural Library - Hey kids! Do
   you like to eat? What's your nutrition IQ? Do you really enjoy animals?
    Insects too? Do you like veterinary medicine? Is engineering what you
   want to do? Interested in plants or ecology? Does chemistry excite you?
              Learn more about food and agricultural sciences.
       Item Minerals Management Service Kids Page - Learn how Minerals
      Management Service (MMS), a bureau in the U.S. Department of the
    Interior, is the federal agency manages the nation's natural gas, oil
     and other mineral resources on the outer continental shelf (OCS).
     Item NASA for Kids Only - This NASA kids site brings the world into
   your playroom. Listen to an earthquake's rumble. Look into the eye of a
     hurricane. Find out why the wind blows. Visit storms up close. Play
    games. The kids' quizzes here feature sound effects. Flashy graphics
   and well-written text make complicated science kid-friendly. Guarantee:
   If a child spends at hour at this site, she'll learn a few things most
                             adults don't know.
     Item National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - This Arctic
      Theme Page provides access to widely distributed Arctic data and
     information for scientists, students, teachers, academia, managers,
                  decision makers and the general public.
       Item National Weather Service Kids Page - The National Weather
      Service's kids' page serves up age-appropriate fun for all kids.
        Download an informative tornado-safety coloring book for your
   preschooler. While she's coloring, your older children can click on the
      Severe Storms Lab Weather Room where lightning flashes across the
        screen while they choose from a mean-weather menu. Tornadoes?
    Hurricanes? Lightning? Learn how to read a weather map or read about
   the scientists who chase storms. Kids who want more substance can click
                          into a litany of links.
    Item Nature Net - Learn about wildlife, plants, geologic resources in
                            our parks, and more.
   Item NIEHS Kids' Page - Learn how the environment affects your health.
    Get ideas for science projects, tackle some brainteasers, and more.
    Item Office of Transportation Technologies Kids Page - This page was
      made just for boys and girls that want to have fun learning about
     alternative fuel cars and helping the environment. We have a great
    story about an electric car and how a young boy helped his daddy buy
    it. We also have a coloring book that helps you learn about cleaning
                       the air. Have fun with both!!!
    Item Park Net - Take a tour through the National Park System, explore
      historical place and learn about natural resources in our parks.
     Item Recycle City - There's lots to do here - people and places to
    visit and plenty of ways to explore how the city's residents recycle,
                          reduce, and reuse waste.
    Item Roofus' Solar and Efficient Neighborhood - Find out how Roofus'
             Solar Home is energy smart and what makes it run.
    Item The Globe Program - Global Learning and Observations to Benefit
    the Environment (GLOBE) is a worldwide network of students, teachers,
     and scientists working together to study and understand the global
     environment. Students and teachers from over 10,000 schools in more
    than 95 countries are working with research scientists to learn more
                             about our planet.
     Item The Weather Room - This page provides general information for
      kids, parents, and teachers. Elementary school coloring books are
       available for parents and teachers to print and use for weather
                   education in the classroom or at home.
     Item U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service - Especially for Kids! - Learn
    about endangered species, national wildlife refuges, migratory birds,
    fisheries resources , the value of wetlands, and how kids, like you,
                                 can help.
   Item USGS - Learning Web - Explore things on, in, around, and about the
     Earth such as plants and animals, land, water, and maps. Learn how
    biology, geology, hydrology, and geography can help us understand our
                              changing world.
    Item Visible Earth - If you've ever wondered what different parts of
     the Earth or nature look like, this is definitely the site for you!
       NASA brings us a searchable directory of pictures, images, and
     animations of the Earth, from pictures of the state you live in to
                radar images of glaciers or the atmosphere.
    Item Vortex: Unraveling the Mystery - This site contains information
      and pictures of how tornadoes develop and real data collected by
                              tornado chasers.
    Item Water Science for Schools - This site offers information on many
    aspects of water, along with pictures, data, maps, and an interactive
     center where you can give opinions and test your water knowledge.
     Item Woodsy Owl - Woodsy Owl is a whimsical fellow and he's got his
     heart set on motivating kids to form healthy, lasting relationships
   with nature. Woodsy encourages youngsters to marvel at and explore the
   natural world, even in the city. His new motto, "Lend a Hand--Care for
     the Land." encourages everyone to make a positive difference in the
                                   world.
        Item Year of the Ocean - The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration (NOAA) provides information on marine life, threatened
      and endangered species, facts about the world's oceans fish, and
                          protecting coral reefs.

                             Organization Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Animal Nation - Visit this weekly online newspaper that focuses on
             different cool mammals, insects, birds, and fish!
    Item ASPCA Animaland - Visit the ASPCA's special kids section for the
      low down on the animal kingdom. You can ask Azula anything about
           animals, play some games, or read about wild careers.
       Item Cloud Forest Alive - If Africa's not your thing, how about
   checking out the cloud forests in Central America? Weekly lessons and a
        variety of webcams make you feel like you're actually there!
    Item Fantastic Forest - Look and listen as you take a virtual nature
      walk and discover what's in this forest from National Geographic!
              You'll need to have Shockwave to view the site.
    Item Jason XII 2001: A Living Laboratory - Meet the team of argonauts
   for this Hawaiian adventure and investigate volcanoes, coral, culture,
   and more. Read the latest notes from the field and find out how to get
                                 involved.
    Item Kid Outdoors - Check out this e-zine that has colorful articles
    with information about where to go, what to do and bring, and when to
   visit the outdoors! You can also learn safety tips or try fun puzzles.
   Item Poisonous Plants and Animals - What does this site have to do with
     this week's theme? Well, guess which country is known for its many
   unique poisonous animals? Yep, it's Australia. But you can learn about
        poisonous plants and animals from all over the world on this
                             informative site.
   Item PowerSmart - Tips to Save Money and the Planet - Find out ways to
    help your parents save money and help our planet by making your home
                           more energy-efficient.
    Item Serengeti National Park - Go on safari with this park's official
     site. Discover the region's people and learn about its magnificent
                    wildlife. Includes a photo gallery.
     Item Sled Dogs: An Alaskan Epic - Mush! It's a dog's life and PBS'
   Nature wants to show you what it's like. Find out what it takes to pull
    those sleds across frozen terrain and read the story of Balto, a very
    brave Husky. You can even try your hand at some virtual dogsledding.

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item Live from the Rain Forest - Let biologists take you to the heart
       of Earth's largest rainforest. Explore a gallery of images and
    information on the ecosystem, check out maps, and read journals that
              take you behind the scenes and into the jungle!
    Item Smokey the Bear - Join Smokey for some forest and campfire fun.
   And, along the way, discover Smokey's rules for forest fire safety and
        prevention so that you can become a member of Smokey's team!
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
