http://cmth.phy.bnl.gov/~maslov/

                                Sergei Maslov
                 Home Contact Me Recent Papers Talks Applets




   Low-dimensional
   magnetism          Properties
                  of ultra-thin films Interdisciplinary Physics &
                                      Self-Organized Criticality

                                  [loohorsa.gif]

   About myself:

      I am an assistant physicist at the Condensed Matter Theory Group ,
      Department of Physics, Brookhaven National Laboratory  located on the
      eastern end of Long Island, New York FL00101_.WMF (34412 bytes) .

      I graduated from the famous 57th mathematical high school in Moscow.  I
      hold the B. S. in Physics and Mathematics and M. S. in Physics and
      Applied Mathematics from  Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology
      FL00082_.WMF (4370 bytes) .  My M. S. thesis work on vortex lines in
      layered superconductors was done at the Landau Institute  under the
      guidance of Prof. Valery Pokrovsky.

      Then in 1992 I moved to US and stayed on Long Island ever since, first
      as a Ph.D. student at the SUNY at Stony Brook FL00101_.WMF (34412
      bytes) ,  while working at Brookhaven on self-organized criticality,
      with Per Bak (now at the Niels Bohr Institute).

      After my Ph.D. I continued to work at Brookhaven first as a postdoc and
      then as a staff member.  I now work on low-dimensional magnetism in
      collaboration with Andrey Zheludev, Gen Shirane from the BNL neutron
      scattering group, and other experimentalists mostly from Japan.
      Recently I got involved in work on ultra-thin films in collaboration
      with the IR spectroscopy experimental group here at BNL and the UC San
      Diego.

      During my regular summer visits to Yi-Cheng Zhang at the Institute for
      Theoretical Physics in Fribourg, Switzerland FL00095_.WMF (3554 bytes)
       , and short trips to Chao Tang at the NEC Research Institute in
      Princeton, NJ FL00101_.WMF (34412 bytes) ,  I am working on
      econophysics (application of the methods of Statistical Physics to
      problems of economics and finance) and properties such as the 1/f-noise
      of models of Self-Organized Criticality.

      If you want more details look in my Curriculum Vitae.

                                  [loohorsa.gif]

   Research interests:

   [loobul1a.gif]

                  Low-dimensional magnetism:

   [loobul2a.gif]

                  Nd[2]BaNiO[5] -- a Haldane chain in
                  a staggered magnetic field:

   This is an artistic interpretation combining the structure and Haldane
   gap excitation spectrum of Nd[2]BaNiO[5] made by my friend and
   collaborator Andrey Zheludev for the cover of Neutron News.

                         haldane1.jpg (103995 bytes)

   The main ingredient of this material is Ni (S=1) ions arranged in
   chains, making it a near perfect example of 1D Heisenberg
   antiferomagnet. It was predicted by Haldane that 1D antiferromagnet
   with integer (as opposed to half-integer) spin will be in a
   quantum-disordered state, where the long range antiferromagnetic order
   is completely destroyed by quantum fluctuations. In this disordered
   state what used to be a doublet of gapless magnons (spin waves) is now
   a triplet of excitations with a finite energy gap at the AFM zone
   center.

   This is exactly what was observed in Y[2]BaNiO[5] (a closest relative
   of our material in which magnetic Nd rare-earth ion was replaced by the
   non-magnetic Y). This material does not develop AFM long range order
   and has all features of quantum disordered ground state, described by
   Haldane. Now the Nd-based material does order at 48K and at a first
   thought should have no energy gap in it's excitation spectrum below
   ordering temperature. However, the experiment tells us that not only
   that it's spin-excitation spectrum has an energy gap around 10 meV,
   but this gap even grows as T is decreased below T[N]!

   This somewhat counterintuitive behavior can be explained in terms of a
   simple picture of a Haldane chain in a staggered magnetic field
   produced by the Nd sublattice.

   We have succeeded in:
    1. Working out the basic model and interpreting the results of neutron
       scattering experiments: cond-mat/9706047, cond-mat/9710015 (long
       review paper).
    2. Experimental measurement of the staggered magnetization curve of an
       S=1 antiferromagnetic chain:  cond-mat/9801068.
    3. Deriving quantitative theoretical predictions for the increase in
       Haldane gap as a function of the staggered moment, induced by the
       external staggered field, as well as the overall shape of the
       staggered magnetization  curve. These predictions, based on the
       existing numerical data, describing the shape of effective
       potential in O(3)-symmetric field theory, are in a beautiful
       agreement with the experimental data in Nd[2]BaNiO[5]:
       cond-mat/9803393.
    4. Describing the intensity of collective Ni-Nd excitations as a
       function of the wave vector component perpendicular to chains. What
       happens here is that Haldane-gapped magnons on Ni-chains couple
       with the higher energy crystal-field excitations of Nd ions. This
       results in intensity modulation:
       cond-mat/9910335.

     [loobul2a.gif]

                    Ba[2]CuGeO[3] -- a Dzyaloshinskii helimagnet:

   Here is yet another magnetic curiosity: Ba[2]CuGeO[3] -- spin-spiral
   magnet.  The spiral is due to Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya antisymmetric
   exchange H[Dzyaloshinskii] = D·S[1] × S[2] competing with a much
   stronger  Heisenberg antiferromagnetic exchange H[Heisenberg]= J
   S[1]·S[2] . It is easy to see that the total energy is minimized when
   spins form an angle 180^^o+ tan^-1 D/J

                         spiral1.BMP (268198 bytes)

   We successfully explained the following properties of this material:

   A commensurate-incommensurate phase transition of that spiral in
   external vertical magnetic field. As usual it happens via a formation
   of soliton (domain wall) lattice. For details see:
   cond-mat/9701127, cond-mat/9706146 .

   A peculiar way in which the spin plane and propagation of the spiral
   can be manipulated by applying a very weak horizontal magnetic field.
   An extremely weak in-plane anisotropy of order of 10 neV (yes
   nanovolts!) per spin. For details see  cond-mat/9707166 .

   The very weak deformation of the spiral in zero vertical field
   manifested in the third order satellites of main Bragg reflections and
   the details of the spin-wave spectrum around the AFM zone center. We
   explained this deformation by taking into account the correction to
   Dzyaloshinskii-Moria interaction predicted by Kaplan, and later by
   Shekhtman, Entin-Wohlman, and Aharony. This correction, which we refer
   to as KSEA interaction (initials of the four authors above) restores
   the local O(3) symmetry to every nearest-neighbor bond.  It can be
   written as (D·S[1])(D·S[2])/2 J.   For details see  cond-mat/9805236,
   and  cond-mat/9810122.


                               [loohorsa.gif]

   [loobul1a.gif]

                  Properties of ultra-thin films:

   I recently got involved in studies of the AC conductivity in ultra-thin
   quenched-condensed Pb films cond-mat/9905036 (to appear in Phys. Rev.
   Lett.). Experimentalists here at Brookhaven can measure in situ the AC
   conductivity of such films in the infrared diapason (frequency < 8000
   cm^-1). The AC-conductivity can be first detected in films as thin as
   ~10Å .  Then one can see how its frequency profile changes as more and
   more lead is deposited. During this whole process films are held at
   liquid-Helium temperatures so that (hopefully) the deposition results
   in a more or less homogeneous film with no large grains of Pb, which
   would be produced for the deposition at room temperatures. Conductivity
   profiles in our films of increasing thickness typically look like this:

   wpe1.jpg (60040 bytes)

   As one can see, the AC conductivity increases with frequency in all but
   the very thickest of the films, in which the  Drude fall-off obscures
   this effect. One possible source of such conductivity increase is due
   to localization effects. Indeed, as frequency is increased the
   corresponding diffusion length scale decreases and the coherent
   backscattering of electrons is suppressed. However, the observed effect
   turns out to be to strong and the thickness dependence of the slope too
   bizarre to be explained in terms of localization alone. We believe that
   a much more mundane effect well known in more granular systems (such as
   films deposited at room temperature) is mainly responsible for this
   effect. Simply speaking at small length scale our films are far from
   homogeneous. They are composed of grains of Pb with horizontal
   dimensions of order of ~100-200Å. These grains are couple to each other
   both capacitively and resistively (through direct contact or
   tunneling). Of course, the capacitive coupling does not contribute to
   the DC conductivity. But for for the IR frequencies it simply cannot be
   ignored! the higher is the frequency - the stronger is this capacitive
   coupling and higher is the AC conductive. Quantitative predictions for
   the frequency dependent conductivity in such purely classical systems
   were previously derived in the framework of the percolation theory. Our
   experimental data are consistent with these predictions.

   [loobul1a.gif]

                  Self-Organized Criticality:

   Self-Organized Criticality is a concept introduced by Per Bak, Chao
   Tang, and Kurt Wiesenfeld in 1987. It refers to the tendency of large
   driven dissipative systems to organize themselves to a very peculiar
   stationary state.  The dynamics in this state is intermittent with
   periods of inactivity separated by well defined bursts of activity or
   avalanches.  The criticality of this state is manifested as the absence
   of characteristic spatial and temporal scales of these avalanches. In
   less fancy language: large avalanches occur rather often (there is no
   exponential decay of avalanche sizes, which would result in a
   characteristic avalanche size), and there is a variety of power laws
   without cutoffs in various properties of the system. The paradigm model
   for this type of behavior is the celebrated sandpile cellular automaton
   also know as the Bak-Tang-Wiesenfeld (BTW) model. I wrote a JAVA applet
   which lets you play with this model by adding sand at any site or
   setting the height of sand column at any site to any value, changing
   system size,  and boundary conditions  etc.

   Below I reproduce nice-looking snapshots of two SOC models: the BTW
   model (left) and the forest fire model (right), which was introduced in
   1990 by Per Bak, Kan Chen, and Chao Tang .

   [identity.gif] [xfires.gif]

                The identity state in the Bak-Tang-Wiesenfeld
                   sandpile model  on a 198×198 lattice.
                Heights of columns of sand are color coded as
                       green-3, blue-2, red-1, gray-0.

                          Adding this state to any
              recurrent configuration of the BTW sandpile model
                  and letting it relax, in the end produces
                    the  unchanged initial configuration.
                    Rules of the model are described here

                 A snapshot of a self-sustained forest fire
            (yellow -fires, green -trees, black - empty spaces).
                     Rules of the game are very simple:
               Trees grow on empty spaces with probability p;
            a fire burns down to an empty space in one time step
             but  manages to ignite all nearest-neighbor trees.
               In order for this model to be a realistic model
               of forest fires, trees have to grow fast enough
              to replace their burned neighbors, while the fire
             is still burning :(. But the model is fun to watch
                                   anyhow.

   the images were made by Mike Creutz who is working on high-energy
   physics here at Brookhaven. At his Xtoys page you can find more images
   , as well as neat X-windows-based interactive simulation programs you
   can play with.  My JAVA applet of sandpile model is written under the
   influence of his xsand C-program for X-windows.

     [loobul1a.gif]

                    Interdisciplinary physics:

   My research interests in this field are concentrated in three main
   directions:

   Self-Organized Criticality (SOC) in general and SOC extremal models in
   particular. These models, including the Bak-Sneppen model, Invasion
   percolation, Zaitsev model, etc., have a mechanism of organizing
   themselves to a scale-free stationary state, which is completely
   different from the conservation of sand in sandpile models.  Their main
   feature is that activity always happens at the site, characterized by
   the global minimum (or maximum if you like it better) of some variable.
   As a result of this activity this variable is updated at the minimum
   site itself and its nearest neighbors according to some stochastic
   rule. The exact definition of this rule defines the universality class
   of the model. In  cond-mat/9803068, and cond-mat/9710152  you can find
   more about recent analytical advances in calculating critical exponents
   of SOC extremal models.

   Econophysics -- application of techniques and concepts of
   non-equilibrium statistical physics to studies of stock-market
   fluctuations and other questions of economics and finance. My research
   concentrated on multiplicative nature of fluctuations in economics.
   Even the simplest multiplicative stochastic process -- multiplicative
   random walk has some unexpected features cond-mat/9801240 . A
   multiplicative fluctuations in dynamically managed portfolio can give
   rise to non-universal power law distributions cond-mat/9801239.
   Recently I constructed  (cond-mat/9910502) a simple model of a
   limit-order driven market, where agents with equal probability trade
   stock at the market price or place limit orders, i.e. instructions to
   sell (buy) if stock price raises above (falls below) a predetermined
   price level. In spite of the minimalistic nature of the rules of this
   model (no strategies, or trader psychology, e.t.c.) they give rise to a
   set of nontrivial features. These features include fat tails of price
   fluctuations distribution function, characterized by two power law
   exponents, volatility clustering, and nontrivial Hurst exponent of the
   stock price as a function of time. I am also on the advisory board of
   the Econophysics Forum, which is a monthly Web bulletin of interest to
   members of the econophysics community.

   1/f-noise and long memory in non-equilibrium systems still lacks
   universal explanation. In my recent paper with Chao Tang and Yi-Cheng
   Zhang we investigate the nature of long term configurational memory and
   the 1/f-noise in sandpile models defined on narrow stripes and driven
   by local addition of sand at one column. Interestingly, the underlying
   mechanism for the 1/f  noise in this athermal nonequilibrium system is
   very similar to the mechanism traditionally used for the explanation of
   the 1/f-noise in voltage fluctuations in wires at thermal equilibrium.
   More details about this work as well as JAVA applets illustrating the
   main points of our paper can be found here.

                               [loohorsa.gif]


    maslov@bnl.gov


    Sergei Maslov

   [Count.cgi?df=maslov_home.dat&amp;sh=F] [ISMAP:counter.gif?22890]
