http://education.gsfc.nasa.gov/pages/previous.html

   GSFC Education Programs graphic NASA Logo
   NASA's 5 enterprises image map
   [search.jpg]
   FOIA

                                    TITLE

                                 DESCRIPTION

   Hubble Space Telescope
   10th Anniversary April marked the tenth anniversary of one of the
   greatest observatories ever flown. We have watched in awe as the Hubble
   Space Telescope has produced some of the most amazing images about the
   Universe that surrounds us," said Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD). "I
   am so proud of the NASA team that has worked to keep it running and I'm
   pleased my support has kept your efforts funded and in business."
   SPACEDAY 2000
   MAY 4, 2000 Space has always fascinated humankind. So way back in 1997,
   some people got together and created a tribute to those endlessly
   engaging phenomena which constitute our universe--and to the people
   who, through their space-related work, have contributed so much to
   science, medicine and everyday life.

                   EARTH AND SPACE SCIENCE INVESTIGATIONS

   Education Mall Coming soon, but you can start today. Goddard's
   education office has begun an endeavor to make education materials
   easily available to teachers and students alike. This one stop shopping
   mall will grow as time goes on. Today you can look at science briefs
   designed for Middle and High school students and you can participate in
   piloting new education materials by simply looking here.

                              Science Question

   Science Question of the week brought to you by Jim Foster of NASA
   Goddard Space Flight Center.

                         Y2K Engineering Competition

   Students work in 4 - 6 member teams to solve real world engineering
   challenges encountered in the Terra Earth Observing System mission

              View images and activities from the 1999 Eclipse

   On Wednesday, August 11, 1999, a total eclipse of the Sun was visible
   from within a narrow corridor that traverses the Eastern Hemisphere.
   The path of the Moon's umbral shadow begins in the Atlantic and crosses
   Central Europe, the Middle East, and India where it ends at sunset in
   the Bay of Bengal. This event was the last total solar eclipse of the
   20th century, and it will benefit formal and informal education
   communities alike

                                 Yosemite 99

   Follow this unique educational experience as technology bridges two
   high school classes from across the country together in a learning
   experience. Focusing on AP Biology and environmental science, students
   from Kingsburg High School in Kingsburg, California will be conducting
   field experiments and gathering data from Yosemite National Park while
   their counterparts from Pikeview High School in Princeton, WV collect
   field data from Pipestem State Park. Together they will share and
   compare the similarities and differences between east coast mountain
   and west coast biomes.

                        From Stargazers to Starships

   This is a web site dealing with an introductory study course covering:
   Astronomy of the Earth's motion in space, Newtonian mechanics, The Sun,
   Spaceflight and spacecraft

                        Learning Technologies Channel

   NASA Quest produces live streaming video programs with open Chat Rooms
   for live interaction with Scientists and Experts participating in the
   programs. Live events are delivered via streaming media to the Web.
   Live interaction with the Scientists and other participants during the
   events is made possible through an open Posting Room where your
   questions are answered in real time during the broadcast.

                                   TDRS-H

   NASA is poised to launch the first of three of the most advanced
   communications satellites ever designed, to replenish the existing
   on-orbit fleet that has served the space community since 1983. The
   newest generation Tracking and Data Relay Satellites (TDRS) will
   provide vital communication links with the Space Shuttle, International
   Space Station, Hubble Space Telescope and other spacecraft and launch
   vehicles.

                          Landsat - 7 Teacher's Kit

   The purpose of this teacher's kit is to provide educators with
   materials and ideas about teaching changes on the earth using remote
   sensing data. The educational materials have been targeted for the
   fifth through eighth grade level.

                           NASA Technology Portal

   What is NASA doing to develop emerging technologies and how is it using
   them to address today's challenges? Internet users can find that
   information and more at a new Web site -- the NASA Technology Portal.
   The easy-to-use Internet gateway offers a look into the core of NASA's
   technology development and technology transfer programs.

                                  NASA Kids

   NASA KIDS offers a fun way for children to learn about NASA's
   activities and science, using interactive tools and kid-attractive
   pages.  NASA KIDS is an on-line or printable resource designed for
   students from Kindergarten to 8th grade.

            75TH ANNIVERSARY OF FIRST LIQUID FUELED ROCKET LAUNCH

   Seventy-five years ago, on March 16, 1926, Dr. Robert H. Goddard
   successfully launched the first liquid fueled rocket. Click to see the
   activities GSFC has planned.

   Welcome to NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center!
   Programs for the Public
   NASA Education Programs
   Educator Resource Center
   Goddard Visitor Center
   Interaction with the university community
   All of the NASA centers
   Look here for new images and movies
   Every week there is a new science question of the week that will be
   answered the following week
   Looking for a past featured Program? Look here
   join one of the GSFC listservs for your area
   Placement Forms
   Find out what is going on in your state

   image of NASA"s enterprises

   Earth Science description image

   Space Science definition image

   Aero Space definition image

   Human exploration and developmnet of space definition image

   Biological and physical research definition image

   Author: Robert E. Gabrys
   Curator: Shane Keating
   Comments and Questions
   Last Updated:11/2/01

   NASA Privacy Statement, Disclaimer,
   and Accessibility Certification
