http://www.sst.nrel.gov/topics/light_metal.html

                   Quantum-Mechanical Design of Metal Alloys

   [cs.gif]

   Metal alloys (e.g., aluminum- and magnesium-based) have great promise
   to reduce the weight of cars and light trucks without compromising
   safety. However, much basic science is not yet understood about e.g.
   Al-alloys, leading alloy designers often to simply "guess" at the
   parameters to be used in microstructural models. Thus, the role of
   basic energetic and thermodynamic data in designing metal alloys is
   crucial towards their application. Researchers working in NRELs Solid
   State Theory Group have developed computational techniques for applying
   highly-accurate "state-of-the-art" first-principles (i.e., completely
   quantum-mechanical, parameter-free) computational approaches to
   obtaining thermodynamic properties of alloys. These calculations will
   play a central role in predicting a new class of modern metal alloys,
   designed on computers rather than in laboratories.

   First-principles quantum-mechanical calculations are computationally
   expensive; thus, even on todays fastest computers, the system size
   which can be simulated by first-principles approaches are limited by
   computational resources, and thus some "scaling up" of length scales is
   necessary to treat thermodynamic alloy problems. One method for this
   scaling up which is currently utilized in NRELs Solid State Theory
   Group is in mapping accurate first-principles data onto simpler energy
   functionals which can then be used on a much larger length scale. The
   method is known as LEGO, or "Linear Expansion in Geometric Objects".
   Examples of this type of approach are in precipitation hardening in
   Al-Cu and Al-Zn alloys: Like most pure metals, aluminum is relatively
   weak, and therefore need to be strengthened via alloying additions. In
   precipitation hardening, common in Al-alloys, a small amount of a
   solute element is added to Al at high temperatures, and then the alloy
   is quenched down in temperature past the solubility limit of the
   alloying element. Thus, the solute element begins to precipitate out of
   the Al matrix, and these precipitates act to pin dislocations, and
   hence improve mechanical strength. However, without understanding the
   structure and stability of the precipitated phase, alloy designers
   cannot fully understand the strengthening mechanism. NREL researchers
   have predicted the thermodynamic stability and atomic-scale structure
   of Cu precipitates embedded in an Al matrix. The precipitation is
   determined by a combination of strain and interfacial energies, and an
   example of calculated strain energies for Cu embedded in Al is shown in
   Fig. 1. By using both strain and interfacial in thermodynamic Monte
   Carlo simulations, one can predict the complete atomic-scale structure
   of precipitates in Al. An exampleof this kind of hybrid
   "first-principles/scale up" approach is shown in Fig. 2, which shows
   the atomic-scale structure of an ordered Cu precipitate in a dilute
   Al-Cu alloy.

                           [AlCu_GP2_PICT_4x.gif]

   In the case of Al-Zn, our model allows for the first time a prediction
   of the observed size- and temperature dependence of precipitates in
   this alloy system. These precipitates consist only of Zn atoms.
   Examples of precipitates are visible in Fig. 3: In agreement with
   experimental studies, the precipitates change from a nearly spherical
   to a more hexagonal/ellipsoidal shape with decreasing temperature and
   increasing size.

                               [alzn_prec.gif]

   The thermodynamic calculation was performed for a system of more than
   200,000 atoms, extending to length scales approaching 200 Å
   approximately scaling the length scale of the first-principles
   calculations by a factor of 20-50. With further improvements, length
   scales of 1000 Å are in sight, thus leading to the possibility of
   microstructural modeling with completely atomistic approaches.

Selected References:

    1. A. Zunger, "First Principles Statistical Mechanics of Semiconductor
       Alloys and Intermetallic Compounds," in NATO Advanced Study
       Institute on Statics and Dynamics of Alloy Phase Transformations,
       edited by P. Turchi and A. Gonis, Plenum Press, New York, 361-419
       (1994).
    2. Z. W. Lu, B. M. Klein and A. Zunger, "Spin-polarization-induced
       structural selectivity in Pd[3]X and Pt[3]X (X=3d) compounds,"
       Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 1320-1323 (1995).
    3. C. Wolverton, V. Ozolins, and A. Zunger, "First-Principles Theory
       of Short-range Order in Size-mismatched Metal Alloys: Cu-Au, Cu-Ag,
       and Ni-Au," Phys. Rev. B. 57, 4332 (1998).
    4. V. Ozolins, C. Wolverton, and A. Zunger, "Cu-Au, Ag-Au, Cu-Ag, and
       Ni-Au Intermetallics: First-Principles Study of Phase Diagrams and
       Structures", Phys. Rev. B 57, 6427 (1998).
    5. C. Wolverton and A. Zunger, "An Ising-like Description of
       Structurally-Relaxed Ordered and Disordered Alloys", Phys. Rev.
       Lett.75, 3162 (1995).
    6. S. Müller, C. Wolverton, L.-W. Wang, and Alex Zunger, "Coherent
       phase stability in Al-Zn and Al-Cu fcc alloys: The role of the
       instability of fcc-Zn", Phys. Rev. B, accepted

Other References

   For a listing of all SST references on the topics "Transition Metal
   Alloys", "Electronic Structure of Random Networks", and "Light Metal
   Alloys", click on the "Get References" button below.
   Get References
