http://www.vos.noaa.gov/wmo.html


               The WMO Voluntary Observing Ships (VOS) Scheme

                               [shipline.gif]

   Background The international scheme by which ships plying the various
   oceans and seas of the world are recruited by National Meteorological
   Services (NMSs) for taking and transmitting meteorological observations
   is called the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Voluntary
   Observing Ships' (VOS) scheme. The forerunner of the scheme dates back
   as far as 1853, the year in which delegates of ten maritime countries
   came together at a conference in Brussels, on the initiative of Matthew
   F. Maury, then director of the United States Navy Hydrographic Office,
   to discuss his proposal for the establishment of a uniform system for
   the collection of meteorological and oceanographical data from the
   oceans and the use of these data for the benefit of shipping in return.

   The conference accepted his proposal and adopted a standard form of
   ship's log and a set of standard instructions for the necessary
   observations .

   From the very beginning, ships' meteorological observations were
   recognized as being essential for the provision of safetyrelated
   meteorological services for ships at sea, as well as for climatological
   purposes.

   The situation today

   At the present time, the contribution which VOS meteorological reports
   make to operational meteorology, to marine meteorological services and
   to global climate studies is unique and irreplaceable. During the past
   few decades, the increasing recognition of the role of the oceans in
   the global climate system has placed even greater emphasis on the
   importance of marine meteorological and oceanographical observing
   systems.

   One of the major continuing problems facing meteorology is the scarcity
   of data from vast areas of the world's oceans (the socalled 'datasparse
   areas') in support of basic weather forecasting, the provision of
   marine meteorological and oceanographic services, and climate analysis
   and research.

   While the new generation of meteorological satellites will help
   substantially to overcome these problems, data from more conventional
   platforms, in particular the voluntary observing ships, will remain
   essential for the foreseeable future, to provide ground truth for the
   satellite observations, to provide important information which the
   satellites cannot observe, to provide an essential contribution to the
   data input for the numerical weather prediction (NWP) models which are
   the basis of the presentday forecasts and warnings, and to provide
   realtime reports which can be used immediately in services for the
   mariner. In addition to their use in NWP, reports from ships at sea are
   also used operationally, even more directly, in the preparation of
   forecasts and warnings, including those for the GMDSS, and issued
   specifically for the mariner.

   Thus, without VOS observations, reliable and timely services for
   mariners cannot be provided.

   The VOS Fleet Size

   A peak in total VOS was reached in 1984/85 when about 7700 ships
   worldwide were on the WMO VOS Fleet List. Since then there has been an
   irregular but marked decline and in June 1994, the Fleet strength was
   about 7200 ships. As might be expected, realtime reports from the VOS
   are heavily concentrated along the major shipping routes, primarily in
   the North Atlantic and North Pacific Oceans. The chart below shows the
   data sparse areas in all the southern hemisphere oceans. While this
   situation certainly reflects the relatively small numbers of ships
   sailing in these waters, it also makes it more essential that ships
   sailing in these areas should be part of the VOS and thus contribute to
   the global observing program and consequent enhancement of the forecast
   and warning services to the mariner. Of course, as VOS reports are part
   of a global data capture program, their reports are of value from all
   the oceans and seas of the world, and even the well frequented North
   Atlantic and North Pacific Oceans require more observational data.

   Undisplayed Graphic

   Data Sparse Areas

   What are the charges to be part of the VOS scheme?

   THERE ARE NO CHARGES TO THE SHIP OR TO THE OPERATOR. The tested marine
   meteorological instruments necessary to undertake weather observing at
   sea are supplied free of charge to the ship, installed by a
   professional from the NMS, usually a trained Port Met. Officer who will
   provide advice on the technique of observing at sea, explain the use of
   the WMO SHIP code and offer guidance on the transmission of the
   observations from the ship to shore, using the ship's own satcom or
   terrestrial communications equipment. THERE ARE NO CHARGES TO THE SHIP
   FOR THE TRANSMISSION OF VOS WEATHER REPORTS. After recruitment into the
   VOS, the meteorological instruments will be regularly serviced, without
   charge to the ship or ship owner, by an official of either the
   'recruiting NMS' or from the worldwide network of WMO Members who
   operate the VOS.

   How can you become involved?

   If a ShippingAdministrator:

   (i) Be aware that ships' meteorological reports can make a significant
   contribution to safety of life and navigation through better quality
   forecasts and warnings. (ii) Ensure that your ship operators are aware
   of the WMO VOS scheme and encourage their participation.

   If a Ship Operator:

   (i) Contact your NMS, or a local Port Meteorological Officer, nominate
   your ships for recruitment into the WMO VOS scheme. REMEMBER: HELP
   IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF FORECASTS AND WARNINGS, CONTRIBUTE TO THE
   ENHANCEMENT OF SAFETY AT SEA.

   Become involved with the VOS!
