http://exchanges.state.gov/education/hhh/

   globe                                             U.S. Department of State
         lines
                                               contact us FOIA Privacy Notice
         About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
         Abroad
         Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
         Education and Culture
         Business Center Other Services Employment
         [button6.gif]



   Program Evaluation
   Executive Summary
   Applying and Eligibility

   Eligible Foreign Countries
   and Locations

   The Humphrey Year
   Program Administration
   Current Host Institutions
   Humphrey Fellows
   Magazine

   Humphrey Alumni



   Humphrey Fellowships

   [humph.gif] Founded in 1978 in honor of the late Senator and
   Vice-president, the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program brings
   accomplished mid-level professionals from designated countries in
   Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, and
   Eurasia to the United States for a year of study and professional
   experience.

   The program encourages a variety of U.S. and foreign partnerships
   worldwide. Fellowships are awarded competitively to candidates with a
   commitment to public service in both the public and private sectors,
   specifically in the fields of natural resources and environmental
   management, public policy analysis and administration, law and human
   rights, finance and banking, economic development, agricultural
   development/economics, human resource management, urban and regional
   planning, public health policy and management, technology policy and
   management, educational planning, communications/journalism, and drug
   abuse epidemiology, education, treatment and prevention.

   Applying/Eligibility
   Applications are submitted to the American Embassy or Fulbright
   Commission in the candidate's home country. Eligible candidates must
   have an undergraduate degree, five years of substantial professional
   experience, demonstrated leadership qualities, and a suitable level of
   English proficiency. Awards are announced in the spring for fellowships
   beginning in the fall.

   The Humphrey Year
   Fellowships are limited to one academic year, preceded if appropriate,
   by English language training. The program provides coursework combined
   with professional enrichment activities tailored to each Fellow's
   interests.
   Fellows are grouped at carefully selected U.S. host institutions with
   Humphrey Coordinators and advisers who provide academic and
   administrative support to each Fellow on individualized program design
   and implementation. Fellows attend a workshop in Washington, D.C. to
   interact with leaders from the U.S. federal government, multinational
   organizations, and the private sector. Throughout the year, Fellows
   engage in a variety of professional activities, including site visits
   and workshops.

   Program Administration
   The Humphrey Program is a Fulbright Exchange activity funded by the
   Department of State and administered by the Institute of International
   Education (IIE). Since 1978, more than 2,826 Fellows from over 120
   countries have participated in the program. IIE is one of the country's
   leading nonprofit organizations in the field of cultural and
   educational exchange. IIE assists the bureau in administering the
   program

   Host Institutions

   Humphrey host institutions are selected through a cyclical, competitive
   process. The list of current host institutions is available for
   viewing.
   hr
   For further information, contact:

   Humphrey Fellowships and
   Institutional Linkages
   Branch (ECA/A/S/U)
   U.S. Department of State
   SA-44, 301 4th Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20547
   202/619-5289
   or

   Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Division
   Institute of International
   Education (IIE)
   1400 K Street, N.W.
   Washington, D.C. 20005
   Phone: 202-326-7701
   Fax: 202-326-7702
   email: hhh@iie.org

   hr
   Top of page
