http://eob.gsfc.nasa.gov/MissionControl/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                         Missions

       About Mission Control
       OrbView-2
       TRMM
       Landsat 7
       QuikSCAT
       Terra
       EOS Aqua
       EOS Aura EO-1

   monitor The Mission Control presents information on current and planned
   Earth observing missions.

   spacecraft news
   Earth Observing-1 (EO-1) Launched Successfully!! - A Delta 7320-10
   carrying the EO-1 and SAC-C spacecraft lifted off from Vandenberg Air
   Force Base at 1:24 pm EST on November 21, 2000. After deployment from
   the second stage of the Delta, EO-1 will fly in a 705 km circular,
   sun-synchronous orbit at a 98.7 degree inclination.

   Terra: MODIS Direct Broadcast images now available - MODIS Direct
   Broadcast Images are now available on the web. These images are
   generated from data received directly from the MODIS instrument as the
   Terra spacecraft passes over NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in
   Greenbelt, MD.

   Spacecraft Overpass Predictions are now available for the Earth
   Observing satellite fleet and many other objects on-orbit!

   TRACK Earth Observing satellites with NASA/MSFC's J-Track utility.
   We're currently tracking Terra, Landsat-7, TRMM, OrbView-2 (SeaSat),
   and QuikSCAT.

   OrbView-2 OrbView-2

   The OrbView-2 spacecraft, also known as SeaSat, carries the SeaWiFS
   (Sea-viewing Wide Field-of View Sensor) instrument for remote sensing
   of ocean color.

   Current location & coverage information:
   SeaWiFS Location
   SeaWiFS Daily Coverage

   Latest Images:
   Global Biosphere

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   SeaWiFS Project
   OSC - Orbview 2

   TRMM TRMM
   (Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission)

   TRMM Fact Sheet

   Latest Images:
   Quick look data

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   TRMM Project
   TRMM Overpass Predictions

   Landsat Landsat-7

   Landsat 7 Fact Sheet

   Latest Images:
   Landsat 7 Browse Image Gallery

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   Landsat 7 Project

   QuikSCAT QuikSCAT
   (Quick Scatterometer)

   The QuikSCAT spacecraft carries the SeaWinds instrument for
   high-resolution remote sensing of near-surface winds over global
   oceans. QuikSCAT launched successfully on June 19, 1999, as a successor
   to the NASA Scatterometer mission.

   QuikSCAT Fact Sheet

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   QuikSCAT Project

   Terra Terra

   Terra launched aboard an Atlas-Centaur IIAS expendable launch vehicle
   from Vandenberg Air Force Base, California at 1:57 p.m. EST on December
   18, 1999.

   MODIS Direct Broadcast Imagery is now available - have a look at what
   the instrument sees as it passes over NASA/GSFC!

   You can view Terra launch and deploy animations - including new 3-D
   models of the Terra Spacecraft - in the Earth Observatory's Library.

   Terra Fact Sheet

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   Terra Home Page

   Aqua Aqua (formerly EOS PM-1)
   (Scheduled launch: no earlier than July 2001)

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   Aqua Home Page

   EOS Chem Aura (formerly EOS Chem)
   (Scheduled launch: December, 2002)

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   Aura Home Page

   EO-1 Earth Observing-1 (EO-1)

   A Delta 7320-10 carrying the EO-1 and SAC-C spacecraft lifted off from
   Vandenberg Air Force Base at 1:24 pm EST on November 21, 2000. After
   deployment from the second stage of the Delta, EO-1 will fly in a 705
   km circular, sun-synchronous orbit at a 98.7 degree inclination. It
   will follow along Landsat 7's ground track one minute behind Landsat 7,
   and will demonstrate new remote sensing technologies.

   View EO-1's launch on-line from one of the sites listed at NASA TV on
   the Web.

   EO-1 Fact Sheet

   Project, science, data, and satellite sites:
   EO-1 Project Home Page
