http://www.get.wa.gov/proginfo.htm

   [GET_program.jpg]
   [greenbar.jpg]
   [proginfo.jpg]
   [USEMAP:bottom.jpg]

     GET The Smart Way to Save
     For Your Children's College Education
     * Benefits
     * Eligibility
     * How GET units equate to tuition
     * Two Payment Options

     General Information
     The GET Program is an Internal Revenue Code Section 529 qualified
     state tuition program.  GET enables parents, grandparents, and
     others to prepay college tuition and mandatory service and
     activities fees -- for up to five years worth of higher education
     expenses.  GET is sold in units (100 units equal one full academic
     year's tuition at Washington's highest-priced public university).
     You can purchase just one unit or up to 500 units per beneficiary.

     A GET account can be used at any accredited public or private
     university, college, trade or technical school in Washington or
     throughout the country.

     The GET Program is open to a student of any age, as long as he/she
     is a resident of Washington at the time the account is opened.  The
     plan offers several payment options and significant federal tax
     advantages.  To enroll in the Program at this year's prices, you
     must sign up between September 15, 2001 and May 31, 2002.

     GET is sold in affordable "units."  For the 2001-2002 enrollment
     cycle, the cost of a GET tuition unit is $42.

     Fees associated with your GET account
     $50 enrollment fee; $100 maximum per family in the same household.

     Other fees/penalties
     $15 NSF/returned check payment fee
     $10 late payment fee (for custom monthly accounts only)
     $10 account cancellation fee
     Refund penalty for non-qualified use: 10 percent of earnings or $100
     (whichever is greater).  In addition, account earnings will no
     longer be exempt from federal taxes.  A 1099 form will be issued to
     the purchaser.  Administrative fees for refunds vary per contract
     year.

     Refund and Cancellation Policies
     A GET account may be cancelled under the following circumstances:
     * If the purchaser's request is within three working days after the
       GET Program receives the initial payment: the GET Program will
       return all of the money in the account, including the $50
       enrollment fee.
     * If no units have been purchased on the account within 90 days of
       its opening and the purchaser has not requested an extension from
       the Program: the account will be closed, and the enrollment fee
       will not be refunded.
     * If the purchaser request is within six months after the GET Program
       receives the initial payment: the GET Program will return all of
       the money in the account, except the non-refundable $50 enrollment
       fee.
     * If the purchaser requests and has paid $500 or less into his/her
       GET account: the GET Program will return all the purchaser's money,
       except the non-refundable $50 enrollment fee.
     * When authorized in accordance with RCW 28B.95.110.

     Refund Policy
     All refunds are made according to Washington statute (RCW
     28B.95.110).  You may request a refund after the account has been
     open for two calendar years.  The two years are determined from the
     date on which the GET Program receives the enrollment form and the
     enrollment fee.  (Exceptions to the two-year wait include refunds
     for death or disability of the student beneficiary, and financial
     hardship).  The $50 enrollment fee is non-refundable, except for
     accounts cancelled within three days.

     Refund Certification Form

     GET and federal income tax
     Contributions to a GET account are after-tax dollars and are not a
     deductible expense.

     Effective in tax years after December, 31, 2001, benefits paid from
     your GET account are tax-exempt when used for qualified educational
     expenses.  The increased value of your account may be taxable when
     used for non-qualified expenses or refunds, but is tax-deferred
     until distributed by GET.

     If you are eligible, you may receive a tax credit for each year your
     student is in school, either from the HOPE Scholarship Credit or the
     Lifetime Learning Credit.

     Please seek the advice of an attorney or tax professional concerning
     any financial, tax or legal implications related tot he purchase of
     a contract.  The GET Program cannot provide tax, financial, or legal
     advice.





                                 [seal.jpg]
                         Home | Program Information
   Frequently Asked Questions | Enrollment Information | Resource Library
                             Payout Information
