http://artemis.osti.gov/wamp1.html

  Congress of the United States

    House of Representatives

    Washington, DC 20515-4203

   U.S. Representative Zach Wamp

   [wamp.gif]

   [camera.gif] Rep. Wamp's Introductory Speech (9 Mbytes .mov)

   CONGRESS: U.S. Rep, Zach Wamp, R, Tenn., 3rd, was among 73 Republicans
   sworn into office on Jan. 4, 1995, as the GOP took control of the U.S.
   House for the first time in 40 years. Wamp, 37, was elected on Nov. 8,
   1994, recapturing a seat that had not been held by the Republicans in
   20 years. In Congress, Wamp was elected by his follow freshmen
   Republicans as their representative on the GOP Steering Committee. He
   was named to the Science Committee, the Transportation and
   Infrastructure Committee and the Small Business Committee. Congressman
   Wamp was also elected vice chairman of the Water Resources and
   Environment subcommittee, which oversees the Tennessee Valley
   authority, the government-owned electric utility that is a major
   federal institution in Rep. Wamp's home state.

   POLITICAL: Rep. Wamp began in politics as a precinct vice chairman and
   worked in Chattanooga Mayor Gene Roberts' first campaign. Wamp later
   was elected president of the Hamilton County Young Republicans. In
   1987, at age 30, he was elected chairman of the Hamilton County
   Republican Party, becoming the youngest person ever to hold the post.
   He was appointed regional director of the Tennessee Republican Party in
   1989, responsible for East Tennessee's 35 Counties.

   In 1992, Wamp won 78 percent of the vote in a three-way primary to
   decide who would run against 18-year incumbent Marilyn Lloyd in the 3rd
   District. He received 49.3 percent of the vote in the general election
   despite being out spent two-to-one. ln August 1994, Zach received 68
   percent of the vote in a four way primary. He won the general election
   by 10,000 votes, even capturing his opponent's home county.

   BUSINESS: Wamp worked in his family's architectural and development
   business and became vice president of Charter Real Estate Corp. in
   1989. In 1992, he joined Fletcher Bright Co. in Chattanooga as a
   commercial and industrial real estate broker. A recognized industry
   leader, Wamp sold more than $22 million worth of real estate in five
   years.

   PERSONAL: Wamp was born at Fort Banning, Ga., but grew up in
   Chattanooga where he attended McCallie School and was president of the
   student body and a standout athlete. He attended The University of
   North Carolina at Chapel Hill and The University of Tennessee.. Wamp
   and his wife, Kim, have a son, Weston, and a daughter, Coty. They
   belong to Red Bank Baptist Church.

   News Release

   [tosummit.gif]
