http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0730energybillgoestofloor.htm

   blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or
   Michael Correia (Michael.Correia@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   July 30, 2001

   Energy Development in the Arctic Makes Sense for Nations Jobs, Economy,
                         Security and Energy Future
      Passage of SAFE Act 2001 this week is a victory for all Americans

   Washington, D.C. America cant claim to have a sound energy policy
   without increasing its production of oil and gas, House Resources
   Chairman James V. Hansen announced today. House Republicans this week
   will consider legislation the Securing Americas Future Energy Act of
   2001 which recognizes that environmentally-sound energy production is
   absolutely necessary to ensure this nation enough energy for the
   decades to come.

   Chairman Hansen's statement:
   "I look forward to a vote this week on the most critical piece of
       energy legislation Congress has considered since it voted nearly 30
       years ago to build the TRANS-ALASKA PIPELINE SYSTEM. That pipeline,
       along with exploration in Prudhoe Bay, has pumped 14 billion
       barrels of critically-needed oil into our economy over the past 20
       years. It has stabilized consumer energy prices and created nearly
       a million jobs nationwide. It has been a boon to Arctic wildlife,
       which has flourished next to its warmth in the winter and under its
       shade in the summer.
       "Its time we stop dancing around the issue of energy production.
       More energy production is critical to this nations future just as
       it was essential to our past. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
       offers American consumers stable oil and gas prices, an
       urgently-needed natural gas supply and more than 735,000 new jobs
       at a time when our economy has tanked and headlines scream daily of
       thousands of new lay-offs.
       "Claims of harm to wildlife and plant life are nothing more than
       political machinations by environmental extremists who are far more
       interested in immediate political victories than they are in
       solving this nations energy problems. We have proven conclusively
       that wildlife flourish next to energy development including
       wildlife on other wildlife refuges where energy development occurs.
       Since we opened Prudhoe Bay near ANWR, the caribou herd there has
       increased five-fold.
       "The SAFE Act of 2001 is founded on conservation, research, greater
       use of alternative fuels and increased production of proven fuels.
       As the chairman of the committee who did the heavy-lifting on the
       production side of this equation, Im here to tell you that an
       energy bill without increased production isnt a solution; its just
       a bid to delay the inevitable crisis."

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
