http://wwwnwql.cr.usgs.gov/Public/ltmdl/ltmdlsplash.html

   [c_USGSid.gif]
   [nwqllink.gif]
   text only link

Long-Term Method Detection Levels and Laboratory Reporting Levels for
Selected Chemical Analyses in Water

   Quick Guide to Reporting Conventions
   [Choose a Water Year (WY)]
   Histograms and Charts
   Background
   The following pages provide long-term method detection level (LT-MDL)
   and laboratory reporting level (LRL) information. Take a quick glance
   at which schedules or lab codes have or have not been effected by the
   LT-MDL process. See the glossary for a list of abbreviations,
   classifications, and units. For the new reporting procedures, refer to
   Childress and others (1999) or start a tutorial to find conventions
   regarding the remark codes "estimate" (e) and "less than" (<) as
   applied to NWQL data. These LT-MDL concentrations are reevaluated
   annually for the most current quality-control data and are subject to
   change. To view historical laboratory reporting levels, refer to the
   Reporting Limits Information page.

   An LT-MDL is a detection level derived by determining the standard
   deviation of 20 or more MDL spike-sample measurements conducted over an
   extended time. Beginning in water year 2001 (WY01), non-parametric
   statistics were used to calculate the LT-MDL, with the resistant
   measure of data spread, Fpseudosigma, used instead of the standard
   deviation. Fpseudosigma is a defined as the interquartile range of the
   data divided by 1.349 (Hoaglin, D.C., Mosteller, F, and Tukey, J.W.,
   1983, Understanding Robust and Exploratory Data Analysis: John Wiley
   and Sons, New York, 447p.). LT-MDL data are collected annually to
   assess year-to-year variations in the LT-MDL. Yearly changes in LT-MDL
   and LRL values listed at this web site and in the National Water
   Information System database occur only if the LT-MDL data are different
   from the previous year as determined using 95% confidence limits.
   Beginning in WY01, year-to-year comparisons were made using Levene's
   test of equal variance at the 95% confidence level (the Levene's test
   is described in the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
   Engineering Statistics Handbook). The LT-MDL controls false positive
   error (reporting that an analyte is present when it is not in the
   sample at a concentration equal to or greater than the reporting
   level). The chance of falsely reporting a concentration greater than or
   equal to the LT-MDL for a sample that did not contain the analyte is
   predicted to be less than or equal to 1 percent.

   An LRL is generally equal to twice the yearly determined LT-MDL. The
   LRL controls false negative error (reporting that the analyte is not
   detected when present at or greater than the detection level). The
   probability of falsely reporting a nondetection for a sample that
   contained an analyte at a concentration equal to or greater than the
   LRL is predicted to be less than or equal to 1 percent. The
   concentration of the LRL will be reported with a "less than" (<) remark
   code for samples in which the analyte was not detected.

   The LT-MDL and LRL data in the following pages have been rounded to the
   least significant digit (LSD). The LSD is defined as the first real
   number (nonzero) to the right of the decimal point in the standard
   deviation (or Fpseudosigma beginning in WY01) of the LT-MDL spike
   samples. For example, a standard deviation of 0.0024 has the first real
   digit (the "two") in the one-thousandths place. The LRL and LT-MDL
   should be rounded to the one-thousandths place. The confidence ranges
   in the tables are presented to the "LSD plus one" digit. For example, a
   95-percent confidence range from 0.00792 to 0.01641 with a standard
   deviation in the one-thousandths place would be presented as 0.0079 to
   0.0164. Definitions may be adjusted as the LRL process is improved.


   CAPTION: Click a Subject Below for More Information!

   [vtutorial.gif] [vpublications.gif] [vblindspike.gif] [vdatatables.gif]
   Blind Blank Information
   [blockyhorizbar.gif]

   URL: http://wwwnwql.cr.usgs.gov/Public/ltmdl/ltmdl.html
   Page design by Brooke Connor
   This page is maintained by Delicia Beaty, dbeaty@usgs.gov
   Please contact me with comments or suggestions Last Modified: 12/05/01
