http://policy.house.gov/documents/statements/permtax.htm

            The House Policy Committee Christopher Cox, Chairman

                  Printer-friendly version in Adobe Acrobat

                  Policy Statement on Permanent Tax Relief

                              October 11, 2001

   New economic growth legislation should include permanent tax relief.
   On June 7, 2001, President Bush signed the Economic Growth and Tax
   Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, which included provisions of six
   permanent tax relief bills approved by strong bipartisan House
   majorities.[1]  Title IX of the Act, added by the Senate for procedural
   reasons, provides that no tax relief shall apply after December 31,
   2010.  Making this year’s tax relief permanent is an important step
   Congress can take today to improve long-term economic growth—and a
   vital step toward a fairer tax system.

        Helping Taxpayers by Repealing the Sunset

   Retaining the sunset in new tax legislation would cause a multi-billion
   dollar tax increase that targets those who can least afford it.  Under
   current law, the income tax rate for top earners will rise from 35% to
   39.6% on January 1, 2011.  Worse, on that same day, the rate paid by
   lower-income taxpayers would shoot up from 10% to 15%—a 50% tax
   increase on those who can least afford it.  The child tax credit,
   another provision critical to many lower-income taxpayers, would be
   halved, from $1,000 to $500.  The annual contribution limit on IRAs
   would plunge 60%, from $5,000 to $2,000.  Parents and children would
   lose many of the benefits of Coverdell Education Savings Accounts and
   qualified tuition plans.  Incentives for employer provided education
   assistance would disappear, while the marriage penalty would reappear.
   And the death tax—phased out by January 1, 2010—would return from the
   grave, fully re-grown to 2001 rates on January 1, 2011.

   The sunset is confusing and frustrating taxpayers today.  A New York
   Times columnist called the one-year repeal and immediate reinstatement
   of the death tax the “Throw Momma from the Train Act,” because the only
   way to create an effective estate plan is to die in 2010—the one and
   only year when the death tax is completely repealed.  Parents planning
   a child’s education are frustrated by tax law changes in the middle of
   the process.  Provisions meant to improve the economy and taxpayers’
   lives are instead complicating personal and government planning.

   Taxpayers are enduring needless complexity as they attempt to plan
   their pensions, their retirement accounts, their small business
   succession, and their children’s education.  On July 26, 2001, the
   House Policy Committee met with representatives of millions of
   taxpayers, senior citizens, small business entrepreneurs, employers,
   tax policy experts, and budget experts concerned about the pernicious
   effects of the sunset.  All found it impossible to establish a logical
   policy rationale for making the Economic Growth Act temporary.  The
   policy chaos caused by the sunset makes taxpayer planning more
   difficult and expensive.

   Even those who do not pay taxes suffer from the sunset.  Small
   businesses subject to a full-strength death tax in 2011 will be unable
   to protect the jobs of workers when the founder dies.  Sole proprietors
   worried about succession planning will be reluctant to expand their
   businesses because unless they die before 2011, marginal rates in
   excess of 50% will permit the IRS to confiscate more than half of the
   added value.  And all Americans lose because the effects of the sunset
   include reduced employment and investment, lower wages, limited
   economic growth, and therefore less federal revenue.

                Boosting Economic Growth and Federal Revenue

               Congress did not consider the effect of economic growth on
   revenue in passing this year’s Economic Growth Act.  The Staff Director
   of the Joint Committee on Taxation reported to the Policy Committee
   that the Joint Committee did not calculate the growth effect of lower
   tax rates in the Act—notwithstanding the clear intent of Congress
   manifested in the legislation’s title.  Nor did the Joint Committee
   calculate the reduction in growth caused by making the act temporary,
   notwithstanding empirical evidence that higher tax rates limit growth
   and revenue, while lower tax rates boost growth and revenue.

   Sunsets impair the growth Congress intends to create with economic
   growth legislation.  Twenty years ago, on a foggy morning at his Santa
   Barbara ranch, President Ronald Reagan sat at a rustic leather-covered
   table and signed into law the Economic Recovery Act, which included
   permanent tax relief reducing the maximum personal income tax rate from
   70% to 50% and reducing the tax rate on savings and investment (capital
   gains) from 50% to 20%.  Five years later, he signed legislation
   lowering rates again, reducing the income tax to just two brackets, 15%
   and 28%.

   Since President Reagan’s landmark rate reductions, employment, wages,
   and productivity soared.  Only the July 1990-March 1991
   recession—starting about the time that The New York Times first warned
   on July 12, 1990 that Congress and the Administration were considering
   raising the 28% rate to 31%—interrupted the longest sustained economic
   boom in American history.  In the past two decades, lower tax rates and
   the resulting economic growth helped kill record inflation.  The lower
   interest rates that followed made homeownership affordable for millions
   of Americans.  Federal tax revenue more than tripled, financing
   America’s Cold War victory over the Soviet Empire and, for good
   measure, freeing a billion people from totalitarianism.

   The U.S. tax rate structure has resulted in tax collections growing far
   faster than the economy itself.  The tax burden on Americans today is
   five percent higher than when President Reagan signed the Economic
   Recovery Act into law.  Federal revenue is at a record peacetime high,
   accounting for 21% of the economy, compared to 17.6% in 1993.  This
   flood of revenue and huge surpluses emboldened Congress to spend far in
   excess of the 1997 budget caps.  This large a slice of the economy
   hasn’t been taken by the federal government except for one other year
   in history.

   Today, thanks to record economic and revenue growth, we approach the
   new challenges of the 21^st century with an economy and a nation
   incomparably stronger than at the outset of World War II.  Instead of a
   decade-long Great Depression, the economic preface to the War on
   Terrorism is two decades of Great Expansion.  Notwithstanding emergency
   spending, the federal surplus remains larger than anyone predicted when
   America adopted President Reagan’s permanent tax relief.  However,
   economic challenges continue.  Social Security must be restructured to
   ensure its long-term solvency and Medicare requires new resources for
   prescription drug benefits.  Most immediately, a larger tax base will
   make the War on Terrorism more affordable.

   Permanently relieving today’s record tax burden will help reverse the
   slump in industrial production, manufacturing, and trade sales that
   began last fall.  The year 2000 saw 401(k) retirement funds losing
   money for the first time in their 20-year history.  At a bipartisan
   Congressional economic briefing September 20, economists noted that
   private sector GDP turned negative in first quarter 2001.  Business
   investment in equipment and software turned negative in fourth quarter
   2000.  Venture capitalists are investing less than half the amount they
   did last year to finance new employment and technical innovation and
   billions of dollars in investment capital have been shifted from
   high-return to low-return accounts—meaning it is being put to less
   productive and efficient use.  The National Association of Realtors
   reports that in the one major sector that remained strong well into
   2001, housing starts were down 7% from July to August; home sales
   plunged 50-70% in the days after September 11, and remain down 10% from
   previous levels; and home inventories are up despite cheaper
   mortgages.  “From the middle of 2000 to the middle of this year,” The
   New York Times reports, “the economy grew [at] the slowest 12-month
   pace in nearly 10 years.”

   The Federal Reserve is testing the limits of monetary policy.  Dr.
   Lawrence Lindsey, formerly a Federal Reserve Governor and House
   Congressional Policy Advisory Board member—and today the Assistant to
   the President for Economic Policy—warned about the danger of relying on
   monetary policy to offset the heavy fiscal burden on the economy 30
   months ago.  “Macroeconomic policy is placing an excessive reliance on
   monetary policy to sustain the current economic expansion,” Dr. Lindsey
   told the Senate Budget Committee, January 20, 1999.  His prescient
   concern manifested itself in negative market reaction to discount rate
   cuts on May 15, June 27, and August 21, 2001.  Nor could the September
   17, 2001, cut stave off record one-day dollar losses.

   Monetary policy—less permanent than fiscal policy—is incapable of
   supporting the economic growth necessary to raise adequate government
   revenue.  As Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Joint Economic
   Committee Chairman Jim Saxton have noted, Republican success at
   retiring federal debt will eventually have the ironic consequence of
   making monetary policy less effective by reducing the flexibility of
   open market operations.  The current edition of The Economist reports
   that “excess capacity and the heavy debt burdens of firms and
   households,” along with falling confidence, could limit the effect on
   demand of declining interest rates.  These facts make permanent fiscal
   policy for economic growth a vital necessity.

                  To remain the leader of the free world, the United
   States must promote economic growth at home through a policy of tax
   rate moderation.  Not only taxpayers, but all Americans and people
   throughout the world will benefit from permanently moderate tax rates
   with more jobs, higher wages, lower prices, greater economic
   opportunity—and more federal revenue.

                                The Solution

   Repealing the current tax relief sunset and avoiding sunsets in the
   future will help ensure the economic growth necessary to sustain a
   victory in the War on Terrorism.  Introduced by Reps. Kenny Hulshof
   (R-MO) and Paul Ryan (R-WI), H.R. 2316 strikes Title IX, the so-called
   “sunset” provision, from the Economic Growth and Tax Relief
   Reconciliation Act, making the tax law changes in the Act permanent.
   The House made its will obvious by making all of its original tax
   relief legislation permanent.  More than 40 Senators have already
   agreed to sponsor legislation to end the sunset in the Senate.  It is
   the policy of the House Majority to promote the objective of H.R. 2316,
   ensuring that economic growth and taxpayer fairness become permanent
   features of U.S. law.
   _______________________

   [1].  The six permanent tax relief bills approved by the House were:

   ·      H.R. 3, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Act of 2001, approved
   230-198, March 8, 2001 (reducing five income tax brackets to four: 10%,
   15%, 25%, and 33%)

   ·      H.R. 6, the Marriage Penalty and Family Tax Relief Act, approved
   282-144, March 29, 2001

   ·      H.R. 8, the Death Tax Elimination Act of 2001, approved 274-154,
   April 4, 2001

   ·      H.R. 10, the Comprehensive Retirement Security and Pension
   Reform Act, approved 407-24, May 2, 2001

   ·      H.R. 586, the Fairness for Foster Care Families Act, approved
   420-0, May 15, 2001 (treating payments from private and government
   foster care placement agencies equally)

   ·      H.R. 622, the Hope for Children Act, approved 420-0, May 17,
   2001 (expanding the adoption credit)

   The Senate combined and amended the bills, which became Public Law
   107-16.
