http://www.ocio.usda.gov/nitc/services.html

   Inside NITC            NITC banner
   Back to NITC Home Page OCIO Home Page USDA Home Page



   About NITC title


   divider
   back button Back to index

   Centralized Services Offered at NITC

   In 1972, the NITC began offering centralized computing services for
   other USDA agencies. Thanks to the economies of scale offered by that
   centralized direction, NITC has evolved into a leading edge operation
   serving 70,000 end users nationwide.

   Our six IBM CMOS mainframes run the OS/390 operating system. This 7x24
   environment, with a total capacity of 1,602 MIPS, has a long history of
   providing a reliable, secure foundation for interactive and batch
   processing. We install and support over 500 COTS (commercial
   off-the-shelf) products and manage approximately 14.1 terabytes of
   DASD. To relieve our customers of routine maintenance functions, we
   also provide other value-added services, such as continuous storage
   management, security administration, regular dataset backups,
   contingency planning/disaster recovery, and technical support.
   divider

   divider
   NITC also hosts a growing minicomputer-based mid-range environment.
   Platforms supported include IBM RS/6000, Hewlett Packard 9000, SUN
   SPARC systems, and Pentium-based servers. Operating systems supported
   include HP-UX, IBM-AIX, SUN-Solaris, and Windows 95/98/NT. NITC is
   working in partnership with customers to provide services leveraging
   the strength of mainframe technology in the mid-range environment by
   providing software tools and telecommunications protocols for
   centralized data warehousing and databases in an open systems
   environment.

   NITC offers multi-platform application and database development and
   maintenance. In addition to database administration and help desk,
   other capabilities include testing, system integration across multiple
   operating systems, and technical documentation.
     NITC Site Search= Menu Title The latest news from NITC Information
   about NITC Featured articles index page Customer notices - leaving site
   NITC phone directory - leaving site Customer Handbook - leaving site
   Directions from airport to NITC Listing of local hotels Selected links
   to other sites Guide to site content
       To top of page
     [1pix_black.gif]

     * Centralized Services Centralized Services
     * Telecommunications Telecommunications
     * Storage Management Storage Management
     * Tape Management Tape Management
     * Contingency Planning, Disaster Recovery Contingency Planning,
       Disaster Recovery
     * Database and Applications Development Services Agency Applications
       Services Division




                                 end of page
    You may contact the nitcwebmaster@ociofc.usda.gov regarding the NITC
                                  website.
                 http://www.ocio.usda.gov/nitc/services.html
                           Last Updated 12/14/2001
