http://www.inwg.cap.gov/ILS.HTM

                        Indiana Wing Civil Air Patrol

                       Legislative Squadron GLR-IN-999

                              Indianapolis, In


   Members:

   Senator (Major) Sue Landske-District 6;  Lake, Newton, Jasper
   [slandske.gif]   Homepage

   Senator (Major) Larry Lutz  District 49: Posey, Vandenburg, Gibson
   [llutz.gif] Homepage




   Senator (Major) Connie W. Sipes, District #46 New Albany [csipes.gif]
   Homepage

   Representative (Major) Jonathan Weinzapfel-Evansville [weinzapfel.gif]
   Homepage


   Civil Air Patrol Indiana Wing Legislative Affairs Contacts

   Colonel Glenn A. Kavich,  Wing Commander  ,PO Box 294; Greenville,
   Indiana 47124-0294;
   Phone: 812-923-33349 or E-mail address: gkavich@otherside.com

   LTC Michael V. Ney, Government Relations Advisor, 10233 Whispering Way;
   Indianapolis, Indiana 46239                                 Home: (317)
   862-1814 and Fax: (317) 274-7139 or E-mail address: mney@iupui.edu

   Major Karen Basham, Government Relations (Assistant Advisor) P.O. Box
   1164; Hammond, Indiana 46325                            Home:
   219-937-5987 or Pager: 219-660-3172 or E-mail address: n9wen@msn.com

   Captain Jeremy Reynolds, Public Affairs Officer, Indiana Wing Civil Air
   Patrol , PO Box 151; Gwynneville, Indiana 46144      Phone:
   765-763-8100 or E-mail address: drperrier@jjrco.com


   Information regarding membership:

      Members of the State Legislative Squadron are active members of
   Civil Air Patrol.  They get membership cards.  They may fly in our
   aircraft.  They may ride in our vehicles.  They receive the CAP
   News. One of the only things that separate them from regular Civil Air
   Patrol members is the fact that they do not have to complete the FBI
   Fingerprint Card or pay membership dues.



       One approach that has been found effective in recruiting
   legislators is what I am calling the "Inductee Approach."   Senators
   and Representatives will be more receptive to the concept of being
   inducted into a elite group than just becoming a regular member of
   Civil Air Patrol.  Do not approach the subject and try to sell them a
   membership.  We need not waist our time that way.  It is much more
   effective to have the attitude that the decision is already made and
   all they have to do it complete the CAPF 12 to officiate their
   induction.  Essentially that is what we are doing.  We are inducting
   them into CAP in an honorary position.  Every State Legislative
   Squadron inductee is awarded the honorary grade of Major and is due the
   respect that grade holds for as long as they are in office.



       It is important to understand that it may be necessary for only
   those members of Civil Air Patrol 18 and older attempt this.  It is not
   that legislators don't care about or listen to minors, it is just that
   some may be more receptive to voters unless, of course, you know them
   personally.  Steps you can take:

    1. Compose a letter:  Depending on your position, compose a letter on
       squadron/flight or wing letterhead in CAP official business-style
       letter format (consult your CAPR 10-1).  In the letter state
       something to the effect of 'It is my pleasure to inform you that
       Indiana Wing Civil Air Patrol is proud to have selected you as the
       State Representative/Senator for my district as the next inductee
       into the Indiana Wing State Legislative Squadron.'  Go on to list a
       couple of the benefits and perks of his/her induction and remember
       to close the letter professionally and respectfully.  Make sure you
       list all the Attachments and Cc's listed below if you include them.
    2. CAPF 12:  Include a partially computer completed CAPF 12.  You know
       their name, Charter Number (GLR-IN-999), sex, and member most
       responsible for them joining (you - make sure you insert your CAPID
       and not your CAPSN).  In the Employer line put "INDIANA GENERAL
       ASSEMBLY," and in the Position line put "STATE SEN DIST ##," or
       "STATE REP DIST ##" respectively.  Make sure to note in the above
       letter that the FBI Fingerprint card and membership dues are not
       necessary.  Reassure them that all information is held in the
       strictest of confidence!
    3. Other Attachments:  Include a couple "goodies."  Additional
       information is important.  Don't try to tell them all about CAP in
       the letter.  You need to keep that brief, concise and to the point
       of their induction.  Use the CAP Fact Sheet and some Brochures to
       speak for you.  Understand that you are not recruiting them into
       your own squadron and that information personalized as such will
       initially be unimportant to them.  You have to understand that they
       are looking out for their professional image and want to know what
       kind of organization their are going to be affiliated with.  Try to
       use official CAP literature if at all possible.  It improves your
       credibility.
    4. Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope:  Make sure you include this.  It
       may sound minor and petty, but it helps ease their workload.  If
       you think about it, it is much easier to just fill out the CAPF 12
       and stick it in an already addressed and stamped envelope and
       through it in a mailbox, than have to hunt down an envelope and go
       out and buy some stamps just to send off this application.  Besides
       34¢ is not going to break you.  Address the envelope to the Wing
       Commander, he handles all State Legislative Squadron matters, there
       is no Squadron Commander.  Place your address in the Return Address
       portion and the Wing Commander's address in the Addressee's place:
       Glenn Kavich, Col, CAP,  P.O. Box 294,  Greenville, IN
       47124-0294.  That way, if it gets misdirected (heaven forbid) it
       won't get lost and you can fax it or re-mail.
    5. Cc:  Cc a copy of your letter to the Wing Commander
    6. Business Card:  Try to include a CAP or personal business card if
       possible in case they have any questions and so that your contact
       information lingers long after the letter is round filed.
    7. MAIL IT:  Priority mail is best.  Try to use the flat 12½" x 9½"
       Priority Mail Envelope so you don't have to fold anything.  Nothing
       looks more professionally tacky than an overstuffed No. 10
       Envelope.  Priority mail will run you about $3.25 to $3.50
       depending on weight.  If you don't think that Priority mail is
       worth your money (I resent that as a former Postal Worker) then
       just send it First Class, again try to use a flat envelope.  This
       will run you 55¢ to $1.00 depending on the weight.  Whether you use
       Priority or First Class you need not Register it, but you may want
       to utilize Delivery Confirmation
    8. NOW PLAY THE WAITING GAME...  The ball is in their court now.

       This is not necessarily the uniform way to recruit a state
   legislator, but merely a method that may be used for those people who
   feel they may not have a clue how to get started.  Understand that
   professionalism is paramount and we want to convey an excellent first
   impression.  Coordinate with other members in your district.  The last
   thing we need is every state legislator receiving five or six letters
   all wanting to induct him, especially if he/she already has been.  One
   letter should suffice, you work out the recruiting credit, not the
   legislator.  This is one time you may want to think about "sweating the
   small stuff."



       Once they have returned the application follow up with a welcome
   letter and send your appreciation for their timely response.  Reassure
   them they should be hearing from National Headquarters in a 2-4 weeks
   and that they should start receiving the CAP News.  It is always nice
   to invite them to local unit meetings and social activities so as to
   make them feel part of the organization.  As members of Civil Air
   Patrol, treat them as one of your own.



       If you don't know who your state legislator are visit Access
   Indiana on the World Wide Web at http://www.in.gov/legislative/.  Look
   for both house and senate state district maps to find your district.
   You most likely do not live in ther same house and senate
   districts (for instance, I live in House District 76 and Senate
   District 49).  Then go through the Senate and House pages.  They are
   separated by political party to find the homepage of your senator and
   representative.  It should have their mailing address on there.  Most
   of them will probably have the Statehouse address: Statehouse, 200 West
   Washington Street, Indianapolis, IN  46204-2785.  This address will
   work.


                                                       Last Updated
   :01/11/2002
