http://www.orea.ca.gov/html/disclaimer.shtml

                    Welcome to California California Home
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree


                                  OREA Home

                                 About OREA

                              Find an Appraiser

                            Laws and Regulations

                            License Requirements

                            Temp Practice Permits

                                 Reciprocity

                                    Forms

                                  Education

                                 Enforcement

                                    FAQ's

                              OREA Publications

                               Press Releases

                                 Contact Us

                                     Map

                               Privacy Notice

                               Customer Survey

                                Related Sites


                              __________ search
                           ( ) My CA (*) This Site

                                 DISCLAIMER
                          Return to OREA Home Page

                           Disclaimer of Liability

    The Office of Real Estate Appraisers(OREA) assumes no responsibility
         for anyone's improper or incorrect use of OREA's  homepage
    information.  In no event shall OREA be held liable on any theory of
      liability for damages or injury of any type resulting from use of
        OREA's system or homepage information, even if advised of the
    possibility of such  damage or injury.   This disclaimer of liability
      applies to all claims for damages or injury, including,  but not
     limited to:  failure of performance, error, omission, interruption,
   deletion, defect, delay in  operation or transmission, computer virus,
   or unauthorized access to or alteration of data, whether for  breach of
     contract, tortious behavior, negligence or under any other cause of
                                   action.

      Disclaimer of Warranties/Accuracy of Data/External Links/Duty to
                                  Continue

     Content on OREA's web pages is produced from sources believed to be
        reliable. No warranty expressed or implied is made regarding:
          accuracy, adequacy, completeness, legality, reliability,
      merchantability,  fitness for a particular purpose, freedom from
    contamination by computer viruses, or usefulness of any  information.
     All warranties of any kind, express or implied, including, but not
   limited to, the implied  warranties of non infringement of proprietary
                           rights ARE DISCLAIMED.

       OREA is not responsible for the contents of any off-site pages
       referenced from OREA's web pages.  OREA is  not liable for the
     defamatory, offensive, or illegal conduct of other users, links, or
   third parties and that  the risk of damage or injury from the foregoing
                        rests entirely with the user.

     OREA, unless statutorily required, has no continuing obligation to
       provide information on its  homepages. Content that is free and
   publicly available may one day be eliminated, restricted, or require  a
    fee. The location of items may change as menus, homepages, and files
      are reorganized. OREA does not  warrant that the service will be
                        uninterrupted or error free.

                          Disclaimer of Endorsement

       OREA sometimes distributes data supplied by third parties. Any
    opinions, advice, statements, services,  offers, or other information
    or content expressed or made available by third parties, are those of
     the  respective author(s) or distributor(s) and not necessarily of
                                    OREA.

      Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or
   service by trade name, trademark,  manufacturer, or otherwise does not
     constitute or imply endorsement, recommendation, or preference  by
    OREA, and such reference shall not be used for advertising or product
                            endorsement purposes.

                                Choice of Law

      Construction of the disclaimers above and resolution of disputes
        thereof are governed by the laws of the State of California.

                                Return to Top



           Contact Us | Find an Appraiser | License Requirements |
                            Temp Practice Permits
           Reciprocity | Forms | Education | Enforcement | FAQs |
                            Laws and Regulations
      Newsletter | Press Releases | About OREA | Map | Customer Survey
         California Home Page | Governor's Home Page | Related Sites
                                  BTH Logo

                      OREA Disclaimer    Legal Presence
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
