http://www.ftpeck.ihs.gov/history.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

                        Chiefs_sm1.gif (41703 bytes)
                           baryell.gif (447 bytes)
                    HISTORY OF THE FORT PECK RESERVATION


   Welcome to the Fort Peck Indian Reservation and the home of the
   Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of Montana. The history of the Fort Peck
   Reservation was born out of a complex series of reservation periods,
   warfare, and the steady migration of both Indian and white people to
   the area. The present day boundaries of the reservation were
   established by an act of Congress on May 1, 1888. The reservation is
   located in the extreme corner of northeast Montana and comprises an
   overall land base of 2,093,318 acres (approximately 3,200 square
   miles). Of this area, approximately 378,000 acres are tribally owned
   and 548,000 acres are individually allotted Indian lands. Total
   Indian-owned land on the reservation is 926,000 acres, less than half
   of the reservation land base. The Fort Peck Reservation is 110 miles
   long and 40 miles wide with the Missouri River serving as the southern
   boundary.


                             Reservation History

   The history of the reservation and its people, begins in 1851 at Fort
   Laramie in Wyoming where the tribes of Montana and Dakota territory,
   which included the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes, negotiated with the
   United States Government for land and peace. Out of this "Great
   Council" territories were assigned and the Assiniboine originally
   claimed land south of the Missouri River (or south of the present day
   reservation). Sioux territory comprised most of Dakota Territory, or
   what is now the states of North and South Dakota.

   In 1855 and again in 1874, the Blackfeet tribes were assigned a
   territory north of the Missouri River, which extended east from the
   Rocky Mountains to an area that would become the western boundary of
   Montana. The establishment of this area for the Blackfeet is
   significant as bands of Assiniboine and Sioux people were either
   assigned to the territory or recognized as having common hunting rights
   on the land, particularly the Sioux who were migrating into the area as
   political exiles from Dakota Territory and the Minnesota Wars of 1862.
   During this period, large numbers of Sisseton, Wahpeton, and Wahpekute
   Sioux bands primarily under the leadership of Standing Buffalo and
   Yanktonais and Yankton Sioux bands under the leadership of Medicine
   Bear, Strike the Rees, Red Thunder, Black Catfish, and other principle
   leaders, moved into the area.

   Meanwhile, the Sioux again at Fort Laramie, signed another treaty in
   1868 creating the "Greater Sioux Reservation," in Dakota Territory.
   Repeated violations of this treaty by the United States Government
   would eventually lead to the famous Battle of the Little Bighorn in
   1876, where General George A. Custer and most of his men would lose
   their lives. The numerous fights between the Sioux and the United
   States Army before and after this battle would lead to the migration of
   additional Sioux bands (Tetons) into the present Reservation Area.

   There were numerous Assiniboine bands already living in the area during
   this time of conflict, warfare, and rapid change. The area was prime
   buffalo country but that would soon change as white buffalo hunters
   moved into the area and began to slaughter the animals by the
   thousands. By 1883, the buffalo had disappeared from their northern
   range and the life style of the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes changed
   dramatically. It was also during this same period that the Assiniboine
   Tribe lost without "just compensation" the territory outlined by the
   original 1851 Fort Laramie Treaty. Through a series of actions and
   without the consent of the Assiniboine, Congress in responding to
   pressure from white ranchers and settlers, opened the original
   reservation for settlement.

   Finally on May 15, 1886, Congress in an effort to stabilize the area,
   attached a rider to the Indian Appropriations Act and authorized the
   Commissioner of Indian Affairs to begin negotiations with the Tribes of
   the territory. Led by Major Larabee, the Northwest Indian Commission,
   traveled during one of the harshest winters on record to the area and
   met separately with the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes to establish the
   Fort Peck Indian Reservation. Meanwhile, white representatives of
   Montana Territory were busy lobbying Congress to remove all of the
   tribes from the territory. On the final document, 137 Assiniboine with
   Redstone as the chief signatory and 263 Sioux with Medicine Bear as the
   chief signatory authorized the present reservation agreement.

                                 The People

   The Fort Peck Reservation is home to two separate warrior nations, each
   composed of numerous bands and divisions. Descendants of six of the 33
   bands of Assiniboine came to reside at Fort Peck. These are: the Canoe
   Padddlers, Rock Band, Red Bottom Band, Cree Speakers, Fat Horse and
   Canoe Paddlers of the Prairie. More bands may have settled here,
   however, division over the presence of their ancient enemies the Sioux,
   lead many to move and settle farther west of Fort Peck to the Fort
   Belknap Reservation. The Sioux on the Fort Peck Reservation represent
   all of the divisions of this great nation. The largest group to settle
   on the reservation is the Cuthead Yanktonais bands under the leadership
   of Medicine Bear, Strike the Rees, and other principle men. The
   Sisseton, Wahpeton, and Wahpekute bands of Sioux migrated to the area
   from the Minnesota Wars. And, bands of Teton Sioux also settled the
   area after the Battle of the Little Bighorn.

   Today, there are over 10,000 tribally enrolled members, of whom
   approximately 6,000 reside on or near the reservation. The major
   population areas are located in six reservation communities along the
   southern border on U.S. Highway 2 near the Missouri River. Traveling
   east to west these are: Fort Kipp, Brockton, Poplar, Wolf Point,
   Oswego, and Frazer, MT. The two tribes adopted their first written
   constitution in 1927, but replaced it with a new constitution in 1960.
   The official governing body of the Tribes is the Tribal Executive Board
   which is composed of twelve voting members, plus a Chairman,
   Vice-Chairman, Secretary-Accountant, and Sergeant-At-Arms. All members
   of the governing body, except the Secretary-Accountant, are elected at
   large every two years. Tribal headquarters are located in Poplar,
   Montana.

   Employment Facilities Communities History Education Housing Recreation

             Send any comments or suggestion about this site to:
                      webmaster@bilb2.billings.ihs.gov

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Wednesday May 30, 2001  2:04 PM
