http://www.nbc.gov/products/web.html

                       NBC Home Page NBC Advertisement
     NBC Home Page NBC Products and Services NBC News NBC Employees NBC
                             Contact Us NBC Help
                                   red bar



   site navigation
   Products & Services
   Accounting Operations
   Acquisition Services
   ADP Services
   Business Opportunities
   Contract Administration
   Creative Communication
   Services
   DOI University
   Drug & Alcohol Testing
   Electronic Commerce
   Employee and Public Services
   Enhanced Fixed Assets
   Executive Information Services
   Federal Financial System
   Federal Payroll System
   Fiscal Services
   Hyperion Enterprise via Citrix
   Independent Validation and
   Verification Services
   Legacy Plus
   Momentum
   Organization Development
   Performance Support Services
   Procurement Systems
   Time and Attendance System
   Travel Manager
   Web Development and Hosting
   Online Demonstrations
   NBC Presentations
   NBC Inquire 21 Demo

                    Web Development and Hosting Services


     The National Business Center (NBC) offers a full range of complete
   Internet solutions to support your web-enabled businesses. The NBC Web
   Development Team uses the most advanced technologies (ColdFusion, HTML,
      Java, JavaScript, Oracle Application Server, and XML) to produce
      accessible, effective and, innovative web solutions. Our team can
       assist you in the initial site planning and share with you our
                                 experience.

   To provide you with the best-customized web solution and meet all your
      requirements, our web services include but are not limited to the
                                 following:

     Web Design and Development: NBC professionals will develop web sites
   from its conception, data base design, coding/programming, quality
   assurance testing, to its final layout.

     Web Site Hosting: NBC can provide your organization with all the
   necessary server space to store web sites and web-based applications.

     Web Site Management (System Administration): NBC provides production
   maintenance services, including traffic monitoring and analysis,
   content updates, and server upgrades.

     Web Customer Support: NBC can be your customers' first point of
   contact with site-related email. We can handle technical site-related
   questions and forward other requests to you.

     Web Training: We offer all levels of site-related training, from
   simply using the site advanced system development and administration.

      Besides the services referred above, our team will cover all the
    security issues to make your web solution secure, reliable, and 24/7
                                 available.

                                  NBC Site
     Best Feds on the Web The Web Development Team at NBC created a new
     design for the National Business Center in 1999. The new design was
   selected as one of 1999's Best Fed's on the Web by Government Executive
     Magazine. The judges evaluated nominations based on three different
    criteria: providing excellent customer service to the public, the use
     of new technology, and using the web to improve business practices.

      One of the most amazing things about this accomplishment was the
    timeframe the team had to develop the new site. The NBC Web Team was
    able to create, code and test the new site in just under 30 days. Now
                         that's a quick turn around!

                                New NBC Site
    Attractive and useful, the 1999 NBC site design was at the certainly
    one of the best government sites on the web. However, Congress passed
    an accessibility act requiring that Federal agencies' electronic and
      information technology be accessible to people with disabilities,
        including employees and members of the public. The Javascript
    technology used on the NBC site made this very difficult and the Team
     decided to go with a totally new design. So this is it! Let us know
                      what you think of our new design.

                               Recreation.gov
   Please see our recent News article for details on our responsibilities
                as System Administrators for Recreation.Gov.

                                  IDEAS EC
   The Web Team also came up with some very attractive graphic images for
                    the Business Opportunities web site.

                                 Inquire 21
   NBC's Electronic Commerce for the twenty-first century (EC 21) product
   suite will play an important role in helping government agencies reduce
       their paperwork burden. By developing applications which can be
    tailored to specific needs NBC gives its clients the ability to meet
   the demands of an increasingly paperless government and free the agency
    from the burden of developing its own strategy. Look for more details
                         on this in our newsletter.

                            Greening the Interior
    Currently the NBC web team is developing an environmental website for
     the Department of Interior. Its mission is to conserve, restore and
     protect our Nation's natural and cultural heritage. The site, will
        consist of several databases and track agency acquisitions of
                     environmentally friendly products.

                    Request For Information (RFI) System
    Recently Keith Stewart, of the NBC Web Team, single-handedly designed
   an online Request For Information (RFI) system. The web-site presented
     potential vendors with a secure environment to respond to over 300
   multiple choice technical questions and provide additional comments for
    each. Keith designed the application using ColdFusion. Look for more
             details on this on-line RFI in our next newsletter.

                 Modernization of the Main Interior Building
   Recently the NBC web team was requested to develop a website that would
   track the modernization effort of the Main Interior Building. The Main
     Interior building was constructed during 1935 and 1936. Much of the
    building's infrastructure is original and in need of major repair and
   alteration. This modernization effort is expected to last 9 years. The
    web site will hold up-to-date information on the project schedule and
                               implementation.

                       Online Credit Card Application
       The NBC web team has developed an Online credit card processing
     application that enables agencies to authorize, process and manage
             credit card transcations in an online environment.

                                YourLand.gov
       NBC has developed a prototype where citizens can gain access to
    environmental conditions, land use, land management, recreational and
   commerical activities of federal land. Through this prototype, citizens
       can have access to information about public lands and that will
      encourage democratic participation in shaping public land-use and
                           land-management policy.
        Expected launch of the site is scheduled for October 1, 2000.

         For additional information, please contact Charles Nethaway

   Home  | Text  | Search  | Policies  | Directions  | Site Map
