http://www.seaway.dot.gov/Cruise%20Brochure.pdf

   CRUISING THE GREAT LAKES ST. LAWRENCE SEAWAY SYSTEM Produced by U.S.
   Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation Washington, D.C. Tel.:
   (800) 785-2779 or (202) 366-0091 WWW.GREATLAKES-SEAWAY.COM REDISCOVER
   THE ST. LAWRENCE SEAWAY AND THE GREAT LAKES: AN ATTRACTIVE CRUISE
   MARKET In 1997, the first foreign-flag cruise provinces (Quebec and
   Ontario). vessel in 22 years transited the The cities found here are
   home to Demographics of Americans Living Around the Great Lakes/ Great
   Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway many of North America's finest St. Lawrence
   Seaway System. That vessel, Hapag- museums and other cultural Lloyd's
   400-passenger luxury cruise attractions, and provide world-class 25
   U.S. cities over 100,000 ship C. Columbus, has returned shopping
   opportunities that are residents within 100 miles every year since
   1997, and other second to none. (160km) of a Great Lakes port; cruise
   ships have followed. Since 29 Percentage of U.S. population 1997, the
   number of cruise Another factor sparking the residing in the region;
   passengers traveling the System resurgence of cruise shipping in the 30
   Percentage of U.S. personal has increased dramatically from Great Lakes
   is the highly favorable income distributed in the eight Great Lakes
   states and 1,500 to 14,000. There are many demographics of this wealthy
   region 31 Percentage of U.S. population reasons why the Great Lakes are
   of North America. While many of over 65 residing in the eight an
   attractive cruise destination for the passengers cruising the Great
   Great Lakes states. small to mid-sized cruise ships, and Lakes today
   are European, North it's not hard to understand why there Americans,
   too, are increasingly These figures pertain to the U.S. side has been a
   renewed interest in choosing Great Lakes Seaway of the border, but they
   are cruising the Great Lakes. cruises as vacations. The comparable for
   the Canadian portion enhanced desire of these North of the region as
   well. A major factor is the vast natural Americans to explore their own
   beauty and cultural diversity of backyard in this luxurious manner
   borders. Shore-side access to these inland seas and waterway may not
   come as much of a surprise health facilities is state-of-the-art, that
   stretch almost 2,300 miles when you consider the real median which is a
   comforting fact to many (3,700km) from the Atlantic Ocean income of
   households in the region senior travelers. Cruise operators to the
   prairie and encompass over reached all-time highs in 1999. and
   passengers have appreciated 10,000 miles (16,000km) of Moreover, people
   in the eight states the warm welcome and support they picturesque
   shoreline. Some of surrounding the Great Lakes and have received in the
   Great Lakes North America's largest cities and the St. Lawrence Seaway
   spent Seaway System. For instance, quaintest villages are located on
   the nearly 43 percent more on domestic when the C. Columbus paid its
   first shores of the Great Lakes and St. travel than the people in other
   visit to the Port of Duluth in 1997, a Lawrence River. The scores of
   states. local crowd of 10,000 met the ship. ports and harbors that hug
   this vast shoreline serve as gateways to Many passengers, North
   American The Systems' navigation season eight U.S. states (Illinois,
   Indiana, and European, cruise veterans as typically runs from early
   April Michigan, Minnesota, New York, well as novices, describe a sense
   through the end of December. Ohio, Pennsylvania, and of security that
   comes from sailing Generally, cruise vessels find the Wisconsin) and
   two Canadian in sight of the U.S. and Canadian months of May to
   mid-October to be the most favorable for their voyages. Safety is our
   paramount consideration, and throughout the season, cruise operators
   welcome the efficiency and reliability of Seaway lock operations. We
   ensure that the highest safety standards for ships and navigation are
   constantly maintained, and this is at the heart of the System's
   excellent overall safety record. There are many compelling reasons for
   cruising the Great Lakes St. John and Ann Mahan Lawrence Seaway System.
   We are committed to making your voyage through our inland seas a smooth
   and memorable experience. We welcome the opportunity to serve you and
   invite you to contact us at the address and number provided on the
   cover of this brochure. John and Ann Mahan www.sweetwatervisions.com
   INFORMATION AND SERVICES TO HELP YOU CRUISE THE SEAWAY AND GREAT LAKES
   To ensure a rewarding and trouble- Canadian and U.S. requirements
   require special fittings such as free visit, the U.S. Saint Lawrence
   and procedures that apply to cruise fenders, moorings and anchors, and
   Seaway Development Corporation ships transiting the System. For a must
   not exceed the maximum (SLSDC) and the Canadian St. copy of the manual
   contact the permitted air draft of 35.5 meters Lawrence Seaway
   Management SLSDC (1-800-876-2889) or visit: (116.5 feet). Moreover,
   protrusions Corporation (SLSMC) offer of any portion of the vessel must
   be assistance to individuals and www.greatlakes-seaway.com kept to a
   minimum. Maximum companies that bring passenger vessel draft through
   the Seaway cruise ships into the System. We Initially, it's important
   to know that and most channels and major publish a technical manual of
   due to locks and bridges found in harbors throughout the Great Lakes
   Seaway regulations designed for the System, no vessel larger than is 8
   meters (26 feet 3 inches). The easy use by operators of passenger 225.5
   meters (740 feet) in overall maximum draft in some of the vessels
   sailing the System. Written length and 23.7 meters (78 feet) in smaller
   ports and harbors is in plain language, the manual breadth can enter
   the System. All significantly less. The maximum provides information on
   the cruise ships entering the System draft in certain channels may vary
   slightly due to seasonal influences. TRANSIT TIMES The SLSDC and SLSMC
   offer a vessel drawing review service Montreal to Lake
   Ontario----------------------------------------- 24 Hours free of
   charge. Operators may Lake Ontario (Tibbetts Point to Port
   Weller)------------------14 Hours submit two copies of the general Port
   Weller (Lake Ontario) to Port Colborne-----------------12 Hours
   arrangement, mooring and Port Colborne (Lake Erie) to Port
   Huron--------------------- 20 Hours anchoring cross sections in way of
   Montreal to Port Colborne---------------------------------------- 47
   Hours mast and super structure and the Montreal to
   Toledo------------------------------------------------- 63 Hours lines
   drawing. Seaway personnel Montreal to
   Milwaukee-------------------------------------------101 Hours will
   review the drawings and provide Montreal to
   Chicago----------------------------------------------107 Hours comments
   and recommendations. Montreal to
   Duluth------------------------------------------------112 Hours We urge
   our customers to take advantage of this service prior to first entry
   into the System. The regulations, or an explanation, Lakes. Radar
   checks are Operators avoid unnecessary may be obtained from the SLSDC
   conducted to ensure adherence to delays by adopting any needed or the
   U.S. Coast Guard Marine these limits. modifications prior to arrival.
   Safety Detachment in Massena, N.Y. (315)-764-3284. The Seaway provides
   a tie up There are several types of bridges service for vessels
   dispatched to within the Seaway. Operators may The St. Lawrence Seaway
   entities secure to an approach wall either find, when reviewing the
   block require inspection of every foreign above or below a lock. This
   negates diagram in the Seaway Handbook, flagged vessel prior to its
   first transit the requirement to install and that their vessel does not
   comply. of each navigation season. This maintain landing booms. The fee
   Again, please let the Seaway inspection is typically conducted in is
   $500 for Montreal-Lake Ontario entities review the drawings. They
   Montreal, Quebec. Inspection items and $500 for the Welland Canal (in
   compare them to individual bridge include Seaway fittings, port state
   Canadian funds) . drawings since the block diagram control items such
   as lifesaving is a composite drawing. equipment and marine sanitation
   All foreign vessels and U.S. and devices and ballast water as Canadian
   vessels engaged in Because passenger vessels are mentioned above. There
   is no fee foreign trade are required to engage usually more susceptible
   to the for the inspection if conducted a U.S. or Canadian registered
   pilot effects of wind, those sailing the during regular business hours,
   for the duration of a transit through Seaway and the Great Lakes take
   otherwise there is a $600 the System. In the United States, the "sail
   area" into account, along (Canadian) fee assessed. the USCG's Office of
   Great Lakes with other factors such as bow and Pilotage is the entity
   responsible for stern thrusters, controlled pitch Most passenger
   vessels are overseeing pilotage matters. In propellers, twin screw, and
   so on. capable of considerably faster Canada, the Great Lakes Pilotage
   Cruise Ship operators recognize speeds than are permissible in a
   Authority, Ltd., is responsible. that weather delays due to high few
   areas of the Seaway. There are winds occasionally occur. speed
   regulations set down for The SLSDC and SLSMC stand some of the confined
   waters of the ready to help make your transit The U.S. Coast Guard
   (USCG) has St. Lawrence River and Great pleasant and problem free.
   issued mandatory regulations for controlling ballast water in the Great
   Lakes. Ballast water exchange is mandatory for any vessel carrying
   ballast water entering the Great Lakes from a foreign port. This
   exchange must take place at least 200 miles from shore and in depths of
   water at least 2,000 meters. Ballast water is always checked to ensure
   acceptable salinity levels. John and Ann Mahan
