http://clear.search.gov/notes/2001-02-16.txt

   Clearinghouse Partnership Meeting Notes February 16, 2001 National
   Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS), Washington,
   D.C. Notes submitted by Marcia Christian Attendees listed at end of
   document The major agenda topics and presenters in this meeting were: A
   Comprehensive Assessment of Public Information Dissemination (Woody
   Horton, NCLIS) E-Government: A View from the Hill (Kevin Landy, Senate
   Government Affairs Committee) Geospatial and E-Government (John
   Moeller, FGDC) FedSearch and FirstGov (David Binetti, Federal Search
   Foundation) A Curriculum for Government Information Specialists (Steve
   Maradian, Middle Georgia College) XML and Semantic Registers (Tom
   Clark, Extensibility.Com) UDDI - Universal Description, Discovery, and
   Integration (Chris Kurt, Microsoft) New work proposal: Directory of
   Agencies and Services (Eliot Christian, USGS) Welcoming Remarks: Dick
   Griffin, interim executive secretary, welcomed 40 attendees to the
   first Clearinghouse meeting since the new Administration took office.
   He anticipates enthusiasm and funding will be directed toward
   Clearinghouse projects and agency programs advocating enhanced
   information technology. Bob Willard, Executive Director of NCLIS,
   introduced the NCLIS organization and its recent activities. The
   Commission is composed of 14 members appointed by the President, with
   the advice and consent of the Senate, plus the Librarian of Congress
   and the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. NCLIS
   was established in 1970 as a permanent, independent advisory group to
   the Executive and Legislative branches. NCILS advises on national
   policy pertaining to the library and information needs of the American
   people. The goal is equal opportunity of access to information for all
   citizens. NCLIS provides data analysis through its Library Statistics
   Program. Recent reports have covered the growth of the Internet, and
   the effectiveness of Internet connectivity via public libraries. NCLIS
   has also addressed concerns over the Internet as a possible source of
   inappropriate materials for youth. Presentation by Woody Horton, NCLIS:
   A Comprehensive Assessment of Public Information Dissemination In 1999
   the Department of Commerce recommended closing the National Technical
   Information Service (NTIS) on the basis that emerging electronic
   information dissemination was making NTIS financially unsound. This
   raised interest in obtaining a broader assessment of the underlying
   issues and how all government agencies were being impacted. Senators
   John McCain and Joseph Lieberman requested NCLIS to study and make
   recommendations on possible reforms to the federal government's public
   information dissemination practices. The resulting comprehensive report
   was released in January 2001. Volume 1 is available in print and also
   in electronic form at /www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.vol1.pdf>.
   Volumes 2 through 4, which contain additional appendices and
   supplementary materials, are available electronically. Based on
   findings and conclusions thoroughly detailed in the report, the
   Commission sets forth thirty-six recommendations. They are all listed
   in the Executive Summary. The first five strategic recommendations are:
   1) Adopt the national goal that public information is a strategic
   resource 2) Establish the Public Information Resources Administration
   (PIRA) 3) Include broad, explicit public information dissemination
   authority in all agencies missions 4) Implement an Information
   Dissemination Budget 5) Enact "The Public Information Resources Reform
   Act of 2001" Woody said that Congressional committees will be
   referencing this report during hearings in which these issues will be
   debated publicly. Woody made himself available to answer any questions
   that may arise from this report. Presentation by Kevin Landy, Senator
   Joseph Lieberman's staff: E-Government: A View from the Hill Senator
   Joseph Lieberman, as Ranking Democrat on the Senate Committee on
   Governmental Affairs, is fully engaged on the issues of public
   information dissemination. He has been working closely with Senator
   John McCain, Chair of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and
   Transportation. Together they initiated a web site to solicit public
   input on e-government. The principle concerns of Senator Lieberman are
   1) to put more information and services on-line for public use, 2) to
   improve operations within the government, and 3) to make government
   more understandable and responsive to the public. The Senator's office
   will be honing recommendations into legislation and seeking broad
   Senate support. Legislation may include the creation of a Federal CIO
   within OMB who would report to the OMB Director and oversee issues of
   privacy, security, and the promotion of e-government. Kevin also noted
   the possibility of a task force to combine efforts of DOI and NIST. He
   cited the need for government-wide protocols and open standards in the
   realm of Geographic Information Systems (GIS). He also sees the need to
   further index Government sites. The role of the Federal Depository
   Library Program and a possible Online National Library will also be
   included in legislative discussions. In response to questions, Kevin
   said he expects there will be significant funds made available for
   cross-agency work. This could be in excess of $100 million. Kevin
   envisions the new CIO position to be a political appointment by the
   President and confirmed by the Senate. Presentation by John Moeller,
   staff director FGDC: Geospatial and E-Government John outlined the
   vision and progress of the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC). He
   hopes that government plans can build on existing projects and
   partnerships. In order to be robust, e-government needs to be spatially
   enabled. FGDC grew out of an OMB initiative. A key concept is to build
   data sets once and re-use many times. The program has generated
   collaborative efforts among states, local and federal organizations who
   deal with geospatial data collection. In the U.S. Federal Executive
   branch at the Cabinet level, there are currently 17 agencies involved
   in FGDC, under leadership of the Department of the Interior. The use of
   metadata and open standards has made it possible for FGDC to establish
   280 geospatial nodes. These nodes are searchable within themselves and
   one can also search across all or subsets of nodes in the National
   Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI). NSDI has established partnerships
   with many other organizations, including the National League of Cities,
   the National Association of Counties, the Intertribal GIS consortium,
   etc. With such partnerships, the full infrastructure encompasses
   several thousand partner organizations. On the international level,
   there are spatial infrastructures either planned or active in 40
   nations at this time. John expects that within 3 or 4 years there will
   be an active Global Spatial Data Infrastructure in place. Some of the
   major FGDC projects and sources for further information are as follows:
   NSDI/Federal Geographic Data Committee /www.fgdc.gov> Global Spatial
   Data Infrastructure /www.gsdi.org> Open GIS Consortium
   /www.opengis.org> Global Disaster Information Network
   /www.gdin.international.org> Global Map /www.gsi.go.jp> International
   Standards Organization /www.iso.ch> John also mentioned that finance
   and investment issues are being addressed as part of the OMB GeoSpatial
   Implementation Initiative. (see /www.fgdc.gov/I-Team.html> Presentation
   by David Binetti, CEO of Federal Search Foundation: FedSearch and
   FirstGov David explained that Federal Search Foundation, FedSearch, is
   the non-profit entity started by Eric Brewer (cofounder of Inktomi) in
   order to donate search engine technology to the U.S. Federal
   Government. The Government's FirstGov project team does all front end
   development to interface with users. FedSearch contracted with Inktomi
   to provide their search engine and large scale text-based spider
   technology. FedSearch has built a searchable index of web pages in the
   U.S. Federal government Internet domains. There are about 30 million
   documents in the index and the index is refreshed every two weeks. The
   immediate goal of FedSearch is to improve relevance. They will do this
   by experimenting with configuration files and also by educating federal
   webmasters about search techniques. By August 2003, FedSearch is to be
   finished with their contractual obligation to GSA and they will cease
   to exist. Presentation by Steve Maradian , Middle Georgia College: A
   Curriculum for Government Information Specialists Steve and his team
   surveyed the education field and found a real need to develop a
   curriculum that would prepare a next generation of "information
   architects" and government information specialists. The program needs
   to address both content management and applications management. Library
   science will provide essential background in the proposed curriculum.
   Steve anticipates funding from the Department of Education in order to
   offer a 4 year program that would be available on the Internet as well
   as at a residential site. Presentation by Tom Clark, TIBCO
   Extensibility: XML and Semantic Registers Tom discussed the newly
   available "XML Canon" product. It helps customers maximize use of XML
   schemas (technical specifications for sets of XML documents and
   databases) and to manage subsets of corporate XML assets. For instance,
   a corporation's Human Resources division may use a publicly shared
   schema such as HR-XML. The goal is that a shared repository of common
   definitions be established and maintained in order to facilitate the
   customer's internal and external usage of schemas and associated data
   definitions. Eliot Christian suggested that governments would want
   standards-based registries, and that these should be configurable as a
   "registry of registries". For example, a government-wide registry would
   point to rather than subsume existing registries in areas such as
   health care, transportation, geospatial, or environmental data. More
   information on XML and Registries can be found at
   /www.extensibility.com>. Presentation by Chris Kurt, UDDI.ORG and
   Microsoft: UDDI - Universal Description, Discovery and Integration
   Chris works for Microsoft and is also general program manager for the
   UDDI organization. Chris explained that UDDI is a very fast growing
   industry-wide initiative to enhance support of web services. UDDI
   launched in September, 2000 and there are already 210 organizational
   members committed to participate. Major computer corporations such as
   Microsoft, Sun, IBM, and Intel have agreed to take advantage of UDDI
   and forgo competition at this level of technology. UDDI allows
   businesses and other organizations to describe the services they offer
   so that these can be discovered and integrated to deliver aggregated
   services over the Web. UDDI supports very precise schemas for business
   descriptions. UDDI registry entries are based on unique identifiers.
   They can be thought of as analogous to telephone directory White Pages,
   Yellow Pages, and Green Pages. UDDI itself builds on popular technology
   such as XML, HTTP, TCP/IP, and SOAP/XP. However, UDDI technology is
   platform and protocol neutral, as are all of the services that may be
   described using UDDI. For more information on UDDI, see /www.uddi.org>.
   Proposal by Eliot Christian ,USGS: New Clearinghouse work on a
   Directory of Agencies and Services Eliot suggested that a Clearinghouse
   team be chartered to explore, experiment with, and make recommendations
   about issues and technologies surrounding the need for an authoritative
   and network-accessible Directory of Agencies and Services. He noted
   that there is already a prototype technology bridge between UDDI and
   GILS, and that there are many useful sources for the basic data
   concerning the top 1500 or so organizations in the U.S. Federal
   Government. For such a registry to be authoritative, it will have to be
   established and maintained collaboratively across government branches.
   John Shuler, University of Illinois-Chicago, volunteered to lead the
   new Clearinghouse team. He is asking that anyone else with resources
   and/or comments become part of the team. Expectations are that this
   will be an 8 to 12 month project, with a report back to the
   Clearinghouse Partnership in 3 months. Announcement: Anne Craig
   announced the 3rd Annual State GILS Conference. It will be held in
   Springfield, Illinois on March 27-30. One focus will be on
   interoperability of "subject trees" among state libraries. Please
   contact her for more information or find the Web page at
   /states.gils.net>. The Clearinghouse Meeting adjourned at 12:15.
   Attendees: Owen Ambur, Department of Interior Don Arnold, e-Gov Oliver
   Bell, Microsoft David Binetti, Federal Search Foundation Tom Bold,
   National Defense Technical Information Service Eliot Christian, United
   States Geological Survey Marcia Christian (taking notes) Paul Christy,
   Department of Commerce Tom Clark, TIBCO Extensibility Nancy Davenport,
   Library of Congress Blaine Dessy, Department of Justice Patrick Fowler,
   Environmental Systems Research Institute Fred Frederick, Department of
   Labor Tom Freebairn, General Services Administration Dick Griffin,
   Department of Labor Colleen Hope, Department of State Woody Horton,
   National Commission on Libraries and Information Science Chris Kurt,
   Microsoft Kevin Landy, Senate Government Affairs Committee Steve
   Maradian, Middle George College David McMillen, House Government
   Affairs Committee Bill Miller, United States U.S. Geological Survey
   John Moeller, Federal Geographic Data Committee Kurt Molholm, Defense
   Technical Information Center Judith Newton, National Institute of
   Standards and Technology Paul Nixon, Sea Change Pat O'Neill, AIH Group
   Bob Paget, Inktomi Corporation Bill Pulsipher, GRCI Mark Reichardt,
   Open GIS Consortium Margie Reynolds, Microsoft Charlie Rothwell,
   Centers for Disease Control Marion Royal, General Services
   Administration Judy Russell, National Commission on Libraries and
   Information Science Seema Shappelle, Environmental Protection Agency
   Sandy Schwalb, Government Printing Office John Shuler, University of
   Illinois - Chicago Keith Thurston, General Services Administration Bob
   Willard, National Commission on Libraries and Information Science Those
   who participated by conference call: Bruce Cahan, Urban Logic Inc. Anne
   Craig, State GILS Consortium Kevin Donovan, Environmental Protection
   Agency
