http://www.coastalconservancy.ca.gov/terms.htm


   TERMS OF USE
   The user agrees that the following terms apply to use of this website:

   Disclaimer of Liability
   Neither the California State Coastal Conservancy nor its directors,
   officers, employees, agents, or contributors shall be held liable for
   any improper or incorrect use of the information described and/or
   contained at this website, and none of them assumes any responsibility
   for anyones use of the information. In no event shall these parties be
   liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or
   consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement or
   substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or
   business interruption), however caused and on any theory of liability,
   arising in any way out of the use of this system, even if advised of
   the possibility of such damage. This disclaimer of liability applies to
   any damages or injury, including but not limited to those caused by any
   failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion,
   defect, delay in operation or transmission, computer virus,
   communication line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access
   to, alteration of, or use of record, whether for breach of contract,
   tortious behavior, negligence, or under any other cause of action.

   Indemnification
   The user agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the State
   Coastal Conservancy, its contributors, any entity jointly created by
   them, their respective affiliates, and their respective directors,
   officers, employees, and agents from and against all claims and
   expenses, including, without limitation, attorneys fees, arising out of
   the use of the on-line service by user or users account.

   Disclaimer of warranties/accuracy of data
   Although the data found at this website has been produced and processed
   from sources believed to be reliable, no warranty, expressed or
   implied, is made regarding accuracy, adequacy, completeness, legality,
   reliability or usefulness of any information. This disclaimer applies
   to both isolated and aggregate uses of the information. The State
   Coastal Conservancy provides this information on an as is basis. All
   warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited
   the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
   purpose, freedom from contamination by computer viruses and
   non-infringement of proprietary rights are DISCLAIMED. Changes may be
   periodically made to the information at this site; these changes may or
   may not be incorporated in any new version of the publication. If the
   user has obtained information related to this website from a source
   other than this website, the user should be aware that electronic data
   can be altered subsequent to original distribution. Data can also
   quickly become out-of-date. The user should pay careful attention to
   the contents of any metadata associated with a file, and should contact
   the originator of the data or information with any questions regarding
   appropriate use. If the user finds any errors or omissions, we
   encourage him or her to report them to the State Coastal Conservancys
   webmaster (crossley@scc.ca.gov).

   Disclaimer of endorsement
   The State Coastal Conservancy is a distributor of content sometimes
   supplied by third parties and users. Any opinions, advice, statements,
   services, offers, or other information or content expressed or made
   available by third parties, including information providers, users, or
   others, are those of the respective author(s) or distributor(s) and do
   not necessarily state or reflect those of the State Coastal
   Conservancy.  The information available at this website shall not be
   used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.  Reference to any
   specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name,
   trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply
   endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the State Coastal
   Conservancy.

   Disclaimer for Hypertext Links
   Neither the State Coastal Conservancy nor its contributors is
   responsible for the contents of any off-site pages referenced. The user
   specifically agrees that neither the State Coastal Conservancy nor its
   contributors is liable for the defamatory, offensive, or illegal
   conduct of other users, links, or third parties; and that the risk of
   injury from this cause rests entirely with the user.  Links from the
   State Coastal Conservancy on the World Wide Web to other sites do not
   constitute an endorsement by the State Coastal Conservancy. These links
   are provided as an information service only. It is the responsibility
   of the user to evaluate the content and usefulness of information
   obtained from other sites.

   Disclaimer of Duty to Continue Provision of the Data
   Due to the dynamic nature of the Internet, resources that are free and
   publicly available one day may require a fee or restrict access the
   next, and the location of items may change as menus, homepages, and
   files are reorganized. The user expressly agrees that use of the
   website is at the users sole risk. Neither the State Coastal
   Conservancy, its contributors, any entity jointly created by them,
   their respective affiliates, and their respective directors, officers,
   employees, and agents, third party content providers, nor any licensor
   warrants that the service will be uninterrupted or error free.

   Choice of Law
   Use of the website, construction of the terms of use, above, and
   resolution of any disputes related to or arising out of them, is
   governed by the laws of the State of California.

   Return to Coastal Conservancy Index
