http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/geoscience_smr_final.pdf

   Preliminary Earth & Planetary Science Subject Matter Requirements
   Domain 1. Earth's Place in the Universe Candidates understand how
   Earth-based and space-based astronomy reveal the structure, scale, and
   changes in stars, galaxies, and the universe over time, and how
   astronomy and planetary exploration reveal the solar system's
   structure, scale, and change over time. They base this understanding on
   their knowledge of the characteristics and properties of phenomena such
   as galaxies, stars, and bodies of the solar system. 1.1 Galaxies and
   Stars a. Identify and describe characteristics of galaxies b. Explain
   the evidence for the "big bang" model c. Know that the Sun is a typical
   star and is powered by nuclear reactions, primarily the fusion of
   hydrogen to form helium d. Describe the process of the nuclear
   synthesis of chemical elements and how accelerators simulate the
   conditions for nuclear synthesis (i.e., in stars and in the early
   universe) e. Compare the use of visual, radio, and X-ray telescopes to
   collect data that reveal that stars differ in their life cycles f.
   Describe, in terms of color and brightness, how the evolution of a star
   is determined by a balance between gravitational collapse and nuclear
   fusion 1.2 Solar Systems a. Know the relative location of the solar
   system in the Milky Way galaxy, which spans 105 light years b. Explain
   how the solar system was formed, including differences and similarities
   among the sun, terrestrial planets, and the gas planets, and cite the
   evidence from Earth and moon rocks that indicate that the solar system
   was formed approximately 4.6 billion years ago c. Be aware of current
   evidence for the existence of planets orbiting other stars d. Describe
   changes in the solar system over time 1.3 Planets and Satellites a.
   Cite various forms of evidence that indicate the proximity of the
   planets in the solar system in relation to Earth and the stars b. Cite
   various forms of evidence that Earth and other planets change over time
   c. Describe the influence of collisional processes on early Earth and
   other planetary bodies in terms of shaping planetary surfaces and
   affecting life on Earth d. Illustrate how Kepler's Laws demonstrate
   planetary motion Domain 2. Planet Earth Candidates demonstrate an
   understanding of the dynamic processes of the solid Earth, oceans, and
   the atmosphere. Candidates understand how plate tectonics operating
   over geologic time have changed the patterns of land, sea, and
   mountains on Earth's surface. Science, Earth 1 Candidates also
   understand the dynamic processes that operate in and among the
   atmosphere, oceans and other water bodies, and the biosphere. They
   understand how life has changed Earth's atmosphere, and how changes in
   the atmosphere affect conditions for life. Candidates apply their
   knowledge of dynamic Earth processes to make predictions and form
   conclusions about surface phenomena such as earthquakes. 2.1 Tectonic
   Processes a. Diagram the major divisions and subdivisions of the
   geologic time scale as a basis for understanding changes in the Earth's
   processes b. Describe how earthquake intensity, magnitude, epicenter,
   focal mechanism, and distance are determined from a seismogram c.
   Compare major types of volcanoes in terms of shape and chemical and
   rock composition d. Describe the location and characteristics of
   volcanoes that are due to hot spots and those due to subduction e.
   Relate geologic structures to tectonic settings and forces f. Describe
   the evidence for plate tectonics on the sea floor and on land 2.2
   Oceans a. Describe the chemical and physical properties of sea water b.
   Discuss the origin of the water in and on the Earth c. Describe the
   mechanisms that cause wave action and tides d. Analyze the processes
   occurring in coastal waters, marginal seas, and estuaries in terms of
   chemical composition, formation, and stratification e. Compare
   sea-level changes due to natural fluctuations and those due to human
   activity f. Explain the layered structure of the oceans, including the
   generation of horizontal and vertical ocean currents and the geographic
   distribution of marine organisms, and how properties of ocean water,
   such as temperature and salinity, are related to these phenomena 2.3
   Atmosphere a. Compare the layers of the atmosphere in terms of chemical
   composition and thermal structure b. Discuss the evolution of Earth's
   atmosphere over geologic time, including the effects of outgassing, the
   variations of carbon dioxide concentration, and the origin of
   atmospheric oxygen c. Cite the evidence for the evolution of Earth's
   atmosphere d. Know the location of the ozone layer in the upper
   atmosphere, explain its role in absorbing ultraviolet radiation, and
   explain the way in which this layer varies both naturally and in
   response to human activities e. Describe the origin and nature of
   temperature inversions f. Identify the bands at specific latitudes
   where rainforests and deserts are distributed and the causes of this
   pattern Science, Earth 2 Domain 3. Energy in the Earth System
   Candidates understand how energy enters, flows through, and leaves the
   Earth system, and the relationship between energy transfer and the
   dynamic processes of the Earth system. They base this on knowledge of
   how energy enters the Earth system primarily as solar radiation and
   eventually escapes as heat, and how heating of Earth's surface and
   atmosphere by the sun drives convection within the atmosphere and
   oceans, producing winds and ocean currents. Candidates apply their
   knowledge of dynamic Earth processes to make predictions and form
   conclusions about surface phenomena such as climate. 3.1 Earth's Energy
   Budget: Inflow and Outflow a. Compare the amount of incoming solar
   energy, the Earth's internal energy, the energy used by society, and
   the energy reflected back to space b. Describe what happens to incoming
   solar radiation as it relates to reflection, absorption, and
   photosynthesis c. Analyze the effects of atmospheric processes and
   composition on the Earth's energy budget (inflow and outflow) d.
   Explain the mechanism and evaluate the significance of the greenhouse
   effect e. Differentiate among greenhouse conditions on Earth, Mars, and
   Venus; the origins of those conditions; and the climatic consequences
   of each 3.2 Circulation in the Oceans and Atmosphere a. Assess the
   differential effects of heating on circulation patterns in the
   atmosphere and oceans b. Relate the rotation of Earth to the circular
   motions of ocean currents and air in low- and high-pressure centers c.
   Compare the causes and structures of various cloud types,
   precipitation, air masses, and fronts, and the causes and effects of
   different types of severe weather d. Know and explain features of the
   ENSO cycle (El Niño southern oscillation, including La Niña) in terms
   of sea-surface and air temperature variations across the Pacific, and
   climatic results of this cycle 3.3 Climate Variations in Time and Space
   a. Analyze weather (short-term) and climate (over time) in relation to
   the transfer of energy into and out of the atmosphere b. Discuss and
   assess factors that affect climate including latitude, elevation,
   topography, and proximity to large bodies of water and cold or warm
   ocean currents c. Evaluate changes in Earth's climate over time as they
   relate to changes in Earth's land mass distribution, atmospheric
   composition, and other factors, such as solar radiation and plate
   movement d. Explain how computer models are used to predict the effects
   of the increase in greenhouse gases on climate for the planet as a
   whole and for specific regions, and interpret data to support the
   models Science, Earth 3 Domain 4. Biogeochemical Cycles Candidates
   demonstrate an understanding of how each element on Earth moves among
   reservoirs, which exist in the solid earth, in oceans, in the
   atmosphere, and within and among organisms as part of biogeochemical
   cycles. Candidates understand how the movement of matter among
   reservoirs is driven by Earth's internal and external sources of
   energy. 4.1 Rock Cycle a. Compare and contrast the properties of rocks
   based on physical and chemical conditions in which rocks are formed,
   including plate tectonic processes b. Describe the characteristics of
   common rock-forming minerals (e.g., feldspars, quartz, biotite,
   calcite) c. Describe the characteristics of ore minerals as sources of
   copper, iron, lead, zinc, cement, halite, gypsum, and uranium 4.2
   Water, Carbon, and Nitrogen Cycles a. Illustrate the mechanism that
   drives the water cycle b. Compare the processes of photosynthesis and
   respiration in terms of reservoirs of carbon and oxygen c. Identify the
   carbon reservoirs (i.e., physical and chemical forms of carbon in the
   atmosphere, oceans, biomass, soils, fossil fuels, and solid earth) and
   describe the movement of carbon among these reservoirs in the global
   carbon cycle d. Describe the relative residence times and flow
   characteristics of carbon in and out of carbon reservoirs e. Describe
   the nitrogen cycle as it relates to the atmosphere, soils as
   reservoirs, life processes, and pollution Domain 5. California Geology
   Candidates understand that the geology of California underlies the
   state's scenic diversity and wealth of natural resources as well as its
   natural hazards. Candidates are familiar with the geology of
   California, and are aware of the unique opportunities for field
   experiences in the state. Candidates describe activities using geologic
   maps that illustrate processes, location, and scale of phenomena.
   Candidates also describe field experiences that include the basic
   elements of geologic mapping to record and interpret the history of
   geological processes portrayed in California. 5.1 Tectonic Evolution a.
   Interpret geologic maps as a basis for understanding the tectonic
   evolution of California in terms of plate margins (i.e., Atlantic-type
   passive margin, Japanese volcanic arc, Andean arc, and faulted margin)
   5.2 Major Economic Earth Resources a. Understand the importance of
   water to society, the origins of California's fresh water, statewide
   water distribution, and the environmental and economic impact of water
   re-distribution Science, Earth 4 b. Describe resources of major
   economic importance in California and their relation to California's
   geology (e.g., oil, gas, gold, sand, gravel, salts, open space, soil,
   arable land, clean air) c. Evaluate the possible consequences of the
   use of nonrenewable and renewable natural resources 5.3 Surface
   Processes a. Assess mechanisms by which tectonics, geologic structures
   (i.e., folds and faults), and rock properties influence surface
   properties (e.g., flow of water, differential erosion, uplift,
   subsidence) b. Discuss the factors controlling the influence of water
   in modifying the landscape c. Interpret the factors controlling
   erosion, deposition, and transport in surficial processes d. Evaluate
   the potential impact of coastal processes on humans e. Appraise desert
   environments in terms of water resource needs for habitation 5.4
   Natural Hazards a. Describe principal natural hazards in different
   California regions and the geologic basis of those hazards b. Analyze
   published geologic hazard maps of California and know how to use maps
   to identify evidence of geologic events of the past and to predict the
   likelihood of geologic changes in the future 5.5 Geologic Mapping a.
   Know how to find position using a topographic map b. Know how to make a
   geologic map showing faults, structural data, and contacts between
   formations c. Know how to interpret geologic history and processes from
   a geologic map Science, Earth 5
