http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/news-release/releases/2002/02-009.htm

   [spacer.gif]

   Contact:
   William Steigerwald
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
   Phone: 301/286-5017

   [spacer.gif] NASA News Header [spacer.gif]

   Jan. 8, 2002 - RELEASE NO: 02-009

   NEWLY DISCOVERED SUBCLASS OF "LOCAL" GAMMA RAY BURSTS MAY SOLVE A
   MYSTERY OR TWO

   Although scientists have believed for some time that most gamma-ray
   bursts are very distant, a Goddard scientist has discovered 100 of them
   that are quite "local," within 325 million light years from Earth.

   These nearby events -- whose sheer number and proximity has taken
   scientists by surprise -- represent a new subclass of gamma-ray bursts,
   the most powerful known explosions in the Universe. They may appear as
   frequently as certain star explosions called Type Ib/c supernovae; they
   could be a source of detectable gravitational radiation; and their
   presence could explain the existence of ultrahigh-energy cosmic rays.

   Jay Norris of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md.,
   presented these results at the 199th Meeting of the American
   Astronomical Society in Washington, D.C.

   Norris' work is based on the analysis of over 1,400 gamma-ray bursts.
   These bursts -- frequent and random, powerful and mysterious -- fade so
   quickly that scientists have been unable to determine the source of the
   bursts. Most gamma-ray bursts last from only a few seconds to about a
   minute. The afterglow can linger in X-ray, optical and radio wavebands
   for a few days to weeks.

   "Gamma-ray bursts may come from merging black holes or neutron stars,
   or from the collapse of theorized massive stars tens to hundreds of
   times more massive than the Sun," Norris said.

   Norris and his colleagues at Goddard had previously uncovered a
   relationship between the distance to a burst, its luminosity, and its
   so-called "lag time." In any given burst, the high-energy gamma-ray
   photons (particles of light) arrive at Earth-orbiting detectors
   slightly faster than the lower-energy gamma-ray photons. This "lag
   time" in photon arrival is the result of the physics of the burst.

   More luminous bursts seem to have shorter lag times. Comparing the
   intrinsic burst luminosity (the actual brightness, determined by photon
   lag times) with the measured luminosity (how bright the burst appears
   to Earth-orbiting gamma-ray detectors) yields a distance to the source.

   By characterizing gamma-ray bursts in terms of lag time and luminosity,
   Norris could determine that most of the 1,437 archived burst profiles
   he studied came from bursts with high luminosities originating at
   cosmological distances, billions of light years from Earth, as
   scientists have long suspected.

   However, about 100 bursts were of lower luminosity. Norris speculates
   that these kinds of bursts are created by the collapse of massive
   stars, perhaps 10 to 50 times as massive as the Sun. These bursts seem
   to concentrate in an oblate distribution towards the Supergalactic
   Plane, an imaginary plane that slices through several galaxy clusters
   within about 325 million light-years from Earth.

   This plane follows the local matter distribution, and no one had
   detected such clustering of gamma-ray bursts along this plane before
   this analysis. If the bursts originated from this region, this could
   explain the origin of ultrahigh-energy cosmic rays, yet another
   longstanding mystery. Thus far, scientists have been hard-pressed to
   explain the presence of these cosmic rays, which are atomic particles
   moving at near light speed carrying the kinetic energy of a major
   league fastball.

   Scientists might be able to confirm this new subclass of local
   gamma-ray bursts with LIGO, a ground-based gravitational wave detector
   funded by the National Science Foundation. LIGO theoretically could
   detect the ripples in spacetime caused by collapsing stars within
   several hundred million light years from Earth.

   NASA's Swift Gamma Ray Burst Explorer, scheduled for 2003 launch, could
   also confirm the existence of these nearby bursts. Swift will have
   imaging capability and the sensitivity to see these bursts -- which are
   lower in energy, less luminous, have longer lags compared to bursts at
   cosmological distances, and have been difficult to detect thus far.

   Swift can also quickly determine the precise location of the bursts. If
   the bursts are associated with Type 1b/c supernovae, they would appear
   just before the supernovae, which would provide scientists with
   advanced warning to witness the entire supernovae event.
