http://www.tsi.dot.gov/privacy.htm

   boarder graphic   boarder graphic   boarder graphic

   boarder graphic  TSI Privacy Statement

     TSI home Link Campus location Link Hotel location Link Division Link
   Web Resources Link

       tsi links text graphic
       bullet Our Director

       bullet Associate
            Director

       bullet Services

       bullet Division
            Managers

       bullet Instructors

       bullet Training
            Facilities

       bullet Privacy          Statement
   tsi connected graphic

Collection and Use of Information

     * Anonymous Browsing - If you do nothing during your visit but browse
       through this web site, read pages, download information, browse our
       catalog or class schedule as a guest, we will collect and store
       certain information about your visit automatically.  This
       information does not identify you personally. We use the collected
       information to count the number of visitors and pages visited to
       help make our site more useful to you.  We in no way share this
       information any other government or non-government organizations.
       We automatically collect and store only the following information
       about your visit:
         1. Your internet domain and Internet protocol (IP) address.  Your
            internet domain is the company, private party, or public
            Internet Service Provider (ISP) used for internet access.  The
            IP address is the number assigned to your computer
            automatically by your ISP when accessing the internet.
         2. Type of browser and operating system used to access our site.
         3. Date and time you access our site.
         4. Pages you visit on our site.
         5. If you linked to another website from our site.
     * Logged Browsing - If you have taken any classes or want to enroll
       at TSI you are entitled to add, view, and update your personal
       information.  This portion of our website has been secured for your
       privacy.  You are required to logon to this portion of the site
       using a social security number or employee code and a password. If
       this is your first visit you must register with our site using a
       registration form.  You will be assigned an employee code and you
       will select a password.  Once you have registered with our site
       your personal information is stored in our database.  All personal
       information is used for internal TSI use only and is not shared
       with any other government or non-government organization.  During
       your visit to you will receive a cookie.  This cookie is used only
       to store session variables used in the application only. (A cookie
       is a file stored on your machine and used to recognize returning
       users, track online purchases, provide custom web pages, and
       temporarily store session variables.)  The database in which your
       information is stored is not directly connected to the internet to
       greatly reduce the threat of hacker attacks and located in a secure
       room to reduce the threat of internal misuse.

   boarder graphic
