http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/at_home.html

   Technology Transfer Program - At Home with NASA

   Home

   Search
   Marshall Capabilities
   Partnerships
   Innovator's Corner
   Business Opportunities
   Working with Marshall
   Small Business Programs
   Technology Spotlight
   In-house Programs
   Technology Opportunities
   Facilities Commercialization
   Software Opportunities
   Publications
   Success Stories
   Patents/Licenses
   Other Links
   Site Map

   Blue Bar
   How does NASA technology affect your life? The benefits of America's
   space program can be found just about everywhere!

   This Web site provides a down-to-Earth look at what the space program
   has done for you, your neighbors, America and the world. Explore these
   pages and feel at home with NASA technology!
   Blue bar

   House At Home

   NASA technology is a guest in our home everyday through home
   improvement, appliances and home safety.

Museum In the Museum

   Along with dinosaurs and artifacts, you will find NASA technology at
   work in museums.

Hospital At the Hospital

   From a more accurate thermometer to a treatment for brain cancer, NASA
   technology has provided the medical community with advancements in
   medical care.

Farm On the Farm

   From crop improvements to a mother for baby pigs, NASA technology has
   made strides on the farm.

Mall At the Mall

   A trip to the mall can bring you face to face with space technology.
   These spinoffs range from sunglasses to facial makeovers.

Fire At the Firehouse

   Improved firefighting and rescue equipment has evolved out of the space
   program.

Stadium At the Stadium

   When you cheer for your favorite team, include NASA! Technology from
   the space program provides many benefits to the sports world.

Science For Science

   Virtual reality and other scientific advancements were made possible
   through NASA technology.

Plane At the Airport

   Contributions from the space program have impacted the safety of
   airports.

Earth For Humankind

   NASA technology is at work to make the Earth beautiful and safe for
   everyone.
