http://www.ihs.gov/CIO/InfoTech_index.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

   Information Technology Resources

   IHS News Announcements Starts Here.

   ·  Click here to view a text version of the marquee
   All Current IHS News items
   can be viewed in text format.
   Browse IHS Links Here.

   Item 1 Whats New On This Site
   Item 2 Frequently Asked Questions
   Item 3 Find An I H S Employee
   Item 4 I H S Calendar
   Item 5 My I H S Portal
   Item 6 Current I H S Issues At  INFO.IHS.GOV
   Key I H S Links End Here.
   Bullet Image. Start of Page Links. Item 1 C I O Document Library
   Links to information technology documents and websites.
   vertical dots divider
   Item 2 C I O Links
   Links to information technology security websites.
   Item 9 Computer Security Posters
   Printable posters covering various aspects of computer and information
   systems security.
   Item 3 Data Quality Action Team
   Addresses issues relating to I H S data quality and the determination
   of active user counts.
   Item 4 Division of Information Resources Strategic Plan
   I H S Information Resources Management Plan 1999-2003.
   Item 5 Discussion Server
   Information on the I H S on-line conferencing via WebBoard.
   Item 6 Graphical User Interface (G U I)
   Information about all I H S graphical user interface (G U I) projects.
   Item 7 I H S Links and Documents
   The I H S Hyperlink Resource Database is an extensive library of
   hyperlinks and documents that provide information relevant to the
   Indian Health Service.
   Item 8 Information Systems Advisory Committee (I S A C)
   Advisory group that guides the development of the Indian health
   information infrastructure and information systems.
   Item 10 Laboratory Services
   Information for those sites operating the R P M S Laboratory Package.

   Section Highlights

     I H S Developers Community

     I H S Links and Documents

     I H S Web Site Standards and Guidelines

     Resource Patient Management System (R P M S)
   Highlighted Links End here.
   Item 11 Listserver
   A server that distributes e-mail messages to multiple lists of
   recipients on subjects of interest to each list.
   Item 12 PCC+
   Provides information pertaining to the PCC+ Customizable Encounter Form
   application. This application enables PCC users to use a set of
   standard templates, which are designed to improve quality of care as
   well as data and billing integrity.
   Item 13 Referred Care Information System (R C I S)
   Information on the software application that tracks, stores, and
   reports clinical and cost data on patient referrals to in-house
   clinics, other I H S facilities, and contract health providers.
   Item 14 Resource Patient Management System (R P M S)
   An integrated software system for management of clinical and
   administrative data in I H S and tribally operated healthcare
   facilities.
   Item 15. End of Page Links. Self Determination
   Information on the Division of Information Resources-I T S C
   Self-Determination resources and services.
   Item 15. End of Page Links. Site Managers Network
   Information for the on-site administration of Resource and Patient
   Management System software applications.

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Thursday January 10, 2002  3:20 PM
