http://www.houston.feb.gov/Safety_council_organization.htm


[new%20logo(small).jpg]
Safety and Health Council



Draft Articles of Organization


Article I – Name


   The Houston Federal Executive Board Safety and Health Council


Article II – Scope


   The Houston Federal Executive Board Safety and Health Council will act
   on behalf of the Secretary of Labor or his designee on occupational
   safety and health activities and will serve as a clearinghouse for
   information on all matters pertaining to occupational safety and health
   for those Federal establishments located within the Houston, Galveston,
   Beaumont, Port Arthur, Texas area.


Article III – Function


   The Houston  Federal Executive Board Safety and Health Council will
   assist in the development of criteria and procedures for the
   establishment of adequate and effective occupational safety and health
   organizations and programs commensurate with the safety and health
   problems in the various Federal establishments presented.  It will be
   view, promote the development of, and recommend techniques, standards
   and regulations to eliminate or control hazards.  The Council will
   encourage and promote closer working relationships among safety and
   health representatives, recognized Federal Labor and other employee
   organizations, and  non-Federal safety and health organizations within
   the area.  The Council shall also carry out directives from the
   Secretary of Labor or his designee and the Federal Advisory Council on
   Occupational Safety and Health and participate with them on special
   problems, programs, and projects relating to occupational safety and
   health.


Article IV – Objective


   The primary objectives of the Houston Federal Executive Board Safety
   and Health Council are:


   A.       Accomplish the greatest possible reduction in the incidence,
   severity and cost of occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses in
   the Federal Government.


   B.       Act as a clearinghouse of information and data on occupational
   accidents, injuries and illnesses and their prevention.


   C.       Plan, organize and conduct field council meetings (at least
   four during the calendar year), on programs which will give technical
   advice and information to representatives of participating
   establishments and labor and other employee organizations.


   D.       Promote improvement of safety and health programs and
   organizations in each Federal establishment represented.


   E.       Promote coordination, cooperation and sharing of resources and
   expertise to aid establishments with inadequate or limited resources.
   These objectives will be accomplished in a variety of ways.  For
   example, this council may organize and conduct training programs for
   collateral duty safety personnel, coordinate or promote programs for
   courtesy inspections, or, on request, conduct evaluations of the
   activities safety and health programs.


   F.        Provide the Houston Federal Executive Board, its member
   agencies  and labor union organizations with information on the
   administrative and technical aspects of safety and health management.


   G.       Evaluate the safety and health problems peculiar to local
   conditions and suggest approaches to eliminating such problems.


   H.       Develop a cooperative relationship with local community
   leaders by informing them of the functions and objectives of the
   Council meetings and activities.


Article V – Membership


   The Houston Federal Executive Board Safety and Health Council will
   consist of representative of local Federal activities appointed by
   their respective activity heads as member or alternates to represent
   such Federal establishments on the Council.  The representatives will
   include personnel from the following categories:


   1)        Safety and Health professionals


   2)       Related professions, occupations, or collateral duty personnel


   3)       Representatives of recognized local labor organizations, if
   any, or other employee organizations   representing civilian employees
   in each Federal field activity comprising the Council.


   In addition, associate membership may be granted to any non-Federally
   employed individual who has demonstrated interest in occupational
   safety and health.  An associate member will have no voting rights and
   may not hold any office.


   In order to most effectively facilitate the exchange of  ideas and
   information with respect to occupational safety and health, this
   council shall set no limit on the number of individuals that may become
   members and/or attend meetings and/or participate in Council
   activities.


Article VI – Organization


   The Officers of this Council will include as minimum, a chairperson,
   vice chairperson, and recorder, who shall be elected for a one year
   term on a calendar year basis by a majority vote of the representatives
   present at a regularly scheduled meeting.


   Election of officers will be held at least 60 days before the beginning
   of the calendar year.


   There will be Field Council Executive Committee consisting of all
   elected officers, chairpersons of appointed committees, the immediate
   past chairperson of the field council and union or other employee
   representatives.


   The Executive Committee will meet at least 45 days before the beginning
   of each calendar year to plan the Council’s program.  This will include
   the establishment of necessary committees, types of programs and places
   of meetings.  Other meetings of the Executive Committee will be called
   by the chairperson as necessary.


   In order for the Executive Committee to be properly representative of
   the membership, it shall not have more than two representatives from
   the same field activity.


   Other committees may be appointed by the chairperson for specified
   purposes as warranted.


Article VII – Reports


   The council will submit to the Secretary of Labor or his designee by
   March 15 of each year a report describing the activities and programs
   of the previous calendar year and plans, objectives and goals for the
   coming year.  This report shall be prepared by the outgoing chairperson
   with the assistance of the current chairperson.  In addition, the
   report will address the support provided by the Federal establishments
   and labor organizations including representative attendance.  Other
   reports will be submitted to the Secretary of Labor or his designee
   upon request.


Article VIII – Amendments


   Any proposed amendment to these Articles of Organization shall be acted
   upon a meeting of the council members and, before becoming effective,
   shall be approved by a majority vote of the council member present.
   Proposed changes shall be submitted to the chairperson, in writing, at
   least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the meeting at which they
   are to be voted upon.


   A.       Council Officers


   Subpart F, 29 CFR 1960.55, requires that council officers include as
   minimum, a chairperson, a vice-chairperson, and a secretary.  Officers
   shall be elected for the term specified in the Council’s Article on a
   calendar year basis by majority vote of the representatives present at
   a regularly scheduled meeting.  More information about election of
   officers is contained in Section V.3.


   In addition to the mandatory officers, the council may find it
   advantageous to elect additional officers for specific activities.  For
   example, a property officer, financial officer, or similar type officer
   may be elected as an ongoing part of the council’s organizational
   structure.


   B.       Council Committees


   There be a Field Council Executive Committee consisting of all elected
   officers, chairpersons of appointed committees, the immediate past
   chairperson of the council, and a representative of employees.  This
   employee representative should be a member of the field council who has
   been selected or elected by those employee representatives who are
   members of the council.


   In order for the Executive Committee to be representative of the
   membership, it should not have more than two representatives from the
   same field activity.


   Other committee may be appointed by the chairperson for specific
   purposes, such as program, membership, nominating, or training.  Each
   committee will have a chairperson who will by virtue of that office be
   a member of the Executive Committee.


   Committee duties are covered by Section V of this manual.


   C.       Membership


   1.        Each field council will consist of representatives of local
   Federal activities appointed by their respective activity heads as
   members or alternates and selected from individuals in the following
   categories.


   (a)     Safety and health professionals.  This category of membership
   includes Federal personnel.


   (b)     Related professionals, occupations, or collateral duty
   personnel.  This category of membership includes persons employed in
   professions or occupations related to or concerned with the safety and
   health of employees.


   (c)     Representatives of recognized Federal labor or other employee
   organizations.  This category of membership includes representatives of
   recognized local labor organizations, if any, or other employee
   organizations representing civilian employees in each Federal field
   activity comprising the field council.

   Appointment of these members for attendance at meetings or
   participation in field council activities will be their respective
   activity heads after consultation and/or negotiation with appropriate
   employee representatives.

           The term and conditions of service of each representatives will
   be at the discretion of each representative’s activity head.


   (d)     Representatives from non-Federal organizations Associate
   membership may be granted to any non-Federally employed individual who
   has demonstrated interest in occupational safety and health.  An
   associate member has no voting rights and may not hold any office.


   2.       A primary objective of the field Federal safety and health
   council is to facilitate an exchange of ideas and information with
   respect to health and safety.  Accordingly, no maximum limitation may
   be established by a field Federal safety and health council with regard
   to the numbers of personnel in any of the above categories that will be
   member and/or attend meetings and/or participate in field council
   activities.


   3.     All officially designated Federal members and representatives or
   their alternates shall have voting privileges and Serve without
   additional compensation.



     Comments??             Council members        Return to Home Page
