http://www.sc.doe.gov/feature_articles_2001/may/program_summaries/mel-fs.PDF

   Office of Science Multiprogram Energy Laboratories-Facility Support
   http:www.science.doe.gov The five Office of Science (SC) multiprogram
   national laboratories - Argonne National Laboratory - East (ANL-E),
   Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL), Lawrence Berkeley National
   Laboratory (LBNL), Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), and Pacific
   Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) - will continue to play a critical
   role in the performance of today's high technology scientific research.
   These laboratories are government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) and
   have over 1,600 buildings with 15.5 million gross square feet of space
   and an estimated replacement value of more than $10 billion. Total
   operating funding for these laboratories is more than $3 billion a
   year. The Multiprogram Energy Laboratories - Facility Support (MEL-FS)
   Program provides line item construction funding (i.e., projects with a
   total estimated cost of $5,000,000 or above) to support the
   rehabilitation, replacement and modernization of the aging (some are
   30-50 years old) general purpose infrastructure at these laboratories.
   The Opportunity: The MEL-FS Program facilitates maintaining SC's
   leadership role in the performance of cutting-edge research in a number
   of areas, including the human genome project, high temperature
   superconductors and subatomic particle analysis. This research requires
   significant revitalization of the laboratories to transform the current
   obsolete facilities into state-of-the-art facilities which can perform
   the science of the 21st century. The Challenge: The challenge is to
   maintain, with the funding available for infrastructure, the general
   purpose infrastructure in the SC Laboratory complex to ensure that it
   continues to support the high technology scientific research performed
   at the laboratories. This challenge continues to increase as the
   laboratories age and the backlog of infrastructure projects grows. FY
   2002 Investment Plan: In order to meet the challenge, the MEL-FS will
   initiate design activities for three critical infrastructure projects
   with a total estimated cost of $34M. The three projects are: * The PNNL
   Laboratory Systems Upgrades project will renovate/reconfigure space in
   eight buildings allowing for increased utilization and also includes
   modernizing chemical fume hoods, HVAC systems, lighting and windows for
   increased energy efficiency. The renovation will add approximately 30
   years to the facility useful life of these core research facilities. It
   is estimated to reduce electrical use by 20%, natural gas by 17% and
   operations and maintenance costs by 20%. April 2001 Continued
   Multiprogram Energy Laboratories-Facility Support
   http:www.science.doe.gov * The ANL-E Mechanical and Control Systems
   Upgrade  Phase I project will upgrade or replace 30-40 year old,
   deteriorated mechanical system components in 13 major laboratory
   buildings with a total of 1.5 million square feet that house 1,400
   employees. The project will enhance system reliability and performance;
   improve safety; and reduce maintenance, repair, and energy costs by
   $600,000 per year while enhancing research productivity. * The ORNL
   50,000 square foot Research Support Center will house approximately 50
   staff and will demolish approximately 4,300 square feet of excess
   space. The Center will include a laboratory auditorium with adjacent
   conference rooms, a cafeteria, visitor center and offices. The facility
   will serve ORNL staff and the nearly 30,000 visitors, guests, and
   scientific collaborators that use ORNL facilities each year. The
   investment will have a simple payback period of 7 years. The MEL-FS
   Program will also continue to fund six on-going critical infrastructure
   projects with a total estimated cost of $42 million. The six projects
   are: * ORNL Facilities HVAC Upgrade; * BNL Ground and Surface Water
   Protection Upgrades; * ORNL Fire Protection System Upgrades; * LBNL
   Site-wide Water Distribution System Upgrade; * BNL Electrical Systems
   Modifications  Phase II; and * ANL-E Fire Safety Improvements  Phase
   IV. The Benefits: Completion of the projects listed above will
   significantly improve the capabilities of the SC multi program
   laboratories to meet the challenges of maintaining its leadership role
   in performing highly technical research in the 21st century. Artist's
   rendition of the ORNL Research Support Center which will be initiated
   in FY 2002 http:www.science.doe.gov Continued April 2001
