http://shelby.senate.gov/news/record.cfm?id=180335

   black border Senator Richard C. Shelby - Link to Home Page Alabama
   Scene

   About the Senator Legislation Press Services Resources
     [cleardot.gif]

                                Press Release

         SHELBY ANNOUNCES "RENEWAL COMMUNITY" DESIGNATION FOR MOBILE

   Contact: Andrea Andrews
   Monday, January 28, 2002

   WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Senator Richard C. Shelby (R-AL) today announced
   that Mobile County has been designated a "Renewal Community" by the
   Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mobile County will be
   eligible for an estimated $17 billion in tax incentives to stimulate
   job growth, provide economic development and create affordable housing.
   The 2000 Community Renewal Tax Relief Act established the Renewal
   Community Initiative to encourage public-private collaboration to
   generate economic development in distressed communities around the
   country.

   "I am pleased to announce this opportunity for Mobile County," said
   Sen. Shelby. "These tax incentives will provide much-needed assistance
   in our efforts to promote job growth and economic development
   throughout Mobile County."

   The Department of Housing and Urban Development has designated 40
   communities around the country as "Renewal Communities." The Renewal
   Communities are eligible for wage credits, tax deductions, capital
   gains exclusions and bond financing to stimulate economic development
   and job growth. Each incentive is tailored to meet the particular needs
   of a business and offers a significant inducement for companies to
   locate and hire additional workers.

   The median income in the Mobile County Renewal Community is less than a
   half of the Metropolitan Statistical Area. By reducing tax burdens,
   improving local services and reducing crime, the County hopes to
   attract businesses into the area that will make up its Renewal
   Community.

                                   - 30 -

                                  About the
 Senator  •  Legislation  •  Press  •  Services  •  Resources  •  Contac
                                    t Me

   < Return to Press Releases
