http://www.lb7.uscourts.gov/reflinks.htm

   Seventh Circuit Seal

               William J. Campbell Library of the U.S. Courts
       Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, 219 S. Dearborn St. Rm. 1637,
                           Chicago, IL 60604-1706
                          Telephone: (312) 435-5660
     __________________________________________________________________

                     Seventh Circuit Virtual Law Library

       Federal Legal Resources State and Local Resources Legal Subject
              Resources Other Legal Resources General Resources

   The Seventh Circuit Virtual Library provides links to legal information
   on the Internet for legal researchers in the Seventh Circuit, which
   includes the states of Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. The sites have
   been reviewed, selected and annotated. Official government sites have
   been selected wherever possible.
     __________________________________________________________________

     * Return to Seventh Circuit Law Library Home Page
     * Return to Seventh Circuit Internet Home Page
     * Return to Federal Judiciary Internet Home Page
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  CAPTION:

                           Federal Legal Resources

    Federal Judicial Branch Federal Legislative Branch Federal Executive
                                   Branch
     Supreme Court Historical American Documents Federal Administrative
                                 Regulations
   Federal Court of Appeals Opinions Federal Legislative Branch Web Sites
                     Federal Executive Branch Web Sites

      Federal Bankruptcy Appellate Panels Federal Legislative Materials
                       Federal Administrative Opinions
       Federal Rules of Court Federal Statutes Federal Administrative
                                  Materials
                        Federal Courts of 7th Circuit
                         Federal Military Materials
                          Federal Court Local Rules
                     Federal Judiciary Codes of Conduct
                        Federal Judiciary Home Pages

                      Federal Pattern Jury Instructions

                          Federal Pro Se Litigants

                                  CAPTION:

                       State and Local Legal Resources

   State Judicial Branch State Legislative Branch State Executive Branch
   Local Government
   State Court Opinions State Legislative Sites State Executive Agency
   Sites Municipal Government
   State Court Rules State Legislative History State Regulations County
   Government

   State Jury Instructions State Statutes

                                  CAPTION:

                      Selected Legal Subject Resources

   Bankruptcy Resources Indian Law Resources Legal Ethics Social Security
                                  Resources
      Copyright and Patent Resources International Law Resources Legal
                Writing and Citation Style Taxation Resources
     Criminal Law Resources Labor Law Resources Securities Law Resources
                            Uniform Law Resources
                          Employment Law Resources

                                  CAPTION:

                            Other Legal Resources

             Searching Tools Directories Law Schools Legal News
   Legal Search Engines Directories of Lawyers Law School Sites & Library
                             Catalogs Legal News
    Sites With Extensive Legal Links Legal Associations Law Journals News
                        of Interest to the Judiciary
                   Government Search Sites Bar Admissions
               Government Documents Continuing Legal Education
                              Legal Publishers

                                  CAPTION:

                              General Resources

   Acronyms Calendars and Time General Search Engines Reference Megasites
      Addresses & Telephone Numbers Colleges & Universities Government
                        Employees & Benefits Science

     Almanacs and Factbooks Company Information Internet Skills Shipping
               Automobile Prices Computers Libraries Speeches
                      Bible Dictionaries Maps Standards
              Biography Electronic Citation Medical Statistics
   Books Online Encyclopedia Newspapers and Magazines Travel Arrangements
                    Calculators Forms Quotations Weather
     __________________________________________________________________

                            Federal Legal Resources

Federal Supreme Court

   U.S. Supreme Court
       Official web site. Offers Court rules, argument calendars, bar
       admission forms and historical materials. Text of the decisions
       will be available within hours after they are handed down. (U.S.
       Supreme Court)
          + Opinions
          + Orders
          + Argument Transcripts
            Oral Argument Transcripts are posted within 10-15 days after
            the transcripts are complete and are permanently archived on
            the site.
          + Supreme Court Docket
            Covers the current and prior Terms and provides case
            information for decided as well as pending litigation.
   Cert. Granted
       Law.com's U.S. Supreme Court Monitor presents information about
       certiorari granted for the current Term in chronological order or
       by subject. At the bottom of each cert granted paragraph it says
       "Read the case summary." The full case summary information provides
       case details including date the petition was granted, date for oral
       arguments (if known), issues presented, counsel, and amicus
       information. (Law.com)
   Supreme Court Collection Contents Page
       Made available by Cornell Legal Information Institute. Decisions
       and petitions for cert granted or denied may be posted here more
       quickly than on the Official Supreme Court site. You may receive
       Cornell's LIIbulletin, a free e-mail service that will provide you
       with the official syllabus of Supreme Court decisions on the day
       they are issued. (Cornell)
          + Oral Argument Calendar for the term starting October 2001.
          + Decisions for the October 2001 term.
          + Decisions for the October 2000 term.
          + Orders, including Petitions for Certiorari Granted and Denied
            for the October 2001 term.
          + Orders, including Petitions for Certiorari Granted and Denied
            for the October 2000 term.
          + Searchable database of Supreme Court Orders.
            Search order lists and irregular orders for particular cases
            and any orders related to them. Database coverage goes back to
            the beginning of the October 1998 term.
   Supreme Court Decisions
       Vol. 150-Current U.S. Reports, 1893-Current. Browse by year or U.S.
       Reports volume number. Search by citation, case title or full text.
       (Findlaw)
   Guide to the U.S. Supreme Court
       Includes a section linking to extended coverage of the Supreme
       Court in major media - C-SPAN: America and the Courts program
       archive, Law News Network, New York Times, Washington Post and USA
       Today. (Jurist: The Law Professors' Network)
   The Oyez Project: Supreme Court Oral Arguments
       Selected unedited oral arguments before the Supreme Court, dating
       from 1955. Requires RealAudio and speakers. (Northwestern U.)
   Supreme Court Center
       Made available by Findlaw. Easy to use tab system takes you to
       Cases, Docket, Decisions, Orders, Briefs, Rules, Guides and
       Schedule. (Findlaw)
          + Briefs
            Supreme Court briefs in alphabetical order by first-party case
            name. All briefs filed in each case the court has agreed to
            hear, including amicus briefs. Briefs are added weekly.
            (Findlaw)
          + Case Index
            Organizes pending cases by topic and contains a hyperlink for
            the case at the lower court level.
          + Docket Index
            Organizes cases by the date they will be heard. Includes
            Questions Presented.
          + Decisions of the Current Term
            Organizes decisions by the month decided and contains a
            hyperlink to the decision on Findlaw.
          + Filing Guides
            Guide to Filing In Forma pauperis Cases, Guide to Filing Paid
            Cases and Guide for Counsel in Cases to Be Argued. From the
            Office of the Clerk, Supreme Court of the United States.
          + Orders
            Includes orders in pending cases, grants and denials of
            certiorari, mandamus, and rehearings, and attorney discipline
            orders.
        Rules
        Schedule
            Supreme Court calendar. Includes argument days, conference
            days, non-argument sessions and court holidays.

Federal Court of Appeals Decisions

   Seventh Circuit Decisions
       Official Seventh Circuit Internet site, including Judicial
       opinions, Filing tips, handouts and forms, Practitioner's Handbook,
       Internal Operating Procedures, Federal appellate and local rules,
       Proposed rule changes, Docket sheets, Employment opportunities,
       Standards for professional conduct, Misconduct complaint rules,
       Seventh Circuit Bar Association, and Federal Defender information.
       (Seventh Circuit)
   Seventh Circuit Decisions
       Browse cases since January 1993. Search cases from May 1995 to
       present. (Chicago-Kent)
   Seventh Circuit Citation Lists
       If you know the Seventh Circuit case name, the docket number, or
       the date of decision, use these lists to locate the official
       Federal Reporter citation for cases decided in 1998, 1999 and 2000.
       Updated monthly by Cary Biskupic, Library Technician at the Library
       of the U.S. Courts in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
       Court of Appeals Case Searches
   Search All U.S. Court of Appeals Opinions on the Internet
       The collections of judicial opinions which this search engine
       searches are not maintained by the LII (or any other single
       institution or organization). As a result there is great variation
       in the extent of the collections from site to site; for example,
       the 5th Circuit collection extends back to 1986, whereas it is
       unusual for others to go back much further than 1995. File formats,
       titling practices, layout, and typography all vary widely and there
       may be significant gaps in some collections. Cornell updates the
       index regularly. The updating process takes about three days,
       because of the high volume of data which must be checked. Very,
       very recent cases will probably not appear in your search results.
       (Cornell)
   Federal Courts Finder
       Map to access all Circuit Court of Appeals decision sites. (Emory)
       Court of Appeals Decisions
   First Circuit Decisions (Jan. 2000 - present) (First Circuit)
   First Circuit Decisions (Nov. 1995 - present) (Emory)
   Second Circuit Decisions (Jan. 1993 - present) (Touro)
   Second Circuit Decisions (Sept. 1995 - present) (Pace)
   Third Circuit Decisions (1997 - present) (Third Circuit)
   Third Circuit Decisions (May 1994 - present) (Villanova)
   Fourth Circuit Decisions (Jan. 1995 - present) (Emory)
   Fifth Circuit Decisions (Apr. 1992 - present) (Fifth Circuit)
   Fifth Circuit Decisions (1992 - present) (U. of Texas)
   Sixth Circuit Decisions (1994 - present) (Sixth Circuit)
   Sixth Circuit Decisions (Jan. 1995 - June 1999) (Emory)
   Seventh Circuit Decisions (1991 - present) (Seventh Circuit)
   Seventh Circuit Decisions (Jan. 1993 - present) (Chicago-Kent)
   Eighth Circuit Decisions (1995 - present) (Eighth Circuit)
   Ninth Circuit Decisions (Jan. 1995 - present) (Ninth Circuit)
   Tenth Circuit Decisions (Aug. 1995-Oct. 1997) (Emory)
   Tenth Circuit Decisions (Oct. 1997 - present) (Washburn)
   Eleventh Circuit Decisions (Nov. 1994 - present) (Emory)
   Eleventh Circuit Decisions (Aug. 1999 - present) (Eleventh Circuit)
   D.C. Circuit Decisions (Sept. 1997 - present) (D.C. Circuit)
   D.C. Circuit Decisions (Feb. 1995 - present) (Georgetown)
   Federal Circuit Decisions (Aug. 1995 - present) (Emory)
   Federal Circuit Decisions (Aug. 1995 - present) (Georgetown)
   Federal Circuit Decisions (Precedential opinions posted for 90 days)
       (Federal Circuit)
       Federal Courts of Special Jurisdiction
   U.S. Court of Appeals for Armed Forces Decisions (Jan. 1997 - present)
       (Armed Forces Court)
   U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims (1989 - present) (Veterans
       Claims Court)
   U.S. Court of Federal Claims (July 1997 - present) (George Washington)
   U.S. Court of International Trade (Jan. 1999 - present) (Int'l Trade
       Court)
   U.S. Tax Court (Jan. 1999 - present) (Tax Court)

Federal Bankruptcy Appellate Panels

   8th Circuit Bankruptcy Appellate Panel
       (8th Circuit)
   10th Circuit Bankruptcy Appellate Panel
       (10th Circuit)

Federal Rules of Court

   Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure
       Current as of December 1, 2001. 7th Circuit Local Rules and IOP in
       html or PDF format. (Seventh Circuit Internet)
   Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
       2001-2002 ed. (Cornell)
   Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
       2001 ed. (Cornell)
          +
        Appendix of Forms
   Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
       2001-2002 ed. (Cornell)
   Federal Rules of Evidence
       2001 ed. (Cornell)
   Federal Rulemaking
       This site provides access to the national and local rules currently
       in effect in the federal courts, as well as background information
       on the federal rules and the rulemaking process. All proposed
       amendments to the rules are posted for your review and comment and
       an archive of amendments is also posted. (AOUS)
       See this page for:
          + Rules in Effect - Furnished by the House Judiciary Committee
          + Proposed Amendments for Comment
          + Pending Rules Amendments Submitted to the Supreme Court or
            Judicial Conference
   Supreme Court Rules
       Adopted January 11, 1999. Effective May 3, 1999. Also available at
       the Supreme Court website in pdf format. (Cornell)
   U.S. Tax Court Rules
       Rules in pdf format. Effective August 1, 1998. (U.S. Tax Court)

Federal Courts of Seventh Circuit

    Internet Sites [point.gif] Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
       [point.gif] Circuit Library
       [point.gif] Illinois Central Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Illinois Central District Court
       [point.gif] Illinois Northern Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Illinois Northern District Court
       [point.gif] Illinois Southern Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Illinois Southern District Court
       [point.gif] Indiana Northern Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Indiana Northern District Court
       [point.gif] Indiana Southern Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Indiana Southern District Court
       [point.gif] Indiana Southern Probation Office
       [point.gif] Wisconsin Eastern Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Wisconsin Eastern District Court
       [point.gif] Wisconsin Western District Court
       [point.gif] Wisconsin Western Bankruptcy Court
       [point.gif] Wisconsin Western Probation Office

Federal Court Local Rules

   Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
       Includes the Practitioner's Handbook, Internal Operating
       Procedures, Local Rules, Proposed Rules Changes, Docket Sheets,
       Standards for Professional Conduct, as well as other information.
       (Seventh Circuit)
          + Circuit Local Rules in PDF format.
          + Circuit Operating Procedures in PDF format.
          + Practitioner's Handbook in html or PDF format. 2002 edition.
          + Standards for Professional Conduct in html format.
          + Rules Governing Complaints of Judicial Misconduct or
            Disability in PDF format.
   Court Links
       Links to all federal court Internet pages. (AOUS)
        Local Rules - U.S. Courts of Appeals
            (AOUS)
        Local Rules - U.S. District Courts
            (AOUS)
        Local Rules - U.S. Bankruptcy Courts
            (AOUS)
   Court Rules, Forms and Dockets
       Comprehensive listing of Federal and State court rules, forms and
       dockets available on the Internet, compiled by the editors at Law
       Librarian's Resource Xchange. (LLRX)

Federal Judiciary Codes of Conduct

   Code of Conduct for United States Judges
       (1995-96 ed.) (Cornell)
       Also see the ABA Rules of Lawyer Conduct. (1995-96 ed.) (Cornell)
   Code of Conduct for Judicial Employees
       (1996 ed.) (TouchNGo)
   Standards for Professional Conduct within the Seventh Federal Circuit
       In HTML format. (Southern District of Indiana)
   Standards for Professional Conduct within the Seventh Federal Circuit
       In PDF format. (Seventh Circuit)
   Rules of the Judicial Council of the Seventh Circuit Governing
       Complaints of Judicial Misconduct or Disability
       As of December 1, 1998. In PDF format. (Seventh Circuit)

Federal Judiciary Home Pages

   Federal Judiciary Homepage
       This is the Judiciary Internet homepage. Includes About the U.S.
       Courts, Newsroom, Library of publications and statistical reports,
       Court Links, Frequently Asked Questions, Employment Opportunities,
       and a Search feature. (AOUS)
          +
        Federal Judiciary Homepage Links
            Map to access all court external Internet sites. (AOUS)
          +
        Post Judgement Interest Rates
            Interest allowed on judgments entered in Federal courts.
            (AOUS)
          +
        Understanding the Federal Courts
            This document provides an overview of the organization,
            operation, and administration of the entire federal court
            system. In pdf format. (AOUS)
          +
        Employment Opportunities
            Prospective law clerks can access the Federal Law Clerk
            Information System to search a national database of federal
            law clerk vacancies. (AOUS)
   Federal Judicial Center
       Site includes many FJC publications available for downloading in
       PDF format as well as downloadable educational programs. Use the
       scroll bar on the left to select the subject and find the
       publication you are looking for. Examples of the FJC publications
       available online include the following titles: Reference Manual on
       Scientific Evidence, 2d ed and the new Resource Guide for Managing
       Capital Cases.
       The History of the Federal Judiciary section gives the legislative
       history of the Supreme Court, the Circuit Courts, the Courts of
       Appeals and the District Courts, as well as biographical
       information about each presidentially appointed judge on the courts
       since 1789. There are also historical documents related to the
       judicial branch of government.
          + Legislative history and judicial biographies of the U.S.
            Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
          + Legislative history and judicial biographies of the U.S.
            District Courts of Illinois
          + Legislative history and judicial biographies of the U.S.
            District Courts of Indiana
          + Legislative history and judicial biographies of the U.S.
            District Courts of Wisconsin
   PACER Service Center
       The PACER Service Center is the Federal Judiciary's centralized
       registration, billing, and technical support center for electronic
       access to U.S. District, Bankruptcy, and Appellate court records.
       There is information about PACER, registration information, and
       links to the individual court PACER systems at Public Access to
       Court Electronic Records. (AOUS)
   U.S. Sentencing Commission
       Includes Sentencing Guidelines, Federal Sentencing Statistics,
       Reports to Congress, and Hearing Testimony.

Federal Pattern Jury Instructions

   First Circuit Pattern Criminal Jury Instructions
       1998 edition. (Boston Bar)
   Fifth Circuit Pattern Civil Jury Instructions
       1999 edition available in html, pdf or as a downloadable
       WordPerfect file. (5th Circuit)
   Fifth Circuit Pattern Civil Jury Instructions
       2001 edition available in html, pdf or as a downloadable
       WordPerfect file. (5th Circuit)
   Sixth Circuit Pattern Criminal Jury Instructions
       1991edition available in html. (6th Circuit)
   Seventh Circuit Pattern Criminal Federal Jury Instructions
       Adopted November 30, 1998. In PDF format. (7th Circuit)
   Seventh Circuit pattern civil jury instructions
       There are no Seventh Circuit pattern civil jury instructions.
   Eighth Circuit Manual of Model Criminal Jury Instructions
       In pdf format. 2000 edition (8th Circuit)
   Eighth Circuit Manual of Model Civil Jury Instructions
       In WordPerfect format. 2001 edition. (8th Circuit)
   Eighth Circuit Manual of Model Civil Jury Instructions
       In pdf format. 2001 edition (8th Circuit)
   Ninth Circuit Manual of Model Civil Jury Instructions
       1997 edition (9th Circuit)
   Ninth Circuit Manual of Model Criminal Jury Instructions
       2000 edition (9th Circuit)
   Ninth Circuit Manual on Jury Trial Procedures
       September 2000 edition (9th Circuit)
   Eleventh Circuit Criminal Pattern Jury Instructions
       Executable file that must be saved on your computer. 1997 edition.
       (11th Circuit)
   Eleventh Circuit Civil Pattern Jury Instructions
       Ftp connection to a pdf document. 1999 edition. (11th Circuit)

    Other Pattern Jury Instructions
   American Intellectual Property Law Association Model Patent Jury
       Instructions
       (AIPLA)
   Criminal Tax Manual Jury Instructions
       1994. (DOJ)
   Federal Prosecution of Violations of Intellectual Property Rights:
       Copyrights, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets (Jury Instructions)
       (DOJ)
   FPLC Intellectual Property Mall IP Jury Instructions.
       Contains jury instructions for both civil and criminal cases to be
       tried in Federal Court. View in Internet Explorer. (Franklin Pierce
       Law Center)
   North American Securities Administrators Association Model Jury
       Instructions
       Use the pulldown menu to select NASAA Library and then use the
       scroll bar on the left to find Jury Instructions. Click on the link
       and the instructions will open in PDF format. (NASAA)
   Sample Jury Instructions from District Judge David H. Coar
       (Northern District of Illinois)
   Jury Instructions from District Judge Robert W. Gettleman.
       Example sets of jury instructions that have been approved in cases
       before District Judge Robert W. Gettleman. They should be regarded
       as models. Counsel is advised to adapt these instructions to the
       particular circumstances of each case, and to ensure that they
       reflect the current state of the law. (Northern District of
       Illinois)
          + Standard Jury Instructions at Close of Trial
          + Excessive Force Model Jury Instruction
          + Excessive Force, Traffic Stop, False Arrest, Battery -
            Multiple Defendants
          + Product Liability Model Jury Instructions
          + Title VII Model Jury Instructions
   Model Civil Jury Instructions from District Judge Philip G. Reinhard
       (Northern District of Illinois)
   Standard Civil Jury Instructions from Western District of Michigan
       (Western District of Michigan)

Federal Pro Se Litigants

   Federal Court Prison Litigation Project Revised Handbook
       This is a handbook for attorneys appointed by the United States
       District Court for the Northern District of Illinois to represent
       prisoners in litigation filed pro se. The Illinois Institute for
       Community Law, in conjunction with the District Court, has revised
       this handbook to provide information regarding correctional
       policies and procedures and the substantive and procedural rights
       of incarcerated persons, including several recent fundamental
       changes that have occurred since the last revision of the handbook.
       The handbook is intended to be of assistance to attorneys
       unfamiliar with prison procedures and prisoner litigation. However,
       as with any work of this type, attorneys should determine that all
       citations, statutes, and other information are correct as of the
       time the handbook is used. (Northern District of Illinois)
   Prisoner Litigation Handbook
       Scroll down to Other Documents at the bottom of the page. Download
       or open as a Microsoft help file. (Northern District of Illinois)
   Pro Se Handbook: The Manual for the Litigant Filing Without Counsel
       (District Court of Idaho.)
   Pro Se Handbook
       Click on Court Publications and then scroll down to ProSe Handbook.
       This handbook is prepared to help those who want to represent
       themselves in a lawsuit. (Southern District of Indiana)

Historical American Documents

   Avalon Project
       Comprehensive collection of digital documents in law, history,
       economics, politics, diplomacy and government. Links to supporting
       documents expressly referred to in the body of the text. Documents
       range from the Code of Hammurabi to the Inaugural Addresses of the
       Presidents to the UN Charter. (Yale)
   Historical Documents
       Browse or do a word/phrase search of early Congressional documents,
       the Federalist papers and the Constitution. (Library of Congress)
   Documents from the Constitutional Congress and the Constitutional
       Convention, 1774-1789.
       The Continental Congress Broadside Collection (253 titles) and the
       Constitutional Convention Broadside Collection (21 titles) contain
       274 documents relating to the work of Congress and the drafting and
       ratification of the Constitution. Items include extracts of the
       journals of Congress, resolutions, proclamations, committee
       reports, treaties, and early printed versions of the United States
       Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. Most Broadsides
       are one page in length, others range from 1 to 28 pages. (Library
       of Congress)
   A Century of Lawmaking for a New Nation
       The collection comprises twelve different titles, covering the
       Continental Congress, the Constitutional Convention, and the 1st
       through 42nd Federal Congresses. Users may search most of these
       works directly and with some of the congressional titles, as
       described below, move from one to another by links to the same date
       in related entries. The Journals of the Continental Congress, the
       Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, the Debates in the
       Several State Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal
       Constitution, the House and Senate Journals (1789-1873), the Senate
       Executive Journal (1789-1873), and the Journal of William Maclay
       (1789-1791) are all available both as digital facsimile images and
       as searchable texts. The Annals of Congress (1789-1824), Register
       of Debates (1824-1837), Congressional Globe (1833-1873), seventeen
       volumes of the Statutes at Large (1789-1873), and selected volumes
       of the U.S. Serial Set are available as digital facsimile images
       accompanied by searchable indexes and page headings. (Library of
       Congress)
   Declaration of Independence
       July 4, 1776. (Library of Congress)
   Federalist Papers
       Eighty-five essays written by Alexander Hamilton, John Jay and
       James Madison between October 1787 and May 1788. (Library of
       Congress)
   Constitution of the United States
       Includes Constitution, Bill of Rights (Amendments 1-10) and
       Amendments 11-27 to the Constitution. (Library of Congress)
   Constitution of the United States: Analysis and Interpretation
       Annotations of Cases Decided by the Supreme Court of the United
       States. Senate Document 103-6, the 1992 edition, and 106-8, the
       1998 supplement. Provides an overview, scholarly commentary, cases
       interpreting each section, and law review articles. Also includes
       tables of laws held unconstitutional, table of cases and index.
       (Congressional Research Service. Library of Congress)

Federal Legislative Branch Web Sites

   U.S. Legislative Branch
       Includes information about Congress, links to Congressional mega
       sources, members, committees, Congressional organizations, e-mail
       addresses, calendars & schedules, floor proceedings, legislation,
       U.S. Code, House and Senate Rules, Congressional Record, roll call
       votes, executive business of the Senate, legislative process,
       Congressional news and analysis, Congressional Internet services,
       history of Congress, visitor information, status of FY 2001
       Appropriations Bills. (Library of Congress)
   U.S. House of Representatives Home Page
       Includes House operations, House Directory, Member Offices,
       Committee Offices, Leadership Offices, other House Organizations,
       Commissions, and Task Forces, Media Galleries, the week's schedule
       on the House Floor, what is currrently on the House Floor, the
       annual Congressional schedule, information about bills and
       resolutions being considered in the Congress, Roll Call Votes as
       compiled through the electronic voting machine by the House Tally
       Clerks, House Committee Hearing Schedules and Oversight Plans and
       links to the Library of Congress and the United States Code.
       (House)
   U.S. Senate Home Page
       Legislative activities (recent legislative actions, scheduled
       activities and other records), committee information and links to
       other committee pages, Senators (information on Senators and Senate
       leadership), Learning About the Senate (Senate history, procedures,
       terminology, virtual tours), other resources (FAQ, statistics, and
       links to related sites, search. (Senate)
       Committee Home Pages
   House Committee Home Page
       Links to each committee. (House)
   Senate Committee Home Page
       Links to each committee. (Senate)
       Judiciary Committees
   House Judiciary Committee
       Includes information about members, subcommittee members, committee
       documents, hearings testimony, business meetings and markups.
       (House)
   Senate Judiciary Committee
       Includes information about members, subcommittee members,
       jurisdiction, rules, hearings schedules including selected prepared
       testimony, a list of printed hearings (no links), links to Senate
       reports and bill text of legislation referred to the Senate
       Judiciary committee. (Senate)
       Biographical Information about Members of Congress
   Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, 1774-Present
       Enter name, position or state to retrieve biographical information
       about members of Congress. (House)
   Congressional Directory
       (GPO)
   Congressional Pictorial Directory
       Members of Congress with biographies and pictures. (GPO)

Federal Legislative Materials

   Thomas: Legislative Information on the Internet
       Searchable database of the legislative activities and proceedings
       of the U.S. Congress from the Library of Congress. Includes: House
       and Senate floor activities; Bill summary & status: 1973-Current;
       Bill text: 1989-90 to Current; House Roll Call votes: 1990-Current;
       Senate Roll Call Votes: 1989-Current, Public Laws by law number
       1973-current, major legislation: 1995-Current by topic, by
       popular/short title, by bill number/type, enacted into law;
       Congressional Record Text: 1989-Current; Congressional Record
       Index: 1994-Current; Committee Reports: Congress: 1995-98; House
       and Senate Committee Home Pages; House Committees: Schedules and
       Oversight Plans, Selected Hearing Transcripts; legislative process
       publications How Our Laws Are Made and Enactment of a Law;
       historical documents. (Library of Congress)
       Guides to Federal Legislative History Research
   Federal Legislative History Research
       Subtitled: A Practitioner's Guide to Compiling the Documents and
       Sifting for Legislative Intent. This site explains in detail (both
       in outline and in written narrative form) the steps to go about in
       researching, compiling and sifting through the legislative history
       documents of recent and historical U.S. public laws. (LLSDC's
       Legislative Source Book)
   Guide to the U.S. Federal Legal System: Web-Based Publicly Accessible
       Sources
       Compiled by Reference Librarian Gretchen Feltes. (NYU School of
       Law)
   How Our Laws Are Made
       A basic outline of the numerous steps of our federal lawmaking
       process from the source of an idea for a legislative proposal
       through its publication as a statute. Updated by Charles W.
       Johnson, Parliamentarian, U.S. House of Representatives. (House of
       Representatives)
   U.S. Government Documents: The Legislative Process
       This excellent guide traces the process by which a bill becomes a
       law and includes links to full text Internet sources. (Columbia U.
       Libraries)
       Text of Congressional Bills
   Bill summary for House and Senate Bills
       Bill summary and status since 1973. (Library of Congress)
   Bill text for House and Senate Bills
       Bill text since 101st Congress (1989-90). (Library of Congress)
   Bill text for House and Senate Bills
       Bill text since 103rd Congress (1993-94). (GPO)
   Congress in the News
       Current bills (and public laws from several previous Congresses)
       recently receiving coverage in newspapers and in TV and radio news.
       Click on a letter of the alphabet or use the "Find in Page" command
       of your browser to search for your keyword, e.g. "cloning," "health
       insurance," "taxes," "veterans." (Library of Congress)
   History of Bills
       The History of Bills and Resolutions is a section of the
       Congressional Record Index that provides information about all
       bills and resolutions introduced during that session of Congress.
       The database is updated daily, usually the day after publication of
       the Congressional Record. Each year is available for searching
       individually, however, searching the Historical database searches
       all years except for the current year. Entries for each bill
       include actions that are reported in the Congressional Record and
       reference issue and date and pages where the action is reported.
       (GPO)
       House and Senate Calendars
   House and Senate Calendars
       (GPO Gate)
   House Committee Hearing Schedules and Oversight Plans
       (Library of Congress)
   Roll Call Hill Directory: House, Senate and Committee Schedules
       Committee Schedules for today, this week, 14 days or this month.
       (Roll Call)
   Senate Legislative Calendar
       Links to Title Page and Pending/Unfinished Business, Cross Index of
       Measures to General Order Numbers, Measures Placed on Calendar
       Under General Orders Resolutions/Motions Ordered to Lie Over, Bills
       and Joint Resolutions Read the First Time, Motions for
       Reconsideration, Bills in Conference, Status of Appropriations
       Bills (Senate)
       Committee Hearings
   Congressional Hearings
       A limited number of Congressional hearings are available via GPO
       Access since the 105th Congress (1997-98). (GPO)
   Quick Links to House and Senate Committee Documents and Hearings
       (Law Librarians' Society of Washington, D.C.)
   Congressional Hearings on the Web
       This guide documents electronic sources of Congressional hearings
       available to the public without cost. References to some hearings
       identified here date back to 1995. This guide predates the LLSDC
       guide. (U. of Michigan)
   House of Representatives Committee Hearings
       Selected committee hearings transcripts. (House)
   Senate Committee on the Judiciary Published Hearings
       List of Senate hearing numbers, judiciary serial numbers, and
       titles for published hearings from 100th to present Congress. There
       are a few links to full text. (Senate)
   U.S. Congressional Bibliographies
       A comprehensive listing of Hearings, Prints, and Publications
       printed by the Senate, 1983 to the present, and printed by the
       House, 1994 to the present. (North Carolina State)
       Reports
   U.S. Serial Set
       The Serial Set contains the House and Senate Documents and the
       House and Senate Reports. At this time the site includes volumes
       printed in the 23rd (1833-35), 56th (1899-1901) and 58th
       (1903-1905) Congresses. (Library of Congress)
   House and Senate Committee Reports
       Since the 104th Congress (1995-96) (Library of Congress)
   Senate, House and Executive Reports
       Reports since 104th Congress (1995-96). (GPO)
   Senate, House and Treaty Documents
       Documents since 104th Congress (1995-96). (GPO)
       Floor Action
   Congressional Record
       Since 101st Congress (1989-90). (Library of Congress)
   Congressional Record Index
       Since 103rd Congress, 2nd Session (1994). (Library of Congress)
   Congressional Record
       Since 103rd Congress, 2nd Session (1994). (GPO)
   Congressional Record Index
       Since 98th Congress (1983-84). (GPO)
       Voting Records
   C-Span Congressional Votes Library
       Search the library for votes arranged by member, month or subject.
       Since 104th Congress, 2nd Session (1994) (C-Span)
   House of Representatives Roll Call Votes
       As compiled by the electronic voting machine under the direction of
       the Clerk of the House. Since 101st Congress, 2nd Session (1990).
       (House)
   Roll Call Votes and Member Voting Records
       House and Senate Roll Call Votes, Voting Records of Members of
       Congress, Special Interest Group Ratings. (Library of Congress)
   Senate Roll Call Votes
       As compiled through Senate LEGIS by the Senate Bill Clerk. Since
       101st Congress, 1st Session (1989) (Library of Congress)
       Presidential Action
   Presidential Executive Orders
       Numerical listing of Executive Orders available electronically
       starting in 1961. (GSA)
   Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
       Record of Presidential signings and vetoes. Since 1993. (GPO)
       Public Laws
   Public Laws
       Search by bill number or word or phrase since 93rd Congress
       (1973-74). (Library of Congress)
   Major Legislation by Popular or Short Title
       Contains links to major bills and amendments in the 105th Congress.
       Browse by short or popular titles listed alphabetically, or use the
       "Find" command of your Web browser to search for a word or phrase
       in a short or popular title. (Library of Congress)
   U.S. Statutes at Large
       United States Statutes at Large, commonly referred to as Statutes
       at Large, is the official source for the laws and resolutions
       passed by Congress. The seventeen volumes presented in this online
       collection cover the laws of the first forty-two Congresses,
       1789-1873. (Library of Congress)
       Miscellaneous Reports
   Congressional Research Service WWW Accessible Reports
       Compiled by librarian Gary Price to serve as a clearinghouse to the
       many Congressional Research (CRS) reports that are accessible via
       the WWW. Recently, links to materials from other legislative
       research organizations have been added. (George Washington U.)

Federal Statutes

   United States Code
       Titles 1 through 50 current through January 23, 2000. Database
       includes all official U.S. code notes and appendices as well as the
       Table of Popular Names. (House of Representatives)
          + Use this site to Search Prior Versions of the Code back to
            1988 edition Supplement II, 1/2/1991. (House)
          + Use the How To Page to help you set up searches. (House)
          + Use the Table of Popular Names if you know the name of a
            public law, but not its citation. (Cornell)
          + Use Westlaw or Lexis for more current online information.
   U.S. Code Classification Tables
       To update the Code, the tables list all of the sections of the U.S.
       Code that have been amended since the last time the text of those
       sections were published in the Code. The Table covers Public Laws
       106-1 through Current and is available both in public law order and
       in U.S. Code title and section number order. (House of
       Representatives)

Federal Administrative Regulations

   Code of Federal Regulations
       (1996-Current) Previous editions will be maintained on the site as
       a historical set. Keyword search entire set of CFRs or your choice
       of CFR titles. Also retrieve CFR sections by citation. (GPO)
   List of CFR Sections Affected
       To update CFR citation, either search in Federal Register by
       keyword, CFR cite (ex."40 CFR part 55") or search CFR Parts
       affected (check box marked "Reader Aids", search by specific date.)
       (GPO)
   Federal Register
       Since v.60 (1995) (GPO)

Federal Executive Branch Web Sites

   Official Executive Branch Web Sites
       Links to Executive Office of the President, executive agencies,
       independent agencies, boards, commissions and committees, and
       quasi-official agencies (the Smithsonian).(Library of Congress)
   Federal Web Locator
       Organization of links to federal government sites matches the
       structure found in the United States Government Manual, published
       by the Government Printing Office. (Chicago Kent)
   United States Government Manual
       2001-2002 ed. Browse the current edition in ASCII text and PDF
       format. Also see manuals back to 1995-1996. (NARA)
   The White House
       Search press releases, radio addresses and other material since
       2001. The Clinton Presidential Materials have been removed from the
       White House site and are now available at the Clinton Presidential
       Materials Project on the National Archives site. You can search all
       four versions of the Clinton White House web sites. Scroll down to
       the Virtual Library at the bottom of the page to locate executive
       orders and other publicly released White House publications.
        "I Do Solemnly Swear..." Presidential Inaugurations
            (Library of Congress)
        Portraits of the Presidents
            (National Portrait Gallery)
        Presidential Directives and Executive Orders
            The President's policy decisions in matters of foreign policy
            and national security are announced by decision directives,
            organized here by President from Truman to Clinton.
            (Federation of American Scientists)
        Presidential Documents
            Presidential Documents on NARA web sites, including Executive
            orders, Proclamations and other Presidential Documents.
            Includes the Executive Orders Disposition Tables, Codification
            of Executive Orders and Proclamations, and links to the Weekly
            Compilation of Presidential Documents, the Public Papers of
            the Presidents (so far only Bill Clinton, George Bush and
            Ronald Reagan), the NARA's Presidential Libraries home page,
            and the NARA Online Research Room for Presidential materials.
            (NARA)
             Presidential Executive Orders Disposition Tables
                 Executive Orders Disposition Tables from E.O.10432,
                 January 24, 1953 -- Current. Includes title, signature
                 date, Federal Register citation, and detailed history of
                 amendments and revocations and text since 1995. (NARA)
             Codification of Presidential Proclamations and Executive
                 Orders
                 The Codification covers April 13, 1945, through January
                 20, 1989, spanning the administrations of Harry S. Truman
                 through Ronald Reagan. (NARA)
        Presidential Executive Orders
            Numerical listing of Executive Orders available electronically
            from 1961 to 1999. (GSA)

Federal Administrative Opinions

   Compilations of Decisions
   Federal Administrative Decisions & Other Actions
       Compiled by a law librarian at the University of Virgina, this
       useful site gathers administrative actions which are outside the
       scope of the CFR or the FR, including opinions, directives, and
       orders. Search by subject or by agency. (U. of Virginia)
   Administrative Decisions Resources on GPO Access
       (GPO)
   U.S. Federal Administrative Decisions
       Compiled by law librarian Paul Axel-Lute, this site gathers
       administrative decisions and may have different sites than the U.
       of Virginia compilation. (Rutgers U.)
       Selected Individual Sites
   Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals
       ASBCA decisions, rules and other documents. Includes March and
       April 1996, December 1997, and January 1998 to Current. Since
       January 2000 in PDF format. Earlier material in Microsoft Word
       format. (ASBCA)
   Black Lung Collection
       Newsletters on recent published decisions, Benefits Review Board
       decisions on Black Lung and Longshore cases, both published and
       unpublished opinions since 1989, Black Lung Deskbook and Judge's
       Benchbook on Black Lung, statutory and regulatory materials, and
       miscellaneous federal court decisions concerning the Black Lung
       Benefits Act. (Department of Labor)
   Commodities Futures Trading Commission Opinions and Orders
       Opinions since February 1997. Also includes No Action and
       Interpretative letters. (CFTC)
   Comptroller General Decisions and Opinions
       Click on GAO Legal Products. Only the past 60 days are on the GAO
       site. Link to GPO Access site for opinions since January 1996.
       (GAO)
   Court of Federal Claims
       Since 1997. This site contains published opinions and orders of the
       United States Court of Federal Claims as well as rules. (Dept. of
       Commerce)
   Employees' Compensation Appeals Board Decisions
       ECAB Headnotes, Volumes 39-44, ECAB Decisions, Volume 44, ECAB
       Decisions, Volume 45 and following. (ECAB)
   ERISA Exemptions and Determinations
       (PWBA)
   ERISA Advisory Opinions
       Since 1992. (PWBA)
   Federal Labor Relations Authority Cases and Case Summaries
       Since 1994. (FLRA)
   Merit Systems Protection Board Opinions
       Since 1994-95. (MSPB)
   National Labor Relations Board Opinions and Orders
       Since v.321, July 1996. (NLRB)

Federal Administrative Material

   Department of the Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties
       Department Circular 570; Current revision. (FMS)
   Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
       Includes laws and regulations and a library. (ECAB)
   EEOC Compliance Manual and Enforcement Guidances
       This site includes a section called Laws, Regulations and Policy
       Guidance which links to the Compliance Manual (sections 2,3,8 and
       10 are online) and the Enforcement Guidances since 1990. (EEOC)
   Federal Bureau of Prisons
       Includes a directory of correctional institutions, BOP publications
       and policies. (BOP)
   GAO Reports and Policies
       Site includes Principles of Federal Appropriations Law. To find it,
       click on Other Publications, then click on Complete Listing, and
       scroll down the alphabetical list to see the three volumes in
       separate pdf files. (GAO)
   Internal Revenue Manual
       The IRM (plus the Chief Counsel Directives Manual) contains the
       policies, procedures, instructions, and guidelines used by the
       Internal Revenue Service. (IRS)
   Internal Revenue Private Letter Rulings
       Starting with 1999. Taxpayer-specific rulings or determinations are
       written memoranda furnished by the IRS National Office in response
       to requests by taxpayers under published annual guidelines.
       Technical advice memoranda are written memoranda furnished by the
       National Office of the IRS upon request of a district director or
       chief appeals officer pursuant to annual review procedures. Chief
       Counsel advice are written advice or instructions prepared by the
       Office of Chief Counsel and issued to field or service center
       employees of the IRS or Office of Chief Counsel. It is important to
       note that pursuant to 26 USC ยง 6110(j)(3), such items cannot be
       used or cited as precedent. (IRS)
   Medicare and Medicaid Program Manuals
       (HCFA)
   OMB Circulars
       Arranged in numerical order or by subject category. (OMB)
   Securities and Exchange Commission
       EDGAR, the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
       system, performs automated collection, validation, indexing,
       acceptance, and forwarding of submissions by companies and others
       who are required by law to file forms with the U.S. Securities and
       Exchange Commission. Use the site to find annual filings of company
       information like Form 10-Ks. (SEC) For real-time access, with no
       delay in posting reports, and free access to indexed SEC filings,
       allowing search by name, SIC or ticker symbol, use FreeEDGAR by
       Partes.
   U.S. Attorney's Manual
       Available for downloading. (DOJ)
   U.S. Trustee Manual
       Includes v.1 (Overview), v.2 (Chapter 7), v.3 (Chapter 11), v.4
       (Chapter 12 and 13), v.5 (Bankruptcy Fraud and Abuse) and v.6
       (Administrative Policies). In pdf and/or WordPerfect. (DOJ)

Federal Military Materials

   Manual for Courts Martial
       1995 edition. (JAG)
   Uniform Code of Military Justice
       (Air War College)
   DefenseLINK
       General information, facts, reports, regulations and forms and a
       publication archive. Includes a link to the Directives and Records
       Branch where you can link to the DoD Issuances. (DOD)
   U.S. Army Publishing Agency Home Page
       Leads to the 5 Official Army Publications Web Sites. (U.S. Army)

                           State and Local Resources

State Court Opinions

   Illinois Opinions
       Supreme Court opinions since May 23, 1996 and Appellate Court
       opinions since September 1996. (State of Illinois)
   Indiana Opinions
       Supreme Court, Court of Appeals and Tax Court 1995 and 1996
       opinions only. (Indiana U.)
   Indiana Opinions
       Supreme Court, Court of Appeals and Indiana Tax Court opinions
       since October 1997, including a Judicial Opinions Archives and
       information about the courts, judges and court administration.
       (State of Indiana)
   Wisconsin Opinions
       Supreme Court and Courts of Appeals opinions since September 1995
       as well as information about the Wisconsin Judicial System,
       including history of the court, biography and portraits of the
       justices of the Supreme Court, as well as forms. (State of
       Wisconsin)
   State Court Locator
       Provides links to state judiciary home pages and opinions.
       (Villanova)
   State Courts - By Jurisdiction
       Provides links to state appellate court sites and opinions.
       (Cornell)

State Court Rules

   Illinois Code of Civil Procedure
       Chapter 735. (State of Illinois)
   Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure
       Chapter 725. (State of Illinois)
   Illinois Judicial Circuit Court Rules
       Compiled by librarian Heija B. Ryoo. (Southern Illinois U. School
       of Law)
   Indiana
       Title 34. State Code of Civil Procedure. (State of Indiana)
   Indiana
       Title 35. State Code of Criminal Procedure. (State of Indiana)
   Wisconsin
       Circuit Court and other judicial rules. (Wisconsin State Bar)
   Wisconsin
       Includes Supreme Court Rules, Supreme Court Internal Operating
       Procedures and Court of Appeals Internal Operating Procedures.
       (Wisconsin)
   Court Rules, Forms and Dockets
       Comprehensive listing of Federal and State court rules, forms and
       dockets available on the Internet, compiled by the editors at Law
       Librarian's Resource Xchange. (LLRX)

State Jury Instructions

   Alaska Civil Pattern Jury Instructions
       These instructions are being reviewed and edited by a committee
       appointed by the Alaska Court System but have not yet been approved
       or promulgated by the Court. (Alaska Court System)
   Alaska Criminal Pattern Jury Instructions
       (Alaska Court System)
   Arizona Revised Criminal Pattern Jury Instructions
       (Arizona CLE)
   California Civil Jury Instructions
       Click on California Civil Jury Instruction button on left. (Netlaw
       Libraries, Inc.)
   Pattern Jury Instructions for Civil Practice in the Superior Court of
       the State of Delaware
       (Delaware Superior Ct.)
   Florida Statewide Jury Instructions, Ninth Judicial Circuit Court
       (Ninth Judicial Circuit Court)
   Hawaii Standard Civil Jury Instructions
       (Supreme Court of the State of Hawaii)
   Idaho Civil Jury Instructions
       (Idaho Law Foundation)
   Massachusetts Model Jury Instructions on Homicide
       Draft Report of the Supreme Judicial Court Committee on Model Jury
       Instructions on Homicide. (Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court)
   Minnesota Criminal Jury Instructions
       (Sixth District Public Defender)
   New Jersey Model Civil Charges
       (State of New Jersey Judiciary)
   New Jersey Model Criminal Jury Charges
       (State of New Jersey Judiciary)
   New York Criminal Jury Charges
       (State of New York Unified Court System)
   Oklahoma Uniform Jury Instructions - Civil and Criminal
       (Oklahoma Supreme Court)
   Tennessee Pattern Jury Instructions (Criminal)
       (Tennessee District Attorneys General Conference)

State Legislative Sites

   Illinois Legislative Information
       Includes links to Legislation, Public Acts, Illinois Compiled
       Statutes and Illinois General Assembly member information. Go to
       Illinois Legislative Services for additional links including Senate
       Schedules, House Schedules, Journals and Roll Calls, Illinois
       Compiled Statutes, Illinois Constitution, Public Acts, Legislation
       and Legislative Support Services. (State of Illinois)
   Indiana Legislative Information
       Includes Indiana General Assembly member information. (State of
       Indiana)
   Wisconsin Legislative Information
       Includes Wisconsin Blue Book, member information, Acts since 1995,
       hearings calendars and other information. (State of Wisconsin)
   Internet Sites of the State Legislatures
       Lists sites of the legislatures and legislator home pages for all
       50 states. (National Center for State Courts)
   State Constitutions, Statutes and Legislative Information
       (Cornell)

State Legislative History

   Illinois Legislative Information
       Public Acts since the 90th General Assembly (1997-1998) (State of
       Illinois)
   Indiana Legislative Information
       Complete bill information from current session. (State of Indiana)
   Wisconsin Legislation
       Bills and resolutions introduced in the current Wisconsin
       Legislature as well as previous sessions, starting with 1995-96
       Wisconsin bills, joint resolutions, and resolutions. (State of
       Wisconsin)

State Statutes

   Illinois Constitution
       (State of Illinois)
   Illinois Compiled Statutes
       Updated through Public Act 91-954, February 23, 2001. (Legislative
       Reference Bureau)
   Indiana Constitution
       (Indiana U.)
   Indiana Code
       Modified through the 2000 Regular Session. Searchable and
       downloadable as WPD or PDF. (Legislative Services Agency)
   Wisconsin Constitution
       Available in Folio format for searching or PDF format for viewing
       and printing. (State of Wisconsin)
   Wisconsin Statutes
       1999-2000 statutes and annotations. (Updated through May 1, 2001)
       Statutory changes effective prior to May 2, 2001 are reproduced as
       if currently in effect. Statutory changes effective on or after May
       2, 2001 are designated by NOTES. (State of Wisconsin)

State Executive Agency Sites

   Illinois Government Information (IGI)
       Illinois Gateway: Links and Resources lists all Illinois state
       government agencies. (State of Illinois)
   Access Indiana
       The State of Indiana has redesigned its site, reorganizing into 10
       distinct categories, so you will be able to easily utilize its
       online services. State Agencies Index lists all Indiana state
       government agencies. (State of Indiana)
   Wisconsin.gov
       The State of Wisconsin has also redesigned its site so you can
       access all areas of Wisconsin government easily. The site even
       includes lottery results. A Wisconsin State Agency page lists all
       Wisconsin state government agencies. (State of Wisconsin)
   Illinois
       (Piper Resources)
   Indiana
       (Piper Resources)
   Wisconsin
       (Piper Resources)
   National Association of Secretaries of State
       Links to each state's Secretary of State web site, good for
       checking on corporations. (NASS)
   State and Local Government on the Net
       A guide to government sponsored Internet sites for all states,
       including state, regional, county and city links. (Piper Resources)
   State Government and Politics
       (U. of Michigan)
   State Legislatures, State Laws and State Regulations, Website Links and
       Telephone Numbers
       Handy scrolldown page with direct links and telephone numbers to
       each state government operator, legislative assemblies, legislative
       reference center, and state law library. (LLSDC)
   State Web Locator
       (Chicago-Kent)

State Regulations

   Illinois Administrative Code
       Table of Contents only. (Index Department)
       Illinois agencies publish their own rules at the following sites:
        Children and Family Services
        Human Rights
        Labor
        Nuclear Safety
        Professional Regulation
        Public Aid
        Revenue
        State Fire Marshal
       Illinois boards and commissions publish their own rules at the
       following sites:
        Commerce Commission
        Environmental Protection Agency
        Industrial Commission
        Liquor Control Commission
        Office of Banks and Real Estate
        Pollution Control Board
        Property Tax Appeal Board
   Illinois Administrative Code
       Table of Contents only. (Index Department)
   Indiana Administrative Code
       Updated regularly. (Legislative Services Agency)
   Indiana Register
       Online since October 1, 1999, volume 23, no. 1. (Legislative
       Services Agency)
   Wisconsin Administrative Code
       Updated monthly. (Wisconsin Revisor of Statutes)
   Wisconsin Administrative Register
       Online since November 15, 1997, no. 503. (Wisconsin Revisor of
       Statutes)
   Administrative Codes and Registers
       Internet access to administrative rules for all states. (National
       Association of Secretaries of State)
   Administrative Law Resources Arranged by State
       Links to Findlaw resource for each state. (FSU)

                             Local Government Links

Municipal Government

   Municipal Codes Online
       List of links to city and county codes available for unrestricted
       searching on the World Wide Web. There are actually two separate
       areas to check on this site - there is a list of 6 Code Publishers
       at the top of the page, followed by a listing called Other Codes
       Online, broken down by state. Each Code Publisher must be searched
       individually; the state by state listing does not include the
       cities on the Code Publishers list. (Seattle Public Library)
   Municipal Codes
       List of links to city codes. Because this is one of the publishers
       listed separately in the site above, its listings will be different
       than the state by state listing above. Be sure and check both
       municipal code sites. This site now includes the following cities,
       among many others - Chicago, Peoria and Springfield, Illinois;
       Indianapolis and South Bend, Indiana; and Madison, Wisconsin.
       (Municipal Codes Corporation)
       Just because you do not see the city code on one of the sites
       above, do not assume that an Internet version does not exist. Some
       cities or counties may place their codes on their own web pages. As
       an example, the city code for Fort Wayne, Indiana is on the city
       web site, but not on the Municipal Codes Online pages. Use a
       resource like Piper Resources State and Local Government on the Net
       to check your city.
   City of Chicago Building Code
       (Chicago Dept. of Buildings)
   City Governments
       Arranged by state. (NewsDirectory.com)
   State and Local Government on the Net
       A guide to government sponsored Internet sites for all states,
       including state, regional, county and city links. (Piper Resources)
   State and Local Government Information
       Meta-indexes for state and local government information, state
       maps, state government information. (Library of Congress)

County Government

   County Codes
       Links to a limited number of county codes. Also useful is County
       Data and Demographics which gives you the ability to search by
       county name or county official's last name. (NaCo)
   Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois
       Full text circuit court rules and general orders, general
       administrative rules and orders. (Cook County)
   County Governments
       Arranged by state. (NewsDirectory.com)
   State and Local Government on the Net
       A guide to government sponsored Internet sites for all states,
       including state, regional, county and city links. (Piper Resources)

                            Legal Subject Resources

Bankruptcy Resources

   ABI World
       The "premier site for bankruptcy information on the Web,"
       established by the American Bankruptcy Institute for insolvency
       professionals. Resources include Today's Bankruptcy Headlines,
       Media Stats and Information, Consumer Info Center, Bankruptcy
       Library, Legislative News, ABI Journal, Conferences, Membership,
       ABI On-Line, Document Archive, Certified Bankruptcy Specialists,
       National Bankruptcy Review Commission Final Report & Information.
       (American Bankruptcy Institute)
   Bankruptcy Law Finder
       Warren Agin, a Boston attorney, has put together an excellent
       bankruptcy site which includes sections on Cases, statutes and
       regulations, Bankruptcy Law Resources, Government Resources, Vendor
       Pages with Products and Services for bankruptcy professionals, an
       On-line Bookstore provided in association with Amazon.com.,
       Frequently Asked Bankruptcy Law Questions Designed for individuals
       curious about bankruptcy law, links to Other Bankruptcy Sites, and
       General Legal Resources. (Agin)
   Bankruptcy Law Materials
       Links to federal material including the Federal Bankruptcy Code,
       the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, Federal Rules of Bankruptcy
       Procedure, and the Internal Revenue regulations pertaining to
       bankruptcy (26 CFR). Also includes court decisions, state material,
       and a search engine. (Cornell)
   Commercial Law League of America
       Contains news and information, materials and publications, coverage
       of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, an online discussion
       area, the Commercial Law Journal and the Commercial Law Bulletin
       (for members only), and information on certification of attorneys
       and collection agencies. (CLLA)
   Debtor and Creditor Law Materials
       Links to federal material including the Federal Tax Lien Act, Fair
       Debt Collection Practices Act, Consumer Credit Protection Act, Code
       of Federal Regulations, federal judicial decisions. State material
       includes some state statutes, and state judicial decisions. Other
       references include key internet sources and useful offline sources.
       (Cornell)
   National Bankruptcy Review Commission
       Includes the Report of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission.
   National Conference of Bankruptcy Clerks
   Official Bankruptcy Forms
       In pdf format. (AOUS)
   United States Bankruptcy Clerk's Offices
       Scroll down a bit to get to a list of links to the address and
       telephone numbers for the U.S. bankruptcy clerks. Also includes
       links to the Bankruptcy Court websites. (Bankruptcydata.com)
   United States Trustee Program
       Also see U.S. Trustee Manual which includes v.1 (Overview), v.2
       (Chapter 7), v.3 (Chapter 11), v.4 (Chapter 12 and 13), v.5
       (Bankruptcy Fraud and Abuse) and v.6 (Administrative Policies). In
       pdf and/or WordPerfect. (DOJ)
   U.S.T.P. Bankruptcy Statistics

Copyright and Patent Resources

   AIPLA's Guide to Model Patent Jury Instructions
   Copyright and Fair Use
       (Stanford U.)
   Delphion Intellectual Property Network
       Access U.S. Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO) patent descriptions
       since 1971. At this site Delphion offers free patent field
       searching, date ranging, and the ability to page through search
       results. Search and view patent documents from the U.S. and Europe
       as well as patent applications published by the World Intellectual
       Property Office (WIPO). There are charges for document downloads.
       (Delphion)
   Intellectual Property Resource Links
       (NESL)
   Patent, Trademark and Copyright Sites
       (AIPLA)
   U.S. Copyright Office
   U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
       Access the 8th edition of the Manual of Patent Examining Procedure
       in PDF format. The 7th edition is available in ASCII text. (USPTO)

Criminal Law Resources

   Federal Bureau of Prisons
       Includes a directory of correctional institutions, grouped
       according to level of security, BOP publications and policies. The
       Freedom of Information Act (5 USC 552) and the Privacy Act of 1974
       (5 USC 552a) authorize the release of certain information about
       Federal inmates to any member of the general public requesting it.
       This includes information such as name, age, and register number,
       as well as sentencing and confinement data (offense, date
       sentenced, institution of confinement, etc.). This site explains
       how to get that information. (BOP)
   Federal Defenders in Central Illinois
       Includes the Back Bencher, a newsletter which summarizes criminal
       cases in the Seventh Circuit. The site also has a downloadable PDF
       section detailing possible issues for review in criminal appeals.
   Federal Sentencing Guidelines Manuals and Amendments
       Includes current 2000 manual as well as manuals from 1994 - 1998
       and amendments from 1998. (USSC)
   Jeff Flax's Home Page : Focusing on Legal Resources on the Internet
       Jeff Flax is with the Office of the Federal Public Defender in
       Denver, CO. His page lists many criminal law oriented sites and
       investigative resources.
   Resources for Managing Capital Cases
       Includes the Resource Guide for Managing Capital Cases Vol.1:
       Federal Death Penalty Trials. (FJC)

Employment Law Resources

   Title VII and Section 1981: A Guide for Appointed Attorneys in the
       Northern District of Illinois.
       For use by attorneys appointed to represent indigent clients in
       employment discrimination cases. (Cynthia Wilson: Chicago Lawyer's
       Committee for Civil Rights Under Law)

Indian Law Resources

   Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties
       Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler, and originally published
       in 1903-1904, this is an historically significant, seven volume
       compilation of U.S. treaties, laws and executive orders pertaining
       to Native American Indian tribes. The volumes cover U.S. Government
       treaties and U.S. laws and executive orders concerning Native
       Americans from 1778-1970. Volume I-III are now available. (Oklahoma
       State)
   Indian Affairs Manual
       Parts of the manual are available on this site. (Bureau of Indian
       Aff
