http://hrdd.grc.nasa.gov/nextgenarch.shtml

   Space Communications Home Page



   Index corner   Index corner
     Next Generation Architectures

   Bullet Space Communication Architectures
   Bullet Integrated Architecture Framework and its Elements
   Bullet High Rate Backbone Networks
   Bullet Flexible Access Networks
   Bullet Inter-spacecraft Cooperative Networks
   Bullet Proximity Wireless Networks
   Bullet Intelligent Communication Architectures
     Index corner   Index corner
   Space Communication Architectures
   NASA, DoD, and Industry are developing several communications
   architectures.   Capabilities are added to these architectures as new
   requirements in space communication are addressed and as new ideas and
   innovation permit.  We are developing an integrated architectural
   framework that can continually adapt to the upgrading of requirements
   that are expected in the future.  The architectural elements of this
   framework are the reference for identifying the critical technologies
   needed for the implementation of the networks and the future
   missions.  While it is NASAs intent that future missions will be
   implemented with networked communications technologies and common
   interfaces, it is a goal of the Space Communication Project to ensure
   that the networks and technologies can appropriately address the needs
   of the future missions. Thus, the recent advances in Internet based
   technologies have significant impact on future space communication
   architectures.
   Integrated Architecture Framework and its Elements
   The architectural elements are further developed by system engineering
   methodologies, usage scenarios debated in extensive workshops, and by
   inputs received from enterprise technologists and scientists. The
   technology roadmaps to achieve the desired architectural
   implementations are also developed.
   These architectures are based on current Internet like technologies and
   include several layers including:
          + Application
          + Transport
          + Network
          + Data Link
          + Physical

   Currently we have divided the architectures into the following
   architectural elements.
   High Rate Backbone Networks
   High Rate Backbone Networks - Click to enlarge. The backbone elements
   of the Space Internet are entities that handle the passing of data to
   other infrastructure entities. These entities include the Tracking and
   data Relay Satellites, the ground side (LANs and WANs) of the rest of
   the Space Network, the ground side (LANs and WANs) of the Ground
   Networks and the Deep Space Networks, the other NASA/CSOC LANs and WANs
   used to pass data to the operations centers, and the Internet itself.
   Future backbone elements will include any commercial communication
   satellite that moves NASA satellite data and any other in-space relay
   entity that augments or replaces the Space Network or Deep Space
   Network.
   Backbone elements have the following characteristics:
          + 10Gbps to GEO, 100Mbps to L1 or L2, 10Mbps to Mars, 1 Mbps to
            Jupiter
          + 10-20 year life
          + Includes RF and optical communications systems
          + New in-space elements will incorporate server capabilities,
            intelligence, and the ability to provide service on-demand of
            the user mission entity.

   Flexible Access Networks
   Flexible Access Networks - Click to enlarge. The access elements are
   those entities that enable a spacecraft or other mission entity to
   connect to and communicate through the backbone. Access elements
   residing on the spacecraft include the main communications system used
   for sending data to Earth and  for receiving instructions from Earth.
   Access elements also include the communications packages at the edges
   of the backbone networks that send instructions to and receive data
   from the mission elements. The spacecraft s on-board LAN is an access
   element as it enables the individual instrument to access the backbone
   as well as on-board services. The user s ISP is his access point to the
   Internet and also to the backbone.
   Access elements have the following characteristics:
          + 10Gbps from GEO, 100Mbps from L1 or L2, 10Mbps from Mars, 1
            Mbps from Jupiter
          + 5-7 year life
          + Includes RF and optical communications systems
          + Low power (1-10W), mass (.5-5kg), and ($5k-$50k) cost hardware
            items.
          + New in-space elements will incorporate intelligence and the
            ability to request service when necessary.

   Inter-spacecraft Cooperative Networks
   Inter-spacecraft Cooperative Networks - Click to enlarge.
   Inter-spacecraft: Inter-spacecraft elements are those communications
   packages used for intercommunications between spacecraft flying in
   formation, in clusters, or in constellations.  These packages are used
   to pass data between spacecraft for the coordination of activities such
   as maintenance of relative positions, performance of formation
   maneuvers, distribution of data processing, triggering and
   synchronization of measurement events, timing of event reception, and
   aggregation of data at a spacecraft that has access to the backbone and
   that passes that data to the users. These packages may also provide the
   measurement capabilities needed to support the coordination of relative
   positioning.
   Inter-spacecraft elements have the following characteristics:
          + 100Mbps over 100 meters, 50Mbps over 1km, 1Mbps over 100km
          + 5-7 year life
          + Includes RF and optical communications systems
          + Low power (1-10W), mass (.1-2kg), and ($0.5k-$5k) cost
            hardware items.
          + New in-space elements will incorporate intelligence, ad hoc
            structure building capability, and multi-casting capability

   Proximity Wireless Networks
   Proximity Wireless Networks - Click to enlarge. Proximity: The
   proximity elements are those very short range, very low power, very low
   cost, somewhat shortlived communications packages that are used to
   inter-communicate between small science packages such as individual
   sensors spread about an area, rovers, landers and other landed entities
   that are closely spaced. Proximity elements are typically connected
   together in an ad hoc communications structure where data is relayed
   between elements until it is received by a landed entity that can
   provide access to a backbone element.
   Proximity elements have the following characteristics:
          + 1Mbps over 10 meters, 100kbps over 30m, 10kbps over 100m
          + 0.1-1 year life
          + Low power (10-100mW), mass (2-50g), and ($5-$50) cost hardware
            items.
          + New in-space elements will incorporate intelligence and ad hoc
            structure building capability.

   Intelligent Communication Architectures
   The space Internet architectures will handle autonomous access
   on-demand of the user or user spacecraft. Whatever scheduling of
   communications services that remains to be done will be handled with
   smart software systems that take into account availability of assets as
   well as those issues of priority of backbone access that remain after
   access on-demand is implemented. The architecture will also include
   in-space facilities such as servers that will be used to implement
   in-space email, video and voice streaming, Java, and XML services. The
   architecture will provide those network and protocol services that are
   of general use to all missions.

   NASA Meatball with link to NASA Home Page

                    Responsible NASA Official: Kul Bhasin
     To report problems with this site, please contact the curator: Greg
                                   Sloane
                 NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland Ohio
                           NASA Privacy Statement
                                      .
