http://sfablueprint.ed.gov/pdf/Mb_ch1.pdf

   8 6 'HSDUWPHQW RI (GXFDWLRQ 6WXGHQW )LQDQFLDO $VVLVWDQFH 6)$
   0RGHUQL]DWLRQ %OXHSULQW ([HFXWLYH 6XPPDU\ Progress Update July 15, 2000
   Where we are today... WORKING TOGETHER, WE'RE GETTING THE JOB DONE
   RIGHT Dear Colleague, As we release this second edition of the SFA
   Modernization Blueprint, we're really encour- aged. It's been a great
   six months. Things aren't perfect. There's a lot of work to do. But we
   are continuing to roll out dozens of new products and services to serve
   our partners and the student who is working to get through school.
   We've seen positive reactions to these products by their end users.
   We've also tested and proved some key concepts, demonstrating, for
   example, that middleware works with our legacy systems. We launched
   IPTs (Integrated Product Teams) for product development. IPTs bring
   together schools, partnership institutions and organizations, and SFA
   staff members, all focused on a particular design and development
   project to improve student aid delivery. They help us get the job done
   right. All this action, all this work, has affected the Modernization
   Blueprint. Our Sequencing Plan, representing progress on specific
   products and process improvements, is noticeably different from the
   first edition. We've also introduced concepts like Web portals, the
   hottest new way to simplify, expand, and improve information and tool
   delivery. We're working on portals for students, schools, financial
   partners, and our own employees. It seems like only yesterday we were
   releasing the first edition of the Modernization Blueprint and meeting
   with those of you in the community to gather your comments and input.
   As you read this second edition and think about how it might help as a
   guide to the plans, products, and services of SFA I believe you too
   will see how far we've come and how much real progress has already been
   made. I remain absolutely committed to working with you to make the
   plans spelled out here a reality-for schools, partners, and most
   importantly, students. Good to have you along for the ride. Warm
   regards, Greg Woods Chief Operating Officer Student Financial
   Assistance July 15, 2000 Page I-1 Where we are today... WHERE WE ARE
   TODAY Where We Started We started with a framework for thinking about
   technology and We've organized and staffed with new managers and a new
   business processes, and the Blueprint follows it. We cover
   Modernization Partner, Andersen Consulting. They help us identify
   requirements of our business processes, then spell out information and
   implement commercial best practices so we can improve service flows and
   technical architecture to support them. Finally, we outline and cut
   costs. what we're going to do, and when. A new approach to systems
   requirements, design testing, and acquisition is called the Integrated
   Product Team. Teams include MODERNIZATION FRAMEWORK people from inside
   SFA and the larger educational community. They are working out details,
   defining result schedules for milestones, and Modernization
   Modernization Modernization Requirements will publish specifications
   and standards we'll use internally. Architecture Sequencing Plan
   Process Technical Level I Business Process Program System Requirements
   Process Systems Chapter 5 tells you lots more about what's changing,
   and when. Sequencing Flows Chapter 2 summarizes the changes for you,
   and reminds you how to Business Subprocess Subsystem Requirements
   Subprocess Subsystems use this Blueprint. Chapters 3 and 4 will change
   more when we Level II Sequencing Flows reengineer processes and
   systems. Level III Subrelease Subrelease Subrelease Requirements Where
   are We Headed Next? Design Planning CI We're using the unifying concept
   of Web Portals to pull our legacy CI CI Development Requirements Design
   Planning systems together, with new external sources too. We're
   integrating Level IV We have built on the findings of Project EASI and
   our Customer Service Task Force. We recognized the capabilities of new
   technology, and imagined achievable possibilities. Our new business
   model of Students, Schools, Financial Partners and our own SFA
   employees reflect what people have been telling us. What's Changed?
   During the past six months we've done a lot to help you now and in the
   future. We put the Master Promissory Note into action, improved process
   flow in Direct Loan originations to cut rejects, and introduced Direct
   Loan Consolidation application processing over the Internet. We have
   already issued seven million PINS to support FAFSA on the Web and
   future Web portals. We'll issue a total of 12 million PINS to students
   and parents by mid-summer. July 15, 2000 Page I-2 Where we are today...
   WHERE WE ARE TODAY data into logical sites that everyone can use,
   transforming the hairball of our existing systems or retiring them,
   using new portals and commercial applications. Middleware is being
   selected to integrate the data. The Internet is simplifying
   communication. Pilot projects like Highway 1 and Access America for
   Students are proving we can use commercial software and business best
   practices to do this now. We've already started measuring our results
   as part of the American Customer Satisfaction Index, a key business
   survey that compares and rates enterprise performance. The following
   pages give you lots more detail about what we've done and how it
   affects the sequence of our modernization. July 15, 2000 Page I-3 Where
   we are today... SFA NEWS LEADER-SENTINEL "We Help Put America Through
   School" World's Most Educational News Stories April 2000 edition
   DELIVERING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TODAY, WHILE WE BUILD A NEW SFA FAFSA
   on the Web  One of Many SFA Improvements Web filings have doubled, with
   improved functionality, and the error rate has been cut nearly 90
   percent, so students complete the process faster. Soon 12 million
   students and parents will have electronic IDs to speed the application
   process. page 5 The Clearinghouse SFA signs a five-year deal with NSLC.
   Good news for more than four million borrowers. page 6 "FAT-Free" SFA
   announces elimination of the Financial Aid Transcript (FAT) for
   mid-year transfers. page 6 The Survey Said... SFA goes Wall Street,
   using the same customer satisfaction survey that financial giants trust
   to track who's on top. page 6 PROVING THE NEW CONCEPTS WILL WORK Web
   Portals The Door to First-Class Customer Service SFA is developing
   information gateways to personalize and customize data. This hot new
   way to give good service tops SFA's "to do" list. pages 7-8 Highway 1
   Success Story Proves Concept! Collaboration by technological giants
   proves that off-the-shelf products can teach existing SFA systems to
   work together. page 9 Middlware Role More Process Databases merged
   using an EAI bus, delivering new services faster by using new standards
   and tools. pages 9-12 IMPROVING THE WAY WE DO BUSNESS IPTs Focus on
   Solutions! Five, count `em, five new Integrated Product Teams deliver
   customer-focused solutions on critical projects. Every channel has one,
   with more to follow. pages 13-15 SFA Organizes Leadership Team and "Mod
   Partner" Around the Business Model Team focus on customers speeds
   delivery of new products and services. page 16 MAKING PROGRESS AGAINST
   OUR PLAN Update on What Has Happened Since September In the past six
   months, we've moved more applications onto the Internet, cutting errors
   and increasing the speed of financial aid delivery, and much more.
   pages 17-18 How Will Upcoming Modernization Milestones Impact Me? New
   SFA Sequencing Plan gives everyone the detail that will affect them.
   pages 19-20 July 15, 2000 Page I-4 Where we are today... DELIVERING
   PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FAFSA On the Web  One of Many Improvements Over
   the past several months, SFA has improved the functionality of 2000,
   SFA will have issued 12 million PINs to students and their FAFSA on the
   Web, making it even simpler. parents. Improved functionality has helped
   FAFSA on the Web Improvements include notification to students when
   their filings to almost double to two million-plus by the end of the
   2000- FAFSAs (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) are received
   and 2001 award year. We expect more than four million electronic when
   processing is completed. SFA worked with five states and FAFSAs for
   this award year-that is almost a million more than the college
   consortia on projects to electronically transfer data from prior
   period. By error-checking FAFSA on the Web while it's being student's
   college applications to their FAFSA on the Web forms. completed, we
   helped students cut "bad data" rejections nearly 90 Filing and checking
   the status of your FAFSA now is even easier percent and made their
   financial aid delivery faster. with the student Personal Identification
   Number. By mid-Summer 6$03/( 6)$ 352'8&76 6(59,&(6 October 1999 *
   Released EDExpress Version 5.4 November 1999 * Implemented a new,
   easier, interactive Internet-based Consolidation Application/
   Promissory Note December 1999 * Released EDExpress Application/Global
   and Packaging modules Version 6.0 January 2000 * Added electronic
   identity(PIN) to FAFSA to speed aid delivery and cut costs * Tripled
   server capacity at the Virtual Data Center to support increased use of
   FAFSA on the Web * Provided schools with downloadable, up-to-date
   information on borrowers that have entered repayment (Student Repayment
   History Reports) through NSLDS that can be used to self-monitor and
   confirm information to their system throughout the year. * Released
   EDExpress Quality Assurance Program and Refund Repayment modules
   Version 4.0 February 2000 * Implemented multi-year functionality for
   the Master Promissory Note, complementing previous plain language
   improvements in disclosure * Began Loan Origination Center processing
   for the 2000-2001 award year * Mailed 1998 draft default rates to
   schools March 2000 * Student Aid Report (SAR) can be requested over the
   Web-affects 10 million customers annually * Rolled out seven million
   PINs to students * Completed a new SFA Web site
   [http://www.ed.gov/studentaid/student.html] linked to students.gov
   (formerly Access America for Students), the "Think College Early" Web
   site, and numerous non-federal sites, representing the first phase in a
   plan to deliver a comprehensive student aid site * Incorporated
   additional functionality into the Direct Loan Origination System,
   including enhancing the change record process to reduce rejects and
   instituting the capacity for online changes and online credit checks
   via the Web * SFA Tech has over 1,600 subscribers and is growing
   steadily July 15, 2000 Page I-5 Where we are today... DELIVERING
   PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The Clearinghouse In January 2000, after a
   successful three-month pilot, SFA signed a more than four million
   borrowers. The result is up-to-the-minute, five-year performance based
   agreement with the National Student accurate, reliable student data.
   This project allows SFA to stay abreast Loan Clearinghouse. The
   Clearinghouse regularly updates its electronic of students who transfer
   schools, leave school early or take a leave of database of student
   enrollment at more than 2,300 colleges and absence. It eliminates the
   problem of students inadvertently being universities. Under the
   agreement, SFA uses electronic updates placed in repayment or default
   and saves time and expense for students, from the Clearinghouse and
   cross-references its own information on schools and the taxpayer.
   "FAT-Free" Beginning July 1, 2000, schools will be able to use NSLDS
   data, SFA will be continuously improving the timeliness of the NSLDS
   data. instead of paper Financial Aid Transcripts (FATs), for all
   students, Schools need to check NSLDS no earlier than 30 days prior to
   the including mid-year transfers. This is due in part to the positive
   feedback beginning of the first payment period for a mid-year student.
   We're in from the initial NSLDS/FAT decision. It's also due to the the
   process of consulting with schools on this project and will have
   increased confidence in the accuracy of NSLDS data, the ongoing more
   information as details are worked out. efforts to improve the
   timeliness of the data, and improvements in Pell Grant reporting,
   through use of the Recipient Financial Manager System (RFMS.) The
   Survey Said... SFA asked to participate in the first American Customer
   Satisfaction Index (ACSI) measurement of customer satisfaction with
   various "high impact" government agencies. Our first score was 63 out
   of 100. We got good marks for applications, clear information that is
   easy to get, and for the processing staff 's professionalism. Customers
   also said SFA needs to shorten and simplify the application process.
   "We're committed to getting our ACSI at least up to the average in the
   private sector, which is 73," said Greg Woods, SFA's chief operating
   officer. "We've already responded to our student customers with an
   improved electronic FAFSA, and 44 percent of applicants agreed that
   service was better during the current academic year." The ACSI is
   issued by the American Society for Quality, in conjunction with the
   University of Michigan Business School. July 15, 2000 Page I-6 Where we
   are today... Web Portals  The Door to First-Class Customer Service In
   the e-volving world of commerce, portals are becoming the * Ability to
   integrate school data with ED data  The portal premier gateways to
   information. They allow users to personalize will provide the ability
   to build in school and local and customize data flow. They improve
   access, cut the time management tools for integrating data. In
   addition, through it takes to act on new information and make it easy
   to interact query and download functionalities, in conjunction with the
   and collaborate online. Portals offer smart summaries of aggregate use
   of common data sets and elements, schools will be able data, provide
   interactive workflow, allow for internal and to easily relate
   downloaded information to information external access and
   meta-searching. You can see some good examples within their
   institutional system. of industry-leading portals at www.Amazon.com,
   MyYahoo on www.Yahoo.com, www.MSN.com, and www.Vanguard.com. * Task
   management and ED deadline information  The portal will provide access
   to and interaction with systems necessary to administer funds. Schools
   will be able to Envision the Portal Solution for Schools perform tasks
   such as requesting cash from GAPS, We're designing the Schools' portal
   not just for data transmissions submitting Pell disbursement records,
   and assigning and real-time inquiries but also to disseminate news and
   overpayments to DCS via the portal. Schools will also be updates,
   deadline reminders, regulatory information, access to able to view and
   download information about upcoming ED GAPS, "Dear Colleague" letters,
   and more. A prototype will be deadlines (PPA, FISAP, etc), results of
   their audits and ready by July 2000. Version 1.0 will incorporate
   feedback on program reviews, and leverage links to accrediting agencies
   the prototype and be available at the end of September 2000. for
   additional information. This initial portal will contain a
   re-platformed IFAP and links to related sites. We've taken several
   steps forward, including establishing "basics"  a robust search engine,
   XML structure, and powerful query tools. These basics enabled us to
   talk to initial groups of schools, servicers, vendors and ED employees
   about desired functionality of the portal, and we'll continue to
   solicit community feedback. The portal will be an e-volving product.
   Functionalities incorporated as we progress will give schools: *
   Real-time student inquiry  query student information on an aggregate
   level (such as high incidence of comment codes,) or on a student
   specific-level (such as student payment data or student information,)
   or across institutions (for students * Benchmark information  Through
   querying detailed and/or enrolled at multiple institutions.) Schools
   also will be able aggregate data, schools will be able to benchmark
   them- to view and download student detail used for reporting or selves
   against other campuses or institutions. For example, calculations, such
   as SSCR error reports and real-time schools will be able to see their
   average PLUS debt as information on delinquent students. compared to
   similar schools. * Aggregated Data  obtain and download aggregate data
   * General information  The portal will provide the ability for such as
   loan volumes, disbursements, Pell grants. Relate a school to customize
   views of information from outside data from a variety of sources and
   run summaries, such as sources, such as Daily News from Academe Today,
   Pell disbursements to zero Expected Family Contribution ASFAA, Journal
   Transcript, and others. The portal will also students. provide links to
   outside agencies such as NACUBO, CommonLine and access to ED
   publications such as "Dear * Management Status  obtain critical
   statistics such as ISIR Colleague" Letters and SFA Handbooks. volume,
   cohort default rate information, and your institution's Education
   Department profile. Schools will be able to access school-specific data
   for themselves or aggregate data on a national or regional level. July
   15, 2000 Page I-7 Where we are today... PROVING THE NEW CONCEPTS WILL
   WORK Financial Partners' Portal This tool for lending partners is
   envisioned with the following key features, and other functionality
   will be built based on partner desires: * All information on policy
   guidance and rulings. * One point for submission of fee billings and
   other required data exchange. * Access to obtain and retrieve required
   forms and software, like FAFSA. * Access to retrieve management and
   other required data regarding partner portfolio performance, and links
   to partner sites. * Ability to access and execute digital signature
   authorization, as appropriate. The First Students' Portal Features of
   Access America for Students are graduating to mainstream SFA. In the
   Students Channel, the Student Portal Project for FY 2001 will build on
   these successful pilots: * www.students.gov  gives students easy access
   to tons of government services, including financial aid. * Electronic
   ID allows remote authentication of the identities of current and
   prospective students, using the Internet, as well as an electronic
   (digital) signature processes, for logical access control and
   electronic filings. * Student Account Managerthe one-stop shop for
   financial aid information from all stakeholders-students, schools,
   lenders, and government agencies. The account lets students or schools
   view records of aid disbursements and loan origination and repayment
   information. Progress here is being integrated into the Common
   Origination and Disbursement process. July 15, 2000 Page I-8 Where we
   are today... PROVING THE NEW CONCEPTS WILL WORK Highway 1  Success
   Story Proves Concept! The Highway 1 project takes the tough road
   proving middleware A second part of the demonstration is using IBM Data
   Joiner, works in our education assistance world. This project brings
   which is a mainframe database middleware program, to pull together
   Computer Sciences Corporation, IBM, Microsoft and National data from
   NSLDS and CPS. Data Joiner is a popular commercial Computer Systems,
   together in a joint demonstration of multiple program. We're showing it
   works well with our education systems. databases working together. Data
   Joiner extracts data, translates it, and sends it to a Hewlett-Packard
   Web server running on a Microsoft NT operating system. Their task? Link
   four very different sources; use mainframe and Windows server
   technologies together; put data from across the Third, a defined data
   set is received from ELM via the Internet in a country on a series of
   Web pages tailored for a single student; use message tagged with
   Extensible Markup Language (XML). Because "live" data so real students
   can look at their own data about grant and XML tags can be applied to
   the standard ELM data, no changes loan activity, status, and balances.
   had to be made to the ELM system to transfer data to the NT-powered Web
   server. Fourth, a different defined data set is received from Part of
   the challenge is bringing together data from four different SFA's DLSS,
   also using XML tags with existing DLSS data. sources. One source is the
   SFA National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS), which is a mainframe
   database in IBM's DB2. A second A suite of three Microsoft products
   (ASP for Web pages , IIS for the source is SFA's Central Processing
   System (CPS), which is another server operation, and MTS for
   telecommunications) receive the data mainframe database in IBM's DB2. A
   third source is ELM, a database from Data Joiner, ELM and DLSS and
   translate it into a data set run by a mutual benefit corporation for
   lenders and schools under the that populates a set of Web pages. The
   data has been collected Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) program.
   The fourth source is according to student identification, and is unique
   to that student. SFA's Direct Loan Servicing System (DLSS), which is
   written in older The student can access her data using a standard
   browser across the IBM COBOL and is running on an Oracle relational
   database. Four Web on a PC from anywhere. different data sources. One
   of them totally outside of SFA! SFA's "Best in Business" Technology
   Triad We're building an architecture to provide unmatched reliability
   with flexible, leading-edge services to customers. We're using
   Internet, middleware architecture lets Fidelity swap and replace
   hardware, middleware and privacy tools (a rock solid foundation) and
   Web-based programming environments, and databases to stay at the future
   is communications tools, just like the best in business do. cutting
   edge. Fidelity estimates savings of up to $700 million a year on
   maintenance costs and upgrades. Technology Best Practices When Wells
   Fargo/Norwest merged, the Norwest legacy systems Stealing a smart idea,
   SFA is implementing three-tiered architecture were integrated into
   Wells, presenting a unified face to the and already is experiencing
   some of the benefits Wells Fargo, customer, in only six weeks. This
   integration was enabled by E*Trade and Fidelity are enjoying. SFA is
   using the same kind of Wells' three-tier architecture. This
   architectural setup offers CASE tools that GE tapped to boost its
   productivity and is already flexibility and adaptability, Wells was
   able to simply "plug" the effecting efficient results. existing Norwest
   legacy systems into their middle tier. Legacy of Disparate Systems
   E*Trade decided existing systems couldn't support big increases in
   Customers and partners told our Customer Service Task Force they
   transaction volume, so they implemented a middleware solution wanted
   easier access to appropriate loan and grant information. They that
   integrates feeds from external databases, increasing E*Trade's asked
   for improvements in the administration of our programs- such
   transaction volume to over 4 million a day. as a single student
   account. To get rid of the hairball and deliver improvements like
   these, we have to add a solid database foundation, General Electric
   uses commercial software tools to help develop and technology in two
   key areas-integration software (middleware) applications. These tools
   and strict methodology helped GE create and Web-based communication. an
   application development environment that has almost nine times more
   maintenance productivity from its system staff. At the same time, the
   SFA IPTs are re-engineering business processes and designing new
   customer-centered information systems (as Project Fidelity has a
   three-tiered architecture that consolidates data from EASI and the
   Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance 19 outside vendors
   and translates it to one common format. This recommended.) These new
   systems will be integrated and will replace July 15, 2000 Page I-9
   Where we are today... PROVING THE NEW CONCEPTS WILL WORK current
   systems-look for "tombstones" in Chapter V. As these new Ability and
   Economy from Three-Tiered Architecture systems are implemented, even
   better service and lower costs will be SFA is stealing a great idea,
   copying the best in business by structuring achieved. New, Tested
   Technology Solutions Several key technologies information technology in
   three tiers. have matured in recent years. These, used together, will
   solve our legacy problems and let us give customers and partners the
   integrated products and services they want. At ground level are
   integrated databases. The Internet, the access layer of middleware, and
   security technology will let us share data among our partners and SFA's
   legacy systems. This creates a seamless interface for * The new XML
   code (Extensible Markup Language) is a our databases and, wherever
   possible, eliminates data redundancy. The communication and data
   exchange standard that lets us tie middle tier consists of business
   process applications, all of which draw independent internal and
   external systems together so we from multiple integrated databases. SFA
   is standardizing on IBM DB2 can deliver them through Web portals.
   Version 7 for mainframe applications and on Oracle 8i for high-end UNIX
   servers. This strategy lets us function along customer channels, *
   We're integrating databases with middleware into new the way the best
   in business do. SFA staff members who perform the logical structures
   that reduce data redundancy, increase business processes that serve
   students, schools and financial partners are responsible for the
   computer applications that serve their customer accuracy and eliminate
   synchronization and timing channels. inconsistencies. Middleware
   extracts data from old systems, then translates it so new applications
   can use it. IBM/NEON (MQ Series Integrator), and IBM WebSphere Server
   are examples of products that will be used as our middleware. * We also
   call this bundled approach to middleware an Enterprise Architecture
   Integration (EAI) bus. This bus accesses data from SFA's legacy
   systems. See the following illustration SFA Technical Architecture. *
   We are creating a system of servers, mainframes, telecommunications and
   application programs to function as an Enterprise Architecture
   Integration (EAI) bus. This bus ties together SFA's new and legacy
   systems and delivers information to new applications at the user
   interfaces. See the following illustration, SFA Technical Architecture.
   * Security and privacy tools, such as password protected files and
   firewalls, are an essential part of the solution. They let us share
   data across the Internet and still make sure that only the right people
   use it for only the right things. July 15, 2000 Page I-10 Where we are
   today... PROVING THE NEW CONCEPTS WILL WORK The top tier consists of
   interfaces. Interfaces give our customers and The three-tier structure,
   new middleware, and Computer Aided partners choices-high tech and
   low-on how to communicate with Software Engineering (CASE) tools
   technology give us a real shot at us, and how to use our products and
   services. A three-tier architecture equaling best in business in
   agility, efficiency, and service. (shown in the figure below) offers
   three key advantages: * Standards Speed Development and Acquisition
   Doing * Efficiency and reduction of duplicated data and systems the job
   once, and re-using the work product, is a common- With the three-tier
   architecture, we will save a lot in data sense solution to high costs
   and time-consuming projects. storage. Right now, we store identical
   student information We're doing what leading commercial enterprises do:
   pick on many independent systems. Students and schools must the best
   tools at the time, and use them across the enterprise register and
   update information separately in several places. so that project teams
   can share their results with others. This is a time-consuming task that
   can cause errors and internal inconsistencies (when an update made in
   one system may not be made in another.) Database integration lets us
   choose the most appropriate place to store each piece of information.
   This means that information can be entered one time and accessed by all
   the databases within SFA and its partner systems. * Adapting to
   changing technology The three-tier architecture lets us work on
   bite-sized pieces of the system without having to take the entire
   system off line. With the old legacy systems, when capacity, speed or
   some new feature needed to be added, SFA had to fiddle with the
   database and the interfaces too. This costs time and money. Our new
   approach lets us buy a little, test a little, fix a little of just what
   we need, just when we need it. It lets us avoid the multi-year,
   mega-buck disasters that have been all too common in government system
   development. * Cost-Effectiveness A lot of the little pieces we buy,
   test, and fix can be used for other application in other parts of the
   system. For example, a software commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
   application like Siebel could be used by our call-center operators, and
   might also plug right into a Web application to give students self-help
   on-line. That's a big time and money saver. July 15, 2000 Page I-11
   Where we are today... PROVING THE NEW CONCEPTS WILL WORK * We have
   defined a set of performance requirements we can "Seeing is Believing"
   Our Approach to Software Selection use to evaluate tools and select the
   best value for the We are employing a "See, Touch and Feel" approach to
   software taxpayer. For example, we're using Rational Rose selection. We
   visit sites and see the potential technologies in action so Enterprise
   Suite software, which is a suite of integrated we know they'll do the
   job in our business with the large number of CASE (Computer-Aided
   Software Engineering) tools that students, schools and financial
   partners we serve. are helping our Integrated Product Teams (IPTs)
   function more consistently and thoroughly. * What's this mean for our
   customers? These internal SFA tools and standards speed development, so
   we can deliver better service faster. Standards help us make our
   applications and interfaces more similar, easier for customers to use.
   We can share information between customer groups more accurately. *
   Another example of standards is our collaboration with NACHA (National
   Automated Clearing House Association) and PESC (Postsecondary
   Electronic Standards Council.) These groups are working toward
   communication standards between financial entities, and we're working
   with them to include community standards in our Common Origination and
   Disbursement project and our expanding use of PINs and digital
   signature. 3rd Party Vendors and SFA Help Schools Save Money We have
   received many suggestions to expand participation and As electronic
   data interchange increased, many schools turned to scope of the
   conference. We have invited the participation of those "third-party"
   software developers for the software used for these who are involved in
   software development for federal financial aid file exchanges. The
   "third-party" software developers, through delivery and renamed it the
   Software Developers' Conference. The experience, have extensive
   expertise in financial aid and the first meeting was June 12  14, 2000
   in Washington, DC. electronic data interchange technologies. They can
   work together Representatives of six agencies and firms from the
   student loan with SFA so that technology developments in data
   interchange and community attended portals will be accommodated for
   schools, lenders, and guaranty agencies. Site Visits We have determined
   that middleware will be a critical component of In 1999, SFA began a
   series of Third-Party Software Developers our enterprise solution. Why?
   Because it works. Visits to IBM and Conference to provide information
   about SFA plans, system Chase Manhattan let us see with our own eyes
   how Enterprise development, and implementations. At the February 2000
   Application Integration (EAI) software is used to process millions
   conference, SFA said we will support testing with third-party of
   transactions a day in real time and batch, supporting more than $5
   software developers who have financial aid software installed in
   trillion in securities. These corporate giants support markets in 24
   Title IV schools. The test facilities and support will be the same as
   time zones and continually demonstrate the kind of functionality those
   we provide to schools. that will support our vision for the next few
   years and provide scalability to move us into the future. Under this
   new approach, the software developer will first test with SFA to ensure
   software design accuracy. Subsequently each school We also visited New
   York University to evaluate how students are will test with SFA their
   implementation of the software. The school using FAFSA on the Web. This
   valuable customer feedback is being will be installing tested software
   and could focus on any used to make immediate changes. Also, in the
   next year we'll be implementation issues. This benefits schools using
   that third-party developing a technical design with richer
   functionality for a new software delivered to the schools is better
   supported, and testing FAFSA on the Web-a design incorporating the
   suggestions from will cost the schools less. NYU students. July 15,
   2000 Page I-12 Where we are today... IMPROVING THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS
   IPTs Focus On Solutions! SFA has created five new Integrated Product
   Teams (IPTs) to redesign processes, deliver customer focused solutions,
   and achieve the objectives of the Modernization Blueprint. The IPTs
   include: 1. Common Origination and Disbursement 2. Direct Loan Service
   Reengineering 3. Financial Partners Transformation 4. Portals 5.
   Financial Management Transformation The Common Origination and
   Disbursement IPT is reengineering the processes and systems that
   support fund origination and disbursement for the federal Pell Grant
   and Direct Loan programs, as well as common reporting for campus-based
   funds. An analysis of the current processes led to the development of
   common origination and disbursement for these programs and The primary
   steps toward systems integration include: after-the-fact reporting for
   campus-based funds. The design of a new common origination and
   disbursement process takes the 1. Review current processes and systems.
   best ideas from the old process and lessons learned from the
   implementation of LOS, RFMS and recent initiatives such as Access
   America for Students and Project EASI. 2. Develop conceptual design for
   common process. One single common system using common data definitions
   and 3. Review options for technology to support common process.
   processes eliminates the existing stovepipe systems and allows
   origination and disbursement to interface with the new technology 4.
   Develop business requirements for common process and being implemented
   throughout SFA. This allows students, schools supporting system. and
   financial partners better access to data in addition to the following
   benefits: 5. Determine best option for common system. * Flexibility to
   send records via batch or real-time. 6. Develop middleware technology
   to enable the common system to receive and transmit old record layouts
   for the duration of the * Reduced processing time and costs. transition
   period. * Reduced time and effort spent managing systems. 7. Test and
   troubleshoot the common system. * Increased fiscal integrity with
   reduced administrative 8. Implement pilot programs to test the new
   system with schools effort. before retiring legacy systems. * Reduced
   after-the-fact downward adjustments due to 9. Retire legacy systems
   with the common system supporting all improper reporting and
   reconciliation. critical functionality. * Improved edits and reduced
   internal checking. As of Spring 2000, we have... á Completed analysis
   of the current processes and systems The customer interface will be
   portals tailored for each school. Schools will be able to view a
   complete student profile and access á Developed a conceptual design for
   the common processes information throughout the entire process through
   one single system. The amount of time it previously took for routine
   tasks will be á Discussed the conceptual design with focus groups and
   reduced considerably and the hassle and cost that accompanied three
   conference attendees different systems will be eliminated. á Reviewed
   high-level options for technology to support common processes July 15,
   2000 Page I-13 Where we are today... IMPROVING THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS
   Moving forward, we will... partner-ships with other government and
   community organizations. Leveraging these successes, we will continue
   initiating and building our partnerships to encourage the appropriate
   choices in á Gather additional information to define detailed business
   postsecondary education. requirements around the common processes
   through: á Focus groups with schools * Special Needs Accessibility-to
   build meaningful partnerships with organizations that serve the sight
   and á Internal knowledge of current processes and core functionality.
   hearing impaired to ensure equal access to student aid information. á
   Workgroups with knowledge (owners from past initiatives such as project
   EASI, Access America and CommonLine) * Outreach Partnership Workshop-to
   build partnerships á Explore systems options in detail with other
   relevant organizations, to work together to get financial aid
   information to all constituencies in a tailored á Develop long term
   training and transition strategy way that is appropriate and accessible
   to all. The Direct Loan Servicing IPT is determined to retire the
   Central * Puerto Rico Partnership-to ensure the potential student Data
   System. Formed in 1996 to use multiple loan servicing systems
   population in Puerto Rico has as much access to post- in support of the
   Direct Loan program, the Central Data System secondary education as any
   other population (CDS) sought to manage the flow of transactions
   between multiple originator and servicing systems. Though this multiple
   servicer * Student Profile-to build a database regarding trends in
   option was postponed in 1997, CDS was retained to keep the multi-
   servicer alternative as an option. Over the last three years, the
   Direct student profile characteristics, such as the types of Loan
   program and its supporting systems have undergone a number programs
   students are attending, the average wage of of regulatory modifications
   and enhancements, in addition to adding college graduates and
   non-graduates, the rate of a number of new features. Retiring CDS will:
   attendance among students of color. All this will help us understand
   who is being served and who is not. * Reduce operating costs The
   Portals IPT are the architects of SFA's Web portals. We will * Reduce
   redundant edits and associated errors invest in a first phase of
   development for the Schools Channel portal with a limited scope,
   keeping with SFA's modernization strategy of "buy a little, build a
   little, test a little." Release 1.0 will culminate in * Simplify system
   balancing, which improves employee the development of a working
   prototype that will provide a user- morale by necessitated fewer
   reconciliations and errors to centric interface to: resolve *
   Information for Financial Aid Professionals (IFAP) How can this be
   done? Five of the 12 basic functions of CDS can be immediately
   eliminated because they are duplicated in other systems application
   that support the Direct Loan program. The remaining seven functions can
   be incorporated into the Loan Servicing and Loan Origination * Industry
   links (internal and external) systems. * SFA Tech Also for this Team:
   Student Aid Awareness Many people who are eligible for financial aid
   never even ask for * SFA Download information or complete the
   application process. Untimely, non- targeted and dense information
   clouds the decision-making process * Limited personal links for too
   many people with potential. The solution is getting information into
   the hands of potential students and providing them The Release 1.0
   Working Prototype will be presented to 2,500 with the National
   Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NAS- foundation
   for making informed decisions about post-secondary FAA) conference
   attendees on July 9, 2000. Future releases of the education and
   financing. School Portal will provide business transaction
   functionality including common origination and disbursement.
   Ultimately, the Student Aid Awareness puts students first. Tailored
   services help Schools Channel portal will become the main gateway
   through which different populations access aid for traditional and
   non-traditional the various members of the Schools Channel community
   interact with post-secondary education. For FY2000, we have set
   specific goals, SFA. realizing that these are only the first steps in
   building long-term July 15, 2000 Page I-14 Where we are today...
   IMPROVING THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS * Enhanced Service Delivery for
   Financial Partners- The Financial Partners IPT is totally transforming
   the systems, efforts to improve specific products and services for
   processes and organization of the Financial Partners channel. As a
   financial partners is a key element to the overall success functional
   unit of SFA focused on relationships with lenders, uaranty of the
   transformation effort. Product and service agencies, state agencies,
   secondary markets and services, the improvements include examining the
   use of the Web for exchanging data and posting the FAFSA on partners'
   Websites. The Financial Management Transformation IPT is transforming
   the CFO from a traditional finance and accounting organization into a
   "best in business" financial management organization. One component of
   the process is the design and "MAD DOG" PROJECTS SFA has launched a new
   business practice we call Mad Dog projects. What constitutes a Mad Dog
   project? * It must be chartered by SFA's Management Council. * It's a
   short, intensive effort of 60 days or less to fix or improve something
   critical*. The team is required to Financial Partners channel works to
   improve the overall delivery and deliver weekly status reports to the
   COO and administration of financial aid. A major modernization program
   Management Council. (Five minutes on progress, aimed at business,
   technology, organization and human performance obstacles, issues.) is
   helping to leverage best practices from the financial services
   industry. The program is helping improve service for students and cut *
   Its resources are provided on a priority basis and staff is costs for
   the financial service providers. kept small. It takes precedence over
   other work. We find the money to pay for it. The Financial Partners
   Transformation, engineered by the IPT, focuses on four initiatives
   related to our major business processes: * Mad Dog efforts can inform,
   accelerate or create larger efforts. * Financial Partners Process
   Reengineering-the design and implementation of improvements to core
   business Two Mad Dog project teams have been chartered to fix problems
   processes that impact partners and employees. Processes with
   high-impact products or services. They are: to be examined include
   GA/Lender payment; oversight and technical assistance; policy and
   analysis; contract management; enhanced partner relationship management
   * FAFSA on the Web-The team identifies quick for GAs and Lenders;
   voluntary flexible agreements for improvements to continue to build on
   successes and react GAs; and improvements to the regulatory process.
   quickly to challenges. This team is listening to students, such as
   during a March 2000 trip to New York * Enabling Technologies for
   Financial Partners- University. improvements in system technology and
   infrastructure that will allow for better data exchange and interface *
   RFMS-The team is visiting about 30 schools to identify among partners
   by enabling reliable and consistent and prioritize Recipient Financial
   Manager System information management. improvements. It's reviewing and
   analyzing community feedback collected from customer support help lines
   and * Financial Partners Employee Transformation-building questions
   posted to listserves. The team diligently on employee skills, SFA will
   enhance organizational and communicates with schools and improvements
   are human performance in step with process and system implemented as
   quickly as possible. development. The result will deliver better
   customer implementation of the Financial Management System (FMS.) The
   service and relationship management. FMS will manage the flow of
   financial transactions across all SFA information systems and serve as
   the foundation for the transformation of the CFO. July 15, 2000 Page
   I-15 Where we are today... IMPROVING THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS SFA
   Organizes Leadership Team and "Mod Partner" Around the Business Model
   The new SFA follows a business model organized around its Steve Hawald,
   Chief Information Officer customers. In September 1999, SFA announced
   the selections of the The CIO is instrumental in SFA's efforts to
   evolve to an e-commerce General Managers of the three customer
   channels-Students, government service organization. Hawald has over 20
   years' Schools and Financial Partners. A Chief Information Office,
   Chief experience in information technology, ranging from designing
   Financial Officer and Ombudsman were added to the team. financial
   systems for major telecommunications and software Andersen Consulting
   was selected as SFA's Modernization Partner to companies to the
   successful implementation of Web-based solutions help push
   modernization forward. Andersen was chosen because: it for a major
   healthcare provider. Before joining SFA, Hawald was the has experience
   implementing large information technology projects Chief Information
   Officer & Vice President of Technologies at similar to SFA's; has a
   very competent staff; and, like SFA, was Dental Benefit Providers,
   Inc., of United HealthCare Corp. willing to base its success and part
   of its compensation on performance-based criteria. Jim Lynch, Chief
   Financial Officer SFA leaders are: Before joining the SFA team, Lynch
   was with the U.S. Patent and Kay Jacks, General Manager for Schools
   Trademark Office and has more that 27 years experience in financial
   management. With the goal of transforming SFA into a PBO, Lynch The GM
   for Schools manages partnerships with colleges and quickly set these
   financial management priorities: universities to help them successfully
   implement student aid programs. Jacks has 28 years of experience in
   student financial aid, with positions in four-year and two-year public
   schools, four-year * implementation of a state-of-the-art financial
   management private and two-year technical schools. system Barry Morrow,
   General Manager of Financial Partners * activity based cost accounting
   The GM for Financial Partners is responsible for developing best in *
   achievement of an unqualified opinion on SFA financial service
   processes with lenders, servicers, guarantors and state agencies, while
   maintaining oversight and partnership support statements services.
   Morrow has 20 years' experience as a financial services executive.
   Debra Wiley, Ombudsman The Ombudsman's Office was created to mediate
   disputes and Jeanne Van Vlandren, General Manager for Students improve
   communication between SFA and its customers. The Ombudsman informally
   resolves complaints from student borrowers, The GM for Students manages
   Student Aid Awareness, Customer mediating disputes and collects
   information to improve services and Call Centers, Application
   Processing and Student Credit Management prevent future problems.
   Before joining the SFA team, Wiley served (that includes Direct Loan
   Repayment, Consolidation, and Debt as executive director of the Pierce
   County (Washington) Center for Collections.) Van Vlandren has more than
   18 years of senior level Dispute Resolution. executive experience in
   both federal and state government. July 15, 2000 Page I-16 Where we are
   today... MAKING PROGRESS AGAINST OUR PLAN Update on What Has Happened
   Since September SFA Modernization Blueprint Phase 1 Schedule We've
   reprinted a version of the original chart, below. Here is our In
   September 1999, SFA said it would advance on many different update to
   you. Some projects have been completed, others have been projects. We
   published a chart listing them, and suggested schedules. rolled into
   our new initiatives. 5/99 7/99 9/99 11/99 1/00 3/00 5/00 7/00 9/00 1999
   Fiscal Year 2000 Fiscal Year 1998-1999 1999-2000 Award Year Award Year
   Task Name 1999-2000 FAFSA Processing Year 2000-2001 FAFSA Processing
   Year * Personalized Student Web Page * Online Help Wizard * Complaint
   Cherishing System * Online Financial Planning Tools * Data Center
   Consolidation * Data Center Intranet * Single Student Account * All
   Enrolled Data * Digital ID * Financial Management System * Flexiplace
   Upgrades * RFMS in Place (Recipient & Financial Management System) *
   FAFSA Corrections on the Web * Quick Correct (name, address, school
   codes) * Full Record Correction * Direct Loan Exit Counseling Material
   * Electronic Billing Infrastructure * Web Based Technical Assistance *
   Direct Loan Consolidation  Certificate/ACH Payment * Host Computer
   Access Layer * Access America Phase I  NACHA Partnership Forum * Mentor
   Program * Electronic Yellow Pages for SFA * Travel System for SFA
   Employees * Intranet for SFA Employees * Technical Training for SFA
   Employees July 15, 2000 Page I-17 Where we are today... MAKING PROGRESS
   AGAINST OUR PLAN SFA Products and Services Progress on the September
   1999 List 1999  2000 PROJECTS STATUS/PROGRESS (as reported September
   30, 1999) Personalized Student Web Page "Students.gov" has been
   subsumed into the future students portals and includes three major
   concepts: * Capability to make on-line changes to FAFSA on the Web *
   NSLDS can be directly accessed by students on the Web * Major upgrade
   to Direct Loan student Website (March 25, 2000) On-Line Help Wizard In
   progress. This is a feature of the schools portal that we are currently
   building and will become part of the Students portal in the future.
   Complaint Cherishing System Completed Online Financial Planning Tools
   See Enterprise Information System (EIS) section Data Center
   Consolidation Completion: Late 2000 Data Center Intranet Completed
   Single Student Account Incorporated into the Common Origination and
   Disbursement initiative. All Enrolled Data Signed agreement with the
   National Student Loan Clearinghouse. Capability up and running. Digital
   ID See Students Channel for use with student access and Financial
   Partners for FFELP pilots. Financial Management System Under Chief
   Financial Officer (CFO) Flexiplace Upgrade In progress, see Improved
   Organizational and Human Performance Projects RFMS In Place Completed
   FAFSA Corrections on the Web Many available, others in progress Direct
   Loan Exit Counseling Material Completed Electronic Billing
   Infrastructure Incorporated into the Direct Loan Consolidation
   Re-engineering. Host Computer Access Layer In progress, see Enterprise
   Integration Access America, Phase I See Highway 1 project for student
   access to personal financial aid data. see Access America Website for
   information for students. See Loan Servicing and Loan Consolidation
   under the Students Channel for additional on-line student services.
   Mentor Program See Enhanced Service Delivery for Financial Partners
   Electronic Yellow Pages for SFA In progress, this is an employee
   focused Intranet that currently focuses on enhanced customer service.
   This tool will allow SFA employees to forward all call to the
   appropriate person. Travel System for SFA Employees Completion: April
   2000 Intranet for SFA Employees Completion: April 2000 Technical
   Training for SFA Employees See SFA University July 15, 2000 Page I-18
   Where we are today... MAKING PROGRESS AGAINST OUR PLAN How Will
   Upcoming Modernization Milestones Impact Me? The SFA modernization
   projects have been sequenced based on their improving customer
   satisfaction, reducing unit cost and improving value to partners and
   customers and their technical feasibility. This employee satisfaction.
   In the plan, we have attempted to balance Sequencing Plan, revised
   since the first edition of the Modernization stakeholders' interests
   against the time and resources needed to Blueprint, reflects our latest
   judgment on which projects can and successfully complete each project.
   The sequencing allows SFA to should be accomplished in the first 36
   months of the modernization "buy program. Some of the projects are
   based on new concepts and a little, test a little, fix a little" to
   effectively manage modernization initiatives. and achieve business
   results. The new initiatives reflect SFA's increased emphasis on
   working This is the overview of our Sequencing Plan. We've got lots
   more with key stakeholder groups, like students, schools, partners and
   detail about results, benefits for you, project details and schedules.
   community members. This revised Sequencing Plan is comprised of It's in
   Chapter V of the Modernization Blueprint. initiatives that are more
   closely aligned with SFA's objectives of July 15, 2000 Page I-19 Where
   we are today... MAKING PROGRESS AGAINST OUR PLAN ,1 7+( 1(;7 6,;
   0217+6«6)$ 352'8&76 6(59,&(6 72 %( '(/,9(5(' April 2000 * Software
   release Pell Payments for Windows Version 6.2 June 2000 * Software
   release: Version 3.0 of the FISAP software * "Mad Dog" teams deliver
   quick fixes and improvements * FAFSA on the Web * RFMS July 2000 * The
   initial phases of the Schools portal" prototype at NASFAA August 2000 *
   SFA Selects model to electronically complete compliance audits and
   financial statements: improves tracking of these documents and
   streamlines required reviews and resolution September 2000 * The
   initial phases of the Schools portal: Version 1.0, containing an
   upgraded IFAP, September * 1998 final default rates * Electronic
   processing for official cohort default rate appeals: supports
   additional appeal rights to schools, and reduces amount of time to
   process appeals * EXTRANET added to our "Vendor Toolkit:" helps share
   information with software vendors and financial partners, complements
   current information available through IFAP, SFA Tech, and SFA Download
   * Software developers will have access to SFA's Innovations Research
   and Development Lab for testing new products and data: schools get
   better software and save money on testing * Review progress toward
   standards for single-sign one, with vendor community and schools
   Getting to Tombstones Seven of the eight legacy systems have been
   consolidated into a single "Virtual Data Center" in Meriden,
   Connecticut. We plan to turn the diagram of legacy systems into a
   graveyard. Look for the partially shaded "tombstones" in the sub-system
   sequencing plan in Chapter V, Section E, for a more comprehensive list
   of systems that are being retired. SFA has indeed been making progress
   against our plan. Some projects have been completed, others rolled into
   new initiatives. As we balance stakeholders' interests against the time
   and resources needed to successfully complete projects, we remain
   focused on getting the job done right. July 15, 2000 Page I-20
