http://isddc.dot.gov/OLPWeb.ASP?WCI=GetStarted&WCU=

                                  OLP Logo
                                 OLP Buttons

                  Getting Started Using Online Publications

                        How to Move Around Our Site?
                       How to Locate the Publications?
                       How to Obtain the Publications?
                       How to Obtain More Information?
              How to Contact Us about Problems or Suggestions?


                        How to Move Around Our Site?
   The graphics at the top of each page can be used to move around the OLP
    site and to go to other DOT sites.  The On Line Publications graphic
    contains a link the OLP Home page.  The DOT logo is linked to the DOT
     Home page.  The main navigation menu bar is below the graphics.  It
    contains three links that connect to major sections of this site, and
     links that connect to the DOT and TASC/IS Home Pages. The three OLP
   sections are Search, Help and Support.  In the search section, you can
    find the publication or download the publication or order for printed
       version of the publications.  In the Help section, you can find
     detailed information about the site and some technical information
    about how the site operates. In the Support section, you can request
        assistance, report problems, and provide us with feedback or
                                suggestions.

                       How To Locate the Publications?

      From the search page, you can go to the  Main Search  page, which
    allows you to search the entire OLP collection.   You will be able to
      search on one or more document identifiers including words in the
               title, keywords, publication date, and agency.

    You can also choose one of the quick search options.  The "Search By
   Agency" option displays a list of publications created by the selected
   agency.  You can then narrow this list by searching on another document
    identifier -- a word or phrase in the title or subtitle, a keyword or
              phrase, publication date or date range, and OPI.

    The "Search by Publication Number" option displays publications that
    match the publication number you specify.  You can enter the complete
   publication number.  You can also select a group of publications using
       the wild card character (%).  For example, you can retrieve DOT
        Directives by entering,  "OST %Order%".  You must prefix the
      publication number with the Operating Administration abbreviation
                            followed by a blank.

                       How to Obtain the Publication?
      Once you found a publication, you can download it in TIFF or PDF
    format. You can also order a printed copy. Initially, you are allowed
   to order one copy. If you need to order multiple copies, you will have
      to Register and contact our staff. To get more information about
               Registration please refer to the Help Section.

                       How to Obtain More Information?
    More information about our site is available in the Help Section. It
   gives you detailed information about each section of the web site. News
        items and bulletins can be also accessed from the Home page.

            How To Contact Us about the Problems or Suggestions?
    The one section of the web site consists of the Support and feedback
     forms. You can fill out the Support and Feedback forms to send the
    message directly to us. Other contact information is also available.
