http://www.ihs.gov/AdminMngrResources/ManageResources_index.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

   Resources for I H S Management

   IHS News Announcements Starts Here.

   ·  Click here to view a text version of the marquee
   All Current IHS News items
   can be viewed in text format.
   Browse IHS Links Here.

   Item 1 Whats New On This Site
   Item 2 Frequently Asked Questions
   Item 3 Find An I H S Employee
   Item 4 I H S Calendar
   Item 5 My I H S Portal
   Item 6 Current I H S Issues At  INFO.IHS.GOV
   Key I H S Links End Here.
   Bullet Image. Start of Page Links. Item 1 Administrative Information
   Sources
   Information on government agencies, federal regulations and procedures,
   tribal information, and other information useful to I H S employees and
   others.
   vertical dots divider
   Item 2 Budget
   Online source for I H S Budget Documents.
   Item 3 Day One Tracking System
   Allows users to submit, via the internet, detailed and up to the minute
   reports on I H S Facility Information.
   Item 4 Division of Human Resources
   Information on classification; employee relations; labor relations;
   staffing services; laws, rules, regulations, and H H S and I H S
   policies; E E O issues; I H S links; and miscellaneous Human Resources
   links.
   Item 5 Employee Directory/Locator
   Search features to locate an employee or I H S facility by name or part
   of name.
   Item 6 Equal Employment Opportunity [E E O]
   Information about the Indian Health Service Equal Employment
   Opportunity policies, contacts, programs, activities, and efforts.
   Item 7 Freedom of Information Act [F O I A]
   Provides you with the basic information you need to submit a request
   under the Freedom of Information Act, for records held by the Indian
   Health Service.
   Item 8 I H S Directory
   This P D F directory, updated monthly, provides contact information for
   I H S headquarters operating divisions and employees, the 12 Area
   Offices and key Area personnel, and Service Units throughout the United
   States.
   Item 9 Indian Health Care Improvement Act
   Information on the comprehensive consultative process leading up to the
   Reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.

   Section Highlights

     Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
   of 1996 [H I P A A]

     Calendar

     I H S Developers Community

     Glossary / Acronyms

     I H S Links and Documents

     I H S Web Site Standards and Guidelines

     Publications and Reports
   Highlighted Links End here.
   Item 10 Indian Health Manual [I H M]
   Permanent policies, procedures, and operating standards unique to the
   I H S administrative and program operations. In addition to the I H M
   chapters, the I H S Circular format is used to issue temporary I H S
   operating policy. Special General Memoranda (S G M) are used to
   interpret or reiterate existing I H S policy that requires special
   attention by I H S employees.
   Item 11 Office of Tribal Programs - Database User Manual
   A guide for the use of the Office of Tribal Programs (O T P) database.
   Item 12 Privacy Act
   A basic resource for Privacy Act information, guidelines, and
   procedures.
   Item 13 Program Integrity and Ethics
   Provides an information resource to I H S staff concerning integrity
   and ethics principles, and the Standards of Conduct for all employees
   of the Executive Branch.
   Item 14. End of Page Links. Travel Requests
   Find out about the requirements for making a travel request, as well
   as, sending a travel request to your executive officer.

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Friday January 11, 2002  9:26 AM
