http://chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov/staff/charts.htm

   jump to text Jump to links

   [USEMAP:navigation_r1_c1.gif]
   About Us
   What's New?
   Navigational Charts and Related Products
   Critical Corrections
   Wrecks and Obstructions
   Navigation Services
   Hydrographic Surveys
   Historic Maps and Charts
   Research and Development
   Sales Information
   Library
   FAQs
   Contact Us
   Home
   [navigation_r16_c1.gif]

   [Transparbox.gif]

   Office of Coast Survey Text [NavigationalCharts-banner.gif]


   line
                                                      Coast Pilot tm
   Print on Demand
                                  Navigational Charts
                                                      Raster Nautical Charts
   Electronic Navigational Charts
   line

                                                    Nautical Chart Section

                        Example of a Nautical Chart Section

   The Navigational Chart is one of the most fundamental tools available
   to the mariner. In the very early days of the United States, commerce
   between the states was mostly waterborne and foreign trade, necessary
   for survival and expansion of our national economy, was entirely by
   sea. This still holds true today with over 98% of the nation's cargo
   carried by waterborne transportation -- a good portion consisting of
   hazardous cargo posing a continuous threat to the environment.
   What is a Nautical Chart? A Nautical Chart is a graphic portrayal of
   the marine environment. In addition to providing the most *basic
   elements (a schematic layout of a Coast Survey chart), a chart is a
   working document used by the mariner both as a "road map" and worksheet
   and is essential for safe navigation. In conjunction with supplemental
   navigational aids, it is used to lay out courses and navigate ships by
   the shortest and most economically safe route. A chart shows the nature
   and form of the coast, the depths of the water and general character
   and configuration of the sea bottom, locations of dangers to
   navigation, the rise and fall of the tides, locations of man-made aids
   to navigation, and the characteristics of the Earth's magnetism.

   In addittion to the traditional paper product, charts are also
   available in:
     * Raster Format - Raster Nautical Chart (RNC): A georeferenced,
       digital picture of a paper chart which can be used in a raster
       chartsystem; and
     * Vector Format - Electronic Navigational Chart (ENC): The data base
       of chart features and their attributes which is used in an ECDIS to
       construct and query a chart-like display. The ENC data is written
       in an exchange standard of the IHO designated S-57.

   * A comprehensive reference publication containing the basic chart
   elements, titled " Chart No. 1 - Nautical Chart Symbols Abbreviations
   and Terms," incorporates chart symbols used on Coast Survey charts and
   those of many other nations.

   Equally useful is another publication which provides a wealth of
   technical information concerning the structure, layout and construction
   of a nautical chart, titled the Nautical Chart User's Manual. This
   publications covers basic topographic and hydrographic features, aids
   to navigation, chart symbols, miscellaneous other charting features and
   supplemental information.

   Today, nautical charts are used by the Departments of Defense and
   Transportation, state and local governments, commercial shippers, the
   fishing industry, and recreational boaters throughout the United
   States. Navigational Charts and Coast Pilots are integral components
   necessary for the safety of life and property and safe and efficient
   navigation while transiting U.S. and territorial waterways. Federal law
   requires all ships in excess of 1600 gross tons to have and use current
   editions of these navigation products. Charts and hydrographic surveys
   are also used by environmental groups, academia, and coastal zone
   planners.

      Additional Products and Programs

     Adopt-a-Chart Program

     Chart No 1

     Dates of Latest Edition

     Distance Between United States Ports

     Exclusive Economic Zone

     Loran C conversions

   About Us What's New? Nautical Charts and Related Publications Critical
   Corrections Wrecks and Obstructions [Transpar-nav-box.gif] Hydrographic
   Surveys Research and Development Historic Maps and Charts Library Sales
   Information FAQs Contact Us Home


   Top line
   Department of Commerce
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   OCS Privacy Statement
   National Ocean Service
   [bottomlines.gif]

   Revised Friday October 26 2001by OCS Webmaster
