http://ftp.ssa.gov/slge/

                   State and Local Home Page Logo Graphic
                                 Bar Graphic
                   State and Local Navigation Bar Graphic

   State and Local Overview Link State and Local Law and Regulations Link
    SS Online/Employer Reporting Link State and Local Related Links Link
         State and Local Reserved Link State and Local Reserved Link

   Picture of Group Workers Welcome to SSA's web site for State and local
   government employers. Currently, there are about 86,000 public
   employers and 23 million public employees.

   Social Security and Medicare coverage for State and local government
   employees is unique because there are special coverage provisions for
   public employees under the Social Security Act. It is important for
   public employers to know about these provisions and how they may affect
   their employees.

   This site is for State and local government employers who are
   responsible for withholding, reporting and paying Social Security and
   Medicare taxes for public employees. You will find information about
   how public employees are covered for Social Security and Medicare,
   frequently asked questions, laws and regulations, publications, who to
   contact in your State, and related web links that will help you
   understand the Social Security and Medicare coverage and reporting
   requirements for public employees.

   Public employees who have questions about Social Security or Medicare
   benefits, or how the windfall elimination provision (WEP) or government
   pension offset (GPO) may affect their Social Security or disability
   benefits, should call Social Securitys toll-free number,
   1-800-772-1213, or visit their local Social Security office.

                   Social Security Online privacy policy.
     Send comments on content or web functionality to: Vanessa L. Jones.


      Social Security Online Home Page Link State and Local Top of Page
                                                     Graphic

                      SS Online Contact US graphic link
