http://marad.dot.gov/Headlines/speeches/Robertson.htm


   By Gen. Charles T. "Tony" Robertson Jr.,
   Commander in Chief,
   U.S. Transportation Command


                     25^TH YEAR ANNIVERSARY CEREMONY OF
                           THE READY RESERVE FORCE
         18 Oct 2001 (Onboard RRF vessel, CAPE WRATH, in Baltimore)

   Although I could not be with you today, I wanted to take this
   opportunity to extend a message of congratulations and thanks to each
   of you, the truly outstanding men and women of America’s Ready Reserve
   Force, as you celebrate your Silver Anniversary.

   Over the course of the last 25 years, America has come to increasingly
   rely on your dedicated and professional organization for the nation’s
   defense transportation needs. With each passing year, our Nation’s
   Ready Reserve Force has matured and improved its capability to respond
   to any and all contingencies…and so it is with great confidence in your
   ability that USTRANSCOM takes up its role in the current anti-terrorism
   campaign. Indeed, the national resolve that was forged in the fires of
   the World Trade Center and the Pentagon will depend on you, in no small
   measure, to help translate our national anger into international
   accountability. I know you are up to that task.

   Ever since Operations DESERT SHIELD and DESERT STORM, when the RRF
   moved 28 per cent of the total unit cargo and maintained a 93 percent
   operating reliability, your dedication, innovation, and professionalism
   have further increased RRF cargo capacity, upgraded the quality of your
   vessels, improved force readiness, and enhanced your ability to
   transport America’s fighting forces.

   The success of the RRF program rests squarely on the strong shoulders
   of the Maritime Administration, working hand-in-hand with our faithful
   partners…the maritime industry. To meet our nation’s wartime
   transportation requirements, this powerful team has stepped up to the
   management challenges facing the RRF and moved forward, with great
   confidence and effectiveness, into the new millennium. Using the best
   practices of commercial industry, this dynamic team is setting the pace
   for the Defense Transportation System.

   That said, we all know that none of this would be possible without the
   talent and perseverance of the highly trained men and women who crew
   these vessels. These professional merchant mariners…those who make the
   daily sacrifices for our nation…are the true "unsung heroes" of the
   program.

   On behalf of the United States Transportation Command, I salute each
   and every one of you. Thank you for what you did yesterday, thank you
   for what you are doing today, and most importantly…thank you for what
   you will do for this great nation in the days to come. Fair winds and
   following seas my friends…and God Bless.
