http://www.fasab.gov


            FASAB Logo
         FASAB Homepage
   Information on FASAB
   Listing of Documents

                Notices
   Standards & Concepts
           Codification
    Reports & Documents
           Newsletters/
   Special Mailings
      Exposure Drafts &
   Documents for
   Comments
        Interpretations
        Agendas/Minutes
   Accounting & Auditing
   Policy Committee
   border image

                    Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board

   Welcome to the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board

      The Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board promulgates accounting
      principles for federal government reporting entities. This website
      provides access to all publications issued by FASAB including exposure
      drafts, the volume of original pronouncements ("Codification"),
      newsletters, minutes and meeting agendas. If you have questions about
      state and local governmental entity accounting, please visit
      http://www.gasb.org. If you have questions about non-governmental
      entity accounting, please visit http://www.fasb.org.

   FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:

      Where Do I Get Statements of Federal Financial Accounting Standards or
      Concepts?

      You can access FASAB's concepts, standards, interpretations, technical
      bulletins and technical releases issued as of 12/31/00 by clicking on
      "Codification" on the left side of the screen. By clicking on
      "Standards & Concepts" you can access the individual standards and
      concepts in Acrobat (.pdf) format. Documents issued after 12/31/00 can
      be found here. For information on new releases or ordering print copies
      (where available) of standards and concepts, click on Listing of
      Documents (FASAB/AAPC).

      For information on ordering print copies (where available) of standards
      and concepts, click on Listing of Documents (FASAB/AAPC).

      Who Should I Direct Questions to Regarding the Statements?

      Please review the AAPC Facts posted on the AAPC page. The AAPC is an
      excellent starting point in resolving issues relating to the standards
      as well as form & content and audit issues. You should also review the
      Guidelines for Submitting Issues to the AAPC. If you choose to contact
      FASAB staff for assistance on an issue, please call Marian Nicholson at
      202 512-7350. Ms. Nicholson will direct you to the appropriate staff
      member if you are able to tell her which standard you wish to have
      guidance on or the general topic of interest to you.

      You may also direct technical questions or questions about using this
      website to fasab@fasab.gov by email.
