http://cantor.house.gov/newsroom/2001/20011113pheartculpeper.htm

                         [banner.gif] [clearspc.gif]
                         [clearspc.gif]
                         [clearspc.gif]


                [clearspc.gif]

                [ericcantor-white.gif]
                [contactme-white.gif]
                [constituentservices-white.gif]
                [7thdistrict-white.gif]
                [emailupdates-white.gif]
                [newsroom-white.gif]
                [legislativerecord-white.gif]
                [kidspage-white.gif]
                [privacy-white.gif]
                [home-white.GIF]


   [clearspc.gif]
   [clearspc.gif] News Room
   Contact:  Jenn Mascott/(202) 225-2815
   [clearspc.gif]

                             Prepared Remarks of
                       Congressman Eric Cantor (VA-07)
                    Ceremony to Present the Purple Heart
                    to the Family of Floyd Burnett Coates
                             Culpeper, Virginia
                              November 13, 2001

   Culpeper, VA— I am pleased to be here today for such an important
   ceremony and am honored to welcome the family of Floyd Burnett Coates.
   I would also like to welcome all those present who are currently
   serving or have served our nation in the armed forces and thank the
   members of the Culpeper High School Marine JROTC Color Guard for
   presenting the colors at today’s ceremony.

   Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to hear 12 remarkable students
   from Liberty Middle School and Patrick Henry High School offer a
   patriotic presentation to the House Financial Services Committee. These
   young men and women traveled to Washington from Ashland, Virginia to
   participate in our democratic form of government. They spoke on behalf
   of the Liberty Bill Act, which is a simple piece of legislation that
   requires the redesign of all U.S. paper currency so that an abbreviated
   version of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights appears on the back
   of all Federal Reserve notes.

   Their contention was that Americans and people around the world must
   have a daily reminder of the foundations of our democratic society.
   They recalled the contributions of our founding fathers and highlighted
   the ideals that serve as the basis of our democracy. As I listened to
   their presentation, I was struck by their knowledge of the events that
   led to the creation of this great nation. I was amazed at their
   appreciation for the rights we hold so dear. And I was inspired by
   their pride in the achievements of great Americans with names like
   Washington, Jefferson, and Madison.

   More young men and women should participate in our government process
   and speak out on behalf of issues they believe are important. I was
   very pleased that a large group of students from Culpeper and Greene
   County visited me in Washington in the first days of the 107^th
   Congress. They joined me to speak out in support of an important bill
   that I promised the Seventh District I would introduce, the Education
   Empowerment Tax Credit Act.

   While we all enjoy the freedoms guaranteed in our Constitution, prior
   to the terrorist attacks on the Pentagon and New York’s World Trade
   Center, many people in our nation took our basic rights of all
   Americans for granted. Freedom of speech, religion, and press are so
   prevalent here in the United States, yet many people around the world
   continue to live under oppressive circumstances where their basic human
   rights are violated as a matter of government policy. In the course of
   everyday life, the sacrifices of our nation’s veterans, who secured and
   defended our freedom, do not always receive the recognition or
   appreciation they deserve.

   As I stand before you today, I am reminded that our freedom came at
   great cost. To secure and maintain our liberty throughout our nation’s
   225 years of history, millions of our sons and daughters have been
   called to serve in times of war and peace -- men and women who did not
   take our liberty for granted.

   And what is the price of freedom? 25,000 Americans were killed during
   the Revolutionary War, 562,000 men never returned to their wives,
   children and homes during the civil war, 116,000 doughboys died in
   Europe in the war to end all wars, 58,000 brave men were killed in
   Vietnam, and 17 sailors perished aboard the USS Cole in a cowardly act
   of terrorism just last year. In total, 1,572,856 Americans have been
   wounded in action throughout our history and an astounding 1,256,850
   soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines have laid down their lives in the
   service of our country. 2.8 million Americans and countless others in
   the military have sacrificed so that we can live in peace and with
   freedom.

   On September 11, the American people were brutally reminded that peace
   must be secured and never taken for granted. I applaud President Bush
   for his leadership in this time of national crisis. He has assembled
   the finest and most qualified team of advisors possible, and they will
   provide expert advice in the months and years ahead. He is the
   Commander-in-Chief of the most capable and powerful military in the
   world, and our armed forces are ready to bring the fight to those who
   seek to inflict death, destruction, and economic instability upon the
   United States. And, most importantly, he is bolstered by the full
   support and confidence of the American people.

   On October 7, 2001, the United States began the long campaign to
   eradicate terrorism – the first War of the Twenty-First Century. We
   must be steadfast in our determination to act decisively against all
   terrorist groups with global reach and the nations that sponsor them so
   that the events of September 11, 2001, never occur again. We are
   engaged in a comprehensive campaign to destroy their training bases,
   eliminate their communications capabilities, seize their financial
   assets, and paralyze their ability to threaten democracy around the
   world. This will not be an easy undertaking and will require the full
   consent and patient support of the American people.

   And most importantly, we must be mindful that success in this dangerous
   mission will be ultimately secured by the sacrifices of the men and
   women in our armed forces. They are already answering the call to duty,
   just as generations of Americans before them, to provide for the
   security of the United States. I am inspired by their service and the
   sacrifice of men such as Specialist Floyd Coates who have gone into
   harm’s way on behalf of the American people. It is that spirit of
   sacrifice that we honor here today.

   It is no coincidence that George Washington, the father of our country,
   adorns the Medal presented to the Coates family. The Purple Heart,
   originally called the Badge of Military Merit, was established by
   General George Washington on August 7, 1782 and was the first
   authorized U.S. Military decoration. A piece of cloth in the form of a
   heart, this decoration was intended to recognize servicemen who
   displayed unusual gallantry or extraordinary fidelity. Today, the
   Purple Heart is awarded to recognize those who have been wounded or
   killed in action in the service of our nation.

   Specialist Coates was one of these brave Americans to perish in the
   service of his country in Vietnam. He was a member of Alpha Troop,
   First Squadron, 11^th Armored Cavalry Regiment and gave his life on
   March 25, 1970, at the young age of 20 when a mortar round exploded
   near his artillery firing position. He was the recipient of the Bronze
   Star, Good Conduct, and National Service Defense Medals; the Combat
   Infantryman’s Badge; and the Vietnam Campaign Ribbon. Thirty-one years
   later, he is not forgotten. Today, we are mindful of his life and
   thankful for his contributions to this nation.

   Specialist Coates served our nation in time of crisis, and we honor him
   today. He embodied the spirit of patriotic Americans around the country
   and throughout history who have answered the call to duty. Their
   actions in the defense of our nation remind us that, in the immortal
   words of General Douglas MacArthur, "the soldier above all other people
   prays for peace, for he must suffer and bear the deepest wounds and
   scars of war." Their service dictates that we must be ever cognizant of
   the freedoms we enjoy and the cost of obtaining liberty for generations
   of Americans.

   On behalf of a grateful nation, I present the Purple Heart to Ms.
   Theresa "Gail" Coates, the sister of Floyd Burnett Coates, and thank
   him, and all veterans, for their service to our country. As we reflect
   upon the valor and patriotism of Specialist Coates, I can assure you
   that America does not take her freedom for granted.

   [clearspc.gif]
   [clearspc.gif]

                               Washington, DC
                             329 Cannon Building
                            Washington, DC 20515
                           Phone:  (202) 225-2815
                            Fax:  (202) 225-0011

                                Richmond, VA
                           5040 Sadler Place, #110
                            Glen Allen, VA 23060
                           Phone:  (804) 747-4073
                            Fax:  (804) 747-5308

                                Culpeper, VA
                             763 Madison Rd #207
                             Culpeper, VA 22701
                           Phone:  (540) 825-8960
                            Fax:  (540) 825-8964
                                               [clearspc.gif]
