http://www.doi.gov/news/010808a.html

                       U.S. Department of the Interior

                              [news_header.jpg]

   Office of the Secretary

   For Immediate Release: August 7, 2001


                                        Contact: Mark Pfeifle 202/208-6416


    Statement of Interior Secretary Gale Norton Regarding Klamath Lawsuit

   Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton expressed disappointment over a
   lawsuit filed today by several environmental groups challenging the
   Department's recent release of water for Klamath River Basin farmers.
   Secretary Norton issued the following statement:

   "This suit reflects a lack of understanding of the complexities of the
   issues. The Interior Department is working ceaselessly to find a
   long-term solution that will help farmers, tribes, fishermen, and
   wildlife. However, this year, there simply has not been enough water to
   do more than provide a little relief to some desperate farm families
   and a little relief to the refuges.

   "We began delivering 1,000 acre-feet this past weekend to help wildlife
   depending on refuge water. Bald eagles that winter on the refuge are
   hundreds of miles away at this time; the farmers in the Klamath Basin
   are not. Supplemental feeding of the eagles is already being considered
   in the event their natural food supply is affected by the water
   shortage.

   "We are working to find ways to solve the needs of all Basin interests
   for the remainder of the year. In the months ahead, we'll be looking at
   a number of options. These may include seeking new sources of
   groundwater, purchasing water from willing sellers, and developing
   alternative plans for ensuring a food supply for wildlife.

   "We are committed to working with all interested parties in the current
   mediation process to avoid a repeat of this situation next year and in
   the future. Through cooperation, communication, and conservation -- and
   hopefully more help from Mother Nature -- those "drops in the bucket"
   can multiply into a more permanent solution."

                                    -DOI-

    You can get to the Department of the Interior from here

    You can also view the index of press releases

    U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, USA
