http://seaboard.ndbc.noaa.gov/dial.shtml

   NWS Logo
                   National Data Buoy Center
                   Dial-A-Buoy Introduction
                                                                     NOAA Logo
   skip navigation Center of Excellence in Marine Technology
    home · faq · webmaster · disclaimer · privacy · guestbook · dial-a-buo
   y · links · sea worthy · vos

   Dial-A-Buoy Logo

   What is Dial-A-Buoy?

   Mariners can now hear the latest coastal and offshore weather
   observations through a new telephone service called Dial-A-Buoy.
   Dial-A-Buoy provides wind and wave measurements taken within the last
   hour at 65 buoy and 54 Coastal-Marine Automated Network (C-MAN)
   stations. The stations are located in the Atlantic, Pacific, Gulf of
   Mexico, and the Great Lakes and are operated by the National Data Buoy
   Center (NDBC). NDBC, a part of the National Weather Service (NWS),
   created Dial-A-Buoy to give mariners an easy way to obtain the reports
   via a cell phone.

   Large numbers of boaters use the observations, in combination with
   forecasts, to make decisions on whether it is safe to venture out. Some
   even claim that the reports have saved lives. Surfers use the reports
   to see if wave conditions are, or will soon be, promising. Many of
   these boaters and surfers live well inland, and knowing the conditions
   has saved them many wasted trips to the coast.

   An increasingly popular way to obtain the observations has been through
   the Internet. In fact, NDBC's web site has received more than a million
   hits a month. "Dial-A-Buoy is a logical extension to the Internet,"
   states NDBC's David Gilhousen. "It will allow the mariner a way to get
   the conditions while offshore, at the marina, or away from the
   Internet."

   Buoy reports include wind direction, speed, gust, significant wave
   height, swell and wind-wave heights and periods, air temperature, water
   temperature, and sea level pressure. Some buoys report wave directions.
   All C-MAN stations report the winds, air temperature, and pressure;
   some also report wave information, water temperature, visibility, and
   dew point.

   How do I use Dial-A-Buoy?

   To access Dial-A-Buoy, dial (228) 688-1948 using any touch tone or cell
   phone. Assuming you know the identifier of the station whose report you
   need, enter 1. Then, enter the five-digit (or character) station
   identifier, followed by the # sign, in response to the prompt. The
   system will ask you to confirm that your entry was correct by pressing
   1. After a few seconds, you will hear the latest buoy or C-MAN
   observation read via computer- generated voice. Characters are entered
   simply by pressing the key containing the character. For Q, press "7",
   and for Z, press "9". Please be patient and wait for the system to
   finish prompting you; Dial-A-Buoy will not understand your entry if you
   are too fast.

   Dial-A-Buoy also can read the latest NWS marine forecast for most
   station locations. If this option is available, the system will prompt
   you to press the # key after the observation is read. Wait to hear the
   tone at the end of the prompt before pressing the # key.

   When you are finished with Dial-A-Buoy, simply hang-up!

   There are several ways to find the station locations and identifiers.
   For Internet users, maps showing buoy locations are given at
   http://www.ndbc.noaa.gov/ . Telephone users have several options. They
   can enter a fax. number to receive a location map by following the
   prompts. Or, they can enter a latitude and longitude and receive the
   closest station locations and identifiers.

   How Does Dial-A-Buoy Work?

   The Dial-A-Buoy system does not actually dial into a buoy or C-MAN
   station. The phone calls are answered by a computer at NDBC. The
   computer runs Web-on-Call software to control the dialog and read the
   forecasts and observations from NDBC's web site. Web-on-Call, a
   commercial product from General Magic Corporation of Sunnyvale,
   California, controls the reading of Web pages over the phone.

   What are some problems with Dial-A-Buoy?

   I entered a station identifier, but heard a response "Sorry, I did not
   recognize that selection." You entered the station identifier too soon.
   Wait until the system finishes asking you for the identifier.

   How do I enter characters for a Station Identifier? Characters are
   entered simply by pressing the key containing the character. For Q,
   press "7", and for Z, presses "9". For example, to enter CHLV2, press
   the keys 24582 followed by the # sign.

   I entered a valid station identifier, but heard a response saying that
   the topic was unavailable after about 6 second delay. Occasionally, the
   Internet gets very busy here at Stennis Space Center. The Web-On-Call
   software, which runs Dial-A-Buoy, has been programmed to give this
   response if it cannot obtain our web page to read in about 5 seconds.
   So, unfortunately, the answer is: Try again later.

   I pressed the pound sign to get a marine forecast but heard the
   response, "Sorry I did not recognize that selection." You entered the
   pound sign too early. Wait until you hear a tone to press the pound
   sign.

   How do I quit Dial-A-Buoy? Simply hang-up.

   How do I hear the observations for another station? When you are
   finished hearing the observations or forecasts, the system will begin a
   long prompt saying, "To listen to this topic again, press 1......" If
   you press 6 at this point, Dial-A-Buoy will take you back to the
   beginning of the dialog.

   This page was last modified on Wednesday, 23-Jan-2002 13:27:56 CST
