http://www.tahoecons.ca.gov/ca_energy.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                           CTC Home Page
                           Programs
                           Board
                           Library/Data Downloads
                           Current Information
                           Job Opportunities
                                 CTC image



   California Tahoe Conservancy



                               __________ search
                                  (*)  My CA

   California's Energy Challenge

   The energy challenge facing California is real.

   California continues to experience electrical shortages that threaten
   rolling blackouts throughout the State. To reduce the risk of power
   outages, the most important thing we can do in the short term is reduce
   our demand for electricity and use energy more efficiently.

   The Governor and leaders of the California Legislature are working with
   utility companies, generators and consumer groups to fashion long-term
   solutions for reliable and affordable electricity. The State has
   already implemented a plan to reduce consumption by 8-10 percent across
   the board.

   And you have an important role to play right now.

   We in California have the power of 35 million people and the sixth
   largest economy in the world. By reducing our electricity demand we can
   help avoid shortages and lower energy bills.

   All you have to do is FLEX YOUR POWER.

   Simple things that you can do right now to reduce demand and cut your
   own energy costs:
     * Turn thermostats down to 68 degrees or below. Reduce settings to 55
       degrees before going to sleep or when away for the day. For each 1
       degree, you'll save up to 5% on your heating costs.
     * Turn off non-essential lights and appliances.
     * Avoid running large appliances such as washers, dryers, and
       electric ovens from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
     * Close shades and blinds at night to reduce the amount of heat lost
       through windows. Close off vents in rooms that are not being used.
     * Buy Energy Star appliances, products and lights.
     * Turn off ALL computers, monitors, printers, and copiers that are
       not being used for essential activities.
     * Take steps to implement "power management capabilities" on ALL
       desktop devices. Power management can yield energy savings, save
       money, and extend your computer's life cycle.
     * Minimize energy usage during the peak demand hours of 6:30 a.m. and
       9 a.m., and 4 p.m. and 8 p.m.
     * Turn off any light that are not needed, especially in unused
       offices and conference rooms. Turn down the remaining lighting
       levels if you can.
     * Turn off your computer if you are out of the office for more than a
       few minutes. Where possible make sure it's set to "sleep" mode.
     * Use laptop computers if possible. They use significantly less
       energy than standard desktop computers.
     * Use networked printers rather than dedicated printers for another
       significant eneregy savings as well.

   Please be advised that "screen savers" are NOT considered power
   management. Power management is invoked by activating each desktop's
   "sleep" mode function, which varies between Window 95, 98, NT, and
   2000. Please consult your technical support personnel to accomplish
   this seamlessly.

   Furthermore, we recommend that these measures NOT be implemented where
   health and human safety may be at risk.

                             Back to Top of Page
                        California Tahoe Conservancy
    2161 Lake Tahoe Blvd., Suite 2 · South Lake Tahoe, CA 96150 · (530)
                      542-5580 · (530) 542-5591 (fax)
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                        Privacy Policy CTC Disclaimer
