http://epic.od.nih.gov/help/help_help.asp



   e-PIC e-PIC e-PIC
                    e-PIC logo


   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC?
   Initial Registration/Update Profile
   Simple/Smart search of organizations registered in the e-PIC system
   Help
   e-PIC Home page
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC
   e-PIC



                How to Use the e-portals in Commerce (e-PIC)
     __________________________________________________________________

   e-PIC is designed to be a user-friendly system.  The system provides
   step-by-step data entry instructions along with the registration
   process.  General guidance on how to use the system is provided below
   while detailed information provided throughout the profile registration
   pages is available when you click the Help Help button or the
   hyperlinked phrases.

   In order to optimize system performance and to ensure execution of
   registration, registrants should complete online data entry within the
   preset forty (40) minute session time period.


                            Bullet e-PIC Web Site

   e-PIC provides dynamic and user-friendly navigation functions. There
   are a number of ways to navigate the system.

   The e-PIC logo is designed as a navigational tool and assists you in
   navigating the system throughout the Web site. No matter where you are
   in the e-PIC Web site, as long as you point your mouse to the e-PIC
   logo, it will pop-up with options/links that cover the entire range of
   functions in the e-PIC system. The e-PIC logo, located at the upper
   right corner of the screen, is a half classic-compass designed for
   users to navigate the e-PIC registration process and virtual
   marketplace. The options/links are:
     * Registration
       The registration process is only required for organizations that
       provide products and services and wish to be included in the e-PIC
       database. To perform searches and locate profile information in the
       e-PIC database, no registration is required.
          + New Profile: Enables organizations to register in e-PIC.
          + Update Profile: Enables organizations to update profile
            information. (Must be registered in e-PIC, see New Profile.)
     * Search
          + Simple Search: Enables one to conduct a simple search of the
            e-PIC database to select a particular organization or to
            generate a list of organizations meeting specific selection
            criteria.
          + Smart Search: Enables one to conduct a dynamic smart search of
            the e-PIC database to select a particular organization or to
            generate a list of organizations meeting specific selection
            criteria that have been smartly screened by industry/size
            standard relationship criteria.
     * Help: Provides guidance for system navigation.
     * Home: By clicking, returns you to the e-PIC Home Page.

     Simply click the option/link and the e-PIC compass will navigate
     there.


              When you point your
              PC mouse on the logo  Arrow
   e-PIC logo                             e-PIC logo with Navigational Function

     The e-PIC Web site left banner contains the same options/links that
       enable navigation as well. The links and the functions are (for
                          definitions, see above):

                  · Register (New Profile/Update Profile)

                   · Search (Simple Search/Smart Search)

                                   · Help

                                   · Home

   Remember, you can always click the text at the bottom of Web page to
   navigate as well.


                           Bullet New to the NAICS

   Among other things, the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA),
   1993, stimulated interest in eliminating barriers to cross-national
   flow of goods, services and capital investment for the North American
   countries. Along with this interest, a need for a common industry
   classification system and a U.S. effort already underway to revise the
   outdated U.S. Standard Industrial Classification System (SIC Code), a
   coordinated effort among U.S., Canada and Mexico took shape to explore
   new approaches to classifying economic activity.

   The U.S. Office of Management and Budget established the Economic
   Classification Policy Committee to work with comparable committees from
   Canada and Mexico to establish a new classification system. The new
   system would generate uniform and comparable economic data for the
   North American countries. This consolidated effort, an enormous
   undertaking, was intended to facilitate economic analyses of the
   economies of these three North American countries. Each country’s
   statistical agency produces information on inputs and outputs,
   industrial performance, productivity, unit labor costs, and employment.
   North American Industrial Classification Code (NAICS) would replace
   each country’s existing classification system and would be constructed
   within a single conceptual framework, whereby, economic units having
   similar production processes are classified in the same industry.

   NAICS U.S. generates statistical data describing the U.S. economy.
   NAICS U.S. also may be used for other administrative, regulatory,
   taxation, etc., purposes, although these functional areas played no
   role in system development. The U.S. Federal government uses industry
   classifications for procurement purposes, both for classifying the
   procurement action and for procurement data reporting and analyses.

   Effective October 1, 2000, the new NAICS will be applied to procurement
   actions solicited and awarded after that date for industry and size
   related classification purposes. The Small Business Administration,
   charged with establishing size standards against industry
   classifications, established size standards based on number of
   employees or average annual sales or assets or electric output for
   determining business size.

   The NAICS system, similar in hierarchical structure to the SIC Code
   system, includes 20 Sectors and 1,170 industries in NAICS U.S. The
   first 2 of the 6 digit structure represents the sectors of economic
   activity, the third digit designates the sub sector, the fourth digit
   designates the industry group, the fifth digit designates the NAICS
   industry and the sixth digit designates the national industry. A zero
   sixth digit generally indicates that the NAICS and U.S. industries are
   the same. There are approximately 150 new NAICS capturing new sectors
   such as Information, Professional, Scientific and Technical Service,
   Arts, Entertainment and Recreation.

   "New to the NAICS" offers information that is provided in the "North
   American Industry Classification System, United States, 1997" manual
   published by the Executive Office of the President, Office of
   Management and Budget. For basic information about NAICS, please
   visit  http://www.ntis.gov/product/naics.htm  "New to the NAICS" has
   the following dynamic on-line functions to help users access Industry
   Classification Codes:

                            NAICS Keyword Search:

   This function enables you to search NAICS codes by entering a keyword
   of your organization's main activities.Simply type in a keyword, e.g.,
   "Computer," and then select searching by "Title" or "Business
   Activity." Searching by "Title" will generate search results that are
   based on the matching of the keyword you enter and the NAICS code
   titles; while searching by "Business Activity" will generate search
   results that are based on the matching of the keyword you enter and the
   alphabetic index of NAICS business activities.
   The search result will display the matching NAICS codes and the
   corresponding description. To view the details of each NAICS Code,
   click the "Details" hyperlink in the "View" column. To continue viewing
   more search results, click the hyperlink under "Next Page."
   You can always go back to the "New to the NAICS" main menu page by
   clicking the "Back" button.

                           NAICS Alphabetic Index

   This function enables you to search NAICS codes using the alphabetic
   list of activities in the NAICS manual. For example, to search an
   activity starting with the letter "B," click the "B" hyperlink under
   "Alphabetical Listings" at the bottom of the page, and then the system
   will bring you to the section of all NAICS activities starting with
   "B." To view the detail of a particular code, click the "Details"
   hyperlink in the "View" column. To continue viewing more search
   results, click the hyperlink under "Next Page."
   You can always go back to the "New to the NAICS" main menu page by
   clicking the "Back" button.

                        NAICS Titles and Descriptions

   This function presents complete on-line information of the entire list
   of NAICS titles with detailed descriptions. To view each
   sector/industry, simply click the number hyperlink in the "Sector"
   column. To view the description of a particular NAICS code, simply
   click the "Details" hyperlink in the "View" column.
   You can always go back to the "New to the NAICS" main menu page by
   clicking the "Back" button.

               Small Business Size Standards by NAICS Industry

   For Federal acquisition purpose, the Small Business Administration
   (SBA) has assigned small business size standards matched to NAICS. The
   size standards are matched by number of employees, average annual
   sales, assets (for financial and insurance organizations), or total
   electric output (for utility firms). This function enables you to view
   the size standard according to your organization's NAICS code. For
   up-to-date information, you can also visit  SBA's Small Size Standard
   Site.
   You can always go back to the "New to the NAICS" main menu page by
   clicking the "Back" button.

                             NAICS to SIC Search

   This function enables you to search the matched Standard Industrial
   Classification (SIC) code for a particular NAICS code.
   You can always go back to the "New to the NAICS" main menu page by
   clicking the "Back" button.

                             SIC to NAICS Search

   This function enables you to search the matched NAICS code for a
   particular SIC code.
   You can always go back to the "New to the NAICS" main menu page by
   clicking the "Back" button.


     Bullet The NAICS system replaced the SIC system on October 1, 2000.


                      Bullet Object Classification Code

   Object class codes, prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget
   (OMB), are used uniformly throughout the Government in submitting
   budget estimates and budget reports to OMB and Congress. The major
   object class codes are further broken down into sub-object class codes
   by agencies for accounting purposes, because appropriate codes are
   essential to Central Accounting Systems and must be entered for every
   financial transaction.

   The major object class codes are a numeric code structure and are
   extended by adding two digits, numeric/alpha, to further identify
   groups of objects and specific objects. Sub-object class codes permit
   more detailed review or analysis of common or special interest classes
   of object and insure uniform reporting of certain data. Additional
   object and sub-object class codes may be added and used when needed by
   agencies, as appropriate.

   Contracting and Purchasing Officials should ensure accuracy of object
   class codes assigned.

   For more information, visit http://www-dw.cit.nih.gov/dw/datatown.htm ,
   and to access the NIH Object Class Code search engine, visit
   http://www-dw.cit.nih.gov/scripts/objclass/occ.cfm.


                         Bullet e-PIC Bulletin Board

   The e-PIC Bulletin Board is a system feature that serves the e-PIC
   community as an information exchange gateway. The e-PIC Administrator
   posts e-PIC news and messages of interest to the community through the
   Bulletin Board. e-PIC "searchers," including the Federal community, may
   conduct market research of the e-PIC community by posting market
   surveys through the Bulletin Board. e-PIC registrants may network and
   post business opportunity messages, e.g., searching for subcontract or
   teaming partners, through one or multiple categories listed on the
   board's menu, noting an e-mail address for replies. To navigate the
   bulletin board: click categories to read messages; click the name of
   the e-mail author to initiate e-mail messaging; click post to create
   new messages; click the e-PIC Admistrator to request editorial changes
   to a message, including deletions. All messages will be deleted from
   the Bulletin Board after sixty (60) calendar days. e-mail replies to
   messages will be forwarded to the e-mail address noted on posted
   message only, without Bulletin Board display.


                        Bullet What Is a Registrant?

   A registrant is an organization that chooses to register itself in the
   e-PIC system to profile its products and services. The information
   provided by registrants can be accessed by "searchers," people who
   conduct searches on the e-PIC system to locate sources that can provide
   products and/or services. Profiles contain all the information a
   registrant inputs to the system, except sensitive information,
   including TIN(Tax Payer Identification number)/EIN (Employee
   Identification Number)/SSN (Social Security Number), number of
   employees, average annual sales, assets (for financial and insurance
   institutes), and total electric output (for utility firms). Registrants
   of the system will be responsible for updating their profiles and
   keeping information current and accurate.


                    Bullet How to Register / New Profile

   To initiate profile registration in e-PIC, simply click the hyperlink
   "New Profile."

   Once e-PIC is activated, data entry fields will have to be completed.
   e-PIC will prompt you to input your TIN, EIN or SSN, which will serve
   as your system User Identification (ID). The system prompts you to
   choose, enter, and confirm a password that will be stored and serve to
   access the system in the future. If you are a foreign company or
   organization that does not have a TIN/EIN/SSN, please contact the e-PIC
   system administrator by clicking the "e-PIC Administrator" at the
   bottom of the Web page.

   To submit your password click the "Submit" button to begin profile data
   entry. Profiles are collected from data entry fields located throughout
   the e-PIC registration. Pages I through III are mandatory and contain
   many mandatory data fields; Pages IV through VIII are optional, but
   e-PIC strongly recommends you complete them to provide a more
   comprehensive profile of your organization. Help buttons located
   throughout the system contain information about data entry fields and
   input. Just simply click the Help for definition and help or
   the hyperlinked phrases .


                   Bullet Navigating the Registration Form

   Navigating throughout the page can be accomplished by using the TAB key
   on your keyboard or pointing your mouse to a particular field. Page
   navigation can be accomplished by clicking the "Next" or "Previous"
   buttons. Mandatory information input to Pages I through III must be
   completed before you navigate to "Next" or "Previous."

   Page navigation also can be accomplished by clicking the number sign,
   I, II, III, …and VIII on the large compass, "Page Navigator," located
   on the upper left corner of each registration page. The red pointer as
   well as the highlighted number sign indicates the page that is
   activated. The Page Navigator compass indicates that Pages I through
   III collect Mandatory Information and Pages IV through VIII collect
   Optional Information.

   Again, please note that during the initial registration, it is
   necessary that you complete data entry input to the mandatory fields
   and pages before you click "Next" or "Previous."

                             Page I (Mandatory)

   Page I prompts data input regarding your organization's name, address,
   organizational e-mail, Web site address, etc.

                             Page II (Mandatory)

   Page II prompts for profile details about your organization, such as,
   Type of Organization, Type of Ownership, Type of Business, Size of
   Business, Small Business Administration PRO-Net ID and Year of
   Establishment. The Type of Ownership and Business fields can have
   multiple checks.

   The "Size of Business" data entry filed provides an opportunity to
   self-certify size, i.e., "Small" if you are a small business or "Other"
   if you are not. The "Simple Search" function screens size by the
   self-certified information input into this data field.

                            Page III (Mandatory)

   Page III prompts data entry of the number of employees in your
   organization, your average annual sales, assets (for financial and
   insurance institutes), and total electric output (for utility firms) in
   actual numbers. This information is screened by the "Smart Search"
   engine to determine correct size status by industry standards and
   thresholds. Next, you are prompted to enter the keywords which can best
   describe your organization's products and/or services. Finally, you are
   prompted to enter your North American Industry Classification System
   (NAICS) Codes. Links are available to other information resources to
   assist in decision-making.

   After completing Pages I through III, save and submit the information
   by clicking the "Submit" button. The e-PIC System will respond by
   e-mail confirming your registration with your User ID and Password. If
   you elect to continue registration, complete Pages IV to VIII. Click on
   the "Next" button as you navigate or the submit button to update and
   save your data.

   Pages IV to VIII (Optional)

   Pages IV to VIII prompt for more profiling information about the
   organization. The information fields include: Project Summary,
   E-Commerce Capability, Contract Vehicles, Product/Service Promotional
   Information, Market Research Response, Facility Description, and Name
   of the Parent/Affiliates (if your organization is related to another
   company).

   Completing profiles information from Pages IV through VIII is optional
   but is highly recommended because of the importance of business
   information.

   After completing these pages and fields of information, click "Submit"
   to conclude the registration process. e-PIC system will confirm
   registration by e-mail.


             Bullet Product / Service Promotional Information :


   This profile data entry section enables you to provide more information
   about the products or services that your organization offers and to
   establish web-links to information posted at your Web site. You may
   choose a variety of methods for offering and packaging such
   information, e. g., electronic catalogues and capability statements,
   Federal forms such as the Standard Form (SF) 129, brochures, or other
   literature.
   Please complete appropriate promotional information and provide the
   web-links to this information for viewing through the e-PIC profile
   search function.

   Catalogue:On-line catalogue that contains your product/service
   information, including any e-commerce potential as well as access to
   web-links.

   Capability Statement: On-line capability statement or briefing that
   contains pertinent information reflecting the organization’s
   capability, including: information about its identity; corporate
   experience; highlights of specialized and unique composite corporate
   experience; key personnel; key partnering relationships with any other
   entity, to include large or other small organizations; past performance
   history; and “organizational” or “key personnel” related information
   and experience supporting capability claims. Additionally, and
   depending on the target customer, information ranging from general and
   broad-based to specialized and focused can be presented reflecting an
   understanding of the targeted customer, their needs and expectations as
   well as how an organization is able to satisfy those needs, while
   maintaining a competitive position, both cost and technical, in the
   marketplace.
   The capability statement or briefing should include:

   [bullet1.gif]

   Introduction: Executive Summary, Vision/ Mission Statement, Narrative
   of Services, etc.

   [bullet1.gif]

   Description of products/services: highlights of “niche” areas or unique
   features, etc.

   [bullet1.gif]

   Resumes: include key personnel and or consultant access, as appropriate

   [bullet1.gif]

   Past Performance: performance history and accomplishments, references

   Brochure: On-line brochures offering summary information about an
   organization.
   Other: Other formats of promotional information on-line can be
   specified here, noting web-links.
   The following Federal SF forms 129, 254 and 255, which are web-enabled
   for on-line input through e-PIC, are other means of providing
   capability information.
   To open any of the forms, simply click the drop-down arrow in the
   Product/Service Promotional Information data fields, and then double
   click the form of choice. A pop-up window appears for 2 minutes with
   instructions on how to edit, submit, save and establish web-links to
   completed forms. Web-links appear as hyperlinks in e-PIC profiles that
   are generated through the e-PIC "Search” system function.

   Procedures for saving completed forms:

   [bullet1.gif]

   Select File

   [bullet1.gif]

   Select "Save As":


   -    In Netscape at asp prompt, change to .html extensions.


   -    In the Internet Explorer, system automatically prompts .html
   extensions

   [bullet1.gif]

   Edit forms in local copy, save as needed.

   [bullet1.gif]

   Establish Web-link for the e-PIC profile.

   [bullet1.gif]

   Contact your Webmaster to establish reading access to this form at your
   Web Site.

   Standard Form 129 (SF 129):The SF 129 is the Federal Government's
   official Solicitation Mailing List Application that an organization may
   choose to complete and file with Federal contracting offices for
   inclusion on agency "bidders" or "solicitation" mailing lists. Although
   the e-PIC system collects such information via e-PIC registered
   information on its Web platform, some Federal agencies continue to
   utilize this form for information collection; therefore, this SF 129 is
   available for e-PIC registrants to complete on-line for posting at the
   registrant's Web site. Click the drop-down arrow, double click the
   form, enter data. A pop up window appears for 2 minutes with
   instructions to edit, submit, save, and establish a web-link for the
   completed form.

   Standard Form 254 (SF 254):The SF 254 is the Federal Government's
   official "Architect-Engineer (A-E) and Related Services Questionnaire."
   Federal policy encourages firms to submit annually a statement of
   qualifications and performance data for agency consideration of A-E
   qualifications and as a screening basis for future A-E project
   consideration. This SF 254 is available for e-PIC registrants to
   complete on-line for posting at the registrant's Web site. Click the
   drop-down arrow, double click the form, enter data. A pop up window
   appears for 2 minutes with instructions to edit, submit, save, and
   establish a web-link for the completed form.

   Standard Form 255 (SF 255): The SF 255 is the Federal Government's
   official supplement to the "Architect-Engineer (A-E) and Related
   Services Questionnaire." Federal policy encourages firms to submit
   annually a statement of qualifications and performance data for agency
   consideration of A-E qualifications and as a screening basis for future
   A-E project consideration. This SF 255 supplement to the SF 254 is
   available for e-PIC registrants to complete on-line for posting at the
   registrant's Web site. Click the drop-down arrow, double click the
   form, enter data. A pop up window appears for 2 minutes with
   instructions to edit, submit, save, and establish a web-link for the
   completed form.

                       Bullet Market Research Response

   e-PIC registrants responding to specific market research surveys may
   use this data field to confirm a positive response of availability,
   interest, and potential technical capability. Registrants' capability
   may be showcased through hyperlinks to tailored capability
   statement(s), maintained at the e-PIC registrant's Web site. Capability
   statements should be dated and very specifically respond to the
   technical, management, and product/service potential areas requested in
   the survey.

                         Bullet Facility Description

   This profile data entry section prompt you to describe your facilities,
   which can be offices, labs, or any other resources that can be made
   available under contract performance. Information should include the
   minimum of equipment, space, location, security, if appropriate, and
   any other information that will help prospective clients better
   understand your organization's capability.


   Bullet FedBizzOpps

   FedBizzOpps replaces the Commerce Business Dailey, the Federal
   publication for acquisition-related announcements, on October 1, 2001.
   FedBizzOpps is a web-based publication, where Federal agencies will
   post notices of “request for proposals,” “invitation for bids,” award
   notices; special notices, market surveys, etc. Organizations can
   subscribe to FedBizzOpps to electronically receive such notices. For
   more information, please visit http://firstgov.gov.

                       Bullet Past Performance history

   The Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 requires that Federal
   acquisition personnel evaluate a contractor’s performance as a
   selection criterion prior to making a new award (see Federal
   Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 42.15), since a contractor’s past
   performance is recognized as a reliable predictor of future
   performance. Although subscribing Federal departments and agencies can
   evaluate a contractor’s performance on contracts less than $100,000,
   the FAR requires that all Federal contracts in excess of $100,000 be
   evaluated for a contractor’s performance relating to quality of product
   or service, timeliness of performance, cost control, business
   practices, and customer service (Department of Defense (DD) and
   construction/A-E contracts have a higher threshold).

   The National Institutes of Health Contractor Performance System (CPS)
   was developed to implement, efficiently and economically, a valuable
   Government program to evaluate contractor’s performance prior to making
   new awards. Currently the CPS is the only civilian Web-based contractor
   performance system in the Federal Government and has been embraced by
   other Federal departments/agencies in order to share information. The
   CPS promotes cooperation and partnership throughout the Federal
   Government and ensures that the most proficient contractors are
   selected to provide the Government’s goods and services.

   Registrants should check appropriate box(s) to reflect completed past
   performance reviews. For more information on the NIH Contractor
   Performance System (CPS) visit http://cps.od.nih.org, for Department of
   Defence (DD) visit http://www.acq.osd.mil, for NASA review
   http://server-mpo.arc.nasa.gov/PastPerf/PPHome.taf ."

                          Bullet Contract Vehicles

   "Contract Vehicles" are established contracts or agreements through
   which Federal agencies can purchase supplies and/or services. Such
   contract vehicles can provide Federal agencies a streamlined and
   convenient method of acquisition. Registrants should select all the
   data fields that reflect the organization's contract vehicles.

   Blanket Purchase Agreement:  A Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) is a
   simplified purchasing method used to fill anticipated repetitive needs
   for supplies or services by establishing "charge accounts" with
   qualified vendors. The quantities and delivery requirements are not
   known in advance. This type of arrangement allows orders to be placed
   orally. BPAs are established at $0 dollars with no Government
   commitment and are only activated when orders are placed against them.

   Federal Malls:   Federal Cyber Malls where vendors sell supplies or
   services.

   NIH IntraMall:   The NIH IntraMall is an electronic catalogue and
   ordering system designed to purchase, track, and account for
   laboratory, office and computer supplies/equipment through use of
   Goverment purchase cards.

   GSA Supply Schedule:  The GSA Schedule, or the Federal Supply Schedule
   Program, directed and managed by the General Services Administration
   (GSA), provides Federal agencies with a simplified process for
   obtaining commonly used commercial supplies and services at prices
   associated with volume buying. Indefinite delivery contracts (including
   requirements contracts) are established with commercial firms to
   provide supplies and services at stated prices for given periods of
   time. The GSA schedule contracting office issues publications, entitled
   Federal Supply Schedules, containing the information necessary for
   placing delivery orders with schedule contractors. Ordering offices
   issue delivery orders directly to the schedule contractors for the
   required supplies and services. For more information, please visit
   http://www.gsa.gov.

   Indefinite-Delivery/Indefinite-Quantity: An Indefinite
   Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contract provides for an indefinite
   quantity, within stated limits, of supplies or services to be furnished
   during a fixed period, with delivery or performance to be scheduled by
   placing delivery or task orders with the contractor. Quantity limits
   may be expressed in terms of numbers of units or as dollar values.

   Government Wide Agency Contracts (GWACs) and Multiple Agency Contracts
   (MACs) utilize delivery and task order contracting to obtain supplies
   and services to satisfy the needs of more than one Federal agency.

   -GWACs are issued solely for the acquisition of information technology
    products and services. Authority for issuing GWACs is derived either
       through: (1) delegation of procurement authority by the General
   Services Administration prior to August 8, 1996, under the Brooks Act,
     40 U.S.C. 759; or (2) designation as an executive agent to act as a
     servicing agency by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to
        section 5112(e) of the Clinger-Cohen Act, 40 U.S.C. 1412(e).

       -MACs can be used to acquire any type of service and supplies,
   including information technology. The servicing agency must have a need
     for the supplies or services that it will be procuring on behalf of
     requesting agencies. MACs may be issued under the authority of the
        Economy Act, unless more specific statutory authority exists.

   NIH Stock Program : The NIH Stock Program offers thousands and
   thousands of stock items, such as laboratory, chemical and
   administrative items, at discounted prices to the NIH community through
   the agency's supply system. The supply system contains items through
   stockrooms as well as through virtual and walk-in self-service stores.
   For additional information about the NIH Stock Program, please visit
   http://silk.nih.gov/silk/olm/supply.index.html.

   Other:   "Other Contract Vehicles:" If your organization offers other
   contract vehicles, please specify in this data field.

                       Bullet Mandatory Annual Update

   Registrants must confirm profiling information annually to remain in
   the e-PIC system. Annual anniversary dates are calculated from the last
   entrance to the e-PIC system. Annual confirmation is accomplished by
   clicking the "Annual Update" button, after a registrant enters the User
   ID and password in the Update Profile mode. The e-PIC administrator
   will notify registrants by e-mail fifteen (15) days before registration
   expires.

                            Bullet Update Profile

   Update profile information by clicking the hyperlink "Update Profile"
   after entering the TIN/EIN/SSN as well as your password for access to
   profile pages. Registrants are encouraged to maintain current and
   accurate profile information.

   If you forget your password, simply click the link "Forgot Your
   Password ?" to reset your password. The system will prompt for your
   TIN, EIN OR SSN, the year established, and the city that was entered
   previously.

   Navigation of the Registration Form

   Please see "Navigation of the Registration Form" in "How to
   Register/New Profile" for details.

                                Bullet Search

   The search function enables viewing a particular registrant in the
   e-PIC system or a list of sources that provides products and services.
   Accessing a registrant's profile is accomplished by clicking the
   registrant's hyperlink. Profiles contain all the information a
   registrant inputs to the system, excluding sensitive information, i.e.,
   TIN/EIN/SSN, number of employees, average annual sales, assets (for
   financial and insurance institutes), and total electric output (for
   utility firms). Two types of search engines are available: "Simple
   Search" and "Smart Search."

   Simple Search

   The Simple Search function conducts a search by selecting one or up to
   all of the following criteria:

                                · Registrant

                                   · City

                                  · State

                           · Size of Organization

                             · Type of Business

                            · Type of Ownership

                       · Keyword or Keyword Phrases.

   When choosing the "Size of Organization" as one of the criteria, the
   system will search the database by the registrants' self-certification
   in the "Size of Business" field, i.e., "Small" if they are a small
   business or "Other" if they are not.

   Keywords and/or Keyword phrases are separated by "and" or "or"
   triggering inclusive or optional selections.

   Some search fields read "None or Select" enabling the searcher to click
   the drop-down arrow to make a selection. Some search fields read "None
   or Select One or Multiple Items" enabling the searcher to click the
   drop-down arrow to make a single selection or to click multiple
   selections for access to a new window for lists. Consecutive selections
   can be made by depressing and holding the "Shift" key. Random
   selections can be made by depressing and holding the "Ctrl" key. When
   the searcher returns to the search screen, the data field will confirm
   multiple selections by returning to the default "None or Select One or
   Multiple Items".

   After selecting search criteria, simply click the "Search" button to
   generate a search result report with short profiles of matching
   organizations. To view complete profiles, simply click the registrant's
   hyperlink. The report will display a maximum of fourteen (14) records
   per page. To go to the next set of records, simply click "Next Page" or
   the Page assignment at the lower left corner of the screen. The report
   will also display the total number of the matched registrants found in
   the e-PIC system at the top of the report. The report shows matched
   registrants in alphabetic order.

   Refine Search

   If you have not selected all of the search criteria, to further enhance
   your search results, simply click the "Refine Search" hyperlink.
   "Refine Search" is available in both simple search and smart search
   functions. "Refine Search" can be found at both the top and bottom of
   the search result report and enables you to go back and select more
   criteria to the one(s) already selected, in order to enhance search
   result. To refine data fields with multiple selections, simply click
   "None or Select One or Multiple Items" to open the pop-up window to add
   or delete items.

   Smart Search

   The Smart Search function enables viewing of a particular registrant in
   the e-PIC system or a list of sources providing products and/or
   services. You can always access a registrant's complete profile by
   clicking the registrant's hyperlink. The profile contains all the
   information a registrant input to the system, excluding sensitive
   information, i.e., TIN/EIN/SSN, number of employees, average annual
   sales, assets (for financial and insurance institutes), and total
   electric output (for utility firms).

   The smart search function conducts dynamic searches by selecting one or
   up to all of the following criteria:

                                · Registrant

                                   · City

                                  · State

                           · Type of Organization

                           · Size of Organization

                            · Type of Ownership

                             · Type of Business

                        · Keyword or Keyword Phrases

                     · Accept Government Purchase Card

                          · E-Commerce Capability

                      · Electronic Banking Capability

                          · Contract Vehicles, and

                                · NAICS Code

   Some search fields read "None or Select" enabling the searcher to click
   the drop-down arrow to make a selection. Some search fields read "None
   or Select One or Multiple Items" enabling the searcher to click the
   drop-down arrow to make a single selection or to click multiple
   selections for access to a new window for lists. Consecutive selections
   can be made by depressing and holding the "Shift" key. Random
   selections can be made by depressing and holding down the "Ctrl" key.
   When the searcher returns to the search screen, the data field will
   confirm multiple selections by returning to the default "None or Select
   One or Multiple Items".

   NAICS Code Search

   The NAICS Code search function searches the registration database to
   find the organizations that provide supplies and/or services under
   particular NAIC codes.
   Based on Federal small business size thresholds as they relate to NAICS
   codes, the system will screen the size of business by information input
   by registrants in the "Number of Employees," the "Average Annual
   Sales," "Assets" (for financial and insurance institutes), or "Total
   Electric Output" (for utility firms) registration fields. The search
   report distinguishes if the selected organization is a small or is not
   a small business by showing "Small" or "Other" in the "Size
   Classification," or eliminates an organization if size is a search
   criterion and the organization is not an eligible match.
   If you are not familiar with the NAICS codes or need more information,
   click "New to the NAICS" hyperlink.


                 Bullet Log-in Problem or Further Assistance

   For any other help, please contact the e-PIC Administrator, the
   National Institutes of Health (NIH) Small Business Office (SBO), by
   clicking "e-PIC Administrator/Feedback Form" at the bottom of each Web
   page.

                            Bullet Feedback Form

   Your feedback for the e-PIC system will be highly appreciated. To send
   your feedback, simply click "e-PIC Administrator/Feedback Form" at the
   bottom of each Web page.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                   <<Back

                             [print.gif]    Help

                    e-PIC Administrator/Feedback Form
   New Profile | Update Profile | Simple Search | Smart Search | Help |
   Home
