http://www.loganco.gov/about.htm

                                 County Home
                             [courthousetin.gif]

   About Logan County
   County Government
   Local Web Sites
     Announcements
   County Budget
   Contact Us









     smallcourt.gif (6807 bytes)
       littlebanner.gif (5856 bytes)

                           current.gif (5613 bytes)

     Logan County, located in the northeast corner of Colorado, is a
     rapidly growing agriculture and industry-based community.  Sterling
     is the "hub city" and is located 125 miles from Denver, 90 minutes
     from DIA, and 40 minutes from I-80.  Logan County is rated among the
     best in the state.  Logan County is host to numerous festivals and
     fairs.


Population and Projections

                                                            1995

                                                                      1998

                                                                             2000

                                                                                    2010

                           18,774    18,828 21,163 24,827

     For more demographics visit these sites:

     Logan County Economic Development Site

     General Profile for Logan County

     Population Estimates
     Labor Force and Commuting Data
     Housing Characteristics
     Income and Poverty Data
     Social Characteristics


   THE HISTORY OF LOGAN COUNTY

                       [LoganCourthouse_postcard.jpg]

   Logan County was formed by an act of the Colorado State Legislature on
   February 25, 1887.  The County was formerly a part of Weld County and
   citizens from the eastern part of the state were required to travel to
   Greeley, the county seat to conduct official business.  Citizens
   petitioned the state legislature to form the new county.  Later on,
   Philips and Sedgwick Counties were created from the original Logan
   County.

   Serving on the first Board of County Commissioners for Logan County
   were: Henry Schneider, D. B. Morgan and Jacob Furry.  Governor Alba B.
   Adams appointed the men and also appointed W. S. Hadfield several
   months later to fill a vacancy created by the death of Commissioner
   Furry.  Other officials appointed to oversee the new Logan County were
   W. F. Kiester, Clerk and Recorder; M. H. Smith, Treasurer; H. T.
   Sutherland, County Assessor; John Tobin, Sheriff; T. L. Watson, County
   Judge; Dr. David Beach, Coroner; J. J. Cheairs, Surveyor; and Oscar
   Trego, County Superintendent of Schools.

   Construction on the present Logan County Courthouse was begun in 1908.
   J. J. Huddard of Denver was retained as architect to design the new
   Courthouse.  Construction was completed in 1910 by Sterling contractors
   Kaepernik and Jenkins.

   The white-pressed brick and white stone trimming cost approximately
   $100,000 and on Saturday, March 5, 1910 it is estimated that 6,000
   persons participated in the formal opening ceremony for the eloquent
   new structure.  Emerson Warren, C. M. Morris and J. O. Shay were
   Commissioners at the time of the Courthouse construction.

   Dedication ceremonies were held on March 5, 1910 with approximately
   6,000 persons in attendance.
   Photographs of earlier days are hanging in the first floor rotunda and
   also in the Commissioners Office.
   Feel free to stop by, look around and enjoy one of Colorados most
   beautiful Courthouses.

                           Courthouse Restoration

   In 1983 the Board of County Commissioners negotiated the restoration of
   the Courthouse Rotunda which was highlighted by:
   °Restoration of rotunda columns, decorative ceiling trim painting,
   woodwork, walls and floors.  Every effort was made to utilize original
   colors and painting techniques.
   °Original Fire Hoses were recovered and restored and hang in the
   rotunda of each floor. They are now non-operative and are for
   decorative purposes only.
   °Replacement of the Stained Glass in the ceiling of the rotunda and
   installation of backlighting.  The original stained glass was
   reportedly broken by a roll of falling roofing material during repair
   work many years ago.
   °Placement of Eugene Carara Oil Paintings in the basement rotunda area.
   Individual paintings were purchased by private citizens and then
   donated to Logan County to keep the work together. Each painting is
   symbolic of an historically important event or location to the people
   of northeastern Colorado.

   °Duplication and placement of the original courthouse blueprints in the
   first and second floor rotunda areas.
   Donations in the amount of $17,600 aided in the restoration and a
   Sterling Founders Day celebration was held in the rotunda area of the
   Courthouse on November 10, 1984.

   Logan County was recently awarded an Energy Impact Assistance Grant
   from the Colorado Department of Local Affairs in the amount of $250,000
   which will address installation of an ADA elevator into the
   Courthouse.

   For further reading on Logan County History, recommended are: A History
   of Logan County by Emma Rose Conklin and The Logan County Ledger by
   Dale Bud Wells.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Paintings in the basement rotunda area by Eugene Carara are symbolic of
   an historically important event or location to the people of
   northeastern Colorado.

   Survival on the Colorado Prairie - depicts the hardship and suffering
   of the Cheyenne people who lived in this area during some of the severe
   winters of the 1860's.  Once abundant bison was disappearing.  Here,
   the viewer is exposed to the chill of the northwest wind that must have
   cut the skin of the Indian women as they went to work gutting the
   fallen beast.  The Remington style and pieces of his work are borrowed
   for this tribute.
   The Return of Sarah Morris - This painting depicts more than just the
   return of Sarah Morris.  The contradiction of mans inability to relate
   to other societies has been evident throughout history.  The exposure
   of the American Indian to the white man is a perfect example of this
   dilemma.  Each hid his hatred for the other during moments of peace.
   The small group of Indians was purposely separated from the rest of the
   painting to reveal their dignity, swapped horses with the Cheyenne in
   order to rescue Sarah.  They in turn bartered for coffee, beans, etc.
   Sarah is portrayed in severe physical and mental state.  The paradox of
   hatred and love are repeated throughout the painting.
   Fort Wicked - This painting depicts the gallant stand against the
   Cheyenne war parties by Holon Godfrey, his family, and friends.  Holon
   Godfrey, his family, and friends.  Holon, a brave and adventurous man,
   believed he could hold out against all odds except fire.  The painting
   is deliberately painted in a primitive style in order to reveal many
   objects.  It is also a very busy painting in order to help convey
   excitement and panic.  Worry and anger are shown in Holons face;
   weariness in the face of Matilda; and fear in the face of Cecilia (the
   girl in the window).  After three days of battle, the Cheyenne finally
   ceased their attack.
   The Battle of Summit Springs - This painting depicts how one can
   sacrifice his life to save others.  During a storm-threatening
   afternoon, this young lad stampeded this heard of horses into Chief
   Tall Bulls camp in order to warn them of the attacking Pawnee Scouts.
   The young boy was killed, along with many other Cheyenne that day, but
   because of his heroics, many survived.  It is difficult to imagine what
   went through his mind before making his decision to stampede the herd,
   but one thing is clear, It was a split-second decision from one so
   young.  Life is so precious, especially young life.
   Sterling - Queen City of the High Plains - This painting depicts not
   only the City of Sterling today, but reveals some hidden history in its
   development.  The vastness of the high plains and the surprising height
   of some summer cloud formations gently cradles the city lights.  Soon
   daylight will end and the cool evening breezes will usher in another
   quiet night on the plains.
   Riding out the Blizzard
   - The painting depicts the hardships endured by the cattlemen of
   Northeast Colorado.  Even though the cattlemen were subjected to many
   difficulties, the sudden appearance of a blinding blizzard was probably
   the one threat that revealed the hopelessness of facing the forces of
   nature.  For one who has never experienced this phenomenon, the
   exposure is truly unbelievable.  Not only are you subjected to the
   numbness of the cold, but the whiteness and the loss of direction can
   create a state of vertigo.
   Cattleman:  Northeast Colorado - This painting depicts the early cattle
   country of Northeastern Colorado.  The beauty of an August evening is
   created here by revealing the complex skies and a vast pasture land
   panorama.  The majestic Pawnee Buttes are revealed like giant ships
   sailing across the waves of cool violet canyons in the background.  The
   setting sun softly warns the cattlemen of the end of another Northeast
   Colorado day.  However, experience has taught them that these days are
   drawing to a close and the severe bite of the winter wind is just
   around the corner.
   The Massacre at Sand Creek - This painting depicts the anticipation of
   things to come before the attack begins.  The sun is just rising and
   the camp fires are cold.  Shock and frustration are evident.  The
   elderly chief in the foreground is White Antelope, who after realizing
   the futility of stopping this outrage, decides to fold his arms and
   chant, Its a good day to die.  He is killed along with many women and
   children.  Chief Black Kettle tried to raise the American flag and a
   flag of truce, but to no avail.  This day of infamy started off the
   famous Indian wars along the South Platte River from Julesburg to
   Denver.
   Beware the Earthman - This painting depicts the early farmers futile
   attempts to raise a crop against all the odds that were against him
   along the South Platte River.  But, beyond that, it also exposes the
   early confrontation of the Cheyenne Warrior with the peaceful farmer.
   The warriors were informed many years earlier that they need not fear
   the mountain-man, the cattleman, or even the soldier.  That the man
   who  would eventually take their beloved land from them would be the
   Earthman - the Farmer.
   The American Indian - This painting depicts the Indian Societies of
   North America.  No particular tribe is hereby intended, but this is a
   tribute to all those who inhabited these lands before the white man
   invasion.  The Indian believed that he was a part of nature, just as
   were the earth, sky, rock, air and water; and he believed they were all
   brothers.  This painting has many contrasting forces, such as the soft
   blends of the sky and background in comparison to the sharper lines of
   the subject.  For no matter how much the Indian believed in nature, he
   had a difficult struggle to exist in it.
   The Design of the County Seal is based on the wagon wheel which helped
   open the west.  The words Logan County are placed at the hub of the
   wheel suggesting Logan County is an important county in our state.  The
   design is right side up from any angle instead of being viewed from
   just one point (as with a wheel at rest would be) signifying a rolling
   onward progress of our community.  The symbols pictured are elements
   important to our past, present and future.
