http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/little_blue_nrd.asp

   Little Blue NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

[littleblue.gif]      LITTLE BLUE NRD

   Office Information

   Larry Warneking
   District Conservationist
                           172 East 4th Street
                           P.O. Box 307
                           Nelson, NE 68916-0307
                                                Phone: (402) 225-2311
                                                Fax: (402) 225-4343

     Directory for Little Blue NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services

     Little Blue NRD homepage District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   [larry-warneking.jpg]
   Larry G. Warneking
   District Conservationist
   Little Blue NRD
     * Grew up and worked on a combination livestock and cash grain farm
       west of Superior in Nuckolls County
     * 1975 - Graduated from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln (UNL)
       with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Agriculture Economics and
       Animal Science
     * 1976 - Began Career with NRCS (SCS) as a Soil Conservationist at
       the North Platte Field Office (FO) serving parts of Frontier,
       Lincoln, Logan and McPherson Counties
     * 1978 - Transferred to Loup City FO as the District Conservationist
       for Sherman County
     * 1980 - Transferred to Nelson FO as the Liaison District
       Conservationist for the Little Blue NRD serving primarily Nuckolls
       County
     * 1995 - Promoted to the Supervisory District Conservationist for the
       five counties predominantly located in the LBNRD

   The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) provides assistance
   to our customers through natural resource districts. The Little Blue
   Natural Resources District (LBNRD) covers all or parts of 7 counties in
   southcentral Nebraska. NRCS provides assistance generally to a whole
   county through USDA SERVICE CENTER offices located in the county seat.
   The five counties of Adams, Clay, Nuckolls, Thayer and Jefferson, which
   comprise the majority of the LBNRD, are covered by NRCS offices in
   Hastings, Clay Center, Nelson, Hebron and Fairbury. Supervision,
   management and liaison activities are headquartered at the Nelson
   Office.
   In general, three employees staff each field office to assist customers
   with their conservation needs in that county. However, employees
   regularly help farmers throughout the LBNRD without regard to county
   boundaries. The offices also have access to several other professionals
   located throughout the state. Some of the disciplines include
   engineers, soil scientists, biologists and range management
   specialists. Using the team concept, employees go to wherever the
   workload is in the LBNRD without being restricted by county boundaries.
   The Little Blue NRD Team's mission is "To conserve and improve our
   natural resources one field at a time with our partners by leading our
   customers where they want to go".
   Resource Needs and Concerns
   Over 90 per cent of the land in the NRD are used for agricultural
   purposes with approximately 70 per cent being cropped. Much of the land
   being cropped is on highly erodible soils. Therefore, erosion control
   on cropland and flood control have always been high priority resources
   concerns. In the Eighties, declining watertables made water quantity a
   major concern. Water quality has surfaced as the District's main focus
   in the Nineties due to increasing levels of nitrates in the
   groundwater.
   The following is a list of the needs and concerns within the LBNRD
   listed in priority order as determined by the local Board.
    1. Groundwater Quality Protection/Well Head Protection
    2. Groundwater Quantity Protection/Irrigation Water Management
    3. Livestock Waste Management
    4. Reduce Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Damages
    5. Flood Control & Flood Damages Reduction
    6. Protect and Restore Riparian Areas, Buffer Strips, Stream Bank
       Protection
    7. Waste Management and Recycling Efforts
    8. Tree Planting, Windbreak Renovation and Improved Timber Management
    9. Rural Water Development and Management
   10. Public Recreation Development and Maintenance
   11. Grazing Land Improvement and Management
   12. Wildlife Protection and Habitat Improvement

   Of these twelve major areas of emphasis, priorities 1,2,3,4,5,6,8,11 &
   12 can best be addressed by NRCS. Landusers can receive technical
   assistance for planning, survey, design and construction inspection for
   numerous conservation practices. Assistance is also available to assist
   the landowners with applying for various programs to assist with
   defraying part of the cost of installing the conservation practices.
   Several local, state and federal programs are available. The Little
   Blue NRD annually funds approximately $300,000 for conservation cost
   share programs. These funds assist producers with a variety of
   practices including terraces, waterways, dams, grass and tree
   plantings, well abandonment/decommissioning, livestock wells, pipelines
   and fencing, irrigation pipelines, flowmeters, tailwater recovery
   systems and center pivot conversions. The Nebraska Soil and Water
   Conservation Program is annually funded at approximately $180,000 for
   many of the above mentioned practices. The state also funds special
   projects through the Environment l Trust Fund. There are several new
   and existing federal programs that provide assistance for wetland
   creation and restoration, irrigation variable flow return systems,
   riparian buffers and other special or unique practices as well as the
   traditional conservation practices. Some of the primary programs
   include the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), Wetland Reserve Program
   (WRP), Environmental Quality Incentive Program (EQIP), and Wildlife
   Habitat Incentive Program (WHIP). The Coordinator for the Rainwater
   Basin Joint Venture (RWBJV) also assists with unique wetland habitat
   projects by obtaining both funding and technical expertise from
   numerous conservation partners interested in wetland issues. Partners
   include the Nebraska Game & Parks Commission (NGPC), U.S. Fish &
   Wildlife Service (F&WS), Army Corp Of Engineers (COE), Ducks Unlimited,
   and the Nature Conservancy.
   Priorities Addressed by NRCS
   EQIP Priority Areas
    1. Deweese Tribs
       This project area consists of approximately 65,000 acres of
       farmland in the lower portion of Buffalo, Liberty, Oak and Pawnee
       Creek Watersheds which empty into the Little Blue River which flows
       directly through the northern portion of the area. Approximately
       50,000 acres are currently cropped with 30 per cent of those acres
       under irrigation. The remaining area is in native rangeland and
       pasture. The area consists of average size combination livestock
       and cash grain operations. Livestock include small cow/calf herds,
       feedlots, and swine operations. Concerns in this area are related
       to severe soil erosion, overgrazed rangeland, streambank erosion
       and groundwater contamination. NRCS has provided technical
       assistance and cost share through EQIP to assist producers with
       installing a dam, cross fencing, livestock pipelines, irrigation
       pipelines, terraces, waterways, underground outlets and waste
       storage ponds for confined hog operation.
    2. Republican River Alluvial Area
       This project area stretches from western Furnas County to the point
       where the Republican river enters Kansas in eastern Nuckolls
       County. The area is a mix of irrigated cropland; grazing lands;
       dryland cropland and riparian areas. The primary farm operation is
       crop production, irrigated and dryland cropland. There are
       scattered livestock operations throughout the alluvial area. The
       primary resource concern in this area is water quality and
       quantity. The environment impacts will include reduced irrigation
       water use and better nutrient and pesticide management. Irrigation
       development has caused overuse of the water supply in the
       Republican River alluvial area (94,000 acres). This area will need
       to more efficiently utilize and closely monitor use of their water.
       The Republican River Alluvial Area is a priority area at the local,
       state and national level because of the Republican River Compact.
       This compact addresses minimum flows in the River. NRCS in the
       Little Blue NRD is providing assistance to landusers in the
       approximately the last 20 miles of the Project. The main technical
       and cost share assistance has been provided to install irrigation
       flow meters, irrigation pipelines, center pivot conversions,
       irrigation water management and nutrient and pesticide management.

   Primary programs and services
     * SUPERIOTR-HARDY WATER QUALITY SUB-AREA
       This area is a special ground water quality project for Southern
       Nuckolls County. Historical records of municipal water tests, and
       the creation of a rural domestic and irrigation water analysis
       program, have indicated that ground water nitrate levels are on the
       rise. The village of Hardy's water supply had been at or near the
       U.S. Public Health and Environmental Protection Agency's maximum
       safe standard of 10 PPM for a number of years. Non-point pollution,
       or the contamination of a resource over a wide area from an
       unspecified source, threatens much of our water supply. For that
       reason, LB 894 was passed by the Nebraska legislature in 1986 to
       provide the local NRD's the authority to carry out programs
       necessary to stabilize and reduce non-point pollution of ground
       water. It is under this authority that the Little Blue and Lower
       Republican NRDs have developed a comprehensive program to dress
       elevated nitrate levels in the ground water. The Superior-Hardy
       Special Ground Water Protection Area was the first such area
       declared in the state. The main technical and cost share assistance
       has been provided to install irrigation flow meters, irrigation
       pipelines, irrigation land leveling, irrigation tailwater recovery
       systems, center pivot conversions, irrigation water management and
       nutrient and pesticide management The first quick cycle irrigation
       tailwater recovery system built in the Little Blue NRD was
       installed on a field just north of the Superior High School. The
       local chapter of the Future Farmers of America operated the
       irrigation system and has used it as irrigation management
       education project. Due to its unique location it has created much
       interest by local land users and the general public.
     * TRUMBULL BASIN SURFACE WATER PROJECT
       This approximately 4700-acre project in Northeastern Adams County
       involves twenty-one different landowners. It required a very
       complex solution to a problem resulting from attempts to drain
       wetlands in the 1960's. There is inadequate ground water to
       irrigate a corn crop in dry years since most wells in the area only
       pump between 200 and 500 gallons a minute. In wet years a great
       deal of the crops drown out due to long term ponding.
       All of the landowners and agency people from NRCS, Little Blue NRD,
       Upper Big Blue NRD, Nebraska Department of environmental Quality,
       US ARMY COE, US Fish & Wildlife, EPA, and the Bureau of Reclamation
       were brought together by Steven Moran, Rainwater Basin Joint
       Venture Coordinator. To restore the original wetlands in the basin
       is completely out of the question. NRCS developed a water budget of
       the drainage area, including irrigation runoff. It was decided to
       develop the key 80-acre tract into a wetland with varying depths
       from 3 feet to 1 inch. This tract was recently accepted into the
       Wetland Reserve Program (WRP). This 80-acre tract will also serve
       as a storage area to temporarily store runoff and distribute it to
       several landowners' concentration pits in the basin to be used for
       irrigation water during the growing season. In the fall after
       harvest water will be stored on cropland fields which once were
       wetlands. The idea behind this is to provide shallow water habitat
       for the spring migration and still allow the landowners to crop the
       land. The shallow water will be drained from the cropland starting
       at the end of March. This should allow the land to be dry enough to
       plant by planting season. The work plan calls for several pivot
       conversions to low pressure; surge valves and irrigation pipelines,
       variable flow return systems (instead of conventional reuse pits),
       and grassed waterways. Also included are dikes and water control
       facilities to allow the addition and removal of water from the
       seasonal habitat and the restored wetlands. The upper end of the
       drainage area has a slight erosion problem in the main channel and
       a system of waterways and drop structures will be installed to
       eliminate erosion. In addition to WRP and local funds, the
       producers will submit applications for a Nebraska Environmental
       Trust Grant, and other funding through the Rainwater Basin Joint
       Venture to assist with the $250,000 project.
     * MARC WETLAND IDENTIFICATION PROJECT
       This Meat Animal Research Center (MARC) is located on public land
       that the US ARMY built the ammunition plant east of Hastings in
       Clay County. The Agriculture Research Service (ARS) operates MARC.
       In a cooperative venture with the ARS, US Army COE and Rainwater
       Basin Joint Venture (RWBJV), the NRCS is making an inventory of the
       wetlands on the approximately 35,000 acre tract.
       A similar inventory was made on private lands in the area
       approximately ten years ago. The inventory on private lands was
       carried out as a result of the 1985 Farm Bill or the Food Security
       Act (FSA) as it is more commonly known. Public lands were not
       covered by FSA. In an effort by the RWBJV to document the wetland
       acres in the Rainwater Basin, the ARS volunteered to allow an
       inventory of the public lands under their control.
       This was an important inventory since the land is located in
       approximately in the center of the Rainwater Basin. The Basin
       covers all or parts of seventeen counties in central Nebraska. This
       area is in the Central Flyway for many of the migrating waterfowl
       such as ducks, geese, sandhill cranes and even an occasional
       whooping crane.
       The wetland determinations are being made using state of the art
       procedures including GIS and GPS. Using aerial photography,
       eighteen years of USDA Farm Service Agency slides, USFWS National
       Wetland Inventory Maps and the NRCS soil survey, wetlands were
       tentatively identified on aerial photos in the office. The
       determinations were verified in the field and GPS technology was
       used to verify the wetland boundaries. The GPS data was then
       downloaded into the GIS format using ArcView.
       The final product will consist of not only maps with the individual
       wetlands identified, but also be stored on CD-ROM for later use by
       ARS and other partners in the project. The GIS format will include
       the location, size and type of wetlands found on MARC.
       Although this process may have been used in other wetland
       determinations, this is by far the largest project completed using
       this technology in Nebraska.
     * HAYDEN THOMPSON WETLAND
       This project sets on land that the US ARMY built the ammunition
       plant east of Hastings in Clay County. The Army built concrete
       bunker silo's three in a group spaced approximately 300 feet
       between groups. There are six rows of groups on this property that
       stretches approximately six miles in length. To hide the concrete
       from an air raid attack the Army dug borrow pits between the groups
       of buildings and used the dirt to cover the concrete bunkers.
       Hogs are raised in the bunkers in the first four miles of the farm.
       A complex system of several anaerobic lagoons treats the
       wastewater. The treated effluent was stored in the last two miles
       of pits and eventually would evaporate.
       The landowner & manager are both wildlife enthusiasts, and wanted
       to create the best wildlife habitat that they could on the farm.
       Steve Moran invited engineering and conservation planners from the
       NRCS, biologist from US Fish & Wildlife Service, engineering from
       Ducks Unlimited, biologist from Game & Parks Commission, along with
       personnel from the US Army COE, and the Nebraska Department of
       Environmental Quality.
       NRCS surveyed the site and then held a meeting with the landowner,
       the landowners staff of water quality specialists and the Game and
       Parks and USFW biologists. The biologists and landowner determined
       what would best suit the migrating waterfowl and NRCS designed and
       drafted a plan to complete the project. The landowner applied for
       and received an Environmental Trust Fund Grant to fund the project.
       Water quality of the project will be monitored by the USFW. NRCS
       supervised construction and certified the plans by a professional
       engineer. NRCS and NEGPC assisted the landowner in getting all the
       needed permits to construct the project.
       This is a unique project. It both created and restored wetlands
       which utilize not only rainfall runoff, but also treated effluent
       from a confined hog operation. The landowner pumps over a million
       gallons of fresh water a day in the hog operation. They also have
       full control over the water levels of all the lagoons. The treated
       effluent has been applied as irrigation water to cropland on the
       farm. Now it will be applied to the wetland to provide moist soil
       conditions for annual wetland food plants for the migrating
       waterfowl and shore birds.
       This project is located between two big wetlands owned by the US
       Fish & Wildlife. The existing wetlands in the area get over
       populated during migration. When this happens then the geese and
       other birds get cholera. The birds die by the thousands each spring
       in the Rainwater Basin during spring migration due to over
       populating the remaining wetlands in the Basin.
     * LIBERTY COVE RECREATION
       Located two miles west from Lawrence, Nebraska, on Highway 4, two
       miles south and ¼ mile west in Webster County. This combination
       flood control and recreation project was a cooperative effort
       between Nuckolls and Webster Counties and the Little Blue NRD. NRCS
       provided the survey, design and construction inspection of two
       flood control dams.
       The second structure was developed as a recreation area by the
       Little Blue NRD. This site includes 36 acres of water located on
       247 acres of land. Hiking trails, shelters, restrooms, boat ramp,
       boat dock, fishing, swimming, beach, picnicking, grills, camping,
       playground, water well, horse riding trail, arboretum and small
       game hunting. Winter sports include sledding, skating and
       snowmobiling.
       Water quality at the existing creek is considered excellent due to
       the many natural springs. The lake was stocked with bluegill, bass
       and catfish. The site is used frequently by many users in the four
       surrounding counties including many from Hastings, NE, about 30
       miles northeast of the dam.
     * FATHER HUPP WETLAND RESTORATION
       Located three miles west of Bruning, Nebraska. This project was
       completed in the fall of 1994. This wetland restoration project
       broke new ground in partnering between disciplines and agencies.
       The Nebraska Game and Park Commission brought biologist and land
       managers to the table. The USDA Natural Resources Conservation
       Service brought engineering and the ability to work with several
       landowners. When combined into one project, both agencies realized
       it was a lot easier to get the project completed.
       The Nebraska Game and Parks purchased a degraded wetland consisting
       of 160 acres. Since the NEGPC does not employ any surveyor's and
       construction inspectors, they asked the local USDA NRCS staff if
       they could assist with a survey. The NRCS surveyed the tract with
       assistance from NEGPC personnel. NRCS realized the need to restore
       wetlands in the area and this restoration project could be used as
       a show case project and as a learning tool for NRCS and. NRCS
       designed and drafted a set of plans to restore the wetland. It was
       determined by the biologist that water entering the wetland would
       need to be diverted to other area's of the wetland, so some of it
       could be dried out and then saturated to provide migrating
       waterfowl with moist soil plants to feed on. This was accomplished
       by building dikes in the right places and installing water control
       facilities to divert and control water. This allows NEGPC to fully
       control where the water goes and how much water is put there.
       The term bioengineering was born during this project.
       Bioengineering is getting all the needed agency personnel present
       to answer the project owner's questions during one field visit. It
       is a must to have at least a biologist, engineer, program person,
       and a land planner present. This way no one answers a question out
       of the range of his or her disciplines. The landowner gets the
       answers needed to make decisions without having to wait for the
       entire agency's to answer their program questions.
       The success of this project has lead to Game & Parks and NRCS
       partnering to restore 17 other Game & Parks owned wetlands in the
       Rainwater Basin region. While only two have been completed as of
       this date, almost all 17 have been surveyed, and soil probed to
       determine the depth to thew clay layer. Several of these have the
       designs and drafting done and are waiting funding to construct.
     * MCNISH PARK EROSION CONTROL
       This project is located in the City of Fairbury. The City
       contacted, Michael Onnen, Manager of the Little Blue Natural
       Resources District (NRD), about a severe erosion problem, which
       developed in the park. There is approximately 40 acres of urban
       runoff, natural springs, road salt from US Highway 136 and the
       shopping mall parking lot. After two meeting's to discuss several
       options to fix the problem, it was decided to use the most
       aesthetic solutions to restore this historic and scenic park.
       There was 19 feet of drop from the upper end of the park, where
       water is delivered from storm drains to the bottom of the park
       where the runoff and spring water entered another culvert system.
       The length of the park was 450 feet. It was determined with the
       erosiveness of the soils that a 2 % fall on the valley floor of the
       park would remain stable.
       To keep the valley floor as dry as possible, the spring water would
       have to be captured. NRCS designed two grade reduction structures,
       a collection box, along with an underground outlet to deliver the
       spring water to the pond located between the two drop structures.
       The valley floor was totally reshaped, which involved excavating
       and hauling 30 or 40 truck loads of concrete rubble which the City
       had dumped into the gully to try and solve the problem. Then two
       concrete block chutes where installed in the bottom to remove 12
       foot of the slope. The concrete block chutes are a new solution to
       use as grade stabilization in Nebraska. A video on how to install
       them was obtained through the NRCS in Illinois. The existing pond
       was drained and a two-foot thick clay liner was installed to remove
       the chance of any seepage. NRCS plant material center in Manhattan
       Kansas provided the salt tolerant grasses to be sowed in the valley
       bottom. The City installed several hydrants to water the new grass
       and get it established rather fast.
       The City is also restoring the existing waterfalls, which were man
       made out of native sandstone back in the 1930 era. There is a water
       fountain and several picnic areas in the park. The park is now
       returned to the scenic beauty in which it was fifteen years
       previous. The City of Fairbury reports that it is once again a
       favorite lunch and picnic area for the general public and the
       hazards of the erosion problem are no longer present. Several
       weddings are also held in the park during the spring, summer and
       fall.


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
