http://www.usitc.gov/er/nl2001/ER0604Y1.HTM

   June 4, 2001
   News Release 01-081

 ITC LAUNCHES TARIFF AND TRADE DATAWEB AS FULL-TIME, PERMANENT, FREE PUBLIC
                                   SERVICE

   The U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) today announced that it
   will make its interactive tariff and trade data warehouse, the ITC
   DataWeb, available to the public on a permanent full-time basis, free
   of charge.

   The ITC, an independent, nonpartisan, quasi-judicial federal agency,
   developed the interactive tariff and trade data system for its own
   staff when a system maintained by another agency and previously used by
   the ITC was scheduled for termination. The system is currently used in
   all ITC investigative activities and is also relied upon by staff at
   numerous federal government agencies, congressional offices, various
   U.S. trade negotiating groups, and U.S. embassies.

   Following a successful two-year pilot program to test the feasibility
   of public access to the system, the ITC has completed hardware and
   software upgrades to the DataWeb to ensure it can handle public and
   government users' inquiries efficiently and expeditiously.

   The ITC DataWeb (http://dataweb.usitc.gov) is a self-service,
   interactive, Internet-based system that provides access to extensive
   tariff and trade data. The system is designed to enable even novice
   users to find their way -- unassisted -- through the numerous options
   available in working with tariff and trade data. The ITC DataWeb
   responds to user-defined queries rapidly, and it allows both expert and
   non-expert users to create and save customized country and product
   lists for future re-use from anywhere in the world.

   The ITC DataWeb integrates international trade transactions with
   complex tariff and customs treatment. Import and export materials are
   updated monthly. Data are available for years 1989 through 2001 on a
   monthly, quarterly, annual, or year-to-date basis and can be retrieved
   in a number of classification systems, including the Harmonized Tariff
   Schedule (HTS), the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC), the
   Standard International Trade Classification (SITC), or the North
   American Industry Classification System (NAICS). Material is available
   on U.S. trade under special tariff preference programs or by country or
   country group. Pre-defined reports are also available by geographic
   region, partner country, and production sharing provisions (under which
   goods are exported for processing abroad and later returned to the
   United States). Current information on U.S. tariffs, which is
   maintained and published by the ITC as one of its statutory
   responsibilities, can be accessed via the DataWeb, where it can also be
   linked to relevant and current trade data.

   "My colleagues and I are proud to announce the permanent availability
   of this remarkable resource to the public," said Stephen Koplan,
   Chairman of the ITC. "Through the two-year pilot project, we confirmed
   strong public interest in access to the system and identified the
   technical upgrades we'd need to provide it. The upgrades are now
   completed, and we're pleased to launch the system on a permanent
   basis."

   Koplan noted that opening the DataWeb to the public fulfills one of the
   agency's goals under the Government Paperwork Elimination Act, under
   which information collected at taxpayer expense is to be made, to the
   extent possible, directly available to the public rather than through
   government staff. It also responds to a request for public access to
   this data from the International Trade Data System (ITDS) Board, an
   interagency group chartered to re-engineer the collection, processing,
   and dissemination of trade data.

   The ITC makes no recommendations on policy or other matters through the
   ITC DataWeb.

   The ITC DataWeb can be accessed through the ITC Internet site
   (www.usitc.gov) or directly at http://dataweb.usitc.gov. Input from
   users and other interested parties, including written submissions that
   address trade and tariff data availability issues or suggestions, is
   welcome. Written submissions should be addressed to the Office of the
   Secretary, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW,
   Washington, DC 20436. Technical questions may be sent to the DataWeb
   help desk at DataWeb@usitc.gov or to Peg MacKnight
   (pmacknight@usitc.gov), Tariff and Trade Information Manager, or Martin
   Smith (msmith@usitc.gov), Director of the ITC Office of Information
   Services.

                                  -- 30 --
