http://info.ihs.gov/IHSProfile.pdf

   Indian Health Service AN AGENCY PROFILE Health Care Provider & Advocate
   for Indian People The Indian Health Service (IHS), an HHS agency, is
   responsible for providing health services to federally recognized
   American Indian and Alaska Native tribal governments. The provision of
   health services to American Indians and Alaska Natives is based on
   treaties, judicial determinations, and acts of Congress which result in
   a unique government-to-government relationship between tribes and the
   Federal Government. The IHS is the principal federal health care
   provider and advocate for Indian people. Its mission, goal, and
   foundation are: The mission of the Indian Health Service, in
   partnership with American Indians and Alaska Natives, is to raise their
   physical, mental, social, and spiritual health to the highest possible
   level. The goal is to assure that comprehensive, culturally acceptable,
   personal and public health services are available and accessible to
   American Indians and Alaska Natives. The foundation is to uphold the
   Federal Government's obligation to promote healthy American Indian and
   Mission- improve Alaska Natives, communities, and cultures and to honor
   and protect the inherent sovereign rights of tribes. health of Indian
   people The IHS is the primary source of health services for 55% of the
   estimated 2.4 million Indian people. The majority of Indian people
   served by IHS live on or near reservations in some of the most remote
   and poverty stricken areas of the country where other sources of health
   care are less available. For many, the IHS is the only source of care.
   Urban Indian health programs provide limited services to more than
   150,000 Indians living in 34 cities. A Comprehensive Network in 35
   States The IHS is organized as 12 "area offices" which are located
   throughout the United States. Within the 12 regions are 550 health care
   delivery facilities, including 49 hospitals, 214 health centers, and
   280 health stations, satellite clinics, and Alaska village clinics
   operated by the IHS and tribes. The system delivers comprehensive
   personal and public health services including over 80,000 hospital
   admissions and almost 7 million ambulatory medical care visits per
   year. In addition, dental services, nutrition, community health,
   sanitation facilities (water supply and waste disposal), injury
   prevention, and institutional environmental services are provided. IHS
   is organized as 12 Areas operating over 500 facilities located in 35
   States The IHS budget in FY 2001 is $2.6 billion. Approximately 82% is
   for personal health care services to individuals and 18% is for
   facility construction, sanitation, and public health activities in
   Indian communities. The IHS is authorized to recover costs of services
   it provides to Indians with private insurance, Medicare, or Medicaid
   coverage. Supplemental collections for FY 2001 are expected to exceed
   $450 million. Government-to-Government Relations with Sovereign Nations
   The IHS was transferred from the Department of the Interior/Bureau of
   Indian Affairs to the HHS in 1955. This transfer started the HHS
   relationship with tribal nations that is based on tribal sovereignty
   and a government-to-government relationship. Sovereignty means that
   tribes can govern their own territory and internal affairs. Only
   Congress can override an Indian nation's authority. The
   Government-to-government relationship is a Federal policy about how the
   U.S. interacts with tribes. Because of this relationship, the U.S. must
   consult with tribes about how Federal actions may affect tribes. Both
   the HHS and the IHS have consultation policies for tribal consultation.
   The HHS was the first Federal Department to implement a tribal
   consultation policy. Sovereignty gives tribes a self-governing status.
   Self-determination and self-governance have important meaning to tribes
   and effect how their health services are delivered. Public Law 93-638,
   the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended,
   provides that tribes can redesign their health programs if they choose
   to compact and/or contract under provisions of the Act. This authority
   provides that IHS will transfer its resources to tribes so that they
   can administer Tribes often redesign health Almost one half of IHS
   their own health programs if they decide to do programs incorporating
   tradi- programs and budget is now so. Almost 44 percent of the Agency's
   $2.6 tional cultural values. operated by tribal billion budget is
   transferred to tribes through tribal shares. The Agency retains the
   remaining tribal shares and delivers governments. health services
   directly to the tribes that do not choose to administer their own
   programs. In addition to tribal shares to operate programs that were
   formally the responsibility of the Federal Government, tribes also
   receive contract support costs (CSC). P.L. 93-638 authorizes Federal
   agencies to provide funds for CSC to tribes to pay for costs not
   included in the program amount. CSC appropriations were sufficient to
   pay 94% of CSC in FY 2000. In FY 2001, the Congress increased CSC
   appropriations to $248 million. The amount of any shortfall in FY 2001
   is unknown at this time. However, tribes contend that they should
   receive 100% of their CSC need and any shortfall continues to be a
   topic of concern to tribes and the IHS. Changing Disease Patterns and
   Troubling Disparities The health status of Indian people has improved
   steadily since 1955. The improvement was mainly due to increased access
   to health services and public health measures which decreased morbidity
   and mortality from infectious disease. Unfortunately, health gains
   among Indians have slowed or ceased altogether in recent years as
   disease patterns have changed. Injuries, chronic diseases, and
   behavioral related diseases have emerged as new challenges. The new
   diseases patterns are strongly associated with adverse consequences
   from poverty and cultural dislocation. Inadequate education, high rates
   of unemployment, discrimination, and cultural differences all
   contribute to unhealthy lifestyles and disparities in access to health
   care. Illness and death rate disparities for American Indians and
   Alaska Natives have emerged for alcoholism, diabetes, tuberculosis,
   heart disease, unintentional injury, homicide, suicide, pneumonia, and
   influenza. In view of the troubling health disparities, the national
   goal to eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in health is especially
   important to Indian people. IHS is assisting tribes to develop local
   approaches to their health issues. Addressing today's health problems
   cannot be expected to yield quick results. The most serious health
   problems are long-term, intractable issues that will be greatly
   affected by social-economic conditions in Indian communities and the
   limited resources available to the Indian health system. Page 2 Indian
   Health Service The Indian health care system continues to face enormous
   challenges in the decade ahead. Despite the collaborative relationships
   and partnerships that have been established, American Indians have long
   experienced current resources will not meet the needs of a population
   disproportionate health problems compared to that is increasing by 2%
   each year and facing emerging other Americans. The disparity also
   applies health problems. Prevention and treatment of chronic to health
   care resources. A recent study found health problems requires long-term
   interventions that may that IHS funding fell 40% short of the cost to
   not show measurable results for several years. Current funding of IHS
   is approximately $2.6 billion. For Indian assure a mainstream health
   plan for 1.4 people receiving Indian million users. The resource gap
   severely Diabetes alone could health system services restricts health
   care services and is one root this translates to health cause of the
   failure to eliminate unacceptable overwhelm the system care funding at
   rates of death and disease among Indians. as some Indian approximately
   60% of communities struggle the level enjoyed by with 40-50% people in
   mainstream prevalence rates health plans. Policymakers and Indian
   people are concerned about the health care funding deficiencies for
   Indian people. Relationships with the Congress The IHS received its
   authority as the primary Federal provider of and advocate for the
   health of Indian people from the Indian Health Care Improvement Act
   (P.L. 94-437). This law is considered to be the cornerstone of Indian
   health care because it authorizes specific programs and activities to
   promote the health status of Indian people to the highest level
   possible. This authority builds upon the Snyder Act of 1921, which is
   the basic and first legislative authority for Congress to appropriate
   funds specifically for health care provided by the IHS. One unique
   characteristic is the Agency's relationships with its congressional
   committees of jurisdiction. The IHS budget is appropriated through the
   Appropriations Committee for Interior and Related Agencies; not by
   committees of jurisdiction for HHS. The Committee on Indian Affairs is
   a key committee in the Senate. In the House, the Committee on
   Resources, the Committee on Commerce, and the Committee on Health and
   Environment have jurisdiction on various Indian health matters. The
   House Diabetes Caucus and the House Native American Caucus are
   Reorganization and Accountability The IHS employs more than 14,500
   personnel of which 87% provide services at the local level. The Agency
   continues to decentralize control and expand opportunities for
   consultation and collaboration with local stakeholders in setting
   priorities and significant policies. In a major redesign, IHS
   administrative support systems were reorganized using designs from a
   stakeholder team of Indian health leaders. As a result of the
   reorganization, the administrative workforce at IHS Headquarters and
   Area Offices has been reduced by more than 50%. Even though the
   administrative workforce was reduced, efforts were made to protect
   critical oversight positions to insure and improve HQ Workforce
   Decreased by 537 FTE accountability. These efforts have allowed the
   Agency to 1,000 implement new technologies and demonstrate a continued
   750 937 improvement in financial systems. Presently, IHS is in 781
   substantial compliance with applicable Federal accounting 500 681 637
   553 standards and is increasing capacity in procurement, 250 437 400
   manpower administration, and inventory management. These administrative
   controls provide assurance that assets - are protected, transactions
   are properly executed and 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 recorded,
   and policies are followed. Page 3 Indian Health Service Relationships
   with Tribal Stakeholders The IHS' relationship with its stakeholders is
   unique. As dependent, domestic nations, tribes entered into treaties
   with the Sovereignty and the right to self- United States. Current U.S.
   service obligations to Indian nations determination, tribal leaders
   say, are traced to the treaties signed between tribal governments and
   the are the most important legal United States. These binding
   agreements between governments were usually made to gain rights to
   Indian lands in exchange for, principles and rights that tribal among
   other things, services and self-governing rights to tribes. It is on
   this nations possess. foundation that the IHS conducts relationships
   with 557 tribal governments. Members of more than 557 federally
   recognized American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and their
   descendants are eligible for services provided by the IHS. The services
   are in addition to programs and services Indian people are entitled to
   as U.S. citizens. Unlike any other population group in the United
   States, American Indian and Alaska Natives also have treaty rights,
   they are not "just another minority group" as many assume them to be.
   In addition to direct relationships with elected leaders of tribal
   governments, several national tribal organizations offer testimony on
   Consultation Model Indian health issues to the Congress and provide
   direct input to HHS and IHS policy making. Joint National Steering
   Committee * National Congress of American Indians Tribes & IHS Policy *
   National Indian Health Board * Tribal Self-Governance Advisory
   Committee * Tribal Leaders Diabetes Committee * Urban Indian Health
   Board Goals & Designs & * National Indian Council on Aging Guidance
   Proposals IHS and tribal leaders have developed a consultation model
   that includes from the very beginning tribal stakeholders in policy
   matters Joint Technical that might affect Indian health. The
   consultation model does not Workgroups replace direct relationships
   with tribal governments, but does provide a vehicle for articulating
   the aggregate views provided from Indian country. Sanitation Facilities
   and Health Care Facilities Another unique characteristic is IHS'
   responsibility to provide water supply and waste disposal-forms of
   municipal infrastructure that are virtually non-existent in remote
   areas of Indian country. H I S has supplied clean water and waste
   disposal to more than 230,000 (92%) Indian homes. It is a remarkable
   disease prevention success story that the death rate from
   gastrointestinal disease among Indians has declined by 91% as a result
   of installing basic sanitation facilities and improved access to
   primary health care. However, over 20,000 (7.5%) Indian homes still
   lack safe water in the home. Improving access has also meant
   constructing health care facilities on remote reservations. Many Indian
   communities are located in isolated areas where inhospitable climate,
   impassable roads, and populations spread over many miles create major
   challenges. Often, IHS is the only source of health care. While some
   Indian communities have modern IHS hospitals and ambulatory facilities,
   the average age of IHS facilities is 32 years, with some older than 60
   years. Over one-third need replacement to increase clinic space and
   many need substantial modernization. It is difficult to properly
   support current medical practices in older facilities that were built
   before the modern emphasis on ambulatory care. Community Water Supply
   Project Page 4 Indian Health Service Health Issues from Tribal Leaders
   Tribal leaders consistently express concern about the following Indian
   health issues: Health and Funding Disparities - Disproportionately high
   mortality rates among Indians and a large gap in health care resources
   are unacceptable to tribal leaders -- especially in view of the
   national goal to eliminate racial disparities and the unique
   obligations to the first Americans. Tribal leaders cite diabetes,
   unintentional injuries, and alcoholism and substance abuse as rising to
   crisis proportions in Indian communities. They say Indian health
   resources are completely inadequate to deal with the enormous needs-a
   claim consistent with a recent actuarial study that found IHS funding
   at 60% compared to mainstream health plans such as the Federal
   Employees Health Benefit Plan. Contract Health Services Funding -
   Rising health care costs and steadily mounting patient needs have
   resulted in severe funding shortages to pay for critical services not
   available within the Indian health system. Recurring shortages of CHS
   funds have resulted in referrals for only the most urgent and emergent
   cases. Needed services are denied or delayed for thousands of patients
   due to lack of funding. Resource Equity (Indian Health Care Improvement
   Fund) - Tribal leaders cite funding variations within the Indian health
   system as making the resource gap even worse for many Indian
   communities. More than one-half the IHS system has less than 60% of
   funding required for a mainstream health plan. Tribal leaders are
   troubled by both the funding gap with other Americans and the resource
   inequities within the Indian health system. Tribal views on a resource
   allocation formula to reduce resource inequities remains unsettled.
   Tribes will continue to seek substantial budget increases to close the
   funding gap and address resource inequity. Contract Support Costs
   Funding - Most tribes take the position that existing law requires the
   Federal Government to pay 100% of tribal contract support costs (CSC)
   for direct and indirect costs of operating the health program under
   contract or compact. However, CSC appropriations are only 94% of
   estimated costs. Eligibility Issues and Limitations - Because of
   limited funding, some tribes have sought to limit provision of health
   care services only to enrolled members of their tribe. Tribes emphasize
   that this is a sovereignty issue as they have the right to choose who
   they serve. It is also a funding issue because IHS budget allowances
   within the Indian health system are not tied to membership in specific
   tribes. Long standing regulations require IHS funded health care
   programs to serve any eligible Indian for which care is medically
   necessary without regard to specific tribal membership. Reauthorization
   of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) - The current
   authority of the IHCIA expired on September 30th, 2000. The IHS
   consulted with Indian health leaders on what amendments and additional
   authorities were needed. This consultation effort resulted in a
   legislative draft. The House Committee on Resources and the Senate
   Committee on Indian Affairs both introduced legislation based on the
   draft. Both bills contain provisions that would establish a
   congressional commission to study the feasibility of creating an
   entitlement for health care to Indian people. Crosscutting Issues
   Involving HHS - There are several Department-wide cross-cutting issues
   that need attention. * Consultation by all HHS agencies with tribes *
   Focus on eliminating health disparities for Indians by all HHS agencies
   W W W. I H S . G O V * Strengthen partnerships among tribes, IHS, and
   other HHS agencies * Access to and improvement of health data systems
   for Indian people * Quality of work life for Federal employees Page 5
   Indian Health Service Organizational Chart DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH HUMAN
   SERVICES INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE DIRECTOR Office of Tribal Public
   Self-Governance Affairs DEPUTY DIRECTOR Office of Tribal Legislative
   Programs Affairs Office of Urban EEO and Civil Programs Rights Staff
   Headquarters Operations Regional Operations Office of Office of
   Aberdeen Area Office Management Public Alaska Area Office Support
   Health Albuquerque Area Office Bemidji Area Office Billings Area Office
   California Area Office Nashville Area Office Navajo Area Office
   Oklahoma Area Office Phoenix Area Office Portland Area Office Tucson
   Area Office
