http://www.phila.gov/news/partnership/partnership.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    City of Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia at Your Service Home Page Philadelphia
   Residents Page Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Visitors Page

[clearpixel.gif]

                                     Copyright© City of Philadelphia 2001  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   For Immediate Release: December 21, 2001

   Mayor Street and Governor Schweiker Announce Landmark Agreement to
   Reform the School District of Philadelphia

   PHILADELPHIA, PA Mayor John F. Street today announced an unprecedented
   partnership agreement with Governor Mark Schweiker to ensure a
   long-term solution to the fiscal and educational challenges faced by
   Philadelphia's public schools for more than a decade.

   At a joint press conference with the Governor, the Mayor said, "This is
   a good day for the City of Philadelphia. We have always believed that
   Philadelphia will never be a world class city with a second class
   education system in place improving the quality of education for our
   children, for the families of those children, and for the employers who
   look to hire those children in the future, is one of our most important
   priorities. The kind of partnership we announced today with the
   Governor and the Commonwealth holds great, great promise for our
   children and our School District."

   The Governor said, "Today is the end of a long negotiation, and the
   beginning of a dynamic new partnership. When I first unveiled my
   proposal to bring dramatic change to Philadelphia's schools, I said the
   only shame is in not trying. Today, as I stand here with Mayor Street,
   I'm thrilled that we're beginning to try."

   Pursuant to Act 46 and consistent with the Memorandum of Understanding
   entered into by the Governor and Mayor Street, the Commonwealth will
   turn over operations of the School District of Philadelphia to the
   newly formed School Reform Commission at 12:01 a.m. Saturday Dec. 22,
   2001.

   The new commission replaces the local, nine-member Board of Education,
   appointed by Mayor Street in March 2000. The new, five-person
   commission will include three appointees by the Governor and two by
   Mayor Street, to oversee the District.

   Appointed as interim Chairman of the Commission for the next 30 days is
   James E. Nevels, a local financial and investment expert who has served
   on the 6,800-student Chester-Upland School District's board of control
   for the past three and a half years. Nevels attended today's press
   conference.

   Mayor Street said, "We're delighted the Governor has selected a person
   of Jim Nevels' stature, who is experienced in public education, to be
   the leader we can both work with to improve the quality of education
   for our children."

   Today's agreement included a commitment from both the City and the
   Commonwealth for additional funds to address longstanding financial
   issues.  "We are delighted to have a commitment from the Commonwealth
   of Pennsylvania to send desperately needed new resources to our
   schools, and the City has committed to work in cooperation with the
   Commonwealth to make $45 million in new, local money available to the
   School District.  However, we want to make it clear, we have no
   intention of increasing the tax burden on the citizens of
   Philadelphia," the Mayor stressed.

   Today's partnership agreement includes the following elements:
     * The School Reform Commission will determine the scope, the terms
       and the cost of any contract with Edison Schools Inc., the
       for-profit New York based company which operates 136 schools in 50
       different localities.
     * The Commission will select any private company providers of
       education services, including but not limited to Edison, in an
       open, fair and merit-based process.

   The Mayor sent a special message to parents and guardians of the
   District's more than 200,000 students, "We expect more out of the
   parents and guardians who are responsible for getting our children to
   school. We're looking for a higher degree of participation and
   enthusiasm and just like the new commitment made by the City and the
   Commonwealth, there must be a new commitment from parents and guardians
   to get their children to school everyday and to become more involved in
   the activities of their children's schools," the Mayor said.

   The Mayor called on the business community, communities of faith, civic
   associations and institutions of higher education to step up their
   involvement in the city's 264 public schools.  "There's a lot of work
   to be done, and we need to have more complete partnerships with the
   people of this city," Mayor Street said.

   The Mayor also reiterated his commitment to Philadelphia's public
   school students, "We want to assure the students that we have only your
   best interests at heart. This is a good day for the children of our
   system and their families," the Mayor added.

   CONTACTS:

   Luz Cárdenas
   Office: (215) 686-0334
   Cell: (215) 906-9692

   Alexis Moore - School District of Philadelphia
   Office: (215) 299-7850
