http://www.fmcs.gov/pubinfo/privacy.htm

                              Privacy Statement

        Home Up Whats New at FMCS FMCS Case Studies Privacy Statement

                                [redline.gif]



   This page explains how the FMCS will handle information we learn about
   you from your visit to our website. The information we receive depends
   upon what you do when visiting our site.

   If you visit our site to read or download information:

   [bluedot.gif] We collect and store only the following information about
   you: the name of the domain from which you access the Internet (for
   example, aol.com, if you are connecting from an America Online account,
   or iowa.edu if you are connecting from the University of Iowa's
   domain); the date and time you access our site, the Internet address of
   the website from which you linked directly to our site; and what
   information you view while you visit our web site.
   [bluedot.gif] We use the information we collect to measure the number
   of visitors to the different sections of our site, find out what
   information is the most viewed, and to help us make our web site more
   useful to visitors.

   If you identify yourself by sending us a comment using our contact page
   or an E-mail:

   [bluedot.gif] You also may decide to send us personally-identifying
   information, for example, in an electronic mail message asking a
   question or providing us with a comment or suggestion. We use
   personally-identifying information to respond to your comment or
   suggestion, and to count the number of people sending us comments. In
   certain instances, your comment or suggestion may be forwarded to other
   U.S. government agencies or departments if they are in the best
   position to respond to your message.

                          We want to be very clear:

   We will not obtain personally-identifying information about you when
   you visit our site, unless you choose to provide such information to
   us.


   Please visit the Freedom of Information Act reading room at
   www.fmcs.gov/foia/foiareadrm.htm .  Send all FOIA requests to
   foia@fmcs.gov. For information about FOIA, please go here.  Read FMCS's
   Privacy Statement which explains what information you may be supplying
   the Agency by browsing this web site and how that information will be
   used.  Send mail to: webmaster@fmcs.gov Please restrict comments to
   technical issues. Comments relating to policy, content or style will
   not be acted on by the Webmaster.
   Copyright © 1998 Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
   Last modified: October 31, 2001
