http://www.governor.texas.gov/proclamations/Proc01252002_election.htm

   News and Information


   Press Releases
   Speeches
   Veto Proclamations
   Recent Appointments
   Official Photos
   Contact Information
   The Office
   Return to Home
   Back to Proclamations Mainpage

                                Proclamation

                                   by the

                       Governor of the State of Texas

   TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME:

   WHEREAS, a vacancy now exists in the Texas Senate in the membership of
   District 22, which consists of Bosque, Comanche, part of Denton,
   Eastland, Erath, Hamilton, Hill, Hood, Jack, part of Johnson, part of
   McLennan, Palo Pinto, part of Parker, Somervell, part of Tarrant, and
   Wise Counties; and

   WHEREAS, Article III, Section 13 of the Texas Constitution requires the
   Governor to issue a writ of election ordering a special election upon
   such a vacancy; and

   WHEREAS, Tex. Elec. Code Ann. § 203.004 requires that, absent a finding
   of an emergency, the special election be held on the first uniform
   election date occurring on or after the 36th day after the date the
   election is ordered; and

   WHEREAS, May 4, 2002 is the next such available uniform election date
   occurring after the date the election is ordered; and

   WHEREAS, Tex. Elec. Code Ann. § 3.003 requires the election to be
   ordered by proclamation of the Governor;

   NOW, THEREFORE, I, RICK PERRY, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS, under the authority
   vested in me by the Constitution and Laws of the State of Texas, do
   hereby order a special election to be held in District 22 on Saturday,
   the 4th day of May, 2002, for the purpose of electing a State Senator
   for District 22 to serve out the unexpired term of the Honorable David
   Sibley.

   Candidates who wish to have their names placed on the special election
   ballot must file their applications with the Secretary of State no
   later than 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, the 3rd day of April, 2002, in
   accordance with Tex. Elec. Code Ann. § 201.054(a).

   Early voting by personal appearance shall begin on Wednesday, April 17,
   2002 and shall end on April 30, 2002 in accordance with Tex. Elec. Code
   Ann. § 85.001(a).

   A copy of this order will be mailed immediately to each County Judge in
   the district, and all appropriate writs will be issued and all proper
   proceedings will be followed to the end that said election may be held
   to fill the vacancy in District 22 and its result proclaimed in
   accordance with law.

     IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto signed my name and have
     officially caused the Seal of State to be affixed at my Office in
     the City of Austin, Texas, this the 22nd of January, 2002.

     RICK PERRY(signature)
     Governor of Texas

   ATTESTED BY:

   GWYN SHEA(signature)
   Secretary of State



    Get Acrobat bar State of Texas bar Texas On Line bar Access Adobe bar
                             Privacy Policy bar

   Best viewed with Internet Explorer or Netscape 4.+ or above. ©Office of
    the Governor [spacer.png] The images on the web site are copyrighted
                         and may not be downloaded.
