http://www-ppd.fnal.gov/EPPOffice-w/trac.html

   [fermi_logo_blue.gif]



               TEACHER RESEARCH ASSOCIATES PROGRAM AT FERMILAB


   [ngc5746.gif]

   Teacher Research Associates (TRAC) program appointments are available
   this summer at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Batavia,
   Illinois. Appointments are for a duration of 8-10 weeks with a stipend
   of $600 per week.

                              Program Description

   The goals of the TRAC program are to provide outstanding science,
   mathematics, computer science and technology teachers with professional
   scientific and engineering experiences through summer research
   opportunities. The increased awareness and understanding of
   cutting-edge science and technology obtained by the teacher is intended
   to be transferred back to the classroom.

   [particle_table.jpg] Fermilab operates the highest energy particle
   accelerator in the world as a tool for pursuing ``high energy physics''
   or ``elementary particle physics'' research. The goal of this research
   is to explore the basic structure of matter and to acquire an
   understanding of the laws of nature at the most fundamental level.
   Basic research of this type in the past has revealed the structure of
   the atom, and then the nucleus of the atom as well as the fundamental
   forces and interactions which govern their behavior. Present-day
   research penetrates still deeper into this structure to study the basic
   constituents of which all matter is comprised (quarks and leptons).
   Current research at the lab seeks to understand the origin of mass, to
   measure the paramaters associated with neutrino oscillations, to
   understand subtle differences between matter and antimatter and to
   search for deviations from the current Standard Model of particle
   interactions. Recently, Fermilab was the site of the discovery of the
   previously elusive ``top'' quark, the last of the six quarks which are
   believed to exist.


                                  Eligibility

   The program is open to 7th through 12th grade teachers employed full
   time in public, private or parochial schools with primary teaching
   assignments in science, math, computer science or technology education.
   Teachers must be assigned a full time teaching load during the academic
   year prior to the appointment and expect to do the same during the
   following year.

                                 Qualifications

   Selection is based on the applicant's educational and professional
   qualifications, commitment to teaching, references, compatibility of
   scientific interests with resources available at Fermilab, and the
   expected benefits of the research opportunity to the applicant, the
   applicant's home institution and Fermilab. Additionally, preference
   shall be given to applicants from schools and districts which emphasize
   and support the development of this research experience into programs
   which may be transferred back into the classroom.

                                    Duration

   The TRAC appointment is for 8-10 weeks during the summer.
   [evt_display1.gif]

                                    Stipend

   The stipend is $600 per week. There is no support for travel or
   housing.

                                  Application

   Completed application packages must be returned by March 15, 2002.
     * Application in postscript format
     * Application in pdf format
    Contact
       Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact:
       Ron Ray
       (630)840-8090
       rray@fnal.gov
