http://www.dot.gov/business.html


                   U.S. Department of Transportation Logo
   ""
   U.S. Department of Transportation 400 Seventh St, S.W. Washington D.C.
   20590
                                    "" ""

                                                      Search __________ Go

   FAQs Contact Us Privacy and Disclaimer
   ""
   "" "" "" ""
   ""
   Dot News
   Doing Business With DOT
   Safety
   Regulations
   Jobs and Education
   About DOT
   FOIA
   Site Map
   DOT Access (picture of Wheelchair to right of text)
   FirstGov.gov

                           Doing Business with DOT

   Business Opportunities and Vendor Information
   DOT Business-On-Line Transactions
   Policies and Services

                Business Opportunities and Vendor Information

   The DOT Senior Procurement Executive has created this site with
   consolidated links to help you find the information you need to keep
   you informed about business opportunities at DOT.

                      DOT Business-On-Line Transactions

   DOT is committed to transforming the way we do business by utilizing
   the power of the internet to allow citizens to transact business
   on-line 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This on-line transaction
   capability, what is commonly referred to as E-Government, will enable
   you to perform such tasks as making payments and accessing DOT
   databases where you can find the information you need when you need it.
   Please check this section regularly as we expand the services we offer
   on-line.
     * DIY (Do It Yourself)—Links to sites where customers can request
       products and services from DOT and use credit cards to execute
       transactions.
     * FedBizOps—Your One Stop Gateway to Federal Procurement
       Opportunities.
     * The Federal Commons—An effort to provide a common face of the
       Government to the Grantee Organization Community for the purposes
       of grants administration.
                              Policies and Services
     * DOT Acquisitions and Grants—This site is a portal to all things
       related to acquisitions, grants, and policy within and outside the
       DOT. Provides links to all the Procurement homepages and contacts
       in DOT as well as links to the Commerce Business Daily and various
       procurement policy documents.
     * Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business
       Utilization-(OSDBU)—Learn how the OSDBU provides a wide range of
       assistance for the small business community through advocacy,
       outreach, financial assistance, and organizational excellence.
     * Transportation and Community and System Preservation Pilot
       Program—This site is a comprehensive initiative of research and
       grants to investigate the relationships between transportation and
       community and system preservation and private sector-based
       initiatives.
     * ITOP: Finding IT Solutions For You!—ITOP, Information Technology
       Omnibus Procurement, is THE solution to obtaining IT services and
       support, ITOP provides flexibility, technical and/or contracting
       resources necessary to help meet your program requirements.
     * DOT Transportation Administrative Service Center—TASC provides a
       variety of services, products and training courses for Federal and
       State governments.
     * RSPA Volpe National Transportation Systems Center—Volpe is
       America's transportation systems center, an innovative federal
       fee-for-service organization with the U.S. Department of
       Transportation. Air traffic management, highway and rail safety,
       strategic planning and economic analysis, environment assessment,
       transportation logistics, and security are only some examples of
       our work.
