http://www.crh.noaa.gov/dtx/

 office1.gif (79007 bytes)


          WELCOME TO THE DETROIT/PONTIAC FORECAST OFFICE'S HOMEPAGE




   Home
   Hazardous Weather
   red arrow Watches / Warnings / Advisories
   red arrow Severe Weather Data
   red arrow Threat Assessment
   red arrow Submit a Spotter Report
   Local Weather
   red arrow Forecasts
   red arrow [new.gif] IFPS
   red arrow Current Conditions
   red arrow Radar
   red arrow Satellite
   red arrow Climatology
   red arrow Detroit/Pontiac Radar
   River / Hydrology
   red arrow AHPS
   red arrow Watches and Warnings
   Special Programs
   red arrow Aviation
   red arrow Marine
   red arrow Fire Weather
   red arrow Cooperative Program
   Outreach / Education
   red arrow StormReady
   red arrow NOAA Weather Radio
   red arrow EMWIN
   red arrow Skywarn
   red arrow Education and Safety
   red arrow Computer Model Guidance
   Miscellaneous
   red arrow County Warning Area
   red arrow Weather Now
   red arrow Miscellaneous Maps and Summaries
   red arrow Other Weather Links
   red arrow NWS Offices on the Web
   red arrow Our Office
   red arrow Weather Glossary
   red arrow Weather Stories
   red arrow News and Photo Archive


                                 What We Do

   The Detroit/Pontiac Forecast Office is located in White Lake Michigan,
   about 10 miles northwest of Pontiac.   We issue public forecasts and
   long-fuse warnings (winter storm watches and warnings, flash flood
   watches, etc.) for the entire state of Michigan. We also issue
   short-fuse warnings (tornado, severe thunderstorm, flash flood
   warnings, etc.), aviation forecasts, short-term forecasts, and
   hydrological forecasts and warnings for 17 counties in southeast lower
   Michigan. Our marine responsibility includes routine forecasts and
   warnings for lakes Huron and St. Clair, as well as nearshore forecasts
   (within 5 miles of the shore) and special marine warnings and
   statements for the lakeshore that is adjacent to our county warning
   area.

                 ADDITIONAL WAYS TO GET WEATHER INFORMATION

   In addition to obtaining weather information from our homepage, our
   latest forecasts and warnings as well as climatological information are
   available 24 hours a day on NOAA Weather Radio. We broadcast on station
   KIH-29 on a frequency of 162.475 mhz from Clio, Michigan, and station
   KEC-63 on a frequency of 162.550 mhz from Southfield, Michigan. Our
   broadcast reaches a radius of approximately 40 miles from the
   transmitter sites. Our forecasts and warnings are also made available
   to the media via AP, UPI, and the NOAA Weather Wire, and can also be
   seen on The Weather Channel.

                       Top of Page | Back to Home Page


   Send suggestions and/or comments to dtxwebmaster
