http://www.dfg.ca.gov/licensing/expstamps/expstamps.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          DFG Home Page
                          LRB Home Page
                          Big Game Hunting
                          Commercial Fish Business
                          Commercial Fishing
                          Hunting
                          Lifetime License
                          Special Permits
                          Sport Fishing
                          Upland Game Birds
                          Waterfowl
                               [dfglogo1.gif]



   Department of Fish & Game

                         License and Revenue Branch

                     3211 S Street, Sacramento, CA 95816

                               (916) 227-2245



                                                        __________ search
                                                           (*)  My CA


   Expired Collector's Stamps

   The Department of Fish and Game announces its final sale of expired
   collectors stamps.

   The Department of Fish and Game (DFG) is holding a final sale of
   expired duck and upland game bird stamps now through June 30, 2002. All
   remaining expired inventory will be destroyed after this date. In
   future license years, duck stamps and upland game bird stamps will be
   offered for sale only until the June 30 expiration date. Additionally,
   the DFG is offering for final sale, the remaining supply of native
   species first day of issue envelopes.

   The DFG has over $2 million worth of these collector items in
   inventory, dating from 1981 through 2001. This is an opportunity for
   private stamp collectors and stamp collecting businesses to purchase
   these items at their face value while they are still available. This
   change will benefit collectors as they will no longer have to compete
   with DFG in selling these items and the limited availability will
   inherently increase their value.

   Duck and upland game bird stamps have beautiful illustrations of a
   variety of species by renown artists. These items make wonderful gifts
   for holidays, birthdays, graduations, retirements or any occasion.
   Collecting wildlife conservation stamps is a popular pastime that many
   wildlife enthusiasts enjoy. Revenue from the sale of duck and upland
   game bird stamps is used to manage and protect Californias waterfowl,
   upland game birds and their habitats.

   To view a listing of collector stamp inventory, click on the link at
   the bottom of this page. To purchase expired collectors stamps, you may
   print the order form and fax it to DFG s License and Revenue Branch at
   (916) 227-2261, or mail it to the Department of Fish and Game, License
   and Revenue Branch, 3211 S Street, Sacramento, CA 95816. All orders
   must be received by the DFGs License and Revenue Branch no later than
   5:00 pm on June 30, 2002. Orders will be processed as received while
   supplies last.
     * Collector Stamp Order Form
     * Stamp Inventory List

                             Back to Top of Page
                     Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
