http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/data.html


                        Home, Feedback, Search Links
                        Main Sections Navigation Bar
                      Where you are:   Data Services  :
           Earth Observering System Project Science Office Banner

   Data Services
   These are links to EOS data services' resources and help. We also have
   links to other data product resources.

   EOS Data and Information System - EOSDIS
   The Earth Observing System (EOS) Data and Information System (EOSDIS)
   is a comprehensive data and information system developed by NASA under
   the Earth Science Enterprise.

   EOSDIS Data Gateway (Version 3 IMS)
   The EOS Data Gateway provides a central search and order tool for
   accessing a wide variety of global Earth science data and information
   held at 8 different EOSDIS data centers and a growing number of
   international data providers.

   EOS Data Information
   This page summarizes top level information on EOS data products,
   location, access, and expected dates of availability for the general
   EOS community. It is also provides general information about platforms,
   payloads, and Principal Investigators. Users will find links pointing
   to the Distributed Active Archive Center (DAAC) or to the EOS Data
   Gateway (EDG) system, which can be used for ordering a particular EOS
   data product.

   Distributed Active Archive Centers (DAACs)
   The DAACs process, archive, and/or distribute EOS and other NASA Earth
   Science data, and provide full support to users of these data. Each
   data center holds and provides data pertaining to a particular Earth
   science discipline.

   Global Change Master Directory
   NASA's Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) is a comprehensive source
   of satellite and in situ Earth science data, with broad coverage of the
   atmosphere, hydrosphere, oceans, solid Earth, and biosphere.

   U.S. Global Change Data and Information System (GCDIS)
   The U.S. Global Change Data and Information System (GCDIS) is a great
   source of data sets from U.S. government agencies that produce global
   change data sets. It is an interagency effort to put everything in one
   place. It also includes news and educational resources related to
   global change.

   NASA/NOAA Pathfinder Program
   The joint NASA/NOAA Pathfinder program focuses on processing existing
   satellite-based, long time-series data sets with stable calibration and
   community consensus algorithms to better assist the research community
   in studying global change.

   Earth Science Information Partners
   The Federation of Earth Science Information Partners has a vast
   collection of data from NASA and other US Government Agency satellite
   missions, International satellite missions, and from ground based
   instruments located worldwide. There are currently over 900 data sets
   available to scientists, educators, companies, and the general public.
   Learn more about these data sets - and place orders - by using the
   resources listed on this page.
   Data Products on CD-ROM
   Data and Information Services for Global Change Research

   Cooperating Data Centers:
     * NOAA Satellite Active Archive
     * USGS National Satellite Remote Sensing Data Archive
     * Global Hydrology Resource Center
     * NASDA Earth Observation Center

      Home Icon HOME      Search Icon SEARCH      Feedback Icon FEEDBACK
