http://calepa.ca.gov/PressRoom/Newsletters/2001/Summer.htm

   California Home
     Welcome to California, with pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable
   car, electronic organizer, city skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress
                                   tree



   Cal/EPA Home
   Programs
   What's New
   Legislation
   Press Room
   Publications
   Calendar
   About Cal/EPA
   Resources
   Employment

   Cal/EPA Links
   Cal/EPA Home
   Search Cal/EPA
   Site Index
   Contact Cal/EPA
   Help




   California Environmental Protection Agency

      __________ search
   (*) This Site ( ) My CA
     Environment - Summer 2001 Newsletter

     * Governor Helps Cal/EPA Celebrate 10th Anniversary
     * From My Corner
     * E-Waste Concerns Move to Front & Center
     * ARB Programs Focus on Reducing Air Pollution
     * CIWMB Sponsors Conversion Technology Forum
     * Celeste Cantú Named Executive Director of State Water Resources
       Control Board
     * Richard Katz Appointed to State Water Resources Control Board
     * OEHHA To Develop Public Health Goal For Chromium 6 (Hexavalent
       Chromium) In Drinking Water
     * DPR Takes Sting Out Of Pest Control
     * Reporting an Environmental Accident/Incident
     * Energy Information

   Governor Helps Cal/EPA Celebrate 10th Anniversary

   Hundreds of Cal/EPA, board, department and office employees celebrated
   the agencys tenth anniversary in cool, breezy weather in the buildings
   courtyard.

   Adding to the festivities, a visit by Governor Gray Davis who spoke to
   the crowd and praised the work of the agency and all the people in the
   Cal/EPA family.

   As we mark this milestone, I want to express my appreciation--and that
   of a grateful California--to the extraordinary public servants at
   Cal/EPA, Governor Davis said.

   For the last decade, youve been the great guardians of our health and
   the health of our environment. Your hard work has resulted in cleaner
   air, cleaner water and a better quality of life for us all.

   Future generations will owe you a big debt of gratitude, the governor
   added.

   By nearly every measure, Californias environment is healthier today
   than it was 10 years ago. Our air is cleaner. Our water is purer. Our
   land better protected.

   Agency Secretary Winston H. Hickox introduced the governor and the two
   former Cal/EPA secretaries who shared the stage, James Strock and Peter
   Rooney. Secretary Hickox spoke of the agencys and the Davis
   administrations commitment to maintain and increase protection of
   Californias air, water and land.

   The July 17th celebration was the third major event in our courtyard
   since nearly 3000 employees started working in the City of Sacramentos
   Joe Serna Jr. Cal/EPA Headquarters Building.

   Although partially occupied since late last year, the building was
   officially dedicated in April.
   Photograph of Gov. Gray Davis with Agency Secretary Winston H. Hickox
   and former secretaries Peter Rooney and James Strock

   Photograph of Gov. Gray Davis with Agency Secretary Winston H. Hickox
   and former secretaries Peter Rooney and James Strock.

   The striking piece of architecture is officially the City of
   Sacramentos Joe Serna Jr. Cal/EPA Headquarters Building. A new landmark
   for the citys revitalized downtown, the building is a unique example of
   cooperation between a municipal landlord, the state as tenant and the
   private sector providing management.

   From My Corner

   Photograph of Winston H. Hickox By Winston H. Hickox, Agency Secretary

   As you know, 2001 has been dominated by energy concerns. The issues
   affect all of us, in our working lives and as consumers.

   Many of our colleagues have spent innumerable hours wrestling with the
   electricity situation. Toward the end of spring, gasoline also become a
   major topic.

   The design of the Cal/EPA Headquarters Building (and our major
   commitment to energy efficient office equipment) has given us a head
   start in making sure we help conserve electricity. During Stage Three
   events, we have done our part and more to help keep the lights on by
   reducing our needs to the bare minimum.

   Living and working in the Central Valley, we are used to hot summers.
   Having to turn our thermostats up to 78 (at home or at work) is not
   comfortable, but people in this building are persevering with
   remarkable good cheer.

   California is totally committed to solving this problem in such a way
   that the state has more generating plants and a stabilized electricity
   market. By the end of next year we expect to have gotten past the
   discomfort of high thermostats in the summer, although sensible
   efficiency and conservation measures will always be a good idea. During
   the current energy situation we are making sure the states
   environmental needs are not overlooked. Many power plants have already
   been required to install state of the art pollution control equipment.
   The balance soon will. By the end of next summer we expect that their
   total air emissions will be lower... despite the fact that they are
   running longer hours and producing more electricity.

   We also have to cope with a new gasoline problem. As part of his
   commitment to the states environment, Governor Gray Davis ordered the
   oxygenate MTBE removed from gasoline by the end of last year. Oxygenate
   is in the gas that most Californians use because of a clause in the
   1990 version of the federal Clean Air Act. However, MTBE has polluted
   California water and we need it removed.

   Based on 1980s technology, oxygenate in the form of MTBE or ethanol was
   a good idea because it helped reduce NOx, a precursor to smog. However,
   technologies in the automobile and oil industries have progressed so
   that oxygenate is no longer necessary except in special circumstances.
   That is why the state petitioned the US EPA for a waiver so California
   could produce an exceptionally clean burning gasoline without any
   oxygenate. Our Air Resources Board has demonstrated that this gas
   (called RFG-3, the third generation of reformulated gasoline) would
   help us meet clean air standards and would be cleaner and less costly
   to produce than the gas required under the eleven year-old Clean Air
   Act. Despite the fact that the law anticipated such an event and
   specifically authorizes such a waiver, the US EPA turned us down in
   mid-June.

   Governor Davis gave me three months to evaluate the states alternatives
   and to recommend a course of action. I will be taking into account the
   states firm commitment to clean air and clean water and our need to
   keep gas prices from increasing unnecessarily. Given the prospect of
   ethanol driving up the pump price by 50 cents and of MTBE further
   polluting our water, California has its work cut out for it dealing
   with this additional challenge. I will keep you updated as this issue
   develops.

   E-Waste Concerns Move to Front & Center

   -waste - the term used to describe end-of-life electronic products such
   as: obsolete computers, televisions, cell phones, and video cassette
   recorders is one of the fastest growing waste streams in California.
   E-waste not only takes up valuable space in our nations municipal
   landfills, but contains lead, chromium and copper as well, constituents
   that are known to be hazardous to the environment. When electronic
   products end up in the landfill, their components can degrade and the
   hazardous materials they contain can contaminate the environment.

   In California, an estimated 30 million computer monitors and
   televisions will be thrown away in the next five years. Each TV and
   monitor contains a cathode ray tube (CRT), the device that converts an
   electronic signal into the visual image that the viewer sees. A typical
   17-inch computer monitor contains approximately 2.2 pounds of lead and
   an older 27-inch television can contain up to 8 pounds of lead. If all
   30 million CRTs are disposed in municipal landfills, we will place as
   much as 100 million pounds of lead into our environment. Over time, the
   lead can potentially leach out and contaminate the surrounding soil and
   groundwater.

   Faced with this disposal challenge, the Department of Toxic Substances
   Control (DTSC) acknowledged that full hazardous waste management
   requirements are too restrictive for this waste stream. DTSC has
   drafted emergency regulations that place CRTs in the universal waste
   rule. As universal waste, individuals will be able to collect CRTs
   without a permit and transport them to recyclers without hazardous
   waste manifests or registered haulers. Businesses that recycle CRTs
   will be subject to certain reduced permitting and management
   requirements intended to assure the safe recycling of the CRTs.

   DTSC and the Integrated Waste Management Board (IWMB) are jointly
   leading an effort to tackle this problem. A key element: to increase
   the public and private sectors understanding of the hazardous waste
   regulations for CRTs and to make sure that waste CRTs are kept out of
   landfills. The IWMB has notified all solid waste local enforcement
   agencies (LEAs) in California to adhere to current guidelines until the
   new regulations are in place. DTSC will focus its enforcement efforts
   on protection of the environment from the indiscriminate disposal of
   CRTs to unauthorized locations

   Many communities around the state stage household hazardous waste
   collection days that allow the public to drop the E-waste off at
   centralized locations. By and large, the materials used to manufacture
   electronic products are recyclable. The plastics can be recycled to
   make new plastic products; the metal parts and wiring can be reclaimed;
   and even the CRTs can be recycled. CRT glass can be recycled by being
   broken and crushed and used to manufacture new CRT glass. Monitors and
   CRTs can be sent to secondary smelters, who use the glass as a
   substitute for sand (a fluxing agent) or as a lead source. DTSC and the
   IWMB have placed information on the management and recycling of CRTs on
   their websites, located at: www.dtsc.ca.gov/Current Affairs and
   www.ciwmb.ca.gov/Electronics/.

   In addition to the focus on recycling end-of-life electronic products,
   DTSC and the IWMB are pursuing new approaches for addressing the
   E-waste dilemma. Along with other states agencies, DTSC and the IWMB
   are negotiating on the National Product Stewardship Electronics
   Initiative, a forum to construct voluntary end-of-life management
   efforts that encourage manufacturers, governmental agencies, and
   environmental groups to work together to reduce the public and
   environmental risks of old electronic equipment. The National
   Electronics Product Stewardship Initiative (NEPSI), which includes
   representatives from the electronics manufacturers, government
   agencies, environmental groups, and others, met formally for the first
   time on June 21st and 22nd in San Francisco to develop a joint plan in
   the United States for managing used electronics.

   Additionally, the IWMB co-sponsored E-waste meetings earlier this year
   with the regional U.S. EPA office and has initiated development of
   guidelines for the procurement and end-of-life management of electronic
   products by public agencies. By passing new regulations, directing
   inter-agency efforts, working with industry and educating the public,
   Cal/EPA is on the way to resolving the e-waste problem.

   What you can do: An old TV or CRTs is not e-waste just because you no
   longer use it. If it is still usable you can pass it along to a friend
   or someone else who can use it. Or you can safely store it in a closet
   or garage. Intact CRTs are not hazardous; they are if improperly
   disposed of. (See the web sites mentioned above for more information.)

   ARB Programs Focus on Reducing Air Pollution

   In April, the California Air Resources Board (ARB)approved more than
   $600,000 for two research projects to study the effects of air
   pollution on childrens health.

   One of the studies will determine childrens exposure to pollutants
   while riding on school buses, waiting at stops and waiting near idling
   buses during loading. The $500,000 study will also use different school
   bus commute scenarios, sampling locations and bus fuel types, such as
   compressed natural gas and buses using soot traps, to characterize the
   range of childrens exposures during their daily school bus commute.
   This study is a follow-up to a two-year in-car study conducted by the
   ARB and South Coast Air Quality Management District that found exposure
   to some air pollutants and toxic compounds may be ten times higher
   inside vehicles than in ambient air. Results are expected in 2003.

   Another study will focus on sources of air pollution and their levels
   inside portable classrooms. The $126,000 allocation furthers work in
   the California Portable Classrooms Study being conducted by the ARB and
   Department of Health Services (DHS). The Portable Classrooms Study will
   measure indoor air pollutant levels and environmental conditions in 240
   classrooms at 60 schools, including both traditional classrooms and
   portables. Results from the study, expected in 2002, will bolster the
   main study by providing more information on mold spores and floor dust
   pollution concentrations, greatly increasing the available information
   on student and teacher classroom exposures to air pollutants. Two other
   ARB programs continue making steady progress in reducing air pollution.

   The ARBs Carl Moyer incentives program, funded with $98 million over
   the past three fiscal years, reduces smog-forming and cancer-causing
   air emissions from diesel engines. The reductions are achieved by
   paying equipment owners to reduce soot and nitrogen oxide emissons
   below the levels required by regulation.

   Estimated emission reductions from the programs first two years are
   about 2200 tons per year (TPY) of NOx and about 70 TPY of soot.

   Moyer funding is used to reduce emissions in trucks, buses, boats,
   locomotives, forklifts, airport equipment and a variety of other
   off-road equipment.

   Another ARB program showing continued success in pollution reduction is
   the heavy duty diesel truck inspection program. When the program was
   revived in November, 1999, the failure rate for trucks with excess
   smoke ran around 8%. Since the beginning of this year, the overall
   failure rate has dropped to and remains around 4%.

   However, failure rates as high as 12% have been found as ARB teams
   recently have started setting up on surface streets in low income areas
   rather than on major freeways. Inspectors are finding that trucks that
   stick to surfaces streets and never go on freeways have both more
   violations for excess smoke and a higher rate of safety violations.

   The program uses an electronic sensing device to measure
   the darkness or opacity of the smoke coming from a trucks exhaust pipe.
   Trucks with excess smoke receive a notice of violation. The owner must
   pay a fine and fix the smoking truck.

   CIWMB Sponsors Conversion Technology Forum

   With energy development a primary concern throughout the state, the
   California Integrated Waste Management Board (CIWMB) recently sponsored
   a two-day forum on Conversion Technologies for Municipal Residuals.

   The forum provided a dialogue for more than 160 stakeholders interested
   in discussing issues and barriers that face the commercialization of
   conversion technologies. These non-combustion technologies such as
   gasification, hydrolysis, and anaerobic digestion offer the potential
   of integrating energy and other product development with the diversion
   of yard trimmings, wood, agricultural residue and low-grade paper
   residues. Currently organic materials make up 40 percent of materials
   disposed, while non-recyclable paper makes up an additional 30 percent
   of landfilled materials in California.

   CIWMB Chair Linda Moulton-Patterson said We are extremely interested in
   examining new and innovative opportunities utilizing conversion
   technologies since 15 million tons of organic materials are still sent
   to California landfills each year. With these new technologies, we can
   convert these resources into high-value products such as energy,
   ethanol and other fuels, citric acid and a number of industrial
   products.

   With a number of conversion projects currently on the drawing board,
   speakers highlighted several barriers that exist; including lack of
   financing, availability and cost of feedstock, processing costs,
   development of regional markets, permitting issues and statutory limits
   on diversion credits.

   As a result of the forum, CIWMB Board Members unanimously approved
   recommendations to promote the establishment of a formal interagency
   working group on conversion technologies and related biomass issues in
   coordination with Cal/EPA, Resources Agency, Technology Trade and
   Commerce Agency, other State agencies, and the Governors Office. Board
   members also approved initial planning for upcoming educational
   workshops targeting local elected officials; research on existing
   funding programs; development of new proposals for research &
   development and lifecycle assessment funding; and provisions to provide
   permit assistance in coordination with Cal/EPA for project applicants.

   Cal/EPA Secretary Winston H. Hickox stated, The statewide energy needs
   of California have become a catalyst for the development of these newly
   emerging technologies. CIWMB has once again taken a leadership role in
   uncovering additional mechanisms to divert more of Californias organic
   resources from landfills while providing the state with the opportunity
   to generate new energy in the process.

   Celeste Cantú Named Executive Director of State Water Resources Control
   Board

   Photograph of Celeste Cantu Celeste Cantú was named the State Water
   Boards new Executive Director April 2001. Cantú comes to the SWRCB
   after serving as the Chief Consultant for the Assembly Committee on
   Jobs, Economic Development, and the Economy. She has also worked as the
   California State Director for the USDAs Rural Development program and
   spent 12 years as the Executive Director of the Imperial Valley Housing
   Authority.

   Cantú was born and raised in the town of Calexico on the
   California-Mexico border, and received her BA in Urban Planning at Yale
   University. After earning her MPA at Harvard Universitys Kennedy School
   of Government, Cantú returned to her home in Southern California.

   As the Executive Director, Cantú will plan, organize and direct all
   activities of the SWRCB, including statewide policy development, and
   coordinate efforts with the nine Regional Water Quality Control Boards.
   I think what were doing here is among the most important work that
   needs to be done, she said.

   Richard Katz Appointed to State Water Resources Control Board

   The State Water Resources Control Board added a new member to its ranks
   March 6 when
   Governor Gray Davis appointed Richard Katz, a Southern California
   political affairs expert who spent 16 years in the State Legislature.
   He is awaiting Senate confirmation.

   A resident of Sylmar, Katz owns Richard Katz Consulting, a planning and
   communications firm in the San Fernando Valley. From 1980 to 1996, Katz
   served in the State Assembly, and in 1990, was named the Sierra Club
   Legislator of the Year for his exemplary record on environmental
   issues. He currently serves on a number of organizations, including the
   League of Conservation Voters, and the Environmental Leadership Forum.

   Katz, who earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from San Diego State
   University, will take his position alongside current Board members
   Arthur G. Baggett, Jr. (chair) and Peter S. Silva (vice chair).

   It is the mission of the State and Regional Water Boards to preserve
   and enhance the quality of Californias water resources and assure their
   proper allocation and effective use.

   OEHHA To Develop Public Health Goal For Chromium 6 (Hexavalent
   Chromium) In Drinking Water

   The Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) has joined
   with the Department of Health Services (DHS) to announce two
   significant developments in the study and regulation of chromium 6 in
   drinking water. Public concern about this chemical has been growing
   since the movie Erin Brockovich placed the possible dangers of chromium
   6 in the spotlight.

   DHS has asked OEHHA to establish a specific Public Health Goal (PHG)
   for chromium 6, also known as hexavalent chromium, to identify the
   level at which there is no significant human health risk when this
   contaminant is in drinking water. Establishing this PHG is the first
   step toward the development of a state drinking water standard for
   chromium 6. California law requires DHS to set drinking water standards
   based in part on the PHGs published by OEHHA. The standard will be the
   first one in the nation specifically for hexavalent chromium.

   At the same time, OEHHA announced that Cal/EPA, on behalf of OEHHA, has
   asked the University of California (UC) to establish a blue-ribbon
   panel of expert scientists from throughout the nation to review
   questions on the potential of chromium 6 to cause cancer when it is
   ingested.

   California is looking at the potential health impacts of chromium 6 in
   drinking water in a greater level of detail than anywhere else in the
   United States, said OEHHA Director Joan E. Denton, Ph.D. Chromium 6 is
   known to cause cancer when it is inhaled. This blue-ribbon panel of
   national experts on chromium will ensure that we put the best science
   to work in assessing the health risks that chromium 6 in drinking water
   may pose.

   UC will select up to 13 scientists to serve on the blue-ribbon panel.
   The panel will provide recommendations to assist OEHHA in developing
   the PHG and will also assist DHS and OEHHA in conducting their
   assessment of potential risks posed by chromium 6 in public water
   systems serving the San Fernando Valley. Senate Bill 2127, approved by
   the Legislature and signed into law last year, requires this assessment
   to be completed by the end of this year.

   OEHHA has asked that the chair of the panel hold one public workshop
   and then present its recommendations this summer. OEHHA expects to
   publish a final PHG for chromium by Spring 2003.

   In February 1999, OEHHA published a PHG of 2.5 parts per billion (ppb)
   for total chromium, of which chromium 6 is a component. However,
   chromium 6 is the most toxic form of chromium. Limited data collected
   by DHS during the past two years have led health officials to suspect
   that chromium 6 comprises a larger percentage of total chromium
   typically found in water than was believed when OEHHA published the PHG
   for total chromium. More recently, DHS promulgated emergency
   regulations requiring California water utilities to monitor their
   drinking water specifically for chromium 6 and report their findings to
   DHS.

   Currently, the California drinking water standard is 50 ppb for total
   chromium, which is twice as stringent as the federal standard of 100
   ppb.

   It is important to note that PHGs are not a boundary line between safe
   and dangerous levels of contaminants in drinking water. PHGs represent
   desirable goals for healthful drinking water that may or may not be
   immediately achievable. In developing drinking water standards, state
   law requires DHS to consider economic and technical feasibility as well
   as the PHGs in setting these standards.

   DPR Takes Sting Out Of Pest Control

   The California Department of Pesticide Regulation (DPR) conducted a
   well-received public outreach campaign this spring that alerted
   California consumers to the hazards of pesticide misuse, while urging
   homeowners and gardeners to use non-toxic pest management. DPR Director
   Paul E. Helliker took a personal interest in alternative solutions
   after a swarm of honeybees invaded an exterior wall of his Sacramento
   home in April. Helliker--who previously kept bees as a hobby--decided
   to establish his own backyard hive rather than exterminate the
   beneficial insects. Three Sacramento TV stations filmed the scene as
   Helliker, dressed in beekeepers coveralls, helmet and netting, gently
   moved the bees into their new home. (Neither Helliker nor bystanders
   sustained any stings during the process.)
   Photograph of dressed for success against honey bees

   Dressed for success (against honey bees) DPR Director Paul Helliker
   explains how to deal with pests without pesticides.

   The Director also held an informal press conference to promote DPRs
   support for integrated pest management (IPM). It stresses working with
   nature to make it difficult for pests to survive, while encouraging
   beneficial insects and plants to thrive.

   Later in April, DPR launched a pesticide safety campaign in Southern
   California, following two explosions linked to overuse of insect
   foggers, better known as bug bombs. A gas pilot light ignited 18
   foggers in a small San Diego apartment, ripping open the ceiling and
   tearing kitchen cabinets from the walls. A few days earlier, a Los
   Angeles woman sustained burns when 30 foggers exploded in her home,
   blowing off the roof. In both cases, foggers were overused and other
   safety instructions on the product labels were ignored.

   In response, DPR issued a special consumer alert to print and broadcast
   news media and distributed English and Spanish-language versions of a
   new fact sheet on insect fogger safety. (See
   www.cdpr.ca.gov/docs/factshts/factmenu.htm.)

   Reporting an Environmental Accident/Incident

     Office of Emergency Services (916) 262-1621
     (California only) (800) 852-7550

     Warning Center (24 Hour) (916) 262-1621
     Water Pollution 1-800-952-5400
     South Coast AQMD 1-800-CUT-SMOG

   Reporting an Environmental Crime/Violation

     Toxics (916) 324-2448
     Illegal Handling of Hazardous Waste 1-800-69-TOXIC
     Sacramento (916) 255-3618
     Berkeley (510) 540-3739
     Glendale (818) 551-2800
     Cypress (714) 484-5400

     Air Pollution (916) 322-6022
     Complaint Hot Line 1-800-952-5588
     Water Pollution 1-800-952-5400
     Landfills (916) 341-6406
     Pesticides (916) 445-3920
     Smoking Vehicles 1-800-END-SMOG
     Cellular (Statewide) #SMOG

   Cal/EPA Environmental Hotline

     1-800-CLEANUP (Nationwide)
     www.1800cleanup.org

   Cal/EPA Border Environmental Program

     http://bep.calepa.ca.gov

   CalGOLD: California Government On-line To Desktops

     www.calgold.ca.gov

   Use your appliances wisely:
     * Turn off appliances, lights and equipment when not in use.
     * To help prevent electricity outages, run major appliances after 7
       p.m.
     * Do your laundry efficiently by using the warm or cold water setting
       for washing your clothes and always use cold water to rinse
       clothes.
     * Conserve energy by running your dishwasher only when it is fully
       loaded, and turn off the dry cycle to allow dishes to air dry
       instead.

   Inexpensive energy solutions:
     * Choose Energy Star ® products. Purchase compact fluorescent light
       bulbs. They use a quarter of the energy and last five to ten times
       longer than conventional light bulbs.
     * Replace air conditioner filters. Dirty filters restrict airflow and
       can cause the system to run longer, increasing energy use. Replace
       or clean filters monthly for maximum benefit.

   Energy Efficiency and Conservation Programs
     * 20/20 Energy Rebate: In many areas of California, residential,
       commercial and industrial customers are eligible for this voluntary
       program which will provide rebates to customers who reduce their
       summer 2001 electricity usage. Customers should call their local
       utility to inquire about eligibility. Customers of participating
       utilities will receive a 20% rebate on their summer electric bill
       if they cut back their electricity use by 20% over last summers
       level. Alternative energy households are not eligible.

   SCE Web site and 800 number

     1-800-736-4777

   PG&E Web site and 800 number

     1-800-933-9555 (residential customers)
     1-800-468-4743 (commercial, industrial customers)

   SDG&E Web site and 800 number

   Check out www.flexyourpower.ca.gov for more information and ways to
   save money.

   Flex your Power image

   Newsletter Home | Press Room Home

   Last updated: October 31, 2001
     __________________________________________________________________

   California Environmental Protection Agency  http://www.calepa.ca.gov/
   Webmaster, webmaster@calepa.ca.gov  (916) 445-3846
   ©1998, 2002 California Environmental Protection Agency. All rights
   reserved.

   Cal/EPA | ARB | CIWMB | DPR | DTSC | OEHHA | SWRCB
