http://www.womenbiz.gov/cawbo_factsheet.pdf

   THE CAWBO FACT SHEET Office of Federal Contract Assistance for Women
   Business Owners (CAWBO) NEW OFFICE ESTABLISHED The Office of Federal
   Contract Assistance for Women Business Owners (CAWBO) was established
   October 1, 2000, in the Office of Government Contracting at the U.S.
   Small Business Administration. The purpose of the office is to increase
   federal contracting op- portunities for women-owned small business
   (WOSB) and to increase the number of WOSB that successfully compete in
   the federal marketplace. NEW LEGISLATION ENACTED In December 2000, the
   office was given responsibility for the Women-Owned Small Busi- ness
   Federal Contract Assistance Program as part of SBA's Reauthorization
   Act (Public Law 106-554). This legislation has been incorporated into
   the Small Business Act, 15 U.S. C. S 637(m). The new program allows
   federal agencies to "restrict competition" when they solicit supplies
   or services in industries where WOSB are underrepresented, if two or
   more WOSB are expected to compete and the government expects to be able
   to make an award at a fair and reasonable price. Such contracts cannot
   exceed $3 million for services or $5 million in manufacturing. WHY THIS
   NEW PROGRAM IS IMPORTANT In 1994, Congress enacted the Federal
   Acquisition and Streamlining Act (FASA) that, among other things, set a
   goal of 5 percent of federal contract dollars to be awarded to WOSB.
   This goal has never been achieved. In fact, the amount of federal
   contract dollars awarded to WOSB has never exceeded 2.5 percent. FASA
   did not establish any specific means by which the 5 percent could be
   achieved and it did not specify how the goal would be accounted to
   prime and subcontracting. Given the need for clarification and more ac-
   tion to reach at least 5 percent, Congress established this program as
   a tool the agencies may use to help achieve this goal. In FY 2000, WOSB
   won $4.6 billion of the federal procurement dollars. During this time
   federal procurement grew nearly 8 percent, but contract dollars to WOSB
   were approxi- mately the same as in FY 1999. Therefore, the percent
   awarded to WOSB fell to 2.3 per- cent from 2.5 percent. CAWBO'S ROLE IN
   IMPLEMENTING THE NEW PROGRAM Before agencies can use the program,
   industries in which WOSB have been underrepre- sented must be
   identified. CAWBO is leading the efforts to complete a study and will
   publish the list of eligible industries when the research is completed.
   As part of the imple- mentation effort, changes to the Federal
   Acquisition Regulations (FAR) and the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
   will include definitions of "economically disadvantaged,"
   "underrepresented," and "substantially underrepresented," and will
   specify the process for certification, waivers, etc. CAWBO expects to
   complete the implementation by the end of 2001. CAWBO will work closely
   with the major procuring agencies, especially those that have not yet
   achieved the 5 percent goal, to open up more contracting opportunities
   to WOSB using this new program. The office is also reaching out to WOSB
   and organizations to raise awareness about this new contracting vehicle
   and environment. The program does not waive federal agencies'
   responsibility to award contracts to qualified firms at reasonable
   prices. CAWBO is also working to improve procurement training and
   practice. Mentor- (see reverse side) protégé programs, teaming, and
   subcontracting have been used successfully by small firms to gain
   experience and past performance records. CAWBO is increasing attention
   and efforts regarding these and other methods to help more WOSB become
   qualified, successful contractors. RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO ASSIST WOSB
   IN FEDERAL PROCUREMENT While it is not necessary to be certified to
   participate in federal contracting, it is a requirement to participate
   in certain special procurement programs. SBA has several procurement
   assistance programs that eligible WOSB are encouraged to use. They are
   HUBZone, 8(a), and Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB). Informa- tion
   about applicable criteria and procedures can be found on the website of
   each program. They are: http://www. sba.gov/med sba.gov/sdb
   sba.gov/hubzone SBA also has 70 District Offices, over 900 Small
   Business Development Centers (SBDC), approximately 90 Women's Business
   Centers (WBC) and six Area (procurement) Offices with a staff of
   experienced procure- ment specialists. For a complete list and the
   resources nearest you, go to www.sba.gov and search for pro- grams and
   offices. Procurement assistance is available at www.sba.gov/gc. All
   WOSB are encouraged to register in PRO-Net. It is an on-line data base
   that is searched by contracting officers and prime contractors to
   locate firms in particular industries and locations, often by type of
   owner- ship, e.g., WOSB. It is an excellent marketing tool for WOSB to
   gain instant and wide exposure to the federal contracting community. A
   firm can self-certify that it is small and that it is women-owned
   (meaning that at least 51 percent of the ownership and control is by
   women). A firm can also provide information about the services or
   supplies it provides plus a listing of awards or other favorable past
   performance information. In addition, all WOSB seeking contracts or
   subcontracts are encouraged to search www.WomenBiz.gov which has over
   100 links to procurement information. The website also has sections on
   Getting Started, Sub- contracting, Agency Forecasting, and
   Mentor-Protégé Programs. It also includes contacts with the Small Dis-
   advantaged Business Utilization Offices, the Women Business Advocates,
   the On-Line Women's Business Center and SBA's Procurement Center
   Representatives.
