http://www.boost4kids.gov/topics.cfm?ID=3

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet B4K Network

   Find Your State

   Home


   Boost 4 Kids

   HOME

Hot Topics

   work together



   COMMON APPLICATION


   California Food Policy Advocates

   California Food Policy Advocates is a private nonprofit organization
   dedicated to improving the health and well-being of low-income
   Californians by increasing their access to nutritious and affordable
   food. Topics such as child care food, school breakfast and lunch,
   summer food, WIC, direct certification and food ordering.

   Child Health Insurance and the National School Lunch Program

   Fostering A Close Connection: Report to Covering Kids on Options for
   Conducting Child Health Insurance Outreach and Enrollment Through the
   National School Lunch Program

   Digital Signature Guidelines

   In today's commercial environment, establishing a framework for the
   authentication of computer-based information requires a familiarity
   with concepts and professional skills from both the legal and computer
   security fields.

   Health Insurance and Coordination with School Lunch Programs

   This is the first in a series of issue briefs about some of the
   innovative methods being explored to offer more children affordable
   health care. Schools are an obvious place to find children, and states
   are reporting that sending information about childrens health insurance
   through the school system is a very effective way to generate
   applications and enrollment.

   Promising Practices Network

   This Web site has information on promising practices pertaining to
   healthy children, school readiness, success in school, child safety,
   strong families and results-based accountability.

   The Southern Regional Initiative to Improve Access to Benefits for Low
   Income Families With Children

   The Southern Regional Initiatives report discusses issues and
   strategies states can consider in providing health coverage for more
   low income children. The chapter contains a discussion of eligibility
   outreach and eligibility simplification issues, including common
   applications.

   Vermont Electronic Enrollment Application Form

   For some time now the partners of the Hardwick Area Patch and the
   Agency of Human Services have been working to pilot a single electronic
   application form. As of July 1999, the Patch office is able to take
   applications for about 25 services offered by the 8 partners.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
