http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct/gui/c/a1r/info/help?JServSessionIdzone_ct=z0xuieqex1

   ClinicalTrials.gov
   skipnav Home | Search | Browse | Resources | Help | What's New | About

Help for Searching ClinicalTrials.gov

   Background
   Finding Clinical Trials:
   Basic Search
   Focused Search
   Search Features
   Browse
   Working with the Results of a Clinical Trials Search
   Unexpected Results
   Are All Clinical Studies Listed in the Clinical Trials Database?
   Additional Information

  Background

   What are clinical trials? Clinical trials are research studies in which
   new treatments - drugs, diagnostics procedures, vaccines, and other
   therapies - are tested in people to see if they are safe and effective.
   For background information on clinical trials, factors in choosing to
   participate in a study, and related information, see the Resources
   section of the Web site.

   What is ClinicalTrials.gov? ClinicalTrials.gov is a Web site that
   provides patients, family members, health professionals, and members of
   the public access to information on clinical research studies,
   including trial name and ID, sponsors, purpose, current status, who may
   be eligible, where trials are being held, whom to contact, and
   references to published papers that describe findings. It is being
   developed by the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) through its
   National Library of Medicine (NLM). For more information about this Web
   site, see the About section.

   Which clinical trials are included in this database? This site
   currently contains clinical studies sponsored primarily by the National
   Institutes of Health and other Federal agencies. In addition, studies
   from the pharmaceutical industry are being included. See Are All
   Clinical Studies Listed in the Clinical Trials Database? for more
   details.

   Who provides the information in the database? Information is provided
   by the study sponsors. Every effort is made to ensure the quality and
   currency of the database.

  Finding Clinical Trials

   There are three ways to look for clinical trial records:
     * Use Basic Search to find information broadly.
     * Use Focused Search to find studies meeting specific criteria.
     * Use Browse to find studies sorted by condition or by sponsor.

   Whatever method you choose, it is suggested that you bring your search
   results to your physician to discuss whether a clinical trial will be
   appropriate in your situation.

   Because of differences among these methods, your results for the same
   topic may vary slightly.

  Basic Search [Try It!]

   On the home page or search screen, enter words or phrases separated by
   commas. These may include, for example, diseases, treatments,
   locations, and names of researchers.
   Examples:
     * lupus
     * heart attack
     * leukemia

   Click on the Search button.

   A list of the studies retrieved by your search is displayed on the
   Search Results page. The search method used is also shown.

   Example: Search results for (heart attack) are shown below.

   For information about using the Search Results, see the section Working
   with the Results of a Clinical Trials Search.

    How Basic Search Works

   In Basic Search, the system looks broadly through the clinical trials
   database for the words and phrases that you provide. Information on
   studies that contain those words and phrases are retrieved and listed
   in the Search Results.

  Focused Search [Try It!]

   On the Focused Search page, enter words or phrases in the appropriate
   search box(es) and click on any of the check boxes to specify your
   search criteria. Note that it is not necessary to fill in all the
   boxes, only those that are needed for your search. Words or phrases
   should be separated by commas.

   The various categories for focusing your search are described below.

    Disease or Condition

     Use this box to specify health problems or conditions being studied.
     Examples:
     * lupus
     * heart attack
     * leukemia

    Experimental Treatment

     Use this box to specify drugs, devices, procedures, or vaccines used
     in a trial.
     Examples:
     * clofibrate
     * cyclosporine
     * vitamin e

    Trial Location

     Use this box to specify a geographic location where studies are
     being conducted.
     Examples:
     * bethesda
     * alabama
     * san francisco
     * portland, maine

    Additional Terms

     Enter any other terms that you wish to add to your search.
     Examples:
     * pilot study
     * veterans affairs medical center
     * thelma watson
     * nhlbi

    Age Group

     Studies may be designed for participants of particular ages:
     * Children (birth-17)
     * Adults (18-65)
     * Senior (66+)

     Click the check box to the left of each age group that you wish to
     include in your search. If you do not check any boxes you will
     retrieve studies for all age groups.

    Study Phase

     Most clinical trials are designated as phase I, II, or III, based on
     the type of questions that study is seeking to answer:
     * In Phase I clinical trials, researchers test a new drug or
       treatment in a small group of people (20-80) for the first time to
       evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range, and identify
       side effects.
     * In Phase II clinical trials, the study drug or treatment is given
       to a larger group of people (100-300) to see if it is effective and
       to further evaluate its safety.
     * In Phase III studies, the study drug or treatment is given to large
       groups of people (1,000-3,000) to confirm its effectiveness,
       monitor side effects, compare it to commonly used treatments, and
       collect information that will allow the drug or treatment to be
       used safely.

     These phases are defined by the Food and Drug Administration in the
     Code of Federal Regulations. For additional background information
     on phases of clinical trials, see Resource Information.

     In some cases, after a treatment is already available for general
     use, follow-up studies (Phase IV) may be conducted to determine
     additional information about its risks, benefits, and optimal use.

     Click the check box to the left of each study phase that you wish to
     include in your search. Select one or more study phases. If you do
     not select a specific phase, trials in any phase that match your
     other search terms will be retrieved.

    Supported By

     Studies are sponsored or supported by organizations responsible for
     providing financial and other types of support. All of the sponsors
     in the database have been assigned to one of the following
     organization types:
     * National Institutes of Health (NIH)
     * Other Federal Agency (e.g., the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
       and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC))
     * Industry (e.g., pharmaceutical companies)
     * University/Organization (e.g., community-based organizations)

     Click on any of the boxes to limit the search to certain types of
     sponsors. If no boxes are checked, all support categories will be
     included.

    Study ID Number

     Each trial is assigned one or more identification numbers by the
     institute, agency, or organization sponsoring the trial. Use this
     box to enter any part or all of a Study ID.
     Examples:
     * NCT00001789
     * 97-h-0197
     * ia0006
     * actg 076

    Include Synonyms in Search

     Synonyms for any words or phrases that you enter will automatically
     be included in the search (see the section on Synonyms for more
     details). If you do not want synonyms to be used, make sure that the
     "Include synonyms in search" check box is not marked.

    Results of a Focused Search

   When you have finished specifying search criteria, click on the Search
   button.

   A list of the studies retrieved by your search is displayed on the
   Search Results page. The search that was used is listed at the top of
   the page.

   Example: Search results for (Adult (18-65)) <AND> (diabetes) are shown
   below.

   For information about using the Search Results, see the section Working
   with the Results of a Clinical Trials Search.

    How Focused Search Works

   In Focused Search, the system looks in the clinical trials database for
   the words and phrases that you provide and limits the search based on
   the check boxes that you select. In addition, the system "focuses" its
   search on particular sections of a study, depending on the search box
   you use.

  Search Features

    Synonyms

   Medical terms can be difficult to remember, and often there are many
   names for a single concept (e.g., cancer of the colon, colonic
   neoplasm, colon cancer, etc.). When the "Include synonyms in search"
   box is checked in a Focused Search, words related to those you entered
   may be added automatically to your search. This may increase the number
   of trials retrieved. Note that the box is automatically checked before
   a search.

   Example: When using the phrase heart attack in a search, the related
   phrase myocardial infarction will be added when the "Include synonyms
   in search" box is checked.

    Spelling

   Many medical terms are difficult to spell. When the words that you have
   entered are not recognized during a search, the system may suggest
   other words with similar spelling that are found in the database.

   Example: A search using the word altzhimer results in the message,
   "altzhimer was not found. Select an alternative below or change your
   query." One word is offered: "alzheimer." To replace the original word
   with this one, click on the circle to the left. If you are not sure
   which word to use, refer to a medical dictionary.

  Browse [Try It!]

   Use Browse to find clinical trial records indexed in two ways:
     * by condition
     * by sponsor

   If you know the name of a disease or condition, use the alphabetical
   browse to select the first letter. You will then see a list of diseases
   that start with that letter arranged alphabetically and the number of
   studies for each disease in this database. Clicking on any of the
   disease or condition links will provide you with a list of studies in
   the database that are related to that topic.

   Browsing by disease heading starts with an index of different disease
   categories. Clicking on one of these results in a list of specific
   diseases and the number of studies for each disease in this database.
   To see the list of clinical trials for a particular disease or
   condition, click on the name of the disease.

   Example: To find the types of nervous system conditions for which there
   are clinical trials in this database, click on "Browse" from the menu
   bar at the top of any page or "Browse by Condition" from the home page.
   Next, click on "By Disease Heading" and then on "Nervous System
   Diseases." The next screen shows a list of diseases and conditions of
   the nervous system arranged alphabetically. Clicking on any particular
   link, such as "Alzheimer Disease," will provide you with a list of
   Alzheimer Disease studies in the database.

   To find studies sponsored by a particular organization, select one of
   four categories of sponsoring organizations:
     * National Institutes of Health
     * Other Federal Agency
     * Industry
     * University/Organization

   Next, select an organization from the alphabetical listing. This will
   result in a listing of studies sponsored by that organization, ordered
   alphabetically by study title.

  Working with the Results of a Clinical Trials Search

    List of Study Titles

     The results of your search will be displayed in list format in a
     ranked order based on your search criteria. The current status of
     the trial (e.g., recruiting), title, and conditions being studied
     (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis; diabetes; breast cancer) are shown for
     each clinical trial.

    Show All Trials

     Trials may be filtered based on recruitment status (see below). When
     the box next to the label "Show all trials, including those no
     longer recruiting patients" is not checked, only studies that are
     open to enrollment (i.e., "Recruiting" or "Not yet recruiting") are
     displayed. When the box is checked, all trials, open and closed
     (i.e., those that are no longer recruiting) are displayed.

    Recruitment Status

     On the left of each study title you can see whether the study is
     open to enrollment:
     * Not yet recruiting: The clinical study is not yet recruiting and
       enrolling subjects.
     * Recruiting: The clinical study is actively recruiting and enrolling
       subjects.
     * No longer recruiting: The clinical study is not recruiting or
       enrolling subjects.
     * Completed: The clinical study is no longer recruiting and has
       completed its data analysis. The publication of results may be
       under way.
     * Suspended: The clinical study has halted recruiting or enrolling
       subjects, but may potentially resume recruiting or enrolling
       subjects.
     * Terminated: The clinical study has halted recruiting or enrolling
       subjects. There is no potential to resume recruiting or enrolling
       subjects.

    Viewing the Details of the Study

     Click on the trial title to obtain more information about the study.
     Each record is organized into four main categories:
     * Purpose
     * Eligibility
     * Location and Contact Information
     * More Information

    Selecting Multiple Studies

     To display the details of multiple clinical trials, click in the
     "select" box to the left of all of the titles of interest to you on
     the Search Results page. After making your selections, click on the
     "Display Selected Studies" button to view the full description for
     all selected studies on that page.

    Examining the Search

     On the Search Results page, you will see a brief explanation of how
     your search terms were combined. To see a the complete search
     conducted by the clinical trials database, including synonyms used
     to enhance your search, click on the button to the right of the
     words "Examine search details by pression" (near the top of the
     Search Results page).

     Example: The actual search conducted in a Focused Search for studies
     on "heart attack" (Disease or Condition) in "illinois" (Trial
     Location) supported by the NIH (Supported By: NIH) with "Include
     synonyms in search" checked is
   ((heart attack <DISEASE>) <OR> (myocardial infarction <DISEASE>)) <AND>
       ("NIH" <SPONSOR>) <AND> (illinois <LOCATION>)

    Printing Results

     Use your Web browser's Print function to print the titles or study
     details.

    Saving Results

     Use your Web browser's Save As... function to save information
     displayed on the screen to a file.

  Unexpected Results

    Search Results Are a Poor Match

     You may find that your search finds records that are not close to
     the topic you wanted.

     Example: A Basic Search for the phrase extreme hearing loss, new
     york results in the following messages on Search Results page:

                                     NOTE
     The results below are based on a broad interpretation of your search.
       Consider changing your search to use different words or phrases.

     There is no match for (extreme hearing loss <AND> new york).

   There is no match for (extreme <AND> hearing <AND> loss <AND> new <AND>
   york).
   Searching results for ((extreme <AND> hearing <AND> loss) <OR> (new
   <AND> york)) are shown below.

   In the example above, the database tried to find records containing
   both phrases extreme hearing loss and new york and failed. It then
   tried to look for records that have all five of the words in them. When
   this search was not successful, the final search looked for and found
   records that contain all three words extreme, hearing and loss or
   records that contain the two words new and york. Note that <OR> (new
   <AND> york) retrieves all studies that mention the words new and york,
   irrespective of extreme hearing loss.

   To improve your search, we suggest that you try searching again with
   fewer (e.g., hearing loss, new york) or different words (e.g.,
   deafness, new york). You may also want to browse the trials (e.g.,
   Browse : By Condition : By Disease Heading : Ear, Nose and Throat
   Diseases).

    No Search Results

   Sometimes you may find no match between the words and criteria you used
   to search and the trial records in the database. This could be due to
   (1) a spelling error, (2) too many criteria in the search, or (3) there
   are currently no clinical trials in this database that match your
   search. Check your spelling with a medical dictionary or try searching
   again with fewer words or criteria (e.g., remove a city or state from
   the search).

  Are All Clinical Trials Listed in the Clinical Trials Database?

   As a result of the FDA Modernization Act (FDAMA) of 1997 establishing
   this database, the clinical trials database will become the most
   comprehensive central listing of clinical studies sponsored by the
   National Institutes of Health, other Federal Agencies, the
   pharmaceutical industry, and private nonprofit organizations such as
   universities. There is, however, no single resource that lists every
   clinical trial for every disease being conducted in the United States.

  Additional Information

   If you wish to submit comments or suggestions, please Contact Us. For
   more clinical trials, health, and medical information, please see
   Resource Information.
   Last updated: 25 June 2001

      U.S. National Library of Medicine, Contact NLM Customer Service
    National Institutes of Health, Department of Health & Human Services
   Copyright and Privacy Policy, Freedom of Information Act, Accessibility
