http://vt.water.usgs.gov/WhatsNew/newsreleases/streamflow010802.htm

   Link back to NH/Vt home page

       Water Data News & Events Publications Current Projects District
    Information USGS Information Related Links Outreach & Education NH/VT
                                    Home
   Water Resources of New Hampshire and Vermont
   News Release: 01/08/02

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey

   Streamflow and Ground-water Levels Remain Well Below Normal in New
   Hampshire and Vermont

   Since August 2001, below-normal monthly streamflows have been recorded
   at U.S.Geological Survey (USGS) streamgaging sites throughout New
   Hampshire and Vermont due to continued lack of precipitation.
   "Throughout the two-state region, December streamflows in the major
   river basins averaged about one-half of normal," says Brian Mrazik,
   Chief of the USGS New Hampshire-Vermont District in Pembroke, N.H.,
   which maintains a long-term network of streamgages in both States.
   "Streamflows are now below normal at more than 90 percent of our
   long-term streamgages in the two-state region," says Mrazik. He also
   said that ground-water levels were averaging nearly 2 feet below normal
   at 34 observation wells across the region and nearly half showed new
   record-low levels for the month of December.

   Record Low Monthly Streamflow

   In New Hampshire, new monthly low streamflow records for December were
   recorded on the Salmon Falls River, West Branch Warner River, and
   Connecticut River near Pittsburg. Streamflows in the Lamprey River were
   only one-fifth of those normally recorded for December. In Vermont, new
   record-low streamflows for December were recorded on Ayers Brook,
   Williams River, and the Dog River.

   Ground-water levels

   Ground-water levels were also below normal throughout the two-State
   region at the end of December. New all-time record-low water levels
   were measured for wells in Enfield and Greenfield, N.H. at the end of
   December. In New Hampshire, new monthly low water levels for December
   were established at wells in Albany, Deerfield, Lisbon, New Durham,
   Newport, Ossipee, and Shelburne. The observation well in Lee has
   remained dry since June. In Vermont, new monthly low water levels for
   December were established at wells in Chester, Hartland, Middlebury,
   Morristown, and Rochester.

   Current streamflow and ground-water level data in New Hampshire and
   Vermont are available on the web at http://nh.water.usgs.gov .

   The USGS serves the nation by providing reliable scientific information
   to: describe and understand the Earth; minimize loss of life and
   property from natural disasters; manage water, biological, energy, and
   mineral resources; and enhance and protect our quality of life.

   ***USGS***

     General Contact:

   Debra Foster phone (603) 226-7837 dhfoster@usgs.gov FAX (603) 226-7894

   Technical Contact:

   Brian Mrazik phone (603) 226-7807 bmrazik@usgs.gov Address:

   New Hampshire/Vermont District
   361 Commerce Way
   Pembroke, NH 03275


       Water Data News & Events Publications Current Projects District
    Information USGS Information Related Links Outreach & Education NH/VT
                                    Home

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   New Hampshire/Vermont District, USGS, 361 Commerce Way, Pembroke, NH
   03275, USA
   Comments and feedback: NH/VT webmaster-nh@usgs.gov, 603-226-7837
   Section 508 accessibility problems contact Debra Foster:
   dhfoster@usgs.gov, 603-226-7837
   Last Updated January 10, 2002
   Privacy Statement || Disclaimer
