http://www.ueet.nasa.gov/Overview.html

   Ultra-Efficient Engine Technology Banner

   Link to Home Page Overview Page Link to Technology Areas Page Link to
   Engines 101 Page Link to Status/News Page Link to Gallery Page

   Welcome to NASA's New

              Ultra-Efficient Engine Technology Program (UEET)

   NASA has gathered together the best of its program capabilities to plan
   a 5 year engine technology program that will enable next generation
   engines for both commercial and military applications. The UEET program
   seeks to significantly utilize the skills and expertise of NASA
   personnel and work in close partnership with corporate and academic
   organizations. This program will utilize NASA's extensive research
   facilities. The emphasis will be on revolutionary technologies that
   will provide subsonic, supersonic and militaries regimes of flight.

   Rather than concentrate on one level of flight this program will work
   to provide new technologies that will enhance all the levels of flight;
   subsonic, transonic, hypersonic, and supersonic. Ultra-Efficient Engine
   Technology Program has 7 technology component projects. Each component
   will work towards specific goals which will provide new technology for
   propulsion. A list of the Abbreviations and Acronyms used by the UEET
   Program is provided. A chart showing the Milestones for the programs is
   found on this page.

   Vision/Mission

   The Ultra-Efficient Engine Technology Program will work to develop and
   hand off revolutionary turbine engine propulsion technologies that will
   enable future generation vehicles over a wide range of flight speeds.

     UEET will address long term aviation growth potential without impact
     on climate by providing technology for dramatic increases in
     efficiency to enable reductions in CO2 based on overall fuel savings
     goal of up to 15%.

     UEET will address local air quality concerns as well as addressing
     potential ozone depletion by developing technologies for 70% NOx
     emissions reduction at takeoff and landing conditions, and also
     technology to enable aircraft to not impact the ozone layer during
     cruise operation.

   Learn about each of the 7 Technology Areas:

Propulsion Systems Integration and Assessment
Emissions Reduction
Highly-Loaded Turbomachinery
Engine Materials and Structures for High Performance
Propulsion-Airframe Integration
Intelligent Propulsion Controls
Integrated Component Technology Demonstrations

  Milestones Chart

     Each Project Technology Area has a planned set of milestones for
     each year of the UEET Program. This chart shows the Milestones and
     the progress made as of October, 2000. (The Chart is a PDF file and
     can be viewed with Acrobat Reader Plug-in available for your
     browser.)

     UEET Level 1 Milestone Chart, October 2000



Propulsion Systems Integration and Assessment

          Propulsion Systems Integration and Assessment takes the
          component technologies being developed in the other projects and
          integrates them into total conceptual systems and assesses those
          systems' potential for meeting the UEET Program goals. These
          assessments will also provide overall Program guidance and
          identify technology shortfalls.

          The Propulsion Systems Integration and Assessment Project has
          three key Subprojects: Propulsion System Evaluation,
          Environmental Impact Assessment and High Fidelity System
          Simulation.

          The Propulsion System Evaluation Subproject will define baseline
          engines, aircraft and missions for a wide variety of vehicle
          classes. These conceptual baselines will be used to perform
          detailed technology trade studies that will be used to provide
          technology development guidance to the other UEET projects.
          These baselines will also be used to perform annual metrics
          tracking and rollups, which will assess the progress of the UEET
          technologies toward meeting the program goals. This subproject
          will provide key inputs to the collaboration efforts with the
          Inter-center Systems Analysis Team (ISAT) which was previously
          discussed in section 2.1.

          The Environmental Impact Assessment Subproject will take the
          assessment of UEET technologies to a global level by evaluating
          the impact of engine exhaust on changes to the global
          atmospheric composition and distributions. One key contribution
          to these global assessments will be the development of a
          particulate emission measurement and modeling capability and a
          resulting database. In addition, it will provide input into a
          health risk assessment framework, which will be developed in
          partnership with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

          Finally, the High Fidelity System Simulation Subproject will be
          performed incorporating UEET technologies to better understand
          complex component interactions. These simulations will also
          demonstrate tools that can reduce future development time and
          system testing of product propulsion systems Wherever
          appropriate, the simulation tools being developed by the
          Intelligent Synthesis Environment (ISE) and the High Performance
          Computing and Communications (HPCCP) Programs will be utilized
          to accomplish program goals.

   Back to technology areas index

Emissions Reduction

     Current environmental emission concerns center around the airport
     community and, if not addressed, may threaten future growth of air
     travel. The European Union and the U.S. Environmental Protection
     Agency (EPA) are applying pressure on the International Civil
     Aviation Organization (ICAO) that regulates aircraft emissions for
     additional nitrogen oxide (NOx) reductions from aircraft. The ICAO
     Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection (CAEP) are
     considering more stringent standards for engine emissions during
     landing and takeoff (LTO) cycle-i.e., below 900 meters altitude as
     well as new standards for cruise operations.

     Combustors in most commercial aircraft today meet the current 1996
     ICAO LTO NOx limits with some margin, and concerns are increasing
     relative to cruise NOx emissions effects on the ozone layer and
     global warming. More stringent NOx limits could result in emissions
     landing fees on airlines or limited access to some countries or
     airports. The European Union recognized the need for NOx reduction
     in aircraft engines and has set a goal of 80% for NOx emission
     reductions by 2020 in a report entitled "The European Aeronautics: A
     vision for 2020".

     Also, recent observations of aircraft exhaust contrails (from both
     subsonic and supersonic flights) have resulted in growing concern
     over aerosol, particulate, and sulfur levels. In particular,
     aerosols and particulates from aircraft are suspected of producing
     high altitude clouds that could adversely affect the earth's
     climatology.

     The Emissions Reduction Project will work with the U.S.
     aero-propulsion industry to develop combustion technologies to
     reduce NOx emissions by 70% over the LTO cycle from 1996 ICAO
     standards with no increase in other emission constituents (carbon
     monoxide, smoke, and unburned hydrocarbons) and with comparable NOx
     reduction during cruise operations. As in the past, new combustor
     concepts and technologies will be required to produce cleaner
     burning combustors to offset the increased NOx produced by the
     future more fuel efficient engines with higher pressure ratios and
     temperatures.

     These new combustion concepts and technologies will include lean
     burning combustors with new advanced high temperature liners with
     reduced cooling air and possibly advanced controls. Low emissions
     combustor concepts will be developed and evaluated to achieve major
     reductions in NOx emissions for both large and regional subsonic
     engines without impacting operability for safety of flight,
     affordability, and maintainability. The levels of aerosols and
     particulates coming from these low emission combustors will be
     assessed and reduced, if possible.

     Also, revolutionary combustion concepts like active combustion
     controls and combustion from a large array of micro-injectors will
     be assessed and evaluated for far-term ultra-low levels of NOx
     reduction.

     This project will demonstrate, in a full annular combustor rig (TRL
     5), a low NOx combustor configuration which will provide at least a
     65% reduction of LTO NOx from the 1996 ICAO level and reduced levels
     of aerosol and particulates, if possible, in a large subsonic engine
     with a 55:1 and 30:1 pressure ratio respectively. Combustion design
     codes will be developed and validated that will reduce development
     time of future low-emission combustors.

   Back to technology areas index

Highly Loaded Turbomachinery

     The Highly Loaded Turbomachinery Project addresses the efficiency
     and fuel burn goals of the UEET program. It will provide
     flow-controlled turbomachinery technology for the increased UEET
     cycle pressure ratios and component performance that enable fuel
     burn reductions of up to 15% for large subsonic transports and 8%
     for supersonic and small aircraft.

     This project will develop technologies for lighter-weight
     reduced-stage cores, low-pressure (LP) spools, and propulsors for
     high-performing, highly-efficient, and environmentally-compatible
     propulsion systems. Concepts for significantly increased aerodynamic
     loading of turbomachinery, trailing edge wake control, and
     incorporation of highly effective cooling will be developed and
     demonstrated through proof-of-concept tests. The technologies
     developed will be applicable to a broad range of applications, both
     in terms of flight speed and vehicle size class.

     Fan technology will be collaboratively worked with the Quiet
     Aircraft Technology (QAT) Program to ensure that fan aero
     performance and weight, and hence fuel burn, are not adversely
     impacted by low-noise technologies. The flow control concept
     assessed under this project will be elimination of trailing edge
     wake velocity deficit in a high-bypass, low-pressure ratio fan
     application. The goal will be to fill in the fan rotor wakes through
     trailing edge ejection, eliminating rotor wakes and thereby allowing
     the rotor-stator spacing in the fan stage to be decreased
     significantly.

     The UEET CFD-based analyses and assessment of the trailing edge
     blowing concept will be included with other QAT concepts in a
     downselect that determines a final UEET/QAT fan technology for
     hardware fabrication. A proof-of-concept rig test will be performed
     collaboratively with QAT to validate performance and noise goals.
     Aspirated technology performance benefit will also be assessed for a
     commercial subsonic fan application through CFD analysis. Fan
     technology development will reduce weight and increase efficiency
     while satisfying noise constraints.

     The core compressor activity within this project will apply CFD
     simulation to investigate and downselect a flow control concept that
     allows 25% greater suction surface diffusion employing less than 1%
     extracted mass flow. The selected flow control concept's capability
     for such high loading enhancement will be demonstrated through
     design and rig test of a two-stage proof-of-concept axial
     compressor. Inverse 3D design and advanced CFD simulation for better
     shock management and stage matching, together with blade tip/endwall
     flow management, are some of the technologies that will be applied.

     A multistage demonstration of ultra-high-loaded axial compressor
     technology will be accomplished through design and test of hardware
     with the goal of delivering 12:1 Pressure Ratio (PR) in four stages
     with 92% polytropic efficiency. Projected component weight saving of
     20% is also a goal. Demonstration of highly loaded technology for
     regional class engines will be performed in an axi (and/or
     mixed-flow)-centrifugal configuration through design and test of a
     minimum 12:1 PR in fewer than four stages with 90% polytropic
     efficiency.

     The turbine activity in this project addresses both the interaction
     issues of closely-coupled transonic high pressure (HP) turbines
     followed by low pressure (LP) stages, as well as higher-loading
     capability for the HP and LP stages, in order to increase engine
     efficiency and reduce weight. It seeks to develop higher-loading
     capability for the LP turbine and will demonstrate the technology in
     a single-stage proof-of-concept test. A single-stage 5.5 PR
     high-pressure turbine with stage efficiency of 90% will also be
     developed and demonstrated through rig testing.

     A close-coupled, high-loaded high pressure turbine/low pressure
     turbine system will be demonstrated through rig testing in a
     dual-spool test facility. The goals of the demonstration are a 50%
     increase in average stage loading, a 2-point increase in system
     efficiency, and a projected system weight reduction of 20%. A new
     dual-spool turbine facility (DSTF) is being designed to provide the
     required flow and UEET pressure ratio capabilities. UEET
     Program-direct funding will complete a 30% detailed design for DSTF
     at the end of FY01.

     This project will develop high-fidelity heat transfer prediction
     capability for detailed design analysis of double-wall, enhanced
     convection/impingement plus film cooling configurations. This
     project seeks to validate design tools necessary for advanced
     cooling schemes collaboratively with industry. The effort depends on
     industry to provide test data on advanced concept designs that will
     be used in validating a NASA-developed code (Glenn-HT). The Glenn-HT
     code will be available to industry and DoD to allow more rapid
     development and assessment of all types of cooling configurations.

     Physics-based modeling will also be performed to provide validated
     models of flow control, unsteady/aeroelastics, and average-passage
     effects that are needed to execute the various flow-controlled
     components within this UEET project. New codes will not be
     developed, but code enhancements and application to the UEET
     components will be pursued. CFD simulations with the physics-based
     models will be performed to understand the flow-control concepts and
     to design the component hardware for rig test demonstrations of fan,
     core compressor, and HP/LP turbine systems needed to reach
     Technology Readiness Level (TRL) 3 to 4.

     The flow-controlled concepts to be developed and evaluated in this
     UEET Project are radical departures from conventional turbomachinery
     and go beyond DoD's IHPTET Phase III program. The starting TRL is
     1-2 for this technology and is well beyond the level of risk that
     U.S. industry can accept in internal research and development
     efforts.

   Back to technology areas index

Engine Materials and Structures for High Performance

     The Materials and Structures for High Performance project will
     develop and demonstrate advanced high temperature materials and
     computational materials science tools to enable high-performance,
     high efficiency, and environmentally compatible propulsion systems.

     The material and structural technologies developed in this project
     will contribute toward achieving both primary UEET program goals-(1)
     landing and take-off NOx emissions reduction of 70% and (2) overall
     fuel savings of 8 - 15%. Technologies developed in this project
     include ceramic matrix composite (CMC) combustor liners and turbine
     vanes, advanced disk alloys, turbine airfoil material systems, high
     temperature polymer matrix composites (PMC), and innovative
     lightweight materials and structures for static engine structures.

     NOx reduction in advanced combustor concepts requires reducing
     combustor cooling levels by 10 to 15%, which results in higher
     combustor liner temperatures. Liner temperatures on the order of
     2700°F will be required. Current metallic liners are not capable of
     sustaining such high temperatures for commercial life. Ceramic
     matrix composite (CMC) systems with 2700°F temperature capability
     will initially be developed for low NOx combustor liners and turbine
     vanes. CMC turbine vanes with the same temperature capability will
     be required to achieve turbine inlet temperatures compatible with
     higher combustor exit temperatures. The feasibility of pushing CMC
     technologies to 3000&degF through revolutionary concepts will also
     be pursued. Advanced manufacturing techniques will be developed to
     fabricate complex vane structures. Long-term durability of liner and
     vane components will be demonstrated in rig tests.

     Achieving overall fuel savings of 8-15% requires increases in
     turbine inlet temperature and reducing engine weight. To address
     this goal, one advanced disk alloy will be evaluated for application
     in engines with an overall pressure ratio of 55:1 and 3200&degF
     turbine rotor inlet temperature. The project will also develop and
     demonstrate advanced thermal barrier coatings (TBC) that, combined
     with advanced cooling schemes, will enable 3200&degF turbine rotor
     inlet temperature capability. Advanced alloy development and the
     development of computational tools for the design of these future
     alloys, will further enable attainment of these goals. At the
     conclusion of the program, the durability of turbine blade systems
     with advanced TBC and state-of-the-art blade alloys will be
     demonstrated in rig tests.

     Innovative lightweight materials and structural concepts will be
     developed to reduce the weight of engine static structures to
     contribute toward overall fuel savings. Although the advanced
     lightweight concepts can be applied to several engine components,
     the project will focus on reducing the weight of a supersonic
     exhaust nozzle, with concepts demonstrated in sub-scale nozzle rig
     tests.

   Back to technology areas index

Propulsion-Airframe Integration

     The Propulsion-Airframe Integration (PAI) Project of the UEET
     Program will reduce aircraft CO2 emissions to yield lower drag
     propulsion system integration with the airframe for a wide range of
     vehicle classes. Lowering drag improves air vehicle performance and
     efficiency, which reduces fuel burn to accomplish a particular
     mission, thereby reducing the CO2 emissions. Each percent reduction
     in aircraft fuel burn corresponds to an equal percent reduction in
     aircraft CO2 emissions. The PAI Project technologies will contribute
     to the UEET Program goals of a 15% CO2 emission reduction for large
     subsonic jet transport aircraft, and as much as 8% CO2 emission
     reduction for supersonic and/or small aircraft.

     Propulsion airframe integration can be defined as the determination
     of optimum nacelle placement and optimum shaping to both the nacelle
     and the airframe to minimize aerodynamic drag. In the UEET/PAI
     Project, this traditional definition of PAI is expanded to include
     the development of highly efficient S-inlets forward of the fan, and
     the development of variable area nozzles aft of the fan. Project
     technologies are developed utilizing both computational and
     experimental approaches.

     Conceptual-level NASA systems studies have determined that advanced
     propulsion technology can reduce CO2 emissions by 19% relative to
     1997 technology in the fleet for large conventional transonic jet
     transports. This assessment is based on projections of year 2020
     technology in the air transport fleet. For the aerodynamic
     integration of this advanced propulsion technology with the
     airframe, the most difficult challenges arise from the large
     diameter of very high bypass ratio engines. Current propulsion
     technology in the fleet features a bypass ratio of approximately 9
     (GE90 turbofan engine) or less. Within 1 to 2 decades, future
     commercial jet transport aircraft are expected to have turbofan
     engines with bypass ratios as high as 15. The PAI Project will
     develop advanced propulsion integration technologies that enable the
     successful integration of very high bypass ratio turbofan engines
     (bypass ratio > 9) with conventional transonic jet transports. The
     specific technologies are advanced unstructured grid CFD-based
     design methods for the complete airframe and nacelle, active shape
     control of a variable area fan nozzle, and active shape control of a
     variable radius nacelle leading edge.

     The PAI Project will also develop technologies that are enabling to
     unconventional configurations with novel PAI challenges.
     Conceptual-level NASA systems studies have identified substantial
     benefits of the Blended Wing Body (BWB) configuration relative to
     the best conventional jet transports with the same technologies. For
     the year 2020 technology in service, the BWB configuration with
     boundary layer ingestion nacelles reduces fuel burn and CO2
     emissions by 28% compared to the same technology conventional jet
     transport. The PAI Project will develop advanced propulsion
     integration technologies that potentially enable the commercial
     development of the Blended Wing Body with boundary layer ingesting
     nacelles. This BWB configuration also features internal S-inlets
     that further degrade flow quality to the engine. The specific
     technologies are advanced unstructured grid CFD-based design methods
     for the airframe and nacelles, and active flow control applied to
     boundary layer ingesting S-inlets.

     While the PAI technologies are developed for a class of aircraft
     that fall within the Global Civil Aviation system, these
     technologies are applicable to a wide range of vehicle classes. The
     advanced CFD design technologies will benefit all classes of
     vehicles from General Aviation to military to supersonic transports
     to access to space vehicles. Also, S-inlets in various forms and
     boundary layer ingestion into the inlet also are characteristics of
     some advanced military concepts and airbreathing access to space
     vehicles.

   Back to technology area index

Intelligent Propulsion Controls

     Intelligent propulsion controls provide a critical part of the
     foundation for future air transportation that could include
     gathering airframe/propulsion system intelligence, transmitting the
     intelligence to ground stations via globally-positioned satellites,
     and processing the intelligence toward improved engine hardware
     maintenance and increased aircraft flight safety. Both commercial
     and military aircraft are expected to benefit.

     The IPC Project began in FY00 and continues through FY05. The
     project will develop enabling technology for intelligent control of
     aircraft turbine engines. Some of the enabled engine design features
     include reduced-stage and lighter-weight high-pressure cores and
     low-pressure turbines, higher-efficiency and environmentally
     compatible fans, adaptation of changing engine design
     characteristics without human intervention, and continuous
     communications on hardware health and engine operability to both
     aircraft and ground-based systems.

     The project will enable exploitation of electro-mechanical control
     concepts that allow engines to operate beyond the limits of usual
     aerodynamic and structural designs. Examples include reduced design
     margins through micro adaptive flow control in the inlet, airflow
     ducts, and on airfoils; efficiency improvements through active
     clearance control; and reduced pattern factor, reduced emissions,
     and elimination of combustion instabilities through active combustor
     control.

     Intelligent propulsion control technology will be demonstrated in
     bench tests, component rig tests, and engine system ground tests,
     with some flight system tests expected. Simulations of control-based
     components and engines will be performed using validated
     physics-based models, and they will support initial tests of control
     logic leading to achievement of Technology Readiness Levels (TRL)
     4-6.

     The Intelligent Propulsion Controls Project builds upon pertinent
     work that began under the Advanced Subsonic Technology Program, High
     Speed Research Program, Aerospace Propulsion and Power Base Program,
     and Glennan Microsystems Initiative. Even so, the IPC Project is
     still largely a new, revolutionary start toward exploring and
     developing intelligent propulsion controls to realize otherwise
     unattainable gains. It will provide control technologies for
     increased performance that enable fuel burn reduction of up to
     15-percent, with subsequent CO2 emission reduction. Active combustor
     control could achieve a double benefit of reduced NOx emissions and
     reduced fuel burn, due to reduced turbine cooling requirements
     stemming from lower combustor pattern factor.

     The technology developed by the project will benefit a wide-range of
     aircraft applications, in terms of types, sizes, and flight speeds.
     In addition, both stationary and marine gas turbine-based power
     generation could benefit from intelligence and controls technology.

     Project success will require strong involvement from both aircraft
     turbine engine manufacturers and their support industries, like fuel
     injection system manufacturers, for implementation and transfer into
     aerospace systems. Success will also depend on significant support
     from government research laboratories, especially those of NASA, and
     from academia.

     The ultimate success of the project will depend upon the durability,
     reliability, availability, and affordability of required sensors and
     actuators. While such dependencies are beyond the role of government
     support, their critical importance will be uppermost in guiding
     discussions and decisions toward eventual payoffs on the government
     investment. For instance, the Propulsion Instrumentation Working
     Group along with potential vendors may be asked to offer their views
     toward reality as IPC technology is planned and developed. Reality
     stems from answers to questions like: " Can it be made to be
     reliable and affordable?"

     The Intelligent Propulsion Controls Project will develop
     intelligence technology for aircraft turbine engines, specifically,
     turbomachinery and combustor components, engine system-level
     controls, health monitoring, and flight safety. Such technology is
     exemplified by sensors, actuators, control logic/systems, and
     propulsion system integration.

   Back to technology areas index

Integrated Component Technology Demonstrations

     The technology readiness level (TRL) concept (figure 3) is a central
     consideration in NASA's Aerospace Technology Enterprise programs. As
     previously indicated, the span of coverage for the UEET Program is
     nominally 3-5. TRL 5 technology validation tests of advanced
     components (e.g. combustion, compressor, turbine) will constitute
     key outputs of the UEET Program. However, TRL 6 technology
     demonstration tests are a critical step in the technology
     development process. These tests provide for significant amount of
     risk reduction by demonstrating that the technologies are still
     viable when integrated into an overall system. The results of these
     tests provide the necessary confidence to the aeropropulsion
     industry to incorporate the technologies in follow-on product
     insertion programs.

     The initial efforts in this project will focus on determining the
     most attractive, cost-effective approaches to conducting the needed
     tests which are called Integrated Component Technology
     Demonstrations (ICTD). Many potential opportunities exist for NASA
     and DoD to collaborate on the ICTD tests through partnership efforts
     between the UEET and Integrated High Performance Turbine Engine
     Technology (IHPTET) programs. In addition, potential partnership
     efforts with the U.S. aeropropulsion industry are being evaluated.
     In all cases, it is most desirable to make maximum use of existing
     engine hardware to allow for the most cost-effective tests.

     As an example, two ICTD tests are currently planned to be performed
     in partnership with industry. A demonstration test will be conducted
     of a 2200&degF Ceramic Matrix Composite (CMC) combustor liner in a
     commercial engine test bed. This test will demonstrate the viability
     of a CMC liner for commercial engine applications. The test will
     also provide valuable validation data for probabilistic analysis
     codes being developed as part of the UEET Program. The CMC material
     to be used in this test was developed in the High Speed Research
     (HSR) Program, and it provides the basis for developing the
     2400&degF CMC material in the UEET Program.

     A second engine validation test will be conducted to demonstrate the
     viability of aspirating seal technology developed in the Advanced
     Subsonic Technology (AST) Program. This technology, once
     demonstrated, is projected to have a significant positive impact on
     fuel burn reduction of future engine designs. Again, this test will
     be done in partnership with U.S. industry using an existing engine
     test bed to minimize cost. Also, the test will provide useful
     computer code validation data for use by NASA researchers.

   Back to technology areas index
     __________________________________________________________________

      Home | Overview | Technology Areas | Engines 101 | Status/News |
                                   Gallery

                          Last Updated: 03-Apr-2001

                      For Program Information Contact:
                             Dr. Robert J. Shaw
                  NASA Glenn Research Center At Lewis Field
                        For Web Information Contact:
                                UEET Web Team
