http://www.chicago.feb.gov/snap.htm

   Shared

   Neutrals

   Adr Program

   "Resolving Conflicts Through Mediation

   "
   SNAP" in a snap

   T
   he Chicago Federal Executive Board (FEB) sponsors the Shared Neutrals
   ADR Program (SNAP) through the SNAP Committee, a formal committee of
   the FEB, in an effort to facilitate the use of Alternative Dispute
   Resolution (ADR), specifically mediation, among federal agencies.
   Shared services may also have the benefits of reducing costs and
   increasing objectivity by using mediators not employed by the agency in
   which the issue to be mediated has taken place. The SNAP Committee will
   create and monitor a roster of mediators. Oversight for the Program
   lies with the SNAP Committee of the FEB.


   Responsibilities of the
   SNAP Committee

   T
   he SNAP Committee is the governing body for the Shared Neutrals ADR
   Program. Members will be appointed by the FEB and will operate in
   accordance with applicable regulations and by-laws of the FEB.
   Responsibilities include review and supervision of the Roster, case
   intake, data collection and analysis, outreach (making sure people
   understand the program is available), systems analysis (continually
   improving the structure of the Program), program development, mediator
   education, and quality assurance reviews.


   Scope

   M
   ediation services offered by SNAP shall be available to all member
   organizations of the Chicago FEB and its Federal Executive Association
   partners.

   M
   ediators from the Roster may mediate anywhere participating agencies
   are located. The requesting agency is responsible for any travel costs
   associated with a requested mediation and providing any required
   logistical support.


   Types of Conflict/ Excluded Cases

   M
   ost of the Program's mediations are expected to be "internal" workplace
   mediations. (Internal means involving employees of the participating
   agency only.) The Program is also available for external and
   inter-agency mediations on a wide range of issues: contracts,
   environmental, etc. Agencies may choose to limit which types of cases
   they will refer to the Program. In addition, there are some cases that
   are not appropriate for mediation through this program, regardless of
   individual agency policy. The program only accepts cases:

   [spibul1a.gif]

   which are expected to require fewer than 24 hours (the vast majority
   will require fewer than 24 hours);
   [spibul1a.gif]

   where the parties sign the mediation agreement; and
   [spibul1a.gif]

   not involving criminal activity.


   The Process

   W
   hen all parties within an agency have agreed to utilize the Shared
   Neutrals ADR Program, and have signed the Agreement to Mediate, the
   Agency Liaison will contact the SNAP Intake Coordinator by calling the
   toll-free SNAP Hotline (877-886-SNAP). The Intake Coordinator will
   obtain all the necessary information and will assign a mediator. The
   mediator will then contact the Agency Liaison to arrange a time and
   place for mediation. As needed, the Agency Liaison can provide
   necessary agency background. All information regarding the mediation is
   confidential. Please see the SNAP Handbook for further details on the
   process.

   The Roster

   T
   he primary mediator will be the case developer. The case developer is
   responsible for assessing the parties' needs. In some instances, the
   case developer may return the case and case development materials to
   the Intake Coordinator for reassignment.

                                Why Mediate?

                           Consider the following:

                Mediation    Formal Systems
                             Someone else create solutions decides
        Win/Win              Win/Lose
        Cooperative          Adversarial
        Builds Relationships Can damage Relationships
        Informal             Formal
        Quick                Drawn Out
        Voluntary            Enforced


   Agency Participation

   T
   o enter the Program, your agency must submit a letter to the SNAP
   Committee signed by the local agency head. The letter must contain the
   following:
    1. name and office phone number of your agency liaison who is
       authorized to request a SNAP            mediation,
    2. any type of case which your agency wishes to exclude from the
       program,
    3. specific forms that your agency wishes to use that differ from
       those included in the Handbook,
    4. any other specific requirements of your agency,
    5. and an explicit statement that no member of your agency will
       retaliate against any other member of your agency because of
       his/her decision to participate or withdraw from a SNAP mediation.


   N
   ote: All of the agency-specific requested items are subject to review
   and approval by the SNAP Committee. It is the responsibility of each
   agency to promptly notify the SNAP Committee of any change to their
   agency liaison and any requested agency-specific items not previously
   considered by the SNAP Committee.

   A
   team is available to explain the benefits of the Program to groups in
   agencies that are participating or considering participation.


   Requirements for Mediators / Case Developers

   T
   o gain membership in the Roster, under any capacity, an applicant must:
    1. be an employee or authorized volunteer of a participating agency,
    2. subscribe to the ethical standards in the Handbook,
    3. submit an application, to include the local agency head's
       signature,
    4. have completed at least 32 hours of a formal mediation program or
       comparable experience acceptable to the SNAP Committee,
    5. demonstrate ongoing participation and interest in mediation,
    6. have completed an orientation of the Program,
    7. and be interviewed and accepted by the initial panel or the SNAP
       Committee.



   For more information contact

   the SNAP in care of:

     Chicago Federal Executive Board
     230 South Dearborn Street
     Suite 3816
     Chicago, Illinois 60604

     Phone: (312) 353-6790
     FAX: (312) 353-3058

     Toll-Free Hotline: 877-886-SNAP

                        Snap Forms              Home
