http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/services.html

   [USEMAP:headservices.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                         VISION:
   Improve the Public's Access to Government Services
                     Full statement

            Story Archive

      Air Travelers One-Stop
      [airtravel.gif] Whether you travel by air a little or a lot, this
      Federal Aviation Administration site will make your trip better. Find
      out what to wear, what rules apply to carry-ons, how to transport the
      family pet, and what you need to know if you have a disability.
      International travelers will find links to U.S. Customs Service tips,
      State Department travel advisories, and health advisories from the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And before you start for
      the airport, check for flight delays.

      [toystotsphoto.jpg] Marines Use the Internet To Gather Toys for Tots In
      53rd Season of Giving
      Where do I take the toys? Can I write a check instead? Yes, Sir ! Click
      Here, Sir ! Hurry, Sir. This year's campaign ends on Dec. 22.

      Tracking Santa on the Holiday's Most Popular Site
      [santasplash.jpg] Children, you can follow Santa's progress as he makes
      his way from the North Pole to homes all over the globe. Your parents
      followed him, too, but they had only TV and radio bulletins. You have a
      six-language, multimedia site with digital animation, satellite/cockpit
      images, and audio reports thanks to the United States Air Force and the
      North American Aerospace Defense Command. You may also call (719)
      474-3980, 4 p.m. - midnight MST.

      [ahholiday.gif] The Smithsonian Celebrates the Holidays!
      The National Museum of American History is featuring a holiday
      marketplace with arts and crafts, food tasting, storytelling, music,
      dance, and daily piñata breaking. Watch master chefs and designers
      carve portraits of the presidents in ice and build a gingerbread White
      House! At the National Museum of Natural History, join the fun at the
      3-D Imax film: "Critique du Soleil Journey of Man," and try your hand
      at building a giant gingerbread Smithsonian Castle! Buy holiday gifts
      online.

      [shoppingtips.gif] Tips for Shopping Online
      This holiday season, no matter what you're in the market for -- the
      latest high-tech gadget, a rare antique or even the tree you'll put it
      under -- you're likely to find it online. But virtual shopping, like
      traditional shopping, isn't without risks. Here are some tips from the
      Federal Trade Commission to help you shop safely online.
