http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/news/index.cfm

   Polymer division banner


News of Polymers Division



New Support for Tissue Engineering

   graphic The Polymers Division, in collaboration with the Biotechnology
   Division, has received funding under the NIST competence building
   competition with a proposal entitled "Metrology for Tissue Engineering:
   Test Patterns and Cell Function Indicators." The proposal was one of
   two selected and was funded at $950K per year for five years.

   The proposal champions were Newell Washburn and Scott Kennedy, two NRC
   Postdoctoral Associates in the Polymers Division, and John Elliott
   (another NRC Postdoc) and Anne Plant from the Biotechnology Division of
   CSTL. The goal of this team and their collaborators is to develop novel
   measurement methodology for assessing cell-biomaterial interactions,
   including tailored surfaces that induce gene expression associated with
   specific stages in cellular activity, and engineered DNA vectors that
   signal these responses in adherent cells. Measurement tools such as
   these, and the standards they would enable, are needed as the
   developing tissue engineering industry validates new materials and
   assures the integrity of the cell lines they manipulate. Efficient
   methods and tested standards are also critical to the fundamental
   research that will lead to better understanding of factors controlling
   cell growth and differentiation.

   The NIST Competence program seeks to build new expertise in the
   laboratory by funding high risk, high payoff projects. After formal
   internal and external reviews of the 14 proposals submitted from across
   the NIST laboratories, and presentations by the six finalists, two
   proposals were selected for funding by NIST senior management. In her
   funding announcement, Acting NIST Director Karen Brown stated "I
   believe the two funded proposals best fulfill the Competence criteria,
   describing compelling new research directions, and demonstrating
   potential for substantial impact."

   Last year, the Polymers Division in collaboration with the Surface and
   Microanalysis Science Division of CSTL, also received competence
   funding to develop aspects of its new program in combinatorial methods
   for materials science. With the initiation of the Tissue Engineering
   project the Polymers Division takes another step forward in
   strengthening our research program in biomaterials and in support of an
   exciting new component of the health care industry.


Steve Hudson to Join NIST

   graphic We are pleased to announce that Dr. Steven D. Hudson will join
   the Polymers Division of NIST in August 2001.

   Dr. Hudson received his B.S. in Materials Science and Engineering at
   Cornell University and his Ph.D. with Edwin Thomas in Polymer Science
   and Engineering at the University of Massachusetts - Amherst. His
   postdoctoral work was at Bell Laboratories with Andrew Lovinger and
   Ronald Larson. For the past eight years Steve has been on the faculty
   in the Department of Macromolecular Science at Case Western Reserve
   University.

   Steve brings experimental expertise in transmission and scanning
   electron microscopy, optical microscopy, light and x-ray scattering,
   and processing visualization. His research focuses on liquid
   crystalline polymer composites, microstructure alignment, and polymer
   processing. At CWRU he directs the Microstructure Characterization
   Laboratory and in the Kent/CWRU/Akron NSF Center for Advanced Liquid
   Crystalline Optical Materials he co-directs the Heterogeneous
   Structures Project. Most recently Steve's interests have included
   interfacial activity of block copolymers, nanocomposite materials,
   supermolecular assemblies, and silk nanofibers.

   In addition to building projects in multiphase materials and processing
   characterization, Steve will further expand the division's expertise in
   characterization and imaging of polymer nanostructures and
   biomaterials.


Five New NRC Postdocs to Join Polymers Division

   Five Postdoctoral Research Associates will join the Polymers Division
   this Summer and Fall as a result of the 2001 NRC competition just
   completed. They are:

   Michelle Byrd - worked with Professor H. I. Kenttamaa at Purdue
   University. She will be working with Charles Guttman on MALDI mass
   spectrometry of polydispersed polymers.

   Scott Kennedy - worked with Professors Tom Russell and Dave Tirrell at
   the University of Massachusetts - Amherst. He will be working with Eric
   Amis on combinatorial methods for investigating surface topology and
   chemical patterning for biomaterials.

   Forrest Landis - worked with Professor Robert Moore at the University
   of Southern Mississippi. He will be working with Charles Han and
   Alamgir Karim on combinatorial analysis of melting-point depression in
   semi-crystalline polymer blends.

   Shen Lin-Gibson - worked with Professor Judy Riffle at Virginia
   Polytechnic Institute. She will be working with Charles Han and Gale
   Holmes on studies of interfacial interactions in composites and
   nanocomposites, and Shen will also be working with Bill Wallace and
   Barry Bauer on polyolefin mass spectrometry.

   Vivek Prabhu - worked with Professor M. Muthukumar at the University of
   Massachusetts - Amherst. He will be working with Wen-li Wu on polymer
   thin films for studies of chain dynamics in confined geometry.

   These five will join eight current NRC/NIST Research Associates and 30
   other guest researchers working in the Polymers Division. In addition
   to research with their primary advisor, postdoctoral associates in the
   Polymers Division often work on projects with other groups and make use
   of the facilities such as x-ray and neutron scattering or reflectivity
   at NIST, our beamlines at Brookhaven and the APS, and the NIST Center
   for Theoretical and Computational Materials Science. It is also
   increasingly common to develop collaborations with research groups at
   the National Institutes of Health.

   About the NRC/NIST Postdoctoral Associate Program

   Each year the National Research Council conducts a competition to
   assist NIST in selecting postdoctoral researchers who will join
   research groups throughout the NIST laboratories. Applications, which
   include an original research proposal prepared in collaboration with a
   NIST scientist, are received by January 15 each year and evaluated by
   panels set up by the National Research Council. NIST laboratories are
   able to make selections for two year term appointments from the
   candidates recommended by the NRC. Through the years the NRC/NIST
   postdoc program has brought many excellent young scientists through the
   Polymers Division who now hold positions in academic, industrial, and
   government laboratories, including NIST. Potential applicants who
   expect to graduate in 2002 are encouraged to contact possible advisors
   in the early Fall to discuss research topics and application
   procedures.

   More infomation on this event.









   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division
