http://dms.dot.gov/help/es_help.asp

                             [USEMAP:newdms.gif]
                            [USEMAP:newbar3.gif]

                      Electronic Submission Help & Guidelines

                    Unregistered AOL Users, please click here.


   [dot_orange.jpg]  User Registration
       The following steps describe how to become registered for sending
       Electronic Submissions (ES). It is not mandatory that you be a
       registered user in order to send DMS a document through Electronic
       Submission. However, we do encourage users to register in the event
       the DMS staff needs to contact you. Below you will see a sample of
       the ES Main Menu Page. If you are a first time user of the DMS
       Electronic Submission you will want to click on the "Register" link
       on the ES Main Menu Page.

   The ES Main Menu Page Sample

   The User Registration Page
       The User Registration Page Sample
        Submitter:
       The Submitter is the name of the person who is sending the document
       to the DMS. Fill out the indicated name fields (the ones with the
       are mandatory).
         Points of Contact:
       Please let the DMS staff know how to contact you, should it be
       necessary. At least one of the following must be filled in for a
       registered submission. It is important for DMS staff members to be
       able to contact the submitter if there are questions about your
       document.

   complete email address
       complete phone number, i.e. (202-555-1212)
       complete postal address

    User ID:
   This is the "name" you will use to access the registered user section
   of ES. You should choose a User ID that will be easy for you to
   remember. It must be at least six characters long and only consist of
   letters and numbers.

    Password:
   You also need to choose a Password. This should be easy for you to
   remember. It must be at least six characters long, only consist of
   letters and numbers, and contain at least one number. After you re-type
   the Password you will then be registered. PLEASE WRITE YOUR USER NAME
   AND PASSWORD DOWN FOR YOUR FUTURE REFERENCE. Once you have completed
   those steps, click on the Submit button at the bottom of the page to
   finish your registration.

   [dot_orange.jpg]  Document Submission Screen

   Document Submission Area
         Docket ID:
       This is the number assigned to a particular docket by the DOT staff
       ( ex. OST-99-1234). If you know the number fill it in here. If this
       is a Regulatory submission, the number will be referenced in the
       Federal Register Notice. If you do not know the number please leave
       it blank.
         Operating Administration:
       Click on the drop down arrow to get a list of the Operating
       Administrations of the DOT. Choose the appropriate administration,
       if unknown then click on Unknown. The drop-down list displays the
       acronym. The full name of the corresponding acronym is below:
        BTS - Bureau of Transportation Statistics
            FAA - Federal Aviation Administration
            FHWA - Federal Highway Administration
            FMCSA - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
            FRA - Federal Railroad Administration
            FTA - Federal Transit Administration
            MARAD - Maritime Administration
            NHTSA - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
            OMB - Office of Management and Budget
            OMCS - Office of Motor Carrier Safety
            OST - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
            RSPA - Research and Special Programs Administration
            SLSDC - St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
            USCG - United States Coast Guard
         Docket Type:
       Choose the docket type by clicking on the appropriate button

   Regulatory: These are matters concerning the regulations proposed or
       issued by the DOT, including such regulatory subjects as alcohol
       and drug testing procedures, seat belts, and air bags. This is the
       only method available for anonymous submissions.
       Adjudicatory: These are actions requiring departmental decisions
       such as proposed airline alliances. Adjudicatory filings often
       require a filing fee. You must be a registered user to take
       advantage of this selection. If you choose to submit as an
       unregistered user, this selection will not be available to you.

     Docket Existence:
   Choose the appropriate button. The options are unknown, does exist, or
   does not exist.

   Unknown - If you do not know whether a docket exists, choose the
       option.
       Does Exist - If you know that there is an actual docket in
       existence that pertains to the document you wish to submit.
       Does Not Exist - If you know that there is no docket which pertains
       to the document you wish to submit.

     Document Title:
   Enter the title of the document or comment you are submitting.

     Confidential:
   This feature is for future use. At this time confidential (secure)
   documents are not being accepted by DMS Web. All documents submitted
   will be made available for public use. If you click on the Yes button
   then an additional warning screen will appear explaining that DMS Web
   is not currently accepting secure submissions, and it will give you the
   opportunity to cancel the submission

     Document Submission Method:
   Choose the appropriate button

   Enter a comment: This option will take you to a screen where you will
       be able to type in a brief comment and an abstract (short summary)
       of that comment if desired. When done click on the Submit Button at
       the bottom of the page to send the comment.
       Attach a file: This option will take you to a screen where you will
       be able to upload a previously completed document from your own
       computer. You may also enter abstract (short summary) of that
       document if desired. When done click on the Submit Button at the
       bottom of the page to send the file.

   When you have entered the necessary information click on Submit Button
   at the bottom of the page to go to the next step or Cancel to end the
   process.

   [dot_orange.jpg]  Submitting a Comment or File

   You have the option of submitting either a comment or a file. When you
   have completed typing the comment or the file upload click on the
   Submit button. If your document was received successfully you will
   receive a Confirmation Page with a message at the top of the page
   acknowledging that your submission was received similar to the example
   below:

   Your document submission was received at 23-SEP-1998 09:16:27 AM.
       Please note that it is still pending formal acceptance by the DOT
       docket staff.

   If this message does not appear then your document was not received and
   you should resubmit it. Click on the Acknowledge button to indicate
   that you have been notified that the document was received and you will
   be returned to the DMS Web Main Menu. If your document is received
   after the close of normal business hours (5PM EST) then we will
   consider it as filed on the following business day. A document
   timestamped after 5PM EST is considered as filed the next business day.
   Once we have formally accepted and processed your document it will
   appear on the DMS Web for public viewing and may be accessed by
   searching on the docket number, document title, or other criteria.

   When submitting a comment or a file, please keep in mind that your
   submission may not be accepted during the formal acceptance process for
   any of the following reasons:

   The document does not relate to any DOT matter.
       The comment is late without a motion for acceptance.
       The file was not submitted in one of the six accepted formats.
       The document is in a language other than English unless
       specifically allowed by the DOT.Other reasons in accordance with
       DOT rules.

    Attaching a File:

   Files received by DMS Web are checked for viruses. If your file
   contains a virus the submission will be rejected.

   Your file may be rejected if it is excessively large. (20 MB or larger)

   You will not be able to upload a file if your browser does not support
   file uploading. Examples of browsers that support file uploading are
   Internet Explorer 4.0 and above and Netscape Navigator 4.0 and above.
   If you have questions about your particular browser please submit a
   Support Request.

   If you choose to upload a file then that page will provide you with the
   option of entering the path and file name of the document or browsing
   your computer's directory to find the designated file. You may also
   submit an abstract of the document. If you upload a file it must be in
   one of the following file format types: (Please note, MS Word and Corel
   WordPerfect in the list below are links to information regarding
   submission of these file types. If you are submitting either file type
   please follow the appropriate link below.)

   American Standard Code Information Interchange (ASCII)(TXT)
       MS Word (Versions 95-97)
       MS Word for Mac (Versions 6-8)
       Portable Document Format (PDF)
       Tagged Image File Format (TIF)
       Rich Text File (RTF)
       Word Perfect (WPD) (Versions 7-8)

                            [USEMAP:newbar3.gif]

                             DMS2000 02/25/2000
