http://www.boston.feb.gov/newfeb/2000report.PDF

   Greater Boston Federal Executive Board FY 2000 Annual Report Theme 1:
   Communicate One of the most unique aspects of the GBFEB Board of
   Directors is that Chair Bob Dunfey and Vice Chair Diane LeBlanc were
   re-elected by their peers to serve in the leadership positions for a
   sixth consecutive one year term. This was the first time in GBFEB
   history that a team was re-elected AND more than once. In addition,
   Dunfey, a Clinton appointee and LeBlanc, a longtime civilian employee,
   were recognized by the American Society for Public Administration's
   Massachusetts Chapter as Public Administrators of the Year for their
   effective collaborative leadership throughout their tenure. The
   commitment and support of this leadership team and the entire GBFEB
   Board of Directors helped the GBFEB reach new heights last year. The
   Board of Directors showed unprecedented dedication to serving the needs
   of the local Federal community at-large. Several new agencies were
   elected to the Board of Directors for the first time in 2000, including
   the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, USS CONSTITUTION and the U.S. Army Corps of
   Engineers. The GBFEB operated six standing committees, each addressing
   a particular issues or causes of benefit and interest to the entire
   Federal community. The entire GBFEB Board of Directors deserves special
   recognition for their support this year. Chair Bob Dunfey and Vice
   Chair Diane LeBlanc continued to take an active and personal role with
   promotion of the GBFEB and its programs. As a team, they met with each
   newly appointed agency head and provided a briefing on FEB activities.
   This effort saw marked success with many more agency heads active than
   ever before. The GBFEB continued to strongly support the National
   Partnership for Reinventing Government (NPR) initiatives. In March
   1999, the NPR named Greater Boston as a Hassle Free Community. Led by
   GBFEB Executive Director Kim Ainsworth, 1 interagency partnerships were
   developed to provide cross-government services to American citizens.
   The GBFEB was actively engaged with the development of the initiative
   nationally. The GBFEB, in partnership with GSA New England, launched
   electronic government kiosks in three New England sites. Aimed at
   providing electronic access to a wide range of Federal, state and local
   government services, we worked with our local congressional delegation
   to identify areas that would benefit most. WALMART in Bangor, Maine;
   Chapel Square Mall in New Haven, Connecticut and the Hi Lo Supermarket
   in New Bedford, Massachusetts served as active partners for this unique
   program and continue to offer use of their commercial space rent-free.
   There were many success stories in 1999-2000. Several local agencies
   were recognized with Vice President Gore's Hammer Award through
   nominations presented by the Greater Boston Federal Executive Board.
   The GBFEB hosted its second annual cross-agency "Briefing for
   Congressional Staff" at New United States Courthouse in March 2000. The
   program's intent was to provide congressional staff members of all
   levels and expertise with a broad knowledge of individual agency
   mission and goals as well as their latest initiatives. Although many
   agencies often host individual issue-related briefings, our program
   additionally provided a unique networking opportunity with senior
   Federal executives. This helped open the lines of communication and
   allowed staff to provide constituent feedback. Topics included a timely
   question and answer session featuring CENSUS Regional Director Arthur
   Dukakis and a panel discussion with several "high-impact" agency
   executives including VA, INS, HCFA and the Passport Agency. As a
   result, the GBFEB Executive Director developed active working
   relationships with the local congressional staff members and the GBFEB
   has grown to serve as a single point of contact of sorts for executive
   branch information. Based on feedback from congressional staff members,
   the GBFEB hosted a private briefing and tour of Boston's BIG DIG in the
   summer of 2000. The largest engineering project in United States
   history, the BIG DIG draws many constituent inquiries and complaints
   and affects all Massachusetts residents. The tour provided staff with a
   unique opportunity to review its progress first hand. Federal Highway
   Administration's Regional Director Stan Gee co-sponsored the tour with
   the GBFEB to provide the latest funding and timeline information. The
   GBFEB hosted a number of events commemorating Public Service
   Recognition Week during the first week in May 2000. The GBFEB, in
   partnership with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Federal Employee program,
   hosted the third annual "Good Morning and Thank You Federal Employee
   Days" in several Federal sites, including the two largest Federal
   buildings. The National Park Service's Terry Savage chaired 2 the
   committee and his staff strongly supported the events. GBFEB Chair Bob
   Dunfey and Vice Chair Diane LeBlanc and several members and senior
   agency managers greeted employees with morning refreshments and a
   "thank you for your hard work" handshake upon arrival to work. We also
   sponsored free raffles for Federal employees featuring items such as
   patriotic teddy bears, t-shirts and coffee mugs. The events were very
   well received and reached an estimated 1000 employees throughout the
   week. The PSRW committee also developed a standard t presentation to
   deliver to area elementary and grammar schools. It contained unique and
   important facts about the Federal government as an employer and public
   service on the whole. It was used as an education tool throughout the
   week. The GBFEB continued to recognize excellence in Federal service by
   sponsoring two major inter-agency awards programs. A record 1,100
   Federal employees were in attendance for the Support Personnel Awards
   Program in April 2000. This program recognized outstanding Federal
   support personnel for their exemplary service to the Federal
   government. The event was held at Boston's Park Plaza Hotel and
   featured stress-humorist Carol Ann Small and Massachusetts State Police
   Sargent Dan Clark. The GBFEB culminated Public Service Recognition Week
   with the 26th annual Excellence in Government Awards Program at the JFK
   Library and Museum. This program recognized the "best and the
   brightest" in local Federal service in 14 categories. This event also
   recognized two non-federal employees for their local contributions and
   commitment to public service. The 4th annual Senator Paul Tsongas Award
   for Exemplary Community Service was presented to the Worcester,
   Massachusetts Fire Department. In December 1999, the lives of six
   firefighters were lost in the line of duty during a much-publicized
   warehouse fire. Ten members of the Fire Department, including Chief
   Dennis Budd and Worcester's City Manager accepted the award. The
   twelfth annual Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Award for Exemplary
   Public Service was presented posthumously to Senator John H. Chaffe for
   his unprecedented service to the United States as a veteran of several
   wars, longtime United States Senator and chief sponsor of
   nationally-renowned environmental legislation. Senator Chaffe's eldest
   son Zachary, an Assistant United States Attorney in the State of Rhode
   Island, accepted on behalf of the family. Both the Tsongas and O'Neill
   families were on hand. The event as covered by the local TV news. The
   GBFEB continued to act as a clearinghouse for the widespread
   communication among Federal agencies locally. In FY 2000, the GBFEB
   continued to distribute a monthly newsletter to replace the usual "mass
   mailings." Entitled THE COMMUNICATOR, the newsletter is a condensed,
   easy-to-read, low cost information source that is distributed both
   electronically and via U.S. mail to scores of Federal employees. It
   provided the latest information on national and local initiatives, 3
   highlighted agency successes, and featured program announcements.
   Feedback about this mechanism was extremely positive. GSA's Federal
   Technology Service continued to serve as host for the GBFEB web site
   that featured links to local Federal web sites, latest program
   announcements, and GBFEB memorandums. The site also featured
   announcements geared towards keeping the local Federal community
   at-large informed. The GBFEB's broadcast fax capability also offered
   the Federal community quick and easy access to time sensitive
   information. The GBFEB also maintained a comprehensive electronic mail
   directory that served as a vital tool for widespread communication
   among agencies. The GBFEB continued to widely promote Federal programs
   and initiatives of interest offered via satellite downlink, including
   Vice President Gore's Lifelong Learning telecast, several OPM's HR
   forums and HHS initiatives. The GBFEB continually submitted press
   releases to local newspapers and government periodicals in an effort to
   bring attention to the good work of Federal agencies and to keep the
   public informed about special events and government programs. Theme 2:
   Reduce Costs and Improve Efficiency Boston is certainly an exciting
   city and well known for its limited number of available hotel rooms,
   particularly within the government per diem rate ($192.00.) Formed in
   1998, our Per Diem Working Group continued to partner with GSA's Office
   of Transportation and Travel Policy to identify problem areas and
   common traveler complaints. The GBFEB hosted several forums featuring
   GSA's top travel authorities and provided essential feedback for the
   rate-setting process. In January 2000, GSA Deputy Administrator Becky
   Rhodes launched the first-of-its- kind Premier Lodging Program in
   Boston. This unique partnership of the GBFEB, GSA and the U.S.
   Department of Army, contracted with eight local hotels to guarantee the
   government-rate year round. The Team worked in concert with the hotel
   managers to offer a creative solution to ongoing problems. Boston's PLP
   served as the model and "work in progress" for more than 75 more to be
   developed across the country. With Postmaster of Boston Mike Powers
   serving as Chair, the Combined Federal Campaign saw a dramatic upswing
   in FY00. The upwards of 32,000 Federal (civilian, military, postal)
   employees contributed more than $1.9 million to local and national
   charities, a remarkable increase from $1.78 million in 1999. The PCFO,
   the 4 Charitable Campaign Coalition, under the direction of the Local
   Federal Coordinating Committee (LFCC,) hosted the fourth annual Fun
   Walk / Road Race as well as the fourth annual Golf Tournament,
   respectively, to benefit the Massachusetts Bay Combined Federal
   Campaign. Both successfully raised CFC awareness and increased the
   "spirit" of giving. EPA's Stephen Perkins took on the leadership of the
   LFCC in 2000. In its fourth year in existence, the GBFEB's Unified
   Diversity Committee once again outdid themselves. Chaired by Social
   Security Administration Regional Director Manuel Vaz and consisting of
   Federal employees from a host of local agencies across Massachusetts,
   the Committee again sponsored "Diversity Day" in June 2000. The event
   featured a variety of speakers, ethnic foods and entertainment and drew
   more than 300 Federal employees. The GBFEB became actively engaged
   early in 2000 with several LOCALITY PAY efforts in Massachusetts.
   Specifically, two Massachusetts towns were adversely impacted with the
   announcement of plans to include the state of Rhode Island in Boston's
   Metropolitan Statistical Area. The GBFEB took the lead on the effort to
   repair that inequity. We successfully outlined the problem to both our
   congressional members and the Federal Salary Council. As a direct
   result or our efforts, Attleboro and Fall River, Massachusetts were
   added to the proposal effective January 2001. Two additional areas
   within Massachusetts have since expressed interest in involving the
   GBFEB in similar efforts. The GBFEB supported special emphasis programs
   throughout the year. Some were educational, others informational and
   offered extensive training and development for Federal employees.
   Mainly sponsored during the lunch hour and funded by individual
   agencies, the GBFEB provided logistical advice and promotion. Vice
   Chair Diane LeBlanc participated as a head table guest in the Minority
   Business Development Agency's "Minority Enterprise Development Week"
   celebration in September 2000. During Adoption month in November 1999,
   the GBFEB sponsored a series of Adoption and Foster Care Lunch and
   Learn sessions in several Federal sites featuring speakers from the
   Massachusetts Department of Social Services. Representatives spoke
   about the crucial need for foster and adoptive parents nationwide.
   Federal employees were also able to complete applications on site. With
   now a two-year history, we know of several successful adoptions by
   Federal employees as direct result of these fairs. Domestic Violence
   continued to be an issue of importance among Federal agencies.
   Alongside the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, GBFEB staff
   served 5 on an ad hoc working group aimed at educating the Federal
   community about domestic violence both at work and at home. For the
   second year, this group sponsored a series of Domestic Violence
   Training Programs across New England. The national Silent Witness
   Display was also featured in major Federal sites during Domestic
   Violence Awareness Month. The Shared Neutrals Pilot Project really took
   shape during FY 2000. After a full year of research and technical
   development, the program recruited and interviewed more than two dozen
   volunteer mediators from a variety of Federal agencies. The program
   actively assisted with a dozen Federal disputes by offering a low-cost
   alternative for mediation services. This cost avoidance ultimately
   saved significant taxpayer dollars. Once again our most successful
   program was the annual pre-retirement seminar. More than 300 Federal
   employees representing 3 dozen agencies took advantage of this low cost
   day-long seminar that provided valuable financial planning and tax
   information for both CSRS and FERS employees. The National Archives and
   Records Administration took the lead on the event that featured
   consultant Steve Marder. Vice Chair Diane LeBlanc addressed the 28 FEB
   Executive Directors at the 2000 annual conference to discuss FEB record
   keeping. Although FEBs are a branch of OPM, there has not been a
   uniform record schedule or other standards in place for FEB records.
   Several FEBs expressed interest in developing uniform standards and
   properly documenting activities for future preservation. The Boston
   made significant progress with NARA's assistance. Ms. LeBlanc pledged
   NARA's full support. Her team continues to work with OPM to develop an
   appropriate record schedule. In January 2000, the GBFEB partnered with
   the American Society for Public Administration's Massachusetts Chapter
   to host Massachusetts Lieutenant Governor Jane Swift for a Family
   Friendly Work initiatives briefing. Both Executive Director Kim
   Ainsworth and Vice Chair Diane LeBlanc served on ASPA's local chapter
   council in an effort to better reach out to our state and local
   counterparts. Theme 3: Facilitate Service Delivery The GBFEB continued
   to promote itself as a user-friendly source of government information,
   whether it is to the Federal customer or the American people. We
   facilitated the delivery of services by serving as a single point of
   contact for government information. 6 White House initiatives continued
   to be a priority for the Federal Executive Board. Our White House
   Initiatives Committee continued to be the chief overseer of those
   national initiatives. We acted as a clearinghouse for information and
   ensured that we remained current. During summer 2000, two local
   congressional offices requested our assistance to reach out to key
   Federal agencies concerning a local economic development project.
   Entitled Telecom City, the leadership team, including the Mayors of the
   Cities of Everett, Malden and Medford, Massachusetts briefed officials
   from more than a dozen agencies in a forum sponsored by the GBFEB. We
   were able to successfully coordinate this agency-wide briefing in a
   short period of time, saving a lot of time and money on both ends. The
   GBFEB's Hammer Award winning Computer Donation Program, developed four
   years ago in accordance with EO 12999, continued to donate excess
   computer equipment to schools and educational non-profit organizations
   across New England. Because technology has been evolving so rapidly, it
   was often difficult to excess older computer equipment. As a result,
   the GBFEB forged alliances with several non- profit recycling and
   vocational technical programs to upgrade and repair equipment at no
   cost. In March 1999, Massachusetts became the first state to require
   recycling of computer equipment; particularly CATHODE RAY TUBES
   associated with computer monitors. The GBFEB sponsored a briefing on
   the new legislation and worked with EPA to develop a long- range plan.
   This included information on recycling programs across the state and
   disposal cost estimates. The Greater Boston Federal Executive Board was
   one of the chief sponsors of a Reinvention Lab focusing on After School
   Programs for children. Partnering with the City of Boston's 2:00  6:00
   initiative, nationally-renowned Parents United for Child Care, and City
   Year and working closely with the NPR staff, the GBFEB hosted one of
   the largest public / private forums addressing this issue in November
   2000. As a result of our efforts, cities across the country began
   partnering with state and local governments to explore the increasing
   need for funding of such programs. In FY 00, Boston was mentioned in a
   major announcement by Vice President Gore as among the first to host a
   unique "Federal Resources Fair" to share information with after school
   providers. More than 300 after school providers and youth workers
   attended the event featuring remarks by Boston Mayor Tom Menino and
   NPR's national project manager Pam Johnson. Approximately 20 Federal
   agencies and their state, local and non-profit partners exhibited. 7
   The GBFEB encouraged Federal agencies to share resources for the common
   good in an effort to save taxpayer dollars. For example, many agencies
   sponsored training programs on such things as ethics and management
   skills. When there were additional spaces available, the GBFEB promoted
   the vacancies so that other agencies were able to send staff at no
   cost. We saw a number of successful partnerships developed this year as
   a result. The GBFEB hosted several successful training programs
   beneficial to the Federal community at-large. In May 2000, we enlisted
   OSHA and DOL's Office of Worker's Compensation to brief Federal
   manager's and supervisors on their FEDERAL WORKER 2000 initiative. It
   was widely popular. We also sponsored GSA's central office for a
   briefing for the Federal community on some major changes in the Federal
   Travel Regulations, including conference amendments. In August 2000, we
   brought in United States Special Counsel Elaine Kaplan to conduct a
   Hatch Act briefing for Federal employees of all levels, including union
   officials. The GBFEB web page has designed links to some of the most
   important government internet sites in hopes of providing easy access
   to the most important services. The GBFEB continued to promote energy
   and resource conservation. We partnered with both GSA for the PLANET
   GSA initiative and with EPA for its TREAD LIGHTLY program in efforts to
   reduce the environmental footprint of Federal employees locally. In
   November 2000, the GBFEB prepared an interagency Memorandum of
   Understanding outlining what local Federal agencies can and have done
   in the Federal workplace to support the preservation of our
   environment. Initiatives ranged from developing telework guidelines to
   offering transit subsidies. The GBFEB maintained close working
   relationships with several associate members, including the five New
   England Federal Executive Associations, the New England Federal
   Personnel Council, the Massachusetts Chapter of the American Society
   for Public Administration, and the National Association of Retired
   Federal Employees. We actively supported programs and shared
   information on widespread matters of interest, including the most
   recent policies, programs and regulations of the Director, U.S. Office
   of Personnel Management. The GBFEB continued to support the ongoing
   training and development of Federal employees of all ranks and
   professions. GBFEB staff hosted a Women's Executive Leadership
   participant for a 30-day detail during the summer 2000. The candidate
   worked on the promotion and development of the Shared Neutrals Program.
   8 For the fourth consecutive year, the GBFEB hosted, in partnership
   with OPM, month long Presidential Management Intern Assessment Centers
   in February 2000. Not only did GBFEB staff recruit and schedule all
   panelists, but provided full logistical support and participated as
   panelists as needed. The GBFEB continued to promote public service as a
   proud and noble profession by providing briefings to local college
   students. Executive Director Kim Ainsworth participated in panel
   discussions for potential PMI's at both Harvard University's Kennedy
   School of Government and Northeastern University. The GBFEB was also
   actively engaged for the third consecutive year with the IRISH LEADERS
   FOR TOMORROW PROGRAM. We helped facilitate detail and educational
   opportunities for approximately 36 Irish government executives from
   both Republics of Ireland. This year we took an even more active role,
   sponsoring a lunch and learn series addressing a wide range of public
   policy initiatives and featuring high level speakers. The GBFEB
   coordinated a one day Federal Day for Suffolk University Graduate
   Students featuring several Federal executives discussing their career
   paths and agency missions. A Bangor, Maine WALMART store was the venue
   for the launch of New England's first electronic government kiosk in
   September 2000. The event featured Maine Governor Angus King and NPR
   Director Morley Winograd, each discussing Federal and state electronic
   government initiatives. Statistics indicated that this kiosk assisted
   more than 2000 customers in just the first four months of installment.
   Several media outlets covered the event. New Bedford, Massachusetts' HI
   LO SUPERMARKET hosted the second kiosk launch featuring Congressman
   Barney Frank. This site also serviced several thousand customers in its
   first few months. The store's top management has included hassle free
   government information in their promotional and marketing materials.
   Finally, New Haven, Connecticut Mayor John DeStefano and
   representatives from Congresswoman Rosa Delauro and Senator Joseph
   Lieberman's staff helped us launch New England's third and last kiosk
   at the Chapel Square Mall. New Haven was selected because of its EZ /
   EC designation and the constituency groups served. In October 2000, the
   GBFEB and several Federal agencies participated in a two-day Disability
   Job Fair sponsored by the President's Commission of Persons with
   Disabilities. The event was held in concert with a celebration of the
   tenth 9 anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act and drew
   more than 3,000 job seekers. Because some agencies could not afford
   exhibitor fees, the GBFEB purchased a table and hosted a variety of
   Federal agencies. Staff distributed Federal job and other pertinent
   information and answered candidate questions. Theme 4: Partner with
   Community Groups Another active GBFEB component was the Community
   Services Committee, under the leadership of the U.S. Department of
   Labor's Janis Carreiro. This committee established an ongoing
   relationship with several area high schools through the Boston Private
   Industry Council's Partnership Program. Federal employees from a
   variety of agencies participated in mentoring programs and provided
   other human resources for two local public high schools. A large number
   of Federal Executives also participated in Groundhog Shadowing Day in
   February. Junior High School students "shadowed" these executives for a
   day and learned the life of a public servant. Executive Director Kim
   Ainsworth served as an active member of the Board of Directors of the
   Academy of Public Service at Dorchester High School, another program
   facilitated by the Private Industry Council. Federal colleagues
   participated in academy projects, including providing speakers and
   offering summer and after school jobs for students interested in public
   service. The FEB became more actively involved with community projects
   with assistance from the PCFO of the Massachusetts Bay Combined Federal
   Campaign. Chair Bob Dunfey, Vice Chair Diane LeBlanc and CFC Chair Mike
   Powers attended ABCD's annual dinner representing the Federal community
   at-large. Led by our LFCC, the Combined Federal Campaign continued to
   serve as a successful and unified source of fundraising in our Federal
   workplace. Last year, $1.9 million was raised for local, national and
   international charities. The Federal Executive Board endorsed several
   in-kind drives throughout the year. The FEB was a major partner in the
   City of Boston's CAN SHARE FOOD DRIVE during the Thanksgiving season.
   And, during Christmas, with the US Secret Service serving as the lead
   agency, FEB members sponsored a government-wide Toys for Tots drive to
   benefit local families in need. The FEB's Hammer Award winning Computer
   Donation program benefited schools and students across New England by
   placing excess Federal computers in needy communities. 10 The GBFEB
   developed active partnerships with both the Greater Boston Chamber of
   Commerce and the New England Council to outreach to the business
   community. These organizations helped us to better educate an important
   constituency group about the latest Federal programs and initiatives
   relating to business. In August 2000, the GBFEB helped the Health Care
   Financing Administration coordinate a local celebration commemorating
   Medicare's 35th anniversary. For the first time, the GBFEB developed a
   strong relationship with the CITIZEN SCHOOLS after school program by
   serving as judges for several mock trial sessions. This unique program
   offers low-cost educational programs for youth in the after school
   hours. Theme 5: Coordinate Emergency Services The GBFEB operated with
   great success the local Emergency Weather Committee. With technical
   assistance of the First US Coast Guard District, long range forecast
   information provided by the National Weather Service and transportation
   addressed by the Federal Protective Service, the GBFEB operated a 24
   hour secure information line for local Federal agencies. A collective
   recommendation regarding safety was made and communicated to agency
   heads. A determination was then made by each agency as whether to open
   for business, etc. The GBFEB communicated that message to the media.
   The GBFEB promoted safety both at home and on the job through the
   program sponsorship and information distribution. . We provided
   information on FEMA's Project Impact, OPM's Workplace Violence Guide,
   OSHA's Federal Worker 2000 initiative and more. In June 2000, the GBFEB
   hosted a full board meeting featuring a panel discussion of Federal
   agencies involved in the SAILBOSTON events. Event coordinator Dusty
   Rhodes joined USS CONSTITUTION Commander William Foster and First US
   Coast Guard District Commander RADM George Naccara to brief the Federal
   community on the expectations of this world-renowned event. The GBFEB
   was actively involved in the safety and crowd control forums as more
   than 2 million visitors were expected to travel to the city over the
   course of the one week event, potentially causing disruption in the
   Federal workplace. The GBFEB hosted a number of successful training
   programs beneficial to the Federal community at-large. In May 2000, we
   enlisted OSHA and DOL's Office of Worker's Compensation to brief
   Federal manager's and supervisors on their 11 FEDERAL WORKER 2000
   initiative. More than 75 Federal managers and supervisors obtained
   first hand information from the experts on not only how to make the
   Federal workplace safer but how to assist injured workers. 12
