http://fire.pppl.gov/eu_comment_5th_frame.pdf

   COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES Brussels, 19.10.2000 COM(2000)
   659 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE
   EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE
   COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Comments of the Commission on the conclusions
   of the RTD Framework Programmes 5-Year Assessment 1. INTRODUCTION With
   the present document, the Commission communicates to the European
   Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the
   Committee of the Regions, the conclusions of the five-year assessment
   of the Framework Programmes (1995-1999) and its comments to it, as
   foreseen by the Decisions on the Fifth Framework Programme for
   research1. The assessment covers the Community RTD activities carried
   out under three successive Framework Programmes: results from the 3rd
   (1990-1994), implementation and results of the 4th (1994-1998) and
   implementation of the first year of 5th (1998-2002). The assessment has
   been conducted by a committed panel of high-level independent experts,
   chaired by Mr Joan Majò. The Panel has carried out a thorough work
   based on a large variety of inputs, including in particular similar
   assessments undertaken for each of the specific programmes composing
   the Framework Programme, a summary of which is annexed to the report of
   July 2000. This assessment is valuable in view of the preparation of
   future Community activities in the field of research. The Commission
   finds it particularly useful that the Panel has enlarged the scope of
   the assessment to take account of the latest overall political
   developments and initiatives. Recommendations and observations are
   placed in a wider political context, and are in particular related to
   the strategic goal set for the Union by the Heads of governments at the
   European summit in Lisbon in March 2000: "to become the most
   competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world capable of
   sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater
   social cohesion" achieved via an overall strategy aimed, i.a., at
   "preparing the transition to a knowledge-based economy and society by
   better policies for the information society and R&D, as well as by
   stepping up the process of structural reform for competitiveness and
   innovation and by completing the internal market." The report comprises
   an assessment of the activities' relevance to European needs,
   efficiency of implementation and overall effectiveness and impact . It
   also offers recommendations concerning future RTD activities at EU and
   national level, overall funding levels and initiatives for the
   improvement of frame conditions for research and innovation. The
   Chairman emphasises in his introduction to the report that it " is a
   contribution to the work of the Commission and a plea to European
   leaders, both in the Union and in the Member States, for the
   substantial policy review needed in order to implement a coherent
   follow-up to the statements made in Lisbon." In line with this, the
   Commission considers the report as a very welcome reference source for
   all stakeholders in research. In the following comments, the Commission
   has endeavoured to respond to all the points highlighted in the report
   (here indicated in italics), presented as far as possible according to
   the structure of "Executive Summary and Recommendations". In addition,
   brief comments 1 Decisions n° 182/1999/EC and 1999/64/Euratom, Article
   5.2, state: « Before submitting its proposal for at sixth framework
   programme, the Commission shall have an external assessment conducted
   by independent highly qualified experts into the implementation and
   achievements of Community activities carried out during the five years
   preceding that assessment in the light of the criteria set out in Annex
   I, the scientific and technological objectives set out in Annex II and
   the implementation of this Decision via the specific programmes based
   thereon. The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof,
   accompanied by its comments, to the European Parliament, the Council,
   the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the
   Regions."(EC) 2 are presented on some specific points made in the
   summaries of the assessment reports on specific programmes. The
   Commission will examine in detail all conclusions and recommendations
   transmitted and ensure an appropriate follow-up within the context of
   the preparation of the next framework programme. 2. MAIN CONCLUSIONS OF
   THE PANEL Three main messages can be retained from the overall report:
   The Framework Programme should be placed in a wider context and be
   developed in close partnership with Member States and other Community
   policies, in particular in the perspective of enlargement;  The
   Framework Programmes have overall been a success, representing
   considerable work and impact in strategic areas that could not have
   been achieved otherwise;  The Framework programme must now evolve to
   match the new political context with emphasis on focusing of efforts,
   flexibility and effectiveness. The Commission subscribes entirely to
   these three conclusions, as set out in more detail in this and
   following sections. The introductory paragraphs of the report's
   Executive summary and recommendations state: * "The most important
   conclusion of our Panel is that the Framework Programme alone will not
   be enough to serve the goals set at Lisbon. [...] Our Panel is
   convinced that the required changes need to be conceived within an
   overall strategy for Europe, articulated at the level of the EU and
   supported by all the Member States." The idea of an overall European
   strategy in the area of research was presented by the Commission, fully
   in line with this overall recommendation from the Panel, in its
   Communication « Towards a European research area » of 18 January 2000.
   It has since then been endorsed politically by the European Council and
   the Research Council; and by the European Parliament, the Economic and
   Social Committee, and the Committee of the Regions. In addition, the
   academic world, enterprises and users have wholeheartedly supported and
   provided valuable contributions to the implementation of this strategy.
   In the light of current challenges and of past experience, there is
   indeed need for an overall research and innovation policy in Europe
   ensuring coherence and interaction between national and Community
   policies and actions, and a better organisation and use of human,
   material and financial resources. This requires action at both
   Community and Member state level as pointed out also in the conclusions
   and resolutions from the Council and the European Parliament. The
   Commission agrees that the policy instruments have to be adapted and
   supplemented to match this strategy. The Framework Programme concept
   must be substantially reviewed to become a central instrument in the
   implementation of the European research area, serving as leverage and
   catalyst for increased co-operation and complementarity between
   policies, programmes and activities at European, national and regional
   levels. In this context, the strategy should be able to build upon
   other policies, instruments and actions, notably in the field of
   enlargement, regions, Internal Market, education and training and
   innovation. 3 The implementation of this strategy, as imbedded in the
   concept of European Research Area, will furthermore be the basis for
   input to an overall European strategy, for example through the
   contribution to the annual spring European Council, in the context of
   the follow-up to the European Summit in Lisbon. 3. FRAMEWORK TOMORROW *
   "There is still a need for these activities and they deserve to be
   continued, but the scope of the Framework Programme should also be
   increased in line with the need to meet the Lisbon goals and the
   demands of enlargement. The Panel recommends:  "Maintaining the
   emphasis on social relevance and continuing to use Key Actions as a way
   of focusing programmes;  Maintaining a strong emphasis on collaborative
   RTD projects supplemented by a variety of other actions;  Emphasising
   excellence and the participation of leading-edge researchers;
   Encouraging participants to propose `riskier' projects;  Enhancing
   measures encouraging the mobility of researchers within the EU and
   between the EU and elsewhere;  Retaining support for generic,
   competence-building RTD activities;  Increasing the emphasis on the
   research needed to support other EU policies." The Commission agrees
   that the Framework Programme must be reviewed and adapted to the new
   policy context. In particular, the objectives must take account of new
   challenges and should be focused on main European priorities. While
   preserving the best of the past, the mix of instruments and modalities
   for action should be flexible and adapted and tailored for each set of
   objectives, including some degree of "variable geometry". The
   Commission endorses the view that socio-economic objectives and
   relevance of Community research is still essential. The key action
   concept, introduced with the 5th Framework Programme, has proven to be
   valuable in reaching these objectives and could be used further, when
   appropriate, as a mean of concentrating the activities. In order to
   contribute to goals of other EU policies, such as in the fields of
   environment and sustainable development, and education, the Commission
   will endeavour to further consolidate and develop the partnership
   between research and other EU policies, building adequate co-operation
   mechanisms from the onset, especially when setting strategic objectives
   and for the dissemination and valorisation of results, devoting more
   attention and resources to the delivery of results. This approach
   should not be limited to cases in which research directly relates to
   economic competitiveness or economic development. EU policies help
   setting strategic research objectives. Conversely, research should help
   in defining objectives for other policies which can contribute to
   improved conditions for carrying out research and co-operation in
   research. The Commission entirely agrees that scientific and
   technological excellence, possibly obtained by increased participation
   of leading-edge researchers, is the basis for achieving the 4 set
   objectives. Modalities and management procedures should be adapted in
   order to enhance further excellence in Community research. The
   Commission acknowledges the need for "riskier" Community projects to
   promote excellence and breakthroughs. The implementation of such
   projects are conditioned by particular features like more openly
   defined objectives, more flexible procedures and also the acceptance of
   potential failures. The Commission is prepared to review and adapt the
   criteria and procedures in order to encourage this type of action. As
   far as implementation modalities are concerned, the Commission is, as
   the Panel, convinced that collaborative RTD actions promote a
   collective approach to problems and stimulate trans-national and
   research/industry co-operation that has proven to be very effective.
   Adaptations to the concept are necessary, e.g. in particular towards
   support of "programmes" of research, and networking with national
   programmes or seeking complementarity with other financing sources, in
   particular to take into account the needs for promotion of centres of
   excellence and research infrastructures. Mobility measures are other
   tools that have been very much appreciated and effective in the
   Framework Programmes. In the future, these measures should be given
   even higher priority than in the past and make EU attractive to the
   best researchers world wide. Mobility as an effective means of
   transferring knowledge should be given particular attention. The
   Commission also recognises that there is a need for generic RTD
   activities. In the perspective of preparing the grounds for tomorrow's
   society and competitiveness in a knowledge-based economy, there is a
   growing demand for longer term, competence-building, cutting-edge RTD
   activities, through multidisciplinary projects or the creation of an
   "open domain" for emerging technologies. * "The Panel is convinced that
   existing policy tools need to be further exploited in a restructured
   and expanded Framework Programme" The Commission shares the view that
   all relevant Treaty provisions should be exploited in order to ensure
   flexibility and appropriateness of scope and scale of modalities and
   actions. This is particularly important in the perspective of
   enlargement. Measures should aim at fostering open co-ordination among
   Member states. Variable geometry actions through EU contribution to
   national programmes, supplementary programmes etc. can be envisaged. A
   renewed Framework Programme should be equipped with a suitable mix of
   instruments. * "The Panel recommends a major review of the systems and
   procedures used to decide overall goals, specify delivery mechanisms
   and implement programmes.[...] We recommend adoption of a European RTD
   strategy at the highest political levels. The Heads of Government
   should then delegate the task of formulating and implementing this
   strategy to the European Commission, supported by an appropriate
   advisory structure.[...] the Panel sees no need to continue the
   programme committees." The Commission attaches the greatest importance
   to the fact that, following the orientations presented by the
   Commission, an overall research strategy has indeed already been
   adopted for research at the highest political level in the Council and
   in the European Parliament. Research has been attributed a central role
   in the framing of the knowledge-based society, and the implementation
   of a European Research Area, as appropriate, in close co-operation with
   Member states has been fully endorsed. This shall condition all future
   Community action in the field of RTD. 5 The Commission shares the view
   that responsibilities should be clearly placed at all levels of the
   designing, adoption and implementation of policy. The Treaty, and other
   subordinate legislation, in particular the Council decision on the
   delegation of implementing powers to the Commission, give guidelines on
   this point. It is also important that the different actors in the chain
   are associated to and interact during the different processes in order
   to ensure coherence and impact. The use of programme committees is a
   well-established practice in many parts of the Community budget. The
   Commission is keen to ensure that it continues to have access to advice
   of the highest quality on science policy priorities and strategic
   choices. * "Re-engineering existing structures and procedures to
   delegate responsibility for tasks downwards within the Commission, or
   externalise them". The Commission is fully committed to the improvement
   of the management of Community research programmes towards best
   management practices in line with the reform of the Commission. The
   organisation of the Commission services must take into account the
   changing objectives as well as the available means, including through
   clarification and delegation of responsibilities at different levels.
   Where appropriate and on the basis of cost- benefit analysis, the
   Commission can give specific tasks to other bodies, precise control
   measures would be applied. 4. BEYOND FRAMEWORK * "The Panel recommends
   increasing the relative size of the budgets allocated to science and
   technology compared to other policy domains. The Panel is convinced
   that the percentage of GDP spent in the EU on public and private RTD
   should rise to at least 3% over the next ten years". "The Panel
   recommends the use of indirect measures such as RTD tax incentives
   across the EU" The Commission has pointed out that Europe is lagging
   behind our main competitors, United States and Japan, in terms of
   research funding and human resources. It therefore supports that every
   possible effort should be made, at Community and Member state level by
   the private and public sectors, in order to improve this situation. It
   is understood that public sector finance should not be used directly to
   close the growing gap between private sector RTD expenditure in Europe
   and the USA but rather to use all possibilities to promote in
   particular private expenditures, i.e. collaboration with the European
   Investment Bank and taking account of the lessons from benchmarking
   activities should be explored. Further analysis of the effect of tax
   incentives on promoting private sector expenditure on RTD may be
   desirable. The main action in this respect, however, has to be taken at
   the level of the Member states. Progress may be achieved by promoting
   benchmarking and exchange of best practices, for example in the field
   of favourable RTD tax incentives, venture capital and start-ups. Where
   the measures employed have an element of state aid, Community rules on
   state aids should always be respected. Attention should equally be paid
   to the Code of Conduct for business taxation, in order to avoid the
   creation of distortions in the internal market. Indirect measures may
   to some extent be stimulated by Community action, e.g. the recent
   Commission proposal for a Community patent within the general context
   of the stimulus to competitiveness and innovation generated by the
   internal market. * "RTD policies in the Member States need to reinforce
   rather than duplicate each other." There is a growing common
   understanding, reinforced by the European Council and the Research
   Council, of the need for interaction between policies and programmes in
   the Member states and at Community level. In line with this,
   benchmarking of national policies will be launched shortly. The
   development of mechanisms for the networking of national and 6 joint
   programmes as called for by the Lisbon European Council, will be
   addressed in the Communication on guidelines for future EU research.
   The Commission will play a catalytic and supporting role in this
   context. * "The Panel recommends that support provided to these
   [applicant Central and Eastern European] countries for RTD activities
   be channelled temporarily through the existing scientific Academies
   until new competitive structures for the organisation of science and
   industry can be developed." The Commission agrees that the involvement
   of these countries is a major advance for European research.
   Nevertheless, it is not convinced that the approach suggested by the
   Panel is the most appropriate in the current context. Many of the
   countries already have made considerable progress, e.g. through EU
   support, in restructuring their science and innovation sector,
   including through revising the size and role of the Academies. The
   Commission favours a more comprehensive approach, taking into account
   all socio-econonomic factors, that will make use of the experience
   gained, not only with Central and Eastern European countries but also
   with less favoured regions in the Union, as concerns support for their
   policy making, programming and capacity building in science, technology
   and innovation. * "The Panel recommends urgent action to counter
   envisaged skill shortages over the next decade." Due to the growing
   importance of the knowledge-base for our society, there is generally
   increased attention attached to current educational and skills'
   shortages in certain high tech areas and to potential skills' shortages
   due to the ageing population even in more traditional areas.
   Benchmarking and best practice exercises co-ordinated in an open manner
   by the Community may help overcome this situation, as the Member States
   are having a crucial role to play in this context. Enhanced Community
   activities related to human resources development via training and
   mobility of researchers with emphasis on women and young researchers
   will also contribute. These will include improved availability, use and
   impact of e-learning tools. * "The Panel urges the Commission to ensure
   that innovation-related activities are high on the agenda of actions
   supported by the Community Structural Funds and the Accession Funds for
   the applicant countries" The Commission shares the views of the panel
   concerning innovation policy and the strategy of a European research
   area, initiated by the Commission, emphasises the importance of
   innovation related activities. The promotion of innovation is and will
   remain a key objective of the Commission guidelines for the future of
   EU research. As required by the Lisbon European Council, "research
   activities at national and Union level should be better integrated and
   co-ordinated to become as efficient and innovative as possible." New
   and innovative processes and products should also be able to permeate
   the new knowledge-based economy. In its recent Communication on
   innovation, the Commission presents five objectives: coherence of
   innovation policies, regulatory frameworks more conducive to
   innovation, means to encourage the creation and growth of innovative
   enterprises, improve key interfaces in the innovation system and open
   the society to innovation. In this overall approach, Structural Funds
   and Accession Funds should assist regional actors and candidate
   countries to devise and implement appropriate research and innovation
   policies at regional level. 7 5. FRAMEWORK ASSESSMENT * "The Panel's
   positive assessment of activities over the last five years is the basis
   for recommending continuation and expansion of the Framework
   Programme". In designing future Community activities, the Commission
   will put the emphasis on the expansion and adaptation of the Framework
   Programme to the new political context and goals. Further efforts will
   be undertaken to improve the socio-economic impact assessment of EU RTD
   activities. * "The Panel recommends making procedures much simpler and
   easier to understand." Past experience and teething problems
   encountered in the launch of the 5th Framework Programme have provided
   the focus for the Commission to take initiatives to simplify management
   procedures and make them more user-friendly and efficient. To that end,
   a working group was set up. It has identified a number of items for
   simplification and streamlining that have already been implemented or
   will be so shortly. The Commission acknowledges the need for continued
   attention and efforts in this area. * "The Panel recommends an urgent
   re-engineering of the overall management and administration of the
   Framework Programme" A review of the effectiveness of the overall
   programme management and administration has been attributed high
   priority. The aim is to streamline procedures and to clarify the
   definition of responsibilities and tasks at all levels. The Commission
   sincerely thanks Mr J. Majo and the Panel members for this valuable
   report which provides an important input to the preparation of the
   future Community research activities. 8 COMMISSION'S COMMENTS ON THE
   SPECIFIC PROGRAMMES' 5-YEAR ASSESSMENTS The Summaries of the Specific
   Programmes' 5-Year Assessments are presented in Appendix I to the
   Report on the Framework Programme 5-Year Assessment. Brief comments
   regarding the summarised recommendations, are set out below (Horizontal
   issues are already dealt with in the Commission's responses to the
   Framework Programme 5- Year Assessment report itself). Quality of Life
   and Management of living resources The Commission recognises the
   current pervasiveness of life sciences and technologies, from
   agriculture and food to health care, environment and biological
   resources. Progress in this field therefore encompasses also ecological
   aspects, ethical perspectives and debates with responsible citizens.
   Commissioner Busquin has established a Life Sciences High Level Group
   to address this concern. Further initiatives include specific calls for
   proposals in the fields of bio-ethics and impact assessment, more
   networking, and sharing of good practice between Member States to raise
   the level of consciousness towards the societal dimension. The Panel's
   recognition of the value of policy-driven research (in key actions) is
   encouraging. The Commission agrees that this approach should be further
   explored in the context of the implementation of the European Research
   Area, paying careful attention to required synergies with national
   programmes, as well as to achieving European added value. The
   Commission also notes with interest the recommendation for increased
   attention to generic bottom-up research, longer-term investments in
   human resource development and centres of excellence and support for
   key research infrastructures and major scientific facilities including
   electronic access. The recommendation for new, flexible and customer-
   driven modalities for its implementation is also supported.
   User-friendly Information Society The Commission agrees that it is of
   fundamental importance to continue pursuing RTD in the area of
   information society technologies at Community level and has taken note
   of the Panel's view that a path of evolutionary change and additional
   focus is appropriate. It notes with interest the proposal for
   interpreting European added value in terms of achieving European
   technological leadership and a broader European technological
   capability, notably in the context of the European Research Area and
   e-Europe initiatives. The Commission fully supports the wish to improve
   efficiency and effectiveness underlying the Panel's recommendation to
   distinguish between three types of RTD and to vary, as appropriate, the
   administrative approach applied to each. This proposal will be analysed
   further during the preparation of the future Framework Programme.
   Particular attention will be given to the Panel's view that linkages
   should be created to other initiatives and that debate should be
   supported on key issues that will condition the exploitation of RTD.
   The European Research Area initiative will encourage a more co-
   ordinated implementation of national and Community research programmes
   and also foster a more structured dialogue between interested parties,
   including on societal issues such as "info-ethics". 9 Competitive and
   Sustainable Growth The Commission notes the Panel's view that the
   socio-economic focussed approach followed in the 5th Framework
   Programme is important but may need further clarification, and that the
   impact of many RTD activities would increase by increased involvement
   of users at all stages of programme implementation, not least in the
   fields of transport and standards, measurement and testing. It is also
   fully in line with the Commission's European Research Area initiative
   to increase the co-ordination between the activities at national and
   Community, including those regarding dissemination of results, in line
   with the Panel's recommendation. As rightly stated, a strong
   longer-term research activity is of the utmost importance if Europe and
   its industry is to compete effectively with the rest of the world. A
   proper balance between "scientific and technological breakthrough" and
   "incremental innovation" needs to be found, including, through
   particular attention to "risky projects". The Commission also takes
   note of the Panel's support for the diversification of actions,
   including the introduction of "Expressions of Interest" for bottom-up
   initiated activities which the Panel considers as a useful source of
   ideas. Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development Environment and
   Sustainable Development The Panel states that "a significant part of
   the funding should be redirected towards generic activities and
   long-term research". In the Commission's view, this is an important
   issue in Community as in other research programmes; an appropriate
   balance between mission- oriented, medium to long time-scale and policy
   relevant actions has to be achieved, where some research outputs are
   being tailored for specific user groups. Moreover effective diffussion
   of the research results is actively pursued. In line with the
   Commission's European Research Area orientations, the positive
   interaction between Community and national research, including in the
   candidate countries, should certainly be promoted, e.g. this could
   apply to the establishment of a European environmental research
   strategy. The Panel states that the current environmental concerns
   addressed do not necessarily cover those of an enlarged Community;
   however, one out of seven applicants during the first period of
   implementation was from an institution outside the European Union. It
   is encouraging to note the Panel's view that the EU can have a
   strategic role with respect to key environmental infrastructure.
   Non-Nuclear Energy The Commission agrees that a strategic approach and
   clear focusing are needed. The on-going mid-term revision of the Energy
   Work Programme has indeed taken on board this recommendation. As a
   consequence, a number of selected priority areas will be targeted,
   while emphasising socio-economic needs and the integration of
   multidisciplinary research. The suggested optimisation of impact will
   be reached mainly by increasing the size and critical mass of actions.
   The Commission also notes the request for modalities and action types
   which ensure flexibility in implementation, allowing activities to
   cater better for emerging questions and to achieve more clearly
   identifiable impact. 10 Nuclear Energy Nuclear Fusion The Commission
   shares the view that important achievements have resulted from the co-
   ordination and co-operation provided by the Associations between the
   Community and national research programmes. Europe has become a leading
   actor in the world in this field, but there are still a number of
   important scientific, technological and engineering issues to be
   addressed before a commercial power plant can be realised. The
   Commission notes that the Panel considers that the next research
   programme should continue to be reactor oriented and should include the
   start of the construction of the "Next step" device such as the
   International Thermonuclear Experiment Reactor (ITER). The Commission
   will review the options available. In the mean time, the Commission
   agrees that maintaining this leadership requires exploiting JET and
   specialised devices in the Associations up to their full value. The
   Commission is seeking directives from Council to conduct negotiations
   with third parties, possibly including Canada and USA, to jointly
   prepare for the future establishment of a legal entity for the
   construction and operation of ITER if and when so decided. Financial
   costs and benefits of siting ITER in Europe, Canada or Japan and of
   fall-back possibilities will be thoroughly reviewed. Nuclear Fission
   and Radiological Sciences A number of recommendations are fully in line
   with the development of the European Research Area and they will be
   carefully taken into account, e.g. increased emphasis on co-
   ordination, networking, training, etc. Efforts will be made to broaden
   the scope of the studies on risk governance, including both technical
   and social factors, as suggested by the Panel. The Commission agrees
   that there is need to improve communication to non-specialists,
   decision-makers and the public. Confirming the International Role of
   Community Research The Panel emphasises, as does the Commission, the
   particular role this programme's activities play in providing
   "essential contributions" both to Community RTD policy and to other EU
   policies. In the Commission's view, research is international by nature
   and excellence results from a combination of favourable local
   conditions and openness to international sources of knowledge. An
   important asset is therefore the multiplying effect as regards the
   impact of research investments and circulation of knowledge between
   countries and regions in the world. It reinforces Europe's capabilities
   to contribute to the solution of world-wide problems as well as
   specific regional issues. It also enhances the position and role of
   Community research in the international scientific and technological
   arena. Promotion of Innovation and Encouragement of Participation of
   SMEs The Panel's recommendations, including regarding the definition of
   a clear strategic role and focussing on customers where the highest
   leverage effects can be achieved, are constructive and helpful. The
   Commission will take them into account in the implementation of the
   current Framework Programme and in the preparation of future Community
   activities. 11 The Commission also notes that the recommendations are
   in line with the priorities it set for the European Research Area, in
   particular concerning SMEs and co-ordination of innovation activities
   at the regional, national and European level. Improving the Human
   Research Potential and the Socio-economic Knowledge Base The Commission
   welcomes the conclusion that this programme is a good instrument to
   meet the challenge of the transition to a knowledge society. The
   actions for supporting training of very high quality, mobile
   researchers with international experience, such as fellowships and
   training networks, must therefore be further explored in future
   Community programmes. The Commission agrees that the mobility concept,
   presently focused on the training of researchers, can be extended to
   stimulate transfer of knowledge and technology. This could be a feature
   of future schemes. The Commission welcomes the recommendation to give
   higher visibility to the socio-economic research activities and
   results, in line with the new political context and goals as defined in
   Lisbon. The Commission wishes to point out that this programme also
   contributes to promoting the attractiveness of Europe to researchers
   and avoiding brain drain. It welcomes the Panel's recommendation for a
   more ambitious approach to European research infrastructure and will
   develop a policy for a better support of research infrastructure in
   co-operation with other stakeholders. The Joint Research Centre The
   Commission welcomes that the Panel has emphasised the appropriateness
   and relevance of the new mission of the JRC in support of European
   policy formulation, implementation and monitoring. It notes with
   interest that the Panel expressed strong support for the increased
   outward- looking attitude of the JRC and called for a strengthening of
   its networking with organisations in the Member States within the
   European Research Area. This should be accompanied by a reinforcement
   of the JRC's interfaces with its main customers. The Panel also
   recommended to consider the full range of the provision of S&T support
   and not just the R&D part. The process of change that the JRC has been
   engaged in should continue. The Commission agrees that the visibility
   of the Centre and its achievements need to be further improved in order
   to confirm and develop its position within the European system of
   scientific and technical reference for policy implementation. It will
   further address these recommendations in a communication on the
   implementation of the JRC mission, to be prepared in the context of its
   contribution to the development of the European Research Area
   initiative. * The Commission expresses its particular thanks to all the
   Panels that have carried out the 5-year assessment of the Specific
   Programmes for their dedicated work and the efforts invested in this
   complex task 12 Annex: conclusions of the report of the Panel on the
   five-year assessment of the RTD Framework Programmes (the full report
   is available on request, this report is also available at the internet
   address http://www.cordis.lu/fp5/5yr_reports.htm). 13 ANNEX Conclusions
   of the five-year assessment of the Framework Programmes of Research and
   Technology Development, 1995-1999 14 Chairman's Introduction New
   circumstances call for new goals. And new goals call for new policy
   tools. Our Panel has been appointed to evaluate the performance over
   the last five years of a tool, the Framework Programme. But we felt
   obliged to go beyond this task. You will find in our report the
   expected evaluation, an evaluation that shows lights and also darks. I
   hope that our suggestions make a useful contribution to the task of
   preparing the next Framework Programme and fine-tuning the current one.
   Our main message is that if the European Union wants to face the
   challenges of the new economic situation and attain the goals outlined
   by Heads of Government in Lisbon, the Framework Programme alone is not
   enough to implement European research and technological development
   (RTD) policy. It needs to be complemented by other tools. It is my
   conviction, shared by the members of the Panel, that these challenges
   will not be successfully met without a real European RTD policy, a
   policy which does not exist today. Improving and enhancing the
   Framework Programme will be necessary but it will not be enough. Let me
   go further. The absence of research policy is due to the lack of a real
   strategy for the future of Europe. It is very difficult to imagine how
   the ambitious goals decided in Lisbon can be achieved if this void is
   not filled. For this reason, an important part of the report is devoted
   to the threats faced by our industrial and scientific communities and
   to the actions which need to be taken both at the level of the Union
   and, in a co-ordinated form, at the level of the Member States. Looking
   from the side of economy, the most important threat is of Europe
   falling further behind other economic areas over the next decade.
   Looking from the scientific community, the fear is of Europe losing its
   place as a centre of excellence for the creation of knowledge. I am
   convinced that both threats are the same. This report is a contribution
   to the work of the Commission and a plea to European leaders, both in
   the Union and in the Member States, for the substantial policy review
   needed in order to implement a coherent follow-up to the statements
   made in Lisbon. Executive Summary and Recommendations The EU currently
   faces great challenges. At the March 2000 meeting of the European
   Council in Lisbon, the Union set itself the goal of becoming the most
   competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. This puts
   research and technological development (RTD) policy at the heart of
   development strategies. The most important conclusion of our Panel is
   that the Framework Programme alone will not be enough to serve the
   goals set at Lisbon. Although there is much to commend in past and
   current Framework Programmes, the challenges we face as we move towards
   the new economy call not only for the Framework Programme 15 itself to
   become a much more flexible policy instrument, but also for additional
   instruments and actions. RTD policy is inextricably linked with
   policies in other spheres, especially education and innovation. Our
   Panel is convinced that the required changes need to be conceived
   within an overall strategy for Europe, articulated at the level of the
   EU and supported by all the Member States. Framework Tomorrow The
   Framework Programme has helped academic and industrial partners all
   across the EU to tackle problems collaboratively. It has also
   contributed to the training of researchers and to the development of
   the European research infrastructure. There is still a need for these
   activities and they deserve to be continued, but the scope of the
   Framework Programme should also be increased in line with the need to
   meet the Lisbon goals and the demands of enlargement. The Panel
   recommends:  Maintaining the emphasis on social relevance and
   continuing to use Key Actions as a way of focusing programmes;
   Maintaining a strong emphasis on collaborative RTD projects
   supplemented by a variety of other actions;  Emphasising excellence and
   the participation of leading-edge researchers;  Encouraging
   participants to propose `riskier' projects;  Enhancing measures
   encouraging the mobility of researchers within the EU and between the
   EU and elsewhere;  Retaining support for generic, competence-building
   RTD activities;  Increasing the emphasis on the research needed to
   support other EU policies. But more is needed in Europe today. The EU
   Treaty allows for the use of other policy instruments to support
   scientific and technological activity. Some of these have been used,
   but the Panel is convinced that existing policy tools need to be
   further exploited in a restructured and expanded Framework Programme.
   This under-utilisation is a consequence of the way the Framework
   Programme is determined and implemented. The Panel recommends a major
   review of the systems and procedures used to decide overall goals,
   specify delivery mechanisms and implement programmes. Specifically, we
   are convinced of the need to distinguish carefully between these
   activities and to allocate responsibility for them accordingly. We
   recommend adoption of a European RTD strategy at the highest political
   levels. The Heads of Government should then delegate the task of
   formulating and implementing this strategy to the European Commission,
   supported by an appropriate advisory structure. These changes will
   necessitate a greater level of trust by the Member States in the
   ability of the Commission to deliver an effective Framework Programme.
   In particular, the Panel sees no need to continue the Programme
   Committees. At the level of implementation, a review of the management
   and administration of the Framework Programme should concentrate on
   ways of re-engineering existing structures and procedures to delegate
   responsibility for tasks downwards within 16 the Commission, or
   externalise them. At present there is excessive focus on adherence to
   procedures and not enough emphasis on ensuring overall goal attainment.
   The changes recommended by the Panel to create a more flexible,
   expanded Framework Programme will require support at the highest
   political levels. This is because they call into question some of the
   basic principles governing the operation of the European Commission as
   a whole, not just the way research policy is formulated and
   implemented. Beyond Framework It will be necessary for Heads of
   Government to reconsider the priority attached to science, technology
   and innovation. These activities are critical to the development of the
   knowledge-based society envisaged at Lisbon. Accordingly, the Panel
   recommends increasing the relative size of the budgets allocated to
   science and technology compared to other policy domains. The Panel is
   convinced that the percentage of GDP spent in the EU on public and
   private RTD should rise to at least 3% over the next ten years. Higher
   levels will be necessary without parallel efforts to avoid duplication
   of effort across the EU. Private sector RTD expenditure will need to be
   stimulated if Europe is to keep pace with its competitors. The Panel
   recommends the use of indirect measures such as RTD tax incentives
   across the EU in order to flag to the rest of the world that Europe is
   an attractive place to conduct RTD. RTD policies in the Member States
   need to reinforce rather than duplicate each other. In the Panel's
   view, the European Commission has a key facilitation role to play in
   this area. The Commission should take the lead in outlining the steps
   needed to pool infrastructure and policy-intelligence resources across
   the EU. The Panel also urges all the Member States to lend their
   unequivocal support to these efforts. The enlargement of the EU
   presents great social and economic opportunities for all, but only if
   appropriate actions are taken. The Central and Eastern European
   countries are waiting for the EU to take the lead by implementing a
   European RTD strategy which takes their needs fully into account. The
   Panel recommends that support provided to these countries for RTD
   activities be channelled temporarily through the existing scientific
   Academies until new competitive structures for the organisation of
   science and industry can be developed. The Panel recommends urgent
   action to counter envisaged skill shortages over the next decade. This
   will involve measures to increase the attractiveness to young people of
   careers in science, actions encouraging retraining, and steps to ensure
   that the potential increase of scientific talent as a result of
   enlargement is fully tapped. The Panel also supports the creation of
   truly European centres of teaching and research excellence capable of
   attracting the best minds in the world to live and work in the EU.
   Innovation is another policy area in which new initiatives are needed
   to improve the position of Europe. Innovation policy is linked with RTD
   policy but is much broader, involving financial, market, legal, fiscal
   and cultural aspects, and will require actions 17 outside the Framework
   Programme. The Panel supports such endeavours and urges the Commission
   to ensure that innovation-related activities are high on the agenda of
   actions supported by the Community Structural Funds and the Accession
   Funds for the applicant countries. Framework Assessment The Panel's
   positive assessment of activities over the last five years is the basis
   for recommending continuation and expansion of the Framework Programme.
   The emphasis on collaborative RTD projects was much appreciated by
   academic and industrial participants, allowing them to undertake
   strategically important work which would have been difficult to
   undertake otherwise. Networking, training-related activities and
   adequate procedures for the involvement of SMEs were also widely
   regarded as successful features of the Framework Programme. Concerning
   programme administration, many participants were dissatisfied with
   application procedures and, to a lesser extent, with payment delays.
   The Panel recommends making procedures much simpler and easier to
   understand. The overall orientation of the Fifth Framework Programme
   was endorsed by the Panel, though the initial implementation of the
   programme was not smooth. The new matrix management structures put in
   place to ensure adequate communication within and across programme
   areas did not function well. The Panel recommends an urgent
   re-engineering of the overall management and administration of the
   Framework Programme. The system of evaluation can be considered as well
   established. Impact assessment should become one of the most important
   elements of evaluation. 18 THE FRAMEWORK PROGRAMMES' FIVE-YEAR
   ASSESSMENT PANEL Mr J. MAJÓ (Spain), Chairman of the Panel Chairman of
   Business Board, Institut Català de Tecnología, Chairman of the Board,
   European Institute for the Media (Düsseldorf), former Minister of
   Industry in Spanish government Mr S. BARABASCHI (Italy) President of
   FAST-CISAI, former Secretary of State for S&T, Vice-President of
   Eurocase, former President of Ansaldo Ricerche, former President of
   ESTA, former President of EIRMA Ms J.E. BELL (UK) Professor of
   Neuropathology, University of Edinburgh Mr H.G. DANIELMEYER (Germany)
   Vice-President Japanese German Center, Berlin, former Senior
   Vice-President Siemens AG Mr G. S. ARGYROPOULOS (Greece) Director
   General of the Federation of Greek Industries Ms S. McKENNA-LAWLOR
   (Ireland) Member of the Senate of the National University of Ireland
   and Professor of Experimental Physics; owner and managing Director of
   STIL (Space Technology Ireland Ltd. SME size) Ms F. THYS-CLEMENT
   (Belgium) Pro-Rector Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), former Rector
   ULB Ms C. ULLENIUS (Sweden) President Karlstad University, former
   Vice-President Chalmers University of Technology Mr Y. FARGE (France)
   Adviser to Director General, Centre National de la Recherche
   Scientifique (CNRS), former Director of R&D of Pechiney Group Mr N.
   WILHJELM (Denmark) President Chief Executive Industriens
   Realkreditfond, former Minister for Industry and Trade Mr J. VIANA
   BAPTISTA (Portugal) Chairman of EDIFER, Chairman of ICAT, former IRDAC
   member, former Minister of Public Works, and of Transport and
   Communications Mr K. GUY (UK), Rapporteur of the Panel Director of Wise
   Guys Ltd. 19
