http://www.ctc.ca.gov/codcor.doc/020002/020002.html

                                    logo

        CCTC Home   |  California Home Page   |  Governor's Home Page
   About the Commission   |  Credential Information   |  Credential Alerts
      Coded Correspondence   |  Educational Standards   |  Examination
                                 Information
   Reports-on-Line   |  Committee on Accreditation   |  Troops to Teachers
                          |  Other Sites of Interest

                      CCTC Coded Correspondence 02-0002

   Return to Coded Correspondence
   PDF version of this document.
   letterhead

 Date:    January 3, 2002
 Number:  02-0002
 To:      All Individuals and Groups Interested in the Activities of the
          Commission on Teacher Credentialing
 From:    Sam Swofford, Ed.D.
          Executive Director
 Subject: Submission of a Response to the New Standard Requiring All
          Multiple and Single Subject Teaching Credential Candidates be Prepared
          to Serve English Learners (AB 1059, Ducheny)

   Background
   AB 1059 (Ducheny) became effective on January 1, 2000 and requires that
   all Commission-accredited Multiple and Single Subject teacher
   preparation programs implement a new standard for the preparation of
   teachers to assist K-12 students to maintain academic progress across
   the curriculum while continuing to develop English language skills.
   This is a new standard for basic Multiple and Single Subject Teaching
   Credentials, not previously addressed at this level.
   This new requirement will be implemented in two phases.
   Phase One addresses the English learner standard for Preliminary
   Multiple and Single Subject Teaching Credential candidates, and
   requires submission of an institutional response to the standard no
   later than April 15, 2002.
   Phase Two addresses the English learner standard for Professional Clear
   Multiple and Single Subject Teaching Credential candidates, and will be
   implemented at a later date, as part of the accreditation process under
   SB 2042.
   This correspondence specifies the new standard for English learners for
   Preliminary Multiple and Single Subject Teaching Credential candidates
   and the procedure for submission of a response to the new standard
   (Phase One).
   Phase One
   In September of 2001, the California Commission on Teacher
   Credentialing adopted new Standards of Quality and Effectiveness for
   Professional Teacher Preparation Programs. One of these new standards,
   Program Standard 13 (Preparation to Teach English Learners) is the
   standard that must be implemented in order to meet the Phase One
   requirements of AB 1059. Institutions with Commission-accredited
   Multiple and Single Subject Teaching Credential programs are required
   to implement Program Standard 13 by July 1, 2002. Institutions that
   have not implemented this requirement by July 1, 2002 will not be
   authorized to prepare candidates for Preliminary Multiple and Single
   Subject Teaching Credentials.
   It is important to note that all institutions with
   Commission-accredited Multiple and Single Subject Teaching Credential
   programs are required to respond to this new standard, including those
   that have a CLAD emphasis. AB 1059 addresses the needs of English
   learners in all Multiple and Single Subject classrooms. Unlike CLAD, it
   does not include the teaching of English learners in specialized
   settings, and does not include a language experience component.
   Special Note for Institutions Participating in the Early Adoption of SB
   2042 Standards Program
   Early adopter institutions will respond to Standard 13 as a part of
   their overall submission of a response to SB 2042 Standards, due on
   April 1, 2002. A separate response is not required.
   Phase Two
   Further information concerning the implementation of Phase Two
   (professional clear credential) will be provided at a later date.
   Procedure for Response to the New English Learner Standard (Phase One):
   The response to the new English Learner Standard (Standard 13) must be
   submitted no later than April 15, 2002 to the

     California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
     Professional Services Division
     1900 Capitol Avenue
     Sacramento, CA 95814-4213
     Attention: English Learner Standard

   Four copies of the response must be submitted. The response must
   include a transmittal cover letter signed by the dean or director of
   teacher education, and must include the following information:
     * Date
     * Name of Institution
     * Name, mailing address, telephone number, email address, and FAX
       number of the contact person at the institution
     * Name of the program(s) (i.e., Multiple Subject and Single Subject)

   Appendix A contains the text of Standard 13, including Elements A
   through H. Appendix B contains information regarding the organization
   of the response and evidence for the standard.
   Commission Contact Person
   Questions may be directed to:

     Lee Huddy, Consultant
     Professional Services Division
     California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
     1900 Capitol Avenue
     Sacramento, CA 95814-4213
     (916) 322-2304 Email: lhuddy@ctc.ca.gov

   Preface: This standard functions in conjunction with Standards 7A and
   7B on Reading. The competencies articulated in this standard are
   specific applications of Standard 7A, Elements (b) (f) and (i), and
   Standard 7B, Elements (a) (b) (c) and (d).

   Appendix A
   Program Standard 13: Preparation to Teach English Learners
   In the professional teacher preparation program all candidates have
   multiple systematic opportunities to acquire knowledge, skills and
   ability to deliver comprehensive instruction to English Learners.
   Candidates learn about state and federal legal requirements for the
   placement and instruction of English Learners. Candidates demonstrate
   knowledge and application of pedagogical theories, principles and
   practices for English Language Development leading to comprehensive
   literacy in English, and for the development of academic language,
   comprehension and knowledge in the subjects of the core curriculum.
   Candidates learn how to implement an instructional program that
   facilitates English language acquisition and development, including
   receptive and productive language skills, and that logically progresses
   to the grade level reading/language arts program for English speakers.
   Candidates acquire and demonstrate the ability to utilize assessment
   information to diagnose students' language abilities, and to develop
   lessons that promote students' access and achievement in relation to
   state-adopted academic content standards. Candidates learn how
   cognitive, pedagogical and individual factors affect student's language
   acquisition.
   Program Elements for Standard 13: Preparation to Teach English Learners
   An accreditation team determines whether the preliminary teacher
   preparation program meets this standard based on evidence provided by
   the program sponsor. The team must determine that the quality of the
   program has been clearly and effectively substantiated in relation to
   each of the following elements.

   13(a) The program provides opportunities for candidates to understand
         the philosophy, design, goals and characteristics of school-based
         organizational structures designed to meet the needs of English
         learners, including programs for English language development and their
         relationship to the state-adopted reading/language arts student content
         standards and framework.
   13(b) The program's coursework and field experiences include multiple
         systematic opportunities for candidates to learn, understand and
         effectively use materials, methods and strategies for English language
         development that are responsive to students' assessed levels of English
         proficiency, and that lead to the rapid acquisition of listening,
         speaking, reading and writing skills in English comparable to those of
         their grade level peers.
   13(c) Through planned prerequisite and/or professional preparation,
         candidates learn relevant state and federal laws pertaining to the
         education of English learners, and how they impact student placements
         and instructional programs.
   13(d) The program design provides each candidate opportunities to
         acquire knowledge of linguistic development, first and second language
         acquisition and how first language literacy connects to second language
         development.
   13(e) The program's coursework and field experiences include multiple
         systematic opportunities for candidates to understand and use
         instructional practices that promote English language development,
         including management of first- and second-languages, classroom
         organization, and participation by specialists and paraprofessionals.
   13(f) The program's coursework and field experiences include multiple
         systematic opportunities for candidates to acquire, understand and
         effectively use systematic instructional strategies designed to make
         grade-appropriate or advanced curriculum content comprehensible to
         English learners.
   13(g) Through coursework and field experiences candidates learn and
         understand how to interpret assessments of English learners. Candidates
         understand the purposes, content and uses of California's English
         Language Development Standards, and English Language Development Test.
         They learn how to effectively use appropriate measures for initial,
         progress monitoring, and summative assessment of English learners for
         language development and for content knowledge in the core curriculum.
   13(h) The program is designed to provide opportunities for candidates
         to learn and understand the importance of students' family backgrounds
         and experiences.

   Appendix B
   Organization of the Response
   Each response must be organized in the following order:
     * Transmittal Cover Letter
     * Table of Contents
     * Response to Standard 13, including each element of Standard 13 (A
       through H)

   The response to the standard and each element of the standard must:
     * be tabbed
     * have numbered pages
     * provide supporting evidence, included after each response or
       organized into appendices.

   Evidence should be cross-referenced in the response and appendices and
   should be tabbed for easy access by reviewers
   Responding to the Standard
   A program response should provide sufficient information about how the
   program intends to deliver content consistent with the standard and
   each element of the standard so that a knowledgeable team of
   professionals can determine whether each element has been met by the
   program.
   The written text may be organized in a variety of ways. Both holistic
   and element-by-element responses, as well as a combination of these
   approaches are acceptable. Whatever the organizational format, the text
   must reference all required elements, or address them specifically.
   Responses that do not address the standard and each element of the
   standard will be considered incomplete.
   Responses should not merely reiterate the standard. They should
   demonstrate how the standard will be met by describing both the content
   and processes that will be used to implement the program, and by
   providing evidence to support the explanation.
   The goal in writing the response should be to describe the proposed
   implementation design clearly enough for an outside reader to
   understand what a prospective teacher will experience as he or she
   progresses through the program, in terms of depth, breadth, and
   sequencing of instructional experiences, and what he or she will know
   and be able to do and demonstrate at the end of the program. Review
   teams will then be able to assess the response for consistency with the
   standard, completeness of the response, and quality of the supporting
   evidence.
   Some samples of evidence for review teams include:
     * Course or module outlines, or showing the sequence of course
       topics, classroom activities, materials and texts used, and
       out-of-class assignments
     * Descriptions of faculty qualifications, including Vitae for full
       time faculty
     * Charts and graphic organizers to illustrate program organization
       and design
     * Specific descriptions of assignments and other formative
       assessments that demonstrate how prospective teachers will
       reinforce and extend key concepts and/or demonstrate how
       prospective teachers will reinforce and extend key concepts and/or
       demonstrate an ability or competence
     * Documentation of materials to be used, including tables of contents
       of textbooks and identification of assignments from texts, and
       citations for other reading assignments
     * Course syllabi

   Evidence for the Standard
   Key Words and Phrases
   Multiple, systematic opportunities to learn several elements of
   teaching English language learners, including, but not limited to the
   following:
     * Comprehensive instruction to English learners
     * State and Federal legal requirements for placement and instruction
       of English learners
     * Pedagogical theories, principles, and practices for English
       Language Development
     * Comprehensive literacy in English
     * Academic language, comprehension, and knowledge in core curriculum
       subjects
     * Implementing an instructional program that facilitates English
       language acquisition
     * Includes receptive and productive language skills, grade level
       reading/language arts
     * Assessment information and diagnostic practices that assist English
       learners
     * Cognitive, pedagogical, and individual factors that influence
       language acquisition

   Explication of Key Words and Phrases
   Programs responding to this standard are expected to have a series of
   planned instructional strands (these can be regular unit-bearing
   courses or course modules or other types of planned instruction),
   either within or across required courses, that lead to a full
   opportunity to learn the knowledge and skills noted above. There must
   be several opportunities to learn this information and programs will be
   expected to have course syllabi or other explicit descriptions of what
   is taught and where it is taught. Programs that accept transfer credits
   or have waiver options for this material must have clear descriptions
   of how equivalency is determined. Programs must also indicate how this
   material is supported and assessed during the fieldwork phase of the
   program.
   Lines of Evidence
   If this material is primarily covered in required courses, syllabi from
   those courses will be sufficiently detailed and specific that the team
   can determine that all the material has been taught. If the program has
   multiple sections of required courses, evidence must be submitted to
   indicate quality assurance across all sections. Since the program must
   provide multiple opportunities to learn this material, the program must
   provide evidence of attention to this material in more than one course
   or area of the program. For example, while this material might be most
   heavily covered in a specific course about English learners, the
   subject-specific curriculum course might have a unit devoted to
   connecting the knowledge and skill needed for English learners with the
   particular demands of teaching the particular subject matter.
   In the program's assessment practices, there should be clear evidence
   that the program does assess its candidates on the material named in
   this standard and has provided multiple opportunities for candidates to
   show what they know both through regular assessments embedded in
   coursework as well as regular assessments embedded in fieldwork.
   Finally, the summative assessment used in the program should address
   the knowledge and skills named in this standard.
   Return to top of page...
   Page updated on January 22, 2002
