http://www.wapa.gov/energysrv.htm

                                                           Skip navigation

   Western Area Power Administration logo Security & privacy policy link
   Home page button

                            Doing business button

                                      I

                                 Jobs button

                                      I

                    Electric Power Training Center button

                                      I

                                 FOIA button

                                      I

                             Media Center button

                                      I

                           Energy Services button

                                      I

                               Contact button

                                             Nonfunctional graphic element

                           Power Marketing button

                           Power Operations button

                           Interconnecting button

                         Offices & Functions button

                             General Info button

                            Industry links button

   Nonfunctional graphic element

                                     Energy Services banner expanding line


   Energy Services Bulletin

   Technical assistance

   Go directly to the Energy Services Web site.

   Western’s Energy Services Program helps our customers improve energy
   efficiency, explore and use renewable energy options, find new
   technologies, and learn about programs and techniques at other
   utilities. Services include an equipment loan program, technical
   assistance , and a full menu of publications available both on-line and
   in printed version.

   Western’s bimonthly newsletter, Energy Services Bulletin, keeps
   customers informed about successful programs at other utilities,
   services available from Western’s Energy Services Program, marketing
   techniques, customer service, and technological developments. Besides
   printed and on-line resources, the energy Services program offers a
   telephone technical information service. The Power Line
   (www.es.wapa.gov/ta/powerline.cfm) is staffed by energy experts who can
   answer questions on nearly any energy-related topic. To access the
   Power Line by telephone, call 1-800-POWERLN (1-800-769-3756).

   Western also has a Non-hydro Renewable Resource Program that encourages
   the voluntary use of renewable resources. Its services include a Green
   Power and Market Research Newsletter that offers information on the
   availability of grants, renewable energy programs, legislation,
   marketing and other issues related to renewable resources. Western’s
   Energy Services program has its own Web site containing detailed
   information on Western’s programs, database of energy services and
   renewable energy information, and other useful tools.
