http://xml.gov/standards.htm


   spacer
   XML.Gov Logo flag
   spacer
                    spacer

   spacer
     Featured Subjects

   Skip Main Nav Bar link group
   XML Home & Site Map
   Working Group
     Schedule & Agendas
   Registered Efforts
   Standards & Guidelines
   Registries/Repositories
   Discussion & Tutorials
   Related Links

   Comment Button End of Main Nav Bar link group
   spacer Standards and Guidelines

   The Electronic Commerce Standards Roadmap is now available!
   Extensible Markup Language (XML)

   The Extensible Markup Language (XML) is the universal format for
   structured documents and data on the Web. The base specifications are
   XML 1.0, W3C Recommendation Feb 1998, and Namespaces , Jan 1999. The
   XML Activity Statement explains the W3C's work on this topic in more
   detail. (Excerpted from http://www.w3c.org/XML/ )

   An excellent source for all things XML is the XML Cover Pages. The XML
   Cover Pages provide up-to-date news, happenings, white papers, and
   tutorials. It is an excellent place to look for XML beginners and
   experts alike.

   Family of XML-related Recommendations

   Obviously there is more to XML than the base specification. The W3C web
   page can provide you direction to all of the XML-related
   recommendations

   Metadata Registry Specifications

   The power of XML can be found only if communities of interest are using
   the same XML vocabularies. These vocabularies, when placed in a
   registry, become available to all interested parties. There are a
   number of metadata specifications, some emerging and some
   well-established. The ISO/IEC 11179 family of specifications is one
   such well-established standard. The ISO/IEC 11179 Metadata Registry
   Implementation Coalition is a good place to explore ISO/IEC 11179.

   An emerging XML metadata registry specification is being developed by
   the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information
   Standards (OASIS). The Draft OASIS Metadata Registry/Repository
   Specification, based in part on ISO/IEC 11179, focuses on a
   registry/repository implemenation used to store SGML/XML documents.

   Electronic Commerce/XML-related Specifications

   An effort of emerging specifications for global business-to-business
   interchange is the ebXML effort. This is a joint project between the
   Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards
   (OASIS) and UN/CEFACT.

   Accessibility Guidelines and XML

   The W3C's Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) pursues accessibility
   through five primary areas of work: technology, guidelines, tools,
   education and outreach, and research and development. WAI is supported
   in part by the US Dept. of Education's National Institute on Disability
   and Rehabilitation Research.

   The W3C WAI PF draft note - 27 July 2000, edited by Daniel Dardailler ,
   presents an overview of the issues.



                    FirstGov Privacy Statement Webmaster

   Certified 508 Compliant 03/30/01
