http://bxatac.doc.gov/121301mpeminP.htm

   MEMORANDUM



   TO:                 Materials Processing Equipment Technical Advisory
   Committee


   FROM:            Charles F. Carter Jr., Chairman


   DATE:            December 20, 2001


   SUBJECT:            Minutes of Meeting Held on December 13, 2001



INTRODUCTIONS, AGENDA AND COMMENTS


   Self-introductions were made.  The Chairman asked if there were
   requests or changes to the agenda or comments from the public.  There
   were none.


MINUTES OF THE JUNE 19, 2001 MEETING


   The minutes were approved.


CHAIRMAN’S ANNUAL REPORT


   The Chairman asked for comments on or corrections to the Chairman’s
   Annual Report.  There were none.


GENERAL COMMENTS ON BXA AND USG ACTIONS


   There was discussion about the fact that the US is a leader in
   liberalizing the control parameters for computers, while at the same
   time being a leader for strict controls on machine tools.  Other
   nations see this as action to protect a large U.S. industry.  The U.S.
   justifies its action based on controllability and availability.  This
   action is taken in spite of the critical nature of computers in weapons
   development and weapons application.


LICENSE DENIAL AND UNDERCUTING


   The Nuclear Suppliers Group has a firm rule to prevent one nation from
   undercutting another when a license is denied.  The problem is that
   some nations notify others when an “intent to deny” is issued.  There
   is then a lengthy appeals process, and the license may or may not be
   denied.  In the meantime, all nations are on hold with respect to
   accepting an order from the customer named in the license request.
   Unfortunately, the USG waits to notify until the appeals process is
   complete.  By that time, a supplier in a cooperating NSG country may
   have picked up the order.


   Action:             George Loh will check on the status of a recently
   denied license with respect to

   notifying the other NSG members.


POST SHIPMENT VISIT


   Gus Sundquist has worked diligently to formalize documentation when a
   post shipment visit is called for on a license.  He stated at the
   meeting that the procedures should be approved by December 14.


UPDATE ON THE WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT AND RELATED ISSUES


   Tanya Mottley provided a review of actions in the Wassenaar Arrangement
   with emphasis on machine tools.  The validity note is at the center of
   all actions on machine tools.  Currently, all member nations are
   charged to provide data on two important aspects of the control.


   1.      Participants will provide data on the accuracy of linear scales
   used by machine tool builders, and also on the number or lines on a
   rotary encoder used in conjunction with a ball screw.

   2.      Participants will provide data on the processing requirements
   and accuracy requirements for selected critical weapons component.


   It was noted that the proposed prohibition on 5-axis machines is
   carried on even without regard to the fact that in some cases it may be
   an empty box (lathes), or that 5-axis may not be required for the
   manufacture of critical components.


   Action:             Committee members will submit ideas for the
   definition of 5-axis machines that are

   limited to special parameters making them suitable uniquely for the
   manufacture of named critical components.


SPECIALLY DESIGNED


   Even though there is a mandate that the Expert Working Group address
   the issue of “specially designed,” and some countries have proposed
   definitions, there is little motivation among participating countries
   in the WA to pursue this subject.  Tanya Mottley gave a good overview
   of the status.


   Action:             Tanya Mottley will provide to the TAC Australian
   input on this subject.  The TAC will

   review and comment.  Also, it was suggested that the TAC could make
   specific proposals with respect to changes to only four or five items
   in Category 2.  With limited and specific proposals the WA may be
   motivated to continue to move a step at a time.


CATEGORY 2 MATRIX GUIDE


   The matrix guide is now on the BXA Web site.  However, it is not easy
   for the casual observer to find.  A suggestion to BXA is that the
   matrix should be more clearly related as an aid to the Category 2
   listing.


LASER MEASUREMENT


   Ron Miskell suggested that the TAC should revisit the terminology
   relating to laser measurement devices.  These devices are found in the
   Wassenaar List under 2B.6.b.1.c.


NEXT MEETING


   The date for the next meeting will be determined at a later date.


ADJOURNMENT


   The meeting adjourned at 12:15 pm.
