http://jeeves.niehs.nih.gov/kids/home.htm


   Versión en Español
   Text Only Version
   Disclaimers & Policies NIEHS KidsPages Logo


                                               National Institute
                                                 of Environmental
                                                  Health Sciences
                                                     What's that? NIEHS Logo

     "Man shapes himself through decisions that shape his environment."
     Rene Dubos

                          Games &
                         Activities Robot Games Logo

                            Sing-Along
                            Songs     music notes

                        Brainteasers
                        & Riddles   a brain in a jar

                              Story
                              Time a story book

                          Color Our World
                         Bright & Beautiful crayons

                         Laugh It Up!
                         (Humor/Jokes) boy laughing

              Hot Topics,
          Careers, & Projects a scientist dancing with a test tube

                         Search the NIEHS Kids Pages
                            the NIEHS Kids Pages

                Cool Links
                & Resources a cool cat takes you to our links

   big pencil Thank you for visiting our website. We hope you have done so
    with the help of a parent or teacher, because that is the best way to
    safely explore the Internet. If you have any questions or ideas, send
   us an e-mail ! But first please read the "Important Information" below,
      and be sure to always ask permission from your parent or guardian
     before providing any information through the internet or by e-mail!
    And don't forget to bookmark this website so that you can return for
                                  more fun.

                                Colored Line

                           Important Information!

     * Please review our Children's Privacy Act Policy and information on
       accessibility assistance.
     * If you or someone else deserves credit for anything on this site,
       or if anything here should not be presented for any reason, please
       notify us immediately and we will promptly take care of it (see our
       Disclaimers and Site Purpose, Character of Use, and Presidential
       Authorization).
     * When you encounter this image link to a non-NIEHS site or the words
       "Non-NIEHS Link", it means that by following that link you will be
       leaving the NIEHS website. Although we review all linked sites when
       first added, they are maintained by other organizations and
       therefore could be changed without notice to NIEHS. NIEHS is NOT
       responsible for non-NIEHS websites; NIEHS endorsement of any
       portion of those sites is not implied; and NIEHS cannot assure you
       of the continuing safe content or the "privacy" provisions
       pertaining to those sites. Therefore, please ask your parent or
       guardian before visiting any non-NIEHS website, and especially
       before providing any information via the internet or by e-mail.
       When last reviewed, the websites linked from the NIEHS Kids Pages
       seemed suitable for you to visit, but that may have changed; if you
       have any difficulties or concerns with any linked materials, please
       let us know.

                       NIEHS Accessibility Assistance,
                      Privacy Act Notices, Disclaimers,
                            & Requests for Copies

   -=-
