http://www.eren.doe.gov/wind/faqs.html

   U.S. Department of Energy Wind Energy Program
   Program Structure Wind Energy Projects Wind Turbine Technology and
   Research Wind Energy Basics
   Wind Energy Basics
   Links
   Quick Facts
   Homeowner Help
   Resources for Teachers and Students
   Photos
   Frequently Asked Questions Spacer Shim
   Frequently Asked Questions

   Question: What happens when the wind stops blowing?

   Answer: Wind energy is an intermittent resource. When the wind blows
   between about 7 meters per second (16 miles per hour) and 27 meters per
   second (60 miles per hour), wind turbines can generate electricity.
   When the wind doesn't blow, or blows too hard, the turbines can't
   generate electricity. Unfortunately, the wind doesn't always blow when
   electricity is needed. Batteries can store only a modest amount of
   electricity to be used when the wind doesn't blow.

   Power producers that are installing wind turbines understand and plan
   for the intermittent nature of wind energy. They also appreciate that
   wind turbines offer a number of benefits that conventional generation
   doesn't: shorter construction lead times, modularity (more turbines can
   always be added if loads grow), no fuel costs, no air emissions, and
   higher customer approval. If the wind resource is well matched to peak
   loads, wind energy can effectively contribute to system capacity. Winds
   are often higher in the afternoon, for example, when electricity usage
   is high.

   Question: If this technology is so great, why isn't it everywhere?

   Answer: Wind technology is, in fact, the fastest-growing generation
   source in the world. In the United States, growth is slow because power
   producers have delayed construction of all types of new generation
   until uncertainties about utility deregulation are resolved.

   Despite the slowdown in new generation, the United States is
   experiencing the largest surge in utility-scale wind development since
   the 1980s. In 1998, more than 200 megawatts of wind energy was
   installed. Another 600 megawatts are projected to be on-line before
   2000. Low wind energy costs, combined with a Production Tax Credit of
   $0.017 per kilowatt-hour, have made wind energy projects financially
   attractive. The cost of electricity from the wind, however, is still
   higher than from conventional generation but other benefits add to the
   value of wind energy.

   Question: Are wind turbines hazardous to birds?

   Answer: Bird deaths are the most controversial biological issue related
   to wind turbines. The deaths of federally protected birds at a wind
   farm site in California has raised concerns by fish and wildlife
   agencies and conservation groups. On the other hand, several large wind
   facilities have operated for years with only minor impacts on birds.

   To prevent further bird deaths, both the wind industry and government
   agencies are sponsoring or conducting research into collisions,
   relevant bird behavior, and mitigation and avoidance measures at wind
   facilities. And project developers are conducting biological surveys to
   avoid choosing sites for new wind projects near major bird feeding,
   roosting, and resting areas, wetlands, rookeries, or low-level flight
   paths.

   Although bird mortality is a serious concern for the wind industry,
   structures such as smokestacks and radio and television towers have
   been associated with far larger numbers of bird kills than have wind
   facilities. Other sources of bird mortality, such as highways and
   pollution, are responsible for a much higher proportion of total bird
   deaths.

   Question: Are wind turbines noisy?

   Answer: Noise may be a concern to people living near wind projects.
   However, much of the turbine noise is masked by the sound of the wind
   itself, and the turbines only run when the wind blows. Noise from wind
   turbines has diminished as the technology has improved. Early model
   turbines are generally noisier than most new and larger models. As
   blades have become more efficient, more of the wind is converted into
   rotational torque and less into acoustic noise. Under most conditions,
   modern turbines are quiet.

   Question: Do wind turbines pose a safety hazard?

   Answer: Unlike most other generation technologies, wind turbines do not
   use combustion to generate electricity and hence don't produce air
   emissions. The only potentially toxic or hazardous materials are
   relatively small amounts of lubricating oils and hydraulic and
   insulating fluids. Therefore, contamination of surface or ground water
   or soils is highly unlikely. The primary health and safety
   considerations are related to blade movement and the presence of
   industrial equipment in areas potentially accessible to the public.
   Depending upon their locations, wind facilities may represent an
   increased fire hazard. And like all electrical generating facilities,
   wind generators produce electric and magnetic fields.

   Question: Is wind power cost competitive?

   Answer: Today, the cost of electricity from wind is about $0.05 or less
   per kilowatt-hour, which represents an 85% drop over the past 15 years.
   A modest federal Production Tax Credit, now valued at $0.017 per
   kilowatt-hour, is available to encourage wind energy development. Even
   so, wind must compete on a cost basis with other generation sources
   with costs of about $0.015 to $0.03 per kilowatt-hour. Recognizing that
   wind energy must be cost-competitive with other generation, the U.S.
   Department of Energy (DOE) has set a cost goal of $0.025 per
   kilowatt-hour by 2002 (at sites with annual average wind speeds of 7
   meters per second [15 miles per hour]). DOE is working with industry to
   develop these new, low-cost new turbines.

   Despite its higher cost, wind energy offers many benefits that add to
   its value. It is a clean, renewable technology that does not pollute
   the air with greenhouse gasses or other emissions. Wind energy projects
   bring economic development in the form of jobs, tax revenues, and land
   lease payments to rural areas. The wind is a free and domestic
   resource, which can reduce U.S. reliance on foreign fuel imports.

   Question: How has the technology improved since wind turbines were
   first developed?

   Answer: Turbines designs have improved since the 1980s, when a large
   number of turbines where put up in California. Many lessons were
   learned from the performance of these early designs. Thanks to the DOE
   Turbine Research Program, and the trend towards wind turbine
   certification, today's turbine designs undergo rigorous engineering
   analysis and testing before they are commercially available.

   Question: Are aesthetics a concern for wind farms?

   Answer: Wind projects have different visual impacts than most other
   electric generation technologies, in part because wind projects usually
   are located in rural or even remote areas, often with few nearby homes
   and only occasional human visits and use. Aesthetics may be an issue,
   depending upon the value people place on the visual quality of the
   project setting and other considerations. Strategies to minimize visual
   effects involve the spacing, design, and uniformity of the turbines,
   markings or lighting, roads, and service buildings.

           DOE Wind Energy Program Home   ||   DOE Wind Webmaster
