http://www.millenniumplan.ca.gov/front.body.html

                              [mill.front.header.gif]


                 [bullhead.gif]
   Sign Up For E-Mail Bulletins
              And Alerts TODAY!

      ETRPA CHALLENGES ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT FOR PROPOSED EL TORO AIRPORT
      Inevitable flights over densely populated cities not disclosed in EIR
      IRVINE, CA-November 20, 2001-Today the El Toro Reuse Planning Authority
   (ETRPA) filed suit in Orange County Superior Court against the County
   of Orange and the Board of Supervisors seeking to invalidate the
   Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the proposed El Toro airport.
   Chief among ETRPA's concerns is the failure of the EIR to disclose or
   analyze the environmental impact of take offs and departures to the
   west over Irvine, Newport Coast, Tustin, Orange and Santa Ana - some of
   the most densely populated communities in California.
   According to ETRPA's attorney Richard C. Jacobs, "The suit contains
   three main causes of action: First, the EIR is woefully inadequate and
   does not fully disclose the significant environmental impacts. Second,
   the county has turned the review process upside down, and used the EIR
   to justify a predetermined outcome, rather than as a tool in the
   deliberative process to determine what the use ought to be. Finally the
   county failed to submit the airport proposal to the Airport Land Use
   Commission before taking action, therefore the county's certification
   is illegal."
   ETRPA 's petition for a Writ of Mandate asks that the EIR be declared
   invalid, and cites violations to the California Environmental Quality
   Act (CEQA) due to the report's numerous deficiencies in its analysis of
   the Airport System Master Plan. "The County has made a mockery of the
   environmental review process," said ETRPA Chairman Allan Songstad. "The
   Supervisors decided to pick and choose what information to share with
   the public. They systematically ignored any data that cast a negative
   light on the airport plan. The result is an EIR that defies common
   sense."
   California law requires that the full environmental effects of a
   project be studied before approval is considered. However, by launching
   pro-airport public relations campaign months before the final
   environmental study was released, ETRPA believes the County violated
   CEQA.
   "An environmental impact report is intended to be just that-an
   examination of environmental impacts. It is meant to take an objective
   look into whether or not a project is a good idea based on the
   findings," ETRPA Executive Director Paul D. Eckles said. "Rather than
   conduct the EIR under its intended purpose, the County decided to build
   an airport, then built the EIR around its decision as a means of
   justification. That is a clear violation of the spirit and text of the
   law."
   The lawsuit states that EIR 573, approved by Board of Supervisors on
   October 23, contains serious flaws, such as excluding data and ignoring
   questions that emerged from public input. ETRPA also challenges the EIR
   for underreporting and misrepresenting the negative environmental
   effects an airport at El Toro would have on the surrounding
   communities.
   Issues raised in the EIR challenge include:
   Inaccurate Analysis of Flight Paths
   The County has stated that pilots flying out of El Toro will never use
   the western runway 25 for takeoffs, which would send planes directly
   over thousands of homes in Irvine, Tustin, Orange, Santa Ana and
   Newport Coast. However, pilots may request the use of any runway for
   safety reasons. Pilots' organizations, airlines, air traffic
   controllers and the FAA have all stated that the use of Runway 25 is
   inevitable. The EIR fails to acknowledge this possibility and did not
   include an examination of the environmental impacts resulting from the
   use of Runway 25. Similarly, the EIR does not examine arrivals on
   Runway(the eastern runway opposite runway 25), which would bring planes
   at a low altitude across central Orange County.
   Traffic, Noise and Pollution
   The County further violated CEQA in its traffic analysis. The County is
   required to evaluate traffic impacts based on existing infrastructure.
   Instead, it relies on unfunded and unapproved future road improvements.
   The EIR also fails to include adequate noise, air pollution and toxic
   air contaminant analyses -- all violations of CEQA. The air pollution
   analysis in EIR 573 also differs from the analysis in the earlier EIR
   563, without giving an adequate explanation for the difference in the
   numbers. Because EIR 573 is described as a "second-tier" EIR, it must
   use the same baseline data used for its predecessor
   .
   Failure to Respond to Comments
   The draft EIR was released December 23, 1999 and the final issued in
   August 2001. Over the 20 months the county had to complete the
   analysis, only a fraction of the comments and questions generated by
   the report were adequately answered. According to state law, prior to
   approving an EIR, the County is required to respond to comments and
   questions raised by the EIR's findings. However, the County dismissed
   or ignored numerous valid questions on the underlying assumptions,
   analysis and results put forth in the EIR. ETRPA 's suit states that by
   ignoring questions and in light of the FAA's recent conclusions that
   tairport would be inefficient, the County abused its authority. The
   County also provided inadequate and inconsistent responses to many
   other questions, including health impacts, noise, and the ability of
   other airports in the region to satisfy demand.
   Inconsistent Economic Data
   County Supervisors stated that the economic benefits of a 28.8
   million-passenger-per-year airport would outweigh the negative
   environmental effects. However, in approving an ASMP that would serve
   only 18 million passengers per year, and John Wayne would serve less
   than 4 million passengers (it currently serves about 7 million) the
   County did not consider whether the economic benefits would still be
   strong enough to outweigh the noise and air pollution caused by the
   airport for relatively modest net gain in airport capacity. There is no
   cost/benefit analysis provided to support their decision. The Board of
   Supervisors also concluded that the airport would not cost tax dollars
   assuming that the airport would receive large amounts of federal grants
   and funds. However, the FAA Airspace Determination concluded that the
   proposed ASMP would cause significant delays, meaning that the airport
   would be prohibited by federal law from receiving federal funds.
   Public Utilities Code Violation
   The County also violated the Public Utilities Code, which requires that
   counties submit plans for airports to a local Airport Land Use
   Commission prior to acting on any proposal, which the County failed to
   do. The County should have obtained approval from the ALUC both for
   considering building an airport at El Toro and also for changing the
   general plan of John Wayne Airport.
   "This is another example of the County's complete disregard for the
   law. The Supervisors continue to barge ahead with no respect for the
   process, apparently thinking that their approval supersedes the word of
   law," Jacobs said.
   To view an HTML version of the entire brief please click here.
   NAVY LETTER OUTLINES PROCESS FOR PUBLIC USES AT EL TORO
   IRVINE, November 7, 2001-The prospect for El Toro to be converted to
   either an airport or a non-aviation public use is still very much a
   continuing process with many steps and decisions still ahead, according
   to a letter obtained by Representative Dana Rohrabacher (R-Huntington
   Beach) from Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Installations and
   Environment, H. T. Johnson.
   Rohrabacher had asked the Defense Department to clarify a number of
   issues regarding the potential for El Toro's reuse as an airport in
   comparison to non-aviation public uses, particularly a park. According
   to Paul D. Eckles, Executive Director of the El Toro Reuse Planning
   Authority, "In his reply, Secretary Johnson was careful not to take
   sides with either pro-airport or anti-airport positions, but he did
   indicate that the door is open to a non-aviation use at El Toro. The
   key factor is the Local Reuse Authority, which is responsible for
   planning the reuse of El Toro, a responsibility that was originally
   vested with ETRPA, and later the County of Orange. In response to
   Rohrabacher's questions, Secretary Johnson explained a number of issues
   that have garnered much local debate and speculation."
   In the federal review process, the Navy is analyzing equally several
   options for El Toro, including aviation and non-aviation alternatives.
   "In the Draft Environmental Impact Statement, the Navy leaves open the
   possibility for a preferred alternative other than the airport option,"
   said Eckles. "The Millennium Plan, the original non-aviation plan for
   El Toro, serves as a general guideline for a plan that includes
   significant open space, recreational and public uses. The Navy could
   still approve a version of this original plan based on increased land
   area for parks. In fact, the Joint Navy/FAA environmental review is
   considering a reuse option based on the original Millennium Plan
   prepared by ETRPA."
   "This letter clearly debunks the notion by airport advocates that it
   will cost $400 million to purchase the land for the park. The land can
   be transferred at no cost for public benefit users," stated Eckles.
   "Clearly, the Navy can approve a public benefit conveyance for either a
   park or an airport. The important thing is to send a clear message from
   the citizens to the supervisors that a non-aviation use is preferred by
   the community."
   Airport proponents have claimed that the non-aviation advocates have
   missed the opportunity to apply for a public benefit conveyance and do
   not have a federal sponsor for non-aviation uses such as a park. "The
   Navy's letter refutes this claim," states Eckles. "The county has not
   completed the sponsorship process with the FAA for airport conveyance.
   For that to be complete, they would need approval from the FAA. In
   addition, the county does not yet have an approved Homeless Assistance
   Plan required by federal law to be part of its application to the Navy.
   The portions of the airport reuse plan identified for recreation and
   educational uses would also require sponsorship of the National Park
   Service and the Department of Education. Without these steps completed,
   both the airport and the non-aviation plan are on the same footing with
   regard to federal approval."
   Secretary Johnson's letter addressed a number of important issues,
   which have been debated by both sides of the El Toro issue. Included
   are the following clarifications:
   Statement: El Toro was closed specifically for reuse as a civilian
   airport. Johnson: "The 1993 Defense Base Closure and Realignment
   Commission recommended the closure of MCAS El Toro citing limitations
   on mission growth and force structure changes due to air and ground
   encroachment around the airfield. The commission's recommendation
   regarding closure of MCAS El Toro and realignment of aviation assets to
   other west coast facilities did not address the future use of the El
   Toro property."
   Question: Who has authority to receive El Toro property?
   Johnson: "The Navy has the discretion to convey property for public
   benefit purposes such as a commercial airport or parks, to convey the
   property to the State and local governments by negotiated sale, or to
   sell the property at public sale. In most cases, the disposal decisions
   of the military departments have been consistent with the reuse plan;
   however, the decision whether to convey property for a particular
   purpose is vested solely at the discretion of the Secretary of the
   Navy."
   Question: Are there time limits to apply for conveyances? (Implication:
   Has the time passed for a park conveyance?)
   Johnson: "The Department of Defense Base Reuse Implementation Manual
   (BRIM) urges the military departments to expedite the disposal process
   in order to assist communities with economic recovery and to reduce
   caretaker costs for the military departments. The time limits are
   notational and establish goals but do not create a legal bar to
   consider applications for property after these time limits have
   expired, especially where, as in the case of El Toro, a public benefit
   conveyance application would be submitted by the LRA itself."
   Statement: Clarify public benefit conveyance sponsorship.
   Johnson: "There is a specific federal sponsoring agency for each type
   of public benefit conveyance and, without the recommendation of the
   sponsoring agency, the property cannot be conveyed through the public
   benefit conveyance process. For example, for a public benefit
   conveyance for parks, the National Park Service (NPS) would recommend
   that the Navy assign the property to the NPS. The Navy would assign the
   property to the NPS, and the NPS then would sign the deed conveying the
   property to the State or local government applicant."
   Question: Who determines the highest and best use for the public
   benefit conveyances?
   Johnson: "As the disposal agency for the former MCAS El Toro, the Navy
   makes the determination regarding the highest and best use of a
   particular parcel. This may include the suitability of the property for
   a public purpose, such as a school or economic development as well as
   the potential monetary return to the government. A parcel may be
   suitable for more than one use. If an eligible entity makes an
   application for a public benefit conveyance, the sponsoring agency, in
   accordance with its regulations, will evaluate the eligibility of the
   applicant, its need for the property and the property's suitability for
   the intended purpose."
   Statement: Provide a legal opinion as to whether the Millennium Plan
   meets the required economic analysis to justify a transfer of the
   property under BRAC for the uses described in an Irvine-prepared report
   on the Millennium Plan. (The report is 'A Review of Potential Revenue
   Sources for Funding the Millennium Plan for MCAS El Toro' prepared by
   Irvine in 2000.)
   Johnson: "[T]he Navy cannot make any decisions on the disposal of the
   property until it complies with the NEPA. Therefore, it would be
   premature to evaluate whether the Navy would dispose of property to
   implement the Final Report."
