http://homeenergysaver.lbl.gov/hes/mission_dat.html

The Home Energy Saver Mission Statement

   May 10, 1999

  Mission

   The Home Energy Saver (HES, http://HomeEnergySaver.lbl.gov) web site is
   an interactive decision-support environment for residential consumers.
   Its aims are to increase consumer interest in energy efficiency and to
   foster market activities that capture those opportunities. The site is
   developed and maintained by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
   with sponsorship from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
   and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).

   The HES is integrally related to the Energy Star program, operated by
   EPA and DOE. The Home Energy Saver supports the federal energy mission
   by helping to build national recognition of the Energy Star brand and
   by enabling consumers to quantify the energy savings and environmental
   benefits that can be achieved by participating in the Energy Star
   program. The site is also used periodically by researchers as a tool
   for analyzing residential energy performance issues, and for learning
   from actual homeowners about their experiences with implementing
   energy-saving upgrades.

   The following seven objectives guide the development of the HES web
   site:
     * Support National Energy Policy - Contribute to the national goals
       of improved energy efficiency and pollution prevention.
     * Maximal Taxpayer Benefits - Increase consumer access to the results
       of previous taxpayer-funded energy information products and to
       research & development on energy efficiency at LBNL and elsewhere.
     * Nationwide Applicability - Ensure relevance to the diversity of
       U.S. climate conditions and housing stock.
     * Objectivity & Inclusiveness - Technology and fuel neutrality,
       coupled with credible and up-to-date analysis.
     * Transparency of Assumptions - Fully documented and based on
       non-proprietary assumptions/algorithms.
     * Advance Internet R&D - Help define and advance the technological
       cutting edge of web-based energy calculators and interfaces, and
       provide technology transfer to private sector software developers.
     * Ensure Ease of Use - Facilitate a positive and time-efficient user
       experience, and access to other relevant public and private web
       sites.

  HES Support for Private-Sector Vendors of Energy-Efficient Products, Services,
  and Tools

   An important aspect of our mission is to complement and enhance private
   sector business activities within the context of the aforementioned
   objectives. This is a natural extension of the technology transfer role
   that LBNL has played in the market for energy-efficient technologies
   and tools over the past 25 years.

   While the HES website does not endorse specific products or websites,
   it does actively help consumers reach the web pages of businesses that
   are active in this arena.

   Private-sector software developers have expressed interest in
   collaborating with HES. There are various ways to organize such
   technology transfer:
     * The HES project continues to develop and test new web-based methods
       for calculating and communicating energy efficiency information for
       residential consumers. The HES development team members are
       pioneers in the field of web-based calculators and interfaces, and
       continue to explore the cutting edge of the technology. Private
       developers can tap this expertise through consultation with the HES
       team, or through direct study and analysis of the web site and the
       documentation provided there.
     * The HES calculation methods and underlying data are clearly
       documented through the HES Help Module, and in the open literature.
       Other web-based tool developers are welcome to use this information
       at no cost, providing that the source is properly credited. Those
       wishing to utilize actual computer code from the HES site can
       access those materials through the LBNL's licensing process.
       Alternatively, private-sector developers may wish to directly tap
       the HES engine and servers to produce analyses for display within a
       user interface of their own design (rather than replicating the HES
       site on their own servers).
     * Within the HES resides a qualified repository of links to hundreds
       of relevant web sites, including other energy calculators, lists of
       energy efficient products, on-line readings, and state-by-state
       links to utility efficiency programs. Private-sector developers may
       wish to tap this repository for use within their own sites, or
       simply offer reciprocal links between sites. Users benefit from the
       value-added that LBNL offers in the recruitment of links, and in
       maintaining the resource.
     * The HES site also contains a significant amount of LBNL-authored
       content, such as FAQs, Help documents, and descriptions of retrofit
       measures. Private tool developers may wish to utilize some of this
       information in their products.

   There are no plans to introduce revenue-generating features such as
   e-commerce, auctions, advertising, or energy services, within the HES
   web site. Although it would conceivably increase traffic to the HES
   site, there are also no plans to offer broader "portal-types" of
   services such as stock quotes, free email, pager services, news
   headlines, or local weather.

   The ideas presented here are necessarily as dynamic as the energy
   efficiency marketplace itself, and of the Internet as an emerging media
   and information technology. We will endeavor to update the Home Energy
   Saver website to keep pace with these developments. Interested
   individuals are encouraged to contact us with their ideas and
   suggestions.
