http://www.familysupportcenter.maricopa.gov/andsodomoms.html

    Family Support Center
    Clerk of the Superior Court in Maricopa County
    Family Ties and Knots


      Articles  Ties & Knots Tying Up a Plan   Dads     Moms     Videos
                           Acknowledgements  Home

                               AND SO DO MOMS.

   It is not an exaggeration to say that mothers more than fathers tend to
   plant the seeds for their children’s mental health.

   Mothers tend to focus more than fathers on comforting, soothing and
   reassuring the child. When frightened or otherwise in need of
   comforting, the young child will nearly always turn first to the
   mother.

   Mothers also typically spend more time with the child, especially in
   the infant and toddler years, feeding, bathing, grooming and otherwise
   providing for the child’s basic care. These care-taking routines are
   vital to the child developing a sense of trust and security.

   The most fundamental emotional need of a child is to feel secure. In
   the degree that this need is met the child can expect to grow up
   feeling whole. When this need is not met, the child is at risk to
   suffer from life-long anxiety problems. Sadly, this is an
   understatement. The rapid pace of change and the deterioration of
   "community" in the modern world have made all of us vulnerable to
   anxiety problems. The principal ailment of modern society IS anxiety.
   In brief, those emotional needs to which mothers are attuned, have
   become even more vital.

   It is unfortunate that so many parents both fathers and mothers do not
   appreciate what the other parent has to offer the child. Mothers focus
   more on meeting the child’s emotional needs. Fathers focus more on
   expectations for the child’s behavior. The child needs both! Obviously,
   the child has a better chance with two parents who are actively
   supportive and involved.

   Submitted by Ron Neff, Conciliation Services, Superior Court in
   Maricopa County.

   For Additional Information, See:

   Coley, Rebekah. (1998) Children’s socialization experiences and
   functioning in single-mother households: the importance of fathers and
   other men. Child Development. 69(1):219-230.

   McLanahan, Sara, and Julien Teitler. (1999) The consequences of father
   absence. In Michael Lamb (ed.) et al., Parenting and child development
   in "nontraditional" families. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,
   Inc.

   Salem, Deborah, and M. Zimmerman, and P. Notaro. (1998) Effects of
   family structure, family process, and father involvement on
   psychosocial outcomes among African American adolescents. Family
   Relations. 47(4)331-341.

   Visit DADS COUNT TOO

   [shim.gif] [fsctop.gif]
