http://nh.water.usgs.gov/WaterData/index.htm

   Link back to Water Resources of NH/Vt home page

       Water Data News & Events Publications Current Projects District
    Information USGS Information Related Links Outreach & Education NH/VT
                                    Home
   Water Resources of New Hampshire and Vermont
   Water Data

   Please note: Most USGS water data for the United States is currently in
   the National Water Information System (NWIS) data retrieval system. If
   your bookmarks no longer work, you may need new NWIS URLs. Older links
   will be removed within a few months.
   Real-time and historical surface-water and ground-water data
   NWIS data base contains tables, graphs, maps, or customized options for
   streamflow, stage data, discharge records, ground-water levels, water
   quality, rainfall, continuous sampling, discrete sampling, conductance,
   temperature, and daily, monthly, and annual statistics. Use drop-down
   menus for data category, predefined displays, and display option
   parameters.
   Real-time streamflow gaging station image map showing watersheds
   Monthly surface- and ground-water conditions
   Water resources data for New Hampshire and Vermont
   All annual data is available in printed form from the District. Online
   reports are available for 2000, 1999, 1998, and 1997.

   Stream measurement outreach and educational site
   Learn how stream measurements are collected.

   Water watch
   View streamflows by realtime, daily, weekly and monthly.
   Water use
   Get information about water use across the nation.


       Water Data News & Events Publications Current Projects District
    Information USGS Information Related Links Outreach & Education NH/VT
                                    Home

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   New Hampshire/Vermont District, USGS, 361 Commerce Way, Pembroke, NH
   03275, USA
   Comments and feedback: NH/VT webmaster-nh@usgs.gov, 603-226-7837
   Section 508 accessibility problems contact Debra Foster:
   dhfoster@usgs.gov, 603-226-7837
   Last Updated September 28, 2001
   Privacy Statement || Disclaimer
