http://www.team.ars.usda.gov/faq.html

   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
   _______________________________________________________________________

   TEAM Leafy Spurge: Working Together to Purge Spurge If you have
   additional questions or don’t see your question listed here, please
   visit our feedback page and fill out the form or e-mail us with your
   question. We'll do our best to get back to you with an answer to your
   question.

   Biological Control
   Grazing

   Biological Contol

   Q:  Where do flea beetles come from?

   A:  Aphthona flea beetles are natives of Europe and Asia, and are
   widely dispersed across a large geographic area – they’re found as far
   east as China and as far west as France. There is also a North American
   leafy spurge flea beetle, but it appears to have relatively little
   impact on leafy spurge. Ironically, leafy spurge is generally not a
   problem in its native lands, where flea beetles and other enemies
   maintain infestations at economically unimportant levels. In fact,
   entomologists looking for new biocontrol agents overseas often have
   difficulty finding large patches of spurge.

   Q:  Will flea beetles eat crops or other economically valuable plants
   if they run out of leafy spurge?

   A:  No. All imported biocontrol agents, including Aphthona flea
   beetles, are quarantined and rigorously tested before being imported
   and released. If any potential for damage to crops or economically
   important plants is identified during this process, the candidate agent
   will not be approved or imported. This process has shown that Aphthona
   flea beetles are very host-specific and feed only on a narrow range of
   hosts restricted to the spurge family. We will soon have a page giving
   the step-by-step description of the quarantine and host-specificity
   testing process so be sure to come back and visit our What's New? page
   for this and other new pages and updates.

   Q:  What about other leafy spurge biocontrol agents?

   A:  To date, 15 different insects (including six different Aphthona
   flea beetles) have been tested, approved and released for biological
   control of leafy spurge. Significant success at controlling leafy
   spurge, however, has been achieved by only the A. nigriscutis and A.
   lacertosa flea beetles. Other insects have either failed to establish
   populations, or have established limited populations that have not had
   a significant impact on spurge infestations. Following are brief
   descriptions for a few of the other leafy spurge biocontrol agents. The
   long-horned beetle (Oberea erythrocephala) and clear-winged moth
   (Chamaesphecia spp.) are "stem-miners" that cause damage in two ways:
   Adults lay eggs in stems, then the larvae hatch and burrow down the
   stem – weakening the stem and stressing the plant – and into the root
   crown, where they feed and cause additional damage. Oberea could
   potentially be important in moist, sandy soils where flea beetles don’t
   work well. The gall midge (Spurgia esula) is a tiny gnat that lays its
   eggs in leafy spurge flowers, which produces a gall that prevents seed
   production. While these agents have generally not produced significant
   spurge control, their long-term impact is not yet known. It’s possible
   that some might play important roles in certain situations or when used
   in combination with other agents. In addition, researchers are always
   looking for new biocontrol agents, particularly insects that can fill
   niches or habitats not occupied by agents that are currently available.

   Q:  Where do I get flea beetles?

   A:  This is a very common question. It’s always best to start looking
   locally. Flea beetles obtained from local sources won’t have to be
   stored and transported far, and are more likely to be adapted to local
   conditions. If you are unable to locate local sources through your
   county Extension agent or weed officer, contact your state department
   of agriculture or nearest USDA-APHIS PPQ office. (see our Local
   Contacts Page)

   Q:  Will harvesting flea beetles this year reduce next year’s
   population, and will it retard leafy spurge repression?

   A:  No, and no. There are always plenty of unharvested beetles, and
   normal population development will continue even with extensive
   collection efforts. Likewise, harvesting your flea beetles will not
   impact the population’s ability to repress or control leafy spurge.

   Q:  Can flea beetles withstand long, harsh winters?

   A:  Flea beetles have proven they can survive the long, harsh winters
   common in the northern Great Plains by establishing populations and
   controlling leafy spurge. There is some speculation, however, that a
   lack of snow cover to provide insulation, combined with extended
   periods of extremely cold weather, can adversely impact flea beetle
   populations. Additional research into the topic is needed.

   Q:  How large of a patch of spurge is needed for flea beetles?

   A:  This is a common, but difficult to answer, question. Flea beetles
   can establish populations on small patches of spurge (a half-acre or
   less), but may eliminate such patches and be unable to maintain a
   population. Generally speaking, a moderate to dense patch of spurge, a
   half-acre or more in size, is needed to establish AND maintain a
   population. On a related topic, scattered patches are OK but scattered
   plants aren’t – flea beetles cannot establish or sustain a population
   on scattered plants.

   Q:  Can I spray over flea beetles with herbicides?

   A:  As mentioned in the Biological Control Manual, herbicides and flea
   beetles can indeed be used together. The key is timing: Fall and early
   spring applications can enhance population establishment by reducing
   densities and opening the spurge canopy. However, late spring or summer
   applications will remove the spurge top growth flea beetles need to
   complete their life cycle, and should thus be avoided in situations
   where you are attempting to start or maintain a population.

   Q:  Can I spray over flea beetles with insecticides?

   A:  Flea beetles are obviously susceptible to insecticides. In some
   situations, however – a severe grasshopper outbreak, for example – the
   use of insecticides cannot be avoided. If the use of insecticides at an
   established flea beetle site is unavoidable, leaving small areas
   untreated can provide "reservoirs" of flea beetles that will help
   sustain populations.

   Top

   Grazing

   Q:  Where can I find good quality sheep to graze leafy spurge?

   A:  There are a number of quality livestock auctions in the northern
   Great Plains that handle large runs of high quality breeding stock.
   Ranchers interested in grazing sheep as a leafy spurge management tool,
   however, will likely need to do some planning. For example, it’s much
   easier to buy sheep in the fall and over-winter them instead of trying
   to find and buy sheep in the spring. One option is to buy ewe lambs in
   the fall, over-winter them, graze them on spurge the first year then
   start a breeding program. County extension agents can sometimes provide
   information on local sources of sheep, and in some cases, may know of
   sheep that are already trained. In addition, each state in the northern
   Great Plains has an Extension sheep specialist who will be able to
   provide advice and information on your particular state.

   Q:  Can you use mature sheep that are intended for the kill market?

   A:  Absolutely. Studies show that sheep gain a lot of weight during a
   season of grazing leafy spurge. In fact, leafy spurge is high in crude
   protein, is easily digested and provides especially good forage for
   lactating ewes and lambs.

   Q:  Will grazing leafy spurge impact normal sheep functions such as
   growth, breeding, etc.?

   A:  No it will not. In fact, sheep grazing leafy spurge will actually
   outperform sheep grazing native range. This is simply due to the high
   quality of forage that leafy spurge exhibits.

   Q:  Do I have to completely re-fence my operation, and do I have to use
   woven wire?

   A:  Research studies have found that adding one to two extra wires on a
   pre-existing 3- to 4- strand barb wire fence will work. It is
   recommended to use a 5- to 6- strand barb wire fence to successfully
   keep sheep in. A four to six strand electric fence will also work well.
   Woven wire is not really needed. It is also recommended that the
   perimeter fences be the most substantial in your management plan.

   Q:  How much of a diet overlap would one expect to see between cattle
   and sheep, and what stocking rate is recommended?

   A:  Dietary overlap of cattle and sheep can be high or low depending
   upon biodiversity, forage diversity and availability, environmental
   conditions, and management. The dietary overlap can range from 30% to
   70%, however, when grazing cattle and sheep on leafy spurge infested
   rangeland the dietary overlap has the potential of being low until a
   significant reduction in leafy spurge occurs. Once this happens,
   individuals need to consider reducing the number of sheep in order to
   reduce the competition for desirable, available forage for cattle, yet
   still be effective in controlling leafy spurge.

   Proper stocking rates are essential in gaining control of leafy spurge.
   It has been found that an average of one to two sheep per acre of leafy
   spurge for a four-month grazing season is required to maintain
   acceptable control.

   Q:  Do you need to train naive sheep to consume leafy spurge before
   releasing them out to pasture?

   A:  There is some debate on this subject. Many people believe that
   sheep need to be trained to eat leafy spurge. Research studies have
   used naive sheep and experienced sheep. From these studies it was
   concluded that it largely depends on the diversity of the plant
   community and sometimes the breed of sheep. It has been observed that
   when a plant community is diverse in broadleaf plants, which are
   preferred by sheep, there usually is a delay in the sheep selecting out
   leafy spurge. After this period they develop an acquired taste for
   leafy spurge and will readily consume it.

   Q:  What can one expect to see in the control of leafy spurge using
   sheep? (example: first grazing season, second, etc.)

   A:  Depending on the type of grazing treatment and stocking rate used,
   you will typically see an increase in leafy spurge densities after the
   first year. This is not a bad thing. What this is saying is that you
   have put stress on the plant. The increase in leafy spurge densities is
   from the adventitious root system, triggered by the grazing to put up
   more shoots. After the second and third year a reduction should be
   noticeable. Depending on the management and growing seasons 75 to 85
   percent reduction can be expect by years five and six.

   Q:  When should I begin grazing sheep on leafy spurge?

   A:  Sheep should begin grazing leafy spurge as soon as it reaches 3 to
   4 inches in height, typically around the 15th of May. This growth is a
   key component in the control of leafy spurge. By turning them out when
   the plant is 3 to 4 inches tall, it will allow the sheep to prevent the
   majority of the leafy spurge plants from going to seed.

   Q:  What do you use for predator control?

   A:  There are many techniques that are beneficial. Using dry mature
   ewes with cow/calf pairs has reduced losses; however, the most common
   methods of control used today are donkeys, dogs, llamas, and the use of
   the local USDA Plant and Animal Control division (Government Hunter and
   Trapper).

   Q:  When using a rotational grazing system should I run the sheep
   together with the cattle or should I graze them ahead of the cattle?

   A:  Sheep can be run with the cattle, however, there are some
   precautions that should be used. Producers that creep feed their calves
   may want to run the sheep ahead or behind the cattle in the rotation to
   prevent the sheep from consuming their desired creep feed. Also sheep
   are sensitive to copper. This may cause a problem in areas were copper
   is deficient and producers use higher copper content to supplement
   their cattle. Thus it would be more appropriate to run sheep and cattle
   independent of each other.

   Q:  What would happen if I grazed the sheep for three to four years and
   removed them, would the leafy spurge come back?

   A:  The answer is yes. Within two to three years the leafy spurge will
   be back to the original density without implementing any other control
   method. The use of sheep in a long-term management plan is essential.
   Although you might not see any leafy spurge you still have a viable
   seed bank and viable adventitious roots.

   If you have additional questions or don’t see your question listed
   here, please visit our feedback page and fill out the form or email us
   with your question. We'll do our best to get back to you with an answer
   to your question.

   Top

                               TEAM Home Page
