http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/about/about.htm

    The NIDCD conducts and supports research and disseminates information
   on disorders of human communication, including hearing, balance, smell,
   taste, voice, speech, and language.

   [space.gif]
   Donate to NIDCD
   About NIDCD

     Director's Page

     Council and Committees

     Public Participation

     Organization

     Employment

     Diversity Initiatives
   Search this site
   _________ Go!
   [space.gif] [space.gif]
   About NIDCD
   NIDCD's Mission: Present and Past
   The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
   (NIDCD) is one of the Institutes that comprise the National Institutes
   of Health (NIH). NIH is the Federal government's focal point for the
   support of biomedical research. NIH's mission is to uncover new
   knowledge that will lead to better health for everyone. Simply
   described, the goal of NIH research is to acquire new knowledge to help
   prevent, detect, diagnose, and treat disease and disability. NIH is
   part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

   Established in 1988, NIDCD is mandated to conduct and support
   biomedical and behavioral research and research training in the normal
   and disordered processes of hearing, balance, smell, taste, voice,
   speech, and language. The Institute also conducts and supports research
   and research training related to disease prevention and health
   promotion; addresses special biomedical and behavioral problems
   associated with people who have communication impairments or disorders;
   and supports efforts to create devices which substitute for lost and
   impaired sensory and communication function.

   It is estimated that more than 46 million people in the United States
   suffer some form of disordered communication. NIDCD has focused
   national attention on disorders of human communication and has
   contributed to advances in biomedical and behavioral research that will
   improve the lives of millions of individuals with communication
   disorders. NIDCD has made important contributions to the body of
   knowledge needed to help those who experience communication disorders
   and to advance research in all aspects of human communication.

   NIDCD accomplishes its mandate through the Division of Intramural
   Research, which conducts research in laboratories at the NIH, and the
   Extramural Research Program, a program of research grants, career
   development awards, individual and institutional research training
   awards, center grants, and contracts to public and private research
   institutions and organizations. As a whole, the Institute supports and
   conducts approximately 600 research projects. The Institute also
   conducts and supports research and research training in disease
   prevention and health promotion and the special biomedical and
   behavioral problems associated with people having communication
   impairments and disorders.

   NIDCD's extramural grant portfolio demonstrates a balance of basic and
   clinical research. The intramural research program spans a variety of
   topics, including, but not limited to, the development of a vaccine
   against otitis media, the identification and characterization of genes
   responsible for hereditary hearing impairment, genes associated with
   neoplasms affecting human communication, and treatment of voice
   disorders.

   For more information, see Important Events in NIDCD History.

   Whom To Contact
   For information about programs and projects, call or write:

   Office of Health Communication and Public Liaison
       National Institute on Deafness and
       Other Communication Disorders
       National Institutes of Health
       31 Center Drive, MSC 2320
       Bethesda, MD 20892-2320
       Voice: (301) 496-7243
       TTY: (301) 402-0252

   Health Information |  Strategic Planning |  Research Funding |
   Intramural Research |  News & Events |  About NIDCD |
   FAQs |  Site Index |  Search |  Contact Us |  Home
   [dots.gif]
   Text-only version
   Web Privacy Policy
   Site Information
   top
   [space.gif]
   National Institute on Deafness and
   Other Communication Disorders
   National Institutes of Health
   31 Center Drive, MSC 2320
   Bethesda, MD USA 20892-2320
