http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/press/release.cfm?p=443E7674-E268-487C-9A2984230FE55C8E

   Press Office - Attorney General Home Press Office - Picture Press
   Office- Grid Press Office - Search, Sitmap, Contact Us
   Press Office Press Office Public Education Public Protection Criminal
   Law Special Features

   Press Office
       Home

   Press
                                  Releases

                                  Consumer
                                 Advisories

                               Current Issues

                                   Tobacco
                               Litigation Site

                                Commonwealth
                                 vs. Lambert

                                    News
                                  Resources

                                    Years
                                  in Review

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]

   AG Fisher Intervenes in Michigan-based Quality Store Inc., Bankruptcy:
                Obtains Refunds for Gift Certificate Holders

                      Issued: Friday, January 18, 2002
                            Contact: 717-787-5211

   HARRISBURG Attorney General Mike Fisher today announced that
   Pennsylvania consumers holding Quality Farm & Fleet or Central Tractor
   Farm & Country gift certificates purchased between November 1 and
   December 31, 2001, will be allowed to use the certificates or obtain a
   cash refund. The order, requiring the stores to honor the certificates,
   was signed today by a federal Bankruptcy Court judge in Michigan after
   Fisher and four other Attorneys General intervened in the Chapter 11
   filing.

   "We recently received dozens of complaints from consumers around the
   state who purchased these gift certificates after the company filed for
   Chapter 11 Bankruptcy in late October 2001," Fisher said. "When the
   filing became public at the end of December, the company no longer
   honored the certificates. This ruling allows Pennsylvania consumers to
   make purchases with the certificates or apply for a cash refund."

   Fisher and Attorneys General from Michigan, New York, Ohio and West
   Virginia intervened in the case after receiving consumer complaints
   against the chain. Quality Stores Inc., doing business as Quality Farm
   & Fleet or Central Tractor Farm & Country has stores in 15 Pennsylvania
   counties.

   Fisher's Bureau of Consumer Protection argued that the company
   willingly sold gift certificates to consumers knowing it was seeking
   Chapter 11 Bankruptcy protection and was not likely to honor the
   certificates. The stores in Pennsylvania are currently open to sell off
   the company's remaining inventory and assets according to a separate
   Bankruptcy Court order.

   Under the judge's order, consumers who obtained the gift certificates
   between Nov.1 and Dec. 31 may redeem them for merchandise at the store
   or request a cash refund. Consumers seeking a cash refund must send the
   original gift certificate to:
   Quality Stores, Inc.
   455 East Ellis Road
   P.O. Box 3315
   Muskegon, MI 49443-3315
   Att: Gift Certificate Redemption Center

   Fisher said Quality Stores will issue refund checks to eligible
   consumers within 10 business days. The company sold approximately
   $814,000 in gift certificates between Nov. 1 and Dec. 31. The order
   does not prohibit the states from pursuing other unrelated consumer
   complaints.

   Consumers who already sent their original gift certificate along with
   their "proof of claim" filing to federal Bankruptcy Court in Michigan,
   will receive an automatic cash refund.

   The Commonwealth's case is being handled by Deputy Attorney General
   Leslie M. Grey of Fisher's Bureau of Consumer Protection Office in
   Erie.

   # # #

   releases/text/18Jan2002-ag_fisher_intervenes_in_michigan-based_quality_
   store_inc-,_b.html
