http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=61

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   OFFENDER REENTRY


   But They All Come Back: Rethinking Prisoner Reentry

   This short article published by the Department of Justice outlines a
   reentry model and elements needed to make it work. Reentry management
   approaches that reintegrate offenders into the community and prevent
   recurring antisocial behavior are explored and the need for the
   judiciary to play a greater role is emphasized.

   Dept. of Justice Field Reports from Reentry Courts and Partnerships

   The reentry court concept draws upon the authority of the court to
   promote positive behavior of returning offenders, similar to the
   approach drug courts use in managing the behavior of drug offenders.
   The Reentry Partnerships Initiative is a Federal effort to assist
   jurisdictions in facing the challenges presented by the return of
   offenders from prison to the community.

   From Prison to Home: The Dimensions & Consequences of Prisoner Reentry

   This June 2001 publication by Jeremy Travis, Amy Solomon, and Michelle
   Waul of the nonprofit Urban Institute looks at the reentry process. It
   covers how prison release decisions are made, the type of challenges
   reentering offenders face, and the impact release can have on offender
   families and the community. This report is in a PDF format.

   Links to Reentry Related Organizations

   This page maintained by the Department of Justice Office of Justice
   Programs has links to federal and nonprofit organizations related to
   the topic of offenders reentering the community.

   Offender Reentry Materials Published by the Department of Justice

   This link includes articles that feature information about ways of
   effectively reintergrating offenders into the community; new prison
   programs designed to ease the adjustment of offenders back into the
   community; and the promising practices of cities and states. It also
   has information about how to subscribe to the Reentry Report
   newsletter.

   Police-Corrections Partnerships

   This report by the National Institute of Justice and the COPS Office
   describes 14 police-corrections partnerships from various
   jurisdictions, analyzes the barriers the jurisdictions had to overcome
   to start the partnerships and the problems they had to solve to make
   them work as intended, and examines central issues that jurisdictions
   should consider when starting new police-corrections partnerships. This
   report is in a PDF format.

   Prisoner Releases: Trends and Information on Reintegration Programs

   This report of the U.S. General Accounting Office to the U.S. Congress
   includes facts and figures about prison releases and reintegration
   programs. It focuses on the federal correctional system and the young
   offender initiative. This report is in a PDF format.

   Programs for Ex-Offenders

   This page links to 8 articles on the National Criminal Justice
   Reference Service web site that generally discuss programs for
   ex-offenders or focus on specific city and state programs.

   Successful Job Placement For Ex-Offenders: The Center for Employment
   Opportunities

   Many offenders have difficulty finding permanent, unsubsidized,
   well-paid employment after release because they lack job-seeking
   experience, a work history, and occupational skills; furthermore, many
   employers refuse to hire individuals with criminal records. These
   circumstances seriously affect an ex-offender's stability because
   unemployment is consistently associated with high recidivism rates.
   This short publication explores these issues. This file is in a PDF
   format.

   The Report from the Focus Group Dangerous Opportunity: Five Futures for
   Community Corrections

   For two days in December 1998, thoughtful leaders and innovators in
   probation and parole gathered for a strategic discussion sponsored by
   the Department of Justice. This report captures the essence of the
   conversation around the following questions: I) Are we at the dawn of a
   golden age of probation and parole? Has practical and scientific
   knowledge accumulated to the point where improved community supervision
   of offenders can make a big difference to the public? II) Or is this a
   moment of great risk and vulnerability? With correctional resources
   increasingly allocated to imprisonment, does community corrections have
   the operational capacity to produce something the public wants? Would
   public value flow from reinvestment in probation and parole
   supervision.

   When Prisoners Return to the Community: Political, Economic, and Social
   Consequences.

   This article was published by the Department. of Justice's National
   Institute of Justice in Novebmer 2000. It is intended to distill the
   judgments of leading practioners and scholars about the strengths and
   weaknesses of current practices and about the most promising ideas for
   future developments in the field of offender reentry.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
