http://kids.mtpe.hq.nasa.gov/droplet.html

   Droplet and the Water Cycle

   Launch
   PC Download MAC Download
   Directions

   Once upon a time
   high above the earth, fluffy white clouds drifted through the
   atmosphere. In the clouds lived a little Droplet of water, round and
   content with life. For as long as he could remember, he spent his days
   lying on his back, relaxing and soaking up the sun's warm rays. One
   day, he took his usual place in the sun but the light didn't seem to be
   as bright. In fact, as the day went on, it grew darker and darker, loud
   claps of thunder shook the cloud, and the Droplet felt as if he were
   getting so heavy he could hardly move.

   Suddenly, the Droplet felt himself falling from the cloud. Down, down,
   down he fell, farther and father from home. At last he landed on the
   earth, in the dark green foliage of the rainforest. Around him as far
   as he could see were tall trees, dense green leaves, red mushrooms and
   multicolored insects of every shape and size. Strange creatures
   surrounded him, and the sounds and sights were like nothing he had ever
   seen or heard before. All he was sure of was that he wanted to go back
   home. But how?

   And so begins the adventure of Droplet, the water molecule, as he
   enters the great water cycle- condensation, precipitation,
   infiltration, runoff, and evapotranspiration-and starts his journey
   home. Your task, as you play this game, is to get him safely through
   the forest, into the river, and out to sea so that the sun can warm him
   once again and help him get back to the clouds. You can make Droplet
   run, jump, climb, slide, take rides on passing leaves, and stun his
   enemies. But the trip will not be easy. All creatures on earth need
   water to stay alive. In the forest, he can get slurped up by
   butterflies and praying mantises. In the river and the ocean, sharks,
   turtles and other sea creatures pose other challenges! And beware of
   hidden traps in the ocean floor! Good luck and have a safe trip!

   Responsible NASA Official: Sharron Sample
   Curator: SAIC Information Services
   Date: November 29, 2001
