http://recruiting.calguard.ca.gov/ourstory.asp


   [USEMAP:test.gif]


                [WelcomeTo.gif]

                [army.gif] [salute.gif]

                                         [NatiionalGuard.gif]


   [ISMAP:rightmenu.gif]-[USEMAP:rightmenu.gif]


   Home! Contact Us, Recruiter Search Links to other sites! Events
   Calendar! Virtual Recruiter! Logon!

   Our Story
   What keeps America Free?

   Long before the Declaration of Independence was written... a century
   before Thomas Jefferson drafted the Bill of Rights... even before the
   first of our thirteen colonies raised a flag, there were Americans
   fighting for freedom.

   These brave souls weren't soldiers by trade. They were farmers,
   doctors, and blacksmiths. But to protect their new home in the
   Massachusetts Bay Colony, they joined hands and formed militia units
   during times of common danger. They became the famous Minutemen ---
   ordinary colonists who could be called upon at a minute's notice to
   defend their colony.

   The "YOU CAN" spirit that compelled those settlers to become citizen
   soldiers has been part of our American heritage for more than 360
   years.

   Today, over 350,000 patriotic Americans with the same "YOU CAN" spirit
   have volunteered to become members of the Army National Guard. Ordinary
   citizens who, like their forefathers, are always prepared to keep our
   nation "The Land of the Free."

   Call Out The National Guard!

   Natural disasters can strike our country in the same fierce way a
   vicious enemy does--- without warning, with blinding speed, and with
   merciless force. A swollen river can become a raging torrent with just
   an inch more rain. Out of a blustery night sky, a twister can pounce on
   a sleeping suburban town. Fluffy snowflakes can be the seeds of a
   deadly blizzard. This is why the greatest strengths of the Army
   National Guard are its speed and its proximity.

   Because there are Guard units in cities and towns all over America, and
   state's governor can send the Guard directly into action. Guard members
   are men and women that not only know how to deal with local
   emergencies, they also know the lay of the land, giving them every
   possible advantage.

   Almost every month, newspapers chronicle the brave and humanitarian
   deeds of Guard members. Scores of lives are saved, millions of dollars
   in property are spared, and families are helped to weather violent
   storms. Yet there are hundreds of other local missions which are rarely
   reported. The Guard helps educate underprivileged children, works to
   keep illicit drugs out of our schools, blazes roads into inaccessible
   areas, and airlifts precious medicine and supplies to those in need.

   All of this is why when America is in a time of crisis, it knows what
   to do: "Call Out the National Guard!"

   Give us 24 Hours and We Will Give You an Army.

   The Army National Guard is America's most powerful invisible weapon.
   Until they're mobilized, Guard members are ordinary members of society.
   Hundreds of thousands of people from every walk of life and every part
   of the nation.

   What makes these people different is their unswerving commitment to the
   safety of our country and the training that keeps them ready to
   maintain it. They've studied at U.S. Army technical schools; practiced
   the same tactics, maneuvers and strategies as soldiers in the Army.
   They've even operated the same Army equipment, fired the same weapons,
   and drilled under the same rugged conditions. This is why in the event
   of national crisis or conflict, the Guard can be integrated into
   America's Total Force in a matter of hours.


            HOME CONTACT US LINKS EVENTS REGISTER     LOGIN
            P R I V A C Y   A N D   S E C U R I T Y   N O T I C E
