http://ees.lanl.gov/pdfs/PrgRpt2000D-bluebird.pdf

   Environmental Restoration, Water Resources, and Drilling Risk
   Assessment Using Nesting Bird We are studying cavity-nesting western
   bluebird populations around LANL to to Test Predictions confirm results
   of previous ecological risk studies. We are also developing and from
   Ecological testing nonlethal indicators of ecological risk that can be
   applied to multiple Risk Assessments spatial scales of assessment. To
   prepare for the field tests, we applied a hazard quotient (HQ) model to
   J. M. Fair (jmfair@lanl.gov) and 4,000 sampling locations and obtained
   an index of relative hazard across LANL. M. Ebinger (EES-10) Using this
   relative-hazard index, we ranked the relative exposure of the western
   bluebird to environmental contamination in the LANL area. We placed
   more O. B. Myers (EHA, Inc.) than 425 nest boxes across the putative
   hazard gradient indicated by HQ values to test whether the HQ values
   correlate well with ecological risk measured at nest-box-to-landscape
   scales. To determine if exposure to contaminants had measurable effects
   on specific variables, we measured nesting growth rates, developmental
   asymmetry, immune system function, parasitism, and survival. In
   parallel, we conducted laboratory experiments to explore relationships
   between environmental stress and bio-indicator response levels in more
   detail. Our results indicate that contaminants did not have an adverse
   effect on nestling survival. It is likely that the difference between
   predicted and measured risk can be explained by differential
   bio-availability between chemicals in the environment and the toxicity
   threshold values, which were not considered in the HQ model.
   Measurements of developmental stability from two laboratory studies and
   the nest-box field work demonstrated a cost of producing antibodies
   when nestlings were confronted with non-pathological immunological
   challenges. This result is relevant to assessing the impacts of
   multiple stressors, such as disease and contaminants, for ecological
   and human health risk assessment. Spatial variation in bluebird
   nestling survival within years was detected across the Los Alamos
   landscape. We are developing analysis approaches that account for
   spa-tial autocorrelation of measurements to ascertain whether variation
   in survival is a function of stress caused by contaminants or caused by
   other factors. We are currently working with the institutional
   environmental ecology group (ESH-20) to move this activity into the
   long-term surveillance program for the Laboratory. Progress Report
   19982000 Earth and Environmetal Sciences 121
