http://exchanges.state.gov/education/citizens/professl/

   U.S Dept. of State-Policy


      E   d   u   c   a   t   i   o   n   a   l      a   n   d      C   u
     l   t   u   r   a   l      A   f   f   a   i   r   s
      P r o f e s s i o n a l   E x c h a n g e s

                                    Links
                                Requests for
                              Proposals (RFPs)

                              Cultural Programs
                               Youth Programs
                               Europe/Eurasia
                                  Division
                                    home
                                   Citizen
                                  Exchanges
                                  Homepage

     The Office of Citizen Exchanges supports professional programs that
     take place in the United States and overseas. These exchanges
     demonstrate how Americans deal with the issues of professional
     interest to the foreign participants. In addition, programs are
     designed to give Americans international and cross-cultural
     perspectives. These programs normally have two or more components
     and may extend over more than one fiscal year. They may include
     travel by American specialists overseas and visits of foreign
     specialists to the U.S. as part of the same, coordinated program.
     Introductory tours of the United States generally are not supported.

     Subject areas for Office of Citizen Exchanges include conflict
     resolution, environmental protection, trade unions, education
     administration and curriculum reform, media development, judicial
     training, local government, intellectual property rights, rule of
     law, public administration, small business development and
     management training, citizen networking, and other academic and
     professional disciplines. Emerging leaders and young professionals
     in a range of fields are preferred for participation in these
     programs.

     Following a thorough review and independent paneling of all
     technically eligible proposals, and based on recommendations by
     various Department of State offices, funding decisions are made by
     the Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural
     Affairs.

     The Office of Citizen Exchanges has three divisions that manage
     professional-level grants within geographic areas:

     Europe/Eurasia Division (including the Community Connections
     Program)
     Near East, South Asia and Africa Division
     Western Hemisphere and East Asia and the Pacific Division

     hr
     For further information, contact:
     Office of Citizen Exchanges (ECA/PE/C)
     Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs
     U.S. Department of State
     SA-44, 301 Fourth Street, S.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20547
     Telephone: 202-619-5348
     Fax: 202-619-4350
     hr
     Top of page
