http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/hilldeathtaxoped.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report


             The Federal Death Tax, Entrepreneurship, and Ethics

                                  The Hill

                               April 25, 2001

   By Rep. Christopher Cox

   Imagine you have a silent business partner.  The partner offers no
   start-up capital, assumes no risk, and is not liable when you lose
   money.  But year in and year out, your partner takes one-third to
   one-half of all the profits.

   Years go by and your business grows.  With hard work and dedication,
   you have built a farm, or a restaurant, or a newspaper.  Your
   enterprise employs dozens, maybe hundreds of people—men and women whose
   livelihoods, and families, depend on you.

   You have planned for the future.  Knowing that the employees you have
   mentored will want to continue to build the business, you have written
   a will designed to ensure that business lives on.  But when the day
   arrives, your silent partner appears amid the turmoil of your family’s
   grief.  This partner now demands that you liquidate the business,
   paying him half of everything.

   Sound far-fetched?  It shouldn’t.  Your silent partner is the federal
   government.  Even after taxing your business and your workers every
   year, the federal government demands one last, enormous dividend of
   over half of the after-tax value of the enterprise.

   Known technically to tax lawyers as the estate and gift tax, it is
   familiar to most Americans as the Death Tax.  Its burden can exceed 60
   percent of your after-tax life savings.

   To the federal government, it doesn’t mean much: The tax produced
   barely one percent of federal receipts last year.  It’s also the most
   expensive of all taxes to collect: nearly 65 cents of every dollar is
   consumed in compliance, administration and litigation costs.

   Its effects are perverse.  While meant to break up large concentrations
   of wealth, the Death Tax is the number one reason that family farms,
   ranches, and small businesses are chopped up and sold in pieces to
   multinational conglomerates.  The super-rich don’t pay much of it; they
   can afford sophisticated lawyers and accountants to legally avoid the
   tax with extraordinarily complicated trusts and similar legal devices.
   The heaviest weight of the Death Tax falls on low-wage workers, who pay
   a 100 percent tax when they lose their jobs.

   Predictably, disadvantaged minorities are hit the hardest by the
   unintended consequences of the Death Tax.  By far the best hope for
   improving the standard of living from one generation to the next is for
   minority-owned businesses to grow and prosper.  But a 1995 Kennesaw
   State College study found that half of minority businesses failed or
   were unable to grow because of the legal, accounting, and insurance
   costs of funding the Death Tax.

   The truth is, abolishing the Death Tax—as California did by an
   initiative of the people passed with nearly two-thirds of the
   vote—would promote economic growth.  In 1993, the Institute for
   Research on the Economics of Taxation did an eight-year forecast after
   Death Tax repeal, and found that our economy would have grown by $80
   billion more.  More than 225,000 jobs would have been created.  Capital
   available for investment in the productive sector of the economy would
   have been $640 billion greater.  Had we heeded this advice when it was
   first brought to our attention, we would be reaping these benefits
   today.

What about the ethics of the Death Tax?  Government imposes “sin taxes” on
cigarettes and alcohol.  “If we have to tax something,” so the logic goes,
“why not tax behavior that is damaging to society and individuals?”  The
Death Tax, however, stands this logic on its head.  The Death Tax is the
opposite of a sin tax.  It is, in fact, a tax on virtue.

       Edward McCaffrey, a self-described political liberal and a member
   of the faculty at the University of Southern California, has labeled
   the Death Tax a “virtue tax” precisely because it taxes the kinds of
   behavior we should want to encourage: savings, investment, and most
   importantly, hard work.

   After you have worked to put food on the table, clothes on your back,
   and a roof over your head, the most powerful reason you have to
   continue working is to provide for your family or your loved ones.  The
   Death Tax seeks to repeal this powerful instinct of human nature,
   discouraging additional work by the most experienced of our society.

   It is time to kill the Death Tax.
