http://www.nh.nrcs.usda.gov/About_NRCS/NR_Volunteers.htm


   [USEMAP:NRCSbanner.jpg]



            Natural Resource Volunteer Training Opportunity 2002

   Do you know someone interested in learning more about New Hampshires
   trees, water, and wildlife and serving their community?

   A Natural Resource Volunteers educational series for Community Tree
   Steward and Earth Team volunteers is being offered this winter.

   Application form (pdf)
   Earth Team logo

   Beginning Tuesday, February 5^th at the Urban Forestry Center in
   Portsmouth and on Friday, February 8^th at the University Center in
   Manchester.  Each site will host the ten session series to be held on
   Tuesdays or Fridays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. through April 13 and are free
   of charge.

   In return, participants are asked to volunteer time through a wide
   variety of projects and activities that help improve natural
   resources.  The series is being sponsored by UNH Cooperative Extension,
   the NH Division of Forests and Lands, and the U.S. Forest Service, in
   partnership with the Natural Resources Conservation Service, and the
   Hillsborough, Rockingham and Strafford County Conservation Districts.

   Together the organizations promote awareness and care of natural
   resources in New Hampshire's cities and towns.  Over the past eight
   years, volunteers from over eighty New Hampshire communities have
   helped create wildlife habitat, planted and cared for community trees,
   and promoted healthy watersheds and green spaces.


   If you know someone who would like to help improve the natural
   resources in their community by becoming a Natural Resource Volunteer,
   have them contact Mary Tebo, Community Forestry Coordinator, at
   629-9494, extension 140 or Priscilla Johnston at NRCS for more
   information on the program or to register.


   Click here for our Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

Last update of this document on December 2001
Report problems or errors to webmaster@nh.nrcs.usda.gov
