http://www.mocbhe.gov/Acadafrs/progrev.htm

   If you do not have JavaScript enabled or are using an older browser you
   will not be able to view our page correctly. Please proceed to our Text
   Only Version.

   Higher Education Seal jpg Missouri Department of Higher Education gif
   banner gif
   About Us | Calendar | Employment  | Text Only  |  Contact Us | MO State
   Page
   Home | Help Desk/FAQ | Life Sciences in Higher Education

   dividing_line

    Policies and Procedures for the Review of Academic Program Proposals
                    (Adopted April 17, 1997 by the CBHE)

                  .....with changes as of October 13, 2000
     __________________________________________________________________

       New Academic Programs | Off-Site Delivery of Existing Programs
          Web-Based Courses and Programs | Program Changes | Forms

   1. Introduction The Policy for the Review of Academic Program Proposals
   is an essential component for achieving the programmatic initiatives
   contained in the Coordinating Board's Blueprint for Missouri Higher
   Education regarding institutional mission enhancements, technical
   education, funding for results, and a telecommunications-based delivery
   system.

   These policies and procedures will help ensure that Missouri's higher
   education institutions continue to offer high quality, student-centered
   programs that effectively serve the citizens of the state. The most
   efficient use of state resources requires that institutions maintain
   these high standards, collaborate whenever possible, and design
   programs that avoid unnecessary duplication in a service region. In
   cooperation with institutions in both the public and independent
   sectors, these policies and procedures have been carefully designed to
   further these important goals.

   2. Statutory Responsibility

   Chapter 173 of the Missouri Statutes charges the Coordinating Board for
   Higher Education with several responsibilities, including:

   • ... approval of proposed new degree programs to be offered by the
   state institutions of higher education . . . (Section 173.005(1), RSMo)

   • ... collect the necessary information and develop comparable data for
   all institutions of higher education in the state . . . (Section
   173.005(7), RSMo)

   • ... requesting the governing boards of all state-supported
   institutions of higher education and of major private institutions to
   submit . . . proposed policy changes . . . and make pertinent
   recommendations relating thereto . . . (Section 173.030(1), RSMo)

   • ... recommending to the governing board of any institution of higher
   education in the state the development, consolidation or elimination of
   programs, degree offerings, physical facilities or policy changes where
   that action is deemed . . . in the best interests of the institutions .
   . . (Section 173.030(2), RSMo)

   The Coordinating Board discharges these responsibilities primarily
   through data collection and the systematic review of proposals for new
   academic programs, off-site delivery of existing programs, and changes
   in existing programs. In the case of public institutions, the
   Coordinating Board approves or disapproves academic program proposals.

   3. Program Review Policies for Independent Institutions

   To maintain an understanding and appreciation of the contributions made
   by the independent sector, and consistent with the report on
   Coordinating Board for Higher Education and Independent Institution
   Relationships adopted by the CBHE in 1982, these policies also extend
   to independent institutions with the following exceptions:
     * Flexibility in the application of these criteria is appropriate to
       accommodate the specialized mission of independent institutions and
       to acknowledge the differences between public and independent
       institutions as well as the different degrees of responsibility and
       authority the Coordinating Board and state have in the operation of
       the respective sectors.

     * Proposals submitted by independent-sector institutions will be
       received and reviewed in the context of the statewide system of
       higher education. While the CBHE does not approve or disapprove
       programs at independent institutions, it may make pertinent
       comments as it deems appropriate.

   4. Delegation of Authority and Communication with the Academic
   Community

   The Coordinating Board's responsibilities for academic program review
   are delegated to the Commissioner of Higher Education. The status of
   the proposal submitted to the CBHE for review will be accessible on the
   CBHE web site Upon completion of a review, action by the Commissioner
   will be sent directly to the institution. All actions of the
   Commissioner will be reported to the Coordinating Board as an
   information item at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Final
   authority for all program actions remains with the Coordinating Board.

   5. Guiding Principles

   The academic program review process must support the development of
   those desirable characteristics for Missouri's system of higher
   education that were adopted by the Coordinating Board for Higher
   Education in December, 1992. They include:
    1. Higher education and vocational-training services of the highest
       quality that are truly competitive on a national and international
       level;
    2. A coordinated, balanced, and cost-effective delivery system;
    3. A range of vocational, academic, and professional programs that are
       affordable and accessible to all citizens with the preparation and
       ability to benefit from the programs;
    4. Differentiated institutional missions and implementation plans,
       both among and within sectors, designed to meet state needs and
       goals with a minimum of program duplication; and
    5. Systematic demonstration of institutional performance and
       accountability through appropriate assessment efforts.

   6. Serving Statewide Needs

   The CBHE policy on the review of academic programs seeks to accomplish
   the following in the context of serving statewide needs:
    1. To distinguish program changes that merely need to be noted for the
       purpose of an accurate statewide program inventory from program
       changes that are substantive in nature;
    2. To distinguish between programs which are being initiated at a
       particular institution from existing programs which are targeted
       for delivery to new sites;
    3. To increase professional peer involvement in the review of program
       proposals;
    4. To promote a common vocabulary and definitions for program review,
       while encouraging common course-naming and use of CIP
       classification codes;
    5. To address cooperative initiatives among institutions in the
       delivery of higher education programs; and
    6. To move requests for new academic programs, off-site delivery of
       existing programs, and program changes through the approval/comment
       process in a timely manner.

   7. Essential Characteristics of Proposals

   In general, each proposal should exhibit:

   1. A good fit with institutional mission, the filling of a demonstrable
   need, and the best use of resources in light of the
   contributions of existing programs and the benefits of collaborative
   efforts.

   2. A description of:
           a. Program structure that provides enough essential and
   relevant detail with which to make an evaluation;
           b. Aspects of the program that promote program quality,
   including accreditation potential; and
           c. Program characteristics and procedures, including
   performance goals, that will become the basis for follow-up reviews of
   all academic programs.

   3. Information about program finances (for public institutions only) in
   a concise, consistent format for all proposals.

   The policies and procedures on academic program review are intended to
   be rigorous but flexible enough to meet new challenges without excess
   regulation. The review process ensures a solid foundation for the
   design of quality academic programs.

   8. Alignment with External Accreditation

   Decisions to seek program accreditation remain with the institution. In
   disciplines for which there are established standards for program
   accreditation, CBHE program review will be informed by these standards.
   In instances when the institution is seeking program accreditation,
   self-studies and other relevant materials developed can be submitted in
   lieu of preparing separate supporting documentation.

   9. Special Issues

   A. Use of Consultants: On those occasions when the evaluation of a
   program proposal requires special expertise, the Commissioner may
   recommend the services of an external consultant to assist in the
   process. The selection of a consultant shall be agreeable to all
   parties, and the cost shall be the responsibility of the sponsoring
   institution.

   B. Programs Reviewed Jointly by the CBHE and the Department of
   Elementary and Secondary Education: An institution requesting financial
   reimbursement for a new program from vocational/technical funds
   administered by DESE must submit a proposal in the CBHE format to both
   agencies. In general, DESE will not consider a financial reimbursement
   request for a program unless it is a component of a degree or
   certificate program approved by the CBHE.

   C. Appeals:

     Public Institutions

     Any of the following parties may initiate an appeal of the
     Commissioner's action regarding a program review:

    1. The institution that submitted the original proposal;
    2. Any public Missouri higher education institution that believes its
       interests are adversely affected by the Commissioner's decision; or
    3. Any member of the Coordinating Board for Higher Education.

   A letter of intent to appeal, signed by the chief executive officer
     of the institution, must be received by the Commissioner within
     thirty (30) days of the official notice of the Commissioner's
     decision. Regardless of the source of an appeal, all material
     related to an appeal must be shared with all parties associated with
     the proposed program. New programs may not be implemented while an
     appeal is pending.

     All materials, including a rationale for the appeal, must be
     submitted to the Commissioner and the relevant parties within
     fourteen (14) days after a letter of intent to appeal has been
     filed. The rationale and the responses of the Commissioner will be
     placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
     CBHE, provided the meeting is scheduled at least fourteen (14) days
     after the receipt of all materials. The CBHE may refuse to hear the
     appeal, may resolve the issue at that meeting, or may establish a
     schedule for further action. All decisions of the CBHE are final.

     Independent Institutions

     The Commissioner will receive appeals originating from independent
     institutions regarding the concerns and perspectives expressed by
     the Commissioner to the respective institution. The resolution of
     such appeals will be handled on a case-by-case basis.

   back to top


   10. Review Process for New Programs

   10.1 Requests for a New Program: General Outline

   Step 1. A new program proposal must be received at the CBHE by the
   13^th of each month. Included in the request should be a full/complete
   proposal (see Specific Format for a Complete Proposal below) in two
   forms: (a) a hard copy, with appropriate signatures on the cover page,
   and (b) an electronic version, sent either as an e-mail attachment
   (preferred) or on a diskette. Institutions submitting proposals that
   involve collaborations/partnerships must include letters of support
   from collaborators or partner institutions. Collaborative efforts
   involving both public- and independent-sector institutions will be
   treated like public institution proposals.

   Step 2. An institution's request will be forwarded to the academic
   community by two means: First, the full proposal (minus the Financial
   Projections section) will be posted on the CBHE web page on the 15th of
   each month. Second, notice will be sent electronically to all chief
   academic officers.

   Step 3. The academic community will have twenty (20) working days to
   respond to an institution's new program request by raising questions,
   asking for additional information, or making comments. All such
   questions, requests, or comments shall be in writing and directed to
   the "Person to contact for more information", as listed on Form NP, as
   well as to the CBHE Associate Commissioner for Academic Affairs.
   Proposing institutions will have the opportunity to furnish a written
   response to the CBHE Associate Commissioner for Academic Affairs if
   they choose to do so and to decide whether to withdraw or proceed with
   the proposal. A written response is not needed to proceed. Record files
   for institutions that proceed will include all comments and responses.

   Step 4. Independent institutions are not required to submit financial
   projections except when a proposed program involves a cooperative
   relationship with a public institution. Once a proposal is complete, a
   recommendation will be sent to the Commissioner for action. The
   institution will be notified of the Commissioner's action, and the
   action will be reported to the CBHE at its next regularly scheduled
   meeting.

   Normally, program reviews should be completed within 45 working days
   after being officially posted.

   10.2 Specific Format Required for a Complete Proposal

   A complete proposal should contain the following information in this
       order and numbered this way:

   1. New Program Proposal Form: Please complete Form NP

     2. Need:

   A. Student Demand:

     i. Estimated enrollment each year for the first five years for
     full-time and part-time students (Please complete Form SE.)

     ii. Will enrollment be capped in the future?

   B. Market Demand:

     i. National, state, regional, or local assessment of labor need for
     citizens with these skills

   C. Societal Need:

     i. General needs which are not directly related to employment

   D. Methodology used to determine "B" and "C" above.

     3. Duplication and Collaboration: If similar programs currently
     exist in Missouri, what makes the proposed program necessary and/or
     distinct from the others at public institutions, area vocational
     technical schools, and private career schools?

     Does delivery of the program involve a collaborative effort with any
     external institution or organization? If yes, please complete Form
     CL.

     4. Program Structure: Please complete Form PS

     A. Total credits required for graduation
     B. Residency requirements, if any
     C. Courses and credits required for general education
     D. Courses and credits required for the major
     E. Number of free elective credits remaining (Sum of C, D, and E
     should equal A)
     F. Requirements for thesis, internship, or other capstone
     experiences
     G. Any unique features, for example, interdepartmental cooperation

     5. Financial Projections (for public institutions only): Please
     complete Form FP. Additional narrative may be added as needed. If
     more than one institution is providing support, please complete a
     separate form for each institution.

     6. Program Characteristics and Performance Goals: See the
     recommended format and issues to be addressed (Form PG). For
     collaborative programs, responsibility for program evaluation and
     assessment rests with the institution(s) granting the degree(s).

     7. Accreditation: If accreditation is not a goal for this program,
     provide a brief rationale for your decision. If the institution is
     seeking program accreditation, provide any additional information
     that supports your program.

     8. Institutional Characteristics: Please describe succinctly why
     your institution is particularly well equipped or well suited to
     support the proposed program.

     9. Any Other Relevant Information:

   back to top

   11. Review Process for Off-Site Delivery of Existing Program

   As a result of technology, institutions have an increased number of
   alternatives for delivery of certificate and degree programs to
   students at remote sites. These policies and procedures refer to sites
   that are in Missouri, and which involve primarily synchronous delivery
   through the use of traveling faculty, remotely located faculty, and/or
   the use of two-way interactive video.

   This process should be used when an institution intends to provide an
   opportunity for students to pursue a full degree off site in Missouri
   or advertises a new offering to the general public in a fashion that
   implies that a full program will be offered in Missouri at a site
   remote from the main campus. For two-year institutions, the main campus
   is defined as the institution's taxing district.

   Institutions that intend to offer programs in other states are expected
   to abide by the program approval policies of the host state.

   11.1 Request For Off-Site Delivery Of Existing Program: General Outline

   Step 1. A proposal for the off-site delivery of an existing program
   must be received at the CBHE by the 13^th of each month. Included in
   the request should be a full/complete proposal (see Specific Format for
   a Complete Proposal below) in two forms: (a) a hard copy, with
   appropriate signatures on the cover page, and (b) an electronic
   version, sent either as an e-mail attachment (preferred) or on a
   diskette. Institutions submitting proposals that involve
   collaborations/partnerships must include letters of support from
   collaborators or partner institutions. Collaborative efforts involving
   both public- and independent-sector institutions will be treated like
   public institution proposals.

   Step 2. An institution's request will be forwarded to the academic
   community by two means: First, the full proposal (minus the Financial
   Projections section) will be posted on the CBHE web page on the 15th of
   each month. Second, notice will be sent electronically to all chief
   academic officers.

   Step 3. The academic community will have twenty (20) working days to
   respond to an institution's request for off-site delivery of an
   existing program by raising questions, asking for additional
   information, or making comments. All such questions, requests, or
   comments shall be in writing and directed to the "Person to contact for
   more information," as listed on Form OS, as well as to the CBHE
   Associate Commissioner for Academic Affairs. Proposing institutions
   will have the opportunity to furnish a written response to the CBHE
   Associate Commissioner for Academic Affairs if they choose to do so and
   to decide whether to withdraw or proceed with the proposal. A written
   response is not needed to proceed. Record files for institutions that
   proceed will include all comments and responses.

   Step 4. Independent institutions are not required to submit financial
   projections except when a proposed program involves a cooperative
   relationship with a public institution. Once a proposal is complete, a
   recommendation will be sent to the Commissioner for action. The
   institution will be notified of the Commissioner's action, and the
   action will be reported to the CBHE at its next regularly scheduled
   meeting.

   Normally, program reviews should be completed within 45 working days
   after being officially posted.

   11.2 Specific Format Required for a Complete Proposal

     A complete proposal should contain the following information in this
     order and numbered this way:

     1. Off-site Delivery Proposal Form: Please complete Form OS.

     2. Need:

     A. Student Demand:

   i. Estimated enrollment each year for the first five years for
       full-time and part-time students
       (Please complete Form SE.)
       ii. Will enrollment be capped in the future?

     B. Market Demand:

   i. National, state, regional, or local assessment of labor need for
       citizens with these skills

   C. Societal Need:

   i. General needs that are not directly related to employment

   D. Methodology used to determine "B" and "C" above.

     3. Duplication and Collaboration: If similar programs currently
     exist in Missouri, what makes the proposed program necessary and/or
     distinct from the others at public institutions, area vocational
     technical schools, and private career schools?

   Does delivery of the program involve a collaborative effort with any
       external institution or organization?
       If yes, please complete Form CL.

     4. Financial Projections (for public institutions only): Please
     complete Form FP. Additional narrative may be added as needed. If
     more than one institution is providing support, please complete a
     separate form for each institution.

     5. Program Characteristics and Performance Goals: See the
     recommended format and issues to be addressed (Form PG). Please
     submit the Program Characteristics and Performance Goals for the
     program at this site as well as for those of the equivalent
     on-campus program. For collaborative programs, responsibility for
     program evaluation and assessment rests with the institution(s)
     granting the degree(s).

     6. Quality Assurance for Off-Site Programs:

     A. General Oversight: Describe the manner in which this program will
     be managed. How does the management of this program fit within the
     institution's academic administrative structure?

     B. Faculty Qualifications: How do the qualifications of faculty at
     this site compare with those of faculty for this program at the main
     campus? Please also note the comparable data regarding the
     proportion of course-section coverage by full-time faculty at each
     site.

     C. Support Services: Describe how the institution will ensure that
     students at this site will be able to access services such as
     academic support, library, computing, and financial aid, as well as
     other administrative functions, at a level of quality comparable to
     that of on-campus programs.

     7. Any Other Relevant Information

   back to top

   12. Web-Based Courses and Programs

   On April 13, 2000, the Coordinating Board adopted the Principles of
   Good Practice for Distance Learning and Web-Based Courses developed by
   the CBHE staff and the Committee on Technology and Instruction (CTI).
   These principles apply for asynchronous programs delivered in an
   Internet, web site environment, through satellite transmission or via
   distribution of audiovisual and/or print material.

   Principles of Good Practice for Distance-Learning/Web-Based Courses

   When providing courses and programs through distance-learning methods,
   institutions should establish standards and encourage academic
   integrity equivalent to those expected of courses offered in a
   traditional, campus-based environment. These Principles of Good
   Practice, adapted from the 1999 Guidelines for Distance Education by
   the North Central Association Commission on Institutions of Higher
   Education (NCA), are suggested as a guide for Missouri institutions as
   they develop and implement courses for, and assess their involvement
   in, distance education and web-based course delivery.

   The intent of these principles is to encourage reflection on quality
   and best practices, as faculty and institutions negotiate the rapidly
   changing and sometimes unfamiliar territory that such courses
   inherently have. Institutions are encouraged to operationalize these
   principles in locally directed ways that result in meaningful steps
   toward ensuring high quality.

   I. Distance-learning courses and programs, including web-based courses,
   should maintain high academic integrity.
     * Institutions should ensure both the rigor of courses and the
       quality of instruction.

     * Institutions should ensure that the technology used is appropriate
       to the nature and objectives of each course.

     * Institutions should ensure the currency of materials, programs, and
       courses.

     * Each institution’s distance education policies regarding ownership
       of materials, faculty compensation, copyright issues, and
       utilization of revenue derived from the creation and production of
       software, telecourses, or other media products should be clear and
       in writing.

     * Institutions should provide appropriate faculty support services
       specifically related to distance education.

     * Institutions should provide appropriate technological and
       pedagogical training for faculty who teach distance education
       courses/web-based courses.

     * Faculty should engage in timely and adequate interaction with
       students and, when appropriate, should encourage interaction among
       students.

     * Institutions should ensure that distance-learning courses and
       web-based courses apply toward degrees and that there is sufficient
       explanation to the distance learner as to how those courses apply
       toward degrees.

   II. Distance-learning and web-based courses and programs should be
   assessed and evaluated regularly.
     * Institutions should assess student capability to succeed in
       distance education programs and should apply this information to
       admission and recruiting policies and decisions.
     * Institutions should evaluate the educational effectiveness of their
       distance education programs and web-based courses (including
       assessments of student-learning outcomes, student retention, and
       student satisfaction) to ensure comparability to campus-based
       programs.

     * Institutions should ensure that the performance of
       distance-learning faculty and faculty involved in providing
       web-based courses is evaluated in a fashion that is at least as
       rigorous as that used to evaluate the performance of their peers
       who do not teach distance-learning courses.

     * Institutions should ensure, to a reasonable extent, the integrity
       of student work.

   III. Institutions involved in distance education and web-based
   instruction should ensure that students have access to adequate
   resources and services.
     * Institutions should have access to the equipment and technical
       expertise required for distance education.

     * Institutions should ensure that students have access to, and can
       effectively use, appropriate library resources (through traditional
       and electronic means), including MOBIUS, a consortium of Missouri’s
       academic libraries.

     * Institutions should monitor whether students make appropriate use
       of learning resources.

     * Institutions should provide laboratories, facilities, equipment,
       and software appropriate to the courses or programs and/or make
       clear to students the responsibilities they have to provide their
       own such equipment.

     * Institutions should provide adequate access to a range of student
       services appropriate to support distance-learning courses and
       programs, including (but not limited to) admissions, enrollment,
       assessment, tutorials, special needs access, financial aid,
       academic advising, delivery of course materials, placement, and
       counseling.

     * Institutions should provide an adequate means for resolving student
       complaints.

     * Institutions should provide students with information that
       adequately and accurately represents the programs, requirements,
       and services available.

     * Institutions should ensure that students enrolled in courses
       possess the knowledge and equipment necessary to use the technology
       employed in the program and should provide aid to students who are
       experiencing difficulty using the required technology.

   back to top

   13. Review Process for Program Changes

   A change in an academic program needs to be submitted to the
   Coordinating Board for both informational and review purposes. After
   considering the requested changes, the Commissioner may determine that
   the program change should be submitted instead as a new program
   proposal. Program changes should be reported using the "Request Program
   Change" form. Please complete Form PC. Program changes that should be
   submitted include the following:

   Program Title Change: All revisions or changes in the name of a program
   or its nomenclature shall be reported to the CBHE. A title or
   nomenclature revision that includes substantive curriculum changes may
   be deemed tantamount to a new program and may be referred back to the
   institution for resubmission as a new program.

   Combination Programs: This category includes only those programs that
   result from a mechanical combination of two previously existing
   programs. Substantive curricular changes shall ordinarily be limited to
   the elimination of duplicated requirements. The development of
   interdisciplinary programs and area-study programs that use the
   resources of several existing programs needs to be handled through the
   new program approval process.

   Single-Semester Certificates: Given the limited scope of this type of
   program, a single-semester certificate may be added or deleted simply
   by using the "Request for Program Change" form. The establishment of a
   longer program, however, should be pursued through the "Review Process
   for New Programs."

   One-Year Certificate Programs: A one-year certificate program developed
   from an approved program can be reported as a program change provided
   the program is directly related to an approved degree program and
   consists predominantly of courses included in the approved parent
   degree program. A one-year certificate not associated with an approved
   parent degree program should be submitted as a new program.

   Option Addition: The addition of a specialized course of study as a
   component of an umbrella degree program may be submitted as an
   option-addition program change, subject to the limitation that the
   Commissioner shall make a determination regarding the potential for
   unnecessary or inappropriate duplication of existing programs. Only in
   those instances in which duplication is not a problem, may the proposed
   option be implemented. The following general guidelines are used to
   distinguish a permissible option addition from a proposed new degree
   program.

     A. An option (or emphasis area) functions as a component of an
     umbrella degree program. As such, an option in a specialized topic
     shall consist of a core area of study in the major plus selected
     topical courses in the specialty. Although typically, the core area
     of study shall constitute a preponderance of the requirements in the
     major area of study, especially at the baccalaureate level or below,
     as measured by the number of required courses or credit hours, no
     specific percentage distribution requirement has been established.

     B. A proposed option (or emphasis area) shall be a logical component
     or extension of the umbrella degree program. One measure of this
     compatibility–but certainly not the only one–would be the consonance
     of the proposed addition with the federal CIP taxonomy. For example,
     in physics, while optics would be an appropriate option or emphasis
     area, astrophysics would ordinarily not be acceptable, since it is
     typically viewed as a branch of astronomy rather than physics.

     C. The number of new courses required to implement a new option (or
     emphasis area) can also be a relevant consideration.

   Inactive Status for Existing Programs: Programs placed on "Inactive
   Status" will essentially be suspended for a specified period not to
   exceed five years. Students in the program at the time this status is
   adopted will be permitted to conclude their course of study if they
   have no more than two years of coursework remaining, but no new
   students may be admitted to the program. Programs designated as
   "Inactive" will be noted on institutional program inventories. At the
   conclusion of the designated inactive period–not to exceed five
   years–the institution must review the program's status and may either
   delete or reactivate the program. In the event the institution chooses
   to reactivate the program, the institution will provide to the
   Coordinating Board satisfactory evidence that the resources necessary
   for the program are available and must establish performance goals for
   the program that are acceptable to the Coordinating Board.

   Deletion of Programs: Institutions need to submit standard
   program-change information whenever a program or option is deleted.
   This same provision applies whenever two or more programs are to be
   consolidated into one or more new offerings.

   back to top

   Forms:

   The following forms may be viewed in Word 97.  If you do not have Word
   97, please download the link below to have access to a word viewer.

   Word 97 Viewer

   Form NP ( New Program Proposal Form)
   Form SE (Student Enrollment Projections)
   Form CL (Collaborative Programs)
   Form PS (Program Structure)
   Form FP (Financial Projections)
   Form PG (Program Characteristics and Performance Goals)
   Form OS (Off-Site Delivery of an Existing Program Form)
   Form PC (Program Change Form)

   All Forms above


   back to top

                               thin banner gif
   Missouri Department of Higher Education, 3515 Amazonas Dr.,  Jefferson
                            City, MO  65109-5717
   Phone: 573-751-2361 Fax: 573-751-6635 MOSTARS Information Center: (800)
                                  473-6757
          Technical questions about the Web site please contact us.

   This page was last updated Fri, 11 Jan 2002 14:37:48
