http://www.plumascourt.ca.gov/new_page_25.htm

                                [new_pa2.gif]

         Letter To Presiding Judge-Final Report
   Final Report-Year 2000-2001


   FUNCTIONS
   The grand jury is an investigatory body created for the protection of
   society and the enforcement of the law. Although the responsibilities
   of a juror are many and diverse, the three predominant functions
   include:

   CIVIL WATCHDOG RESPONSIBILITIES
   This is the major function of present day grand jurors, and
   considerable effort is devoted to these responsibilities. The grand
   jury may examine all aspects of county government and  to ensure that
   the best interest of Plumas County citizens are being served. The grand
   jury reviews and evaluates procedures, methods and systems utilized by
   county government to determine whether more efficient and economical
   programs may be employed. The grand jury is also authorized:
     * Inspect and audit books, records and financial expenditures to
       ensure that public funds are properly accounted for and legally
       spent.
     * Inspect financial records of Plumas County.
     * Inquire into the conditions of jails and detention centers.
     * Inquire into charges of willful misconduct in office by public
       officials or employees.

   CITIZEN COMPLAINTS
   As part of the civil function, the Grand Jury receives many letters
   from citizens alleging mistreatment by officials, suspicious of
   misconduct, or governmental inefficiencies. Complaints received from
   citizens are acknowledged and investigated for their validity. Such
   complaints are kept confidential. If the situation warrants, and
   corrective action is under the jurisdiction of the grand jury,
   appropriate action is taken.


   CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
   Occasionally and under certain circumstances the grand jury holds
   hearings to determine whether evidence presented by the district
   attorney is sufficient nature to warrant persons having to stand trial
   in court. A minimum of 12 jurors must vote for an indictment in any
   criminal proceeding. The types of cases presented to the grand jury by
   the district attorney usually include:
     * Cases involving public officials, employees or police officers.
     * Other cases the district attorney deems appropriate.

   QUALIFICATIONS

   Prospective grand jurors must possess the following qualifications
   (Penal Code Section 893):
     * Be a citizen of the United States of the age of 18 years or older
       who shall have been a resident of the county for one year
       immediately before being sworn.
     * Be in possession of his or her natural faculties, of ordinary
       intelligence, of sound judgment and of fair character.
     * Possess sufficient knowledge of the English language.

   A person is NOT competent to act as a grand jury if any of the
   following apply:
     * The person is serving as a trial juror in any court of this state.
     * The person has been discharged as a grand juror in any court of
       this state within one year.
     * The person has been convicted of malfeasance in office or any
       felony or other high crime.
     * The person is serving as an elected public official.

   Desirable qualifications for a grand juror include the following:
     * Be in good health.
     * Be open-minded with concern for the views of others.
     * Have the ability to work with others.
     * Have a genuine interest in community affairs.
     * Have investigative skills and an ability to write reports.

   COMMITMENT

   Persons selected for grand jury service must make a commitment for a
   period of one year (July 1 through June 30).

   REMUNERATION

   Grand jurors receive ten dollars per day for meeting and twenty cents
   per mile round trip

   WHY BECOME A GRAND JUROR?

   Those who are asked to serve on the Grand Jury feel privileged to be
   selected. They enter this service with interest and curiosity in
   learning more about the administration and operation of the government
   in the county in which they live.

   Although serving as a grand juror consumes many hours, those who serve
   are willing to give their time for the betterment of the government
   which, in truth, belongs to them.

   If and when you are asked to serve as a Grand Juror, step up to your
   responsibility, accept the appointment and represent the community in
   which you live!

   Information may be obtained by contacting:

   Plumas Superior Court
   Deputy Jury Commissioner
   520 Main Street   Rm 304
   Quincy, CA  95971
   (530) 283-6297


                               [new_pa11.gif]
