http://solve.lanl.gov/html_resolve/index.html


          SOLVE/RESOLVE home

                            RESOLVE examples

                                            RESOLVE on-line manual

   [resolve_bright.jpg]

                                           RESOLVE

                           Maximum-likelihood density modification

                            Prime-and-switch minimal-bias phasing

                                  Automated model-building

                       Tom Terwilliger, Los Alamos National Laboratory



                              What is resolve?

   RESOLVE is a program that improves electron density maps.

   RESOLVE uses a maximum-likelihood approach to combine experimental
   X-ray diffraction information with knowledge about the expected
   characteristics of an electron density map of a macromolecule.

   You can run RESOLVE to improve your maps right after using SOLVE or
   another program to solve your structure.

   Version 2.01 and higher of RESOLVE will build a main-chain model of
   your structure automatically.

     How is RESOLVE different than other density-modification programs?

   RESOLVE uses a new mathematical formulation to directly maximize the
   total likelihood of the phases. Other approaches rely on phase
   recombination where the optimal statistical weighting of experimental
   and modified phases is not known.

    What is prime-and-switch phasing and how does it minimize model bias?

   Prime-and-switch phasing primes density modification with biased model
   phases, then switches entirely to an independent source of phase
   information (the likelihood of the map) to remove the model bias.
   Prime-and-switch phasing can give excellent unbiased maps even for
   crystals with very low solvent content (provided that the biased model
   did have substantial correct phase information!)

            What are other new features of version 2 of resolve?

   In addition to prime-and-switch phasing, version 2.0 of RESOLVE can
   find non-crystallographic symmetry in your heavy-atom sites and apply
   it automatically.  Version 2.01 and higher can build a main-chain model
   for you as well.

                     How can I read more about resolve?

   The mathematics behind RESOLVE and examples of its use are described in
   the article "Maximum likelihood density modification," appearing in
   Acta Cryst. D56, 965---972 (2000).


    Last updated: 14-Dec-2001 (version 2.01)
