http://km.gov/links/vendor_links.html

   [km-gov-title.gif] FirstGov - Your First Click to the U.S. Government
        Welcome to KM.GOV Hot and Late Breaking Knowledge Management News
   Working Group Members Knowledge Management Working Group Documents
   Knowledge Management Special Interest Groups Knowledge Management
   Resources and Links Knowledge Management Events & Conferences
   [e-KM.gif] Federal Chief Information Officers' Council

            Knowledge Management Organizations and Gateway Links Knowledge
    Management Glossaries and Forums Knowledge Management Publications and
         Articles Technology/Vendors Communities of Practice Links On-line
                         Training Government Links Internet Serach Engines


   [transparent.gif]

Technology/Vendors

   This list is for information and reference only.  It does not
   constitute any official endorsement or recommendation by the Federal
   Chief Information Officers' Council, the Human Resources Development
   Council or the General Services Administration.
   Hyperlinks to products as organized in Supporting Communities of
   Practice: a survey of community-oriented technologies, by Etienne
   Wenger, Research and Consulting.
   2Way Corp.
   2Ways - 2Way Interactive System.
   AlphaBlox Corporation
   AlphaBlox Analysis Suite eBusiness Edition - a web-based platform for
   delivering analytical applications that optimize eBusiness efficiency.
   AMS -- Knowledge Management
   Anteon Corporation
   Applied Learning Labs
   Autonomy - Knowledge Management and New Media Content Solutions
   Chrystal Software
   Products provide component-level web content management solutions for
   publishers of technical documentation and other types of structured and
   unstructured information as well as new media.
   Collectively Sharper
   Collectively Sharper's founding vision is to develop products and
   services that meet the needs of all organizations aiming to access and
   leverage their corporate information and convert it into knowledge.
   Cypress Corporation
   E-business document portal delivering disparate documents over the Web
   & enterprise.
   Datawatch Corporation
   A global provider of enterprise reporting solutions, data
   transformation tools and support center software that help
   organizations increase productivity, reduce costs and gain competitive
   advantage.
   Digital Consulting Institute (DCI)
   High-technology education, trade shows, and management consulting.
   FireDrop, Inc.
   Zaplets - live, shared email.
   GITI Solutions
   Provides customers with advanced software and services using both
   off-the-shelf and custom applications. Specializes in solutions that
   help organizations navigate and integrate information from diverse
   repositories.
   Hummingbird
   Document & Knowledge Management
   Enterprise Portal Suite
   Hyperknowledge
   Hyperknowledge is a discovery about the structure of Knowledge, brought
   to life in world-class software.
   Hyperwave Information Management, Inc.
   Bringing unique technology and expertise to information portals which
   allow this transformation, from Corporate Knowledge to Corporate
   Wisdom.
   IBM Knowledge Management
   InfoImage
   freedom accesses structured and unstructured data, while providing
   advanced personalization, intuitive search, business intelligence and
   collaboration tools which increase decision velocity.
   Information Builders
   Information Builders works to simplify how organizations access,
   understand, and share information through i-business.
   Inktomi
   Develops and markets scalable applications that are core to the
   Internet infrastructure, enabling end users to easily find information
   and access it more quickly.
   Inovie Software
   Provides a web-based teaming infrastructure that addresses the needs
   resulting from this new way companies create products and services.
   Institute for Knowledge Management
   The IKM is a global consortium of member organizations committed to
   understanding and developing tangible business value from knowledge
   management.
   Intraspect Software, Inc.
   Intraspect Knowledge Server (IKS) 3.0 is a software platform that
   enables customers and partners to develop and deploy a personalized
   solution for web-based collaboration.
   Isogen International
   ISYS/Odyssey Development
   Supplier of search and text retrieval software solutions for desktop
   users, LAN & WAN users, Intranet and World Wide Web.
   Cadenza, Inc.
   KnowledgeLEAD is a Knowledge Relationship Management intranet system
   that empowers corporate employees to perform in their greatest
   capacity. It fosters collaboration, teamwork and knowledge sharing to
   save time and energy while promoting efficiency and initiative.
   Knowledge Management: Building the Collaborative Enterprise
   An Ovum Report.
   Knowledge Transfer International (KTI)
   Creates integrated training and performance support solutions.
   Lotus Knowledge Management
   Clicking on "Search Lotus.com" also allows you to find reports on many
   other subjects.
   Megaputer Intelligence
   Developer and distributor of advanced software tools for data mining,
   text mining, and intelligent e-commerce personalization.
   MicroStrategy
   Moreover
   Dynamic Web Database
   Octopus
   Provides access to all data sources including applications, databases,
   extranets, legacy systems, public sites, and more.  Automatically
   integrates and presents information for users.
   One Page
   Offers software products that give the power to reach across multiple
   data sources, extract relevant information, and deploy it in portal,
   intranet, virtual database or content management system.
   OpenText
   Livelink knowledge repository.
   Orbital Software
   Participate.com
   Provides community management expertise through research, consulting,
   measurement, and technology implementation.
   Performigence Corporation
   ProcessGenius^TM software captures, communicates and manages
   process-related information and operational knowledge.
   Plumtree Software
   Organizes access to documents in an enterprise-wide web directory and
   integrates the most useful information and services from other systems.
   Preeminent Advantage
   RealCommunities, Inc.
   Provides software and related services to corporations and
   organizations for development and management of their communities on
   the web.
   SageMaker, Inc.
   SageWave, SageMaker's EIP solution, provides business information users
   with a single point of access to all of their key sources of internal
   and external information by collecting, integrating and organizing
   information from outside the firm, and combining it with internal
   information resources in a personalizable browser.
   Simera
   Knowledge management software, customer and employee relationship
   tools, database profiling and business process automation for purchase
   or rent via browsers.
   Sveiby Knowledge Management
   Research, tools, and advice for organisations on how to create
   commercial value from knowledge-based assets.
   TheBrain Technologies Corp.
   A provider of visual information environments striving to bring people
   intelligence and to increase productivity by providing individuals and
   organizations intuitive, context-rich information environments.
   Tomoye
   Simplify integrates best-of-breed features from content management,
   groupware, collaboration and personalization to deliver outstanding
   support for knowledge sharing Intranets, Extranets and public web
   sites.
   WebMap
