http://www.trade.wa.gov/intern.htm

                     Washington State CTED International Trade

                        International Trade Intern Program

   The International Trade Intern Program is a volunteer (non-paid) internship
   which requires a minimum commitment of 15 hours per week for 10-12 weeks.

      The purpose of the International Trade Intern Program is to provide
      students the opportunity to:
        * Work with professionals involved in trade at the local, state,
          national and international levels.
        * Strengthen research skills.
        * Gain practical office skills.
        * Acquire hands on work experience in international trade.
        * Learn how the state of Washington promotes international trade.

      Intern research projects covers a broad range of requests for
      information. The majority of projects are focused on, but not limited
      to the following geographic regions - Japan, Canada, Mexico, Western
      Europe, Russia, China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, - and targeted industries
      - computer software, value-added forest products and agriculture.

      Specific responsibilities include:
        * Responding to requests for information on products manufactured in
          Washington.
        * Identifying and recruiting companies to exhibit at trade shows.
        * Compiling statistical data relating to exporting and importing.
        * Escorting foreign trade delegations to meetings with businesses and
          government representatives.
        * Other skills will be added based on skills and initiative.

      Applicants should possess a high level of initiative, strong oral and
      written communication skills, research skills and an interest in
      international affairs.   Applicants should also be junior or
      senior-level students or recent university graduates. Although a major
      in one of the following areas is helpful, it is not required:

                  Business Administration             International Studies
                  Economics                                   Public
      Administration
                  Political Science                          Foreign
      Languages

      Please return the application with a brief writing sample to:

                  CTED International Trade Division
                  2001 6th Avenue, Suite 2600
                  Seattle, WA 98121
                  Telephone (206) 956-3189
                  Email: trade@cted.wa.gov


   Fading Marquis Banner showing three lines of text


     Home  What We Do Programs Foreign Contract Representatives   News &
    Events   Where is Washington  Why is Trade Important   Foreign Trade
      Zones Trade Statistics Press Releases Ports  Economic Development
      Council's  Consulates  Info & Resources   Financing Import/Export
    Guide   NASDA Listing   Publications  Washington at a Glance  Intern
     Program Employment Did you know? Sister Cities Contact Us   Access
    Washington  CTED Home   Search   Info Request   Disclaimer & Privacy
                                  Statement

     Web site designed and maintained by Jennifer Williams, e-mail with
                 questions or comments about this web site.
        Copyright © 2001 Washington State Office of Trade & Economic
                                 Development

                       Last modified: August 01, 2001

               Access Washington             [otedlogoblk.gif]
