http://www.rocklin.ca.gov/about/about.html

   The City of Rocklin. Click to return to the main page.

                              About Our Website

   This website is Frames and JavaScript enhanced and may require an
   updated browser to be viewed as designed. However, it should be
   accessible to all persons with any web browser.

   General questions regarding the City of Rocklin, employment with the
   City of Rocklin, its programs, or services should be sent to:
   info@rocklin.ca.gov. Questions regarding a specific department should
   be sent to the department itself.

   WEBSITE NAVIGATION:
   Links on this website are THIS COLOR and are not underlined. The quick
   navigation frame may be enabled or disabled from the main page at any
   time. This website can be completely accessed without the quick
   navigation frame. Additionally, a text-based map of this website may be
   found HERE or by clicking on the A text-based Site Map button in the
   quick navigation frame.

   PRINTING INFORMATION FROM THIS WEBSITE
   When printing information from this website please take into account
   that the page that prints will be the page that you last clicked on.
   Hence, if you last clicked on the navigation frame then that is what
   will print. To print information from a page that was accessed via the
   navigation frame simply click anywhere on that page and then print. If
   you have the navigation frame disabled our pages will print normally.



                              Website Design:

         Michael Bielski:
                          Website Design and Maintenance

         Information Systems Staff:

         Gary Cook:
         Ramon Nuguit:
         Terri Rowan:
         Bruce Killian:
         Michael Bielski: Information Systems Manager
                          Network Systems Administrator
                          Computer Systems Technician
                          Information Systems Technology Specialist
                          Computer Systems Aide/Web Design

    The information contained in this website reflects the efforts of the
                             entire city staff.


   This website has been designed for and is best viewed at a resolution
   of 800x600 with:

   Microsoft Internet Explorer and Netscape Navigator

            This website has been created and is maintained with:
                          Microsoft FrontPage 2000

       Public documents available on this website require Adobe Acrobat
                                   Reader.
                 For information, please see our Adobe page.


   The background image on this website should display correctly (little
   or no overlap on the sides) at the resolutions of 600 x 400, 640 x 480,
   800 x 600, and 1024 x 768 with the browser window maximized. Higher or
   lower resolutions will display the default background image with a size
   of 800 x 600. The background image will remain stationary (watermarked)
   in Internet Explorer versions 4 and above, and will not repeat (show
   more than one image in successive screens) in all other browsers.









         Technical questions regarding this website may be sent to:
                             web@rocklin.ca.gov
          Please do not send information requests to this address.
