http://mouse.info.nih.gov/Welcome.asp

   mouse.info.nih.gov National Institutes of Health

                                 [mouse.GIF]

    OPPORTUNITY FOR OBTAINING DNA SEQUENCE OF REGIONS OF HIGH BIOMEDICAL
                    INTEREST FROM MODEL ORGANISM GENOMES


                         Application Submission Site


               The current application deadline is May 1 2002

       For security reasons the application site will be available for
                submitting applications after April 14 2002.


   In January 2000, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) initiated the
   NIH Mouse BAC Sequencing Program to sequence BAC clones or contigs that
   were determined to be of high biomedical interest. This program was
   limited to BACs derived from the DNA of only one mouse strain,
   C57BL/6J. While the program has been successful, several factors now
   warrant its expansion. Scientists conducting research on other mouse
   strains or on other organisms have strongly indicated their interest in
   the expansion of the list of eligible organisms. Many important
   biomedical research projects involve organisms other than the C57BL/6J
   mouse strain. Comparative sequence analysis is an important approach to
   the identification of candidate genes, inversions, breakpoints, and
   conserved non-coding sequences as candidates for cis-regulatory
   elements. Many biological questions can be addressed by having the
   sequence of specific regions, rather than the complete genomic sequence
   of an organism. Therefore, in an effort to facilitate the research
   interests of the larger biomedical research community, the NIH is
   expanding the NIH Mouse BAC Sequencing Program to include the
   sequencing of BAC clones from all species of animals, fungi, and
   eukaryotic protists.


   As in the past, there will be no cost to the investigators seeking
   access to this sequencing service; the sequencing will be done by
   centers that are funded through the Genome Sequencing Network. As with
   all sequence data generated by the Human Genome Project, all of the
   sequence data generated by the NIH-supported Genome Sequencing Network
   are subject to the "Bermuda Rules." The data will be rapidly released
   into GenBank; unfinished data will be submitted within 24 hours of
   generation of 2kb sequence assemblies, and finished data as soon as
   completed. In particular, under this program of sequencing regions of
   high biomedical significance, no sequence data will be made available
   to the requestor prior to public release. All publications using these
   data must acknowledge the publicly funded effort as their source. In
   addition, if BAC clones that are approved for sequencing are not
   available commercially, the requestor must agree to make arrangements
   for the clone(s) to be distributed, upon request, to the scientific
   community in an expeditious manner.


   The following links describe the program in more detail, discuss review
   procedures and criteria, as well as program management, and provide
   application forms which must be used to request access to this program.

   ·        Program description

   ·        Review of applications

   ·        Application forms
     * Request to Sequence a Single BAC Clone
     * Request to Sequence Multiple BACs

   ·        Modify existing application
   ·        Review Results and Program Management

   ·        Staff Contacts

           Trans-NIH Mouse Initiative Home | NHGRI Home | NIH Home
