http://trmm.gsfc.nasa.gov/publications_dir/trmm_conference.html

   Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission
   TRMM homepage

                                Breaking News
                            [backgroundimage.gif]

                               Call For Papers

      International Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Science
                                 Conference

   The International Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Science
   Conference will be held 22-26 July 2002 at the Hyatt Regency Waikiki in
   Honolulu, Hawaii. The conference is sponsored by the National
   Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Space
   Development Agency (NASDA) of Japan.

   The Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) was launched in November
   1997 as a joint U.S.-Japan mission to advance understanding of the
   global energy and water cycle by providing distributions of rainfall
   and latent heating over the global tropics. For over 3 years, TRMM has
   contributed significantly towards reducing uncertainty in satellite
   estimates of rainfall in the Tropics and providing knowledge related to
   the climatology, seasonality, and variation of tropical rainfall; the
   mesoscale structure of rain-producing systems; and the physics of
   precipitation. TRMM has also contributed significant knowledge in areas
   related to hurricane analysis and forecasting, pollution, lightning,
   weather forecasting, climate modeling, hydrology, and other areas.

   Papers are solicited on all aspects of TRMM research, including
   satellite data analysis, climate diagnostics, model evaluation,
   algorithm development, field experiments, validation and applications.
   Titles and abstracts (not to exceed 500 words) in English must be
   received by 1 February 2002 and may be submitted to
   abstracts@agnes.gsfc.nasa.gov . To view a sample abstract click here. .
   For further information contact Dr. Jeffrey B. Halverson. This website
   will routinely provide updates on conference proceedings, registration,
   and abstract submissions. Aloha!


   NASA Home Page
   NASDA Home Page
   GSFC Home Page
   Breaking News
   Rainfall Measurements
   Real Time Products
   Introduction
   Images and Movies
   Publications
   Data Products
   Educational Resouces
   Validation
   Related Links
   Contact Information
   Privacy Statement
   Image Policy
   NASA home page
   Email webmaster
