http://www.msi.doc.gov/internwebsite.htm

   [back.gif] Back to OEAM Page


                                  [doc.gif]
                         U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                        POSTSECONDARY INTERNSHIP PROGRAM

   The Department of Commerce announces opportunities for both summer and
   academic year internships for the 2002 summer and fall and 2003 spring
   sessions.
     * Interns participate in on-site work experiences with Department of
       Commerce bureaus and offices in order to integrate academic theory
       and workplace requirements, gain relevant skills and knowledge,
       explore Federal career options, develop professional networks, and
       gain a greater awareness of the role of Federal agencies.

     * Basic eligibility requires enrollment as an undergraduate or
       graduate student at two and four-year accredited educational
       institutions, as well as U.S. citizenship.

     * Interns receive stipends as well as paid round-trip transportation
       expenses between their schools and work locations. Assistance with
       temporary housing arrangements is also provided. Most internships
       are in the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan area, but some assignments
       are available at locations around the United States, where Commerce
       regional and local offices are situated.

     * Interns hosted under the Postsecondary Internship Program are not
       employees of the Department of Commerce; rather, they are
       affiliated with one of the five sponsoring organizations with which
       the Department collaborates to recruit interns.

   Students interested in being considered for opportunities under the
   Department of Commerce Postsecondary Internship Program should directly
   contact any of the following five sponsoring organizations. Links to
   the respective web sites are provided for your convenience. Each
   sponsoring organization has its own eligibility criteria and
   application form; some have an electronic version of the application
   form available on their web sites. Please note that all programs are
   open to any students who meet program eligibility criteria; none is
   limited to minority students only.

   American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) was founded to
   foster educational programs and strategies that would increase the
   number of Native American scientists, engineers, and leaders. Since its
   founding in 1977, its membership has grown to include students and
   professionals in business and other academic disciplines. In addition
   to its Summer Intern Work Experience Program, AISES provides
   pre-college, college, professional and community programs in order to
   achieve its goals and objectives. With over 3,039 professional and
   nearly 2,000 student members, 155 college chapters, 43 affiliate school
   chapters, and 360 pre-college members, AISES's presence in the American
   Indian community is far reaching and substantial. AISES collaborates
   with DoC on summer internships only. http://www.aises.org or call
   (505)765-1052

   Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities National Internship
   Program(HACU/HNIP). The Hispanic Association of Colleges and
   Universities (HACU) is a national association of Hispanic Serving
   Institutions (HSIs)--nonprofit, accredited colleges and universities
   where Hispanic students constitute twenty-five percent or more of the
   enrollment. HACU's mission includes the development of its member HSIs
   and the improvement of access to postsecondary educational
   opportunities for Hispanic students. The HACU National Internship
   Program is designed to enhance the awareness of Federal sector career
   opportunities among Hispanic students. Since 1992, HNIP has placed more
   than 2,600 college students in challenging internship assignments with
   Federal agencies. http://www.HACU.net or call (202)467-0893

   Minority Access, Inc. (MAI) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation that
   was organized in 1994 and incorporated in January 1995. It specializes
   in the identification and placement of students, faculty members and
   administrators in Federal agencies and private organizations dedicated
   to promoting diversity. Minority Access has successfully conducted
   student internship programs over the past several years for a number of
   Federal agencies. The goal of Minority Access, Inc.'s intern program is
   to ensure that students from HBCUs (Historically Black Colleges and
   Universities) are provided the opportunity for meaningful work
   experiences that will foster professional and personal growth.
   http://www.minorityaccess.org or call (301)779-7100

   Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) is a private not-for-profit
   consortium of 87 colleges and universities with a mission to provide
   and develop capabilities critical to the nation's science and
   engineering infrastructure. One of the nation's first university-based,
   science-related university consortia, ORAU was founded in 1946. For
   more than 50 years, ORAU has operated programs for more than a dozen
   Federal agencies. Annually, it supports approximately 2,600 individuals
   (undergraduates, graduate students, post graduates, and faculty) in
   internship, research participation and other education programs at 100
   federal laboratories and research centers across the country. Its
   programs are national in scope and attract participants from the full
   range of academic institutions, including HBCUs, HSIs and tribal
   colleges. http://www.orau.gov/orise/edu/uggrad/docint.htm or call
   (865)576-8158

   Lee College, on behalf of the Harris County (TX) Honors Programs
   Partnership was formed by four community college districts: Houston,
   San Jacinto, North Harris Montgomery College and Lee College. Community
   colleges have an important role in educating many students who
   otherwise might not have the financial means or flexibility to attend
   college outside their immediate geographic area. Its mission is to
   provide experiential training in order to enhance students' academic
   and professional development. The college districts serve more than
   200,000 students; the honors programs more than 75,000.
   http://www.lee.edu or call (281)425-6404

   For more information about the program:

   CONTACT: Carin Otero, Intern Program Officer, or Lisa Duckett, Intern
   Program Assistant, (202)482-4115; COtero1@doc.gov,LDucket1@doc.gov

                                 Top of Page
