http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/nov01/water1101.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine


More Troublesome Water Weeds Targeted by Researchers

     Close-up of yellow starthistle: Click here for full photo caption.
    A pleasant saltwater lagoon on the sunny coast of southern California
    made botanical history last year when a dreaded marine alga, Caulerpa
   taxifolia, showed up there. The infestation at Agua Hedionda lagoon in
   Carlsbad, about 30 miles north of San Diego, was the first discovery in
    the Western Hemisphere of the Mediterranean strain of this notorious
                                    alga.

     Caulerpa was next detected in Huntington Harbor, a small, isolated
                     marina near Long Beach, California.

     ARS plant physiologist Lars W. J. Anderson, together with industry,
   university, state, and federal colleagues, worked quickly to quash the
              weed before it could spread farther up the coast.

    In preliminary experiments, Anderson and co-researchers tried several
      commonly used aquatic herbicides but found that liquid chlorine,
    injected under 10- to 20-foot-square black plastic tarpaulins spread
   atop the weed, worked best at Agua Hedionda. At Huntington Harbor, they
      used solid, puck-shaped disks of chlorine instead of liquid. Both
    killed the algae. "Nothing else seemed to work," Anderson says. He is
     with the ARS Exotic and Invasive Weeds Research Unit, stationed at
                             Davis, California.

      Ecologist examines saltcedar: Click here for full photo caption.
                   Conquering Caulerpa—A Marine Miscreant

     Sometimes referred to as "killer algae," C. taxifolia flourishes in
   warm saltwater harbors, bays, and lagoons. It spreads remarkably fast,
       crowding out native species of algae and sea grasses. "Caulerpa
    essentially ruins conditions for a whole host of marine animals, such
                     as small mollusks," says Anderson.

    "No one knows exactly how it ended up at the lagoon or at Huntington
    Harbor," he says, "but we suspect that someone dumped the contents of
      an aquarium." Caulerpa was listed by the federal government as a
   noxious weed in 1999, which means that it is illegal to sell it in the
   United States. However, there is still a market for it. People like to
    have this weed in their fish tanks because it grows so well. They may
      not even be aware of the effects it can have if it escapes to the
                                  outdoors.

    Today, the black plastic tarps still remain in place. The scientists
    and their collaborators continue to monitor the outbreaks regularly.
   "We know that chlorine kills the top of the Caulerpa plants," Anderson
   explains, "but the real question is what's happening below, in the mud.
     We know that the plant forms structures called rhizoids that could
    produce new growth. We need to be sure that the chlorine kills them."

   In testing the viability of the rhizoids after aboveground parts of the
   plant have been killed, Anderson is collaborating with Susan Williams,
       director of the University of California at Davis Bodega Marine
    Laboratory, just north of San Francisco. "We're also looking at other
                         algicides," notes Anderson.

     Ecologist and technician collect a leaf sample: Click here for full
                               photo caption.
                          Arundo donax Raises Cain

    Unlike the algal newcomer Caulerpa, a bamboolike invader called giant
    reed or giant cane has been an unwanted intruder in California for at
    least 100 years. Known to scientists as Arundo donax, this member of
     the grass family can grow 3 to 7 inches a day, reaching 30 feet in
         height. Plants sport feathery white plumes called panicles.

    Arundo is used as an ornamental plant for landscaping and as a source
    of reeds for musical instruments, such as bassoons and bagpipes. Its
                   cellulose can be used for papermaking.

     Found from Maryland to California, Arundo thrives along streams and
    ditches. A fierce invader of freshwater ecosystems, Arundo crowds out
     riparian regulars like alders, cottonwoods, and willows that would
   otherwise provide a home for wildlife and cooling shade vital for fish
   and other aquatic creatures. The plant recovers rapidly after wildfire,
      sending up hardy new sprouts from its roots. What's more, bits of
    Arundo that break off and travel down creeks and streams can readily
                           start new infestations.

      Ecologist measures density of yellow starthistle while technician
        samples biocontrol agent: Click here for full photo caption.
     Despite the weed's long history in the United States, there's very
      little published information about its basic biology and ecology,
      according to David F. Spencer. He is with the ARS team at Davis.

   To help fill in the gap, Spencer and colleague Greg G. Ksander, also at
     Davis, are gathering data needed for equations that can be used to
      predict Arundo's growth at various stages of its life cycle under
    various environmental conditions. Explains Spencer, "Some of Arundo's
     life stages may be more susceptible than others to certain control
      tactics, like herbicides or biological control. And environmental
      conditions such as temperature are likely to influence growth and
              development, but we don't have specific details."

      As a starting point, Spencer and Ksander looked at the effects of
       temperature and soil nitrogen levels on sprouting. "We want to
    determine the environmental conditions that cue Arundo to produce new
   sprouts from its rhizomes." Those thick, underground stems are critical
                     to Arundo's long-term persistence.
     In tests of rhizome sections and stem cuttings kept indoors for 12
   weeks at 44.6 °F, 57.2 °F, or 68 °F, the researchers found that new
   shoots emerged and survived at 57.2 °F and 68 °F and emerged sooner at
      the higher temperature. At 44.6 °F, no shoots grew from rhizome
     sections; only a single shoot sprouted from a stem cutting but soon
                                    died.

   In a second experiment, the scientists varied the level of the nitrate
    form of nitrogen applied to rhizome sections during weekly watering.
     Notes Spencer, "Some studies done at other labs have indicated that
    nitrate in the soil, which may fluctuate seasonally, stimulates some
                            seeds to germinate."

   The researchers exposed rhizome sections to 46.4 °F or 60.8 °F for 14
     weeks and applied concentrations of nitrate ranging from 0.3 to 6.0
   milligrams per liter of water. "New shoots emerged at 60.8 °F but not
      at 46.4 °F," reports Spencer. "Neither the number of shoots that
        emerged nor the length of time it took for them to appear was
            influenced by the amount of nitrate that we applied."

        In an experiment with rhizomes planted outdoors at Davis, the
     scientists found that shoots first appeared in late March, when the
   average weekly temperature was 52.7 °F. New shoots continued to emerge
                               until November.

      "With this new information, we can develop equations that relate
     sprouting to temperature over time, or what's known as accumulated
       degree-days," Spencer says. "Because nitrate—at the levels we
   applied—didn't stimulate sprouting, the equations won't have to include
                           nitrate fluctuations."

      Fish and wildlife specialists, water district managers, and other
   streamkeepers throughout the United States can use the information from
    the equations. It will help them decide the best timing for whatever
    management technique they choose to bring this aggressive weed under
     control.—By Marcia Wood, Agricultural Research Service Information
                                   Staff.

       This research is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine, an ARS
         National Program (#304) described on the World Wide Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

    Lars W.J. Anderson, David F. Spencer, and Greg G. Ksander are in the
     USDA-ARS Exotic and Invasive Weeds Research Unit, One Shields Ave.,
         Davis, CA 95616; phone (530) 752-6260, fax (530) 752-4604.

                            --------------------

                            Tackling a Tough Trio
   As if giant reed weren't enough of a problem, this rugged invader often
   grows interspersed with another waterside menace, saltcedar, or Tamarix
   parviflora. These weeds may leave off further inland, but then another
   unwelcome intruder, called yellow starthistle, Centaurea solstitialis,
                              often takes over.

    "These exotic species are thought to be the three most serious plant
   invaders in riparian ecosystems and adjacent uplands in the West," says
   ARS ecologist Raymond I. Carruthers. He is leader of the ARS Exotic and
    Invasive Weeds Research Unit, based at the Western Regional Research
                        Center in Albany, California.

    Funded in part by a grant from the Initiative for Future Agriculture
   and Food Systems, Carruthers co-manages a unique research project aimed
     at helping land managers tackle all three problem weeds at once in
      what's known as an ecosystem-level approach. At least three dozen
    federal, state, and private agencies, universities, and organizations
   are working together to develop the best biological control strategies
           for combating these weeds and restoring native plants.

     "People have joined this team effort because they're convinced that
    biological control has the ecological and economic potential to fight
               established invasive species," says Carruthers.

    Program participants are sharing the work of evaluating the risks and
   effectiveness of biological control agents such as weed-eating insects.
     They are also helping develop innovative techniques to prevent the
   weeds from successfully reinvading. And they're helping make sure that
     land managers have the newest and best available information about
                   successful weed-management strategies.

   "Results of this project," notes Carruthers, "may provide a model that
     people elsewhere can use to get the upper hand with other groups of
      invasive plants."—By Kathryn Barry Stelljes, formerly with ARS.

     Raymond I. Carruthers is in the USDA-ARS Exotic and Invasive Weeds
     Research Unit, Western Regional Research Center, 800 Buchanan St.,
         Albany, CA 94710; phone (510) 559-6127, fax (510) 559-5737.

                            --------------------

   "More Troublesome Water Weeds Targeted by Researchers" was published in
         the November 2001 issue of Agricultural Research magazine.

                   Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

                                Bottom menu

         Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
              About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
