http://www.longbeach.gov/finance/diversity.htm

   [USEMAP:topnav.gif]

     [cityseal_purchase.gif]

   Department of Financial Management

   Diversity Outreach Division

   City Hall, 333 W. Ocean Boulevard, 6th Floor, Long Beach, Ca 90802

   Tel. (562)570-6462  *  Fax (562)570-6780

   Events Calendar

   Purchasing Division

   Business Development Center


   Other Related Links:

   Latin Business Association

   LA Minority Business Opportunity Committee




                                             MISSION

   To create an environment of inclusion where our diverse and local
   business enterprises are given maximum opportunity to compete
   successfully in providing quality and cost-effective products and
   services to City Departments in a timely manner.

   DISADVANTAGED-, MINORITY- AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE PROGRAM

   The City of Long Beach is committed to provide maximum opportunities
   for Disadvantaged-, Minority- and Women-owned Businesses (DBEs, MBEs
   and WBEs) to compete successfully in supplying our needs for products
   and services.  We do this by:
     * Training Buyers to be aware of their challenges.
     * Placing a high priority on outreach; contacting them directly
       through trade fairs, local, minority and women business
       associations and the Southern California Regional Purchasing
       Council.
     * Assisting them in developing their administrative skills in areas
       such as bidding and invoicing.
     * Assisting them in technical areas such as specification
       interpretation.

   LONG BEACH BUSINESS OUTREACH PROGRAM - "BUY LONG BEACH PROGRAM"

   The City’s Purchasing and Diversity Outreach Division uses a variety of
   approaches to ensure that Long Beach, disadvantaged, minority and women
   business enterprises have the opportunity to bid on City contracts. The
   City adheres to the “Buy Long Beach” plan that was developed in
   cooperation with the Long Beach Area Chamber of Commerce.  The original
   plan has been supplemented over time and the City’s outreach efforts
   now consist of a number of proactive steps as outlined below:
     * The City Charter Section 1803 grants a 1% preference to bidders
       whose place of business is located within the City limits for the
       purchase of materials, equipment or supplies.
     * Buyers are required to send a minimum of two bids to known Long
       Beach suppliers.
     * All formal bids are advertised in the Long Beach Press
       Telegram. The Long Beach Business Journal receives a weekly listing
       of all available bids.
     * The Diversity Outreach Officer convenes bimonthly "Buy Long Beach"
       and DBE/MBE/WBE Steering Committee meetings to which City
       departments are invited.
     * All bids, including Public Works construction and Water Department
       bids are listed on the City’s Internet website at
       www.ci.long-beach.ca.us. Interested bidders can click on "Business,
       Bids & RFPs" or go directly to the Purchasing Division website at
       http://www.lbpurchasing.org
     * The City’s Advanced Purchasing and Inventory Control System
       (ADPICS) provides an on-line supplier directory which identifies
       Long Beach businesses and DBEs/MBEs/WBEs.
     * The City’s Purchasing Division, Diversity Outreach Division and
       Economic Development Bureau sponsors the annual Small Business
       Conference in partnership with the Long Beach Area Chamber of
       Commerce, Earth Tech and the Boeing Company.
     * If a Citywide contract is not in place, City departments are
       encouraged to use Long Beach suppliers for purchases they directly
       procure. Departments have the ability to make direct procurement of
       materials, goods, supplies, and professional services not
       exceeding  $10,000 if a city wide contract does not exist.
     * The Diversity Outreach Officer attends and participates in business
       association meetings to promote the “Buy Long Beach” Program.
     * The 24-hour Procurement Opportunity Hotline (562)570-6361, ext. 7)
       gives recorded bid information on materials, goods, supplies, and
       non-professional services. The hotline provides bid numbers and
       brief descriptions for bids $100,000 and under and those over
       $100,000, which require City Council approval. To review a list of
       professional service bids, callers are requested to visit the
       Purchasing counter in the City Hall main lobby or review the
       Purchasing Division website.
     * Purchasing and Diversity Outreach Divisions’ outreach materials
       reiterate the City’s commitment to Long Beach businesses and DBEs/
       MBEs/WBEs. This material is widely distributed at Long Beach
       businesses meetings and regional business outreach events and are
       available on both websites. An example is the “Doing Business with
       the City of Long Beach” brochure.
     * To stay abreast of continuing programs and events that are designed
       to assist Long Beach businesses contact the Diversity Outreach
       Officer at (562) 570-6462.

   Over the last few years, City contracts awarded to Long Beach
   businesses have ranged from 25.8% to 42.9%. Every effort is made to
   locate and include Long Beach businesses in the bid process; and while
   many Long Beach businesses have been awarded City contracts over the
   years, others have not received awards because they did not submit the
   lowest responsible bid. To further assist businesses, the Diversity
   Outreach Division now provide workshops, technical assistance and
   pointers on how to be more competitive.


   "It makes good sense to do business with our diverse business
   community."


   Please contact our Diversity Outreach Officer Jesse Johnson at
   (562)570-6462 or e-mail at jejohns@ci.long-beach.ca.us for more
   information about these programs.



                     DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

               333 WEST OCEAN BOULEVARD, LONG BEACH, CA 90802

               Questions concerning this website please e-mail
                         diambri@ci.long-beach.ca.us
