http://www.blacksburg.gov/privacy.php

        Click here to return to the Blacksburg, Va. Home Page Welcome
       Click here to return to the Blacksburg, Va. Home Page Tabs for
                navigation: home, index, search, departments

                              Privacy Statement



   In this section:

   About Blacksburg
   About this web site
   Privacy Policy
   Visitors to Blacksburg

   Or return to the main
   Welcome page

Privacy Policy

   Thank you for visiting the Town of Blacksburg website and reviewing our
   privacy policy. The following statement has been developed to
   demonstrate our commitment to your privacy. Our privacy policy is
   clear: We will collect NO personal information about you when you visit
   www.blacksburg.gov unless you choose to provide that information to us.

If You Send Us Personal Information

   The security of the personal information you provide to the Town of
   Blacksburg is very important to us. If you choose to provide us with
   personal information such as an email or by filling out a form and
   submitting it to us through our website we use that information to
   respond to your message and to help us get you the information you have
   requested. We treat emails the same way we treat letters sent to us -
   we do not collect personal information for any other reason than to
   respond to you. We only share the information you give us with another
   government agency if your inquiry relates to that agency, or as
   otherwise required by law.

Cookies

   The Town of Blacksburg website uses cookies only for analysis of this
   web site. No personal information is collected. A Cookie is a small
   file that your web browser places on your hard drive when you visit our
   web site. When you re-visit our website, our cookie does not actually
   identify you, it just indicates that your computer has visited our site
   before. By knowing how and when guests use our site, cookies assist us
   in tracking user trends and patterns to help us improve for future use.

Security and Links

   The Town of Blacksburg site includes links to other sites, and when you
   choose to visit those sites, we are not responsible for their privacy
   policies or how they treat user information. We may permit third
   parties to offer registration-based services through our site. We are
   not responsible for the actions and policies of these third parties,
   and you should review the privacy policies of these parties when
   supplying personally identifiable information to them.

Kid's Page

   We at the Town of Blacksburg are especially concerned about protecting
   children's privacy. We hope parents and teachers are involved in
   children's Internet explorations. Our page for kids encourages children
   to email ideas to us, however providing personal information is
   entirely optional. We ask that children get their parents' or
   guardian's permission before providing any information online at our
   site or any other site and hope parents will always be involved in
   those decisions. Most importantly, when children do provide information
   through our web site, it is only used to enable us to respond to that
   specific request.

Additional Information

   The Town of Blacksburg reserves the right to alter our Privacy Policy
   as business needs require. Any changes will be posted to our web site
   in a timely manner. This statement and the policies outlined here are
   not intended to and do not give you any contractual or other legal
   rights.

   Blue Line
   Home | Welcome | E-News | Calendar | Economic Development | Government
   | E-Gov
   Services | Plans & Ordinances | Maps / GIS | Departments | Kids |
   Employment
   Blacksburg Transit | Forms & Publications | Search | Index

                    © 2001 Town of Blacksburg, Virginia
    http://www.blacksburg.gov   |   tobinfo@blacksburg.gov   |   Privacy
                                  Statement
