http://www.ncpc.gov/about.html

   About NCPC National Capital Planning Commission


   About NCPC

   Commission Meeting Information

   What's New

   Planning Initiatives

   Commission Actions

   Publications & Press Releases

   Information for
   Submitting Agencies

   Home




About NCPC


   Commission Members • Key Staff Members • History of NCPC • NCPC Key
   Activities • History of Planning in Washington • Planning with
   Technology • Links • Jobs at NCPC




   Artist's rendering of North Capitol Street at New York Avenue
   Washington is the seat of government and symbolic heart of the nation,
   and planning for the Nation's Capital is different from planning for
   other cities. As the central planning agency for the federal
   government, the Commission is responsible for preserving the unique
   beauty and historic urban design that have made Washington one of the
   most admired capital cities in the world.

   The National Capital Planning Commission provides overall planning
   guidance for federal land and buildings in the National Capital Region,
   which includes the District of Columbia; the city of Alexandria; Prince
   George's and Montgomery Counties in Maryland; Arlington, Fairfax,
   Prince William, and Loudoun Counties in Virginia; and the cities and
   towns within these counties. Through its planning policies and review
   of development proposals, the Commission seeks to protect and enhance
   the extraordinary historical, cultural, and natural resources of the
   Nation's Capital.

   The Commission's offices are located at 401 9th Street, NW on the fifth
   floor of the Market Square North Building. NCPC is easily accessible by
   Metrorail (take the green or yellow line to Archives/Navy Memorial or
   the red line to Gallery Place). Parking for a fee is available in the
   building of 801 Pennsylvania Avenue through the D Street entrance.

   Questions, comments, suggestions? We welcome them all and the
   Commission encourages your participation. You can contact us by mail,
   fax, telephone, and e-mail.

                                 Top of Page

                                  NCPC logo


   401 9th Street, NW • North Lobby, Suite 500 • Washington, D.C. 20576
   Phone: (202) 482-7200 • Fax: (202) 482-7272 • Email: info@ncpc.gov
   accessibility • privacy, freedom of information & disclosure • FAIR Act
   • site map
