http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/topics.cfm?ID=62


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   E-Commerce

   work together



   The transactions of goods and services over the Internet has changed
   the way the world does business. "E-Commerce" will help small and large
   businesses remain competitive. Here is our growing list of e-commerce
   resources, training, information, and best practices.


   Access Minnesota Main Street

   Access Minnesota Main Street connects small- to medium-sized businesses
   to the Internet, electronic commerce, and global trade. The project
   teaches business people from six Minnesota communities about the
   potential of electronic commerce to dramatically increase access to
   resources and to expand their available markets.

   Cisco Systems Network Academies

   This collaboration partners educational institutions, corporations,
   government agencies, and non-profit organizations to provide eduication
   and training in the Networked Information Technology sector.

   E-commerce Information

   Information, statistics, whats reliable and whats not and links to more
   information and reports on e-commerce.

   E-Commerce Learning and Resources

   Link here to get a quick online lesson on e-commerce and to get
   information on more advanced and in depth e-commerce curriculums.

   Funding Your Education Needs

   These links may help individuals find funding for all types of
   education and training, including distance learning.

   Go For IT!

   Database of information technology (IT) education, employment and
   training programs by type, city, state or region, sponsor and key
   words.

   Manufacturing Extension Partnership

   Hands-on assistance for small to medium size manufacturers in wide
   range of areas from product testing to e-commerce; centers in every
   state sponsored by the U. S. Department of Commerce

   Northwest Center for Emerging Technologies

   A great resource for program, resource, and best practice information
   for IT education providers and seekers.

   SBA and Cisco Systems E-commerce Program

   The United States Small Business Administration and Cisco System's
   E-Commerce Program brings you through the basics with online e-commerce
   instruction and tutorials.

   SBA and Cisco Systems Internet Essentials

   Get a solid knowledge of the Internet economy, and the technologies and
   services you will need to put the power of the Internet to work for
   you.

   SBA Profile

   Welcome to SBA Profile: Who We Are & What We Do, 5th edition. A
   comprehensive guide to the SBA's programs and services, Profile is
   designed to aid you in helping your customers and constituencies small
   business owners and potential entrepreneurs.

   U.S. Business Advisor

   In keeping with the President's and Vice President's vision of using
   information technology to enable better customer service, federal
   agencies worked together to build the U.S. Business Advisor - a
   one-stop electronic link to all the information and services government
   provides for the business community.

   Women and the IT Revolution

   This website outlines a two year study on the role of Women in the IT
   profession and education system and recommends strategies at curbing
   the IT gender disparity.

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
