http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/cic_text/employ/resumes/resumes.htm

   Résumés, applications, and cover letters

   by Olivia Crosby

   Occupational Outlook Quarterly l Summer 1999

   You have skills that employers want. But those skills won’t get you a
   job if no one knows you have them.

   Good résumés, applications, and cover letters broadcast your abilities.
   They tell employers how your qualifications match a job’s
   responsibilities. If these paper preliminaries are constructed well,
   you have a better chance of landing interviews— and, eventually, a job.

   Modern technology has added a new twist to preparing résumés and cover
   letters. The availability of personal computers and laser printers has
   raised employers’ expectations of the quality of résumés and cover
   letters applicants produce. Electronic mail, Internet postings, and
   software that “reads” résumés help some employers sort and track
   hundreds of résumés. Technology has also given résumé writers greater
   flexibility; page limits and formatting standards are no longer as
   rigid as they were several years ago. “The only rule is that there are
   no rules,” says Frank Fox, executive director of the Professional
   Association of Résumé Writers. “Résumés should be error free— no typos
   or spelling mistakes— but beyond that, use any format that conveys the
   information well.”

   However, the no-rules rule does not mean anything goes. You still have
   to consider what is reasonable and appropriate for the job you want.
   Advertisements for a single job opening can generate dozens, even
   hundreds, of responses. Busy reviewers often spend as little as 30
   seconds deciding whether a résumé deserves consideration. And in some
   companies, if a résumé is not formatted for computer scanning, it may
   never reach a human reviewer.

   This article provides some guidelines for creating résumés and cover
   letters that will help you pass the 30- second test and win interviews.
   The first section, on résumés, describes what information they should
   contain, how to highlight your skills for the job you want, types of
   résumés, and formatting résumés for easy reading and computer scanning.
   The next section discusses the four parts of a cover letter—
   salutation, opening, body, and closing. A final section offers
   suggestions for finding out more about résumés and cover letters.

   Résumés: Marketing your skills

   A résumé is a brief summary of your experience, education, and skills.
   It is a marketing piece, usually one or two pages long, designed to
   make an employer want to interview you. Good résumés match the
   jobseeker’s abilities to the job’s requirements. The best résumés
   highlight an applicant’s strengths and accomplishments.

   There are four main steps to creating a résumé: Compiling information
   about yourself and the occupations that interest you, choosing a résumé
   format, adding style, and proofreading the final document. You may also
   want to prepare your résumé for computer scanning, e- mailing, and
   Internet posting, especially if you are pursuing a computer- intensive
   field.

   Gathering and organizing the facts

   Start working on your résumé by collecting and reviewing information
   about yourself: Previous positions, job duties, volunteer work, skills,
   accomplishments, education, and activities. These are the raw materials
   of your résumé. This is also a good time to review your career goals
   and to think about which past jobs you have liked, and why.

   After compiling this information, research the occupations that
   interest you. Determine what duties they entail, what credentials they
   require, and what skills they use. Your résumé will use your
   autobiographical information to show that you meet an occupation’s
   requirements. You will probably need to write a different résumé for
   each occupation that interests you. Each résumé will emphasize what is
   relevant to one occupation. Remember: Even if you do not have many
   specialized and technical skills, most occupations also require
   abilities like reliability, teamwork, and communication. These are
   particularly important for entry- level workers.

   The next step is to organize the personal information you have
   assembled. Most résumé writers use the following components.

   Contact information. This includes your name; permanent and college
   campus addresses, if they are different; phone number; and e- mail
   address, if you have one. Place your full legal name at the top of your
   résumé and your contact information underneath it. This information
   should be easy to see; reviewers who can’t find your phone number can’t
   call you for an interview. Also, make sure the outgoing message on your
   answering machine sounds professional. If you list an e- mail address,
   remember to check your inbox regularly.

   Objective statement. Placed immediately below your contact information,
   the objective statement tells the reviewer what kind of position you
   want— for example, “Seeking a position as an administrative assistant.”
   Some objectives include more detail, such as “Seeking an administrative
   position using my organizational, word processing, and customer service
   skills.”

   Objective statements are optional and are most often used by recent
   graduates and career changers. “I like to see an objective on a résumé
   because it shows focus,” says Jannette Beamon of Dell Computers’
   Central Staffing Division in Round Rock, Texas.

   But writing objectives can be tricky. A vague statement, such as
   “Seeking a position that uses my skills and experience,” is
   meaningless. And an overly specific objective can backfire, eliminating
   you from jobs you want that are slightly different from your objective.
   If you decide to include an objective statement, make sure it fits the
   job you are applying for. “Tailoring is expected,” says Beamon. “A
   statement should show that you know the type of work the company does
   and the type of position it needs to fill.”

   Qualifications summary. The qualifications summary, which evolved from
   the objective, is an overview designed to quickly answer the employer’s
   question “Why should I hire you?” It lists a few of your best
   qualifications and belongs below your contact information or objective
   statement.

   A qualifications summary, like an objective, is optional. It can be
   particularly effective for applicants with extensive or varied
   experience because it prevents the important facts from being lost
   among the details. Most résumé writers choose either an objective or a
   summary, but some use both.

   Education. List all relevant training, certifications, and education on
   your résumé. Start with the most recent and work backward. For each
   school you have attended, list the school’s name and location; diploma,
   certificate, or degree earned, along with year of completion; field of
   study; and honors received. If you have not yet completed one of your
   degrees, use the word expected before your graduation date. If you do
   not know when you will graduate, add in progress after the name of the
   unfinished degree.

   The education section is especially important for recent graduates.
   Include your overall grade point average, average within major, or
   class standing, if it helps your case. The general guideline is to
   include averages of 3.0 and above, but the minimum useful average is
   still widely debated. Graduates should also consider listing relevant
   courses under a separate heading. Listing four to eight courses related
   to a particular occupation shows a connection between education and
   work. College graduates need not list their high school credentials.

   Experience. Résumés should include your job history: The name and
   location of the organizations you have worked for, years you worked
   there, title of your job, a few of the duties you performed, and
   results you achieved. Also, describe relevant volunteer activities,
   internships, and school projects, especially if you have little paid
   experience.

   When describing your job duties, emphasize results instead of
   responsibilities and performance rather than qualities. It is not
   enough, for example, to claim you are organized; you must use your
   experience to prove it.

   Job descriptions often specify the scope of a position’s duties— such
   as the number of phone lines answered, forms processed, or people
   supervised. If you worked on a project with other people, tell the
   reviewer your accomplishments came from a team effort. Also, mention
   any promotions or increases in responsibility you received.

   Use specific accomplishments to give your experience impact. Note any
   improvements you made, any time or money you saved, and any problems
   you solved— for example, were you praised for handling difficult
   customers? Were you always on time or available for overtime? Did you
   save time by reorganizing a filing system? Did you start a new program?
   Mention quantifiable results you accomplished, such as a 10- percent
   increase in sales, a 90- percent accuracy rate, a 25- percent increase
   in student participation, or an A grade.

   Activities and associations. Activities can be an excellent source of
   additional experience. “A lot of students in high school or college
   don’t have much concrete work experience,” says Alicia Mallaney, a
   recruiter for a management consulting firm in McLean, Virginia. “They
   should list their involvement in school or extracurricular activities—
   employers look for those kinds of things because they show initiative.”

   Activities might include participation in organizations, associations,
   student government, clubs, or community activities, especially those
   related to the position you are applying for or that demonstrate hard
   work and leadership skills.

   Special skills. If you have specific computer, foreign language,
   typing, or other technical skills, consider highlighting them by giving
   them their own category— even if they don’t relate directly to the
   occupation you’re pursuing. “At Dell, most of our applicants list
   programming and computer application skills in their own section,” says
   Beamon. “But now, most occupations, even outside the computer industry,
   require computer skills. People in every industry are listing those
   skills separately.”

   Awards and honors. Include formal recognition you have received. Do not
   omit professional or academic awards. These are often listed with an
   applicant’s experience or education, but some list them at the end of
   their resume.

   References. Usually, résumés do not include names of references, but
   some reviewers suggest breaking this rule if the names are recognizable
   in the occupation or industry. Most résumé writers end with the
   statement “References available upon request.” Others assume reference
   availability is understood and use that space for more important
   information. Regardless of whether you mention it on the résumé, you
   will need to create a separate reference sheet to provide when
   requested and to carry with you to interviews.

   A reference sheet lists the name, title, office address, and phone
   number of three to five people who know your abilities. Before offering
   them as references, of course, make sure these people have agreed to
   recommend you. At the top of the sheet, type your name and contact
   information, repeating the format you used in your résumé.

   Other personal information. Your résumé should include any other
   information that is important to your occupation, such as a completed
   portfolio or a willingness to travel. Your résumé is your own, and you
   should customize it to fit your needs. However, some information does
   not belong on a résumé. Do not disclose your health, disability,
   marital status, age, or ethnicity. This information is illegal for most
   employers to request.

   Tips:
     * Good résumés show how your qualifications fit the requirements of
       the jobs you apply for.
     * Most occupations require abilities like reliability, teamwork, and
       communication.
     * Good résumé objectives focus on the employer’s needs.
     * Nonwork activities add experience to your résumé.
     * Tailor your résumé for each occupation or job of interest.
     * Use action phrases— not complete sentences.
     * Highlight specific achievements.
     * Include quantifiable results where possible.
     * Identify increases in responsibility.
     * Mention special work related skills.
     * Identify coursework relating to the employer’s needs.

   Applications: Fitting yourself to the form

   Many jobs require jobseekers to complete an application instead of
   submitting a résumé. But an application is a résumé in disguise: Its
   purpose is to show your qualifications. Assembling the following
   information about yourself in advance will make it easier to complete
   applications:
     * Identification. Be prepared to give your name, address, phone
       number, and social security number. You may also need to bring
       proof of identification when you pick up and drop off the
       application.
     * Employment history. List the month and year you started and ended
       each job; your supervisor’s name, address, and phone number; your
       job title, location, salary, and major duties; and your reason for
       leaving.
     * Education and certification. Know the name and city of the schools
       you attended and the year you received your degrees and the name,
       level, and award and renewal dates of certification.
     * Special skills. List any special skills you have that are closely
       related to the job, such as computer applications, typing speed, or
       equipment operation.
     * References. Provide the names, phone numbers, and addresses of
       three or four people who have agreed to recommend you.

   When you pick up an application, don’t miss an opportunity to make a
   good first impression. Dress as you would for the job. Politely request
   two copies of the form, or make your own copies of the original before
   you start filling it out. Read the entire application before you begin.
   Then, use one copy as a rough draft and the other as the final product.
   Use a typewriter or write neatly with black ink.

   Answer every question on the application. Write “not applicable” or
   “none” if a question does not apply to you. Some reviewers suggest
   answering “will discuss in interview” if asked for information that
   might disqualify you.

   Make a copy of your completed application. If you go back for an
   interview, take this record with you. Having a completed form will also
   make it easier to fill out the next one.

   Although forms do not offer the same flexibility as a résumé, you can
   still find ways to highlight your best qualifications. For example, you
   can use strong action verbs to describe your duties. If you do not have
   paid experience, you can give job titles to your volunteer work or list
   relevant academic experience, substituting student for job titles.

   Computer applications. If you are filling out an application for a
   computer database, you will want to use keywords and simple formatting—
   no boldface or bullets. Put the most important information first.
   Include as much information as you can for each question without
   becoming wordy or repetitive. The more relevant details you provide,
   the better your chances of using a keyword that matches an employer’s
   requirements. Before submitting the form, copy and paste your answers
   into a word- processing program so you can check the spelling.

   Choosing a format

   There are three main résumé formats— chronological, functional, and
   combination. Each is defined by the way it organizes your experience.
   Choose the one that shows your experience to its best advantage.

   Chronological. This résumé type is the most common. It organizes your
   experience around the jobs you have held. This format is an excellent
   choice for people with steady work histories or previous jobs that
   relate closely to their career objective.

   To create a chronological résumé, list each position you have held,
   starting with the most recent and working backward. For each position,
   give the title of your job, name of the organization you worked for,
   and years you worked there. Next, relate the duties and accomplishments
   of that job. When describing your jobs, use action stamore space, find
   some way to divide the information itements, not sentences. Instead of
   writing “I managed a fundraising campaign,” write, “Managed a
   fundraising campaign.” Use strong verbs to begin each statement.

   Be specific, but not overly detailed, in describing what you did.
   Employers say three to five statements are usually sufficient for each
   job. And no job should have more than four consecutive lines of
   information under it; large blocks of text are difficult to read. If
   you must use nto categories.

   Your most important positions should occupy the most space on your
   résumé. If you’ve had jobs that do not relate to the position you want,
   consider dividing your experience into two categories: Relevant
   experience and other experience. Describe the relevant jobs thoroughly,
   and briefly mention the others. If you have had many jobs, you probably
   do not need to mention the oldest or least important ones. Just be
   careful not to create damaging gaps in your work history. For a sample
   chronological résumé, click here.

   Because the chronological format emphasizes dates and job titles, it is
   often a poor format for career changers, people with inconsistent work
   histories, or new entrants to the work force. For these applicants, the
   functional résumé is a better choice.

   Functional. The functional résumé organizes your experience around
   skills rather than job titles. “I often recommend the functional format
   to students who have not had positions that relate directly to the job
   they want,” says Bryan Kempton, Program Director of the Career Center
   at the University of Maryland, College Park. “By organizing their
   experiences around skills, they can connect less relevant jobs to the
   career qualifications they need. For instance, a job waiting tables can
   be combined with other examples to show organizational or customer
   service skills.”

   To create a functional résumé, identify three or four skills required
   for your target job. For each skill, identify three to five concrete
   examples to demonstrate that ability. Again, use action phrases— not
   complete sentences— when writing your list.

   Arrange your skill headings in order of importance. If you have a
   specific vacancy announcement, match the arrangement of your headings
   to that of its listed requirements. The closer the match between your
   skill headings and the reviewer’s expectations, the more qualified you
   seem.

   The last part of the functional résumé is a brief work history. Write
   only job titles, company names, and employment years. If you have gaps
   in your work history, you could use the cover letter to explain them,
   or you could fill them by adding volunteer work, community activities,
   or family responsibilities to your job list. For a sample functional
   résumé, click here.

   Combination. This format combines the best of the chronological format
   with the best of the functional format. Combination résumés are as
   varied as the histories they summarize. One variation begins with a
   chronological format but then subdivides each job description into
   skill categories. Another variation uses a functional format but, for
   each example of a skill, identifies the organization where the example
   occurred.

   Tips:
     * Chronological résumés organize your experience around the jobs you
       have held.
     * Functional résumés emphasize skills rather than employment history.
     * Sprinkle your résumé with language found in the position
       description.
     * Use a laser printer and keep the font size at 10 points or above.
     * Avoid mistakes by having several people proofread for you.

   Adding style

   You will create a good impression if your résumé is attractive and easy
   to read. An inviting style draws attention to your qualifications. If
   you take pity on the reviewer’s eyes, chances are better that he or she
   will spend more time reviewing your résumé— and will remember it
   better.

   To make your résumé easier to read and copy, print it on white or
   lightly colored paper. Loud, garish colors may attract attention, but
   they risk creating an unprofessional impression. Also, use a laser
   printer and keep the font size at 10 point or above. The reviewer
   shouldn’t have to struggle to read your words.

   Design. Good résumé writers use design elements strategically.
   Boldface, large type, capital letters, centering, or horizontal lines
   can be used to make headings stand out on the page. Bullets or italics
   can draw attention to key accomplishments. One inch margins around the
   page and blank lines between sections will make all the information
   easier to see.

   Any graphics you use should be consistent with your occupation’s
   standards. Graphics appropriate for one occupation might be
   inappropriate for another. As Tom Harris, a manager at a marketing firm
   in Minneapolis, explains, “Small design elements are nice— a border or
   a name and address printed in letterhead style. But large graphics are
   distracting. They make me wonder if the person would rather be a
   graphic artist instead of an account manager.”

   To give your résumé a consistent flow, maintain the same style from
   beginning to end. Every section should have the same design elements.
   For example, if your education heading is bold and centered, every
   heading should be bold and cen tered. In the same way, chose one
   typeface, such as Arial, Courier, or Times New Roman, and use it
   throughout. When you have finished, hold your résumé at arm’s length
   and examine it. Make sure the type is easy to read and that the
   material lays out evenly on the page. You may need to experiment with
   different styles before deciding which you like best.

   Length. A long résumé is difficult for a reviewer to digest and retain;
   and, given the volume of résumés many reviewers receive, long résumés
   are often ignored. Although rules about length are more flexible than
   they once were, general guidelines still exist. Most students and
   recent graduates use a onepage résumé, other workers use one or two
   pages, and the very experienced use two or three pages. If your résumé
   doesn’t match this pattern, it probably contains unnecessary words or
   irrelevant information. Eliminate anything that does not help prove
   you’re qualified for the job.

   Proofreading

   Take time to prepare the best résumé you can. You might not be the most
   qualified candidate for every job, but your résumé might be better than
   the competition. The most common mistakes are simple typographical and
   spelling errors. Computer spelling checkers do not catch correctly
   spelled words used incorrectly—“ of” for “on,” for example, or “their”
   for “there.” You want your résumé to stand out, but not for the wrong
   reasons. Avoid mistakes by having several people proofread for you.

   Before you send out a résumé, review the vacancy announcement and fine-
   tune your résumé to meet employers’ specific criteria. Sprinkle your
   résumé with language found in the position description, paying special
   attention to your objective and qualifications summary if you have
   them.

   Finally, consider how your résumé will look when it arrives on a
   reviewer’s desk. Hastily stuffed, illegibly addressed, and sloppily
   sealed envelopes do nothing to enhance your image as a neat, would- be
   professional. If you are faxing your résumé, set the fax machine to
   fine printing mode, and always fax an original. Your résumé may have to
   withstand several trips through a copy machine, so you want it to
   transmit as clearly as possible.

   Going digital

   Résumés can be formatted for e- mailing, posting to Internet sites, or
   scanning. These digital résumés include the same information other
   résumés do, and they come in the same varieties— chronological,
   functional, or combination. But digital résumés use simpler,
   technologically friendly formatting, and they emphasize keywords. This
   section describes two types of digital résumés: Plain text résumés that
   can be e- mailed to employers or posted to databases and scannable
   paper résumés that can be read by computer optics. To learn how to turn
   your résumé into a Web page, visit Internet sites, such as those listed
   at the end of this article.

   Plain text résumés. Résumés that are e- mailed or posted to Internet
   databases are designed for computer use. These résumés must be written
   using the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII),
   also known as plain text. Plain text contains no special formatting
   codes, so every computer can understand it.

   To create a plain text résumé, open your existing résumé document with
   a word processing program, and save it as a text or ASCII file. This
   will eliminate formatting codes. You can use the computer’s built- in
   text editor application, such as Notepad for Windows or Simpletext for
   Macintosh, to edit the résumé.

   The success of your résumé depends, in part, on the number of keywords
   it contains— the number of times its words match the words requested by
   a manager. You can add keywords to your résumé by scrutinizing job
   announcements and, where appropriate, copying their exact words when
   describing your skills. Fill your résumé with important nouns the
   computer will recognize, such as professional organizations and
   industry jargon. Each abbreviation you use should be followed by the
   phrase it stands for, with the exception of B. S. and B. A. for
   Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts.

   List every keyword that applies to you; do not expect the computer to
   infer. For example, don’t simply write “word processing: Microsoft
   Office.” Instead, write “word processing: Microsoft Office,
   WordPerfect, Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.” Rules about length
   are relaxed for digital résumés. Some career counselors even suggest
   adding a keyword paragraph to the top of your résumé, but others do not
   believe such paragraphs are useful.

   Writers of plain text résumés should not use any characters or
   formatting not found on a standard keyboard. Boldface, italics, and
   underlining are unavailable, as are tabs, bullets, and multiple font
   sizes. But alternative attention- getting devices are still useful;
   asterisks and plus signs can replace bullets, rows of dashes can
   separate sections, and all capital letters can emphasize headings.

   The word wrap function is also disabled when writing in ASCII. Words
   will not automatically move from one line to the next. Instead, you
   must hit the enter key at the end of every line. A line should hold
   only 65 characters, or it may not fit on the reviewer’s screen. To be
   certain your line lengths are correct, count characters and use a
   standard- width typeface, such as Courier. Times New Roman is not a
   standard- width typeface, so 65 of its characters will not always
   translate to 65 of the reviewer’s characters. For a sample plain text
   résumé, click here.

   Before e- mailing your résumé to an employer, e- mail it to yourself
   and a friend to see how it transmits. That way, you may be able to
   uncover some formatting errors. When an employer asks for an e- mailed
   résumé, never attach a word- processed document unless specifically
   requested to do so. Employers may not be able to open a word- processed
   document. Even if they can, they may not want to risk receiving a
   computer virus. Always send your cover letter and résumé as text in a
   single message. If you are responding to an advertisement or job
   posting, use that posting as the subject line of your message.

   You can also post your plain text résumé to Internet databases and
   apply instantly to thousands of companies. When you do this, the posted
   résumé becomes public information. Take precautions, such as omitting
   your home address and the address of your current employer. The
   Internet can be part of a complete job search effort, but it should not
   be your sole job searching technique. Most companies still do not use
   Internet recruiting.

   Scannable résumés. Many large companies, and a growing number of small
   ones, use computers to sort the hundreds of résumés they receive. These
   companies scan paper résumés into a computer database. When managers
   need to fill a position, they program the computer with keywords that
   describe the qualifications they want in a candidate. The computer then
   searches its database for résumés that include those keywords. The
   résumés with the most matches are forwarded to the managers.

   This new technology is good news for jobseekers. Now when these
   companies put your résumé on file, your qualifications are ready and
   waiting to be electronically retrieved, not languishing in a desk
   drawer. Before you submit your résumé to a company, call the company to
   find out if it scans. If it does, you will need to make sure your
   résumé’s design is computer friendly.

   Stylistic touches that are easy on a human’s eyes may not be so easy on
   a computer scanner. Résumés that will be scanned should be devoid of
   any graphics or formatting that a computer might misinterpret. The
   following steps will increase a scanner’s ability to read your résumé:
     * Use nontextured white or offwhite paper with black letters.
     * Choose a well- known font such as Helvetica, Arial, or Courier.
     * Pick a font size of 10 to 14 points, and do not condense spacing
       between letters.
     * Do not underline or italicize text, and do not use asterisks or
       parentheses. Modern systems can understand bold, but older systems
       might not. You can still distinguish headings by using capital
       letters.
     * Avoid boxes, graphics, columns, and horizontal or vertical lines.
     * Put your name on its own line at the top of each page. Also, give
       telephone numbers their own lines.
     * Do not staple or fold your résumé.

   Tips:
     * Résumés can be formatted for scanning, e-mailing, or posting to
       Internet sites.
     * Digital résumés use simple, technologically friendly formatting.
     * Digital résumés emphasize keywords.
     * Plain text resumes should not exceed 65 characters per line.
     * E-mail a plain text résumé to yourself and to a friend to test the
       way it transmits.

   Cover letters: Introducing yourself

   Every résumé you send, fax, or e- mail needs its own cover letter.
   Sending a résumé without a cover letter is like starting an interview
   without shaking hands. The best cover letters spark the employer’s
   interest and create an impression of competence.

   Cover letters are an opportunity to convey your focus and energy. “If
   you don’t have a lot of experience, use the cover letter to show you
   have enthusiasm,” says Sharon Swann, manager of administrative services
   for a management consulting firm in Menlo Park, California. “Writing a
   strong cover letter and then calling to follow up shows the employer
   you have drive and interest.” Although you should feel free to consult
   ref erences and models, use your own words when writing a cover letter;
   don’t mimic another person’s writing style.

   Parts of the cover letter

   Cover letters should be written in standard business format with your
   and the reviewer’s addresses at the top and your signature above your
   typed name at the bottom. (E- mailed cover letters do not include
   mailing addresses.) All letters should be single spaced, flush left,
   with each paragraph followed by a blank line. Use professional, polite
   words. Revealing your personality is fine, as long as your style
   conforms to business protocol. For a sample cover letter, click here.

   Most cover letters are two or three paragraphs long. Every cover letter
   should fit on one page and contain the following four parts:
   Salutation, opening, body, and conclusion.

   Salutation. Whenever possible, send your letter to a specific person
   rather than to an office. Consider how differently you respond to a
   letter addressed to you, as opposed to one addressed to “Occupant.” If
   you do not know whom to write, call the company and ask who is hiring
   for the position. Check that the name you use is spelled correctly and
   the title is accurate. Pay close attention to the Mr. or Ms. before
   gender- neutral names. Finally, use a colon after the name, not a
   comma.

   Opening. The first few sentences of your cover letter should tell the
   reviewer which job you are applying for and the connection you have to
   the company. If someone the reviewer knows suggested you apply, mention
   that recommendation. If you are responding to an advertisement, refer
   to it and the source that published it.

   Your knowledge of the company might give you another opportunity to
   connect yourself to the job. You could briefly describe your experience
   with its products, cite a recent company success, or refer to an
   article written about the company. But don’t go overboard; save
   specifics for the interview.

   Body. The next portion of your cover letter is a brief explanation of
   your qualifications. Don’t simply repeat your résumé; summarize your
   most relevant qualifications or provide additional details about a
   noteworthy accomplishment. Address the employer’s requirements
   directly, and don’t be afraid to use special formatting to your
   advantage. “One of the best cover letters I’ve ever received,” says Tom
   Harris, a manager at a Minneapolis marketing firm, “included a chart
   with my requirements on the left and the applicant’s matching
   qualifications on the right.”

   You can also use the body of your cover letter to address gaps in your
   work history or other problems evident on your résumé. But do not
   volunteer negative information unless you must. Always maintain a
   positive, confident tone.

   Closing. In your final paragraph, thank the reviewer, request an
   interview, and repeat your home phone number. The closing is your
   chance to show commitment to the job. If you tell the reviewer you plan
   to call, make sure you do it. “It really impresses me when someone
   takes the step to call and follow up,” says Vin Vu, former Director of
   Sales and Marketing for a company in Spokane, Washington. “You have to
   be aggressive and continue to keep your name in the interviewer’s
   mind.”

   Tips:
     * Every résumé you send, fax, or e-mail needs its own cover letter.
     * Every cover letter should fit on one page.
     * Send your letter to a specific person rather than to an office
       whenever possible.
     * The first few sentences tell which job you are applying for.
     * Briefly explain your qualifications without simply repeating your
       résumé.

   For more information

   Learn more about writing résumés and cover letters by consulting the
   many sources of information available on both subjects. One of the best
   places to go is your local library, where you can read a variety of
   books that match your needs and preferences. Some books give general
   advice and instruction, some address specific problems or occupations,
   and others are a compendium of sample résumés and cover letters. Be
   careful to choose recently published books. Résumé standards change
   with time.

   Look in the Occupational Outlook Handbook for information about the job
   duties, working conditions, and training requirements of many
   occupations. The Handbook is available online at
   http://www.bls.gov/oco/ and can also be found in most libraries and
   career centers.

   Visit the counselors at your school, career center, or State employment
   office. They have resources and advice to help you choose an
   occupation; write résumés, cover letters, and applications; and develop
   a job searching strategy. State employment offices offer free advice
   and computer access to people who are unemployed. To find your State
   office, call (202) 219- 5257 or write:

   U. S. Employment Service
   200 Constitution Ave., NW
   Washington, DC 20212

   The Internet is full of résumé writing advice— but remember, websites
   are not filtered for accuracy or timeliness. Some established sites
   are:
     * JobSmart: Résumés and Cover Letters,
       http://www.jobsmart.org/tools/resume
     * The Riley Guide,
       http://www.rileyguide.com/
     * Rebecca Smith’s Electronic Résumés,
       http://www.eresumes.com/
     * The Quintessential Guide to Career Resources,
       http://www.quintcareers.com/

   Another option is a commercial résumé writing service. The Professional
   Association of Résumé Writers, established in 1990, has about 1,000
   members. For a fee, professional résumé writers help jobseekers write
   résumés and cover letters. Many of these professionals offer student
   rates, but fees may be higher for people with longer work histories.
   For a list of association members, visit the association website at
   http://www.parw.com/ or write:

   The Professional Association of Résumé Writers
   3637 4th St., Suite 330
   St. Petersburg, FL 33704
