http://www.hpcc.noaa.gov/keyattrib.html


   HPCC Banner
   Key Attributes of the Program Banner

   Collage with numbers , hurricane picture and a NODC produced graphic
   model of a hurricane.
   Grey band used as separator.

     The NOAA HPCC program couples very tightly to NOAA's mission in a
     number of ways.

     NOAA's research in climate prediction and weather forecasting, as
     supported by the HPCC Program, for example, is critical to its
     mission to describe and predict changes in the Earth's environment,
     manage the nation's ocean and coastal resources, and promote global
     stewardship of the world's oceans and atmosphere. This research
     depends on advances in high-end computing, on the collection and
     dissemination of environmental data, on the ability to visualize and
     analyze vast quantities of data, and on the ability of NOAA
     researchers to collaborate effectively, efficiently, and easily with
     colleagues throughout NOAA, the nation and even the world.

     Increased computing power will enable higher resolution in the
     current models of the Earth's atmosphere-ocean system. Increased
     resolution will enable more accurate representation of key features
     such as weather fronts and ocean eddies, and distortions due to
     clouds can be reduced. More accurate NOAA models will improve the
     understanding of the behavior of climate and weather systems,
     enabling better decision making by Government and industry on issues
     that affect both the environment and the economy.

     Through HPCC efforts that support climate modeling, NOAA will
     provide better simulations of atmosphere-ocean coupling and a
     first-ever direct attack on the regional climate change problem.
     More accurate, more timely assessment of the future impact of
     climate change will make it possible to avoid "false choices"
     between the economy and the global environment. In weather
     forecasting, finer resolution in global and regional models will
     result in better weather forecasting and warning services,
     especially for hazardous weather and flight safety.

     NOAA information is critical to the nation's ability to respond to
     most domestic crises either directly if weather related or due to a
     hazardous materials release, or indirectly through the effects of
     weather on the recovery effort for earthquakes, fire, or terrorism.
     Through HPCC efforts in advanced networking and information
     management technology, critical data and information are becoming
     available more quickly, from more diverse sources, yet in a more
     integrated form for use during emergencies.

     NOAA has become a U.S. Government and world leader in the
     dissemination of information through the Internet, so as to perform
     its mission better and to support the timely provision of
     information to its federal partners and the public.

   spacer

   line
   HPCC Home Button
   line

   spacer

                                    line

                      NOAA Office of High Performance
                      Computing and Communications
                      1315 East-West Highway, Rm. 9626
                      Silver Spring, MD. 20910

                      Last Modified: 4/23/2001
