http://www.nhtsa.dot.gov/cars/rules/rulings/Cafe/LightTruck/NPRM.html

                        DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

               National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                               49 CFR Part 533

                        [Docket No. NHTSA-2001-11048]
                                RIN 2127-AI68

         Light Truck Average Fuel Economy Standard, Model Year 2004

   AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).

   ACTION: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.

   SUMMARY: This document proposes to establish the corporate average fuel
   economy standard for light trucks manufactured in model year (MY) 2004.
   The establishment of the standard is required by statute. The proposed
   standard is 20.7 mpg.

   DATES: Comments must be received on or before [insert date 30 days
   after date of publication in the Federal Register]. The comment period
   has been shortened due to a statutory deadline.

   ADDRESS: You should mention the docket number of this document in your
   comments and submit your comments in writing to: Docket Management,
   Room PL-401, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C., 20590.
   Comments may also be submitted to the docket electronically by logging
   onto the Dockets Management System website at http://dms.dot.gov. Click
   on "Help & Information" or "Help/Info" to obtain instructions for
   filing the document electronically.

   You may call Docket Management at 202-366-9324. You may visit the
   Docket from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.

   FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For non-legal issues, call Ken Katz,
   Office of Planning and Consumer Programs, at (202) 366-0846, facsimile
   (202) 493-2290, electronic mail kkatz@nhtsa.dot.gov. For legal issues,
   call Otto Matheke, Office of the Chief Counsel, at 202-366-5263.

   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

   I. Background

   In December 1975, during the aftermath of the energy crisis created by
   the oil embargo of 1973-74, Congress enacted the Energy Policy and
   Conservation Act. The Act established an automotive fuel economy
   regulatory program by adding Title V, "Improving Automotive
   Efficiency," to the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Saving Act.
   Title V was amended from time to time, and was codified without
   substantive change as Chapter 329 of Title 49 of the United States
   Code. Chapter 329 provides for the issuance of average fuel economy
   standards for passenger automobiles and automobiles that are not
   passenger automobiles (light trucks).

   Section 32902(a) of Chapter 329 states that the Secretary of
   Transportation shall, at least eighteen months prior to the beginning
   of each model year, prescribe by regulation corporate average fuel
   economy (CAFE) standards for light trucks for that model year. That
   section also states that "[e]ach standard shall be the maximum feasible
   average fuel economy level that the Secretary decides the manufacturers
   can achieve in that model year." (The Secretary has delegated the
   authority to implement the automotive fuel economy program to the
   Administrator of NHTSA. 49 CFR 1.50(f).) Section 32902(f) provides
   that, in determining the maximum feasible average fuel economy level,
   we shall consider four criteria: technological feasibility, economic
   practicability, the effect of other motor vehicle standards of the
   Government on fuel economy, and the need of the United States to
   conserve energy. Using this authority, we have set light truck CAFE
   standards through MY 2003. See 49 CFR 533.5(a). The standard for
   MY 2003 is 20.7 miles per gallon (mpg)(66 FR 17513; April 12, 2001).

   From 1995 through mid-December 2001, the standards-setting process for
   light truck CAFE standards was affected by restrictions imposed in the
   Department of Transportation's annual Appropriations Acts.

   On November 15, 1995, the Department of Transportation and Related
   Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 1996 was enacted. Pub. L. 104-50.
   Section 330 of that Act provides:

     None of the funds in this Act shall be available to prepare,
     propose, or promulgate any regulations . . . prescribing corporate
     average fuel economy standards for automobiles . . . in any model
     year that differs from standards promulgated for such automobiles
     prior to enactment of this section.

   We then issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), limited to
   MY 1998, that proposed to set the light truck CAFE standard for that
   year at 20.7 mpg, the same standard as had been set for MY 1997. 61 FR
   145 (January 3, 1996). We adopted this 20.7 mpg-standard in a final
   rule issued on March 29, 1996. 61 FR 14680 (April 3, 1996).

   On September 30, 1996, the Department of Transportation and Related
   Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 1997 was enacted. Pub. L. 104-205.
   Section 323 of that Act provides:

     None of the funds in this Act shall be available to prepare,
     propose, or promulgate any regulations . . . prescribing corporate
     average fuel economy standards for automobiles . . . in any model
     year that differs from standards promulgated for such automobiles
     prior to enactment of this section.

   On March 31, 1997, we issued a final rule (62 FR 15859) establishing
   light truck fuel economy standards for MY 1999. This final rule was not
   preceded by an NPRM. The agency concluded that the restriction
   contained in Section 323 of the FY 1997 Appropriations Act prevented us
   from issuing any standards at a level other than the standard set for
   MY 1998. Because we had no other course of action, we determined that
   issuing an NPRM was unnecessary and contrary to the public interest.

   Because the same limitation on the setting for CAFE standards was
   included in the appropriations acts for FYs 1998-2001, we followed that
   same procedure during those fiscal years and did not issue any NPRMs in
   the series of rulemakings we conducted to establish the light truck
   fuel economy standards for MYs 2000-2003. The agency concluded in those
   rulemakings, as it had when setting the MY 1999 standard, that the
   restrictions contained in the appropriations acts prevented us from
   issuing any standards other than the standard set for the prior model
   year. We also determined that issuing an NPRM was unnecessary and
   contrary to the public interest because we had no other course of
   action.

   The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations
   Act for FY 2001 was enacted on October 23, 2000. Pub. L. 106-346. This
   law provided appropriations for the Department of Transportation for FY
   2001, and is the law under which we issued the light truck CAFE
   standard for MY 2003. While Section 320 of that Act contains a
   restriction on CAFE rulemaking identical to that contained in prior
   appropriation acts, the Conference Committee Report for that Act
   directed the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to conduct a study to
   evaluate the effectiveness and impacts of CAFE standards (H.R. Conf.
   Rep. No. 106-940, at 117-118).

   The NAS submitted its report to the Department of Transportation on
   July 30, 2001. The report contains a number of key findings and
   recommendations. The Department of Transportation is in the process of
   evaluating and responding to the issues raised by the report. With
   regard to this proposal, however, it is important to note that the NAS
   also found that any policy change that is implemented in too short a
   period of time has the potential to adversely affect manufacturers,
   their suppliers, their employees, and consumers.

   The series of restrictions on appropriations ended with the enactment
   of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations
   Act for FY 2002 on December 18, 2001. Pub. L. 107- 87. The FY 2002
   Appropriations Act, unlike the appropriations acts for fiscal years
   1996-2001, does not prevent NHTSA from expending funds to prepare,
   propose or promulgate fuel economy standards. Accordingly, for the
   first time since 1995, NHTSA is authorized to expend funds to establish
   fuel economy standards for non-passenger automobiles at the maximum
   feasible average fuel economy level in accordance with ยง32902(a) of
   Chapter 329.

   The availability of these funds does not, as a practical matter,
   translate into an effective ability to conduct its customary level of
   analysis of potential MY 2004 light truck fuel economy standards. NHTSA
   cannot delay the beginning of rulemaking to establish the MY 2004
   standard to provide time for that analysis. As noted above, NHTSA must
   establish the fuel economy standard for a given model year at least 18
   months before that model year begins. In the case of MY 2004, this
   statutory deadline requires NHTSA to issue a fuel economy standard on
   or before April 1, 2002. As the agency was unable, from 1995 until
   mid-December 2001, to spend any funds for the collection and analysis
   of data relating to CAFE levels, it has not been able to lay the
   factual or analytical foundation necessary to develop a proposed
   standard other than one at 20.7 mpg, the level of the MY 1996 - 2003
   standards.

   II. Agency Proposal

   The agency is proposing to establish the MY 2004 fuel economy standard
   for all light trucks manufactured by a manufacturer at 20.7 mpg, the
   same level previously adopted for MY 2003. The agency's proposal
   reflects the absence of any current information or analysis regarding
   the impact of any change in CAFE standards and the capabilities of
   manufacturers.

   The agency is inviting comments, however, on the maximum feasible level
   of average fuel economy, including comments as to whether motor vehicle
   manufacturers can, with the limited leadtime available and product
   plans essentially established, achieve a level higher than 20.7 mpg in
   MY 2004. In establishing CAFE standards, NHTSA is commanded by
   ยง32902(f) to determine the maximum feasible average fuel economy after
   considering technological feasibility, economic practicability, the
   effect of other Government motor vehicle standards on fuel economy, and
   the need of the United States to conserve energy. NHTSA has
   traditionally performed the analysis required by ยง32902(f) through the
   publication of requests for information (similar to the one published
   concurrently with this notice) seeking data from manufacturers and
   other interested parties regarding technical capabilities, future
   product plans, anticipated model mix, impact of safety and emissions
   regulations, the economic impacts of changes in fuel economy standard,
   the need of the nation to conserve energy and other factors. Once these
   data are obtained, the agency traditionally assesses the accuracy of
   manufacturer projections, the likelihood that certain technical
   innovations may increase fuel efficiency, the potential impact of
   consumer demand on the composition of manufacturer fleets, the
   capability of different manufacturers to attain a minimum levels of
   fuel efficiency, and the effects of weight and other penalties imposed
   by changes in safety and emissions standards. While this process must
   be considerably compressed due to the limited time remaining for
   setting the MY 2004 standard, we will nonetheless consider all
   comments, including comments with data and analysis suggesting that a
   level higher or lower than 20.7 mpg.

   III. Impact Analyses
   A. Economic Impacts

   This proposal rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget
   under Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review. Although
   our proposed standard for MY 2004 does not differ from the fuel economy
   standards for the preceding model years, we are treating this rule as
   "economically significant" under Executive Order 12866 and "major"
   under the Congressional Review Act, 5 U.S.C. 801 et seq., as added by
   the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996. This
   proposal is also considered significant under the Department's
   regulatory policies and procedures.

   As noted above, the agency has been operating under a restriction on
   the use of appropriations for the last six fiscal years. The
   restriction has prevented the agency from gathering and analyzing data
   relating to fuel economy capabilities and the costs and benefits of
   improving the level of fuel economy. Particularly since that
   restriction was lifted only very recently, on December 18, 2001, the
   agency has been unable to prepare an economic analysis for this
   rulemaking.
   B. Environmental Impacts

   We have not conducted an evaluation of the impacts of this proposal
   under the National Environmental Policy Act. NHTSA is proposing to set
   the 2004 model year light truck CAFE standard at the same level as the
   standard applicable to the 1999 through 2003 model years. As this
   proposal maintains the fuel economy standard at the same level as prior
   years, it does not impose any environmental impacts. Accordingly, no
   environmental assessment is required.
   C. Energy Impacts

   NHTSA is not proposing to change the light truck CAFE standard for the
   2004 model year. Assuming that this proposal is adopted in a final
   rule, this action will not have "a significant adverse effect on the
   supply, distribution, or use of energy," as defined by Executive Order
   13211, Actions Concerning Regulations That Significantly Affect Energy
   Supply, Distribution, or Use. At this point, therefore, this action is
   not a "significant energy action" under Executive Order 13211 and no
   "Statement of Energy Effects" is required.
   D. Impacts on Small Entities

   Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the agency has considered
   the impact this rulemaking would have on small entities. I certify that
   this action would not have a significant economic impact on a
   substantial number of small entities. Therefore, a regulatory
   flexibility analysis is not required for this action. Few, if any,
   light truck manufacturers subject to the proposed rule would be
   classified as a "small business" under the Regulatory Flexibility Act.

   The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-354) requires
   each agency to evaluate the potential effects of a rule on small
   businesses. Establishment of a fuel economy standard for light trucks
   affects motor vehicle manufacturers, few of which are small entities.
   The Small Business Administration (SBA) has set size standards for
   determining if a business within a specific industrial classification
   is a small business. The Standard Industrial Classification code used
   by the SBA for Motor Vehicles and Passenger Car Bodies (3711) defines a
   small manufacturer as one having 1,000 employees or fewer.

   Very few single stage manufacturers of motor vehicles within the United
   States have 1,000 or fewer employees. Those that do are not likely to
   have sufficient resources to design, develop, produce and market a
   light truck. For this reason, we certify that this proposal regarding
   the corporate average fuel economy of light trucks would not have a
   significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
   E. Federalism

   E.O. 13132 requires NHTSA to develop an accountable process to ensure
   "meaningful and timely input by State and local officials in the
   development of regulatory policies that have federalism implications."
   E.O. 13132 defines the term "Policies that have federalism
   implications" to include regulations that have "substantial direct
   effects on the States, on the relationship between the national
   government and the States, or on the distribution of power and
   responsibilities among the various levels of government." Under E.O.
   13132, NHTSA may not issue a regulation that has federalism
   implication, that imposes substantial direct compliance costs, and that
   is not required by statute, unless the Federal government provides the
   funds necessary to pay the direct compliance costs incurred by State
   and local governments, or NHTSA consults with State and local officials
   early in the process of developing the proposed regulation.

   This proposal would not have substantial direct effects on the States,
   on the relationship between the national government and the States, or
   on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various
   levels of government as specified in E.O. 13132. Thus, the requirements
   of section 6 of the Executive Order do not apply to this proposal.
   F. The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act

   The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-4) requires
   agencies to prepare a written assessment of the costs, benefits and
   other effects of proposed or final rules that include a Federal mandate
   likely to result in the expenditure by State, local or tribal
   governments, in the aggregate, or by the private sector, of more than
   $100 million annually. For the same reasons discussed in the section
   above on economic impacts, the agency has been unable to prepare an
   assessment.
   G. Paperwork Reduction Act

   There are no information collection requirements in this proposal.
   H. Regulation Identifier Number (RIN)

   The Department of Transportation assigns a regulation identifier number
   (RIN) to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal
   Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the
   Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. You may use the RIN
   contained in the heading at the beginning of this document to find this
   action in the Unified Agenda.
   I. Plain Language

   Executive Order 12866 and the President's memorandum of June 1, 1998,
   require each agency to write all rules in plain language. Application
   of the principles of plain language includes consideration of the
   following questions:
     * Have we organized the material to suit the public's needs?
     * Are the requirements in the proposal clearly stated?
     * Does the proposal contain technical language or jargon that is not
       clear?
     * Would a different format (grouping and order of sections, use of
       headings, paragraphing) make the rule easier to understand?
     * Would more (but shorter) sections be better?
     * Could we improve clarity by adding tables, lists, or diagrams?
     * What else could we do to make the proposal easier to understand?

   If you have any responses to these questions, please forward them to
   Otto Matheke, Office of Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety
   Administration, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20590.

   J. Executive Order 13045

   Executive Order 13045 (62 FR 19885, April 23, 1997) applies to any rule
   that: (1) is determined to be economically significant as defined under
   E.O. 12866, and (2) concerns an environmental, health or safety risk
   that NHTSA has reason to believe may have a disproportionate effect on
   children. If the regulatory action meets both criteria, we must
   evaluate the environmental health or safety effects of the planned rule
   on children, and explain why the planned regulation is preferable to
   other potentially effective and reasonably feasible alternatives
   considered by us.

   This rulemaking does not have a disproportionate effect on children.
   The primary effect of this rulemaking is to conserve energy resources
   by setting a fuel economy standard for light trucks.
   K. National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act

   Section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act
   (NTTAA) requires NHTSA to evaluate and use existing voluntary consensus
   standards^ (1) in its regulatory activities unless doing so would be
   inconsistent with applicable law (e.g., the statutory provisions
   regarding NHTSA's vehicle safety authority) or otherwise impractical.
   In meeting that requirement, we are required to consult with voluntary,
   private sector, consensus standards bodies. Examples of organizations
   generally regarded as voluntary consensus standards bodies include the
   American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), the Society of
   Automotive Engineers (SAE), and the American National Standards
   Institute (ANSI). If NHTSA does not use available and potentially
   applicable voluntary consensus standards, we are required by the Act to
   provide Congress, through OMB, an explanation of the reasons for not
   using such standards.

   We are not aware of any available and potentially applicable voluntary
   consensus standards, i.e., ones regarding the maximum feasible level of
   corporate average fuel economy for MY 2004 light trucks. Therefore,
   this proposal is not based on any voluntary consensus standards.
   L. Department of Energy Review

   In accordance with 49 U.S.C. ยง32902(j), we submitted this proposal to
   the Department of Energy for review. That Department did not make any
   comments that we have not responded to.

   IV. Comments

   Submission of Comments

   How Can I Influence NHTSA's Thinking on This Proposed Rule?

   In developing our rules, we try to address the concerns of all our
   stakeholders. Your comments will help us improve this rule. We invite
   you to provide views on our proposal, new data, a discussion of the
   effects of this proposal on you, or other relevant information. We
   welcome your views on all aspects of this proposed rule. Your comments
   will be most effective if you follow the suggestions below:
     * Explain your views and reasoning as clearly as possible.
     * Provide solid technical and cost data to support your views.
     * If you estimate potential costs, explain how you arrived at the
       estimate.
     * Provide specific examples to illustrate your concerns.
     * Offer specific alternatives.
     * Be sure to include the name, date, and docket number with your
       comments.

   How do I prepare and submit comments?

   Your comments must be written and in English. To ensure that your
   comments are correctly filed in the Docket, please include the docket
   number of this document in your comments.

   Your comments must not be more than 15 pages long. (49 CFR 553.21). We
   established this limit to encourage you to write your primary comments
   in a concise fashion. However, you may attach necessary additional
   documents to your comments. There is no limit on the length of the
   attachments.

   Please submit two copies of your comments, including the attachments,
   to Docket Management at the address given above under ADDRESS.

   Comments may also be submitted to the docket electronically by logging
   onto the Dockets Management System website at http://dms.dot.gov. Click
   on "Help & Information" or "Help/Info" to obtain instructions for
   filing the document electronically.

   How can I be sure that my comments were received?

   If you wish Docket Management to notify you upon its receipt of your
   comments, enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope
   containing your comments. Upon receiving your comments, Docket
   Management will return the postcard by mail.

   How do I submit confidential business information?

   If you wish to submit any information under a claim of confidentiality,
   you should submit three copies of your complete submission, including
   the information you claim to be confidential business information, to
   the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the address given above under FOR FURTHER
   INFORMATION CONTACT. In addition, you should submit two copies, from
   which you have deleted the claimed confidential business information,
   to Docket Management at the address given above under ADDRESS. When you
   send a comment containing information claimed to be confidential
   business information, you should include a cover letter setting forth
   the information specified in our confidential business information
   regulation. (49 CFR Part 512.)

   Will the agency consider late comments?

   We will consider all comments that Docket Management receives before
   the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above under
   DATES. To the extent possible, we will also consider comments that
   Docket Management receives after that date. If Docket Management
   receives a comment too late for us to consider it in developing a final
   rule (assuming that one is issued), we will consider that comment as an
   informal suggestion for future rulemaking action.

   How can I read the comments submitted by other people?

   You may read the comments received by Docket Management at the address
   given above under ADDRESS. The hours of the Docket are indicated above
   in the same location.

   You may also see the comments on the Internet. To read the comments on
   the Internet, take the following steps:
    1. Go to the Docket Management System (DMS) Web page of the Department
       of Transportation (http://dms.dot.gov/).
    2. On that page, click on "search."
    3. On the next page (http://dms.dot.gov/search/), type in the
       four-digit docket number shown at the beginning of this document.
       Example: If the docket number were "NHTSA-1998-1234," you would
       type "1234". After typing the docket number, click on "search".
    4. On the next page, which contains docket summary information for the
       docket you selected, click on the desired comments. You may
       download the comments. The "pdf" versions of the documents are word
       searchable.

   Please note that even after the comment closing date, we will continue
   to file relevant information in the Docket as it becomes available.
   Further, some people may submit late comments. Accordingly, we
   recommend that you periodically check the Docket for new material.

   Plain Language

   Executive Order 12866 and the President's memorandum of June 1, 1998,
   require each agency to write all rules in plain language. Application
   of the principles of plain language includes consideration of the
   following questions:
     * Have we organized the material to suit the public's needs?
     * Are the requirements in the rule clearly stated?
     * Does the rule contain technical language or jargon that is not
       clear?
     * Would a different format (grouping and order of sections, use of
       headings, paragraphing) make the rule easier to understand?
     * Would more (but shorter) sections be better?
     * Could we improve clarity by adding tables, lists, or diagrams?
     * What else could we do to make the rule easier to understand?

   If you have any responses to these questions, please include them in
   your comments on this proposal.

   V. Conclusion

   Based on the foregoing, we are proposing to establish the combined
   average fuel economy standard for non-passenger automobiles (light
   trucks) for MY 2004 at 20.7 mpg.

   List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 533

   Energy conservation, Fuel economy, Motor vehicles.

   PART 533 -- [AMENDED]

   In consideration of the foregoing, 49 CFR Part 533 is amended as
   follows:

   1. The authority citation for part 533 continues to read as follows:

   Authority: 49 U.S.C. 32902; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50.

   2. 533.5 is amended by revising Table IV in paragraph (a) to read as
   follows:

   533.5 Requirements.

   (a) * * *

   (b) Table IV

                             Model Year Standard
                             1996       20.7
                             1997       20.7
                             1998       20.7
                             1999       20.7
                             2000       20.7
                             2001       20.7
                             2002       20.7
                             2003       20.7
                             2004       20.7

    * * * * *

                                          Issued on:
                                          ______________________
                                          Stephen R. Kratzke
                                          Associate Administrator
                                          for Safety Performance Standards

   Billing Code 4910-59P

   (Signature page for RIN 2127-AI68)(NPRM)

   ^1 Voluntary consensus standards are technical standards developed or
   adopted by voluntary consensus standards bodies. Technical standards
   are defined by the NTTAA as "performance-based or design-specific
   technical specifications and related management systems practices."
   They pertain to "products and processes, such as size, strength, or
   technical performance of a product, process or material."
