http://quantum-computing.lanl.gov/confsem.html

                Schrodinger Cat List of Conferences and Seminars
     __________________________________________________________________



Seminars at Los Alamos on Quantum Computation

     * Friday September 13th at 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Fault tolerant quantum computing
       Andrew Steane; Oxford University
       Abstract: I will address the question: Can a quantum computer be
       made to work? It is well known that any system allowing
       sufficiently large entanglement to be useful for quantum computing
       is extremely sensitive to noise (especially decoherence). At first
       it seemed that this problem would be essentially insurmountable,
       but the concept of quantum error correction has given some hope
       that such sensitive quantum systems can be stabilised after all.
       However, must error correction itself assume noise-free computing
       during the correction process, or can it work even when the
       corrector is noisy? I will discuss this question and give some
       recent results which are very promising in this regard.
     * Friday November 1st at 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Introduction to Quantum Error Correction
       Raymond Laflamme; T-6
       Abstract: This will be the first of a series of seminars on error
       correction for quantum computation/cryptography. I will give an
       introduction to the subject and it should be understandable by most
       poeple knowing quantum mechanics. I will give an example of the
       simplest quantum error correction; the 3bit code correcting for
       decoherence. I will then generalise to the most general 1 bit error
       and give example of codes which correct these errors.
     * Thursday 7th November, 3:45 pm, Physics Auditorium
       Putting Weirdness to Work: The Promise of Quantum Computation
       John Preskill; Caltech
       "Information" is something that can be encoded in the state of a
       physical system, and a "computation" is atask that can be performed
       with a physically realizable device. Therefore, since the physical
       world is fundamentally quantum mechanical, the foundations of
       information theory and computer science should be sought in quantum
       physics. In fact, quantum information has weird properties that
       contrast sharply with the familiar properties of "classical"
       information. A quantum computer -- a new type of machine that
       exploits the quantum properties of information -- could perform
       certain types of calculations far more efficiently than any
       foreseeable classical computer. To build a functional quantum
       computer will be an enormous technical challenge. As a first step,
       new methods for "quantum error correction" are being developed that
       can help to prevent a quantum computer from crashing.
     * Friday 8th November, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Reliable Quantum Computation
       John Preskill; Caltech
       John Preskill will talk about how reliable computations can be done
       with a quantum computer with imperfect components.
     * Friday 15th November, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Overview of Theoretical Research in Quantum Computation
       Jim Anglin, Manny Knill, Raymond Laflamme and Wocjcieh Zurek
     * Wednesday 20th November, 2:30 pm, New Theory Building Conference
       Room 524
       A general theory of decoherence
       R. Omnes, Universite de Paris Sud (Orsay)
     * Friday 5th December, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Capacity of a noisy quantum channel
       Chris Adami; Caltech
       Abstract: I analyze a quantum channel for information transmission
       and storage within quantum information theory. In analogy to
       classical channels, I propose to define the quantum channel
       capacity as the maximum rate of *mutual entanglement* processed by
       the channel (for the transmission and storage of quantum
       entanglement), which reduces to the maximum mutual information
       processed by the channel for the transmission of classical data.
       The mutual entanglement and the capacity are calculated explicitly
       for the quantum ``depolarizing'' channel.
     * Friday 13th December, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Decoherence and the Physics of Information
       Wojciech Zurek, T6
     * Wednesday 8th January, 11:00 am, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum Control Theory
       Seth Lloyd; MIT
     * Friday 10th January, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Estimate on the threshold for the quantum-gate precision for being
       able to carry out arbitrarily large quantum computations
       Chris Zalka; T6
       Abstract: I will discuss: 1)fault tolerant quantum error correction
       a la Shor (quant-ph/9605011) 2)iterated encoding (concatenated
       codes) to achieve arbitrary precision (quant-ph/9610011) 3)general
       error patterns and justification for simplyfied error models
     * Friday 31st January, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       MacWilliams Identities for Quantum Error Correcting Codes
       Raymond Laflamme; T6
       I will describe recent work I have done with Peter Shor on the
       relationship between two different notions of fidelity
       (entanglement fidelity and average fidelity) for a completely
       depolarizing quantum channel. This relationship gives rise to a
       quantum analog of the MacWilliams identities in classical coding
       theory. These identities relate the weight enumerator of a code to
       the one of its dual and, with linear programming techniques,
       provided a powerful tool to investigate the possible existence of
       codes. The same techniques can be adapted to the quantum case. I
       will give a simple example of their power by showing that no
       degenerate 5-bit quantum code exists.
     * Friday 14th of February, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum Error Correction and Orthogonal Geometry
       Robert Calderbank, AT&T
       A group theoretic framework is introduced that simplifies the
       description of known quantum error-correcting codes and greatly
       facilitates the construction of new examples. The problem of
       finding quantum-error-correcting codes is transformed into the
       problem of finding additive codes over the field $GF(4)$ which are
       self-orthogonal with respect to a certain trace inner product. Many
       new codes and new bounds are presented, as well as a table of upper
       and lower bounds on such codes of length up to 30 qubits.
     * Friday 21st of February, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Upper bounds on quantum codes: quantum weight enumerators
       Eric Rains AT&T
       One of the fundamental problems in the theory of quantum error
       correcting codes is that of finding good upper bounds on the
       minimum distance of a code of specified length and dimension. In
       classical coding theory, one of the most powerful tools for
       producing bounds is the linear-programming method, which uses
       linear relations between the weight enumerator of a code and a dual
       to find a contradiction. Thus, to adapt this method to quantum
       codes, we need analogues of these weight enumerators; such
       analogues are given by the quantum weight enumerators of Shor and
       Laflamme. I will explain these enumerators, as well as the "quantum
       shadow enumerator", and show how one can use them to produce
       bounds.
     * Friday 28th of February, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum Computation with an ion trap
       Rainer Blatt, Innsbruck
     * Friday March 14th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Error Correction and Fault-Tolerance in Quantum Computation
       Daniel Gottesman; Caltech
       I will describe the class of stabilizer codes, a subclass of
       quantum error-correcting codes with a straightforward
       group-theoretic structure. This structure enables us to understand
       fault-tolerant operations on such codes as symmetries of the
       stabilizer. I will discuss how this allows us to preform universal
       quantum computation with any stabilizer code.
     * Friday March 21th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum information transmission through noisy channels
       Michael Nielsen; University of New Mexico
       What is the greatest rate at which information can be sent through
       a noisy quantum channel? This is a problem whose solution is only
       partially understood. I will outline what is known, including
       several upper bounds on the rate of information transmsission, and
       some of the peculiarly "quantum" features of the noisy channel
       problem.
     * Thursday March 27th, 1:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum information transmission through noisy channels; Part 2
       Howard Barnum; University of New Mexico
       What is the greatest rate at which information can be sent through
       a noisy quantum channel? This is a problem whose solution is only
       partially understood. I will outline what is known, including
       several upper bounds on the rate of information transmsission, and
       some of the peculiarly "quantum" features of the noisy channel
       problem.
     * Friday March 28th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Efficient simulation of quantum systems by quantum computers.
       Chris Zalka; University of New Mexico
       The (possibly discretized) wavefunction of a quantum system can be
       "stored" on a quantum computer by the QC's amplitudes (e.g.
       amplitudes of the "classical" basis states). Discretization can be
       made very fine as the number of amplitudes of a QC grows
       exponentially with the number of qubits. Clearly the necessary size
       of the QC is only proportional to the number of simulated quantum
       mechanical particles. Quantum fields would have to be spatially
       discretized like in lattice QCD. I have figured out a way to
       time-evolve the "stored" state vector on the QC using the Fast
       Fourier Transformation (FFT). The readout problem: Of course we
       cannot read out individual QC amplitudes, rather we are restricted
       to QT-type measurements, analogous to dealing with the original
       physical system. However in the QC simulation we are in a better
       position, as we can do all kinds of (possibly unphysical) unitary
       manipulations before observing the QC. This e.g. allows us to
       "measure" observables (hermitian operators) which we couldn't
       observe "in vivo". papers: my newest version is available at:
       http://qso.lanl.gov/~zalka/ (3. item) Stephen Wiesners paper is
       short and quite readable: quant-ph/9603028
     * Monday April 7th, 3:30 pm, CNLS Conference Room
       What is needed to build a quantum computer?
       David DiVincenzo, IBM
       I have boiled down the requirements for physical realization of a
       quantum computer to five items: 1) Hilbert space control; 2)
       quantum state cooling; 3) isolation from environment; 4) controlled
       time evolution; 5) strong quantum measurement. I will explain what
       each of these items means with some concrete examples from solid
       state and atomic physics, along with giving a very quick refresher
       course on what a quantum computer is and why we want one.
     * Friday, April 25th, 12.30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Fault-tolerant quantum computation by anyons.
       A. Kitaev, Landau Institute
       I propose a class of stabilizer quantum codes associated with
       lattices on the torus and other 2-D surfaces. Qubits live on the
       edges of the lattice whereas the stabilizer operators correspond to
       the vertices and the faces. These operators can be put together to
       make up a Hamiltonian with local interaction. (This is a kind of
       penalty function; violating each stabilizer condition costs
       energy). The ground state of this Hamiltonian coincides with the
       protected space of the code. It is $4^g$-degenerate, where $g$ is
       the genus of the surface. The degeneracy is persistant to local
       perturbation. Under small enough perturbation, the splitting of the
       ground state is estimated as $\exp(-aL)$, where $L$ is the smallest
       dimension of the lattice. This model may be considered as a quantum
       memory, where stability is attained at the physical level rather
       than by an explicit error correction procedure. Excitations in this
       model are anyons, meaning that the global wavefunction acquires
       some phase factor when one excitation moves around the other. One
       can operate on the ground state space by creating an exitation
       pair, moving one of the exitations around the torus, and
       annihilating with the second one. Unfortunately, such operations do
       not form a complete basis. It seems this problem can be removed in
       a more general model (or models) where the Hilbert space of a qubit
       have dimensionality $>2$. This model is related to Hopf algebras.
       In the new model, we don't need torus to have degeneracy. An
       $n$-particle excited state on the plane is already degenerate,
       unless the particles (excitations) come close to each other. These
       particles are nonabelian anyons, i.e. the degenerate state
       undergoes a nontrivial unitary transformation when one particle
       moves around the other. Such motion ("briading") can be considered
       as fault-tolerant quantum computation. A measurement of the final
       state can be performed by joining the particles in pairs and
       observing the result of fusion.
     * Friday, May 2nd, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum Trajectory Simulations of Error Correction.
       Todd Brun; ITP, UCSB
       Quantum trajectory techniques enable one to replace a Markovian
       master equation with a stochastic differential equation for a
       single quantum state in Hilbert space; as such, they are useful as
       quantum Monte Carlo techniques. The advantages and disadvantages of
       quantum trajectory simulations for quantum error correction are
       discussed, along with the results of simulations for simple and
       fault-tolerant correction algorithms, and the object-oriented code
       used to generate the results.
     * Friday, May 9th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       NMR Quantum Computing at Los Alamos: Theory and Experiment.
       Manny Knill (CIC-3)
       The fundamental ideas for using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance in bulk
       quantum computation will be introduced. The main difference between
       bulk quantum computation and the usual paradigm is that it uses an
       incoherent sum of quantum computers which cannot be accessed
       individually, both in the state preparation and in the readout
       process. For the purposes of solving computational problems, bulk
       quantum computation is as powerful as the traditional model. An
       important step in establishing this fact involves transforming a
       mixed input state into an effective pure state suitable for
       manipulation by a traditional quantum algorithm. I will describe a
       simple randomization method based on certain permutations to
       isolate the desired pure states components of the initial mixed
       state. Recent experimental results obtained here in Los Alamos will
       also be discussed. A small quantum circuit to produce a quantum
       entanglement was implemented in chloroform (CHCl_3) to demonstrate
       the non-classical behavior of NMR. An overview of future plans will
       be given.
     * Friday, May 16th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Quantum Computation.
       Richard Feynman
       Video recording of a seminar that Richard Feynman gave at AT&T in
       1985 on quantum computation.
     * Friday, May 23th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Ion Trap Quantum Computers: what are the prospects for scaling them
       up to do "large" calculations?
       Daniel James (T-4)
       I will discuss the latest ideas about doing quantum computing with
       trapped ions, and discuss what are the ultimate fundamental
       limitations on the technology.
     * Friday, May 30th, 12:30 pm, T-Division Conference Room
       Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy: An Experimentally
       Accessible Paradigm for Quantum Computing
       Timothy F. Havel (Harvard)
       We describe a new physical mechanism that is capable of
       computation, along with experimental results which demonstrate its
       potential. The mechanism is Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
       Spectroscopy, or NMR. This approach is based on the fact that the
       spin 1/2 nuclei of each molecule in a liquid sample are largely
       isolated from the spins in all the other molecules. This makes it
       possible to describe the state of the sample by a reduced density
       matrix of size 2^n, where n is the number of spins in one molecule,
       rather than 2^N where N ~ 10^23 is the total number of spins in the
       sample. It also effectively makes each molecule into an independent
       quantum computer, with a decoherence time on the order of seconds.
       We call a computer based on these principles an Ensemble Quantum
       Computer, or EQC. In this talk we present experimental results
       which show how this approach enables us to easily implement the
       usual controlled-NOT or quantum XOR gate on single states as well
       as on "coherent superpositions". We also show how standard
       techniques in experimental NMR spectroscopy enable us to implement
       the universal Toffoli gate. Scaling these experiments to molecules
       with as many as ten inequivalent spins in them is straightforward.
       A variety of experimental difficulties, in particular the limited
       signal-to-noise of the receivers used to collect NMR spectra, make
       scaling much past ten spins challenging. Nevertheless, the
       availability of this exper- imentally accessible paradigm for
       quantum computing should be of considerable utility in further
       developing the theory and algor- ithms that will be needed to solve
       significant problems by either quantum computing, or by ensemble
       quantum computing.



Worldwide Conferences on Quantum Computation

     * PhysComp96
     * Quantum Coherence and Decoherence, Santa-Barbara, Dec 15-18
     * 26th Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics,
       Snowbird, Utah, January 12-15, 1997
     * American Association for the Advancement of Science Quantum
       Computation session, Monday 17 February, 9:30am-12:30pm;
     * Photonoc Quantum Computing, Orlando, Florida, 20-25 April 1997;
     * Quantum Computing Tutorial and Workshop, Princeton University,
       Princeton, August 11-15, 1997;


    Back to QCC home page.
