http://sflwww.er.usgs.gov/results.html

   USGS
   South Florida Information Access





   SOFIA home


   Searching for something?
   __________ Go
   Site Map
   Help


   Projects
   by Title
   by Investigator
   by Region
   by Topic
   by Program


   Products
   Publications
   > Results
   Synthesis


   Information
   Personnel
   About SOFIA
   Education
   Upcoming Events


   Data
   Database
   Data Exchange
   Metadata
   projects > results

                   South Florida Restoration Science Forum

                            Held May 17-19, 1999

   The South Florida Restoration Science Forum website highlights the
   powerful connection between science and management decisions in
   restoration efforts. You can see first-hand how the public's investment
   in science is paying off in support of better management decisions and
   restoration of imperiled south Florida Ecosystems - including the South
   Florida Restoration Science Forum internationally recognized, globally
   significant Everglades. The Forum affords a unique opportunity for
   everyone to see highlights of the most significant restoration science
   and management efforts underway. Hundreds of scientists from numerous
   organizations have prepared over five hundred posters and exhibits to
   show you the strength of the science that is done to have science-based
   decisions in managing the restoration effort. The forum is being held
   by the Working Group of the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task
   Force whoses member organizations are responsible for the multi billion
   dollar restoration projects in south Florida. Learn more...

  photo of scientist collecting a water sample USGS Water Quality Workshop

                          Held October 23-24, 2000
                             West Palm Beach, FL

   The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) held an informational workshop on
   water quality investigations conducted under the USGS South Florida
   Ecosystem Program. Eleven principal investigators presented the results
   of their projects. Learn more ....

             Greater Everglades Ecosystem Restoration Conference

                          Held December 11-15, 2000

   image of the GEER conference logo The purpose of the GEER conference
   was to provide a forum for physical, biological, and social scientists
   to share their knowledge and research results concerning Everglades
   restoration. The objectives of the conference was to define specific
   restoration goals, determine the best approaches to meet these goals,
   and provide benchmarks that could be used to measure the success of
   restoration efforts over time. To these ends, the conference recognized
   the need to synthesize information gathered since the first Everglades
   conference, the interdisciplinary nature of Everglades restoration, and
   the need to adapt scientific understanding to management action. Learn
   more...

Other Results:

     * Circulars
     * Fact Sheets
     * Open File Reports
     * Papers
     * Posters
     * Reports
     * Water Resource Invesitations
     * Synthesis Projects

   U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, Center for
   Coastal Geology
   This page is: http://sofia.usgs.gov /results.html
   Comments and suggestions? Contact: Heather Henkel - Webmaster
   Last updated: 05 November, 2001 @ 04:50 PM (HSH)
