http://wwwnwql.cr.usgs.gov/Public/pubs/PE_Fact/text.html

   [pe-banner.jpg]
   [survey.gif]

  INTRODUCTION

   Performance-evaluation studies provide customers of the U.S. Geological
   Survey National Water Quality Laboratory (NWQL) with data needed to
   evaluate performance and to compare or select laboratories for
   analytical work. The NWQL participates in national and international
   performance-evaluation (PE) studies that consist of samples of water,
   sediment, and aquatic biological materials for the analysis of
   inorganic constituents, organic compounds, and radionuclides. These
   studies are administered by the following organizations:

     * U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
     * U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Branch of Quality Systems (BQS)
     * National Research Council of Canada
     * National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)

   To carry out the analytical work, the NWQL employs about 150 chemists,
   biologists, technicians, and support personnel, plus some 30 contract
   employees, at a laboratory near Denver. The staff determines physical
   properties, major ions, nutrients, trace metals, pesticides, volatile
   organic compounds, industrial organic compounds, explosives, and
   radionuclides, in addition to identifying and enumerating species of
   algae and invertebrates.

   This Fact Sheet provides a summary of PE study results from January
   1993 through April 1997. It should be of particular interest to USGS
   customers and potential customers of the NWQL, water-quality
   specialists, cooperators, and agencies of the Federal Government. In
   addition, individual PE study results are routinely provided to USGS
   customers and are frequently posted to the NWQL Website at
   wwwnwql.cr.usgs.gov/USGS.

   Statistical techniques used to calculate acceptance limits vary among
   studies and are often changed throughout the course of a study. Since
   this Fact Sheet presents data from multiple PE studies over a period of
   several years, it would be impractical to define the acceptance limit
   calculations used for each study. Instead, the authors have summarized
   the NWQL results based on definitions provided by the study
   administrators.

  INORGANIC ANALYSIS

    Water Samples

   The Laboratory participates in the USEPA water-supply (WS) and
   water-pollution (WP) performance-evaluation studies. These national
   studies are conducted twice annually. The WS study is used to maintain
   certification for the determination of drinking-water constituents. The
   WP study assesses laboratory performance for measuring concentrations
   of constituents greater than those found in WS studies.

   The Laboratory analyzes about 30 constituents for the WS study and
   about 70 constituents for the WP study. As indicated in figure 1, the
   NWQL has had a high rate of successful determinations for the analysis
   of WS and WP samples according to predefined study acceptance criteria.
   This consistent performance is especially significant in light of
   changes in analytical techniques from 1993 to 1997. For the July 1996
   and subsequent WS studies, the NWQL used analytical methods that meet
   the requirements of the USEPA's drinking-water regulations. Study dates
   accompanied by an asterisk indicate the use of these analytical methods
   (fig. 1). In addition, the NWQL undergoes an in-depth on-site review
   every 3 years to maintain Drinking-Water Certification, although this
   review is not part of the PE studies.

   [1inch.gif] [fig1s.gif]

   BQS administers a national standard reference program to evaluate over
   200 participating laboratories. The results of these evaluations are
   published by USGS (Long and Farrar, 1993, 1994a, 1994b, 1995a, 1995b,
   1996, 1997a, 1997b). Participating laboratories are first evaluated for
   each constituent analyzed. The constituent rating scale is from 0 to 4,
   with 0 being poor and 4 excellent. This rating scale is related to the
   z-value, which indicates statistically how far away the reported value
   is from the sample mean. As shown in equation 1, the z-value is the
   difference of the expected concentration from the NWQL reported
   concentration relative to the standard deviation for the constituents
   in the study:

   [equation.gif]

   Overall laboratory ratings are then calculated by averaging the
   individual constituent ratings. The NWQL has consistently received
   overall ratings of 3 and above and has analyzed a high percentage of
   the selected constituents from 1993 to 1997 (fig. 2).

   [1inch.gif] [fig2s.gif]

   The NWQL also participates in the National Water Research Institute
   study administered by the National Research Council of Canada. This
   study--a combination of the former Federal Provincial Great Lakes
   Action Plan and the Long Range Transport of Atmospheric Pollutants
   studies--is conducted twice a year. The focus of the National Water
   Research Institute study is the analysis of major ions, nutrients,
   total phosphorous, and trace elements in water. For the last four
   studies, which were administered in 1995 and 1996, the NWQL reported an
   average of 37 constituents per study. The NWQL has been rated as
   satisfactory ("quite acceptable") or above for 74 percent of the
   analyses. The remaining 26 percent showed either a slightly high or
   slightly low bias as defined by the Canadian study.

    Biological Tissues

   NWQL methods for determining inorganic constituents in biological
   tissue are evaluated by participation in the intercomparison study for
   trace metals. The study is administered annually by the National
   Research Council of Canada for NOAA. The participating laboratories
   analyze a certified reference material in addition to the unknown
   tissue sample and perform five replicate analyses of each material.
   From 1993 through 1996, 76 percent of the constituents analyzed by the
   NWQL have been within study acceptance limits. In general, for those
   constituents that have been outside acceptance limits, the recoveries
   have been low. This apparent low bias might be due, in part, to the
   less rigorous digestion procedure developed and used by the NWQL
   (Hoffman, 1996). Recoveries for the NOAA studies from 1993 through 1996
   are shown in figure 3. There are fewer PE studies to evaluate inorganic
   method performance for the analysis of biological tissues than there
   are available for other less complex sample types. For this reason, the
   NWQL routinely analyzes a certified reference material with each batch
   of environmental samples. Much of this information has been summarized
   and can be obtained by contacting the Chief, Quality Management
   Program, at the NWQL.

   [1inch.gif] [fig3s.gif]

    Sediment Samples

   Sediment materials analyzed for inorganic constituents are sent to the
   Geologic Division laboratory, which participates in several national
   and international PE studies. Information may be obtained by contacting
   the Chief, Minerals Resource Program, Geologic Division, U.S.
   Geological Survey, at the Denver Federal Center.

  ORGANIC ANALYSIS

   Performance-evaluation studies for organic compounds in samples are
   more difficult to administer than those for inorganic constituents.
   Organic compounds may be degraded by many mechanisms, including heat,
   light, and microorganisms. Because many of the compounds are unstable,
   special measures must be taken to ensure that PE studies evaluate
   method performance and are not biased by natural compound degradation.
   These measures include chilling samples and protecting them from heat
   and light. Along with the high cost for organic analyses, these special
   measures make national PE studies expensive.

    Water Samples

   The NWQL participates in several nationally and internationally
   recognized programs, including the USEPA water-supply (WS) and
   water-pollution (WP) studies, which are administered biannually. The WS
   study allows the NWQL to maintain certification for the analysis of
   drinking-water compounds. Along with this evaluation, the NWQL must
   pass a rigorous laboratory review every 3 years. The WP study assesses
   laboratory performance for measuring high concentrations of organic
   compounds that might be found at a contaminated site.

   Results of NWQL organic determinations for WS and WP studies from 1993
   to 1997 are shown in figure 4. The NWQL analyzes an average of 60
   compounds as part of each of these studies. The September 1996 data
   point (fig. 4) indicates an anomalous result because some analytical
   instruments were inoperable during the study. The percentage of
   successful determinations has been extremely high for these studies.
   Since July 1996, the NWQL has adopted USEPA's drinking-water analytical
   methods for WS studies. Study dates accompanied by an asterisk indicate
   results obtained by use of the drinking-water analytical methods (fig.
   4).

   [1inch.gif] [fig4s.gif]

   The NWQL also analyzes samples submitted from the National Water
   Research Institute of Canada. This internationally recognized study is
   aimed at determining only one specific organic compound: dissolved
   organic carbon. The study is administered twice annually. In the last
   four studies, for samples submitted from 1995 through 1997, the NWQL
   consistently received ratings of satisfactory or above.

   To supplement the limited availability of national PE studies, the NWQL
   has implemented an in-house blind-sample program to routinely evaluate
   the broad range of organic compounds. As part of this internal program,
   blind samples are submitted for about two-thirds of all water-matrix
   analytical methods performed by the NWQL Organic Chemistry Program.
   Sample submission constitutes about 3 percent of the environmental
   sample load. The blind-sample program is designed to collect bias and
   variability information across the calibration range for all organic
   methods and to provide this information to NWQL customers.

   Results from this program are too numerous to display or discuss in
   this Fact Sheet. Blind-sample data summaries may be obtained by
   contacting the Chief, Quality Management Program, at the NWQL.

    Sediment and Tissue Samples

   Although primarily a water-analysis laboratory, the NWQL has developed
   expertise for the determination of organic compounds in sediment and
   tissue. Several methods that cover a variety of compound classes are
   available. The range includes methods for the determination of
   organochlorine and organophosphorous compounds, volatile and
   semivolatile compounds, and gross organic determinations, such as total
   carbon.

   Quality assurance for these methods is a high priority at the NWQL.
   Both sediment and tissue methods are monitored in the NOAA
   Intercomparison Evaluation for Organics in Biological Tissue and Marine
   Sediment study. Performance-evaluation samples for this study are
   distributed annually by the National Institute for Standards and
   Technology.

   NWQL performance (z-value results) for the most recent NOAA studies for
   organochlorine compounds in marine sediment samples is shown in figure
   5. Control limits were not defined as part of these studies.
   Frequently, a control limit is set at three times the standard
   deviation of the expected value. If only normal random errors are
   present, then 99.7 percent of the values will fall within this limit
   (Friedman and Erdmann, 1982, p. 91). NWQL reported concentrations for
   these studies have all been less than 1.5 standard deviations from the
   mean, with the exception of hexachlorobenzene in the 1995 study, which
   appears anomalous when compared with other historical and on-line
   quality-control data.

   [1inch.gif] [fig5s.gif]

   In addition to the organochlorine compounds, the NWQL analyzed the
   marine sediment samples for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in
   the 1994 and 1995 studies. The compounds analyzed as part of these
   studies consist of 23 PAHs of which the NWQL determined 17. The NWQL is
   within 3 standard deviations of the study mean 94 percent of the time.
   Only two compounds exceeded 3 standard deviations in the 1994 study.

   Laboratory results for analyses of the NOAA biological tissue samples
   in two separate data sets for the 1993 study are shown in figure 6.
   During this study, fish homogenate and mussel tissue samples were
   provided to the participating laboratories (see 1993a and 1993b in fig.
   6). Some compounds that are charted along the x-axis of the graph in
   figure 6 were not present in samples from every study; as a result,
   fewer data points for these compounds are shown in the figure.

   [1inch.gif] [fig6s.gif]

   As previously discussed, the control limits for these studies were not
   provided to the NWQL. Z-values have been calculated for all reported
   compounds. The control limits were set at 3 standard deviations from
   the mean of samples from the NOAA study. All NWQL results for these
   studies from 1993 through 1996 have been within acceptance limits. [At
   the time this Fact Sheet was published, the 1997 NOAA study assessment
   was still underway.]

   Performance-evaluation studies for sediment and tissue methods,
   especially for organic compounds, can be difficult and costly to
   administer. For these reasons, several certified reference materials
   are routinely analyzed with each batch of environmental samples to
   ensure data quality. Reference material results may be obtained by
   contacting the Chief, Quality Management Program, at the NWQL.

  RADIOCHEMISTRY OF WATER

   The radiochemistry section of the NWQL participates five times a year
   in PE studies that are administered by USEPA and mandated by the Safe
   Drinking Water Act (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1994, p.
   658-700, 835-839). Gross alpha and beta are determined using standard
   USEPA methodology, and the NWQL is fully certified under the USEPA Safe
   Drinking Water Act. NWQL performance for determining these
   radionuclides from 1993 to 1997 is shown in figures 7 and 8. A z-value
   was calculated to represent these results because sample concentrations
   vary widely.

   [1inch.gif] [fig7s.gif]

   [1inch.gif] [fig8s.gif]

   Two different sample types are analyzed as part of the study--a
   cross-check sample and a mixed blind sample. Three times each year, the
   laboratory must successfully analyze a cross-check sample that contains
   one alpha emitter and one beta emitter. These samples serve as a
   quality-assurance check of method performance. The mixed blind sample
   is sent to the laboratory twice each year. Although generally prepared
   in reagent water, this sample type better reflects a naturally
   occurring environmental sample in that many radionuclides are present,
   which poses significant analytical challenges.

   Over the last 5 years, the results of NWQL analyses have been well
   within the strict USEPA study control limits 94 percent of the time,
   even though mean radionuclide activities for the study have varied by
   almost a factor of 50. In fact, 93 percent of the NWQL results are
   within 2 standard deviations from the mean, indicating excellent method
   performance.

   The NWQL has also taken part in the USEPA performance-evaluation
   studies for uranium since September 1994. In August 1997, USEPA
   approved the method that NWQL is using for determining uranium, and the
   laboratory is now fully certified for this radionuclide. Although not
   shown in this Fact Sheet, NWQL results for this radionuclide are also
   excellent. Greater than 90 percent of the uranium concentrations are
   within 2 standard deviations of the sample mean and are well within the
   acceptance limits.

  SUMMARY

   Participation in national and international performance-evaluation
   studies provides many benefits to the National Water Quality Laboratory
   and its customers. Results from such studies offer an independent check
   of credibility and capability. These studies also provide a means for
   laboratories to be uniformly evaluated. Consistent involvement in
   performance-evaluation studies provides laboratories the opportunity to
   improve analytical techniques. Through participation in these studies
   and other quality-assurance programs, the National Water Quality
   Laboratory has been able to improve its performance while serving as a
   reliable source of environmental analytical data.

  CITED REFERENCES

   Friedman, L.C., and Erdmann, D.E., 1982, Quality assurance practices
   for the chemical
   [1inch.gif] and biological analyses of water and fluvial sediments:
   U.S. Geological Survey
   [1inch.gif] Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations, book 5, chap.
   A6, 181 p.

   Hoffman, G.L., 1996, Methods of analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey
   National Water
   [1inch.gif] Quality Laboratory--Preparation procedure for aquatic
   biological material determined
   [1inch.gif] for trace metals: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report
   96-362, 42 p.

   Long, H.K., and Farrar, J.W., 1993, Report on the U.S. Geological
   Survey's evaluation
   [1inch.gif] program for standard reference samples distributed in April
   1993: U.S. Geological
   [1inch.gif] Survey Open-File Report 93-436, 149 p.

   ______ 1994a, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in October 1993: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 94-42, 177 p.

   ______ 1994b, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in April 1994: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 94-369, 101 p.

   ______ 1995a, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in October 1994: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 95-117, 139 p.

   ______ 1995b, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in May 1995: U.S. Geological
   Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 95-395, 135 p.

   ______ 1996, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in April 1996: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 96-436, 143 p.

   ______ 1997a, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in September 1996: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 97-20, 145 p.

   ______ 1997b, Report on the U.S. Geological Survey's evaluation program
   for standard
   [1inch.gif] reference samples distributed in April 1997: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File
   [1inch.gif] Report 97-553, 184 p.

   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1994, Primary drinking-water
   regulations, maximum
   [1inch.gif] contaminant levels: U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Title
   40, parts 100-149, revised
   [1inch.gif] as of July 1, 1994, p. 658-700; Secondary drinking-water
   regulations, secondary maximum
   [1inch.gif] contaminant levels, p. 835-839.

   - Stephen R. Glodt and Kimberly D. Pirkey

   [for-info.gif]


    This page is URL: http://wwwnwql.cr.usgs.gov/Public/pubs/PE_Fact
    Created June 29, 1998
