http://www.boc.ca.gov/GovClms.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   GOVERNMENT CLAIMS

   Introduction
   Mission Statement
   Authority
   GC Program Description
   Types of Claims Processed
   How Does the GC Program Process Claims?
   Payment of Claims
   Other GC Program Activities
   GC Program Publications
   For More Information...
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
   The Government Claims (GC) Program resolves claims filed against the
   State of California alleging a legal liability on the part of the state
   as well as claims requesting equitable consideration for damages when
   the claimant may have no legal remedy. The GC Program also administers
   special programs mandated by the Legislature for the purpose of
   providing appropriate specified financial relief for citizens who have
   incurred damages due to natural disasters, or through the actions or
   inactions of state government.
   Mission Statement
   The mission of the GC Program is to provide a timely and effective
   means of helping people recover financially to the maximum extent
   allowed by law, from the actions or inactions of state government.
   Authority
   Under California law (Government Code Sections 900 - 965.9), any person
   may file a claim with the GC Program for money or damages against a
   state agency under the California Tort Claims Act (Act).
   GC Program Description
   The primary function of the GC Program is to receive and process all
   civil claims for money or damages that are filed against state agencies
   under the Act. The filing of a claim is legally required before a
   lawsuit against a state agency may be pursued. This process allows the
   state an opportunity to investigate and settle claims without the need
   for litigation.
   Types of Claims Processed
   The GC Program processes two general types of claims: Tort claims, for
   which the liability of the state is established in law; and Equity
   claims, for which the state has no established liability.
   Tort claims allege a legal obligation on the part of the state to
   reimburse the claimant for alleged damages caused by the state or its
   employees. Tort claims are filed pursuant to Government Code Section
   910 with time limits for filing the claim established under Government
   Code Section 911.2. Claims for death or injury to a person or personal
   property or for growing crops must be filed within six months of the
   date of injury. Claims for other causes of action, such as real
   property damage or breach of contract, must be filed within one year.
   Equity claims are established under Government Code Section 905.2 where
   there is no legal obligation on the part of the state for claimed
   damages or no appropriation available for payment, but the claimant is
   requesting equitable relief from the state. This type of claim commonly
   involves matters that are: 1) beyond the time limits for filing a legal
   claim; 2) a valid state contract that was never signed but work was
   completed; and 3) the claimant is entitled to reimbursement, but either
   there is no appropriation or payment, or the appropriation has expired
   and the funds have reverted.
   Examples of Typical Claims:
     * Vehicle Damage (Personal Property)
     * Real Property Damage
     * Impound/Towing of Vehicle
     * Accidents Involving State Vehicles
     * Breach of Contract/Contract Disputes
     * Refund of Tax Fee or Penalty
     * Inmate Personal Property

   Typical Equity Claims Include:
     * Stale-Dated Warrants
     * Requests for Reimbursement for Employee Salary or Travel Expenses
     * Requests for Reimbursement for Employee Personal Property Loss
     * Vendor Contracts
     * Refund Claims
     * Costs of Successfully Defending Lawsuits for the Required Reporting
       of Suspected Child or Elderly Abuse

   How Does the GC Program Process a Claim?
   After receipt of a claim, GC Program staff reviews it to ensure that it
   meets the legal requirements established under Government Code Sections
   910 and 910.2. If the claim meets all of those requirements, the GC
   Program refers it to the involved state agency for review and
   recommendation as to the merits of the claim. The state agency may
   either recommend that the California Victim Compensation and Government
   Claims Board reject, approve in full, or approve the claim in a partial
   amount.
   In some instances, a claim raises factual and/or legal issues that are
   too complex for informal resolution by the Board. As a result, the
   Board rejects such claims that are more appropriately resolved in a
   court of law. When the Board rejects a claim, it advises the claimant
   that he or she has six months from the date of the final board action
   notice to pursue a lawsuit against the state agency that allegedly
   caused the claimant's losses or damages.
   Following the receipt and review of the involved state agency's
   response, GC Program staff prepares their own claim recommendation and
   presents it to the three-member Board at a public meeting, during which
   the Board hears and acts on the claim. Written confirmation of the
   Board's decision is sent to the claimant two weeks following the
   meeting and a copy is sent to the involved state agency.
   Payment of Claims
   Board-approved tort claims are paid by the agency that caused the
   damages. However, the Office of the Attorney General usually pays tort
   claims from its Tort Claim Fund for General Funded agencies only.
   Special funded agencies must pay their own tort claims.
   Board-approved equity claims are included in one of two omnibus claims
   bills that are submitted to the Legislature annually. Once the
   Legislature and the Governor approve the claims bills, the Board makes
   payment to the claimant. However, the Legislature and Governor may
   still delete a claim from a claims bill. In such instances, the Board
   notifies the claimant that his/her claim was deleted and that he/she
   may initiate court action against the state agency.
   In both payment methods, all claimants are required to sign a release
   form which releases the State of California from further liability
   regarding the claim prior to receipt of payment.
   Other GC Program Activities
   Government Claims Advisory Committee
   In 1996, the GC Program created the Government Claims Advisory
   Committee, whose purpose is to exchange ideas and develop solutions to
   common concerns relative to the processing of claims filed with the
   Board under the Act. The 11-member committee is composed of state
   agency claims coordinators. The mission of the committee is to
   "exchange ideas and propose innovative solutions to improve efficiency
   and provide quality service in the processing and resolution of
   government claims."
   Claims Coordinator Workshops
   Each year, the GC Program conducts a training workshop for state agency
   claims coordinators. The focus of each workshop is to provide claims
   coordinators with an educational forum in which to learn about the GC
   Program's claims process and the Act. The workshops include
   presentations given by board staff and other state agency
   representatives, including the Office of the Attorney General and the
   Office of the State Controller. The presentations address topics such
   as the process for filing a claim, the differences between tort and
   equity claims, and the payment of equity claims via the omnibus claims
   bills.
   The GC Program also provides these training workshops for individual
   state agencies by request.
   GC Program Publications
   The following forms are available for download, or call, toll-free,
   1-800-955-0045 to have forms mailed to you.
     * Claim Form
     * Government Claims Program Brochure

   For More Information
   If you have questions or would like additional information regarding
   the Government Claims Program, contact us by calling toll-free
   1-800-955-0045 or write to: California Victim Compensation and
   Government Claims Board, Government Claims Program, P.O. Box 3035,
   Sacramento, California 95812-3035.
   Frequently Asked Questions
   What jurisdiction does the California Victim Compensation and
   Government Claims Board have?
   The Board has jurisdiction over any claim involving a state agency. As
   defined by Government Code Section 900.6, "state" means the state and
   any office, officer, department, division, bureau, board, commission or
   agency of the state claims against which are paid by warrants drawn by
   the Controller.
   The Board does not have jurisdiction over any local public entity. As
   provided by Government Code Section 900.4, "local public entity" is
   defined as any county, city, district, public authority, public agency,
   or any other political subdivision or public corporation in the state,
   but does not include the state.
   What type of damages can I file a claim for?
   The type of damages that can be filed for are provided in Government
   Code Section 905.2, as follows:
   905.2. Claims for money or damages against the state
   There shall be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing with
   Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of this part
   all claims for money or damages against the state;
    a. For which no appropriation has been made or for which no fund is
       available but the settlement of which has been provided for by
       statute or constitutional provision;
    b. For which the appropriation made or fund designated is exhausted;
    c. For money or damages (1) on express contract, or (2) for injury for
       which the state is liable; or
    d. For which settlement is not otherwise provided for by statute or
       constitutional provision.

   What is the process for filing an equity or tort claim with the
   Government Claims Program?
   You can call 1-800-955-0045 and request an application, which will then
   be mailed to you. You can also submit a letter requesting that a claim
   be filed. The information that must be included in your letter is as
   follows:
    a. The name and mailing address of the claimant.
    b. The mailing address to which the person presenting the claim
       desires notices to be sent.
    c. The date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or
       transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted.
    d. A general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury,
       damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time of
       presentation of the claim.
    e. The name or names of the public employee or employees causing the
       injury, damage, or loss, if known.
    f. The amount claimed if it totals less than $10,000 as of the date of
       presentation of the claim, together with the basis of computation
       of the amount claimed. If the amount claimed exceeds $10,000, no
       dollar amount shall be included in the claim. However, it shall
       indicate whether jurisdiction over the claim would rest in
       municipal or superior court.

   Mail the equity or tort claim to:
   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board
   Government Claims Division
   P.O. Box 3035
   Sacramento, CA 95812-3035
   What deadlines exist for filing a claim?
   Government Code Sections 911.2 through 911.4 provides a claim relating
   to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal
   property or growing crops shall be presented...not later than six
   months after accrual of the cause of action. A claim relating to any
   other cause of action shall be presented...not later than one year
   after the accrual of the cause of action.
   What is the process for filing a leave to present a late claim?
   If your claim is required to be filed within six months from the date
   of incident, and you are filing it after the six-month deadline, you
   must file a leave to present a late claim. As there is no application
   form available, the request should be in the form of a letter with the
   proposed claim attached. The Board is then required to act on the leave
   to present a late claim within 45 days.
   For what reasons are a leave to present a late claim granted?
   The Board will grant a late claim for any one of the following reasons:
    a. 911.6(b)(1) The failure to present the claim was through mistake,
       inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect and the public entity
       was not prejudiced in its defense of the claim by the failure to
       present the claim within the time specified in Government Code
       Section 911.2
    b. 911.6(b)(3) The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or
       loss was physically or mentally incapacitated during all of the
       time specified in Government Code Section 911.2 for the
       presentation of the claim and by reason of such disability failed
       to present a claim during such time; or
    c. 911.6(b)(4) The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or
       loss died before the expiration of the time specified in Government
       Code Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim.

   Which court has jurisdiction over my claim?
   Claims under $10,000 are handled on the Municipal Court level while
   claims over $10,000 are handled by the Superior Courts.
   How can I obtain a copy of a particular Government Code Section?
   Statutes relating to the Government Claims Program can be found at the
   Legislative Counsel's web site, commencing with California Government
   Code, Chapter 1, Section 900.
   How can I find out the status of my claim?
   You can find out the status of your claim by calling 1-800-955-0045.
   How long will it take before a recommendation is received from various
   state agencies?
   It normally takes from between 30 - 120 days for the GC Program to
   receive a recommendation from another state agency. Some agencies vary
   in the length of time it takes to respond.
   Who is currently handling my claim?
   You can call 1-800-955-0045 to find out who is currently reviewing your
   claim. Your claim will be assigned by the last two digits of your claim
   number to either a claims technician or an analyst.
   Did you receive a certain piece of correspondence I sent?
   You can call 1-800-955-0045 to find out if a certain piece of
   correspondence has been received. Please reference the claim number.
   What agencies do I have to file a claim with?
   It is only necessary to file a claim with the GC Program. Once your
   claim has been filed, the GC Program will then request recommendations
   from the impacted agencies.
   Why do I have to file a claim with the Board instead of with the
   agencies directly involved?
   The Legislature has given the Board the authority to handle all claims
   against the state. The impacted agencies will submit their
   recommendations as to how the claims should be settled.
   Where do I file a summons and complaint?
   If the action involves the Department of Transportation, the summons
   and complaint should be filed with:
   Department of Transportation
   1120 N Street
   Sacramento, CA 95814
   A summons and complaint for any other state agency should be filed
   with:
   Attorney General’s Office
   1300 I Street
   Sacramento, CA 95814
   Why does it take so long to process a claim?
   Normally a claim is processed within a short time. Certain
   requirements, such as a recommendation being required from another
   agency, may delay the processing of the claim. Additionally, if a claim
   is incomplete, the GC Program must notify the applicant to submit the
   missing information.
   If my claim involves the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) and the
   amount is less that $1,000, who do I contact to initiate a claim?
   A claim can be filed with the DMV at the following address:
   Department of Motor Vehicles
   Administrative Services Division, MS F113
   P.O. Box 932382
   Sacramento, CA 94232-3820
   The phone number is (916) 657-8152.
   Why are stale-dated checks processed as part of a claims bill? Why do
   they take so long to process?
   Stale-dated checks are processed as part of a claims bill because after
   four years the funds that the check were to be paid from are no longer
   available. As a result, a request must be made to the Legislature to
   allocate new funds that the check will be paid from. The legislators
   meet only twice a year which causes the delay in processing.
   What is the procedure for filing a subrogation claim?
   The procedure for filing a subrogation claim is to submit a letter
   stating cause of action, insured’s name, policy number and date of
   action.
   Should I file a claim with the Board even if the entity most likely
   responsible is a private agency such as an independent contractor
   working for CALTRANS?
   To insure that your legal rights are protected, it is always safer to
   file a claim with the Board as well as against the private entity.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
