http://www.ia.nrcs.usda.gov/about_iowa.htm

   [Ellen_Map.jpg]

                  About NRCS In Iowa

   [USEMAP:buttons.jpg]

   NRCS Office Locator  Careers in NRCS

   The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) works through county
   soil and water conservation districts to protect and improve natural
   resources across the state..

   Our main programs include:

   Conservation Technical Assistance

   Through our network of 100 field offices, NRCS staff provides technical
   assistance to the state's landowners, farmers, communities, groups and
   other agencies to help them protect and conserve the states natural
   resources including soil, water and wildlife habitat. Iowa NRCS employs
   many specialists—from soil scientists to wildlife biologists—to ensure
   the state's landowners have access to reliable and proven technical
   information. Technical assistance includes natural resource inventories
   and assessments, and assistance in developing and implementing
   conservation plans for private lands.

   Conservation Compliance

   More than two of every three Iowa landowners has what is termed by NRCS
   as highly erodible land. The NRCS works with more than 70,000 farmers
   to carry out the conservation work outlined in more than 130,000
   conservation compliance plans.

   CORE 4

   Core 4 is a common-sense approach to improving farm profitability while
   addressing environmental concerns. The approach is easily adaptable to
   virtually any farming situation and can be fine-tuned to meet farmers'
   unique needs. The net result is better soil, cleaner water, greater
   on-farm profits, and a brighter future for all of us. NRCS partners
   with the Conservation Technology Information Center to bring this
   program to Iowa's farmers and landowners.

   Wetlands

   The NRCS administers the Wetland Reserve Program aimed at returning
   wetland areas that have been cropped to wetland conditions. The
   Emergency Wetland Reserve also worked to place permanent easements on
   land that has a flood history. The land is returned to wetland
   conditions. Wetland determination and mitigation assistance is provided
   for USDA wetland compliance programs.

   Water Quality

   Everyday resource management work the NRCS undertakes--such as planning
   for soil conservation, water management, and better woodlands and
   grasslands--contributes to better water quality. In addition, NRCS is
   involved in nearly 100 water quality projects around the state.

   Resource Conservation and Development

   Iowa NRCS has 14 RC&D areas. Resource Conservation and Development
   (RC&D) projects are helping communities across the state improve their
   economic base through training, pilot programs, seed money, and
   guidance. NRCS funds one or two staff in an RC&D office, and the RC&D
   council, made up of local representatives, is responsible for
   developing projects and getting funds to carry out the projects. For a
   list of RC&D offices, click here.

   Soil Surveys

   NRCS provides soils information for public use. Builders, farmers,
   developers, environmentalists and engineers are among those interested
   in soils data. See the Soils section for more information about Iowa
   soil.

   Watershed Program

   NRCS helps urban and rural communities develop and improve water and
   land resources in watersheds up to 250,000 acres. Conservation measures
   in flood-torn Iowa substantially reduced damage to land, crops, roads
   and other public facilities
