http://www.interns.sfa.ed.gov/interns/faq.htm

   Student Financial Assistance - We help put America through school


   Student Financial Assistance
   About SFA
   Overview
   Intern FAQs
   How To Apply
   Fun
   Contact Us
   Student Internship Program
   Internship FAQ's

   What is SFA? Student Financial Assistance (SFA) is the largest agency
   in the U.S. Department of Education. SFA is the largest source of
   student financial aid in America, providing over $60 billion annually
   in grants, loans and work-study. SFA was designated a
   "Performance-Based Organization" (PBO) by Congress in 1998.

   What is a PBO? Hoping to improve service and reduce costs, Congress
   established SFA as the government's first Performance-Based
   Organization. The main idea behind a PBO is to make a government agency
   run like a private company.

   Why would I be interested in working at SFA? As an SFA intern, you will
   have the opportunity to work on challenging projects that impact
   millions of students. You'll be given real work and the opportunity to
   make a real contribution. Students in our program design web-pages,
   prepare policy papers, write press releases and work on other cool
   projects.

   How much clerical work? No more than 20%. The SFA internship program
   prides itself on offering an internship program that focuses on
   substantive work.

   Are internships paid? Yes! Interns will be paid $425 to $550 per week
   before taxes depending on their experience and education. Students also
   receive a free transit pass that will allow them to use public
   transportation for free as well as two paid vacation days.

   Do you provide housing? SFA does not provide housing for interns in the
   Washington, DC area. Upon acceptance into the program, a list of
   suggested housing options in the area universities and apartments will
   be available. Housing in Washington, DC is expensive and generally
   costs between $500 to $900 a month.

   Can the internship be taken for credit? Since the policies of all
   schools and universities vary, you should contact your school's
   registrar and inquire about the particular rules of your school.

   How long do internships last? The 2002 summer internship program will
   run for 11 weeks, from May 28th to August 9th.

   How many hours per week? Interns are required to work 40 hours per
   week.

   Where are the internships located? All of our internships are located
   in Washington, DC.

   Who is eligible to apply? The SFA Internship program is open to U.S.
   citizens currently enrolled at least half-time at an academic,
   technical or vocational, 2 or 4-year college or university, graduate or
   professional school. Students must be enrolled to attend classes in the
   fall of 2002.

   Who can I contact if I have more questions? Please send us an e-mail at
   OSFA_Interns@ed.gov or fill out our online form.
   Student Financial Assistance (SFA)
   U.S. Department Of Education (ED)
   Site Policies
