http://www.mvhcb.gov/mvhcb_13h/disclaimer.htm


   Skip to content area Skip to left side navigation Skip to bottom page
   MVHCB logo

   Documents
   PRD-5
   Force Health Protection
   Research Reports
   Clinical Practice Guidelines
   Health Consequences of the Gulf War
   Deployment Readiness-a review of sexual trauma
   Related Links
   Veterans Affairs
   Health & Human Services
   Defense Link News
   Office of the Special Assistant for Gulf War Illness
   Other DOD, DHHS and VA agencies



   MVHCB title
               News & Events Home Members Only FAQs

   Web Service Disclaimer


   Disclaimer of Endorsement: Reference herein to any specific commercial
   products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer,
   or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
   recommendation, or favoring by the United States Military or
   Government. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not
   necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Military or
   Government, and shall not be used for advertising or product
   endorsement purposes.

   The appearance of external hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement
   by the Military and Veterans Health Coordinating Board of the linked
   web sites, or the information, products or services contained therein.
   For other than authorized MVHCB activities, this organization does not
   exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at
   these locations. All links are provided with the intent of meeting the
   mission of the Military and Veterans Health Coordinating Board web
   site.

   Disclaimer of Liability: With respect to documents available from this
   server, neither the United States Military or Government nor any of
   their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, including the
   warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or
   assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy,
   completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or
   process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe
   privately owned rights.

   Notice: Information from this server resides on a computer system
   funded by the United States Government. The use of this system may be
   monitored for computer security purposes. Any unauthorized access to
   this system is prohibited and is subject to criminal and civil
   penalties under Federal Laws including but not limited to Public Laws
   83-703 and 99-474.

   Reference from this Web page to any non-governmental entity, product,
   service or information does not constitute an endorsement or
   recommendation by the Military and Veterans Health Coordinating Board
   or any of its member employees. We are not responsible for the content
   of any "off-site" web pages referenced from this server.


   [hr.gif]

   [ News & Events | Home | Members Only | FAQs ]

   [ Contact Us | Private Policy | VA Disclaimer ]
