http://neri.ne.doe.gov/overview00_t.html

   United States Department of Energy
   Office of Nuclear Technology, Science and Technology
   Nuclear Energy Research Initiative
   Overview

   The Department of Energy (DOE) created the Nuclear Energy Research
   Initiative (NERI) to address and help overcome the principal technical
   and scientific issues affecting the future use of nuclear energy in the
   United States. NERI is also expected to help preserve the nuclear
   science and engineering infrastructure within our Nation's
   universities, laboratories, and industry; to advance the state of
   nuclear energy technology to maintain a competitive position worldwide.
   DOE believes that in funding creative research ideas at the Nation's
   science and technology institutions and companies, solutions to
   important nuclear issues will be realized, and a new potential for
   nuclear energy in the United States will emerge.

   Background

   In January 1997, the President tasked his Committee of Advisors on
   Science and Technology (PCAST) to evaluate the current national energy
   research and development (R&D) portfolio and to provide a strategy that
   ensures the United States has a program to address the Nation's energy
   and environmental needs for the next century. In its November 1997
   report responding to this request, the PCAST Energy Research and
   Development Panel determined that restoring a viable nuclear energy
   option to help meet our future energy needs is important and that a
   properly focused R&D effort should be implemented by DOE to address the
   principal obstacles to achieving this option. These obstacles include
   issues involving proliferation, economics, nuclear waste, and safety.
   The panel recommended that technologies to be addressed include, but
   not be limited to, work on proliferation-resistant reactors or fuel
   cycles; new reactor designs with higher efficiency, reduced cost, and
   enhanced safety to compete in the global market; lower output power
   reactors for applications where larger reactors may not be
   advantageous; and new techniques for on-site and surface storage and
   for permanent disposal of nuclear waste.

   New R&D Approach

   DOE has made a fundamental change in the management of it's nuclear
   energy research activities. DOE's new approach with NERI features a
   competitive, peer-reviewed, R&D selection process to fund researcher
   initiated R&D proposals from the universities, national laboratories,
   and industry. NERI will be managed by DOE's Office of Nuclear Energy,
   Science and Technology and will receive guidance from the Nuclear
   Energy Research Advisory Committee (NERAC). NERAC's primary function
   will be to assist DOE in effectively carrying out its role in nuclear
   energy research. The advisory committee consists of expert members from
   a wide variety of research backgrounds and perspectives.

   Back to NERI Text-Only Home Page
