http://www.occ.treas.gov/ftp/release/2002-07.txt

   NR 2002-07 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robert M. Garsson (202)
   874-5770 January 18, 2002 OCC and Peoples Bank of China Assess Money
   Penalties Against Bank of China WASHINGTON -- The Office of the
   Comptroller of the Currency and the Peoples Bank of China announced
   today they have entered into separate actions against Bank of China and
   its U.S.-based federal branches for misconduct engaged in by prior
   management. The banks New York branch will pay a $10 million penalty to
   the OCC and the parent bank, which is based in Beijing, will pay an
   equivalent amount in local currency to the Peoples Bank of China, for a
   total of $20 million. The bank and its U.S. branches have begun to
   implement measures to prevent future misconduct. In reaching this
   settlement, the OCC noted that the banks current management cooperated
   with the investigations conducted by the OCC and the Peoples Bank of
   China. The actions taken by the new management of the bank include
   removing officers suspected of misconduct, uncovering and reporting
   acts of misconduct to the two regulatory agencies, and requiring the
   U.S. branches to implement several action plans over the past 18 months
   to correct misconduct of prior management. The OCC supervises Bank of
   Chinas three U.S.-based federal branches -- two in New York and one in
   Los Angeles. The OCCs monetary penalties were levied against one of the
   New York branches, where the misconduct was uncovered, but the remedial
   measures cover all three branches. The People's Bank of China is the
   home-country regulator of Bank of China. The misconduct, which resulted
   in significant losses to the New York Branch, included showing
   preferential treatment to certain customers of the New York branch who
   had personal relationships with some members of the New York branchs
   prior management. The OCC had a number of other concerns about the Bank
   of Chinas U.S. branches under the former bank management, including
   large exposures to a single borrower, the facilitation of a fraudulent
   letter of credit scheme, the facilitation of a loan fraud scheme, the
   unauthorized release of collateral and the concealment of that action,
   and other suspicious activity and potential fraud. In its consent
   order, the OCC required Bank of Chinas federal branches to: develop
   procedures to guard against fraud; provide for adequate customer due
   diligence, using an independent third party to verify compliance; and
   cease doing business with 34 specific individuals and companies, and
   affiliated entities. The consent order also requires Bank of Chinas
   federal branches to: - Strengthen their Risk Management Division,
   ensuring that it has unrestricted access to documents, files and
   personnel of the federal branches, and authority to terminate customer
   relationships, deny loans and conduct investigations. - Develop new
   policies and procedures to guard against fraud in trade settlement
   transactions, including direct verifications of documents submitted by
   customers. - Adopt new policies and procedures to prevent loan fraud,
   including analysis of related accounts, requirements for audited
   financial statements and additional due diligence on large customers
   and those who conduct business with the large customers. - Hire an
   independent third-party to conduct a portion of the direct
   verifications of trade settlement documents and conduct due diligence
   on large customers and their business relationships. - Implement new
   procedures to identify account owners and beneficial owners. In the
   case of business accounts, officers, directors and major shareholders
   must be identified and, in some cases, credit reports are required for
   account owners, beneficial owners, shareholders and other parties. Bank
   of Chinas U.S. branches have already begun to implement the remedial
   measures required in the consent order. In taking the enforcement
   action, both the OCC and the Peoples Bank of China recognized the banks
   willingness to rectify past problems and the substantial progress that
   it has made. The two agencies believe that the banks reorganization of
   the branches will better ensure compliance with applicable federal law
   and safe and sound banking practices The enforcement action stems from
   a lengthy investigation by the OCC and a separate inquiry by the
   Peoples Bank of China. ### Attachments: Statement of Comptroller of the
   Currency John D. Hawke, Jr. Statement of the Peoples Bank of China
   Statement of Bank of China Chairman and President Liu Mingkang The OCC
   charters, regulates and examines approximately 2,200 national banks and
   52 federal branches of foreign banks in the U.S., accounting for more
   than 54 percent of the nations banking assets. Its mission is to ensure
   a safe and sound and competitive national banking system that supports
   the citizens, communities and economy of the United States.
