http://www.nj.nrcs.usda.gov/publicinfo/annualreport2000.pdf

   Emergency Watershed Protection Program Having requested help through
   their municipality, the owners of this Passaic County home are among
   many who received prompt technical and financial assistance through the
   Emergency Watershed Protection Program (EWP) in FY 2000. This slope
   stabilization project was part of a $940,000 flood damage remediation
   effort NRCS carried out after widespread flooding in September 1999. In
   August 2000, when flash flooding caused devastation in many areas of
   northwestern New Jersey, NRCS engineers immediately began EWP work.
   Approximately $600,000 in Federal funds were provided to the recovery
   effo To learn more about NRCS in New Jersey: Visit our website at
   www.nj.nrcs.usda.gov Contact us at a local USDA Service Center Or call
   us at 732-246-1171 NRCS providing engineering assistance for manure
   storage facility expansion, Salem County dairy farm Cover photo:
   Wastewater system for water quality protection, designed for a Warren
   County dairy farmer by NRCS staff. A collection and storage system has
   also been developed for manure management on this farm. The U.S.
   Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in all its
   programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national origin,
   sex, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation,
   or marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases apply to all
   programs.) Persons with disabilities who require alternative means for
   communication of program information (Braille, large print, audiotape,
   etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and
   TDD). To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director,
   Office of Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten Building, 14th and
   Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410 or call (202)
   720-5964 (voice and TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and
   employer. Interest in EQIP Program Remains High NRCS Conservation
   Programs Benefit New Jersey's Land, Water and People FY 2000 was the
   second year that NRCS leveraged $2 in State funding for every $1
   available through the Federal Environmental Quality Incentives Program
   (EQIP), for a total of $2,200,000. The Natural Resources Conservation
   Interest among the farm community in the combined EQIP/State Service
   (NRCS) works with New Jersey's This map shows the Conservation Cost
   Share Program (CCSP) remained high, with 16 Soil Conservation Districts
   and state number of customers that $10 million in initial requests for
   financial assistance. Only about one-fifth of the need for assistance
   could, therefore, be approved. conservation partners to conserve,
   received conservation services from NRCS in EQIP/CCSP funds were
   obligated to assist farmers with improve and sustain natural resources
   each of New Jersey's 21 conservation plans to address nonpoint source
   pollution control, for New Jersey's residents. NRCS counties in FY
   2000. animal waste management, erosion control and irrigation, and
   employees and their conservation nutrient and pest management needs.
   partners provided information and Conservation education, soil surveys,
   community technical assistance directly to more than service work and
   10,600 New Jersey landowners and watershed planning, as Community
   Assistance farmers in fiscal year 2000. well as traditional farm
   planning, are included. Requests for NRCS services and staff NRCS and
   partners assisted many communities with natural resource issues and
   watershed planning. workload continue to increase. Workload I The Urban
   Conservation I NRCS provided technical I South Jersey Resource analyses
   indicate a need for 86 NRCS Action Partnership (UCAP) guidance to a
   five-county Conservation & Development field staff, while current NRCS
   technical developed a workshop which steering committee of the (RC&D)
   Council coordinated a assistance funding for New Jersey allows was
   presented in several Millstone River Watershed PL- multiagency effort
   to rebuild for only 40. As a result, NRCS communities to educate public
   566 Project. The committee is Repaupo Creek's tidegate conservationists
   are able to manage only works employees on goose addressing flood
   damage structure, providing protection to half of the demand for
   agricultural reduction strategies to lower reduction, aquifer recharge,
   over 450 homes and businesses technical services. nonpoint source
   pollution, and open space preservation, along the Repaupo Creek in on
   vegetation management in stream health and recreational Gloucester
   County. North Jersey In fiscal year 2000, NRCS conservationists worked
   directly with farmers and landowners to plan parks and public areas to
   control development within the RC&D has begun implementation
   conservation systems on 32,222 acres in New Jersey to improve water
   quality, reduce erosion, and soil erosion and beautify the 180,000-acre
   watershed. of the Watershed Management maintain wildlife habitat. NRCS
   staff helped apply conservation practices on 17,828 acres. community.
   planning process for the Upper Delaware Watershed. Most Common
   Conservation Practices The one-to-one, direct technical assistance
   Applied in FY 2000 by Percentage of provided by conservation employees
   brought New Jersey Acres Treated real improvement to New Jersey's
   natural Soil Survey Progress 6% resources. Highlights of their
   accomplishments 4% 9% for FY 2000 include: NRCS soil scientists worked
   on soil Digitized surveys are available 35% survey updates in five
   counties in FY in thirteen counties in New * Nutrient management plans
   developed for 2000: Sussex, Warren, Gloucester, Jersey. Digital soils
   data may be 16,655 acres. Cumberland and Salem. Currently, downloaded
   free of charge: 15% * Conservation systems that improved the modern
   soil surveys are available in 16 of http://www.ftw.nrcs.usda.gov/
   natural resource condition - applied on 930 New Jersey's 21 counties.
   Union and ssur_data.html acres of grazing land and 14,065 acres of Cape
   May counties' soil surveys are now 31% cropped land. complete and are
   awaiting publication. Nutrient Mgmt 35% Tillage Reduced 31% Pest Mgmt
   15% Erosion Control 9% Irrigation Water Mgmt 4% Other 6%*** * Pest
   management plans applied on 7,097 NRCS soil scientists are currently
   mapping the Essex County survey. *** includes Wetlands
   Created/Enhanced, Trees & Shrubs Planted, Wildlife Management, and
   acres. Prescribed Grazing. * 2,050 acres of cropland protected against
   Digital Soil Surveys excessive erosion. In FY 2000, soil surveys were
   digitized in four counties. To digitize the data in a soil Complete and
   certified * 63 irrigation water management systems In process Data on
   NRCS conservation progress is now survey, NRCS uses aerial photos as a
   installed on 1,776 acres. available to the public on-line. Visit the
   website: base to delineate soil lines and Pending
   www.nrcs.usda.gov/prms; go to "Products." * Habitat enhanced for
   threatened and boundaries. Once surveys have been endangered species on
   1,200 acres. digitized, they can be used in any October 2000 * 48
   animal waste management systems Geographic Information System (GIS) for
   installed. watershed and land use planning.
