http://exchanges.state.gov/education/citizens/students/

   [banpol.gif]


      E   d   u   c   a   t   i   o   n   a   l     a   n   d     C   u
   l   t   u   r   a   l      A   f   f   a   i   r   s
      Y o u t h    P r o g r a m s

                               German Programs
                                NIS Exchange
                                  Programs
                       Future Leaders Exchange (FLEX)
                               Young Political
                                   Leaders
                             School Partnership
                                   Program
                             Teaching Excellence
                                   Awards

                              Youth Leadership
                                 Program for
                              Southeast Europe
                                  Open RFPs
                                Domestic Per
                                 Diem Rates
                                 Foreign Per
                                 Diem Rates
                                   Citizen
                                  Exchanges
                                  Homepage

     The NIS Secondary School Initiative was conceived out of the
     conviction that only through the young people of the New Independent
     States (NIS), formerly part of the Soviet Union, could true
     democracy be realized. The program is based on a belief that, in the
     long term, the people of the former Soviet Union need a vision more
     than they need shipments of food or supplies - a vision of what
     their new societies can and should look like.
     One of the best ways to accomplish this is to bring thousands of
     young people from the NIS to the U.S., where they will learn about
     the responsibilities and opportunities that come with living in a
     democracy with a free-market economy. Independence, initiative, and
     self-confidence are stressed in programming that seeks to develop
     potential future leaders of the republics of the former Soviet
     Union.
     Since 1993, over 26,000 students and educators from the NIS and the
     United States have participated in Initiative-funded programs. The
     Initiative promotes exchange programs of high school students and
     teachers through grants to private not-for-profit organizations and
     public educational institutions.
     Initiative Goals:
    1. To foster interaction between young people from the United States
       and the NIS; to promote better understanding of one another so as
       to contribute to our common future through our greatest resource,
       our youth.
    2. To integrate the people of the NIS into the global citizenry by
       assisting young people of the NIS countries in building a new and
       open society and by promoting democratic values and the development
       of democratic institutions from the grass roots level.
    3. To build sustainable partnerships between organizations in the
       United States and organizations in the NIS by sponsoring high
       quality programs administered by competent public and private
       sector organizations and delivered in an expeditious and efficient
       manner.
    4. To recognize our interdependence and work to effect the most
       positive contribution possible in the educational system and civic
       mentality in the NIS through the multiplier effect of the programs.

     hr
     For further information, contact:
     Youth Programs Division
     Office of Citizen Exchanges
     U.S. Department of State, SA-44
     301 4th Street, S.W., Suite 568
     Washington, D.C. 20547
     Phone: 202/619-6299
     Fax: 202/619-5311
     Email Anita Beamon-Freeman
     hr Top of page
