http://www.senate.gov/~foreign/minority/press_template.cfm?rands_id=179847

        Main |  Committee Info |  Hearings |  Press |  Links |  Majority
                                    Website

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   DATE: December 5, 2001                              CONTACT: Lester Munson
                                         PHONE: 202-224-6797

   Read Senator Helms Speech Accepting Freedom Leadership Award From Hillsdale
                                     College

     I am honored, of course, by your invitation to be with you tonight and
      by your kind expressions about this old (very) Senator who has been a
       not-too-secret admirer of Hillsdale College for a very long while.

         I like and admire everything about Hillsdale, much of which is
      encapsulated in your motto ---- ("Virtue Rejoices in Doing"). And if
     that is not the bottom line of what I regard as the Miracle of America,
                    I would be at a loss to try to find one.

      The older I get, the more firmly persuaded I become that America was
        intended to be a manifestation of the intent of the Lord who was
       experimenting with the frailties, and the strengths, of mankind by
     extending to those hardy Pilgrim souls who came here seeking a freedom
      of worship and an opportunity to work and prosper unfettered by kings
                                  and kingdoms.

      Ben Franklin was a part of all that at Philadelphia when the founding
      Fathers met to decide the final details of this new republic. But he
     sensed as well an attitude of self-interest festering, a forgetfulness
     of what freedom is all about. You know the story ---- you've heard it a
                                 thousand times.

       Dr. Franklin's alarm at what he was hearing and seeing grew into an
     obligation to seek recognition from the presiding officer. Gaining that
     necessary recognition, Dr. Franklin began to speak in candor about what
       was going on. He was concerned, he said, that the group had somehow
     lost sight of the source of their blessings. So he urged that the doors
     and windows be shut and that all present should fall to their knees to
         ask the Source of their blessings to guide them in these final
                                 deliberations.

     The doors and the windows were closed and those men prayed, it is said,
        for a lot of things ---- including forgiveness for their selfish
             inclinations, but most of all they prayed for guidance.

        You know the rest of the story. Those Founding Fathers, as we now
      reverently refer to them, lowered their voices. They prayed together
     with reverence and gratitude and for the ability to emphasize the great
     spiritual manifestation that would be America. And it was then that the
       miracle manifested itself ---- the birth of this great new land of
                            freedom and opportunity.

     To their astonishment, the pathway to freedom was achieved, their work
     was finished, and they climbed aboard their carriages and their horses,
                              and headed for home.

     As Ben Franklin emerged from that Philadelphia building, a lady is said
         to have rushed up and, with great anxiety, asked: "Tell me, Dr.
            Franklin, what do we have ---- a monarchy or a republic?"

         To which Dr. Franklin replied in measured syllables: "We have a
                 republic, my dear lady ---- if we can keep it".

      So as your motto marvelously emphasizes, ours is a nation founded on
      the idea of virtue in action. The virtues that animated our Founding
     Fathers ---- faith, courage, and a selfless dedication to the truth of
       human freedom ---- are what set us apart as a people and a nation.

          America is the only nation in history founded on an idea: the
      proposition that all men are created equal, and are endowed by their
       creator with inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of
     happiness. No other nation can make such a claim. This is what makes us
       unique. It is why, for more than two centuries, America has been a
            beacon of liberty for all who aspire to live in freedom.

       It is also why America was so brutally attacked on September 11th.

     The terrorists who struck the Pentagon and the World Trade Towers were
       attacking us because of what America stands for: freedom, religious
     toleration and individual liberty. They despise what we represent. They
       hate the success with which the American idea has spread around the
     world! And they want to terrorize us into retreat and inaction, so that
      we will be afraid to defend freedom abroad and live as free people at
                                      home.

                             They will not succeed.

       The terrorists we fight today are not the first aggressors of their
     kind to challenge us. Indeed, at this moment of trial, it is altogether
        fitting that we gather to honor the memory of that great man, Sir
     Winston Churchill, whose courage, conviction and steely resolve led the
      Allies to victory over Fascism ---- and Mr. Churchill then warned us
     about the danger of the emerging Communist threat and the Iron Curtain
                         then descending across Europe.

       As in Churchill's time, today our freedom and way of life have once
       again come under vicious attack. Today, we face a new and different
          enemy ---- one who hides in caves, and who strikes in new and
      unexpected ways. Yet in many ways this new enemy is no different from
                  the enemy Churchill faced six decades ago!!.

     The terrorists of the 21st Century are, in truth, the modern successors
      to the murderous ideologies of the 20th Century. And let there be no
       doubt: like Fascism and Communism before it, Terrorism will one day
                 soon lie smoldering on the ash heap of history.

     But as shocking as the September 11th events were, it should have come
     as no surprise that our nation was once again challenged by aggressors
                            bent on her destruction.

      Jefferson warned us that "the price of liberty is eternal vigilance."
      And since our founding, Jefferson has been proven right time and time
       again. New enemies have constantly emerged to threaten us, and the
        lesson of history is, that to secure our liberty, America must be
     constantly on guard, preparing to defend our nation against tomorrow's
              adversaries even as we vanquish the enemies of today.

     Over the past decade, America let down her guard. With the collapse of
     the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, our leaders assumed that
     the post-Cold War world would be one of unlimited peace and prosperity
     ---- that our greatest security challenges would be invading Haiti, or
                 stopping wars in places like Bosnia and Kosovo.

       The Clinton people slashed our defense budget in search of a "peace
     dividend," while sending our forces all over the world on a plethora of
        missions that drained their readiness and forcing them to put off
     investments they needed to prepare for the real emerging threats to our
     security. Instead of focusing on new dangers, they spent their time and
     energy forging ridiculous new treaties ---- like the Kyoto Protocol and
       the International Criminal Court ---- while fighting desperately to
                 preserve antiquated ones, like the ABM Treaty!!

     In light of this new war, it is almost humorous to look back on some of
     the foreign policy debates of the 1990s. Can anyone imagine Kofi Annan
        today declaring, as Kofi did two years ago, that the UN Security
      Council is the "sole source of legitimacy for the use of the force in
      the world"? Or former Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott today
      repeating his ridiculous assertion that "all countries are basically
      social arrangements .... no matter how permanent or even sacred they
      may seem at one time, in fact they are all artificial and temporary.

     "Within the next hundred years," Tablott added, "nationhood as we know
         it will be obsolete; all states will recognize a single global
                                   authority!"

       Let Mr. Talbott tell that to the policemen and firemen at the World
      Trade Towers--- that nationhood is obsolete. Let him tell that to all
      the millions of Americans flying flags from their homes and cars. Let
      him tell that to the thousands of brave Americans in uniform, who at
      this very moment are voluntarily risking their lives to defend their
                                    country.

     Today, in the wake of the September 11 attacks, we have rediscovered a
       lost sense of national pride we have restored sanity to the debates
     about what matters in U.S. foreign policy. Awakened to new dangers, our
     challenge is now twofold: First, we must win the war on terrorism that
      took our nation by surprise. And second, we must prepare now for the
         threats that could emerge to surprise us in the decades ahead.

     Thanks to the outstanding leadership of President Bush, the Taliban is
         in retreat, and bin-Laden is on the run. Afghanistan's freedom
      fighters, aided by U.S. and allied forces, are in control of most of
        the country. The only major city still in Taliban hands is their
     southern headquarters of Kandahar. And they will soon be driven out of
                               that city as well.

     But the war on terrorism is far from over. Indeed, one could well argue
       that the most difficult challenge comes now, as the Afghan campaign
      moves from the taking of cities, to a cave-by-cave hunt for bin-Laden
      and his terrorist network. Ripping that network out by its roots will
                     be long, difficult and dangerous work.

     Moreover, President Bush's greatest challenge may come after the Afghan
      phase of the war is over. The bin-Laden terrorist network operates in
     dozens of countries. Moreover, bin-Laden's network is not the only one
       that threatens America and hers allies. Terrorist networks operate
     across the world, with the support of dozens of terrorist states, some
     of which give them safe haven, while others actively support them with
                          money, weapons and training.

      President Bush has made clear that this war will not end until every
      terrorist network with global reach is decisively defeated. Moreover,
       the President had made clear that the United States will no longer
     tolerate states that support, or provide safe haven to, terrorists who
                        threaten America and her allies.

      That means, I am convinced, that the war on terrorism cannot and will
       not end until Saddam Hussein suffers that same fate as the Taliban.
       While we do not yet know that Saddam was directly involved with the
        tragic events of September 11th, there is a mountain of evidence
      linking him to international terrorism generally, and to bin-Laden's
                         terrorist network specifically.

         We know for a fact that Saddam attempted to assassinate former
       President Bush. We know with certainty that Saddam has chemical and
     biological agents, and is pursuing nuclear weapons. We know for certain
         that, days before coming to the U.S., one of the September 11th
      hijackers met with an Iraqi agent in Prague ---- and that soon after
       that meeting, this very same bin-Laden operative was in the United
           States inquiring how one goes about renting a crop-duster.

     So, the obvious next step in the war on terrorism is the elimination of
     Saddam Hussein's tyrannical terrorist regime. Just as the United States
     teamed up with determined Afghans ---- who were ready, willing and able
     to overthrow the Taliban with U.S. support ---- there are Iraqis ready,
      willing and able ---- with U.S. training, weapons and support ---- to
                            overthrow Saddam Hussein.

      But taking the war to Saddam will certainly be no easy task. We must
       accept the probability that many of the nations rallying around us
       today will be nowhere to be found when we move to eliminate Saddam.
     Indeed, some are likely to be vocally opposed; they may scream and yell
     and stomp their feet, demanding "evidence" of Iraq's involvement in the
                             September 11th attacks.

     It is then that President Bush must patiently remind them that it does
     not matter if Saddam was directly involved in September 11th ---- that
        the war on terrorism is a war against all terrorists who threaten
      America, regardless of whether they bombed the World Trade Towers or,
      sought to murder a former President of the United States, or threaten
        our people with nuclear, chemical and biological weapons of mass
                                  destruction.

      Saddam Hussein is a state-sponsor of terrorism who himself is seeking
     the instruments of terror ---- and the world will never be secure until
                                   he is gone.

         We must proceed against him with the same resolve that we have
      proceeded against the Taliban in Afghanistan. Once the world sees two
      terrorist regimes in rubble, I suspect that support for international
          terrorism will dry up pretty quickly, when dictators begin to
     understand that waging a war by proxy against the United States carries
                          deadly consequences for them.

      While we prosecute the war on terrorism to its logical conclusion, we
      must, at the very same time, begin preparing for the next threats to
       America ---- threats which could be quite different from terrorist
                             threats we face today.

          Threats that were previously considered "unlikely" need to be
      re-examined in a new light. Before September 11th, it was considered
     unlikely that anyone would dare launch a direct strike on the Pentagon
     ---- no foreign enemy had previously dared attack our nation's capital
     since the War of 1812. Those assumptions were proven wrong on September
      11th ---- and in light of those attacks, we should now reexamine our
     assumptions regarding a great many "unlikely" and improbable scenarios.

     Yes, the next challenge we face may indeed come from terrorism. It may
     very well come from a rogue state armed with ballistic missiles capable
             of reaching New York or Los Angeles. It might come from
       cyber-terrorists who seek to cripple our nation and our economy by
      attacking our vital information networks. Or from a country that has
       developed small "killer satellites" capable of attacking our space
     infrastructure, on which both our defense and our economy depend. Or it
     may come from a traditional, state-on-state war ---- such as a Chinese
                               invasion of Taiwan.

     In any event, it is essential that we begin preparing ---- now ---- for
     all of these possibilities, by developing defenses against a wide range
                             of asymmetric threats.

     We must also look realistically at who our potential adversaries could
       be in the decades ahead. For example, Communist China ---- a nation
     with no respect for human rights, or religious freedom, or the rule of
     law ---- China remains both a present and emerging threat to the United
     States. Today, China is a thorn in our side; we must make sure that, as
             China rises, it does not become a dagger at our throat.

        China's annual, double-digit increases in military spending, its
     virulent anti-American propaganda, and its aggressive arms acquisitions
       are all very clear indications that China fully intends to become a
     superpower ---- and, when it is able, to seek regional hegemony in Asia
                 and threaten our democratic friends on Taiwan.

       Moreover, Beijing continues to be involved in the proliferation of
      dangerous capabilities that threaten the United States. China has for
     years exported dangerous missile technology to Pakistan, and according
      to the Director of Central Intelligence, that support continues today
                                    unabated.

       (If an "Islamic bomb" ever falls into fundamentalist hands, should
     Pakistan's current regime collapse, we will have Beijing in large part
                                   to thank).

         China has also supplied chemical weapons-related equipment and
     technology to Iran. And, earlier this year, U.S. and British war planes
      had to destroy fiber-optic cables, laid by Chinese firms in Iraq, as
       part of Saddam Hussein's ever-improving air defense infrastructure.

      China is by no means the only nation that could one day threaten us.
       Countries like Iran, Syria, Sudan, North Korea and Cuba continue to
     provide aid, comfort and refuge to terrorist elements that wish to harm
     the United States. Several are seeking weapons of mass destruction ----
          and the means to deliver them. And they are sharing dangerous
                   technology, and know-how, with each other.

     So the events of September 11 have reminded all of us why we should be
     mindful of these kind of activities ---- and why we cannot merely hold
                        our noses and hope for the best.

     Of course, in times of war, the enemy of our enemy is often our friend.
       During World War II, Churchill explained his wartime alliance with
       Stalin this way: "If Hitler invaded Hell," Churchill said, "I would
        make at least a favorable reference to the Devil in the House of
                                    Commons."

      But let us not forget what happened in the aftermath of World War II,
     when the Soviet Union went from wartime ally to Cold War adversary. We
        must be careful that, in our zeal to build the coalition against
     terrorism, we do not mistakenly turn a blind eye to the true nature of
         certain regimes whose long-term interests and intentions remain
                                contrary to ours.

      Of course, we must, and should, take the opportunity to reach out to
     nations that are willing to step up and take concrete steps to help us
        in the fight against terror. Not for several generations has the
         geo-political map of the world been so in flux, as a variety of
     countries decide how they will respond to the events of September 11th
     and President Bush's ultimatum that "either you are with us or you are
                              with the terrorists."

       We want to encourage nations to make the right decisions. President
      Bush is certainly to be commended for the rapid transformation of our
        relationship with Russia ---- and the effort he began long before
      September 11th, but which is finally bearing fruit in the wake of the
      terrorist attacks. Russia's long-term interests clearly lie with the
     West, and President Putin seems to have decided to seize September 11th
     as an opportunity to align Russia more closely with the United States.

     He should be encouraged in this regard. But we must proceed with care.
      For example, the idea of giving Russia a decision-making role within
       NATO ---- including a veto over certain Alliance decisions (as NATO
        Secretary General Lord Robertson suggested the other day) ---- is
       absurd. Russia still has much to prove before being given de facto
                      membership in the Atlantic Alliance.

     We must make clear ---- as President Bush has ---- that we want closer
       cooperation with Russia, and a new relationship that puts Cold War
     animosities behind us. But in building that relationship, we must stand
        firmly behind our intention to build and deploy ballistic missile
       defenses and to scrap the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which
        president Bush rightfully has labeled "antiquated, outdated, and
                                    useless."

        Some are urging the President not to scrap the ABM Treaty, but to
        "stretch" it so that testing, research and development of missile
     defense can go forward while the treaty remains intact. This is not at
      all possible. The ABM treaty severely constrains testing and contains
        no provision allowing treaty violation by mutual consent ---- and
      senior Bush officials have stated repeatedly that the treaty will not
     be violated. President Bush has done an extraordinary job of convincing
       the Russians of the shared threats they and we face. It would be a
      tragic mistake for the United States to have come this far simply to
         now strike a deal that preserved the treaty but allows testing.

       Remember Ronald Reagan standing in Berlin and saying to his Soviet
       counterpart: Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall," so President Bush
     must now tell the Russian President: "Mr. Putin, tear up this treaty!"

        If the United States and Russia are to establish a new strategic
      relationship based on trust, cooperation, and mutual interests, then
        Russia must recognize that robust ballistic missile defenses, to
      protect the United States and our allies from mutual adversaries, are
        no threat to Moscow!! Indeed, such defenses will enhance both our
         nation's security in a world of new and dangerous adversaries.

      I must close. But before I do, let me say this: America is indeed the
      greatest nation on the face of the earth ---- a beacon of freedom for
     the entire world. We have met greater challenges to our freedom before
                        September 11th and defeated them.

     We will do so again. But, in the long run, the greatest emerging threat
      to America may not come from without, but rather from within. I have
     said it often during my years in public life, and I will say it again:
      We will not long survive as a nation unless and until we restore the
       moral and spiritual principles that made America great in the first
                                     place.

     Consider this: On September 11th, 4,000 innocent Americans were killed
      by a foreign enemy. The American people responded with shock, sadness
       and a deep and righteous anger ---- and rightly so. Yet let us not
       forget that every passing day in our country almost 4,000 innocent
      Americans are killed at the hands of so-called doctors, who rip those
       little ones from their mother's wombs. These are the most innocent
      Americans of all ---- small, helpless, defenseless babies. For unborn
                     Americans, every day is September 11th.

         We must never forget that America was attacked by terrorists on
      September 11th because of what America stands for ---- our dedication
      to life, liberty and justice under God. As we defend those principles
         abroad, let us also renew them here at home. As we go after the
     terrorists who committed those unspeakable acts against our people, let
       us, at the same time, get about the task of restoring the moral and
       spiritual foundations on which our country was founded in the first
                                     place.

      No matter how successfully we prosecute the war against terrorism, no
       matter how brilliantly we prepare for the threats of the future, we
       will never be truly secure if we do not return to the principles on
            which America was founded, and which made America great.

     This is already taking place. In the wake of September 11th, flags are
      flying once again, and church pews are overflowing, as Americans who
         had fallen away are returning to prayer and worship. This great
      patriotic and spiritual outpouring across our land is proof that the
     terrorists' plans have backfired. They thought that their attacks would
      frighten and divide us; instead they have drawn us closer to God ----
                               and to each other.

       We must encourage this spiritual rebirth, and nurture it so that it
     becomes another Great Awakening. We must instill in our young people an
     understanding that theirs is a nation founded by providence to serve as
       a shining city on a hill ---- a light to the nations, spreading the
                    good news of God's gift of human freedom.

      This is Hillsdale College's mission! As your founders put it in 1844,
       Hillsdale undertakes its work "grateful to God for the inestimable
     blessings resulting from the prevalence of civil and religious liberty
     and intelligent piety in the land, and believing that the diffusion of
       sound learning is essential to the perpetuity of these blessings."

      My dear friends, you are forming the leaders of the future ---- young
      people who appreciate the truth that the noble history of America was
        fashioned by people who understood that this fledgling nation was
      destined at the outset to be miraculously great because of the broad
      awareness in those days that the Lord was no idle spectator when the
     Founding Fathers, after praying for guidance, steered this new land to
                         the beginning of its greatness.

                            Let us do the same today.

     Thank you, God bless you, and, as Ronald Reagan always said, God bless
                                    America!

                                       ###
        Main |  Committee Info |  Hearings |  Press |  Links |  Majority
                                    Website
