http://www.cpaboard.wa.gov/forms/Default.htm

   Go to Access Washington Go to the Washington State Board of Accountancy
                                    Home

   Home About Us CPA Exam Certification/Licensing Continuing Professional
   Education Firm License Quality Assurance Review Complaints and
   Violations Rules/Policies Important Alerts Frequently Asked Questions
   Forms License Search Forms

   The Washington State Board of Accountancy provides documents in Adobe
   Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) files.   To view and print a PDF
   file, you must have the free Adobe Acrobat Reader loaded on your
   computer.  If you do not have Adobe Acrobat Reader, download the latest
   version directly from the Adobe web site: Get Adobe Acrobat Reader

     CPA Examination
     * License (Effective July 1, 2001, the Board no longer has authority
       to issue CPA certificates)
     * Renewal
     * Reinstatement
     * Continuing Professional Education (CPE)
     * CPA Firm
     * Quality Assurance Review Program
     * Compensation
     * General

   CPA Examination

     Contact CPA Examination Services (CPAES) for applications to take
     the CPA Exam.

     Education Evaluation Worksheet:  (8½" x 11" paper size, 1 page) Use
     this worksheet for self-evaluation of your foreign education
     evaluation and/or U.S. college transcripts before you apply for the
     CPA exam.

   Certificate/License

     License Application - (8
     ½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)  Use this form to apply for a
     Washington CPA license (including by transfer of credits).  NOTE:
     As of July 1, 2001 the Board will no longer issue certificates.  All
     applicants must meet the education, exam, ethics, and experience
     requirements in order to apply for a license.

     Certificateholder License Application - (8
     ½" x 11" paper size, 1 page) If you currently hold a valid
     Washington CPA certificate, use this form to apply for an initial
     license to practice public accounting.

     Application for License of Certified Public Accountant by Interstate
     Reciprocity:  (8½" x 11" paper size, 3 pages)  Use this form to
     apply for a Washington CPA license by reciprocity (based on a
     license issued by another State Board of Accountancy).

     Application for License of Certified Public Accountant by
     International Reciprocity:  (8
     :  (8½" x 11" paper size, 3 pages)  Use this form to apply for a
     Washington CPA license by reciprocity (based on an Board recognized
     accounting credential from another country).

     Experience Affidavit   (8½" by 11" paper size, 7 pages)  Use this
     affidavit to show completion of the work experience requirement.

     Experience Affidavit - Experience Prior to October 1991 (8½" by 11"
     paper size, 2 pages)  Use this affidavit if you are applying for a
     Washington State license via reciprocity and your experience was
     obtained prior to October 1991.

     Authorization for Interstate Exchange of Examination and Licensure
     Information  (8½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)  Use this form to
     transfer conditional exam credit(s) earned from passing all or part
     of the CPA exam from another state to Washington or, for holders of
     a CPA certificate and valid license in another state, to verify
     certificate/license issue date, Uniform CPA Exam grades, ethics
     exam, absence of disciplinary proceedings, and good standing with
     the home state.  Please note, you may also use this form to request
     the Washington State Board of Accountancy to transfer your
     examination or licensure information to another state board.  The
     Washington State Board does not charge a fee for this service.

     Authorization for Exchange of Professional Accounting Credential
     Information for International Reciprocity   (8
     ½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)   Use this form to verify your
     accounting credential (for example, Provincial Institute of
     Chartered Accountants).

     Not currently available - Application for Renewal of Washington
     State CPA License or Certificate  (8½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)
     Use this form to renew your CPA license and/or certificate for the
     three-year period July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2004.

   Reinstatement

     License Reinstatement; (8½" by 14" paper size, 3 pages); Use this
     form to apply for reinstatement of a lapsed, revoked or suspended
     license. (Note, to print 8½" by 14" forms properly, you must set
     your printer settings for legal sized paper.  Click on Acrobat's
     printer icon (NOT your browser's printer icon), choose Properties in
     the Print dialogue box, change Paper Size to legal, and Paper
     Source, if necessary.)

     Application to Return to Previously Held Status as a Licensee; (8½"
     x 11" paper size, 2 pages)  A certificate-holder will use this form
     to return to a previous status as a licensee.  Do not use this form
     if you have never held a license in Washington State or if your
     certificate/license has lapsed.

   Continuing Professional Education (CPE)

     Worksheet  (8½" x 11" paper size, 1 page)
     Use these worksheets to evaluate whether you have met the CPE
     requirements during a reporting period.
     * January 1, 2000 - December 31, 2002 Worksheet
     * January 1, 2001 - December 31, 2003 Worksheet
     *  36 months preceding application for an initial license Worksheet
     * 36 months preceding application for a Washington CPA license by
       interstate or international reciprocity Worksheet

     Waiver Request   (8½" x 11" paper size, 1 page)
     If you believe you are unable to meet the Board's CPE requirements
     and you qualify for an exception, use this form to request a waiver
     to the CPE requirements from the Board.

     Waiver Request--20 Hour Per Year Minimum   (8½" x 11" paper size, 1
     page)
     If you believe you are unable to meet the Board's requirement to
     complete at least 20 hours of CPE during a particular calendar year
     and you qualify for an exception, use this form to file a waiver.

   CPA Firm

     CPA Firm License Application  (8½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)  Use
     this form to register your CPA firm (sole proprietorship,
     partnership, professional service corporation, or limited liability
     company) with the Board.

     CPA Firm License Amendment (8½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)  Use this
     form to notify the Board of:  the admission or departure of an
     owner; any change in the name of the firm; a change in the managing
     licensee of the main office or of any branch office; and/or the
     opening, closing, or relocating of the main office or of any branch
     office.

     Not currently available (8½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages)  CPA Firm
     Renewal - Use this form to renew your CPA firm license (sole
     proprietorship, partnership, professional service corporation, or
     limited liability company).

   Quality Assurance Review Program

     Quality Assurance Review Program - Reviewer Application/Profile
     (8½" x 11" paper size, 1 page)   Use this form to volunteer to
     conduct desk reviews as part of the QAR Program.

   Compensation

     Disclosure Forms - (8½" x 11" paper size, 2 pages) Use these forms
     to provide clients with the required disclosure contained in WAC
     4-25-626.

   General

     Change of Address   Use this form to provide your address change
     notification in writing to the Board.

     Name Change/Wall Document Replacement Affidavit  (8½" x 11" paper
     size, 1 page)  Use this form to change your name and/or replace your
     CPA wall document.

                               [blueline.gif]

    Home | About Us | CPA Exam | Certificate/License | CPE | Firm License
     QAR | Complaints | Rules/Policies | Important Alerts | FAQs | Forms
                               License Search


   Contact the Washington State Board of Accountancy.
   Please read our Disclaimer and  Privacy Statement.
