http://www.fca.gov/FCS-Institutions.htm

        Pictures of Farm Scene

   FCA Homepage About FCA News and Events FCA's Publications Legal
   Information Farm Credit System Institutions

                                   graphic
                             Search FCA homepage

                              FCS-Institutions

   graphic of a button FCS Institutions
                       graphic of a button Description
                       graphic of a button Directory
   graphic of a button Call Reports
                       graphic of a button Instructions
                       graphic of a button Submission Files
                       graphic of a button Submit to FCA
                       graphic of a button View Call Reports
   graphic of a button Corporate
                       graphic of a button Activity
   graphic of a button Farmer Mac
                       graphic of a button Risk-Based Capital
   graphic of a button Resources for the FCS


   FCS Institutions
   The Farm Credit System (System) is a network of borrower-owned lending
   institutions and related service organizations serving all 50 states
   and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. These institutions specialize in
   providing credit and related services to farmers, ranchers, and
   producers or harvesters of aquatic products. Loans may also be made to
   finance the processing and marketing activities of these borrowers. In
   addition, loans may be made to rural homeowners, certain farm-related
   businesses, and agricultural, aquatic, and public utility cooperatives.
   All System banks and associations are governed by boards of directors
   elected by the stockholders who are farmer-borrowers of each
   institution. Additionally, Federal law requires that at least one
   member of the board be elected from outside the System by the other
   directors. System institutions, unlike commercial banks or thrifts, do
   not take deposits.
   On November 1, 2001, the System was composed of the following lending
   institutions:
     * Six Farm Credit Banks (FCBs) that provide loan funds to 12
       Production Credit Associations (PCAs), 77 Agricultural Credit
       Association (ACAs), and 21 Federal Land Credit Associations
       (FLCAs). PCAs make short- and intermediate-term loans, ACAS make
       short-, intermediate-, and long-term loans, and FLCAs make
       long-term loans.
     * One Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), which has the authority of an
       FCB and provides loan funds to four ACAs. In addition, the ACB
       makes loans of all kinds to agricultural, aquatic, and public
       utility cooperatives and is authorized to finance U.S. agricultural
       exports and provide international banking services for farmer-owned
       cooperatives.

   The following System entities also are examined and regulated by FCA:
     * The Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation (Funding
       Corporation) is an entity owned by the System banks that markets
       the securities the banks sell to raise loan funds. System
       institutions obtain the majority of their loan funds through the
       sale of these securities in the Nation's capital markets. These
       securities, chiefly bonds and discount notes, are offered by the
       Funding Corporation through a nationwide group of securities
       dealers and dealer banks.
     * The Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation (Assistance
       Corporation) was created by the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 and
       chartered in 1988. It provided needed capital to the System through
       the purchase of preferred stock issued by System institutions that
       received financial assistance authorized by the Farm Credit System
       Assistance Board. Approximately $1.26 billion in funds were
       provided by the Assistance Corporation, and its authority to raise
       additional funds expired on December 31, 1992. This entity is
       managed by the same board of directors as the Funding Corporation
       and will continue to operate until all funds used to provide the
       assistance are repaid.
     * The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, also known as Farmer
       Mac, provides a secondary market for agricultural real estate and
       rural housing mortgages. It guarantees prompt payment of principal
       and interest on securities representing interests in, or
       obligations backed by, mortgage loans secured by first liens on
       agricultural real estate or rural housing. It also guarantees
       securities backed by the "guaranteed portions" of farm ownership
       and operating loans, rural business and community development
       loans, and certain other loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of
       Agriculture. Farmer Mac also purchases or commits to purchase
       qualified loans or securities backed by qualified loans directly
       from lenders.

   Service corporations organized under Section 4.25 of the Farm Credit
   Act of 1971, as amended, are also examined and regulated by the FCA.
   These include the following:
     * AgVantis, Inc. provides technology-related and other support
       services to the associations affiliated with the Farm Credit Bank
       of Wichita. AgVantis, which was chartered by FCA on August 3, 2001,
       is owned by the bank and its affiliated associations.
     * The Farm Credit Finance Corporation of Puerto Rico uses tax
       incentives offered to investors to provide low-interest funding
       (other than that from the Funding Corporation) to the Puerto Rico
       Farm Credit, ACA.
     * The Farm Credit Leasing Services Corporation (Leasing Corporation)
       provides equipment leasing services to eligible borrowers,
       including agricultural producers, cooperatives, and rural
       utilities. The Leasing Corporation is owned primarily by two Farm
       Credit System banksCoBank, ACB and AgFirst FCB. The other banks are
       nonvoting stockholders.
     * Farm Credit Financial Partners, Inc, provides support services to
       the associations affiliated with CoBank, ACB and the Western Farm
       Credit Bank.
     * The FCS Building Association (FCSBA) acquires, manages, and
       maintains facilities to house FCA's headquarters and field office
       staff. The FCSBA was formed in 1981 and is owned by the Farm Credit
       System banks. The FCA Board oversees the FCSBA's activities on
       behalf of its owners.

     Home | About FCA | News & Events | Publications | Legal Info | FCS
                                Institutions
      Please refer to our Privacy Policy for important information that
                  should be read before proceeding further.
   Some documents contained in this Web site are PDF files and require the
                                   use of
   the Adobe Portable Document Format 4.0 (PDF) viewer, available for free
                          from the Adobe Web site.
         Comments or Questions? Contact FCA Office of Congressional
        and Public Affairs (703) 883-4056 or e-mail info-line@fca.gov
                           Last Updated: 11/09/01
