http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERH/NH518221.HTML

   commerce logo      UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910                         OA/W512

                                                           December 8,
   1982

   TO:                 All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:     Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   82-21

   1. Material Transmitted:

   Weather Service Operations Manual (WSOM), Chapter H-51, Facilities
   Maintenance Program.

   2. Summary:

   This chapter defines program responsibilities, relationships within the
   program, program objectives, and explains the organizational and
   operating t/ procedures to be followed in the management of the overall
   Facilities Maintenance Program.

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   None.

   Richard E. Hallgren
   Director, National Weather Service
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date    Org. Code        NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE    Part
   Chap.
   12-8-82        OA/W512             Operations Manual
                 H         51

                       FACILITIES MAINTENANCE PROGRAM

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Introduction

   2.    Maintenance Objective

   3.    Facilities Maintenance Policy
           3. l    Facilities-Instrument Interface

   4.    Definitions

           4.1    Electronic Equipment
           4.2    Electromechanical and Mechanical Equipment
           4.3    Noninstrumental Equipment
           4.4    Facilities
                   4.4.l     Buildings
                   4.4.2     Structures
                   4.4.3     Improvements
                   4.4.4     Utilities

       4.5     Preventive Maintenance

       4.6     Repair

       4.7     Emergency Maintenance

   5.    Local Station Maintenance

   6.    Facilities Maintenance Organization
           6. l    Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)
                   6.1. l    Emergency Repair Team
           6.2    Regional Engineering Staff
           6.3    Regional Facilities Staff
           6.4    Facilities Maintenance Supervisor (FMS)
           6.5    Facilities Technician (FT)
           6.6    Cooperative Program Managers

   7.    Relationships in the Facilities Maintenance Program
           7.1   Facilities Maintenance Supervisor - Station Manager
   (Meteorologist, Hydrologist, or                    Official in Charge)
           7.2    Facilities Maintenance Supervisor -Chief, Facilities
   Engineering Branch, RH
           7.3    Facilities Maintenance Supervisor -Facilities Technician
           7.4    Facilities Technician - Station Manager
                   (Meteorologist, Hydrologist, or Official in Charge)

   8.    Station Manager Priorities for Maintenance
           8.1    Regional Headquarters Priorities

   9.    Quality Control Inspections

   10.    Emergency Procedures

   11.  Unauthorized Modifications

   12.    Maintenance of Non-Owned Facilities
           12.1    Government-Owned Property

   13.    Detailed Maintenance Procedures
     __________________________________________________________________

   1. Introduction. The purpose of this chapter is to outline the
   operating procedures and organization of the facilities maintenance
   program. The procedures and policies contained herein are to be
   implemented in a manner consistent with, and in accordance with,
   delegated regional responsibilities. Optimum facilities maintenance is
   a required support service to assure effective National Weather Service
   (NWS) programs.

   2. Maintenance Objective. The objective of the National Weather Service
   facilities maintenance program is to assure that all National Weather
   Service facilities are maintained at a level consistent with the needs
   of the NWS and according to good maintenance engineering and economic
   practices.

   3. Facilities Maintenance Policy. The NWS facilities maintenance policy
   is initially expressed in the facilities design policy which requires
   that facilities be designed to provide the lowest ownership costs
   during the useful life of the item. The wide dispersal of National
   Weather Service operations and field maintenance activities requires
   that sound practices and procedures be followed to achieve the maximum
   overall efficiency and effectiveness of the facilities maintenance
   program.

   3.l Facilities-Instrument Interface. The demarcation between
   construction and installation of facilities, and noninstrumental
   equipment and activation of instrumental equipment has often been
   implied and followed to a greater or lesser degree by both facilities
   and electronics technicians. As a specific policy concerning this
   aspect of the engineering program, facilities technicians will perform
   only those duties necessary to install structures and equipment up to
   and including the actual wiring-in of instrumental equipment. Cabling
   for control or data lines will be terminated in appropriate
   distribution panels by facilities technicians. The actual interfacing
   of electronics circuits to the distribution terminal, and activation,
   testing, and calibration of equipment will be the responsibility of the
   electronics technicians. However, as a matter of expediency, the
   responsibility for certain categories of instrumental equipment at
   remote locations may be assigned to facilities or electronics
   technicians or, when approved by the Regional Director, to cooperative
   program managers for complete installation, activation, and
   calibration, as well as maintenance responsibility after commissioning.
   Such assignments will be made only to those personnel who have been
   fully certified through attendance and successful completion of
   requisite equipment courses at the National Weather Service Training
   Center. Specific equipments in the latter category will be delineated
   under separate directives. These will establish the extent of work to
   be performed by certified facilities technicians and the performance
   standards to be met. At the direction of the Regional Director,
   electronics technicians and cooperative program managers may be
   assigned facilities installation and maintenance tasks on a cooperative
   basis.

   4. Definitions. To avoid the possibility of ambiguity regarding terms
   used in NWS maintenance programs, the following are offered as
   clarification.

   4.1 Electronic Equipment. Any instrumental system or device using the
   principle of electronic flow through a vacuum, gas, or semiconductor is
   classified as electronic equipment.

   4.2 Electromechanical and Mechanical Equipment. Any instrumental device
   using electrical or mechanical energy to produce mechanical movement,
   including nonelectronic and mechanical instrumentation (e.g.,
   precipitation gages and river stage equipment); instrumental recorders
   and devices, partially or completely actuated or controlled
   electrically; and certain landline communication devices, as indicated
   by specific directives.

   4.3  Noninstrumental Equipment. Any system or device not covered by 4.1
   and 4.2 above and which does not directly sense, measure, telemeter, or
   record environmental data. Included in this category are items such as
   hydrogen generators; emergency electric power generators; heating,
   ventilating, and air-conditioning systems; and automotive, hoisting,
   and other mechanical equipment.

   4.4 Facilities. Buildings, structures, and other items of real
   property, including land and improvements, utilities, and items of
   noninstrumental equipment defined in 4.3 above.

   4.4.1 Buildings. Special structures for providing sheltered living and
   working space or storage for personnel and property, including living
   quarters, office quarters, laboratories, warehouses, balloon inflation
   shelters, etc.

   4.4.2 Structures. Special forms of facilities wherein structural
   integrity plays a predominant functional role. The term includes
   buildings but is generally used to denote items,such as towers, masts,
   and similar supports; radomes and fiberglass shelters for upper air
   equipment; instrument shelters; instrument foundations; etc.

   4.4.3   Improvements. Facilities provided to improve the utility or
   value of real property, such as roads, walks, and other paved areas;
   fences; signs; lawns and plantings; retaining walls; drainage
   structures and ditches; etc.

   4.4.4 Utilities. The services of heat, ventilation, and air
   conditioning; electric power and lighting; gas; water; sewage disposal;
   and communications. The facilities for production and distribution of
   these services are defined as utility systems and include items such as
   water, sewer, and gas lines; electric power and communication lines;
   electrical substations and emergency power generators; heating and
   air-conditioning equipment, septic tanks; water treatment and storage
   facilities; etc.

   4.5 Preventive Maintenance. Periodic inspection of facilities to
   uncover conditions leading to operational breakdown or serious
   depreciation and the timely action to prevent, adjust, or repair such
   conditions while they are still in a minor stage. Preventive
   maintenance, or PM, is of two types, routine and nonroutine.

       a. Routine Preventive Maintenance. Any routine (scheduled or
   periodic) preventive maintenance procedure. Examples: Mechanical
   inspection of noninstrumental equipment, lubrication, periodic painting
   of radomes, calibrations, etc.

       b. Nonroutine Preventive Maintenance. A nonroutine (unscheduled or
   nonperiodic) preventive maintenance procedure performed as a result of
   evidence which indicates that failure of a facilities item is imminent.
   Examples: Replacement of an electric motor in a heating system when
   bearing noises indicate failure or overheating; replacement of a bent
   drive shaft or gears in a door opener assembly for an upper air
   inflation shelter when the unit produces abnormal noise; etc.

   4.6     Repair. Remedial actions to correct failures and restoration or
   rehabilitation of a facility to such a condition that it may be used
   effectively.

   4.7      Emergency Maintenance. Necessity or crisis actions   required
   to restore operation where failure to do so may possibly result in
   serious injury or loss of life or property, or have a serious negative
   effect upon NWS operations.

   5. Local Station Maintenance. In general the meteorologist in charge
   (MIC) will obtain certain custodial and minor maintenance services from
   local service contractors by purchase orders on an "ad hoc" basis, in
   accordance with applicable regional headquarters (RH) directives. Such
   tasks as painting the wooden instrument shelters, mowing grass, or
   removing snow can be included in this group. In those cases where it is
   not practicable to obtain such services by local procurement, the
   required tasks will be performed by Government employees using tools
   and equipment Provided by the National Weather Service.

   6. Facilities Maintenance Organization. As maintenance activities
   become more complex and widespread, the functions of coordination,
   guidance, and control become increasingly important to reduce costs,
   minimize downtime, and to provide for an orderly and efficient growth.
   It is realized that there is no "best" organizational structure for all
   RH's. The organization must fit the particular technical, geographical,
   and personnel situations involved in order to achieve effective group
   action. The structure presented in the following sections aims to
   provide a clear division of authority, responsibility, and duties with
   the minimum of overlap, taking into consideration specific program
   objectives and policies. As presented, it will be flexible enough for
   modifications to cover changing conditions, such as plant expansion,
   personnel development, and activity fluctuation.

   6.1 Weather Service Headquarters (WSH). The Facilities Engineering
   Branch (FEBH) of the Engineering Division plans, develops, and
   promulgates policies, programs, and general procedures for facilities
   maintenance. The Weather Service Headquarters is responsible for
   ensuring that precision and uniformity of output from environmental
   sensing, processing, and display instruments and systems are achieved.
   The WSH supports the facilities maintenance program in matters of
   engineering, training, logistics, technical assistance, and
   administration.

   6.1.1 Emergency Repair Team. FEBH is a permanent-member of the
   Engineering Division Emergency Repair Team, which is activated during a
   major disaster involving facilities owned or occupied by the National
   Weather Service. This team will prepare recommendations for restoration
   and cost estimates to replace or repair the damaged physical plant.

   6.2 Regional Engineering Staff. The regional engineering staff is
   responsible for implementing regional plans and procedures for
   installing field facilities and structures and maintaining
   environmental sensing equipment required to support National Weather
   Service missions. Under the direction of the regional engineer, it is
   the responsibility of the engineering staff to ensure that optimum
   effectiveness of the regional maintenance Program is achieved.

   6.3 Regional Facilities Staff. The Facilities Engineering Branch, RH
   (FEBR) is the organizational unit primarily concerned with the regional
   management of all facilities maintenance activities. This unit is
   responsible for installation, maintenance, and modification of the
   facilities and structures located in the region and is headed by the
   Chief, Facilities Engineering Branch. The FEBR is responsible for:

       a. Standardization. The standardization of all facilities
   maintenance to conform with technical standards and maintenance
   techniques established by the Weather Service Headquarters.

       b.Work Organization. Determining work and material requirements,
   establishing work schedules, assigning personnel, and coordinating
   itineraries of facilities technicians to assure maximum work
   accomplishment with minimum expense.

       c.  Work Coordination. Coordinating schedules with the electronics
   Engineering staff and with other RH and field staffs for the
   installation and activation of instrumental equipment.

       d. Inspections. Conducting periodic inspections to assure that NWS
   facilities are being maintained at the prescribed level and reporting
   on the trends and condition of the facilities.

       e. Analyzing. Making a thorough analysis of maintenance data
   reports to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of regional
   facilities maintenance programs and providing recommendations to reduce
   unit maintenance demands on personnel and expenditures.

   6.4 Facilities Maintenance Supervisor (FMS). The facilities maintenance
   supervisor operates as a regional headquarters staff assistant and
   exercises management supervision over facilities technicians (FT's)
   assigned to the FEBR. He or she is primarily responsible for reviewing
   and monitoring regional installations to ensure uniformity of
   maintenance levels. He or she must ascertain that adequate skills in
   technically qualified personnel are available to meet program
   requirements. As a regional headquarters staff assistant, he or she
   functions under the direct supervision of the Chief, Facilities
   Engineering Branch, and reports to the latter in both administrative
   and technical matters. Specifically, the FMS functions are:

       a. Conformance. Ensure that regional and National Weather Service
   policies, procedures, and programs pertaining to the facilities
   maintenance program are carefully followed.

       b. Supervision. Exercise supervision over several facilities
   technicians assigned to the region.

       c. Visitation. Personally visit or assure that an authorized
   facilities person completes a visit to each first-order station at
   least once every year, and second-order and other stations, as often as
   necessary, to provide quality control and to keep abreast of facilities
   maintenance needs.

       d. Reporting. Review field data reports, such as facilities
   management reporting system reports and inspection reports, and forward
   this information to appropriate WSH groups by the prescribed means.

       e. Planning. Assist in planning for new equipment and facilities
   scheduled or required for installation in the region, work with and
   assist the FT, and plan to have the FT trained in the maintenance of
   the new facilities in advance of equipment installation.

       f. On-the-Job Training. Provide assistance for the FT's in solving
   the more difficult problems and arrange for on-the-job training as
   necessary.

       g. Formal Training. Recommend formal training for newly assigned
   FT's.

       h. Travel. Coordinate FT travel to provide necessary maintenance
   and/or emergency coverage.

       i. Scheduling. Coordinate facilities maintenance schedules with
   pertinent area electronics supervisors and meteorologists,
   hydrologists, or officials in charge.

   6.5 Facilities Technician (FT). The facilities technician is
   responsible for the performance of assigned preventive maintenance and
   repair of facilities, structures, and noninstrumental equipment. The FT
   is a staff member of the regional headquarters to which he or she is
   assigned. The FT travels as required in the performance of maintenance
   duties set forth in his or her Position description and work
   assignment.

   6.6   Cooperative Program Managers. The cooperative program managers,
   although assigned to the data acquisition staff in the regional
   headquarters, perform a variety of facilities maintenance activities in
   their substation visitation program.

   The installation and maintenance of most substation equipment are
   included in cooperative program managers' assigned responsibilities,
   which are detailed in WSOM Chapters B-17, Substation Management, and
   H-50, Electronic Maintenance Program.

   7. Relationships in the Facilities Maintenance Program. The assignment
   of facilities maintenance supervisors and facilities technicians to the
   regional headquarters staff is for the purpose of maintaining the
   National Weather Service's inventory of facilities, structures, and
   noninstrumental equipment. To achieve maximum effectiveness in the
   Facilities Maintenance Program, the following working relationships are
   established.

   7.l Facilities Maintenance Supervisor  Station Manager (Meteorologist,
   Hydrologist, or Official in Charge). As a staff assistant of the
   regional headquarters, the FMS provides guidance and technical
   assistance to the station manager in connection with local facilities
   maintenance activities, to ensure that they conform with technical
   standards established by the WSH and regional headquarters. The FMS
   will review the station manager's facilities maintenance activities,
   including such items as responsibility for satellite stations,
   scheduled equipment installations, local procurement, maintenance
   accomplishments and needs, and plans for the future.

   7.2 Facilities Maintenance Supervisor - Chief, Facilities Engineering
   Branch, RH. The FMS is under the direct supervision of the Chief, FEBR
   and reports to him or her both administratively and technically. More
   difficult problems concerning facilities maintenance projects will be
   reported to the FEBR for assistance and resolution. The FMS is
   responsible for keeping the FEBR informed of his or her itinerary and
   work plans.

   7.3 Facilities Maintenance Supervisor - Facilities  Technician. The FMS
   provides technical guidance and supervision of the FT to assure
   adherence to the technical standards established by the WSH and thus
   represents the first line of the FT's technical supervision concerning
   maintenance activities. Hence, the FT and FMS communicate directly on
   matters pertaining to facilities maintenance projects. The FMS provides
   on-the-job training, guidance, and assistance to the FT and determines
   need for training based on schedules for new equipment programs.

   7.4 Facilities Technician - Station Manager (Meteorologist,
   Hydrologist, or Official in Charge). While no formal organizational
   relationship exists, the FT will upon arrival at a station meet with
   and brief the station manager on the purpose of his or her visit and
   general scope of work to be accomplished, and thereafter while working
   at the station, keep the station manager informed of his or her
   activities insofar as these activities affect, or have the potential of
   affecting, on-going programs. The station manager is responsible for
   bringing to the attention of the FT deficiencies in station facilities,
   structures, and noninstrumental equipment for the FT's reporting to the
   FMS for possible action. Any action by the FT that would have the
   effect of taking equipment out of service will be coordinated with the
   station manager, who is responsible for the determination of whether it
   is essential that equipment remain in service to fulfill the station's
   mission. It is the responsibility of the FT to advise the station
   manager, where applicable, on the following:

       a. Operational Limitations. Operational limitations,  if any, of
   noninstrumental equipment, facilities, and structures in need of
   maintenance.

       b. Additional Damage. Possible additional damage or failures that
   could result from continued use of the equipment, facility, or
   structure.

       c. Time Factor. Probable downtime required to accomplish repairs.

   8. Station Manager Priorities for Maintenance. The station manager
   will, in connection with the preparation of requests for facilities
   maintenance, assign priorities to facilities requirements at his or her
   station.  However, if emergency facilities maintenance, such as
   restoration of electric power or other vital service, is required, the
   MIC will contact the regional headquarters by the most direct means.

   8.1 Regional Headquarters Priorities. The regional headquarters
   establishes a yearly facilities maintenance program based on an optimum
   mix of resources and requirements. The lack of sufficient funds to
   cover all the stations' requests, together with the prevailing program
   emphasis, may require a reordering of any MIC's priority list;

   9. Quality Control Inspections. Periodic quality control inspections as
   required to assure the viability of the station's facilities
   maintenance program will be made by the FMS or other regional
   engineering personnel. These inspections will consist of on-site
   evaluations of the quality of facilities work performed since the last
   visit and a determination of the additional repairs and/or
   modifications required to properly support the station's operations.
   During quality control inspections or in providing technical assistance
   to stations, the FMS or other regional engineering staff personnel will
   report to the MIC or designated station supervisor upon arrival. The
   MIC will be informed of the purpose of the visit and will provide
   whatever assistance is reasonably required. Upon conclusion of the
   visit, the MIC will be briefed on any work accomplished or on any
   deficiencies noted in the local facilities maintenance activities.
   Facilities deficiencies and maintenance needs observed by other
   regional staff managers while visiting a station should be reported to
   the Chief, Facilities Engineering Branch, RH.

   10. Emergency Procedures. Any time outside the normal workday, the
   facilities technician should be recalled to duty to effect repairs when
   facilities or noninstrumental equipment directly involved in the
   observation of elements concerned with the public safety become
   inoperative or suffer damage to the extent that it could be considered
   hazardous to personnel, other facilities, or equipment. There can be no
   abridgment of the facilities technician's prerogative to spend his or
   her time off duty as he or she likes. He or she should plan to inform
   the FMS, if possible, of periods when he or she will not be available
   for recall so that other arrangements can be made, since he or she is
   not to be considered as "on 24-hour call."

   11. Unauthorized Modifications. Under no circumstances will
   unauthorized modifications or "field engineering" be attempted on
   Weather Service facilities or noninstrumental equipment. The regional
   headquarters has full authority to make temporary modifications to
   restore vital operations during periods of emergency. Proposed changes
   or modifications that have a broad application to NWS facilities or new
   instrumental equipment should be submitted to WSH for review.

   12. Maintenance of Non-Owned Facilities. In general, National Weather
   Service's facilities maintenance responsibility does not include
   facilities and structures owned by others. Exceptions to this general
   approach should be well documented in the lease, permit, or other use
   agreement formats so that there will be no question about the propriety
   of resources being applied to the property of others.

   12.1 Government-Owned Property. In many cases, facilities maintenance
   services will be applied to Federal property installed on land or
   structures owned by others.

   13. Detailed Maintenance Procedures. Specific guidance,criteria, and
   rules for maintenance of individual facilities items and structures are
   contained in Engineering Handbook No. 3, Facilities.

   WSOM Issuance
   82-21 12-8-82
