http://edsitement.neh.gov/lessonplans/portrait_of_hero.html

   [USEMAP:titlebar_new.gif]
   [space.gif]


   Photograph of Sojourner Truth, three-quarter length portrait, standing,
   wearing spectacles, shawl, and peaked cap, right hand resting on cane,
   courtesey of the Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs division
   Sojourner Truth
   Courtesy of The Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
   (American Memory Project)
   [space.gif]
   Home
   [space.gif]
   Lesson Plans
   [space.gif]
   Search
   [space.gif]
   Disclaimer

   [space.gif] Portrait of a Hero
   [space.gif]

   Introduction

   Visit any elementary school playground and chances are you'll see
   children pretending to be heroes from their favorite stories, TV shows,
   or movies. Through such dramatic play, children are free to use their
   imaginations to explore where their abilities can take them, and to
   experience feelings of control, power, and mastery. By building on
   these natural play experiences, we can help students begin to
   understand the true meaning of heroism and how they might start to
   develop heroic characteristics in themselves.

   Through a series of interactive activities, students will explore their
   beliefs about heroes and heroism. They will share names of familiar
   figures they consider to be heroes, and then closely examine their
   reasons for believing each one is a hero. Students will then view
   portraits of heroes from American history, and glean a bit of
   background information on each one. They will identify the heroic
   personality traits and characteristics of each hero. Students will also
   broaden their understanding of what makes a hero, enabling them to
   identify the real-life heroes who surround them each day. By
   introducing students to someone you regard as a personal hero, they
   will recognize that some of the people they know and admire are also
   heroes. Students will share pictures and record reflections of their
   heroes, using these to create a Hero Hall of Fame. Through this
   process, students will begin to learn what it really means to be a hero
   and what characteristics a real hero possesses. Finally, students will
   consider ways they, too, may become everyday heroes.

   Guiding Questions: What is a hero? What does a hero look like? What
   characteristics must someone have to be a hero? Who are some heroes
   from American history, and in what ways were they heroic? Who are some
   famous and not so well- known heroes in the world today? What can they
   teach you about behaving like a hero? Could you be a hero? How?

   Learning Objectives
   After completing the lessons in this unit, students will be able to:
     * understand and define the meaning of the words hero and heroic
     * learn about heroes from U.S. history by observing details in
       pictures and listening to brief biographies of each figure and
       express why they are considered heroes.
     * learn how everyday people can be heroes, and demonstrate an
       understanding of how famous heroes and real-life heroes compare
     * create goals and show-through writing and art-how they believe they
       can become heroes.

   Assessing the Lesson: (Download an example of a rubric for this lesson
   plan, in rich text format.)

   [prepare.gif]
   This lesson will require you to access portraits of five figures from
   United States history through EDSITEment-reviewed Web sites. You may
   share these portraits with students at individual computer stations; by
   assigning small groups to share a number of computers; by means of
   computer-projected images displayed to the whole class; or by printing
   the images and distributing copies of them to students. You need to
   decide which format will work best for you, depending on the
   availability of computers and Internet access in your classroom.
   Click-through directions for accessing the portraits are provided in
   the Presenting Heroes from History activity section, under Preparing
   for the Activity.

   Suggested Activities
   1 Introducing a Real-Life Hero
   2 Who Are Your Heroes?
   3 What Makes a Hero?
   4 Presenting Heroes from History
   5 Is There a Hero in You?
   Extending the Lesson

   Part I

   Lesson 1
   Warm-Up Activity: Introducing a Real-Life Hero

   Select a photograph of a friend, family member, or mentor who is a hero
   to you. Using photo corners or photo glue, mount the photo onto the
   center of a piece of brown construction paper. Use a black marker to
   outline your photo and to trace around the edge of the construction
   paper. Add brown marker lines so that your mat now resembles a "wood
   grain" frame.* Bring the photograph to school and tell students you
   would like them to meet a mystery person who is a hero to you, then
   show them the matted photo. Explain that you will soon tell them about
   your hero, but for now you will display your mystery photo in the
   center of a bulletin board you have pre-covered with craft paper.

   *If you are technology-savvy, you may consider making the frame-and the
   entire Hero Hall of Fame, as described in later
   activities-electronically, using clip-art picture frames and scanned
   pictures.

   Lesson 2
   Who Are Your Heroes?

   Prepare a large chart divided into three columns labeled TV, Movies,
   and Books. Then ask students to brainstorm a list of TV shows, movies,
   and books they enjoy, and record the titles of these in the appropriate
   column. Next, draw a horizontal line beneath each list. Ask students if
   they know of any heroes in these three sources. Record these names
   beneath the corresponding columns. For example, if a child suggests
   that Harry Potter is a hero, record Harry's name under your column
   labeled Books.

   Each time an example is given, ask the student to explain why he or she
   believes the character is a hero. Students may say that Madeline is a
   hero because she's friendly, Mulan is a hero because she's determined,
   and Lance Armstrong is a hero because he won the Tour de France. Next
   to each character's name, use a different color marker to write
   keywords indicating these characteristics and accomplishments.

   Lesson 3
   What Makes a Hero? Developing a Chart Checklist

   At a separate sitting, prepare another chart with each suggested hero's
   name listed down the left-hand side of the page and all the heroes'
   characteristics listed along the top. Leave room at the top for a
   title. (Tip: Feel free to expand this list of characteristics by adding
   some that you believe children would agree their characters share.)
   Briefly review the first chart with your class. Then introduce the
   second chart. As students look on, draw vertical lines down the chart,
   placing each characteristic into a separate column. Read each suggested
   hero's name and make an X mark beneath the characteristics that apply
   to that figure. As you develop your chart, point out that many of the
   figures they think of as heroes share certain characteristics. Title
   your chart "What Makes a Hero?" Your finished chart should resemble the
   one shown here.

                             What Makes a Hero?


                                                  Friendly

                                          Determined

                                                    Brave

   Madeline

                                                                             X


   Mulan

                                                      X

                                          X

                                                    X

   Lance Armstrong

                                                                             X

                                                    X

   Revisiting Your Real-Life Hero

   Draw students' attention once again to the real-life hero displayed on
   the bulletin board. Invite them to guess the person's identity and
   relationship to you. Then tell students the story of why this person is
   a hero to you. Make your story as detailed as possible. If you have any
   supporting photos or documentation, such as letters or keepsakes from
   your hero, share these with the class. Be certain to include lots of
   concrete examples that pinpoint your character's heroic attributes. You
   may also wish to compare and contrast your hero with the students'
   suggested heroes, as well as the heroes from U.S. history (to be
   discussed in the next activity). End your story with a question
   inviting student input about your hero.

   (E.g., "This is a photo of my Aunt Angie. She's a real-life hero to me.
   She can't climb up a building like a superhero, or fly rockets to the
   moon like astronauts. She never wrote a newspaper, was never on a
   winning team, and never led anyone to freedom. She doesn't have big
   muscles, but she has a big heart. When I was six years old, my mother
   broke her leg and couldn't take care of us. Aunt Angie stepped in to
   help. She cooked and cleaned for us. She did our laundry and read over
   my homework. She listened when I was frightened. She took me to visit
   my mother in the hospital. She never complained. When my mother became
   well, Aunt Angie moved back to her own house, but she didn't forget
   about me. She wrote me letters telling me to keep doing my best and be
   brave every day. I saved these letters and will read some of them to
   you over the next few days. Here is a heart-shaped locket she gave to
   me. Inside is a picture of us. Whenever I look at it, I think of all
   she did for us. To this day, my mom says Aunt Angie is a hero because
   she was unselfish and caring. I agree with my mom. What do you think?")

   Add your hero's name to your "What Makes a Hero?" checklist chart. Ask
   your students to help you place X marks next to your hero's name,
   indicating which of the attributes listed across the top of the chart
   help describe your hero. Help students understand that an attribute
   such as bravery can apply to big and small actions. Ask students to
   name any other heroic traits belonging to your hero that are not listed
   on the chart. Add these new characteristics to the top of the chart.
   Then, in addition to adding X marks next to your hero's name, use X
   marks to indicate which other figures on your list share these new
   traits.

   Lesson 4
   Presenting Heroes from U.S. History

   You will need portraits of the following historical figures, which are
   accessible through the EDSITEment-reviewed Web sites (see Preparing for
   the Activity):

     * Benjamin Franklin
     * Chief Joseph
     * Helen Keller
     * Jackie Robinson
     * Sojourner Truth

   Introduce this activity by reviewing the "What Makes a Hero?" chart.
   Tell students they are now going to learn about some special people
   from U.S. history. Explain that after learning a bit about each person,
   they will be able to decide whether or not these people are heroes

   Preparing for the Activity

   Begin by downloading portraits of five figures from U.S. history,
   accessible through EDSITEment-reviewed web sites. Individuals or small
   groups of students may take turns visiting the computer to view these
   portraits. You may also display the images to the whole class, or print
   the pictures and distribute copies for students to keep. Click on each
   of the thumbnails images for larger image.

   A Portrait of Benjamin Franklin, courtesey of the Library of Congress,
         Prints and Photographs Division, Detroit Publishing Company
                              Benjamin Franklin
                    Courtesey of The Library of Congress,
    Prints and Photographs Division, Detroit Publishing Company (American
                               Memory Project)

   Benjamin Franklin: Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston on January 17,
   1706. His father left England with fellow Puritans who were upset with
   the British king, and settled in Boston, where he met Ben's mother.
   Right away, Ben's parents thought he was a genius and encouraged his
   love of reading and writing.

   Ben wrote a book called Poor Richard's Almanac, a guide to getting
   ahead in the world that offered a calendar and quotes about life. It
   was the best-selling book in the colonies, selling 10,000 copies in one
   year. Ben was constantly searching for ways to make things in everyday
   life better. Among his many inventions was the lightning rod, a pole at
   the top of buildings and ships that protects them from being struck by
   lightning.

   Ben guided the openings of a local fire company, library, college
   (called an academy), and hospital-some of which were the first to be
   established in North America. He also represented the 13 colonies in
   debates about government with the British king, helped write the
   Constitution-the fundamental law of the United States, and signed the
   Declaration of Independence.

      Portrait of Chief Joseph, courtesey of Western History/Genealogy
                      Department, Denver Public Library
                                Chief Joseph
               Courtesey Western History/Genealogy Department,
               Denver Public Library (American Memory Project)

   Chief Joseph:
   Chief Joseph was born in Oregon in 1840. He was from the Nez Perce
   group of Native Americans. His Native American name was
   Hin-mah-too-yah-lat-kekt, which means Thunder Rolling Down the
   Mountain. Joseph's father was the chief of his tribe. When his father
   died, young Joseph became the new chief.

   When the U.S. government tried to force Chief Joseph's people to leave
   their land, Chief Joseph said no. He wanted his people to live where
   they had always lived. But when the government threatened to kill his
   people, Chief Joseph decided that they should move.

   Some of the young men in Chief Joseph's tribe still didn't want to
   leave their land, so they started fighting. The Nez Perce people fought
   with the government for a long time, and many people in Chief Joseph's
   tribe were killed.

   Finally, Chief Joseph decided that they shouldn't fight anymore. Too
   many of his people were dying. "I am tired of fighting," he said. "From
   where the sun now stands, I will fight no more forever."

    Photograph of Helen Keller reading Mrs. Calvin Coolidge's lips, with
               her hands, courtesey of the Library of Congress
                    Helen Keller (w/Mrs. Calvin Coolidge)
       Courtesey of the Library of Congress (American Memory Project)

   Helen Keller:
   Helen Keller was born in Alabama in 1880. When she was a baby, she
   became deaf and blind. Because she couldn't see or hear anything, she
   couldn't learn to talk. She lived in darkness and silence.

   Helen was very smart, but no one knew how to teach a child who couldn't
   see, hear, or speak. Helen became angry and stubborn, and her parents
   didn't know what to do.

   When Helen was six years old, her parents found a special teacher named
   Annie Sullivan. Annie taught Helen to spell words with her fingers so
   that she could communicate with other people. In six months Helen
   learned 625 words.

   Helen wanted to learn as much as she could. After learning the finger
   alphabet, she learned a special alphabet called Braille so that she
   could read books. She also learned how to understand people's words by
   putting her hands on their lips when they spoke.

   But all of these things weren't enough for Helen. She wanted to learn
   how to speak with her voice. This was very difficult, and some people
   said she shouldn't even try. But by the time she was sixteen, Helen
   could speak well enough to go to school with sighted and hearing
   children.

   Helen graduated from college when she was twenty-four years old and
   spent the rest of her life trying to make things better for deaf and
   blind people around the world.

      Photograph of Jackie Robinson in a Kansas City Monarchs uniform,
                    courtesey of the Library of Congress
                               Jackie Robinson
       Courtesey of the Library of Congress (American Memory Project)

   Jackie Robinson:
   Jackie Robinson was born in Georgia in 1919. At that time, the southern
   part of the United States was segregated, which means that black people
   and white people were not allowed to go to the same schools, drink from
   the same water fountains, or even play on the same baseball teams.

   Jackie was a very good student and an excellent athlete. After he
   graduated from college, he joined the U.S. Army. When he left the Army,
   he became a professional baseball player. Black players then had their
   own teams, which were called the Negro Leagues. Jackie played for a
   Negro League team called the Kansas City Monarchs.

   Some people felt that it was time for black and white baseball players
   to play on the same team. They had to find someone who was willing to
   be the first black player in the Major Leagues, which is what the white
   teams were called. Jackie said he would do it, even though he knew it
   would make some people angry.

   Jackie started playing for a Major League team called the Brooklyn
   Dodgers in 1947. He became one of the best players in the Major
   Leagues. Soon, other great black players like Willie Mayes and Hank
   Aaron also joined the Major Leagues.

   After he stopped playing baseball, Jackie continued to work for equal
   rights for all Americans. Today, there are players of many skin colors
   and nationalities playing in Major League Baseball-all because Jackie
   Robinson dared to be the first African-American player in the Major
   Leagues.

   Photograph of Sojourner Truth, three-quarter length portrait, standing,
   wearing spectacles, shawl, and peaked cap, right hand resting on cane,
    courtesey of the Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs division
                               Sojourner Truth
    Courtesey of The Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
                          (American Memory Project)

   Sojourner Truth:
   Sojourner Truth was born in New York in 1797. When she was born, her
   name was Isadora Bomefree. Because her parents were slaves, this meant
   that Isadora had to be a slave, too. The white family who owned Isadora
   traded her to another family when she was a child, so she couldn't see
   her parents anymore.

   When Isadora was 30 years old, slavery was outlawed in New York, and
   Isadora became free. But there were still slaves in many other states.
   Isadora wanted to help other slaves become free by telling everyone how
   terrible slavery was. She decided to change her name to Sojourner
   Truth. "Sojourner" is a word for someone who travels. Sojourner chose
   this name because she wanted to travel around the country telling
   people the truth about slavery.

   Sojourner Truth visited many different parts of the United States and
   became very famous for her speeches. Although she didn't know how to
   read or write, she published a book about her life when she was 50
   years old. People who read Sojourner's book or listened to her speeches
   would sometimes cry because they thought she was so brave. Her words
   made people want to help other slaves become free.

   When slavery finally ended in 1865, Sojourner moved to Washington, D.C.
   to help black people get houses, food, and jobs. When she met President
   Abraham Lincoln, he told her that he had heard all about her wonderful
   speeches.

                                     ***

   To begin, give students time to look at each portrait. As you did with
   the mystery photo of your personal hero, ask guiding questions to
   promote student observations. For example, you might ask:

     * What do you notice about this person?
     * Do you know a real or pretend person who looks like this?
     * What exactly do you notice about how the person is dressed? Does
       he/she look like a hero?
     * Do you think the person could be alive today? Why or why not?
     * If you met this person, do you think you would like him or her? Why
       or why not?

   Model observation skills for students by noticing aloud some details,
   and by leaving others for the students to discover.

   Tell students that they will be learning about each of these people.
   Have students use a show-of-hands to vote for the figure they want to
   learn about first. (Tip: One class period will probably allow you
   enough time to discuss two figures, or you may wish to spread this
   activity out over several sessions, discussing one historical figure
   per session.) Read aloud some background information about this
   person's life. (Download a brief reading about each figure, in rich
   text format.)

   After the reading, add the person's name to your chart list of "What
   Makes a Hero?" Have students take turns putting an X mark next to the
   person's name to indicate which of the characteristics listed across
   the chart help describe that person. Ask students to decide if the
   historical figure had any heroic characteristics not yet listed on your
   chart. If so, add these to the chart, then review the list of names to
   see if any of the other suggested heroes share these new traits.

   Repeat this process with the other historical figures, filling in the
   chart as you read about and discuss each one. As you proceed, ask
   students to notice how the heroes on your chart are the same and how
   they differ. It also may be helpful to encourage student groups to act
   out these historical figures' heroic behavior (i.e., have them
   demonstrate what the hero may have looked like, performing one of
   his/her bravest acts).

   Lesson 5
   Creating a Hero Hall of Fame

   Remind students that heroes are not just found in history or in books,
   TV, and movies; people they know can be heroes, too. Ask each student
   to choose a real-life hero they especially admire in their lives. Tell
   students to bring to school a drawing or photograph of their heroes,
   and ask them to be prepared to tell why these people are so special to
   them.

   Remove the photo of your hero in the center of the bulletin board you
   covered with craft paper. Title your display, "Our Real-Life Hero Hall
   of Fame." As children bring photos to school, use photo corners or
   temporary photo glue to mount each one on a piece of construction
   paper. As you did with your hero's photo, use markers to draw a frame
   around each picture and have children use art supplies to decorate each
   frame.

   Then, as students watch, think aloud as you use an index card to record
   a brief descriptive summary of your personal hero. ("Let's see, first I
   need to write my aunt's first and last names here, and then I'll write,
   'This is my Aunt Angie. She's a hero to me because she took care of me
   when my mother broke her leg. She taught me about caring and giving.'
   Then I'll sign my name here so everyone will know who this picture and
   card belong to.") Display the card beneath the photo of your hero. Then
   help students develop similar cards to display with the pictures of
   their heroes. (Younger children may dictate their ideas for you to
   write.) Encourage students to name specific heroic characteristics that
   help describe their real-life heroes.

   As children complete their cards, add them-along with the framed
   pictures-to your Hero Hall of Fame display. Provide class time for each
   student to present his or her real-life hero to the rest of the class.
   Use these presentations as an opportunity to help students conclude
   that heroes are not always famous and that some of our greatest
   real-life heroes might be known only to their families and friends. You
   may consider recording student presentations so that you can later
   share them, along with the Hero Hall of Fame, with parents and other
   students.

   Lesson 6
   Is There a Hero in You?

   Ask each student to recall a heroic trait he or she admires in his or
   her real-life hero. Have students think about how they might begin to
   behave in these same ways. For example, if a student says his real-life
   hero was kind, ask that student for some specific ways he might become
   kinder himself. (Tip: Use this process to emphasize the small ways
   children can be heroic-for example, by making a special card for
   someone who is sick, or by speaking up if one child is hurting the
   feelings of another.) Offer students drawing paper preprinted with the
   sentence starter, " I can behave like my real-life hero
   when_________________________." Help students complete the sentence and
   then ask them to use the rest of the page to illustrate their ideas.
   After sharing the pages aloud in class, display the pages as part of
   your Hero Hall of Fame display. Later, bind the pages into a class book
   of "Ways I Can See a Hero in Me."

   Extending the Lesson
   After reviewing all that they've learned about heroes and heroism, help
   your class develop definitions of the words hero and heroic. Compare
   these definitions with their ideas about heroes at the beginning of
   your study. Ask, "What have you learned about what it means to be a
   hero? How have your ideas about heroism changed from when we began this
   study to now?"

   Sharing books and stories about heroes and heroism is a natural way for
   you to extend the lesson on heroes. Classic children's literature
   offers a wealth of unlikely but inspiring heroes. A mother bunny, a
   retired lighthouse, a timid bull, an aging steam shovel, or a
   well-loved stuffed animal are just a few of the protagonists from which
   you might choose. Have students identify heroic figures from their
   favorite books and discuss the qualities that make these characters
   heroic.

   Students may then invent their own heroic characters and write original
   stories about them. Older students may draw upon recent reading
   assignments for inspiration to write and illustrate picture books
   featuring heroes of their creation. Younger students may listen to a
   story, then draw a series of pictures featuring a hero of their own
   creation They can also write or dictate sentences explaining each
   picture. See the Resource List below for a list of suggested titles.

   Links to EDSITEment Participating Websites
   American Memory Project (Library of Congress)
   National Portrait Gallery
   NYPL Digital Schomburg

   Other Resources:

   The following works of children's literature feature a wide variety of
   inspiring heroes:
   The Country Bunny and the Little Gold Shoes, written by Dubose Heyward
   and illustrated by Marjorie Flack (Houghton Mifflin Co., 1999)
   The Little Engine That Could, written by Watty Piper and illustrated by
   George Hauman and Doris Hauman (Penguin Putnam, 1999)
   The Little Red Lighthouse and the Great Gray Bridge, written by
   Hildegarde H. Swift and illustrated by Lynd Ward (Harcourt Children's
   Books, 1974)
   Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile, written and illustrated by Bernard Waber
   (Houghton Mifflin Co., 2000)
   Make Way for Ducklings, written and illustrated by Robert McCloskey
   (Penguin Putnam, 1999)
   The Story of Ferdinand, written by Munro Leaf and illustrated by Robert
   Lawson (Penguin Putnam, 1993)
   Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, written and illustrated by Virginia
   Lee Burton (Weston Woods Studios, Inc.)
   The Velveteen Rabbit, written by Margery Williams and illustrated by
   William Nicholson (Morrow/Avon, 1999)
   [space.gif] [space.gif]
   Subject Areas

   History & Social Studies: United States
   Literature & Language Arts: Biography
   Art & Culture: Visual Arts
   [space.gif]
   Grade Levels
   Grades K-2
   [space.gif]
   Time Required
   Introducing a Real-Life Hero and Who Are Your Heroes?- One 35-minute
   session
   What Makes a Hero?- One 35-minute session
   Presenting Heroes from U.S. History- Two or more 35-minute sessions
   Is There a Hero in You?- One 35-minute class period
   Extending the Lesson- yearlong, ongoing activity
   [space.gif]
   Skills
   • 1. Vocabulary
   • 2. Observing and Describing
   • 3 Comparing and Contrasting
   • 4. Interpreting Written and Visual Information
   • 5. Artistic Interpretation
   • 6. Artistic Expression

   Standards Alignment
   National Council For the Social Studies
   2.  Time, Continuity, and Change—Social studies programs should include
       experiences that provide for the study of the ways human beings view
       themselves in and over time, so that the learner can: (more)
   4.  Individual Development and Identity—Social studies programs should
       include experiences that provide for the study of individual
       development and identity, so that the learner can:(more)
   [space.gif]
   NCTE/IRA List of Standars for the English Language Arts
   1.  Students read a wide range of print and non-print texts to build an
       understanding of texts, of themselves, and of the cultures of the
       United States and the world; to acquire new information; to respond to
       the needs and demands of society and the workplace; and for personal
       fulfillment. Among these texts are fiction and nonfiction, classic and
       contemporary works. (more)
   5.  Students employ a wide range of strategies as they write and use
       different writing process elements appropriately to communicate with
       different audiences for a variety of purposes. (more)
   8.  Students use a variety of technological and information resources
       (e.g., libraries, databases, computer networks, video) to gather and
       synthesize information and to create and communicate knowledge. (more)
   11. Students participate as knowledgeable, reflective, creative, and
       critical members of a variety of literacy communities. (more)
   12. Students use spoken, written, and visual language to accomplish
       their own purposes (e.g., for learning, enjoyment, persuasion, and the
       exchange of information). (more)
   [space.gif]
   Curriculum Standards for the Arts
   1.  Understanding and applying media, techniques, and processes (more)
   3.  Choosing and evaluating a range of subject matter, symbols, and
       ideas (more)
   [space.gif]
   View your state’s standards [space.gif]
   [space.gif]
