http://ccfc.ca.gov/stateinfo.htm


   [calbar.jpg]

[newblocks1.gif]

                                           State Commission Info

                                                                                                        [newlogo1.gif]


   Read the most current CCFC information and find the latest additions to
   our website
                         What Prop 10 is all about!
     CCFC Background, Programmatic, Legal, Administrative, Legislative &
   Employment Information
         Your path to information related to the County Commissions
         State Commission Meetings Calendar, Minutes and Highlights
             Newsletters, Brochures and other printed materials
               CCFC Funding Opportunities, RFPs and Contracts
                    Find CCFC Audits and Annual Reports
      CCFC Research & Program Evaluation, Effective/Emerging Practices
              Various links & resources to parenting websites
            Press Releases from CCFC (In Spanish when available)

                                 [Web F.A.Q]

                                  [SITEMAP]

                             Get Acrobat Reader

   Commissioners
   Click on the above link to view the list of the commissioners and their
   bios.

   Commission Staff
   Click on the above link to view the CCFC Staff Directory.

   Kit For New Parents
   Click on the above link to view the Kit for New Parents area.

   Advisory Committee on Diversity
   The advisory committee was formed from the CCFC's commitment to
   Diversity.  Click the above link to see its minutes and agendas.

   Legislative Issues
   This site provides detailed information regarding legislative bills
   related to children and families and being tracked by CCFC.  It
   includes summary descriptions for all bills and bill analyses and
   correspondence for bills for which CCFC has taken a formal position.

   Proposition 10 Facts
   This page lists the background, funding facts and accomplishments of
   Prop 10.

   FAQ sheet
   Some frequently asked questions about the proposition.

   Guidelines Document
   The CCFC Guidelines provide resources and guidance for County
   Commissions in developing their strategic plans.  The above link is to
   a .pdf version of the guidelines.
   Objectives and Priorities
   The CCFC Priorities and Objectives document provides an overview of the
   State Commissions philosophy, role, objectives and priorities that will
   guide the efforts of the Commission.  Click on the link above for a
   .pdf document for the fiscal year 2000-2001 objectives and priorities.

   The Children and Families Act
   The Children and Families Act governs the CCFC.  Click on the above
   link for its full text.

   Attorney General Opinion on Supplementation vs. Supplantation

   CCFC By-laws
   The State Commission By-laws.

   The Bagley-Keene Act
   CCFC operates under the Bagley-Keene Open Meeting Act.  This Act
   requires most state boards, or commissions, or similar multimember
   bodies of the state to conduct open and public meetings for all actions
   and deliberations. For the complete text of the Act, click on the link
   above.

   The Brown Act
   The purpose of the Brown Act is to ensure actions of public agencies
   are taken openly and their deliberations are conducted openly.  Click
   on the above link for the complete text.

   Job Postings
   A listing of current job opening's at the State Commission level and
   County Commission level.
