http://www1.stpaul.gov/mayor/committeeinfo/

   [INS: The City of Saint Paul :INS]

                       [wedge.gif] Citizen Committees

                               [committee.gif]

   Mayor Randy Kelly is seeking applicants for the Public Housing Agency:
     Housing Authority Committee. City residency is a requirement. Click
     here to obtain an application. For additional questions or inquires
      please contact Mark Engebretson at 651-266-8533 or e-mail him at
                      mark.engebretson@ci.stpaul.mn.us.

        Want to become more involved within the Saint Paul community?

    The committees serve a wide range of needs and interests. Individuals
     interested in serving on these committees may obtain an application
   from Mayor Kelly’s Office, 390 City Hall, 15 West Kellogg Boulevard, or
                by contacting Kurt Schultz at 651-266-8512 or
                        kurt.schultz@ci.stpaul.mn.us
          ________________________________________________________

      You can download the application for the citizen committees here.
      Applications are always accepted for all committees. (The online
            application requires the free Adobe Acrobat Reader.)
     * Affirmative Action Advisory Committee
     * Advisory Committee on Aging
     * Saint Paul Airport Relations Council (SPARC)
     * Bicycle Advisory Board
     * Business Review Council
     * Capitol Area Architectural Planning Board
     * Compete Saint Paul Board
     * Police Civilian Review Commission
     * Saint Paul Long-Range Capital Improvement Budget Committee
     * Saint Paul Civil Service Commission
     * Saint Paul Civil Service Commission -- Alternates
     * District Energy St. Paul, Inc. Board of Directors
     * Fair Housing Council
     * Minneapolis/St. Paul Family Housing Fund Board of Directors
     * Minnesota Film Board
     * Food and Nutrition Commission
     * Saint Paul-Ramsey County Health Services Advisory Committee
     * Heritage Preservation Commission
     * Housing Authority
     * Saint Paul Human Rights Commission
     * Ramsey County League of Local Government
     * Mayor’s Advisory Committee for People With Disabilities
     * Metropolitan Aircraft Sound Abatement Council (MASAC)
     * Metropolitan Airports Commission
     * Minnesota Landmarks Board of Directors
     * Neighborhood Advisory Committee
       [Hubert H. Humphrey Job Corps Center]
     * Saint Paul Neighborhood Network
     * Neighborhood Sales Tax Revitalization Program (STAR)
     * New Americans Advisory Committee
     * Our Fair Carousel Board
     * Overnight Shelter Board
     * Saint Paul Parks and Recreation Commission
     * Saint Paul Planning Commission
     * Saint Paul Port Authority
     * Saint Paul Public Housing Agency (PHA)
     * Ramsey Action Program
     * RiverCentre Authority
     * Saint Paul Riverfront Corporation
     * Truth in Sale of Housing Board of Evaluators
     * Board of Water Commissioners
     * Water Management Organizations (WMO)
       [Lower Mississippi and Middle Mississippi Water Management
       Organizations]
     * City-County Workforce Investment Board
     * Youth Fund Board
     * Board of Zoning Appeals
     __________________________________________________________________

                            Boards and Committees

                    AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE

    The Committee monitors the implementation of the City’s Affirmative
   Action Program, selection procedures and recruitment efforts and makes
          recommendations regarding the same to elected officials.

       For further information, contact Pamela Kelly at 651-266-6477.

                         ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON AGING

     The Committee is charged with researching and advising the city on
    issues that affect Saint Pauls older population. It examines current
    city services and programs and submits recommendations to the Mayor.
     The Committee advises the Mayor regarding City ordinances affecting
    older residents, advocates for the rights of the elderly and works to
     improve intergenerational opportunities in the city. The committee
   seeks to promote public understanding of the needs and contributions of
      Saint Pauls older citizens based upon the Mayors belief that our
      elderly residents are a great asset to the city. The committee is
       composed of 15 members--nine of whom must be 55 years or older.
          Residency is not required. Members serve two-year terms.

          For more information, contact Cathy Hare at 651-266-6365.

                    SAINT PAUL AIRPORT RELATIONS COUNCIL

   The Airport Relations council is charged with listening to the concerns
     of the citizens of Saint Paul and to advise the Mayor and the City
       Council on issues pertaining to both the Minneapolis/Saint Paul
   International Airport AND the Saint Paul Downtown/Holman Field Airport
        that may have an impact on the City. The Committee will make
   recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council to determine the best
     course of action the City should take in order to have its concerns
       addressed by airport officials, the state legislature or other
        government and non-government bodies prior to development and
   implementation of airport policies that affect the City of Saint Paul.
    Special attention shall be paid to, but not limited to issues dealing
                                    with:
     * flight patterns responsible for airport noise/airport
       safety/pollution;
     * runway expansion;
     * noise abatement programs;
     * and land use/rental car lots.

    The committee is composed of 23 members, and are selected as follows:
     * One representative from the airport industry;
     * one representative from the Metropolitan Airports Commission;
     * eight representatives from District Councils 3, 4, 8, 13, 14, 15,
       16, and 17, which represents one member from each district;
     * four at-large representatives from the City of Saint Paul;
     * three representatives from the Highland/Macalester Groveland areas;
     * three representatives from the Dayton’s Bluff area; and
     * two representatives from the environmental advocacy community.

   Members serve three, two and one year appointments or until a successor
     is appointed. Commission will be established for a term of 3 years,
   which time Council will consider an extension of its term. Meetings are
    held the 3rd Monday of each month. Every other meeting will be during
                               evening hours.

                           BICYCLE ADVISORY BOARD

   The Bicycle Advisory Board was established to provide ongoing technical
   and educational advice to ensure safe bicycling in the City. The Board
     works on parking facility development, a continuing bicycle safety
   education program, promotion of citywide events such as “Bike to Work
  Week” and “Citizens Bike Tour,” and encouragement of bicycle commuting.
    City residency is required. The Board meets on the 1st Tuesday of the
     month, 4:30 p.m., at the West Seventh Street Community Center (265
                               Oneida Street).

     For more information, contact Greg Reese at 651-488-7291, Extension
                                    306.

                        BUSINESS REVIEW COUNCIL (BRC)

    The BRC reviews regulations and ordinances, makes recommendations for
     changes, and works to improve communications between businesses and
     neighborhoods, especially the citizen participation groups. The BRC
     meets on the 1st Thursday of the month, at 7:30 a.m., in the lower
    level of City Hall, 15 W. Kellogg Boulevard. Members shall primarily
    represent businesses (at least 75%), but members shall also represent
     labor, neighborhoods, and city enforcement staff. Residency is not
                                  required.

       For further information, contact Roger Curtis at 651-266-9013.

                  CAPITOL AREA ARCHITECTURAL PLANNING BOARD

   This ten-member board’s role is: (1) to preserve the integrity of the
     Capitol, the buildings immediately adjacent to it, and the Capitol
   grounds; (2) to enhance the open spaces within the capitol area; (3) to
      develop proper approaches to the Capitol area for pedestrians and
    traffic; and (4) to establish a flexible framework for growth of the
      Capitol buildings which will be in keeping with the spirit of the
                              original design.

         Meetings are held at the call of the chair. The board meets
    approximately 5-6 times a year. For more information, contact Capitol
          Area Architectural Planning Board staff at 651-296-1162.

                          COMPETE SAINT PAUL BOARD

    The Committee monitors the implementation of the City’s Affirmative
   Action Program, selection procedures and recruitment efforts and makes
    recommendations regarding the same to elected officials. For further
   information, contact Pamela Kelly at 651-266-6477. Managed competition
     is a process that ensures that taxpayers will receive high-quality
      services at the best possible price. It offers City employees an
   environment to fairly compete with the private sector for the delivery
        of those services. It is intended to facilitate City employee
     participation in a process that will ultimately result in gains in
    productivity and efficiency for Saint Paul taxpayers, as well as cost
                                  savings.

       The process may lead to the negotiation of managed competition
    contracts between the City and private contractors. This ordinance is
    intended to set forth requirements and procedures to be followed when
     opening a City service to the managed competition proposal process.

   The Board will consist of 7 members who shall be appointed by the Mayor
      and approved by the City Council. The duties and powers include:
    advising the Mayor and City Council; reviewing performance plans and
   managed competition requests for proposals, and initiating performance
                                   plans.

   For further information, contact Mark Engebretson in the Mayors Office,
                              at 651-266-8533.

                      POLICE CIVILIAN REVIEW COMMISSION

   The commission shall review materials and reports on all investigations
    of complaints concerning members of the Saint Paul Police Department
       regarding alleged acts of excessive force, inappropriate use of
     firearms, discrimination as defined in Chapter 183.02, poor public
   relations and other complaints that may be referred to it by the mayor
    and/or chief of police. Residency and graduation from the Saint Paul
                   Citizen’s Police Academy are required.

            For additional information, please call 651-292-3583.

      SAINT PAUL LONG-RANGE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT BUDGET COMMITTEE (CIB)

       The CIB Committee reviews and ranks all proposals for physical
    improvements to public land and buildings. The Committee recommends a
        bi-annual budget to fund capital improvements such as street
   reconstruction, park improvements, and the renovation of libraries and
   recreation centers. The Committee also reviews all proposed amendments
        to the approved budget. The 18 members on the Committee serve
    three-year terms. City residency is required. The Committee meets on
     the 2nd Thursday of each month for approximately two hours, in City
            Hall, 15 W. Kellogg Boulevard, Room 42 (Lower Level).

         For more information, contact Eric Willems at 651-266-8549.

                     SAINT PAUL CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

     The Commission works to uphold the merit system for City and School
   District employees. It also hears employee grievances and investigates
   complaints of discrimination or bias in job evaluations, discriminatory
     actions and wage administration. Each of its three members serves a
       six-year term. City residency is required. Three alternates are
    appointed to the Commission. The Commission meets at the call of the
                                   Chair.

      For further information, contact Mark Robertson at 651-266-6471.

               SAINT PAUL CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION ALTERNATES

   The Civil Service Commission works to uphold the merit system for City
    and School District employees. It also hears employee grievances and
    investigates complaints of discrimination or bias in job evaluations,
    discriminatory actions and wage administration. Three alternates are
      appointed. Each of its three members serves a six-year term. The
   Commission meets at the call of the Chair. City residency is required.

      For further information, contact Mark Robertson at 651-266-6471.

             DISTRICT ENERGY ST. PAUL, INC., BOARD OF DIRECTORS

     The Board oversees the budget and operation of District Energy St.
     Paul, Inc. This is a non-profit corporation that provides customers
    with hot water district heating via an underground pipe system in the
    downtown, Capitol, and surrounding areas. There are seven members who
     serve staggered three-year terms. The Mayor of Saint Paul has three
                                 appointees.

    The Board meets monthly. For more information, contact Trudy Sherwood
                              at 651-297-8955.

                            FAIR HOUSING COUNCIL

    The Fair Housing Council shall advise the City in its ongoing work to
      identify and overcome unlawful bias through testing, enforcement,
      planning, education and outreach. The Fair Housing Council shall
   monitor and evaluate the City’s progress on an annual basis. It shall
   present its findings for inclusion in the Housing Action Plan. The Fair
   Housing Council shall make such recommendations as may be necessary and
     proper to fulfill the plan and meet objectives towards building an
                            inclusive community.

     The Council is comprised of 11 members who also serve as the Human
       Rights Commission. They represent the private sector, community
    agencies, the Minnesota Fair Housing Center and City government. The
      Chair shall be appointed by the Mayor. Saint Paul residency is a
                                requirement.

      For further information, contact Tyrone Terrill at 651-266-8964.

         MINNEAPOLIS/ST. PAUL FAMILY HOUSING FUND BOARD OF DIRECTORS

     The Family Housing Fund of Minneapolis and Saint Paul is a private,
    non-profit corporation created in 1980 to help bridge the gap between
    housing that low-income people need and housing they can afford. The
    Fund is a partner with city governments, neighborhood groups, private
   for-profit and non-profit organizations. The Fund and its partners work
   to strengthen neighborhoods and maintain the vitality of the cities by
    breaking the barriers that prevent families from having safe, decent,
                              affordable homes.

        For further information, contact Tom Fulton at 612-375-9644.

                            MINNESOTA FILM BOARD

     The Film Board’s mission is to make Minnesota one of the top five
   markets in the United states for quality motion picture and television
   production. The Board brings out-of-state production companies to shoot
    in Minnesota, and provides film and video production services to the
                       Minnesota production industry.

     Meetings are at noon on the third Thursday of the month at the Film
      Board’s offices, Suite 460, 401 North third Street, Minneapolis.

                        FOOD AND NUTRITION COMMISSION

    The Commission works to refine and implement the City's food policy.
     The Commission promotes the availability and quality of an adequate
   food supply for Saint Paul citizens.It also monitors the safety of the
    food supply and attempts to inform the public of programs and avenues
      of assistance. The Commission is composed of 11 members who serve
   3-year terms. The Commission meets every other month on the 4th Tuesday
                      of the month, from 4:30-6:00 p.m.

        For more information, contact Richard Ragan at 651-266-2454.

         SAINT PAUL-RAMSEY COUNTY HEALTH SERVICES ADVISORY COMMITTEE

    The Committee advises Ramsey County and City Boards of Health and the
    Saint Paul-Ramsey County Public Health Department on community health
   needs or problems. The Committee also reviews the Public Health budget.
   The Committee meets the 1st Wednesday of every month, at 5:30 p.m., at
   the Saint Paul-Ramsey County Public Health Building (Library), located
     at 555 Cedar Street. Terms are two years. Health service providers,
    consumers and workers are encouraged to apply. City residency is not
                                  required.

        For more information, contact Richard Ragan at 651-266-2454.

                      HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION

      The Commission hold hearings and makes recommendations on areas,
   buildings or districts to be designated as heritage preservation sites.
    The Commission usually meets the 2nd and 4th Thursdays of each month,
     at 5:00 p.m. Once a heritage preservation site is designated by the
       City Council, the Heritage Preservation Commission reviews all
           applications for city permits for exterior alteration.

     City residency is required. For further information, please contact
                      Aaron Rubenstein at 651-266-9078.

                              HOUSING AUTHORITY

       The Housing Authority has seven members. Residency is required.

    The board usually meets on the third Wednesday of every month at 9:00
     a.m. at the PHA Office, 480 Cedar Street, Suite 600, Saint Paul, MN
                                   55102.

                     SAINT PAUL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION

    Membership consists of 11 members, appointed by the Mayor, who serve
      3-year terms. The Commission has the power to hear and determine
      discrimination complaints. The Commissioners serve in an advisory
    capacity to the Human Rights Director and determine if a violation of
   the Human Rights Ordinance has occurred. This Commission also serves as
            the Fair Housing Council. City residency is required.

      The Commission meets on the 2nd Tuesday of the month at 6:00 p.m.
                           Meeting locations vary.

        For more information, contact Tyrone Terrill at 651-266-8964.

                  RAMSEY COUNTY LEAGUE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT

    since its creation in 1963, the RCLLG’s primary purpose has been to
    increase the efficiency and economy of public services by increasing
   the cooperation among the local government. Encourage Ramsey County and
    all constituent communities to become more active in the legislative
                                  process.

   Meetings are held on the third Wednesday of the month from 7:30 to 9:00
                                    p.m.

          MAYOR’S ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES

                        Web Site with meeting minutes

    The Committee advises the Mayor and City Council on problems, issues,
      and opportunities facing people with disabilities. The Committee
   specifically focuses on issues related to employment, public education
   and accessibility. The Committee meets on the 3rd Tuesday of the month,
   from 6:00-8:00 p.m., at City Hall, 15 West Kellogg Boulevard, Room 42-A
                               (Lower Level).

      For more information, contact Roger Schwagmeyer at 651-266-8891.
                         Resisdency is not required.

            METROPOLITAN AIRCRAFT SOUND ABATEMENT COUNCIL (MASAC)

     MASAC is a private, non-profit organization, with 38 voting members
        comprised of an equal number of citizens and airline industry
    representatives dedicated to the control and alleviation of aircraft
     noise around the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP).

   Since its inception in 1969, MASAC has served advising the Metropolitan
      Airports Commission (MAC), evaluating established noise policies,
   recommending and instituting new policies, and studying noise abatement
    programs in use around the world. MASAC was the first noise abatement
     program in the county. Its unique format has served as a model for
   other noise control groups around the world, with the goal of reducing
    aircraft noise, as well as increasing public awareness and knowledge
   surrounding the issue. There are three general objectives of MASAC: (1)
     study and evaluation of complaints from neighboring residents, (2)
     realization of an effective noise abatement program at MSP, and (3)
                   conduct a program of public education.

    MASAC meetings are open to the public and held the fourth Tuesday of
                           the month at 7:30 p.m.

      For additional information, call the MASAC Secretary at 726-8141.

                      METROPOLITAN AIRPORTS COMMISSION

       The MAC’s purpose is to oversee operation of the airports. The
                Commission meets once a month at the airport.

                   MINNESOTA LANDMARKS BOARD OF DIRECTORS

      The Board’s purpose is to maintain Landmark Center as a historic
     landmark. It holds scheduled meetings no less than once a quarter.

                       NEIGHBORHOOD ADVISORY COMMITTEE

   The Committee fosters communication between the Hubert H. Humphrey Job
     Corps Center and the adjacent community. The Committee reviews the
   operation of the Job Corps Center and addresses concerns raised by the
                                neighborhood.

   The Committee meets on the 2nd Thursday of each month, at 7:00 p.m., at
   the Job Corps Center at 1480 N. Snelling Avenue. For more information,
              contact Charlotte Strong, 651-642-1133, Ext. 143.

                   SAINT PAUL NEIGHBORHOOD NETWORK (SPNN)

    The Mayor appoints three members to the 15-member Board of the Saint
     Paul Neighborhood Network, formerly known as Cable Access St. Paul.
       Board members set policy for this non-profit organization which
    produces community-based television programs and oversees public and
    educational access to the cable television system in Saint Paul. SPNN
   is looking for people who can provide leadership and have knowledge and
      skills in the areas of community relations, promotions, planning,
    finances and general business or non-profit management. Residency is
                                not required.

         For more information, contact Holly Hansen at 651-266-8875.

            NEIGHBORHOOD SALES TAX REVITALIZATION (STAR PROGRAM)

   On July 20, 1994, the City Council established, by resolution, a Board
    to oversee the Neighborhood Sales Tax Revitalization (STAR) program.
   This program, funded through the Citys 1/2-cent sales tax, awards loans
     and grants for capital improvements to applicants through an annual
                            competitive process.

    State legislation has modified the composition of the Board since it
     was originally established. Currently, the Board is composed of 17
      Saint Paul residents who represent each of the Citys 17 Planning
     Districts and who bring expertise from both the public and private
                        sectors. Residency Required.

      For more information, please contact Bob Hammer at 651-266-6693.

                      NEW AMERICANS ADVISORY COMMITTEE

      The Committee, established in 1990, is charged with promoting the
      dignity and self-sufficiency of new Americans in Saint Paul. The
   Committee researches issues affecting new Americans, identifies needs,
     surveys and evaluates existing services and promotes community-wide
    awareness and understanding of the cultures, needs and issues facing
                         Saint Paul's new Americans.

           For more information, contact Cha Vang at 651-266-8516.

                           OUR FAIR CAROUSEL BOARD

   The Board’s mission is to restore, maintain, and operate the Cafesjian
     Carousel, located in Como Park. The Board is made up of twenty-five
     members, three of whom are appointed by the Mayor. The Board meets
   quarterly on the 2nd Thursday of the months of January, April, July and
        October. Operating committees are at the call of the chairs.

     The minimum time commitment is four to five hours a month. For more
              information, contact Peter Boehm at 651-645-9253.

                           OVERNIGHT SHELTER BOARD

   The Board was established in 1985 to advise the Mayor and City Council
     regarding the problem of homelessness in Saint Paul. It determines
   whether Saint Paul has an adequate supply of emergency shelter beds. It
       also recommends programs and plans for improving shelter beds.

    The Board is composed of 18 members who serve 3-year terms. Meetings
   are held monthly and require 2-3 hours per month. For more information,
                     contact Steve Rice at 651-266-6008.

                 SAINT PAUL PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION

        The Commission advises the Mayor and City Council on policies
   concerning the programming, maintenance, development and acquisition of
   the Citys parks and recreational facilities. The Commission consists of
    nine members who serve three-year terms. City residency is required.
      The Commission meets on the 2nd Wednesday of the month, from 6:30
                    p.m.-9:30 p.m., at various locations.

        For more information, contact Mike Rossberg at 651-266-6447.

                       SAINT PAUL PLANNING COMMISSION

   The Commission advises elected officials on municipal planning matters.
    These range from rezoning to the development of long-term studies for
          housing, economic development, neighborhood preservation,
              transportation, and other issues facing the city.

    The Commission meets every second and fourth Friday of each month, at
    8:30 a.m. The Commission consists of 21 members who serve three-year
       terms. For more information, contact Ken Ford at 651-266-6577.

                          SAINT PAUL PORT AUTHORITY

      The Port Authority, originally established to administer the Port
        Authority of Saint Paul and develop marginal lands along the
    Mississippi River for business and industry, has expanded to act as a
   citywide development agench which generates its own revenues and funds
        its own budget. It is composed of seven members--five citizen
       representatives, and two City Councilmembers. Residency is not
    required. Meetings are held on the 4th Tuesday of the month, at 2:00
                          p.m. Terms are six years.

       For further information, contact Ken Johnson or Tom Collins at
                                651-224-5686.

                   SAINT PAUL PUBLIC HOUSING AGENCY (PHA)

    The PHA Board has seven members, all of whom must live in the City of
   Saint Paul. Two are residents of public housing. The Board sets policy
     for the PHA, which owns and manages almost 4300 units of low-income
   housing with funding from HUD. The PHA also administers over 3700 rent
   subsidies used in privately owned units (Section 8). The Board usually
      meets on the 4th Wednesday of every month at at 9 A.M. at the PHA
               Central Office at 480 Cedar Street, Suite 600.

   For more information, contact Jon Gutzmann, PHA Executive Director, at
                                  298-5664.

                            RAMSEY ACTION PROGRAM

    Ramsey Action Programs is a non-profit organization whose mission is
      “to mobilize community resources to reduce poverty in Ramsey and
     Washington counties.” Its primary services are Head Start, Senior
     Dining, Energy Assistance, and other self-sufficiency programs. The
      agency employes over 300 persons and has a budget in escess of 20
                              million dollars.

    The Board meets on the 3rd Thursday of every month. Residency is not
                                  required.

    For further information, interested persons may contact Dale Anderson
            at 651-603-5876, or Mardell Christie at 651-603-5878.

                            RIVERCENTRE AUTHORITY

   The Saint Paul RiverCentre Authority is a nine-member board responsible
    for overseeing the maintenance, budget, operation and rental policies
    of the Saint Paul RiverCentre. The Authority is also responsible for
                  employing staff to operate the facility.

   Meeting times vary, but are normally at 8:00 a.m. on the last Wednesday
       of each month. Terms are four years. For more information, call
                                651-265-4801.

                           RIVERFRONT CORPORATION

    The Corporation is concerned with the development of the area bounded
     by the High Bridge on the west, Kellogg Boulevard on the north, the
         Lafayette Bridge on the east, and the bluffs on the south.
   The work of the Corporation is guided by the City's comprehensive plan
      and redevelopment plan for the area. In pursuit of its goals, the
     Corporation has sponsored activities and planning studies, and has
    provided matching funds for public riverfront amenities and programs
                             for the riverfront.
   The Corporation’s Board of Directors can number from 8-19 members. The
       Corporation meets at the call of the President of the Board of
      Directors, approximately four times a year. For more information,
                      contact Patrick Seeb at 293-6860.

                TRUTH IN SALE OF HOUSING BOARD OF EVALUATORS

       The Board serves as a watchdog for home buyers by ensuring that
    information on the physical condition of homes for sale is available.
     It also develops and enforces a code of ethics for truth-in-housing
     evaluators. The Board is composed of nine members who serve 3-year
    terms. Residency is not required. The Board meets in January, April,
                             July, and October.

       For more information, contact Connie Sandberg at 651-266-8435.

                        BOARD OF WATER COMMISSIONERS

    The Board is a five-member body that is responsible for the operation
     of Saint Paul Regional Water Services. The Board prepares budgets,
    recommends issuance of revenue bonds, recommends water rates, and can
   condemn and acquire land. Terms are four years. Residency is required.
    The Board meets monthly, 2nd Tuesday of the month, at 5:00 p.m., 310
                    City Hall, 15 West Kellogg Boulevard.

        For more information, contact Bernie Bullert at 651-266-6274.

                       WATER MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATIONS

      The Watershed Management Organizations strive to preserve and use
       natural water storage and retention systems which will provide
      opportunities to reduce public expenditures; to control excessive
      volume and rates of runoff; to improve water quality, to prevent
   flooding and erosion; to promote groundwater replacement and to protect
       and enhance wildlife habitat and water recreational facilities.

       The Water Management Organizations are charged with overseeing
        compliance of local water management plans with the watershed
   management plan and amending the plans as needed; providing a forum for
   settling intercommunity disputes; and establishing capital improvement
      programs as needed. There is a vacancy for a board member and an
                          alternate on each board.

          For more information, contact Anne Weber at 651-266-6245.

    Lower Mississippi River WMO -- The area of Saint Paul within this WMO
   is the West Side. The WMO meets the 3rd Thursday on a rotating basis at
     the various city halls (West St. Paul, South St. Paul, Inver Grove
   Heights and Mendota Heights). The appointment is for a three-year term.
        Residency within Saint Pauls portion of the WMO is required.

   Middle Mississippi River WMO -- The area of Saint Paul within this WMO
   is a small portion in the northwest corner of the City. This WMO meets
   quarterly at the Minneapolis City Hall. The appointment is for a 3-year
     term. Residency within Saint Pauls portion of the WMO is required.

                   CITY-COUNTY WORKFORCE INVESTMENT BOARD

                       WIB information is available at
             www.co.ramsey.mn.us/workforce/wib/WIBpositions.asp.

                              YOUTH FUND BOARD

     The Board reviews applications for grants for youth activities and
   programs. These funds have become available to the City from charitable
     gambling proceeds. The Board also certifies which non-profit youth
   organizations are eligible to receive funds directly from organizations
                     which perform charitable gambling.

     The Board has 18 members who meet on the 3rd Thursday of the month
     (February, May, August, November, and December), 6:00 p.m., at Como
   Lakeside Pavilion. The expected time commitment is 20-25 hours a year.
             City residency is required. Terms are for one year.

        For more information, contact Eric Thompson at 651-266-6362.

                           BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS

   The Board holds public hearings on administrative appeals, requests to
      modify home occupation requirements for disabled individuals and
      requests for zoning variances. The majority of cases are variance
    requests. Administrative appeals are challenges of decisions made by
                            zoning administrator.

      Member of the seven-member board must be residents of Saint Paul.
     Members are appointed by the Mayor to serve three-year overlapping
   terms. At least one member must be a member of the Saint Paul Planning
    Commission. There are two alternate members who serve when a Planning
   Commission member is absent. The Board usually meets every other Monday
   of the month, at 3:30 p.m. The expected time commitment for members is
                   typically three to five hours a month.

     For more information, please contact John Hardwick at 651-266-9082.


                               [wedge_lr.gif]

                              What’s New? || Search || Contact Us || Home

     390 City Hall     15 West Kellogg Boulevard    Saint Paul, MN 55102
             Telephone: 651-266-8510     Facsimile: 651-266-8513
