http://www.faa.gov/ahr/911ann2.htm

   [FAAlogo.gif]

                                  AVAILABLE HUMAN RESOURCES POSITIONS

   The Federal Aviation Administration is soliciting interest for human
   resources positions to be filled for a period of approximately
   six-months, and may be further extended as deemed necessary by the
   organization.

                      Assistant Human Resources Manager
   Salary: $66,000 to $102,300
   Management Assistant
   Salary: $27,100 to $40,700
   Location: Atlantic City, NJ
   Locality Pay: 12.11% added to base
   NOTE: Expenses are not authorized for relocation/moving.

   Interested individuals will be U.S. citizens, and be eligible for a
   secret clearance. Additional requirements include:

   Assistant Human Resources Manager:
   expert knowledge of human resource policies and procedures, including
   staffing, compensation, and benefits; and skill in planning,
   organizing, and performing staff work. Experience in Federal personnel
   highly desirable.

   Management Assistant:
   knowledge of administrative practices, policies, and procedures; and,
   skill in the preparation and analysis of reports using databases.

   Interested individuals have the option to email a copy of their resume
   to HRPositions@faa.gov,
   or fax it to 1-866-291-3009, or mail it to:

   Federal Aviation Administration
   Policy Management Division, AHP-300
   Attention: HR Positions
   800 Independence Avenue, SW
   Washington, DC 20591

   Indicate which position you are applying for. Interested and qualified
   individuals will be contacted for further assessment.


   APPLY NOW!
   (Positions are open until filled)
                    HERE’S WHAT YOUR RESUME SHALL CONTAIN:
       Personal

     * Full name, complete mailing address, and day and evening phone
       numbers (with area code)
     * Country of citizenship
     * Veterans' preference, if applicable (proof required)

       Education

     * High school (Name, City, State, and date of Diploma or GED)
     * Colleges or Universities Attended

       Name, City, State, Type and year of any degrees received or credits
       earned

   Work Experience

   Give the following information for your paid and nonpaid work
   experience related to the job you are interested in
   . (Do not send job descriptions.)
     * Job Titles

       * Duties and accomplishments
       * Employer's name and address
       * Supervisor's name and phone number
       * Starting and ending dates
       * Hours per week
       * Salary

   For additional information, please call 202-267-3780

   The FAA does not discriminate on the basis of political affiliation,
   race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation,
   marital status, age, disability, or any other characteristic not
   bearing on job performance. On an individual case basis, this agency
   also makes reasonable accommodations for applicants with disabilities.
   If you need accommodation in any part of the application or hiring
   process, please call 202-267-3780.
