http://www.coatesville.med.va.gov/CVAMC.html

   navigation bar

                                    logo

   CVAMC AWARDED ACCREDITATION FROM JOINT COMMISSION
   The Coatesville Veterans Administration Medical Center is pleased to
   announce that it has achieved three-year accreditation from the Joint
   Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, as a result of
   its demonstrated compliance with the Joint Commissionís nationally
   recognized health care standards. Achieving accreditation means that we
   have made the grade. We have been recognized for meeting their
   comprehensive standards used to promote quality health care.
   What is the Joint Commission?
   The Joint Commission, or JCAHO, is a nonprofit organization that was
   formed in 1951. The organization is dedicated to improving the quality
   of the nationís health care through a voluntary accreditation program.
   They assess the care provided in more than 18,000 health care
   facilities.
   What do they do?
   Our health care facility was accredited after teams of surveyors
   conducted on-site evaluations in November and December of 1999. The
   surveyors found that our facility was in compliance with the Joint
   Commissionís national standards for hospital, substance abuse
   treatment, long-term care, dementia special care, and behavioral health
   treatment programs.
   The survey process included review of organizational documents such as
   strategic plans, policies, and procedures, organizational charts,
   medical records, and performance improvement results. After review of
   these documents, the surveyors interviewed our staff and inspected our
   buildings.
   The surveyors also checked to see if our patients were satisfied with
   their treatment, by interviewing them. The interviews with employees
   demonstrated their hard work and dedication to patients. Accreditation
   is only obtained through cooperation and communication, with employees
   working together as a team. Everyone played an important role in
   meeting the standards of the Joint Commission, and it showed.
   How do they make the accreditation decision?
   The surveyors use a list of standards to grade us on how we give
   patient care. The highest score a health care facility can achieve is
   100 points. Coatesville scored as follows:
     * Hospital and Substance Abuse Treatment: 91
     * Long Term Care and Dementia Special Care: 96
     * Behavioral Health: 96

   What does accreditation mean to you and the community?
   In becoming accredited, we make a strong statement to you and to the
   rest of the community about our desire to provide services of the
   highest quality. Most importantly, our accreditation demonstrates that
   improving patient care is our ongoing commitment. It means that the
   quality of the health care we deliver to you is our top priority.
   More information regarding the Joint Commission and the survey process
   can be found on the Internet at http://www.jcaho.org.

   Home
   Services
   History
   Enrollment Form
