http://www.ecy.wa.gov/programs/nwp/index.html

   Access Washington Department of Ecology Nuclear Waste Program

   Ecology Home
   Directory
   [dir.gif]
   Public Events
   Laws and Rules
   Publications
   Public Records
   spacer
   Environmental Info.
   spacer
   Services
   spacer
   spacer
   Programs
   Air Quality
   Env. Assessment
   Hazardous Waste
   Nuclear Waste
   Shorelands
   Solid Waste
   Spills
   Toxics Cleanup
   Water Quality
   Water Resources
   spacer
   spacer
   Contracting
   Jobs
   Other Links


   Search Contact Us E-Mail Lists Site Information

Nuclear Waste Program

   The Washington State Department of Ecology Nuclear Waste Program (NWP)
   provides statewide management of mixed waste and leads the state of
   Washington's oversight of the cleanup of the U.S. Department of
   Energy's Hanford Site.

                                Ecology News

   Let's Discuss the Hanford Cleanup
   Come talk to top Hanford decision-makers at a series of regional public
   conversations on the “State of the Hanford Site.” Washington State
   Department of Ecology director Tom Fitzsimmons; U.S. Environmental
   Protection Agency Region 10 representative Mike Gearheard; and the two
   U.S. Department of Energy field office managers at Hanford, Keith Klein
   and Harry Boston, will be in Seattle on January 22; Portland on January
   23, and the Tri-Cities on January 24 to hear your concerns and answer
   your questions about recent progress, current status and upcoming
   issues, challenges and decisions at Hanford.
   More Information

   Negotiations
   The Washington State Department of Ecology has entered into
   negotiations with the US Department of Energy and the US Environmental
   Protection Agency to add milestones to the Tri-Party Agreement for the
   cleanup of the Plutonium Finishing Plant and the Columbia River
   Corridor. Learn more about these negotiations at our Negotiations
   Update Site.

   Employment Opportunities
   Environmental Specialist 2&3 Eligibility Pool
   Environmental Specialist 4&5 Eligibility Pool

   Agreement Reached on Single-Shell Tank (SST) Leak Detection and
   Integrity Assessment Requirements
   Following a hazardous waste facility compliance inspection at USDOE's
   Single-Shell Tanks, Ecology and the U.S. Department of Energy have
   agreed to class II modifications of the Tri-Party Agreement.
   Modifications include requirements:
    1. for more accurate identification of all SST system components,
    2. establishing definitive schedules for near term improvements to
       USDOE's SST leak detection system,
    3. establishing requirements and criteria for further leak detection
       system improvements, and
    4. the establishment of requirements regarding the assessment of SST
       system integrity.

   The agencies modified two TPA milestone series (M-23 and M-45).
   Agreement Letter
   M-23 Change Control Form (includes description and justification for
   M-23 modification)
   M-45 Change Control Form (includes description and justification for
   M-45 modification)

   Final Determination issued on Request to Extend Tank Waste Treatment
   Deadlines
   Ecology denies Department of Energy request to move back vitrification
   facility milestones.
   Letter of Transmittal
   Final Determination

   Hanford Air Operating Permit Issued
   Final permit
   Statement of Basis
   Response to comments made by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and
   Hanford Site contractors
   Response to comments made by the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla
   Indian Reservation (CTUIR)

   Status of Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Commercial Low
   Level Nuclear Waste Disposal Facility
   An update on the status of the EIS.
   The Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS)
   Briefing sheet

   Hanford Cleanup Budget/Obligations
   Commentary by Paige Knight, Hanford Watch


   Tank Waste Treatment Workshop Report

   Ecology and stakeholders discuss the future of tank waste treatment.
   The report

   General tank waste treatment information


   Comments on Vitrification Facility Permit Application.
   Ecology issued comments to DOE on the River Protection Project Waste
   Treatment Facility (Vitrification Facility) Dangerous Waste Permit
   Application.
   Ecology's comments


   Ecology Issues Final Determination on DST Integrity Assessments
   Final Determination


        Join our Facility Mailing Lists | Contact the Web Coordinator





                               [fastfacts.gif]

   About The NWP

   About Hanford

   Public Involvement

   Projects

   Documents

   Site Map

   Links

   Mail Lists


   Nuclear Waste Program

   Kennewick
   1315 W 4th Ave. (map)
   Kennewick, WA 99336-6018
   (509) 735-7581
   (800) 321-2008
   TDD (509) 736-3039
   Fax (509) 736-3030
   Lacey
   300 Desmond Drive (map)
   Lacey, WA 98503
   (360) 407-6000
   TTY (360) 407-6006
