http://www.pbgc.gov/privacy.htm

   Skip to page content Home About PBGC Legal Information and FOIA Forms
   News Contact Information Retirement Planning Publications

   Privacy Notice and Security Disclaimer

   I want info about... Select a task you would like to complete in the
   menu below. Select the go button after choosing a task.
   [- PBGC___________]
   go
     Home >

   Use the Pension Search application to search pension plans by selecting
   a menu option below. Select the go button after choosing an option.
   [- View Options  ]
   go

   Trusteed plan info... Select a plan you would like to view from the
   menu below. Select the go button after choosing a plan.
   [- Introduction___]

   List of
   Trusteed Plans
                 go
   Search PBGC's Web site by entering a keyword below. Select the go
   button to submit the keyword.

   Advanced Search
                  Go
   Plan Administration
   Participant Services

   Privacy Notice and Security Disclaimer

   Thank you for visiting the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC)
   Web site. You are accessing a computer system operated by PBGC, a
   wholly-owned corporation of the United States Government. It is for
   authorized use only, in compliance with the PBGC Electronic
   Communications Policy and federal laws, and when use is authorized,
   such use may not exceed the scope of authorization.

   The privacy of people using our Web site is a vital concern to PBGC. As
   a general rule, PBGC does not collect personal identifying information;
   however, PBGC does collect certain information for system management
   and site security purposes.

   System Management: As part of system management, PBGC uses various
   software tools and computing methods to insure this site is operating
   in an optimum manner and to identify what information is of the most
   and least interest to its users. We do not collect or sell information
   about you for commercial purposes. Among the information that currently
   is collected by PBGC for system management are:
     * The name of the domain from which you access the Internet (for
       example, www.altavista.com);
     * The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
     * The date and time you access our site;
     * The Internet address of the Web site from which you linked directly
       to our site; and,
     * The pages and files you access on this site.

   Please note that none of this information identifies you personally in
   any way.

   Site Security: For security purposes and to ensure that this service
   remains available to all users, PBGC also employs software programs to
   monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or
   change information, or otherwise cause damage. No attempts are made to
   identify individual users unless illegal behavior is suspected.
   Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
   this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986, the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996, or other such laws as may apply.

   Cookies: Cookies are small datafiles sent to your computer by Web sites
   you visit. Cookies store information about you and the type of computer
   you use to access the Web site. These files may contain personal
   information. There are two types of cookies: session and persistent.
   Session cookies expire once the user closes the browser. Persistent
   cookies, however, remain on your system for an extended period of time.

   In accordance with federal policy, PBGC does not use persistent cookies
   on its Web site. If you search the General Counsel's database of
   opinion letters, you will be doing so on a contractor-operated Web
   site, which is outside PBGC. This external Web site uses session
   cookies (but not persistent cookies). The session cookies are intended
   to assist you as you search the database, and as stated above, expire
   once you close your browser.

   Email: If you choose to contact PBGC via electronic mail, please be
   aware that the information you send will be used only for the purposes
   described at the point of collection and detailed in our Privacy Act
   Notice. However, due to the nature of the Internet and the World Wide
   Web, we cannot assure the security of the information during
   transmission by electronic mail over the public Internet. Thus, you may
   be uncomfortable with sending personal information (such as your SSN
   number, bank account number, or home phone number and address) over the
   Internet. If so, we suggest that you send the information to PBGC by
   regular mail or contact PBGC by telephone. See Contact Information for
   appropriate addresses and telephone numbers.
   Return to the top of the page

   Site Map FAQs Disclaimer Privacy Statement Glossary What's New Customer
                               Service Pledge

   Send comments about this Web site to webmaster@pbgc.gov

   Last Edited: 9/28/01
