http://www.ia.nrcs.usda.gov/Technical/Phosphorus/phosphorusstandard.htm

   Iowa NRCS



            Iowa Phosphorus Index

                                 [USEMAP:smallbuttons.jpg]

                     Download The Iowa Phosphorus Index
                          (Last revised Feb. 2001)

                Download The Iowa Phosphorus Index Calculator
                          (Last revised Feb. 2001)
                          Requires Microsoft Excel


   Support Documents:
   Background & Basic Concepts
   (Last revised Feb. 2001)
   Phosphorus  Index Fact Sheet
   (Last revised March 2001)

   Jump To: [- - - -______________] [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__

   Purpose

   The purpose of Iowa phosphorus (P) index is to assess the risk of P
   delivery to surface waters. The index is a tool to help conservation
   planners, landowners/land users and others to evaluate the current risk
   from P reaching surface water from a specific site, and to determine
   factors which dominate the risk due to P transport to surface waters.
   It will also assist landowners/land users in making management
   decisions to reduce the risk.

   Background

   Phosphorus is an important nutrient needed for crop production and many
   fertilizers and organic sources can be used to supplement the supply of
   available P in soils. However, there are environmental concerns when
   excessive amounts of P (and other nutrients) from various sources reach
   surface waters. Phosphorus from soil, manure, fertilizer, and runoff,
   or subsurface flow that reaches surface water can produce
   eutrophication. Eutrophication is defined as an increase in the
   fertility status of natural waters that causes accelerated growth of
   algae or aquatic plants. In most fresh surface waters (lakes, ponds,
   and streams), the excessive growth of algae or aquatic plants is
   limited by inadequate levels of P. Large inputs of P to surface waters
   from nonpoint sources such as agricultural fields can elevate the P
   concentration in the water above critical levels for aquatic plant
   growth and thus enhance the development of eutrophication.

   The challenge to producers and agriculturists is to develop a plan that
   efficiently utilizes all sources of nutrients and at the same time
   maintains or increases agricultural profitability and environmental
   quality.

   The P index is an integrated approach to estimating the risk of P
   delivered to surface water from agricultural fields. This tool was
   developed to assess the potential for P moving from individual fields
   based on selected soil and field characteristics and on management
   practices. The P index is much more comprehensive than relying only on
   soil test P because it integrates many soil and field characteristics
   that influence potential P movement to surface waters. These
   characteristics include source factors such as soil test P, total soil
   P, rate, method, and timing of P application (fertilizer, manure, and
   other organic sources), and erosion. They also include transport
   factors such as sediment delivery, relative field location in the
   watershed, soil conservation practices, precipitation, runoff and tile
   flow/subsurface drainage. Use of the P index provides a means of
   identifying fields that have a low to moderate potential for P
   delivered to surface water, as well as fields that have very high risk
   of P loss and, therefore, require conservation practices and/or limits
   to manure or fertilizer P. The P index provides a relative rating as to
   the risk of P moving from individual fields, which can be used to
   prioritize fields for nutrient and soil management practices. Because
   of the integrated system, the P index is useful for understanding the
   processes causing a high P delivery to surface water, and can help
   identify management practices to lower that risk. Ultimately, use of
   the P-index should reduce risks of P delivered to surface water,
   improve or maintain water quality, and provide producers options for
   improved P management.

   Basic Concepts Underlying the Iowa Phosphorus Index

   The current version of the P index is based on available research data
   and scientific judgment when the data are not available. Ongoing
   research designed to validate the various components of the index will
   produce results useful to modify the index. Current knowledge about the
   processes that are conducive to P delivered to surface waters has
   determined the main characteristics and underlying concepts of the Iowa
   P index. Some of the most important concepts can be summarized in the
   following four points.

   1. The Iowa P index uses source and transport factors to approximate P
   loads to surface waters and to establish five risk classes. The source
   factors are arranged in a multiplicative manner within three components
   that represent the main transport mechanisms: 1) Erosion Component
   (sediment loss), 2) Runoff Component (water loss), and 3) Subsurface
   Drainage Component (water movement through tile and/or coarse
   subsoil/substrata). These components of the index yield relative risk
   of loss by approximating potential P delivered to surface water. The
   index sums the three components to get an overall estimate of P
   delivery to surface water, which will be placed into five risk classes
   (very low to very high). These classes are based on current knowledge
   concerning P loads to surface water from watersheds with varying
   degrees of eutrophication. The index units are approximated in
   lb/P/acre/yr for assumed long-term average conditions. The index is not
   intended to be used for prediction of actual P delivered to surface
   water from fields.

   2. The index incorporates tools currently used by the Natural Resources
   Conservation Service (NRCS) to estimate the impact of landforms, soil
   map units, and management practices on soil and water loss from fields.
   These tools have been modified as needed to estimate these losses for
   the most representative area of individual agricultural fields.
   Appropriate use of the Index requires a recent measurement of soil test
   P using procedures suggested for crop production by Iowa State
   University.

   3. The index considers loss of P dissolved in water runoff or
   subsurface drainage water that is readily available for algae growth.
   It also considers the proportion of the P in soil sediment (particulate
   P) delivered through erosion processes that likely will be released to
   the water over a period of time. Thus, the index will weigh particulate
   P losses very heavily when erosion risk is high and the impact of
   increased soil P associated with high soil P test levels.

   4. The current version of the index does not differentiate between
   commonly used P sources, and gives similar weight to fertilizer,
   manure, and other organic sources. It is recognized that differences in
   water solubility of P may influence the short-term impact of P
   applications on P delivered to surface water through runoff or
   subsurface drainage, although not necessarily long-term losses through
   these processes or with eroded sediment. Ongoing research should
   provide information to modify future versions of the index as needed.

    [1] [2] [3] [4] [Next Page]
