http://www.lcfea.usda.gov/sweet_rewards3.html

   Larimer County Federal Executive Association {short description of
   image}

   {short description of image}

   {short description of image}

                      Federal Employee Recognition Day
   "3rd Annual Sweet Rewards"
   May 20, 1999
   This annual event is designed to recognize Federal employees for their
   outstanding service to the community and the Federal government.

                              AWARD CATEGORIES
   To go directly to one of the award categories below, just click on the
   underlined title.
   Outstanding Citizen Award
   Diversity Award
   Board of Director's Award

    OUTSTANDING CITIZEN AWARD

   Recognizes the Federal employee who has given outstanding service to
   the local, state, national and/or international community.

   NOMINEES: AND THE WINNERS ARE:
   Duane Asherin, United States Geological Service
   Duane has volunteered his time for the past ten years to the wildlife
   and conservation efforts of Ducks Unlimited, an international
   conservation organization of Northern America. He has taken on several
   chairman roles and was nominated as 1997's Zone Chairman of the Year.
   May Chu, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   May was nominated for her outstanding contributions to International
   Health. She has demonstrated exceptional leadership in developing an
   international network of research and training in the field of plague
   research.
   Bonnie M. King, Agricultural Research Service, Area Office
   As President of the Larimer County Safety Council, Bonnie King has
   given outstanding service to the local community. She has been
   instrumental in determining and organizing needed training for council
   members.
   Gregory S. McMasters, Agricultural Research Service, Great Plains
   Systems Research
   For several years, Greg has been involved in numerous community
   activities. He was key in organizing the Avery Park Neighborhood
   Association and is presently working with the City of Fort Collins on
   flood protection and many other projects.
                               Anette M.
   Annette L. Miller
   Agricultural Research Service, National Seed Storage Laboratory
   Jack M.
   Jack D. Means II
   Agricultural Research Service, Area Office
   Ray Martinez, Mayor of Fort Collins, presented the awards.
   Jack D. Means II, Agricultural Research Service, Area Office
   Jack is president of the Larimer County Alliance for the Mentally Ill
   and is active at the national level within the organization. He is also
   active in the Lutheran Brotherhood, the Larimer County Food
   Distribution Center, Meals on Wheels, CFC, FEA, FELCC. In 1991, Jack
   received the USDA Point of Light Award for outstanding service to the
   community.
   Anette L. Miller, Agricultural Research Service, National Seed Storage
   Laboratory
   Annette's leadership efforts and dedication to recycling programs have
   raised awareness of responsibilities that coworkers should have to
   preserve our environment. She is also involved with CSU and the City of
   Fort Collins in the Alternative Transportation Week Program.

   <<Back to Top>>
   DIVERSITY AWARD
   Recognizes the Federal employee who has made an outstanding achievement
   in the areas of Equal Employment Opportunity, enrichment of ethnicity,
   and cultural diversity in the workplace and the community.
    NOMINEES: AND THE WINNER IS:
   Albert F. Dale, Animal & Plant Health Inspection Service, NWRC, Animal
   Care
   Dr. Dale was nominated for his great management skills, instruction,
   and his willingness to listen and help all his employees improve
   themselves.
   Jolene R. Hansen, Agricultural Research Service, National Seed Storage
   Laboratory (NSSL)
   Jolene Hansen was nominated for organizing and planning many
   activities, displays, documentaries, and speakers to help enrich her
   fellow coworkers in the area of cultural diversity. She also gives
   special attention to students, visitors, foreign visiting scientists,
   and the general public touring the NSSL, all of whom comprise a diverse
   group.
                                 Linda S.
   Linda M. Sundstrom
   Agricultural Research Service, Great Plains Systems Research
   The award was presented by Robert Miller, Colorado State University
   Diversity Coordinator.
   Linda M. Sundstrom, Agricultural Research Service, Great Plains Systems
   Research
   Linda Sundstrom was nominated for reviving her unit's EEO/CR committee
   and bringing excitement to it by chairing the committee, organizing and
   scheduling meetings, events, volunteer work, and diversity and cultural
   awareness with potluck events and bulletin boards. She has also been
   successful in getting coworkers to volunteer with her at the Open Door
   Mission.

   <<Back to Top>>
   BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S AWARD
   Recognizes the Federal employee who has made an outstanding
   contribution which reflects all or any part of the mission of the
   Federal Executive Association. The mission is 'To be a creative force
   for facilitating positive Federal employee interaction with the
   community. To add value to the missions of Federal agencies in Larimer
   County.' This should be an employee who has taken on extra duties that
   go beyond his/her job description. Than employee may or may not be an
   active participant in the FEA.
   NOMINEES: AND THE WINNER IS:
   Saundra L. Garrett, Agricultural Research Service, National Seed
   Storage Laboratory
   Saundra was nominated for her outstanding administrative support and
   for going a step farther and helping her fellow employees with a very
   personal and generous touch. She is well-informed on all aspects of her
   job and keeps all her fellow employees aware of resources and protocol.
   Harriet D. Rector Agricultural Research Service, Great Plains Systems
   Research
   Harriet was nominated for her talent in being a facilitator in several
   different programs and training sessions throughout the year. She
   serves on her unit's EEO/CR committee and their safety committee. She
   also volunteers monthly at a homeless shelter.
                     {short description of image}
   Saundra Garrett
   Agricultural Research Service, National Seed Storage Laboratory
   Sue Rachlin, LCFEA President, presented the award..

   {short description of image}

   Home Mission LCFEA Officers Membership By-laws Training Opportunities
   Upcoming Events

   {short description of image}

   http://www. lcfea.usda.gov/sweet_rewards3.html
   We welcome your comments and suggestions about these pages. Please
   direct them to: ehamilton@tasc.usda.gov
   Web site last updated: 06/30/1999
