http://tuitiongrant.washingtondc.gov/main.htm

   [USEMAP:header.gif]

   Home
   Citizen Services
   Business Services
   Mayor's Office
   Mayor's Scorecards
   DC Council
   City Goverment
   Visitor Information
   Mayor Anthony A. Williams

   DC Tuition Assistance

   Tuition Assistance

    Home
    Fact Sheet
    FAQs
   How to Apply

    Application
   College & University Participation

    Eligible Schools
    Regulations
    Program Information
   Sitio en Español




   DC_Tuition Assistance Grant_Program

   Overview


   Mayor Anthony Williams urges all residents who qualify to apply for a
   DC Tuition Assistance Grant immediately! This is a grant - not a loan,
   and it can open wide the doors of the public college or university of
   your choice, NATIONWIDE, at low, in-state tuition rates. The DC Tuition
   Assistance Grant Program is part of our overall effort to provide
   first-class education opportunities so that all of our citizens can
   reach their full potential. You must meet certain residency
   requirements and have graduated from high school or received your
   G.E.D. after January 1, 1998. You must also have begun your freshman
   year of college within three years of graduating.




    DC Tuition Assistance
   Grant Program

   What types of tuition grants are available for DC residents under this
   legislation?
   Who is eligible for these grants?
   When will the grants be available?
   What other resources are available to DC residents attending college?
   Frequently Asked Questions


     Additional Resources

     US Department of Education

     Educational Opportunity Center (EOC)

     Greater Washington College Information Center

     DC College Access Program
   Whom do I contact for further information?

   Call the DC Tuition Assistance Grant Program office at (202) 727-2824.
   Toll free: 1-(877) 485-6751; Spanish: (202) 727-8450.
   TTY: (202) 727-1675.

   Information is also available by contacting the Greater Washington
   College Information Center hotline at (202) 393-1100, ext 16.
   Directory by Topic
   Elected Officials
   Contact and Services
   Search
   Events
   DC Government Agencies

   Click Here To Visit The Official Website of the Government of the
   District of Columbia Government of the District of Columbia
   John A. Wilson Building
   1350 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20004
   Citywide Call Center: (202) 727-1000
   Feedback & Comments | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions of Use
