http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=2

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   Youre on your way to another world, barely connected by land to the
   major cities of Puget Sound. Whether youre driving west, or standing at
   the bow of a ferry, you cant help but stare ahead to the jagged beauty
   of the Olympic Mountains.

   You can reach the Olympic and Kitsap Peninsulas by several different
   routes: take a car ferry from Seattle, Edmonds, Whidbey Island, or
   Victoria, B.C., or drive around through Tacoma or Olympia. The scenic
   Olympic Loop (Highway 101) circumnavigates Olympic National Park and
   provides access to the entire peninsula region.

   When you take the ferry from downtown Seattle, you cross Elliott Bay
   and land in picturesque Kitsap County. As a day outing or as a stopover
   on your way west, the Kitsap Peninsula is home to many distinctive
   shops and galleries, fine restaurants and cozy inns with spectacular
   views the Olympic Mountains to the west and Mount Rainier and the city
   skyline to the east. On Hood Canal, a fjord between the Kitsap and
   Olympic Peninsulas, the summer sun warms the channel waters for
   swimming and blackberries grow fat on bluffs and roadsides.

   The vast and roadless Olympic National Park combined with Olympic
   National Forest, totals more than 2 million acres of protected nature.
   Ecological and geological extremes coexist in close proximity. Whether
   youre equipped to scale the sharpest peak, or simply seek the peace of
   a groomed path to a waterfall in the forest, you must explore it for
   yourself. Deer and bear are plentiful and the Roosevelt elk population
   is the largest anywhere. Bald eagles ride the skies and salmon fight
   their way upstream from the Pacific. You can trace their journey from
   the ocean, along a river through the rain forest, all the way to the
   foot of the blue glaciers of Mount Olympus.

   Along the shore, monumental sea stacks stand oblivious to the power of
   the Pacific. Jade-green sea urchins, orange starfish and myriad other
   species take refuge in delicate tide pools. These are the last
   wilderness beaches in the lower 48 states. In the rain forest, ferns
   grow to prehistoric size and moss hangs like drapery from the branches
   of ancient trees. Here in the worlds only coniferous rain forests,
   youll find the worlds largest specimens of western cedar and Sitka
   spruce. In the alpine areas, rugged mountains wear wildflowers and rise
   in a blink from near sea level to six and seven thousand feet. Their
   glacial melt fills the rivers with a nourishing rage in the spring.

   Activities on the peninsulas are as diverse as the spectacular
   landscape. In the same day, its possible to go snowboarding in the
   morning and scuba diving in the afternoon. Traverse a glacier; soak
   your body in a hot spring; then visit a local winery, art gallery or
   unique artisan's shop. Go whitewater rafting through the Elwha River
   Valley; then go llama trekking into the high-country. Or, stroll for
   miles on a natural beach, stopping to examine life teeming in the tide
   pools. You can fish from the shore or try your skills on the deep seas.
   Climb Mount Olympus or walk a gentle trail in the surreal green of a
   rain forest. Wherever you explore, watch for the black bear and noble
   Roosevelt elk. After all, this is really their domain.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
