http://www.iig.ca.gov/lead/index.shtml


                            Welcome to California
                            California Home

   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                               Innovation Home




                             LEAD Workshops
                              * Sacramento LEAD
                              * Fresno LEAD
                              * Los Angeles LEAD




      Articles About LEAD
       * New Century Express, Issue 22, Summer 2000
       * E-Government report by the Center for Technology in Government,
         University at Albany/SUNY


               Governor's Office for Innovation in Government

                     Life Event & Affinity Design (LEAD)

   Governor Gray Davis has directed state government to improve
   effectiveness and provide better service by utilizing technology.
   Generally called "eGovernment," this effort includes a number of
   technology initiatives that are proposed or underway.

   Rather than take a scattershot approach, the Governor's Office for
   Innovation in Government helped guide a coordinated effort by using
   innovative techniques that ensured the customer was at the forefront of
   all decisions.

   The centerpiece of this initiative was the groundbreaking Life Event
   and Affinity Design (LEAD) workshops held around the state. Sponsored
   by the Governor's Office for Innovation in Government, the primary goal
   of the LEAD workshops was to leverage the best technology and to break
   down bureaucratic barriers to customer service.

   A design team of private sector and state and local government
   representatives worked to define the LEAD workshop objectives. Invited
   to attend were a cross-section of citizens, service providers,
   students, technologists and others with an interest in improving
   government services. They were asked to identify "life events," where
   citizens interface with government, and then they considered current
   and possible future services associated with the event. A number of
   innovative tools were used to help customers visualize and articulate
   what effortless access to government services would be like. Workshop
   organizes helped attendees identify "affinities," or relationships of
   events that Californians typically experience.

   The ideas that grew out of the LEAD workshops were refined and
   reported, and have influenced the design of the California "portal"
   website and various other eGovernment initiatives.

   For more information about LEAD, contact Lisa Beutler at (916)
   445-1176, or via e-mail at info@innovation.ca.gov.

                  Photo of participants writing on the wall
                            Putting ideas to work
     Three gatherings of more than 270 advocates and users of government
                services participated in the LEAD workshops.
                           View larger image (81K)



                              __________ search
                                 (*)  My CA


                                 * Design Team

                                 LEAD Tools


                            * Building a 'Mind Map'
                            * Actual Mind Map

                           Questions or Comments?


                                Lisa Beutler
                           916-445-1176
                           or
                           info@innovation.ca.gov


                             State of California

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
