http://www.pugetsound.med.va.gov/events/anthrax03.htm

      Text Only Version Home  |  Search  |  Site Map  |  Visitor Center

                                 [logo.gif]



   October 31, 2001
   FOR IMMEDIATE DISTRIBUTION
   FROM: TIMOTHY B. WILLIAMS
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
   TO: ALL VA PUGET SOUND PATIENTS & FAMILIES
   There has been much in the news lately about potential bioterrorism
   threats. We would like to provide information to our patients and their
   families to assist you in coping with the uncertainties of unknown
   threats and to make you more alert to your surroundings acknowledging
   that information is changing daily
   ANTHRAX THREATS:
   The Center for Disease Control (CDC) has developed the following
   guidelines on HOW TO HANDLE ANTHRAX AND OTHER BIOLOGICAL AGENT THREATS.
   Many facilities in communities around the country have received anthrax
   threat letters. While many were hoaxes, some have contained powdery
   substances. The purpose of these guidelines is to recommend procedures
   for handling such incidents.
   FIRST, DO NOT PANIC

   1. Anthrax organisms can cause infection in the skin, gastrointestinal
   system, or the lungs. To do, so the organism must be rubbed into
   abraded skin, swallowed, or inhaled as a fine, aerosolized mist.
   Disease can be prevented after exposure to the anthrax spores by early
   treatment with the appropriate antibiotics. Anthrax is not spread from
   one person to another person.

   2. For anthrax to be effective as a covert agent, it must be
   aerosolized into very small particles. This is difficult to do, and
   requires a great deal of technical skill and special equipment. If
   these small particles are inhaled, life-threatening lung infection can
   occur, but prompt recognition and treatment are effective.

   HOW TO IDENTIFY SUSPICIOUS PACKAGES AND LETTERS AT WORK OR AT HOME

   Some characteristics of suspicious packages and letters include the
   following
     * Excessive postage
     * Handwritten or poorly typed addresses
     * Incorrect titles
     * Title, but no name
     * Misspellings of common words
     * Oily stains, discoloration or odor
     * No return address
     * Excessive weight
     * Lopsided or uneven envelope
     * Protruding wires or aluminum foil
     * Excessive security material such as masking tape, string, etc.
     * Visual distractions
     * Ticking sound
     * Marked with restrictive endorsements, such as Personal or
       Confidential
     * Shows a city or state in the postmark that does not match the
       return address

   HOW TO HANDLE A SUSPICIOUS UNOPENED LETTER OR PACKAGE AT WORK OR AT
   HOME

   1. Do not shake or empty the contents of any suspicious envelope or
   package.

   2. If you do not have any container, then COVER the envelope or package
   with anything (e.g., clothing, paper, trash-can, etc.) and do not
   remove this cover.

   3. Then LEAVE the room and CLOSE the door or section off the area to
   prevent others from entering (i.e., keep others away).

   4. WASH your hands with soap and water to prevent spreading any powder
   to your face.

   5. What to do next
     * If you are at HOME, then report the incident to local police.

   ENVELOPE WITH POWDER AND POWDER SPILLS OUT ONTO SURFACE:

   1. DO NOT try to clean up the powder. COVER the spilled contents
   immediately with anything (e.g., clothing, paper, trash- can, etc.),
   and do not remove this cover!

   2. Then LEAVE the room and CLOSE the door, or section off the area to
   prevent others from entering (i.e., keep others away).

   3. WASH your hands with soap and water to prevent spreading any powder
   to your face.

   4. What to do next
     * If you are at HOME, report the incident to local police.

   5. REMOVE heavily contaminated clothing as soon as possible and place
   in a plastic bag, or other container that can be sealed. This clothing
   bag should be given to the emergency responders for proper handling.

   6. SHOWER with soap and water as soon as possible. Do Not Use Bleach or
   Other Disinfectant on Your Skin.

   7. If possible, list all people who were in the room or area,
   especially those who had actual contact with the powder. Give this list
   to the VA Police or Industrial Hygienist, as above.

   QUESTION OF ROOM CONTAMINATION BY AEROSOL SPRAY:

   If opening an envelope or package appears to trigger a small device
   that shoots a powder into the air, consider this a warning that the
   air-handling system is contaminated, or a warning that a biological
   agent has been released in a public space.

   1. Turn off local fans or ventilation units in the area.

   2. LEAVE the area immediately.

   3. CLOSE the door, or section off the area to prevent others from
   entering (I.e., keep others away).

   4. What to do nextIf you are at HOME, then report the incident to local
   police.

   5. SHUT down air handling system in the building, if possible.

    This page last updated on 10/31/2001 .
    If you have difficulty accessing any material on this website, please
    contact us in writing or via telephone and we will work with you to
    make the information available.
    Contact Us |  Comments and Suggestions   |  Copyright  |  Disclaimer
    |  E-Mail This Link To A Friend  |  Privacy Statement
    VA National Web Site  |  VISN 20
