http://spd.nasa.gov/agri.html

   Space Product Development              NASA Insignia
                             Space for Business to Grow

   Click here to skip menu



   Home
   What is SPD?
   Industry
   Research
   Commercial
   Space Centers
   News
   Events
   Success Stories
   -Agribusiness
   -Biotechnology
   -Materials R&D
   Contact Us
    Search
     _______________ go

Success Stories - Agribusiness

   Agribusiness covers traditional agricultural areas such as plant growth
   while adding the modern components, such as the production of food and
   drugs through plants. Commercial space research has resulted in a
   number of significant successes, including:

Astroponics

   astroponics - plants growing under LED When it comes to growing plants
   in space, the Wisconsin Center for Space Automation and Robotics is the
   place to go. Now, that experience can come to a classroom near you in
   the form of a plant growth chamber developed by this NASA Commercial
   Space Center as an educational product. Fisher Science Education
   division of the Fisher Scientific Company is marketing the ASTROPONICS
   product and related products in its 1999/2000 catalog. ASTROPONICS
   provides students with hands-on experience in growing plants in an
   enclosed chamber that provides artificial lighting, water and nutrients
   to the plant without opening the chamber. With this, the basic
   principles of conducting plant experiments in space can be simulated in
   the classroom.

A Rose By Any Other Name

   rose growing in ASTROCULTURE commercial plant growth chamber Many were
   enchanted during the historic STS95 mission by pictures of a miniature
   rose plant growing in the ASTROCULTURE commercial plant growth chamber.
   The rose was flown to see if the microgravity environment would alter
   the fragrance of the rose, or perhaps produce an entirely new scent
   something very important to the multi-billion dollar a year flavors and
   fragrance industry.

   According to International Flavors & Fragrances, the commercial
   partner, the results were literally out of this world. The fact that
   fragrance molecules do change in proportion to one another promises to
   lend a greater dimension to future fragrance research and the
   possibility of using microgravity to create new fragrance entities, or,
   for that matter, any chemical products including possibly
   pharmaceuticals, that the plant produces, states Eugene Grisanti,
   Chairman and CEO of International Flavors & Fragrances. Dr. Braja
   Mookherjee, Vice President and Director of Natural Products Research
   states This transformation has created a completely new fragrance that
   is not of this Earth. IFF intends to further explore space research on
   living plant materials to benefit mankind.

   Seed Production Seed production is an essential part of crop
   production: without a good supply of seeds, farmers can not plant their
   fields. In 1996, the Wisconsin Center for Space Automation and Robotics
   (WCSAR), a Commercial Space Center, and Pioneer Hi-Bred International
   launched a research effort to accelerate plant growth so that new seeds
   could be produced in the shortest possible amount of time. This
   research was done using the Commercial Plant Biotechnology Facility,
   designed for space-based research and featuring a totally enclosed and
   precisely controlled environment, and was able to reduce plant growth
   cycles. An example of this was reducing the soybean growth cycle from
   an average of 110 days to an average of 62 days a significant
   improvement. This was made possible through the advanced software and
   related technologies, and the use of ASTROCULTURE technologies that
   have been proven on the Shuttle.

   Produce in grocery store An out-of-this-world technology has landed at
   local grocers and elsewhere to help keep fruits and vegetables fresh
   and ready to eat. The system, developed for use in the ASTROCULTURE
   commercial plant growth facility, removes ethylene from the air.
   Ethylene is a natural hormone that is an essential part of the ripening
   process. Too much of it, however, causes plants and plant products to
   prematurely wither and spoil. KES Science and Technology of Georgia has
   licensed the patent to the system, which uses glass pellets coated with
   titanium dioxide and ultraviolet light to remove ethylene, and is
   marketing it under the brand name Bio-Kleen to grocers and others
   involved with the storage and transports of plants and materials.
   Unlike other systems, this technology requires virtually no maintenance
   and has also been shown to reduce bacteria, molds, and odors from
   storage rooms. It is estimated that the system could increase the
   shelf-life of perishable items by a week, providing a significant
   savings by reducing the amount of food or other materials that spoil
   and have to be thrown away.

   The production minitubers, dime-sized potatoes used as seeds for larger
   crops, is a business that is anything but small potatoes. Unlike other
   seed crops, seed potatoes are bulky and heavy, and most countries limit
   their import as a means of controlling plant disease. In addition, the
   normal process of producing new, disease free seed potatoes can
   literally take years to bear fruit. Yet many countries need improved
   seed potatoes now, since as much as 85 percent of current crops are
   diseased to the point that they are not fit for human consumption.
   American Ag-Tec International, Ltd. is making use of the environmental
   and growth systems developed for use in the ASTROCULTURE and the
   Commercial Plant Biotechnology Facility to address this critical
   problem.

   The Quantum Tuber Facility is expected to make significant
   contributions to addressing this need. According to American Ag-Tec
   International President Robert Britt, one Quantum Tuber Facility with
   approximately 1,000 growth chambers, could replace one quarter of the
   seed potatoes imported by Egypt, allowing the $30 million spent on them
   to be used for other purposes. In addition, the system is also
   considered to be ideal for growing plants that contain edible vaccines.
   Such genetically altered potatoes are already being grown, and the use
   of plants for such work reduces the chance of contamination, is less
   expensive than building new facilities for traditional means of
   production, and eliminates the need to give shots to administer the
   vaccine. By growing such plants in a country, the costs of shipping and
   problems with refrigerating the cargo to prevent spoilage are
   eliminated. As a result, the Quantum Tuber Facility may prove to be an
   important tool for crop improvement, fighting hunger, and fighting
   disease.

   Crops Any gambler will tell you that odds of 1 in a 1,000, or worse,
   are not a good bet. Yet, those are the odds facing researchers trying
   to transfer desirable genes into food and other important crops. A
   commercial agribusiness experiment on STS95, however, indicates that
   microgravity may dramatically change the odds in favor of the
   researchers and make the operation far less a gamble.

   Seedling Instead of older methodssuch as cross pollination and
   graftingthat can take years to produce results, researchers now use
   bacteria to transfer the gene carrying the desired trait to seedlings.
   These seedlings will, in turn, pass the trait along to future
   generations of the plant. In Earth-based laboratories, however, the
   expected success rate for this process is at best 1 plant in 1,000, or
   0.1 percent. In the experimentperformed by industry partners Rapigen
   LLC, The Indiana Crop Improvement Association, Inc., Christophersen &
   Associates, Inc., and the University of Toledo approximately 1,000
   soybean seedlings had their growing point (meristem) region damaged
   just before launch, and were wrapped in water-soaked paper rolls that
   were then placed in a modified ASTROCULTURE locker. Damaging the
   growing point provided a point of entry for bacteria containing the
   gene to be transferred, in this case a marker gene that is fluorescent
   and easily tracked. The bacteria was mixed into growth media and
   transferred into the containers with the paper rolls once on orbit. The
   level of genetic transfer was way beyond our expectations, says Ray
   Bula, a Principal with Rapigen LLC and a retired director of WCSAR. We
   thought that if we could double the rate of transfer seen on Earth, it
   would have been promising. Instead of simply doubling, according to
   Bula, there was more than a 10-fold increase in genetic transfer
   compared with the ground-based control experiment. While this was
   extremely successful, an unanticipated result was a high rate of
   infection.

   For a number of reasons, the growth of bacteria is much more difficult
   to control in microgravity than it is on Earth. As a result, the high
   rate of infection blocked the vascular system of the plants. Bula
   states that this problem can be corrected, in part, by reducing the
   amount of bacteria since less is needed to do the job in microgravity.

   Work is already underway on a second gene transfer experiment. This
   experiment will include refinements from the data gathered on STS95,
   and instead of a marker gene will transfer a gene to the soybeans that
   has a medical application. Such experimentation is extremely important
   to farmers, as genetically engineered varieties will make up more than
   70 percent of the soybeans planted nationally this year. Improved gene
   transfer opens the door to a host of other exciting possibilities
   including plants that are insect resistantreducing the need for
   chemical insecticidesand plants that incorporate medical vaccines.

   [back to top]
