http://ccl.dss.cahwnet.gov/docs/fingerprintserv/fingerprint_info.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CCLD Home
                          Facility Types
                          Search for a Facility
                          Licensing Forms
                          Employment
                          District Offices
                          Community Care Updates
                          Regulations
                          An Overview of Licensing
                          Provider Letters
                          Index to Precedent
                          Links
                          Website Comments
                          Website Search
                          Internal Applications



   Background Check Requirement



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Background Check Requirement

   All community care license applicants, employees, adults who reside in
   the facility and other specific individuals, identified by statute and
   licensing regulations, must submit fingerprints to the Department of
   Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the purpose of
   conduct a criminal background search.

   Live Scan Method of Submitting Fingerprints

   This is the method recommended by the Community Care Licensing
   Division.

   Live Scan is an electronic method of submitting fingerprints. This
   technology electronically transfers images of fingerprints and personal
   information to the Department of Justice (DOJ) in a matter of seconds,
   compared to the days currently required to send fingerprint cards
   through the U.S. mail. The results of the DOJ fingerprint check are
   sent to Community Care Licensing (CCL).

   CDSS, in partnership with Sylvan/Identix Fingerprinting Centers, offers
   Live Scan fingerprinting services by appointment at each Community Care
   Licensing Regional Office and other convenient locations throughout
   California.  There will be a Live Scan transmission cost of $16
   (effective 7/1/00) for certain applicants, which may be less than other
   commercially available fingerprinting services.  This fee is separate
   from the mandatory Department of Justice (DOJ) fees for all
   applicants.  Your local regional office can answer your questions on
   fingerprinting requirements.

   Please read the following steps to help you understand the Live Scan
   Fingerprint process.

     * The individual fills out the form and calls the Live Scan vendor at
       1-800-315-4507 to schedule an appointment. At that time, the
       appointment scheduler will ask you to provide the information on
       the Applicant Submission form. You will then be given an
       appointment time at a district office. (Note: It is very important
       that if you can not keep this appointment, that you call to cancel
       within 24 hours of your scheduled appointment.)
     * When you go to the regional office, the Live Scan operator will
       already have your information in the computer. You will then have
       your fingerprints scanned by the operator.
     * The Live Scan operator will then inform you of the charges, which
       include all necessary services DOJ, CACI, and FBI (CACI if
       applicable only) and the transmission of prints.
     * After recording the fingerprints and personal information, the data
       will be electronically transmitted to DOJ for processing.
     * DOJ will send the results of the fingerprint check to CCL.

   Statewide Live Scan Application

   You may obtain a Live Scan application (LIC 9163) and instructions (LIC
   9194) by clicking on to the link below. Please check the Internet
   frequently to ensure that you are using the latest version of the form.

   Benefits of Electronic Fingerprinting Include:

     * Faster processing of background checks.
     * California DOJ and FBI fingerprint processing approved.  Visit the
       DOJ Live Scan Applicant Web Site.
     * Electronic printing is clean (no ink) and highly accurate (2% or
       less fingerprint rejection rate).
     * Convenient printing locations.
     * Advance scheduling eliminates delays (must schedule prior to
       arrival at CCLD sites).
     * Credit card payments can only be made at the time of scheduling
       your appointment. Money order or personal checks are accepted at
       the time of fingerprinting.
     * Available for all Community Care Licensing applicants and care
       facility employees, TrustLine and adoption applicants.
     * California Child Abuse Central Index Checks also available.

   How to Schedule:

   All Live Scan appointments must be scheduled prior to arriving at CCLD
   sites. Please have your Live Scan application completed before calling
   1-800-315-4507.  Time slots are available in convenient five-minute
   increments to fit your schedule.  If you are a large organization and
   you are interested in setting up a billing account you may do so by
   calling the above (800) phone number.

   Card Method of Submitting Fingerprints:

   Another method of submitting fingerprints is by using a fingerprint
   card. If you choose to use the card method, you must submit one
   complete FD 258 (CCL) fingerprint card for each person. The card will
   be used for both a California and an FBI criminal background check. The
   card must be sent directly to the Department of Justice. If you are an
   applicant, do not send the card until you have received a letter from
   the Department telling you that your application has been accepted and
   have been assigned a facility number. Be sure to include the
   appropriate processing fee (see link below). Do not fold or staple the
   card.

   You may order fingerprint cards through the CDSS Warehouse. You may
   download the request form by clicking on the Forms Request for your
   specific facility type below. Fax or mail your request to the CDSS
   Warehouse, P.O. Box 980788, West Sacramento, CA 95798. The fax number
   for the CDSS Warehouse is (916) 371-3518.

   Related links:

     * Alert! - Child Day Care
     * Live Scan Application Form
     * Live Scan Application Form Instructions
     * Applicant Child Abuse Central Index Check
     * Live Scan Locations and Hours
     * Live Scan Fees
     * Criminal Record Exemption Process
     * LIC 183 Forms Request - Children's Residential (Group Home, Small
       Family Home & Foster Family Home)
     * LIC 183A Forms Request - Adult Facilities Only
     * LIC 183B Forms Request - Residential Care Facilities for the
       Elderly
     * LIC 183C Forms Request - Child Care Programs (Child Care Centers,
       Family Child Care Homes)

                             Back to Top of Page

            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
