http://egov.gov/cross_agency_portals.htm

   GSA Logo   Skip past Home GSA

                                       egov logo Picture of the American flag


   Home

       Privacy & Security

                         FAQs

                             About Us

                                     Staff

                                          Search

                                                Site Map

   Related Links

   Students.gov

   Access for Seniors

   ARNET

   Federal Commons link skipping group

   Program Partners

   Cross-Agency Community-based Web Portals

   GSA OGP provides leadership across Government to build cross-agency web
   portals and services for common customer groups. GSA OGP supports
   development of cross-agency web portals involving more than 40 Federal
   agencies for business, the elderly, disabled, students, workers and
   taxpayers. A sample of cross-agency portals, visible entry points on
   the GSA Firstgov portal, includes:
     * FedForms.gov provides "one-stop-shopping" for Federal forms most
       used by the public.

     * Students.gov, the student gateway to the U.S. government

     * Seniors.gov, maintained by the Social Security Administration for
       information on health, retirement and security information at one
       location.

     * ARNET.gov, the portal for Federal acquisition professionals

     * GovSales.gov, portal for Federal agency asset sales worldwide.

   GSA is leading an inter-governmental project "Doing Business in
   America" to create a single place on the Internet for people to access
   information on business registration and reporting requirements. The
   Chief Information Office's (CIO) Council and the National Association
   of State CIOs are sponsoring a project to develop a proof of concept
   for a small business registration portal to reduce the paperwork when
   it comes to registering a business, researching and registering company
   names, applying for an employer identification number and other
   requirements for starting a new business. It will allow small
   businesses to electronically register and obtain licenses and permits
   from federal, state and local governments. It will be available through
   web pages of participating states and through www.business.gov,
   www.employers.gov, and www.firstgov.gov. The business registry will go
   into operation next year if GSA can secure additional funding to
   support the operation. For more information, contact Barry West, at
   202-208-3584, barry.west@gsa.gov.

           Home | Privacy & Security | About Us | Staff | Site Map
                  Contact Us | Search | Privacy Information

   Accessibility 10/30/2001 OGP-CIO
