http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/news/press/khan_8_01.asp

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   CCR News Desk


   CCR Press
   •  New High-Tech Tool Helps Diagnose Cancer
   •  Drs. I. Pastan and R. Kreitman publish results with BL-22
   •  CCR is highlighted in JNCI
   •  Cancer vaccines in CCR
   •  Targeted Toxins Begin to Live Up to Early Expectations


   CCR Scientists Develop Cancer Diagnostic Tool Utilizing Microarray
   Technology and Artificial Neural Networks

   Scientists at the National Cancer Institute's Center for Cancer
   Research and the National Human Genome Research Institute have
   developed a new model for diagnosing cancer using artificial neural
   networks, a form of artificial intelligence, and microarray technology.
   Their work was highlighted on the cover of the June issue of Nature
   Medicine [abstract].

   Javed Khan, M.D. and colleagues, focused experiments of the model on
   small round blue cell tumors (SRBCT), a family of childhood tumors that
   includes neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and
   Ewing tumors, which all appear similar on routine histology tests and
   are therefore difficult to discern from each other. Correctly
   categorizing the different tumors is essential because the treatment
   options and possible outcomes for patients differ greatly among the
   SRBCT tumor types.

   Currently, no single diagnostic test can distinguish among these four
   cancers. In clinics, techniques such as immunohistochemistry,
   cytogenetics, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization, and
   reverse transcription PCR are used. Each technique investigates one or
   two characteristics of a tumor and therefore gives partial, but not
   sufficient information to confirm the diagnosis. The model correctly
   classified 20 blinded samples of SRBCT and rejected 5 non-SRBCT samples
   suggesting the possible use of these methods in routine diagnosis.

   By using microarray technology, multiple tumor characteristics can be
   detected with a single technique. Microarrays can describe the
   expression of thousands of genes—whether each gene is turned off or on,
   and how much of it is expressed. By testing a microchip containing DNA
   from the genes, this technique reports the expression of each gene as a
   color change. The intensity of the color describes how much the gene is
   being expressed.

   To recognize the pattern hidden in the thousands of color changes, Khan
   and his colleagues used artificial neural networks, computer-based
   algorithms that are designed to behave like the human brain. "The
   reason we used the artificial neural network is that it is perfect for
   doing what we wanted to do: to look at complex patterns and be able to
   train a network to recognize a particular pattern for a particular
   cancer," said Khan, "It basically works just like a brain. It learns
   features that are specific for a cancer and ignores noise."

   The scientists first needed to train the network to recognize the
   different patterns. To do this, they used 63 known samples. The
   scientists initially used principal component analysis to look for the
   maximum variation between all samples, and then used this data as input
   to train the neural nets—the training process was repeated again and
   again. Eventually, the network identified 96 genes that were most
   important in recognizing one cancer from another. Out of the more than
   6000 genes originally used, the expression of these 96 predicted the
   cancer type. "Now that we've gone from 6000 to 96 genes, you can
   imagine taking this straight to the clinic. But you had to find those
   96 genes first, and this is how we did it," said Khan.

   "The thing about a neural network is that sometimes you don't actually
   know what makes it recognize a pattern," said Khan, "It's like your
   brain—you recognize something instantly but you don't know why you
   recognize it. Most neural nets wouldn't report why it recognized a
   sample as a certain cancer. But working with Markus Ringnér, a Swedish
   scientist, we were able to work out a method to identify those genes
   that the neural net used to make those decisions. It tells us, in
   order, the most significant genes in terms of the classification.
   That's not something it normally does," said Khan.

   By identifying the genes it uses to classify the cancers, the network
   is reporting genes that may be important in the SRBCT family of
   childhood cancers. Some of these genes had previously been reported as
   important in these cancers, but others had not and some of the 96 genes
   had never been identified. Learning what these unknown genes are and
   how they work will help in the understanding and, eventually, the
   treatment of these cancers. "It's really exciting. We hope our report
   will ignite the research community to investigate many of these genes
   and are investigating several ourselves," said Khan.

   In addition to its use as a diagnostic tool and as a way to identify
   genes involved in cancer development, there are many other possible
   uses for this technology that have not yet been explored. One
   possibility would be to predict the prognosis and treatment of a
   patient. "In breast cancer and pediatric cancers, we often see two
   patients with exactly the same cancer, the same histology, the same
   stage," explained Khan, "And then one person responds to treatment and
   the other doesn't. We are hoping to use this to see if we can
   clinically stage a patient's tumor as well as predict the outcome."

   Another potential use is the diagnosis of secondary (metastatic)
   cancers where the primary source cannot be identified. "Adult patients
   can sometimes come in with a swollen lymph node but then you can't find
   where the original tumor is. That actually happened to my father," said
   Khan, "It would be interesting to use it to diagnose these cancers of
   unknown origins."

   "It has to improve and it has to be repeated," Khan said, "But we're
   hoping to do prospective trials. A lot of the trials we are writing up
   include this type of work."

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
