http://www.bphc.hrsa.dhhs.gov/mailerto.htm

    BPHC-The People we serve... The People we are. Send your Feedback to
                                    BPHC
       Please use one of the email addresses below.   For the fastest
    response, review the list and choose the email address that fits best
     with your question.    Before sending email, consult our Frequently
        Asked Questions list to see if your question is on the list.

    Technical problems or questions regarding the site: bcatron@hrsa.gov
    NOTE: If you are notifying the webmaster about a problem on the site,
   please include the URL (web address) of the page that has the problem.
         This will help us fix the problem immediately.  Thank you!

                   Community Health Centers: chc@hrsa.gov
                  Models That Work program: models@hrsa.gov
                National Health Service Corps: nhsc@hrsa.gov
                    Policy and Legislation: oppd@hrsa.gov
               Scholarships and Loan Repayment: nhsc@hrsa.gov
                     Shortage Designation: sdb@hrsa.gov
        Health Centers for Special Populations: specialpops@hrsa.gov

      You may email us other comments or questions at feedback@hrsa.gov

                         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

      Q.  I can't afford health care or health insurance.  Where can I
                            receive medical care?
    A.  Consult our Health Center Database for a nationwide directory of
                                  clinics.

     Q.  I'm interested in your Scholarship and Loan Repayment Programs.
      A.  Those programs are part of the National Health Service Corps,
            which has moved to the Bureau of Health Professions.

           Q.  I'm looking for Health Professional Shortage Areas.
              A.  We have an online database of HPSAs as well.

                   Q.  Do you have other online databases?
                       A.  Yes, they are listed here.

                        Return to the BPHC home page

                      Return to our Programs Directory
