http://commercial.hq.nasa.gov/new.html


   Animation-Fading images of the Space Station, Computer Chip, Nuclear
   Plant, Satellite, Plants, and Mother & Child
   Site Map
   Commercial Opportunity
   Submitting Offers
   Intellectual Property Protection
   Pricing
   Agreements
   Research & Development
   Related Links
   Government Policies
   Reports & Papers
   International
   Contact Information
   What's New
   NASA Insignia - Jump to NASA home site

   ISS Commercial Development

   Watch this space for media information, announcements of signed
   entrepreneurial agreements, new or updated policies, upcoming events,
   and information on updates to this ISS Commercialization Web site.

   SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS

     * Research on Station, October, 2001
       NASA's Office of Biological and Physical Research announces the
       newest section of the SpaceResearch.nasa.gov Web site: Research on
       Station. This new section is a source for information on all
       experiment payloads and research facilities on the International
       Space Station- past, present, and future.

     * ISS Space Commercialization CD Released, January 19, 2001
       ISS Space Commercialization CD Cover
        A new Space Commercialization multimedia compact disk has been
            developed for industry and is now available for distribution.
            The CD provides background on ISS commercial development,
            Space Product Development, and NASA Commercial Space Centers.
            The CD provides information to assist industry in
            understanding ISS commercial opportunities, capabilities, and
            activities.
          + View CD Content
          + Request the CD
     * ISS Commercial Development Listserve Established, January 19, 2001,
        An ISS Commercial Development listserve has been established to
            provide updates regarding commercial development including new
            informational products to be distributed.
            Subscribe/Unsubscribe to the Listserve
     * Virtual ISS Released
       Press Release, January 19, 2001
        The Virtual International Space Station (VISS) is an immersive,
            three-dimensional model of the station that is installed on
            your computer. Once installed, you will be able to walk about
            the interior and fly around the exterior as if you were on a
            space walk. The model includes information about the ISS
            capabilities of value to potential researchers.
     * Space Company Announces Space Act Agreement with NASA to Fly First
       Internet Webserver in Space,
       Press Release, October 20, 2000.
          + Additional Skycorp Information
     * NASA Creates New Enterprise Focusing on Biology,
       Press Release, September, 2000.
     * Dreamtime Delivers Cutting Edge TV Technology,
       Press Release, September 27,2000.
          + Additional Dreamtime information
     * NASA and VIRAGEN, Inc. sign agreement regarding biotechnology
       technology, June, 2000
     * NASA Request for Entrepreneurial Offers Related to the Commercial
       Development and Use of the ISS - No Closing Date

   MEDIA INFORMATION
     * NASA Newsroom: includes info on subscribing to NASA News Release
       Listserve

   UPCOMING EVENTS

   COMPLETED EVENTS
     * International Space Station Forum 2001,
       June 5-7, Berlin, Germany
       ISS FORUM 2001 will review the plans and opportunities for using
       the ISS. The European Space Agency, as one of the five partners
       (ESA, NASA, Rosaviakosmos, CSA, and NASDA) developing and operating
       the space station, and the German Space Agency (DLR), invite all
       interested parties to the forum. The ISS Forum 2001 will be
       followed by a global conference in the year 2002 dealing
       exclusively with commercialization and business on the ISS.
     * International Space Station: Price Structure and Schedule for U.S.
       Resources and Accommodations, Released February 28, 2000
     * Two Documents Released:
          + ISS User's Guide (Release 2.0)
          + 1999 Space Product Development Annual Report
     * International Space Station Live, National Teleconferences:
          + ISS: Ventures in Space
            February 24, 2000, 12:30-2:00 PM (ET).
            A live, free, interactive satellite program produced by NASA
            specifically for research and development professionals and
            managers in industry and academia. The program will explore
            the tremendous opportunities that the new space frontier is
            creating for business, industry, and academia. A diverse panel
            of top NASA, university and commercial researchers, investors,
            and other experts that will take your questions and comments
            on the air.
          + ISS: Expedition 2000
            February 17, 2000, 12:30-2:00 PM (ET).
            A live, free, interactive satellite program produced by NASA
            specifically for middle and high school students. The program
            features top NASA scientists, engineers, and astronauts and
            will provide students real-world examples of math and science
            applications throughout the space program. During the event,
            NASA experts will take phone calls, faxes and email from
            students.
       If you missed the conferences, you can learn how to purchase
       videotapes by visiting the respective Web sites.
     * multimedia.nasa.gov
       This page presents information for potential NASA commercial
       partners, particularly in the areas of HDTV, documentary and
       educational programming, internet, public service sponsorships,
       NASA film and photo archives, and ground-based multimedia
       production services relating to the exploration and development of
       space. Due date for offers was January 31, 2000.
     * International Space Station Utilization Conference:
       January 30 - February 3, 2000.
       NASA co-sponsored an International Space Station Utilization
       Conference as part of the Space Technology and Applications
       International Forum (STAIF-2000) in Albuquerque, N.M. More than 20
       sessions covered all major research areas to be explored on the
       station --including biotechnology, biomedicine, gravitational
       biology, materials science, fluid physics, combustion research,
       space science, earth science and engineering research.
       Papers from the Utilization Conference related to ISS commercial
       development are available on the Reports & Papers page.

   WHAT'S NEW WITH THE ISS COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT WEB SITE
     * First Release of the ISS Commercialization Web Site
       January, 2000
     * New Web Site Design Released April 27, 2000
     * New Agreements section added June 28, 2000

   [ Make Comments | Web Policies | Content Manager | Home ]
