http://www.orb.uscourts.gov/ORB/documents.nsf/frequently+asked+questions?OpenView

   Court Home Site Help Search entire site
   [0.16FC?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]

   Calendar
   Court Fee List
   Local Rules,Orders,Forms
   Creditors Preferred Addresses
   Frequently Asked Questions
   Clerk
   Opinions
   Acceptable Petition Forms / Software
   Registered Agent List
   Unclaimed Funds Report

   United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Oregon
   Frequently Asked Questions

   1  How do I obtain general court or case information?
   2  Who can start a bankruptcy?
   3  A company or person who owes us money has filed bankruptcy. What do
      we do?
   4  I am getting mail from the court and don't know why or who this
      person/company is. What do I do with these documents/notices?
   5  Do I need an attorney to file bankruptcy?
   6  Do I need to send a copy of the petition to anyone else?
   7  What is an "Automatic Stay"?
   8  How do I file for Relief from the Automatic Stay?
   9  How do I find out who the trustee is in a case?
   10 How do I get a hearing date?
   11 How do I get admitted to practice in the Bankruptcy Court or apply
      to appear in a case pro hac vice?
   12 How do I get certified copies of documents?
   13 How do I get copies of documents?
   14 What are the consequences of filing for bankruptcy?
   15 What does the case number tell me?
   16 What if I don't agree with an Order entered in a case?
   17 What if the case I am interested in has been closed or archived in
      Seattle?
   18 What is a ยง341(a) meeting or meeting of creditors? What can I expect
      will happen there?
   19 I received two notices for the first meeting of creditors. Do I have
      to attend both meetings?`
   20 What is a bankruptcy discharge and what is the difference between
      denial of discharge and a debt being non-dischargeable?
   21 Why is the discharge date after the closing date?
   22 What is an adversary proceeding and how do I file a complaint?
   23 What is the difference between chapters?
   24 What is the function of the U.S. Trustee and where is their office
      located?
   25 Where can I obtain petition forms?
   26 Where do I file?
   27 Where do I get a copy of the Local Rules for the Bankruptcy Court
      (also known as LBRs or Local Bankruptcy Rules )?
   28 Who do I notify about a possible fraudulent filing?
   29 How much are the court fees to file a bankruptcy?
   30 What happens after I file bankruptcy?
   31 I filed a proof of claim, why am I not getting paid?
   32 I filed an objection to the Plan. Why was the plan still confirmed?
   33 What does it mean if a case is dismissed?
   34 What is a reaffirmation agreement?
   35 What is a redemption?
   36 What can I do if a creditor keeps trying to collect money after I
      have filed bankruptcy?
   37 How do I change or correct information in the petition, schedules
      and statements I have already filed with the Clerk's Office?
   38 What is the wording for a certificate of service?
   39 My ex-spouse has filed bankruptcy. He/she has listed me as a
      co-signer on a scheduled debt. What can I do? Does my divorce decree
      protect me?`
   40 How many years will a bankruptcy show on my credit report? How long
      will it take before I can get credit?
   41 How do I remove inaccurate information from my credit report?
   42 How many copies do I need to file at the court?
   43 I received a notice that I have a "deficient" pleading. What does
      that mean?
   44 How do I know if a debt is secured, unsecured, priority or
      administrative?
   45 What are exemptions?
   46 Is there any place I can get free or low cost legal advice before I
      file?
   47 What is a bankruptcy "estate"?
   48 What is a "trustee"?
   49 What is the address for the Internal Revenue Service and the
      Securities Exchange Commission?
   50 How do I serve an adversary proceeding Summons and Complaint, or a
      Chapter 12 or 13 plan?
   51 What is the judgment interest rate?
