http://www.coast2050.gov/wetland_creation.htm

                               [LAsmall3a.gif]

   [2050logo.jpg]
   [listtop.gif]

                           One Voice, One Mission



   Public Area
   Event Calendar
   Study Milestones
   Maps
   Reports
   Press Releases
   Survey
   Related Links
   Request Info
   Points of Contact
   LA Wetland Values
   [listbottom.GIF]
   [space.gif]

   [listtop.gif]
   Technical Area

                                (restricted)

   [listbottom.GIF]


   [left_tip.gif] Wetland Creation [right_tip.gif]

   The Wetland Creation/Restoration aspect of the Louisiana Coastal Area,
   Louisiana Ecosystem Restoration: Barrier Island Restoration, Marsh
   Creation, and River Diversion, Barataria Basin Feasibility Study, is
   investigating the creation and/or restoration of wetlands in the
   southwestern reaches of Barataria Basin in Louisiana.

   Purpose:
   The overarching goal of the Coast 2050 Plan is to sustain a coastal
   ecosystem that supports and protects the environment, economy, and
   culture of southern Louisiana, and contributes greatly to the economy
   and well being of the nation.  The purpose of the Coast 2050 strategies
   for the Barataria Basin is to restore and/or protect the natural and
   human environment to create a sustainable ecosystem in the Barataria
   Basin within the context of the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem, including
   coastal Louisiana.  This aspect of the study investigates wetland
   restoration/creation strategies R2-16 and R2-17 of the Coast 2050 Plan
   for the Barataria Basin.  The purpose of this investigation is to
   develop projects to restore and create wetlands in the western
   Barataria Basin so as to protect and sustain the ecological functions,
   the natural distributary ridges, and the local human infrastructure of
   the area.

   Action Area:
   The Barataria Basin is experiencing wetland loss at the rate of
   approximately 11 square miles per year.  Wetland loss within the
   Barataria Basin is attributed to the combination of natural processes
   of sea-level rise, subsidence, herbivory, and the human activities of
   levee construction, channelization, and development.  Freshwater and
   sediment input into the Barataria Basin was virtually eliminated by the
   flood protection levees constructed along the Mississippi River and the
   closure of Bayou Lafourche at Donaldsonville.  The only significant
   source of fresh water in the basin is rainfall.  There is some
   freshwater input into the basin by the siphons located at Naomi and at
   West Pointe a la Hache (each siphon has a maximum output of about 2,000
   cubic feet per second).  When the Davis Pond Freshwater Diversion
   becomes operational in April 2001, it could potentially divert up to
   10,650 cubic feet per second.  It is predicted, however, that the
   sediment-laden waters will collect in the ponding area about two miles
   from the Davis Pond structure located at U.S. Highway 90 and Lake
   Catouatche.  Little, if any, of this sediment would likely directly
   impact the proposed action area.

   The study area is located in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana, and includes
   the marshes along the West Fork Bayou LOurs Ridge and the marshes along
   Bayou Lafourche and LA Highway 1 south of Golden Meadow, as well as
   parts of Caminada Bay, Little Lake to the east of Golden Meadow, and
   Little Lake to the west of Leeville.  In addition to creating valuable
   habitat for waterfowl, fishes, migratory neotropical songbirds, shrimp,
   crabs, and other organisms, the proposed action provides other
   advantages:

   1.   This proposed action potentially provides a low risk and quickly
   implementable plan to address wetland loss in a portion of the
   Barataria Basin;

   2.   The proposed action study area is strategically placed and could
   potentially yield benefits to other coastal resources within the unique
   Barataria Basin ecosystem, and the human infrastructure associated with
   transportation, oil and gas extraction, utilities, etc.;

   3.   The proposed action could also provide additional benefits in
   terms of protection of natural distributary ridges that function as
   important hydrological barriers within the Barataria Basin;

   4.   The proposed action could be implemented independently of the
   remaining Coast 2050 Plan strategies for the Barataria Basin.

   During the Coast 2050 public meetings conducted in 1998, two wetland
   creation strategies, Strategy R2-17 Dedicated Dredging near Caminada
   Bay, and Strategy R2-16 Dedicated Dredging Along Louisiana Highway 1,
   were considered as viable ecosystem restoration strategies.  Hence,
   these strategies will be developed into alternatives for the proposed
   action.  Other alternatives that will be considered include the No
   Action Alternative, and alternatives developed during the scoping
   process.  All alternative plans developed will investigate filling,
   terracing, and sediment introduction, or combinations thereof.
   Wetland restoration/creation design features will be evaluated to
   ensure compliance with current Federal and State laws and regulations.
   Any adverse effects of the alternative plans will be identified and
   appropriate mitigation measures will be included in the plans.
   However, because the proposed action is ecosystem restoration, it is
   not the intent to generate alternative plans that would require
   mitigation.  An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared
   during the feasibility phase because of the potential for significant
   direct and indirect, secondary, and cumulative impacts on the human and
   natural environment

   Wetland Creation Scoping Report (1.93 MB)

   Wetland Creation Notice of Intent - Federal Register: May 5, 2000
   (text)

   Wetland Creation Notice of Intent - Federal Register: May 5, 2000 (PDF
   120 KB)



                         [left_tip.gif] Project Components [right_tip.gif]

                       Click to see full size (190KB)
        Barrier Shoreline Restoration from Belle Pass to Sandy Point

                       Click to see full size (226KB)
                Wetland Creation in southwest Barataria Basin



                         Coast2050 Feasibility Study
     New Orleans District of the US Army Corps of Engineers   Louisiana
                       Department of Natural Resources
    Site Maintained by US Geological Survey - National Wetlands Research
                                   Center

     Please report problems with this site to coast2050@condor.nwrc.gov
