http://it-solutions.gsa.gov/it-sol/utility.nsf/PrivacyStatement!OpenPage

   [GSASeal2.gif!OpenImageResource]

                         "For Official Use" Warning

   This is a U.S. General Services Administration Federal government
   computer system that is "For Official Use Only". This system is subject
   to monitoring. Therefore, no expectation of privacy is to be assumed.
   Individuals found performing unauthorized activities are subject to
   disciplinary action including criminal prosecution.

                         Privacy and Security Policy

   1. Use of Cookies
   ITSS uses cookies to temporarily record the last page you visited
   within your ITSS session.
   This data is used to:
     * Enhance your navigation through the system by reducing the number
       of orders that need to be sorted through to provide you the order
       information you're looking for.
     * Improve the response time by reducing the work the application
       servers must do to keep the views sorted.
     * Return you to your most recent view of the orders after editing
       ITSS documents.
     * Afford us the opportunity, at some point in the future, to design
       enhancements and to plan system upgrades based on the actual,
       observed usage patterns of ITSS features. Cookies, like any other
       method that reveals how an application is actually used by the
       people who use it, are put to their best use in identifying where
       an application succeeds and fails, with the ultimate goal of
       providing a more personal, useful application.

   2. What is a cookie?
   A cookie is a small piece of information that is sent to your browser
   -- along with a Web page -- when you access a Web site. Your browser
   will only return this cookie information to the Internet site where the
   cookie originated (in this case, it-solutions.gsa.gov). No other site
   can request it. All cookies have an expiration date and time, after
   which the browser stops sending the cookie. The cookies used by ITSS
   expire as soon as the browser is shut down. This means that you will
   receive a new cookie each time you log into ITSS, that is then thrown
   away when you close your browser.
   3. Personalization
   ITSS users must "register" in order to effectively use the application.
   If you provide personally identifying information when registering to
   use ITSS, that information is only used to deliver ITSS-specific
   content to you. The information is never shared with any third party.
   We want to make it clear that we will not obtain personally identifying
   information about you when you visit our site, unless you choose to
   provide such information to us. Except for authorized law enforcement
   investigations, or as otherwise required by law, we do not share any
   information we receive with any outside parties.
   4. Security
   For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
   available to all users, GSA webservers employ industry-standard methods
   to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload
   or change information, or otherwise cause damage. Unauthorized attempts
   to upload information or change information on GSA servers are strictly
   prohibited and may be punishable by law, including the Computer Fraud
   and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information Infrastructure
   Protection Act.
   In the specific context of this security monitoring, there is no
   expectation of privacy. However, only in the case of actual law
   enforcement investigations, will we attempt to identify individual
   users or their usage habits.
   If you have any questions about these policies, contact us.

                              Rules of Behavior

   1. Introduction
   The following rules of behavior are to be followed by all users of
   ITSS. The rules delineate responsibilities of and expectations for all
   individuals with user accounts on ITSS. Non-compliance of these rules
   may result in denial of access to the system or other action
   commensurate with the non-compliance activity.
   2. Responsibilities
   The ITSS Project Manager, GSA Federal Technology Service, is
   responsible for ensuring an adequate level of protection is afforded to
   ITSS, through an appropriate mix of technical, administrative, and
   managerial controls. The ITSS system administrator is responsible for
   conducting vulnerability analyses to determine if security controls are
   adequate.
   3. Access Rules
   Access to ITSS is via the World Wide Web at
   http://it-solutions.gsa.gov.
   a) Account registration:
   ITSS accommodates 3 distinctly different user communities. The
   registration and approval process is unique to each type of user as
   follows:
     * Government clients: registration is performed online from the
       it-solutions.gsa.gov web site by selecting "Register as a Client".
     * Contractors/Vendors/Industry Partners: registration is performed
       online from the it-solutions.gsa.gov web site by selecting
       "Register as a Contractor". ITSS registration approval will be
       granted after receipt of a letter on company letterhead that is
       signed by a company official who can authorize the contractor's
       registration on ITSS. The letter should be faxed to the ITSS
       Registration Desk. The fax number is provided during the
       registration process.
     * GSA employees: the Registration Desk, as requested by GSA regional
       points of contact, performs the ITSS registration. Approval and
       access levels are granted after validation in the GSA Name and
       Address database.

   Government clients and GSA employees can be Federal employees, Military
   members, or contractors working on behalf of an agency.
   b) Logging on to an ITSS account.
   All users have a unique User Identification/Account name and password.
   Access to ITSS is granted based on authenticating the account name and
   password entered by the user.
   After 3 invalid logon attempts, ITSS will redirect the user to an
   "Unauthorized Access" location.
   c) Information Accessibility
   ITSS restricts access to information based on the type of user.
   Read-only and read-write access is restricted to the minimum necessary
   to perform the job, and is given as appropriate for the type of user
   and document.
   Clients have access only to documents that they have created, such as
   orders for materials or services; other pertinent documents created by
   GSA, such as the actual purchase orders; and other documents explicitly
   made available by a peer who is registered in the system.
   Industry Partners have access only to documents that they have created,
   such as bids they've submitted in response to a Request for Quote;
   other pertinent documents created by GSA, such as purchase orders; and
   other documents explicitly made available by a peer who is registered
   in the system.
   GSA personnel who are registered in ITSS are restricted based on the
   groups they were assigned to when registered.
     * All GSA personnel have read-only access to all documents in ITSS.
     * Within a region, GSA personnel have edit capability only on the
       regional documents belonging to the same program category they were
       registered for. I.E., employees registered in the FAST program can
       edit FAST orders; employees registered in the FISSP program can
       edit FISSP orders.
     * Finally, GSA personnel's ability to create and act on documents is
       based on the function they perform. For instance, only a GSA
       Contracting Officer can sign a purchase order, and only a GSA
       Funding Manager can assign the ACT # and complete a certification
       of funds.

   4. Application Rules
   a) Passwords
     * Should be changed at least every 180 days. In the future, an
       automated process for expiring passwords will be implemented.
     * Must be a minimum of 8 characters and contain at least one number
       and one letter.
     * Passwords are encrypted for storage in the system; there is no
       ability to look up users' passwords.
     * Account holders must protect their passwords and not share them
       with co-workers.

   b) Account Removal
     * Clients and Industry Partners are responsible for notifying ITSS
       when an employee has left an agency/company so the account can be
       deleted or reassigned.
     * GSA employee accounts are deactivated or reassigned on a
       case-by-case basis at the request of the responsible
       organization/region.

   In the future, an automated process for disabling accounts will be
   implemented and will be based on the presence of expired passwords.
   c) Security
     * ITSS employs the industry standard Secure Socket Layer protocol,
       which encrypts data transmitted between the server and the client
       browser to provide maximum protection of information.

   d) Session Time Out
     * ITSS will not automatically time out your session due to
       inactivity. Therefore, it is recommended you utilize a screen saver
       with password protection. This will prevent inappropriate viewing
       of any material displayed on your screen after some period of
       inactivity.

   5. Individual Accountability and Privacy
     * Activities while using ITSS are traceable to an individual account
       name.
     * ITSS is a U.S. General Services Administration Federal Government
       computer system that is "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY." The system is
       subject to monitoring. Therefore, no expectation of privacy is to
       be assumed. Individuals found performing unauthorized activities
       are subject to disciplinary action including criminal prosecution.

   [ybgoBack.gif!OpenImageResource]
