http://www.incidentnews.gov/faq.html

   Jump to Page Content

Frequently-Asked Questions


   Home
   About This Site
   FAQs
   Contacts
   What's Related?

   Q. Can I use the photographs from the incident pages?

   A. You are welcome to download and use any of the photos on any of our
   incident pages that were taken by NOAA, Coast Guard, or other U.S.
   Government photographers; these photos are in the public domain, and
   are not copyrighted. Photographs from private sources, such as
   newspapers, are copyright-protected. To use a photo from a private
   source, we recommend that you contact the source directly to ask
   permission to use their photo.

   To download a photo,
     * Windows users: Right-click once on the image you want to download.
       In the menu that appears, select Save Image As (Netscape) or Save
       Picture As (Explorer). Choose the location where you'd like to save
       your image, then click Save.
     * Macintosh users: Click on the image you want to download, then hold
       down your mouse button until a menu appears. Select Save Image As
       (Netscape) or Download Image to Disk (Explorer). Choose the
       location where you'd like to save your image, then click Save.

   Q. To whom can I send comments or questions about an incident?

   A. If you have questions or comments about any incident, please contact
   the Joint Information Center at the phone number or email address
   listed on the main page for that incident.

   Q. To whom can I send comments or questions about this website?

   A. You can send your comments or questions to us at
   ORR.ResponseWeb@noaa.gov.

   Q. To whom can I report a problem with this website?

   A. Please send problem reports to us at ORR.ResponseWeb@noaa.gov.

   Q. How long will the pages for an incident be maintained?

   A. Generally, expect incident pages to be maintained until the U.S.
   Coast Guard determines that the response to that incident is completed.

   Q. Can I link to your site?

   A. You are welcome to make a link to any of our web pages; you do not
   need to request our permission. Note that Incident News
   (www.incidentnews.gov) is a permanent web site, while the pages for any
   particular incident are temporary and will be taken down when the
   response to that incident has been completed.

   Q. Would you link to my site?

   A. We link to web sites of other government agencies, as well as
   research and educational institutions, when doing so helps us to
   provide information about a spill incident to the public. We generally
   do not provide links to private websites.
   This page is maintained by the Hazardous Materials Response Division,
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Revised: December 20, 2001
