http://ferguson.library.ca.gov/html/cslgen2.html


   State of California Website
                                      [clearpixel.gif]
   CSL Catalog
   Highlights
   Library of California
   Only Just Begun
   Connection - the CSL Newsletter
   Gold Rush
   Library Bond Act of 2000
   Linking Welfare Recipients to Jobs
   Proposition 218 After Two Years
   Trustee Toolkit
   LSTA
   Civil Liberties Grants
   Shortcuts
   Home
   CRB Reports
   California Libraries
   California Family Impact Seminar (CAFIS)
   Genealogy
   Library Laws
   General Info
   Mission Statement
   Overview
   Location/Hours
   Staff
   Jobs at the California State Library
   Search Site

   California State Library
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   Gold Bar

   Overview of the California State Library

   The California State Library is a multifaceted agency offering a
   variety of services to a wide-range of clientele.

   Services to the Public

   The State Library makes available directly or through local public
   libraries a variety of services to all Californians. These range from
   California historical documents, to California legislation, to books in
   braille and recorded formats, to English language literacy programs and
   public access to the Internet.

   Services to State Government

   The State Library is the main research library for state government,
   providing reference and information services to all state government
   and specialized objective and nonpartisan research services to the
   Legislature, Governor's office, and other state constitutional
   officers.

   Services to Local Government

   Local governmental officials can obtain information on current public
   library laws as well as public library planning and statistical data
   from the State Library.

   Services to Libraries

   California libraries receive a variety of services from the State
   Library, including general State Library information services, grant
   programs, consulting services, directories of California libraries, and
   statistical data about these libraries.

   State Library Organization

   Following is a brief description of how the State Library is organized
   to carry out its many programs and services.

   The State Library Service Bureau (SLS) provides library services to a
   variety of library users, both directly and indirectly through other
   libraries. In order to perform its information functions, State Library
   Reference Service gathers, catalogs, preserves and protects materials
   so they may be used easily. Interlibrary loan/reference service
   supplements the collections of California libraries and assists local
   libraries by answering reference and informational questions. SLS also
   supports collections and services dealing with California history,
   government publications, law and state information and reference. In
   addition, SLS operates a branch, the Sutro Library, in San Francisco
   which includes many rare materials, as well as an extensive collection
   of family and local history. Through the Braille and Talking Book
   Library , which is a regional library designated by the Library of
   Congress National Library Service for the Blind and Physically
   Handicapped, braille and recorded books (records and cassettes) and
   special playback equipment are provided to blind and physically
   disabled residents of northern California who are unable to use
   standard print materials. Funds are also provided for the Braille
   Institute in Los Angeles to support the Southern California Regional
   Library.

   The Information Technology Bureau's Automation Services program
   consists of library automation operations, including the integrated
   bibliographic system, the MELVYL catalog system, microcomputer
   applications, specialized application of technology, data
   communications, and related support services.

   The Legislature and Governor created the California Research Bureau
   (CRB) within the California State Library in the 1991 Budget Act. The
   bureau provides objective, nonpartisan, timely, and confidential
   research to the Governor's Office, members of both houses of the
   Legislature, and other state constitutional officers. The Bureau
   provides these clients with research, policy assistance through written
   reports and other documents, consultations, seminars, and other
   training and assistance in preparing legislative proposals. The Bureau
   has five branches: Environmental and Natural Resources; Education and
   Human Services; Economics; General Law and Government; and Information
   Services. It maintains a small office at the State Capitol in Room 5210
   to make reference services conveniently available.

   The Library Development Services (LDS) program provides state and
   federal financial assistance to libraries and provides technical
   consulting assistance to help local libraries extend and improve
   services to all Californians. The primary components of the program
   include: the California Library Services Act, which helps public
   libraries and cooperative public library systems provide coordinated
   reference services and provides reimbursement for interlibrary loans of
   materials and direct loans to nonresident borrowers; the California
   Library Literacy Service, which provides community-centered literacy
   assistance to adults who have missed the opportunity to learn English;
   the Families for Literacy Program, which seeks to break the cycle of
   illiteracy by engaging the children of functionally illiterate adults
   in family-orientedactivities designed to promote reading readiness and
   the joy of reading; the Public Library Finance Act, which is a funding
   formula under which the state contributes funding for basic local
   library services under specified conditions; and the federal Library
   Services and Technology Act (LSTA), which provides grants to libraries
   for innovative library services, technological development, and library
   networking and resource sharing.
   Return to CSL Home Page
       Gold Bar
       Please send comments and suggestions to csl-adm@library.ca.gov
       State Library Administration Office, (916) 654-0183.
       Last Updated January 20, 2000

[clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
                 For site information, please contact the CSL Web Administrator.
