http://sitio.cabq.gov/hot/speech.html

                   Link to City of Albuquerque Home Page
    City Services Environment Transportation Business Services Recreation
                   Jobs Public Safety Visitor Information

                                [spacer.gif]

                       search ______________ in [- ALL -____________] Go

                      Mayor Makes Budget Announcement

    (January 25, 2002) Mayor Martin Chavez announced the following at a
     news conference today regarding the current City budget. Further
                    details will be released next week.

    "I have been struggling with the matter of our budget since the
    beginning of the transition following the December 1 election. The
    solution to any problem begins with a good understanding of how we
    got to where we are . . . and the reasons we find ourselves in this
    present situation are numerous. First, communication between the two
    branches of government was broken. The lack of institutional trust
    and open dialogue has been like two parallel lines extending into
    space, never meeting. It is time for the lines to meet. I am working
    and will continue to work mightily to restore trust between the
    office of the Mayor and the City Council. Second, we have not been
    honest with ourselves as a community about what government can and
    cannot do at its current level of funding. Even after we make the
    easy cuts, the bottled water, the cell phones, postage, we simply
    cannot afford the level of services at our current level of funding.

    Of all the elected offices in this City, only one is charged by law
    with the overall responsibility for all of Albuquerque. That's the
    job I sought and the job Albuquerqueans entrusted me to perform.
    Today I am doing my job. The budget must and will be balanced. The
    days of smoke and mirrors are over.

    As I said during transition, our overall deficit is $50 million
    dollars. Our operational deficit for this fiscal year is $20 million
    dollars. Each week that passes between now and the end of the fiscal
    year diminishes our opportunity to succeed. I am recommending to the
    City Council the following cuts. To balance the general fund for
    this fiscal year, it is necessary that 147 fine Albuquerque
    employees be laid off. Further, 94 positions that are funded but
    vacant will be deleted. 126 vacant positions will be frozen for the
    rest of the fiscal year. Approximately 300 temporary employees will
    not be retained. These numbers are in addition to the 18 recommended
    layoffs, 9 vacant positions deleted, and 123 frozen vacant positions
    in our enterprise funds. The freezes will receive further scrutiny
    as we begin our FY2003 budget discussions in march. I am pleased
    that there are no cutbacks in hours or services at our libraries,
    senior centers, community centers and beautiful zoo and Biopark.

    These decisions are the most difficult of my public career. Layoffs
    have been and always will be my last option. And anyone who thinks
    differently, simply does not know me. But this City is approaching
    the level of a $1 billion dollar corporation. It is time for us to
    step up and make the tough decisions that others around the nation,
    including here in Albuquerque, are having to make.

    There has been much speculation and not a small amount of
    misinformation regarding the budget. Despite representations to the
    contrary, I have met on at least two occasions with the collective
    bargaining units and I will be meeting more this coming week to try
    to find alternatives to some of these layoffs. And while some would
    prefer that we lay off all temporary employees before any full time
    employees, we just can't do that. Amongst others, those temporary
    employees are the school crossing guards and life guards at our
    pools.

    I want to thank the Albuquerqueans who have written and called with
    their suggestions. While many were not feasible for this fiscal
    year, some will find their way into my proposals for the next fiscal
    year.

    Over the next 2 weeks I will host a series of town hall meetings
    around the City to provide more detail on this budget. To all
    Albuquerqueans who agree that the budget must be balanced and that
    it is time for elected officials to step up and make the hard
    decisions, please contact your City Councilors and give them the
    support they need to make the tough choices. Be wary of those who
    have easy solutions. I have looked and there aren't any.

    I want to thank the City Council for their work thus far and I
    respect their roles in this process. I intend to work closely with
    the Council on this proposed budget. In the larger realm, these cuts
    are small, approximately 3% of all general fund budgeted positions.
    But I understand painfully that for the family impacted, percentages
    mean nothing.

    Our department of Human Resources is geared up to provide counseling
    and job alternatives. We care about our employees and want to help
    them in this transition.

    I ran for office promising to restore the vision. I believe in my
    home town. I want to assure all of Albuquerque that if we are
    willing to do what we know in our hearts we must do, the best is yet
    to come. The next 4 years are full of marvelous potential for all of
    us if we just stick together."

                email Contact: Deborah James (505) 379-2844
    Copyright 2000 City of Albuquerque - Disclaimer - Privacy Statement
