http://aeldata.phy.nist.gov/MajResProj/Nanotech/nanotech.html

   Nanotechnology program of the NIST Physics Laboratory

   Nanotechnology is an emerging, interdisciplinary area of research with
      important commercial applications, and will, most assuredly, be a
       dominant technology in new-world economies. As a general rule,
    nanotechnology addresses our ability to understand and manipulate the
   physical and technological characteristics that govern the behavior of
   a class of systems that possess at least one physical dimension that is
   (typically) on the order of 100 nm or less. More importantly, perhaps,
    is that when this is the case, it is often observed that such systems
     may possess entirely new physical and chemical characteristics that
     result in properties that are neither well described by those of a
    single molecule of the substance, nor by those of the bulk material.
    The new properties result from phenomena such as quantum confinement
     that occurs in the nanoscale dimensions, and in many instances the
    origins of the new properties are, at present, not fully understood.
    Our ability to exploit these new properties for practical and useful
     gains lies in our ability to understand the underlying physics that
                                governs them.


   Single atomic zig-zag chain of Cs atoms (red) on the GaAs(110) surface

   Image of single atomic zig-zag chain of Cs atoms (red) on the GaAs(110)
   surface.
     Substitutional Cr impurities (small bumps) in the Fe(001) surface

   Image of substitutional Cr impurities (small bumps) in the Fe(001)
   surface.

   Nanotechnology has tremendous potential to change the present paradigms
    in U.S. industry, including manufacturing, healthcare, materials, and
   electronics and communications, and it offers tremendous opportunities
   for enhancements to U.S. economic competitiveness. Accordingly, NIST is
          focusing on the development of this technology's enabling
      infrastructure by developing critical measurement techniques and
   standards that are essential to the wide deployment of nanotechnology,
         including nanodevices, nanomagnetics, nanomanipulation and
    nanocharacterization. As an example, in order to achieve high-volume
       production rates in the manufacture of nanoscale devices, it is
   essential that the physics governing self-assembly and self-replication
   be well understood. Accurate and precise location of nanostructures and
    the measurement of the forces and kinetics that govern self-assembly
      are needed to permit efficacious implementation of any particular
     manufacturing strategy. NIST is developing scanned-probe microscopy
      techniques that will permit detailed measurement of the physical,
          electronic, and magnetic properties of various classes of
   nanometer-scale structures, including quantum wires and dots. Further,
    we are working on the method of autonomous atom assembly to fabricate
           atomically perfect nanostructures for scientific study.


   Within the NIST Physics Laboratory, the principal scientific efforts in
   nanotechnology are being carried out within the Electron and Optical
   Physics Division and the Quantum Physics Division. The work of these
   two groups is focused on developing a detailed understanding of the
   fundamental physical properties of nanometer-scale materials, and the
   technical challenges that must be overcome in order to synthesize
   useful quantities of nanomaterials and nanodevices for practical,
   industrial-scale applications.     photoresist sample for two different
   infrared wavelengths Infrared (left) and topographic (right) images of
   a photoresist sample for two different infrared wavelengths (2.8 µm
   top, 2.95 µm bottom). The different contrast observed for the two
   wavelengths demonstrates chemical specificity.

   National Institute of Standards and Technology - NIST Home NIST Physics
    Laboratory Home Pages designed and maintained by the Office of ECSED.
                Inquiries or comments: www@physics.nist.gov.
                            Online: February 2001
