http://www-pg.pppl.gov/program.htm

   Research Projects

   Current Drive Experiment-Upgrade
   These pages tell about the Current Drive Experiment-Upgrade and how
   experiments on this device benefit the National Spherical Torus
   Experiment.

   National Spherical Torus Experiment
   Go directly to the NSTX Home Page for detailed information about the
   NSTX Project. For a brierfer, less technical description, see the NSTX
   Section in the Overview.

   National Compact Stellarator Experiment New Item

   Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor
   Go directly to the TFTR Home Page for detailed information about the
   TFTR Project. For a briefer, less technical description, see the TFTR
   Section in the Overview. For a list TFTR accomplishments see TFTR's
   Major Accomplishments.

   Korean Superconducting Tokamak Advanced Research (KSTAR) Project
   Go to the KSTAR page for information about how PPPL and a team of U.S.
   national laboratories, universities, and industrial participants are
   providing support to the Korean National Fusion Program in the design
   of this device.

   Magnetic Reconnection Experiment
   The above link provides a very general description of PPPL's research
   efforts on magnetic reconnection, one of the most fundamental processes
   of plasma physics. For a more complete, detailed technical description
   go to the MRX Project Home Page.

   Theoretical Plasma Physics
   PPPL's Theoretical Group is a world leader in plasma theory research.
   Go to the Theoretical Plasma Physics Home Pages to learn about work in
   this area.

   Technology Transfer

   The PPPL Office of Technology Transfer is the initial point of contact
   for public and private organizations wishing access to PPPL's
   scientific and technological resources. The Office of Technology
   Transfer is prepared to assist industry, universities, state and local
   government, and others in the transfer process.

   Education Programs at PPPL

   Graduate Education

   Program in Plasma Science and Technology

   Science Education

   1999 Earth Week Poster Contest Winners

   2000 Earth Week Poster Contest Winners

   This page originally appeared on the PPPL website, and was recreated by
   Rich Iavarone and Allen Wrigley.
   The last update was on April 8, 1999.
