http://www.ustreas.gov/standards/

   Treasury Seal

                                     U.S. Department of the Treasury

   Standards Homepage

   U.S. Treasury Homepage

   Legal & Privacy Statement

   Standards Press Release

   U.S. Financial and
   Regulatory Agencies
   Commodities Futures Trading
   Commission (CFTC)

   Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation (FDIC)

   Federal Reserve Board

   Office of the Comptroller
   of the Currency (OCC)

   Securities and Exchange
   Commission (SEC)

   Other U.S. Government
   Agencies
   Department of Commerce

   Department of Labor

   Office of Management
   and Budget (OMB)

   International Standard
   Setting Bodies
   Basel Committee on Banking
   Supervision (Basel Committee)

   Committee on Payment and
   Settlement Systems(CPSS)

   International Accounting
   Standards Board (IASB)

   International Association of
   Insurance Supervisors (IAIS)

   International Federation of
   Accountants (IFAC)

   International Monetary
   Fund (IMF)

   International Organization of
   Securities Commissions (IOSCO)

   Financial Action Task Force on
   Money Laundering (FATF)

   Organization for Economic
   Co-operation and Development
   (OECD)

   World Bank

   Other Organizations
   American Institute of Certified
   Public Accountants (AICPA)

   Financial Accounting
   Standards Board (FASB)

   Financial Stability Forum
   (FSF)

   Insol International

   National Association of
   Insurance Commissioners
   (NAIC)

   United Nations Commission on
   International Trade `Law (UNCITRAL)

                        Welcome to the U.S. Treasury
                        Standards and Codes Homepage

   Welcome to the U.S. Treasury standards and codes homepage. The
   following links provide a description of the 12 key standards
   highlighted in the Financial Stability Forum's Compendium of Standards,
   and allow you to download or link to the self-assessments that have
   been completed.
   (requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)
   Get Acrobat Reader

   The Financial Stability Forum (FSF) has identified these 12 standards
   as priorities for countries to implement in order to promote financial
   stability and to help prevent financial crises. The self-assessments
   have been prepared by the U.S. Treasury, other U.S. government
   agencies, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC),
   or private sector bodies. The U.S. Treasury is making these assessments
   available on its website to demonstrate the United States' commitment
   to implementation of these standards in the U.S. and around the world.

   Descriptions of some of the standards that follow are excerpted from
   the pamphlet entitled "International Codes and Standards to Strengthen
   Financial Systems" published by the FSF in April 2001 and available
   from the FSF secretariat.

   12 Key Standards (and Standard-Setting Bodies)

    1. Code of Good Practices on Transparency on Monetary and Financial
       Policies (International Monetary Fund)
    2. Code of Good Practices in Fiscal Transparency (International
       Monetary Fund)
    3. Special Data Dissemination Standard (International Monetary Fund)
    4. Principles and Guidelines for Effective Insolvency and Creditor
       Rights Systems (World Bank)
    5. Principles of Corporate Governance (Organization for Economic
       Cooperation and Development)
    6. International Accounting Standards (International Accounting
       Standards Board)
    7. International Standards on Auditing (International Federation of
       Accountants)
    8. Core Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems
       (Committtee on Payment and Settlement Systems)
    9. The Financial Action Task Force's 40 Recommendations on Money
       Laundering and 8 Special Recommendations on Terrorist
       Financing(Financial Action Task Force)
   10. Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision (Basel Committee
       on Banking Supervision)
   11. Objectives and Principles of Securities Regulation (International
       Organization of Securities Commissions)
   12. Insurance Core Principles (International Association of Insurance
       Supervisors)

   Note: This site contains links to non-Treasury websites. The U.S.
   Department of the Treasury does not control or guarantee the accuracy,
   relevance, timeliness or completeness of non-Treasury sites. In
   addition, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has no responsibility for
   other sites' copyright or trademark compliance and does not endorse and
   product or service that may be offered through one of the non-Treasury
   websites.

   Warning! This computer system is owned and operated by the Government
   of the United States of America. Unauthorized acceess to this system is
   a violation of Federal law. 18 U.S.C. ยง 1035. This system is for
   Official Use Only and is subject to monitoring at all times for
   authorized law enforcement purposes and to conduct system maintenance.

   No information about you is collected on this website.

   Should you experience any problems accessing the documents referenced
   here or links to other pages, or have any other comments regarding the
   operation of this site, please address them to sc@do.treas.gov
