http://www.nfc.usda.gov/ann_GPEA.htm

   Home Download Center Reporting Center Support Center Publications and
   Forms News Products About NFC Contact Information Feedback
                                  Download
                              Center Reporting
                               Center Support
                                 Center Pubs
                         & Forms News Products About
                                 NFC Contact
                                Info Feedback


                 NFC Enables USDA Employees to "Go Paperless"

    The Department of Agriculture is pleased to announce a milestone of its
     commitment to the goals of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act.
       Effective beginning with Pay Period 16, August 12, 2001 all USDA
    employees will be able to elect to discontinue receiving paper Earnings
     and Leave Statements(ELS) mailed to their residence. More than 31,000
       USDA employees have already established their personal page. For
     employees who have not yet requested the establishment of their EPP,
     full instructions are given on NFC's Home Page by clicking Using the
                            Employee Personal Page.

   Listed below are some of the benefits to employees who choose this option

      * Saves Time - EPP eliminates the need to request information from
        agency personnel.
      * Convenient - Employees can access the system 24 hours a day, 7 days
        a week from anywhere in the world.
      * Voluntary - Employees can choose whether they want to receive the
        ELS, but if they do not choose this option they will still receive
        the ELS in paper statement form through the mail
      * More Timely - Earnings and Leave information is available right
        after the payroll process completes - no more waiting for the paper
        statement to show up in the employee's mailbox days later
      * Electronic Filing - No more paper ELS to file or lose. At least a
        year's worth of statements will be available with a click of a
        button. Employees print an ELS when they might need a copy. The
        electronic copies will be retained on line for 3 years once the
        electronic ELS is elected.
      * Secure - Employee data is protected with 128-bit Secure Socket
        Layer encryption when it travels over the internet. It can be
        accessed only with the employee's valid Social Security Number and
        Personal Identification Number known only by the employee.

      The ELS is one facet of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer's
       plan to reduce reliance on paper processes. The ELS addresses the
     requirements of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act and provides
    employees with the flexibility to choose how their ELS is delivered to
                                     them.



                          Go to the USDA Home Page Go to the NFC Home Page

   Home | Download | Reporting | Support | Online Pubs | News | Products |
                     About NFC | Contact Info | Feedback
          Read our Privacy Policy. Send comments and suggestions to
                           nfc.webmaster@usda.gov
