http://carper.senate.gov/academy.html

                                [de-seal.gif]

                                    Home

                            About Senator Carper

                                  Biography
                                 Committees
                                Photo Gallery

                                Press Office

                                  Releases
                                 In The News
                             Opinion Editorials
                                    Votes
                             Audio/Video Clips

                             Legislative issues

                                   Terrorism
                                   Education
                                    Energy
                                  Environment
                                Small Business
                                Transportation
                             Legislative Roundup

                            Constituent Services

                                  E-Mail Me
                              Office Locations
                                  Casework
                                   Seniors
                                   Grants
                             Academy Nominations
                                 Internships
                        Flags Flown over the Capitol
                           Congratulatory Letters
                               Traveling to DC
                        Presidential Greeting Request

                                Write Me At:
                            Senator Thomas Carper
                                 U.S. Senate
                            Washington, DC 20510

                                202-224-2441

                                  E-Mail Me


   Academy Nominations Banner
      Nominations to United States Service Academies

      To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant
      must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Title 10,
      U.S. Code, establishes two nomination categories. The first, usually
      referred to as ``congressional nominations" includes the nominations of
      the Vice-President and Members of the United States Senate and House of
      Representatives. The second, referred to as ``service-connected" or
      ``military-affiliated" nominations, includes the selections of the
      President and nominations of the appropriate service (e.g., Secretary
      of the Army for nominations to the Military Academy).

      In order to be considered for a nomination, it is necessary for you to
      meet all of the general requirements of your academy of choice and for
      you to complete an application package. The application package can be
      obtained by contacting our Kent County Office. That address is noted
      below.

      In addition to completing the application package, it is also necessary
      for you to contact the Academy of your choice to initiate a
      pre-candidate file on your behalf. You can do this by writing to the
      Academy or filling out a post card provided by your school guidance
      counselor.

      Your completed application package (which includes the application
      form, a short essay, high school transcripts, SAT or ACT scores and
      letters of recommendation) must be received in our Kent County Office
      no later September 30 of your senior year.

      Once your application package is received, it will be evaluated to
      determine if you qualify for an interview. Only those applicants who
      meet all requirements set forth by the academy will be selected for the
      interview process. If you qualify for the interview process, our staff
      will notify you in writing of the time and place of your interview.

      Senator Carper's Academy Screening Committee will conduct interviews in
      November. The nomination process is completed by the end of December
      when that academy has reviewed all pertinent information. By early
      January 2002, you will be notified if your name is among those being
      nominated.

      General Qualifications:
        * Citizenship: U.S. Citizenship, or having obtained it by graduation
        * Residency: Delaware
        * Congressional nomination: United States Air Force Academy, United
          States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy and
          United States Military Academy
        * Age: by July 1 of entering year, at least 17, but not older than 23
        * Marital Status: unmarried, not pregnant, no legal obligation to
          support children
        * Academic: Must complete SAT-I or ACT examinations.
        * Must pass academy physical requirement and medical examination
        * Must be of strong moral character

      Your application file must be complete by September 30 of your senior
      yearand must include the following items:

      1. Application Form Adobe Acrobat Logo

      Please be thorough and complete. Be sure to indicate your first choice
      of academy. If you have interest in more than one academy, please list
      in priority order. All information requested on application is required
      in order for you to be considered for a nomination. You may use
      additional paper if necessary.

      2. High School Transcripts

      You must include an official transcript of your high school records.
      This transcript must show your final grades from your junior year, your
      current grade point average and your numerical class rank. If you have
      graduated from high school and are currently attending college or
      preparatory school, please provide our office with official transcripts
      from these institutions.

      3. College Board Test Scores

      The Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or the American College Test (ACT)
      are essentially the entrance exams for the service academies. A set of
      these scores must be received in our Kent County office by the
      application deadline of September 30. You must have taken one of these
      tests in order to be considered for nomination. It is recommended that
      you take one of these tests prior to September in order to provide our
      office the results before the application deadline. It takes
      approximately six weeks to receive the test results.

      4. Letters of Recommendation

      You are required to submit three letters of recommendation. These
      letters should be from people who know you personally and can describe
      your capabilities and strengths. Letters from relatives will not be
      accepted. At least one letter must be from a non-school source.
      Employers, teachers, coaches or community leaders are examples of
      people that you may want to ask to write a letter on your behalf.
      Recommendation letters should not be sent to our office individually.
      Applicants should collect the letters and send them together as part of
      the completed application package.

      5. Essay

      You are required to write a short, typed essay (no more than 500 words)
      describing how the role of the military has changed in the 21st Century
      and how you are qualified to carry out that new mission.

      Please send the above information to Senator Tom Carper, Attn: Lori
      James to any of our three district offices.


        New Castle

    Senator Tom Carper
     Attn: Lori James
   3021 Federal Building
      844 King Street
   Wilmington, DE 19801

       302-573-6291
                                Kent

                         Senator Tom Carper
                          Attn: Lori James
                        2215 Federal Building
                        300 South New Street
                           Dover, DE 19904

                            302-674-3308
                                                    Sussex

                                              Senator Tom Carper
                                               Attn: Lori James
                                                 12 The Circle
                                             Georgetown, DE 19947

                                                 302-856-7690
