http://www.ce9.uscourts.gov/web/OCELibra.nsf/504ca249c786e20f85256284006da7ab/95598dd56e080dbd8825683c00627843?OpenDocument

   [actn020.gif] Home [actn119.gif] Back to list
     __________________________________________________________________

   United States Courts for the Ninth Circuit
   Click here to go to download section

   Ninth Circuit Standing Committee on ADR/Model Local Rule

         Local options are shown in bold italics within [brackets].

   Provisions of the Act are set out in the endnotes with quotations from
                             the Act in italics.

                PROCEDURES FOR ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

                         (Revised December 1, 1999)

                             INDEX TO PROCEDURES

   (a) Introduction Page 3

   (b) Program Administration Page 4

   (c) Selection of an ADR Procedure Page 5

   (d) Panels of Neutrals; Selection of Neutrals Page 6

   (e) Disqualification of Neutrals Page 8

   (f) Compensation of Neutrals Page 10

   (g) Immunity of Neutrals Page 11

   (h) Proposed Order of ADR Reference Page 11

   (i) Integration With Case Management Page 12

   (j) Telephone Conference With Neutral Before

   ADR Session Page 13

   (k) Written Pre-Session Statements Page 13

   (l) For Mediations Only, Separate Ex Parte

   Written Statements Page 14

   (m) Attendance at the ADR Session Page 15

   (n) Confidentiality of ADR Proceedings Page 16

   (o) Neutral's Report That ADR Process Has Been

   Completed Page 17

   (p) Parties' Joint Report After the ADR Proceeding Page 17

   (q) Violations of This Local Rule Page 18

                        RULES SPECIFIC TO PARTICULAR

                                FORMS OF ADR

   (r) Mediation Page 19

   (s) Early Neutral Evaluation Page 20

   (t) Mini-Trial Page 21

   (u) Arbitration Page 22

   Endnotes and Commentary Page 26

   (a) INTRODUCTION.

   (1) Purposes. Pursuant to the findings and directives of Congress in 28
   U.S.C. § 651 et seq., this Local Rule provides parties to civil cases
   in this district with opportunities to use alternative dispute
   resolution (ADR) procedures. This Local Rule is intended to provide
   parties access to the dispute resolution process that best serves their
   needs and fits their circumstances, to reduce the financial and
   emotional burdens of litigation, and to enhance the court's ability to
   timely provide traditional litigation services.^(1) Through this Local
   Rule, the court authorizes and regulates the use of court-sponsored
   [mediation] [early neutral evaluation] [consensual mini-trial]
   [arbitration under § 654, et seq.] [and/or] [other appropriate ADR
   process].^(2)

   (2) Scope.

   (A) Cases Pending Before a District Judge or Magistrate Judge. This
   Local Rule applies to all civil cases pending before any district judge
   or magistrate judge in this district [except that cases in the
   following categories are exempt from presumptive inclusion: _______,
   _______, _______, or _______].^(3) [The fact that a case falls in a
   category that is exempt from presumptive applicability of this Local
   Rule neither (1) precludes the parties to such a case from agreeing to
   participate in an ADR process, nor (2) deprives the court of authority
   to compel participation in an appropriate ADR proceeding.]

   (B) Proceedings Pending Before a Bankruptcy Judge. Parties to
   proceedings pending before any bankruptcy judge in this district also
   may be afforded an opportunity to participate in ADR, but because of
   the unique circumstances that attend proceedings in bankruptcy, the
   provision of ADR services in the bankruptcy court is governed
   separately by [Bankruptcy Local Rules ____].^(4)

   (3) Rules Specific to Individual ADR Processes. While many of the
   provisions of this Local Rule apply to all ADR processes conducted
   under its auspices, there are differences among ADR processes that
   require some process-specific prescriptions. Rules that are applicable
   only to a particular process are set forth in sections (r-u) below.

   (4) Parties Retain Right to Secure ADR Services Outside the Programs
   Sponsored by the Court. Nothing in this Local Rule precludes the
   parties from agreeing to seek ADR services outside the court's program.
   ADR proceedings conducted outside this Local Rule, however, will not be
   subject to the enforcement, immunity, or other provisions of this Local
   Rule.^(5)

   (5) Parties May Request an ADR Process at any Time. Notwithstanding any
   other provision of this Local Rule, parties, individually or in any
   combination, retain the right to ask the assigned judge, at any stage
   in the proceedings, to refer the case, in whole or in part, to an
   appropriate ADR process. Any reference made in response to such a
   request must be consistent with the provisions of sections (c)
   (Selection of an Appropriate ADR Process) and (i) (Integration with
   Case Management). [The court will enter an order of reference only if
   all parties voluntarily agree to the proposed reference.]

   (b) PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.

   (1) ADR Judge.

   (A) Appointment. A [district or magistrate] judge will be appointed to
   serve as ADR Judge of this Court. When necessary, the Chief District
   Judge shall appoint another judge to temporarily perform the duties of
   the ADR Judge.

   (B) Duties. The ADR Judge shall serve as the primary liaison between
   the Court and the ADR staff, consulting with that staff on matters of
   policy, program design and evaluation, education, training, and
   administration. [The ADR Judge shall rule on all requests by parties to
   be excused from appearing in person at any ADR proceeding and shall
   hear and determine all complaints alleging violations of this Local
   Rule.]^(6)

   (2) Director of the ADR Program/ADR Administrator. The [Director of the
   ADR Program or ADR Administrator] shall be responsible for
   implementing, administering, overseeing, and evaluating the ADR program
   and procedures covered by this Local Rule.^(7) These responsibilities
   shall extend to educating litigants, lawyers, judges, and court staff
   about the ADR program and rules. In addition, the [director or
   administrator] shall assure that appropriate systems are maintained for
   recruiting, screening, and training neutrals, as well as for
   maintaining on an ongoing basis the neutrals' ability to provide
   role-appropriate and effective services to the parties.

   (3) Rules and Materials Available. The Clerk of Court shall make
   pertinent rules and explanatory materials available to the parties.

   (c) SELECTION OF AN ADR PROCEDURE.

   (1) Early ADR Selection Process.

   (A) The Parties' Duty to Consider ADR,^(8)

   Confer, and Report. [Within ___ days following filing/service of the
   complaint] [___ days prior to the case management conference /Rule 16
   scheduling conference] [No fewer than ___ calendar days before a
   scheduling order is due under Fed. R. Civ. P. 16(b)], unless otherwise
   ordered, in every case to which this Local Rule applies, the
   parties^(9) must meet and confer about:

   (i) whether they might benefit from participating in some ADR process;

   (ii) which type of ADR process, if any, is best suited to the specific
   circumstances in their case; and

   (iii) when the ADR session, if any, should be held

   The parties must report in their case management statement [or in a
   statement filed separately] their shared or separate views about the
   utility of ADR, which ADR procedure, if any, would be most appropriate,
   and when the ADR session should occur. In these reports or statements,
   counsel must certify expressly that they understand and have explained
   to their clients the local ADR rules and process options and that, with
   their assistance, their clients have carefully considered whether their
   case might benefit from participation in any of the available ADR
   programs. If any party recommends using ADR, this report or statement
   must be accompanied by a Proposed ADR Order of Reference in conformity
   with section (h), below.

   [Option A]

   (B) Designation of Process. After considering the parties' submissions,
   the court may order the parties, on appropriate terms and in conformity
   with section (i) (Integration of Case Management) below, to participate
   in [mediation or early neutral evaluation].^(10) If all parties
   consent, the court may refer the case to arbitration under 28 U.S.C. §
   654 et seq., to a non-binding mini-trial, to an advisory summary jury
   or bench trial, or to an ADR procedure which, by stipulation of all
   parties, has been tailored to meet the specific needs of the case.

   [Option B]

   (B) Voluntary Selection of Process. If, after considering all pertinent
   circumstances, all parties voluntarily agree that referral to a
   particular ADR process is appropriate, the court may issue an order of
   ADR reference to the stipulated ADR process. The order will comply with
   section (i) (Integration of Case Management) below.

   (2) Selection of ADR Process at Any Time After Issuance of Initial Case
   Management or Scheduling Order.

   [Option A] Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c)(1) above,
   at any time before entry of final judgment the court may, on its own
   motion or at the request of any party, after affording the parties an
   opportunity to confer and to express their views, order the parties to
   participate in [mediation or early neutral evaluation]^(11)[and/or]
   [with the consent of all parties, refer the case to a mini-trial, an
   arbitration under 28 U.S.C. § 654, et seq., or an advisory summary jury
   or bench trial, or a specially tailored ADR proceeding].

   [Option B] At any time after issuance of the initial case management or
   scheduling order and before entry of final judgment, if all parties
   voluntarily agree that referral to a particular ADR process is
   appropriate, the court may issue an order of ADR reference to the
   stipulated ADR process. The order will comply with section (i)
   (Integration of Case Management) below.

   (3) Protection Against Unfair Financial Burdens. Assigned judges will
   take appropriate steps to assure that no referral to ADR results in an
   imposition on any party of an unfair or unreasonable economic burden. A
   party who cannot afford to pay any fee normally charged under this
   Local Rule shall be excused from paying or shall be ordered to pay at
   an appropriately reduced rate.

   (d) PANELS OF NEUTRALS; SELECTION OF NEUTRALS.

   (1) Panels of Neutrals. For each type of ADR procedure authorized under
   this Local Rule, the court shall assure that a separate panel is
   maintained of persons who are trained and otherwise qualified to serve
   as neutrals for that ADR process. Only persons who agree to serve on
   the terms set forth in this Local Rule and in any pertinent General
   Orders, and whose background, training, and skills satisfy the
   requirements that the court establishes for the particular type of ADR
   procedure, shall be admitted to and remain as members of the panel for
   that process.^(12)

   (2) Selection of the Neutral. The following procedures shall apply to
   selection of the neutral.

   (A) Parties to Confer about Selection of Neutral and Confirm Neutral's
   Availability. Unless otherwise ordered, the parties must confer about
   and attempt to agree on a neutral at the same time they confer, under
   subparagraph (c)(1)(A), above, for the purposes of selecting an ADR
   process and suggesting the time frame in which the ADR session should
   be held. If authorized by the assigned judge, the parties may nominate
   a neutral who is not on the court-approved panel for the kind of ADR
   process that the parties propose to use.^(13) Before nominating a
   neutral, the parties must have confirmed his or her availability and
   willingness to serve within the time frame they propose.

   (B) Appointment of the Neutral When Parties Agree. If the parties agree
   on a neutral and confirm his or her availability, they must identify
   their nominee in the case management statement [or in a separate filing
   that meets these purposes]. Absent substantial countervailing
   considerations, the assigned judge will appoint the neutral whom the
   parties have jointly nominated and who is willing to serve.

   (C) Appointment of a Neutral When Parties Disagree. If the parties
   cannot agree on a neutral, they shall so state in their case management
   statement [or in a statement filed separately]. Upon being so advised,
   the assigned judge will select an available neutral from the panel or
   order the [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR Administrator] [the
   designated judicial officer] to select an available neutral from the
   appropriate panel.^(14)

   (D) Documents Provided [by the Court] [by the Plaintiff] to the
   Neutral. Promptly after the neutral is designated, [the Director of the
   ADR Program] [the ADR Administrator] [a designated judicial officer]
   [the Plaintiff] shall provide her or him with a copy of:

   (i) the Order of ADR Reference (see sections (h) and (i), below);

   (ii) each party's most recent pleading; and

   (iii) any other order or document from the court file that sets forth
   requirements or stipulations related to the ADR proceedings.

                                   *******

   As an alternative to the paragraphs that make up subsection (d)(2),
   above, the following provision is suggested for courts that elect to
   have court staff assign neutrals to cases -- instead of trying to get
   the parties to select an agreed-upon neutral.

   (2) Selection of Neutral by the Court [Director of the ADR Program]
   [the ADR Administrator] [designated judge].

   (A) Assignment of Neutral from Appropriate Panel. After the ADR process
   that will be used in a particular case has been approved or selected by
   the court, the [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR Administrator] [a
   designated judicial officer] shall assign a neutral from the
   appropriate panel who is available to serve during the period the
   session should be held and who has no disqualifying conflict of
   interest.

   (B) Documents Provided by the Court to the Neutral. Promptly after the
   neutral is designated, the [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR
   Administrator] [a designated judicial officer] [designated counsel]
   shall provide her or him with a copy of:

   (i) the Order of ADR Reference;

   (ii) each party's most recent pleading; and

   (iii) any other order or document from the court file that sets forth
   requirements or stipulations related to the ADR proceedings.

   (e) DISQUALIFICATION OF NEUTRALS.

   (1) Applicable Standards. No person may serve as a neutral in an ADR
   proceeding under this Local Rule in violation of:

   (A) the standards set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 455;

   (B) any applicable standard of professional responsibility or rule of
   professional conduct; or

   (C) any additional standards adopted by the court.^(15)

   (2) Mandatory Disqualification and Notice of Recusal. A prospective
   neutral who discovers a circumstance requiring disqualification shall
   immediately submit to the parties and to the [Director of the ADR
   Program] [the ADR Administrator] [a designated judicial officer] a
   written notice of recusal. The parties may not waive a basis for
   disqualification that is described in 28 U.S.C. § 455(b).

   (3) Disclosure and Waiver of Non-Mandatory Grounds for
   Disqualification. If a prospective neutral discovers a circumstance
   that would not compel disqualification under rules of professional
   conduct or under 28 U.S.C. § 455(b), but that might be covered by 28
   U.S.C. § 455(a) (impartiality might reasonably be questioned), the
   neutral must promptly disclose that circumstance in writing to all
   counsel and to the [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR
   Administrator] [a designated judicial officer]. A party may waive a
   possible basis for disqualification that is premised only on 28 U.S.C.
   § 455(a), but any such waiver must be in writing and delivered to the
   [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR Administrator] [a designated
   judicial officer] within ten days of the party's receiving notice of
   the possible basis for disqualification.

   An alternative to subsection (e)(3), above, regarding waiver of
   disqualification under § 455(a): A party who has not delivered a
   written objection to the [Director of the ADR Program] [or the ADR
   Administrator] [a designated judicial officer] within ten days of
   receiving written notice from a prospective neutral of a possible
   ground for disqualification based only on 28 U.S.C. § 455(a) shall be
   deemed to have waived any such objection.

   (4) Objections Not Based on Disclosures by Neutral.

   (A) One Peremptory Objection Permitted. Each party has the right to
   disqualify one proposed neutral by making a peremptory objection (i.e.,
   without stating a basis for the objection) to that person's
   appointment. The right to make a peremptory objection is waived unless
   exercised by delivering the objection in writing to the [Director of
   the ADR Program] [the ADR Administrator] [a designated judicial
   officer] within seven days of learning the identity of the proposed
   neutral.

   (B) Objections for Cause. Within seven days of learning the identity of
   a proposed neutral, a party who objects for cause to service by that
   neutral must deliver to the [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR
   Administrator] [a designated judicial officer] and to all other counsel
   a writing that specifies the basis for the objection. Any party who
   wishes to take exception to the objection must do so in a writing that
   is delivered to the [Director of the ADR Program] [the ADR
   Administrator] [a designated judicial officer] and to all other counsel
   within five days of receiving the objection. Promptly after the close
   of the period for submitting exceptions, the [Director of the ADR
   Program] [the ADR Administrator] [a designated judicial officer] shall
   determine whether the proposed neutral will serve or whether another
   neutral should be selected.

   (f) COMPENSATION OF NEUTRALS.

   [Option A] Subject to subsection (c)(3) (Protection Against Unfair
   Financial Burdens), above, neutrals shall be compensated by the
   parties^(16) at a rate specified by general order of this court^(17)

   or otherwise by law, or at a different rate if all parties so
   agree.^(18) In every case where the parties and neutral agree to a rate
   of compensation that differs from the rate set by the court, the
   neutral must disclose in writing to the ADR Administrator, before the
   ADR session is held, all the fee, expense, and reimbursement terms and
   limitations that will apply to the service by that neutral. [Any
   neutral may voluntarily serve on a pro bono basis]. Actual
   transportation expenses reasonably incurred by neutrals [and/or
   arbitrators] [will] [will not] be reimbursed [by the court] [by the
   parties].^(19)

   [Option B] Neutrals shall serve without compensation. Actual
   transportation expenses reasonably incurred by neutrals [and/or
   arbitrators] [will] [will not] be reimbursed [by the court] [by the
   parties].

   [Option C] Neutrals shall not be compensated [for preparation time
   before the ADR proceeding] and/or [for the first ______^(20) hours of
   the ADR session]. After [some specified number of ] hours in session,
   the neutral may [continue to serve without compensation] or [give the
   parties the option of concluding the proceeding or paying the neutral
   for additional time] at [a mutually agreeable hourly rate] or [at an
   hourly rate fixed by General Order of this court]. In every case where
   the parties and the neutral agree to a rate of compensation for time
   the neutral commits after the first ______ hours of session that
   differs from the rate set by the court, the neutral must disclose in
   writing to the ADR Administrator all the fee, expense, and
   reimbursement terms and limitations to which the parties and neutral
   have agreed. This written disclosure must be made no more than ten days
   after the agreement about compensation is reached. Actual
   transportation expenses reasonably incurred by neutrals [and/or
   arbitrators] [will] [will not] be reimbursed [by the court] [by the
   parties].

   (g) IMMUNITY OF NEUTRALS. All persons serving as neutrals under this
   Local Rule are deemed to be performing quasi-judicial functions and are
   entitled to the immunities and protections that the law accords to
   persons serving in such capacity.^(21)

   (h) PROPOSED ORDER OF ADR REFERENCE.

   (1) File with Case Management Statement. If any party recommends using
   ADR, pursuant to section (c) of this Local Rule, Counsel must attach to
   their Case Management Statement (or to the statement they file
   separately to comply with this Local Rule) a Proposed Order of ADR
   Reference.

   (2) Contents of Proposed Order. The Proposed Order of ADR Reference
   must:

   (A) identify the type of ADR process that the parties have agreed is
   most appropriate for their circumstances;

   (B) [identify by name and organizational affiliation the available
   neutral whom they nominate to serve in their case];^(22)

   (C) if different from rates or terms fixed by the court, specify the
   proposed rate of compensation for the neutral, terms for reimbursement
   of the neutral's expenses, and any proposed limitations on compensation
   or expense reimbursement;

   (D) specify the time frame within which they propose the ADR process
   will be completed and the date by which the neutral must file written
   confirmation of that completion; and

   (E) suggest and explain any modifications or additions to the case
   management plan that would be advisable because of the reference to
   ADR.

   (i) INTEGRATION WITH CASE MANAGEMENT

   (1) Contents of Order of ADR Reference. Every order referring a case to
   an ADR process under this Local Rule must specify:

   (A) the ADR process to be used;

   (B) [if known, the identity of the neutral who will serve in the
   case];^(23)

   (C) if different from rates or terms fixed by generally applicable rule
   or order, specify the rate of compensation for the neutral, terms for
   reimbursement of the neutral's expenses, and any limitations on
   compensation or expense reimbursement;

   (D) the dates by which the ADR proceedings must be completed and by
   which the neutral must file a confirmation of that completion;

   (E) the date by which the parties must notify the court, in a jointly
   filed statement, whether all or part of the case has been resolved; and

   (F) any pretrial activity, e.g., specified discovery or motions, that
   shall be completed before the ADR session is held or that shall be
   stayed until the ADR session is concluded.

   (2) Protection Against Unreasonable Delay. In fixing deadlines in its
   Order of ADR Reference, the referring court will assure that the time
   allotted for completing the ADR process is no more than is appropriate
   and that the referral does not cause unreasonable delay in case
   development, in hearing motions, or in commencing trial.

   (3) Assigned Judge's Continuing Responsibility for Case Management.
   Neither the parties' agreement to participate in an ADR procedure nor
   the court's referral of an action to ADR shall reduce the assigned
   judge's power and responsibility to maintain overall management control
   of a case before, during, and after the pendency of an ADR process.

   (j) TELEPHONE CONFERENCE WITH NEUTRAL BEFORE ADR SESSION. Promptly
   after being appointed to serve in a case, the neutral shall hold a
   brief joint telephone conference with all counsel to discuss:

   (1) fixing a convenient date and place for the session;

   (2) the procedures that will be followed during the session;

   (3) who shall attend the session on behalf of each party;

   (4) what material or exhibits should be provided to the neutral before
   the session or brought by the parties to the session;

   (5) any issues or matters that it would be especially helpful to have
   the parties address in their written pre-session statements;

   (6) page limitations for the pre-session statements; and

   (7) any other matters that might enhance the utility of the ADR
   proceeding.

   (k) WRITTEN PRE-SESSION STATEMENTS

   (1) Deadline for Submission. No later than ten calendar days before the
   first ADR session, each party must serve on all other parties and
   deliver directly to the neutral a written ADR statement.

   (2) Prohibition Against Filing. The parties' written ADR statements
   must not be filed and the assigned judge shall not have access to them.

   (3) Content of Statement. Unless otherwise approved by the neutral
   during a telephone conference under section (j), above, each ADR
   statement must:

   (A) not exceed the number of pages allowed by the neutral;

   (B) identify by name and title or position:

   (i) the person(s) with decision-making authority who, in addition to
   counsel, will attend the ADR session on behalf of the party; and

   (ii) person(s) connected with a party opponent, if known, whose
   presence at the ADR session might substantially improve the
   productivity of the proceeding;

   (C) describe briefly the substance of the litigation, addressing key
   liability and damages issues and discussing the most significant
   evidence;

   (D) identify any discovery or motion activity that is likely either to
   significantly affect the scope of the litigation or to enhance the
   parties' ability to assess the case's settlement value or, for other
   reasons, to improve prospects for settlement;

   (E) describe the history and current status of any settlement
   negotiations;

   (F) identify any other considerations, and set forth any additional
   information, that the party believes might enhance the utility of the
   ADR session; and

   (G) if allowed by the neutral, attach copies of documents likely to be
   useful during the ADR session.

   (l) FOR MEDIATIONS ONLY,^(24) SEPARATE EX PARTE WRITTEN STATEMENTS

   (1) Contents. Only if the ADR procedure being used is mediation, each
   party may submit directly to the mediator, for his or her eyes only, a
   separate, ex parte confidential written statement describing any
   additional interests, considerations, or matters that the party would
   like the mediator to understand before the mediation session begins.

   (2) Timing. Any such additional ex parte written statement must be
   delivered to the mediator at the same time the party delivers the
   written statement required under section (k) of this Local Rule.

   (m) ATTENDANCE AT THE ADR SESSION

   (1) In Person Attendance. All parties and their lead counsel, having
   authority to settle and to adjust pre-existing settlement authority if
   necessary, are required to attend the ADR session in person unless
   excused under section (2), below. Insurer representatives also are
   required to attend in person, unless excused, if their agreement would
   be necessary to achieve a settlement.

   (A) Corporations and Other Non-Governmental Entities. A corporation or
   other non-governmental entity satisfies this attendance requirement if
   represented by a person (other than outside counsel) who has authority
   to settle, as defined above, and who is knowledgeable about the facts
   of the case.

   (B) Governmental Entities. A unit or an agency of government satisfies
   this attendance requirement if represented by a person who has, to the
   greatest extent feasible, authority to settle, and who is knowledgeable
   about the facts of the case, the governmental unit's position, and the
   procedures and policies under which the governmental unit decides
   whether to accept proposed settlements.

   (2) Requests to be Relieved of Duty to Appear in Person.

   (A) Duty to Confer. No one may ask the court [or the neutral] to be
   relieved of the duty to attend an ADR session in person, unless that
   person first has conferred about the matter with the other parties [and
   the neutral] who would be participating in the session.

   (B) Standard. A person may be excused from attending an ADR session in
   person only on a showing that personal attendance would impose a
   serious and unjustifiable hardship.

   (C) Timing and Content of Request; Proposed Order. No fewer than 15
   days before the date set for the session, a party seeking to be
   relieved of the duty to attend in person must submit a letter to the
   ADR Judge [or the neutral] (copying all other parties) that sets forth
   all considerations that support the request, states realistically the
   amount in controversy in the case, and indicates whether the other
   parties [and the neutral] support or oppose the request. [Each such
   letter request must be accompanied by a proposed order.]

   (3) Participation by Telephone When Appearance in Person Is Excused.
   Every person who is excused from attending an ADR session in person
   must be available to participate by telephone, unless otherwise
   directed by the [ADR Judge] [assigned judge] [the neutral].

   (n) CONFIDENTIALITY OF ADR PROCEEDINGS

   (1) Generally Applicable Provision. Except as provided in this Local
   Rule or by 28 U.S.C. § 657 (arbitrations),^(25) and except as otherwise
   required by law^(26) or as stipulated in writing by all parties and the
   neutral, all communications made in connection with any ADR proceeding
   shall be confidential and may be privileged.^(27)

   (2) Limitations on Communication With Assigned Judge. No person may
   disclose to the assigned judge any communication made, position taken,
   or opinion formed by any party or neutral in connection with any ADR
   proceeding under this Local Rule except as otherwise:

   (A) stipulated in writing by all parties and the neutral;

   (B) provided in this Local Rule;

   (C) provided in 28 U.S.C. § 657 (for arbitrations); or

   (D) ordered by the court -- after application of pertinent legal tests
   that are appropriately sensitive to the interests underlying ADR
   confidentiality^(28) - in connection with proceedings to determine:

   (i) whether, if a record or a signed writing is produced that appears
   to constitute a binding agreement, the parties entered an enforceable
   settlement contract at the end of the ADR session, or

   (ii) whether a person violated a legal norm, rule, court order, or
   ethical duty during or in connection with the ADR session.^(29)

   (3) Authorized Studies and Assessments of Program. Nothing in this
   Local Rule shall be construed to prevent any participant or neutral in
   an ADR proceeding from responding to an appropriate request for
   information duly made by persons authorized by the court to monitor or
   evaluate any aspect of the court's ADR program or to enforce any
   provision of this Local Rule. The identity of the sources of such
   information provided for purposes of monitoring or evaluating the ADR
   programs shall be appropriately protected.

   (o) NEUTRAL'S REPORT THAT ADR PROCESS HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

   (1) Timing and Limited Content. No more than five days after the ADR
   process has been completed, and by the deadline fixed in the Order of
   ADR Reference, the neutral must file (copying all parties) a form that
   reports [only] the date on which the parties completed the ADR process.

   (2) Prohibition on Disclosure of Confidential Communications or
   Neutral's Opinions. Absent a written stipulation signed by all parties,
   in making this report the neutral must not disclose to the assigned
   judge any confidential ADR communication or any opinions or thoughts
   the neutral might have about the merits of the litigation, about how it
   should be managed, or about the character of any party's participation
   in the ADR proceeding.

   (p) PARTIES' JOINT REPORT AFTER THE ADR PROCEEDING. By the deadline
   fixed in the Order of ADR Reference, or, if no such deadline was fixed,
   no later than ten days after the ADR session has been concluded, the
   parties must jointly file a statement in which they report to the
   assigned judge:

   (1) whether they have settled all or part of the case; and

   (2) any proposals in which all parties join for case development,
   further exploration of settlement, motion practice, discovery, or
   trial.

   (q) VIOLATIONS OF THIS LOCAL RULE

   (1) Complaints Alleging Material Violations. A complaint alleging that
   any person^(30) or party has materially violated this Local Rule must
   be presented in writing, under seal, directly to [the ADR Judge] [a
   judge who has been designated by the Chief Judge to hear the matter and
   to whom the underlying case is not assigned (the "designated
   judge")].^(31) Copies of any such complaint must be sent to all counsel
   and the neutral at the time they are presented under seal to the [ADR
   Judge] [designated judge]. Any such complaint must be accompanied by a
   competent declaration, must not be filed, and must not be presented to
   the judge to whom the underlying case is assigned for litigation.

   (2) Proceedings in Response to Complaint. Upon receipt of an
   appropriately presented and supported complaint of material violation,
   the [ADR Judge] [designated judge] shall determine whether the matter
   warrants further proceedings. If further proceedings are warranted, the
   [ADR Judge] [designated judge] shall issue an order to show cause why
   sanctions should not be imposed. Any such proceedings shall be
   conducted on the record but under seal. The [ADR Judge] [designated
   judge] shall afford all interested persons an opportunity to be heard
   before deciding whether to impose or recommend a sanction.

                  RULES SPECIFIC TO PARTICULAR FORMS OF ADR

   (r) MEDIATION.

   (1) Definition.^(32)


   [Option A] Mediation is a process whereby an impartial third party (the
   mediator) facilitates communication between negotiating parties
   attempting to reach an agreed settlement of their dispute. In some
   mediations, the neutral may spend some time meeting separately and
   privately with one party or side at a time. When appropriate the
   mediator may also offer an evaluation of the case and/or recommend a
   settlement. Whether a settlement results from a mediation is within the
   sole control of the parties.


   [Option B] Mediation is a process in which an impartial third party
   (the mediator) facilitates communication between parties and assists
   them in their negotiations (e.g., by clarifying underlying interests)
   as they attempt to reach an agreed settlement of their dispute. In some
   mediations, the neutral may spend some time meeting separately and
   privately with one party or side at a time. Whether a settlement
   results from mediation and the nature and extent of the settlement are
   within the sole control of the parties.


   (2) Criteria for Inclusion on the Panel of Mediators. In order to
   qualify for appointment to the court's Panel of Mediators, the
   applicant shall certify that he or she:^(33)

   (A)

   (B)

   (C)

                                 **********

   (s) EARLY NEUTRAL EVALUATION.

   (1) Definition. Early neutral evaluation (ENE) is a procedure in which
   the parties and their counsel, in a confidential session, present
   summaries of their cases to an experienced and impartial lawyer, judge,
   or retired judge, who evaluates the parties' legal positions and
   provides the parties and their counsel with a non-binding evaluation of
   the case. The evaluator may also help the parties identify areas of
   agreement, provide case-planning guidance, and, if requested by all
   parties, assist in negotiating a settlement of the dispute.

   (2) Criteria for Inclusion on the Panel of Evaluators. In order to
   qualify for appointment to the court's Panel of Evaluators, the
   applicant shall certify that he or she:

   (A)

   (B)

   (C)

                                 **********

   (t) CONSENSUAL MINI-TRIAL.

   (1) Definition. A mini-trial is a process containing both conciliatory
   and non-binding adjudicative elements. A mini-trial is consensual,
   non-binding, and non-judicial, as in negotiation or mediation, yet one
   of its primary features is an adversarial presentation of each party's
   case, as in arbitration or litigation.

   In a mini-trial, each party's best case is presented in summary form to
   the parties themselves or to party representatives with authority to
   settle the dispute. Following the presentations, the parties enter into
   negotiations, typically with a neutral acting as a facilitator. The
   facilitator may act as an evaluator of the case if the parties so
   designate.

   (2) Criteria for Membership of the Panel of Mini-trial Facilitators. In
   order to qualify for appointment to the court's panel of mini-trial
   facilitators, the applicant shall certify that he or she:

   (A)

   (B)

   (C)

                                 ***********

   (u) ARBITRATION.

   (1) Definition. Arbitration is a process whereby an impartial third
   party (the arbitrator) hears and considers the evidence and testimony
   of the disputants and others with relevant knowledge and issues a
   decision on the merits of the dispute. The arbitrator makes an award on
   the issue(s) presented for decision. The arbitrator's award is binding
   or non-binding as the parties may agree in writing.

   (2) Criteria for Inclusion on the Panel of Arbitrators. In order to
   qualify for appointment to the court's panel of arbitrators, the
   applicant shall certify that he or she:^(34)

   (A)

   (B)

   (C)

   (3) Standards for Certification of Arbitrators. All arbitrators shall
   be certified to perform services in accordance with the following
   standards:^(35)

   (A) The arbitrator shall take the oath or affirmation described in 28
   U.S.C. § 453; and

   (B) The arbitrator shall be subject to the disqualification rules under
   28 U.S.C. § 455.

   (4) Eligibility of Cases for Referral to Arbitration. No civil action
   shall be referred to arbitration except upon written consent of all
   parties. Notwithstanding the parties' request or consent to refer a
   case to arbitration, the court shall decline to make such referral if
   it finds that:^(36)

   (A) the action is based on an alleged violation of a right secured by
   the Constitution of the United States;

   (B) jurisdiction is based in whole or in part on 28 U.S.C. § 1343;

   (C) the relief sought includes money damages in an amount greater than
   $150,000;^(37) or

   (D) the objectives of arbitration would not be realized for any other
   reason.

   (5) Procedure for Consenting to Arbitration. Any request for reference
   to arbitration shall be in writing, signed by all parties and their
   counsel, and directed to the judge to whom the case is assigned. All
   such requests shall:

   (A) State whether the parties desire that the entire case be referred
   to arbitration. If the parties desire that only certain issues or
   portions of the case be referred to arbitration, the parties shall
   identify with particularity those issues or portions of the case and
   state the reason(s) why such a request should be granted;

   (B) State whether the arbitrator's award will be binding, with trial de
   novo waived, or non-binding, with trial de novo permitted if a request
   therefor is timely served and filed;

   (C) Propose a discovery plan, a timetable for completion of the
   proposed discovery, and the date by which the arbitration shall be
   completed;

   (D) Acknowledge that the arbitration shall be governed by the
   provisions of Title 28 U.S.C. chapter 44, as the same may be amended
   from time to time, and, to the extent applicable, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.;

   (E) Contain a certification that the parties have been provided access
   to materials describing the arbitration program, and that they agree to
   arbitration freely and knowingly;^(38) and

   (F) Provide such other information as may assist the court in
   determining whether to grant the request.

   (6) Conduct of the Hearing; Protection Against Prejudice for Declining
   to Go to Arbitration.

   (A) Unless otherwise ordered, all arbitrations under this Local Rule
   will be held before a single arbitrator who shall have the power
   to:^(39)

   (i) conduct the arbitration hearings;

   (ii) administer oaths and affirmations; and

   (iii) make awards based upon the facts and the law.

   (B) The provisions of 28 U.S.C. chapter 44, as the same may be amended
   from time to time, shall govern all aspects of the arbitration
   proceeding authorized.

   (C) [Option one: The arbitrator will apply the Federal Rules of
   Evidence with respect to all evidence offered by any party.]

   [Option Two: In receiving evidence, the arbitrator shall be guided by
   the Federal Rules of Evidence, but shall not thereby be precluded from
   receiving evidence which the arbitrator considers relevant and
   trustworthy and which is not privileged.]

   (D) The arbitrator shall apply Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 45 with
   respect to subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the production
   of documentary evidence at an arbitration hearing under this Local
   Rule.^(40)

   (E) No party or attorney may be prejudiced in any way for refusing to
   participate in arbitration.^(41)

   (7) The arbitrator shall make his or her award in writing and shall
   file the award under seal with the Clerk of Court promptly after the
   arbitration hearing is closed together with proof of service on all
   other parties by United States mail, addressed to the parties or, if
   represented, to the parties' attorney(s) of record. Unless the parties
   have waived trial de novo, the clerk shall seal the award, and the
   award shall remain sealed and the contents thereof not made known to
   any judge who might be assigned the case until the time has expired for
   a party to seek a trial de novo with no party timely serving and filing
   such a demand; provided, however, that the award may be unsealed after
   final judgment has been entered in the case or the action has otherwise
   been terminated.^(42)

   (8) If, in any non-binding arbitration conducted under this section, a
   resolution of all aspects of the dispute does not result and the case
   proceeds to trial, no reference to the arbitration proceeding, or the
   result thereof, may be made to the trier of fact; provided however,
   that nothing in this Local Rule shall prevent a party from presenting
   or using at the trial evidence presented in the arbitration proceeding,
   if such evidence is otherwise admissible under the Federal Rules of
   Evidence or the parties have stipulated to its use.^(43)

   (9) If trial de novo has not been waived by all parties, any party may
   demand a trial de novo of the issues referred to arbitration by serving
   and filing a request therefor within thirty (30) calendar days after
   service of the award. If a demand for trial de novo is timely served
   and filed, the case will be treated for all purposes, and the trial
   shall be conducted, as if no arbitration had occurred.^(44)

   (10) Nothing in this Local Rule limits any party's right to agree to
   arbitrate any dispute, regardless of the amount involved, pursuant to
   title 9, United States Code, or any other provision of law.^(45)

                            COMMITTEE COMMENTARY

   1. The Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 1998, 28 U.S.C. §§
   651-658, requires each federal district court to authorize by local
   rule the use of [at least one] ADR process in all civil actions,
   including adversary proceedings in bankruptcy, except that the use of
   arbitration may be authorized only as provided in Section 654 of the
   Act. Congress found that there is a continued growth of federal
   appellate court-annexed mediation programs which suggests that this
   form of alternative dispute resolution can be very effective;
   therefore, the district courts should consider including mediation in
   their local alternative dispute resolution program. Section 651(c)
   states that those courts with existing ADR programs shall examine the
   effectiveness of their programs and adopt such improvements as are
   consistent with the Act.

   2. Section 652(a) requires each district court to provide litigants
   with at least one ADR process. Section 651(a) includes early neutral
   evaluation, mediation, mini-trial, and arbitration under § 654 in a
   non-exhaustive list of ADR processes that district courts may consider
   adopting. This listing does not restrict the district from offering
   other alternatives such as advisory mini-trials, advisory summary jury
   trials, or advisory summary bench trials.

   There are two significant questions about the meaning of these
   fundamental components of the statute to which the Committee has given
   focused consideration. The first question is about "outsourcing" -- to
   what extent does the Act permit district courts to "outsource" part or
   all of their ADR programs? The Committee believes that the Act reflects
   a decision by Congress that each district court should be actively
   involved in the design, implementation, and oversight of its own ADR
   program -- and, therefore, that a district court would not be in
   compliance if it delegated responsibility for all aspects of its ADR
   program to some entity or group outside the court. We note, for
   example, that in § 651(d), the Act requires each court to "designate an
   employee, or a judicial officer, who is knowledgeable in alternative
   dispute resolution practices and processes to implement, administer,
   oversee, and evaluate the court's [ADR] program." This provision, and
   others, indicate that Congress wants each court to be responsible in
   fact for the program it sponsors and sanctions -- to assure, among
   other things, that the program is of high quality and that service by
   neutrals conforms to apapropriate ethical norms.

   It does not follow, however, that there are no sub-parts of its program
   that a district court could appropriately "outsource." A court might
   well determine, for example, that to provide its neutrals with the best
   possible training it is necessary to engage the training services of an
   outside entity. Similarly, a court might decide appropriately that to
   assure that the statutorily mandated "evaluation" of its program is as
   objective and reliable as possible it is necessary to engage
   professionals outside the court to conduct an independent assessment.
   Thus, the Committee believes that the Act would permit individual
   courts to "outsource" the front line work that is required to fulfill
   some of the duties the statute imposes. But each court retains, under
   the statute, ultimate responsibility for assuring that the quality and
   content of any delegated work satisfy the objectives contemplated in
   the Act. So before "outsourcing" any task, each court must take steps
   to assure itself that the work by the outside entity or professionals
   will conform to appropriate standands and will achieve the mandated
   ends.

   The second broad question to which the Committee gave special attention
   relates to the role Congress expected magistrate judges to play in the
   ADR programs adopted under the Act. The Committee believes that a court
   clearly would not comply with the Act if its "ADR program" consisted of
   nothing more than making magistrate judges available to host settlement
   conferences. Magistrate judges have been doing extensive settlement
   conference work in many courts for many years -- a fact well-known by
   Congress before it enacted this legislation. No statute was necessary
   to sanction or promote such work -- and the Act never mentions
   settlement conferences. An ADR program that was limited to referring
   cases to magistrate judges for settlement conferences clearly would not
   "encourage and promote the use of alternative dispute resolution in
   [the] district" -- which, according to Congress' express declaration in
   the statute, is to be the primary purpose of each district court's ADR
   program. Moreover, because the Act requires each court to make at least
   one ADR process available to every civil case (except in limited
   categories of cases exempted by local rule), a district court whose ADR
   "program" consisted only of judicial settlement conferences would
   clearly be out of compliance unless it made such conferences available
   in all non-exempt cases. But the district courts do not have sufficient
   magistrate judge hours available to staff any such program -- and the
   Committee believes that one of the purposes of the Act was to free-up
   judge time for other work by encouraging the development of ADR
   programs in which persons other than judges would serve as the
   neutrals.

   None of this means that magistrate judges have no role to play under
   the Act. While Congress called expressly for the creation of "panels"
   of "neutrals," Congress also made it clear that such panels might well
   include magistrate judges -- as long as they "have been trained to
   serve as neutrals in alternative dispute resolution processes." Thus, a
   court could include magistrate judges in its panel of mediators or
   early neutral evaluators -- as long as the court first ensured that the
   particular judges involved had received specialized training in the
   particular role contemplated.

   As the Model Rule makes clear, the Committee believes that magistrate
   judges could play another, very significant role in complying with the
   Act. A magistrate judge might well be a particularly appropriate
   "judicial officer" to be designated to "implement, administer, oversee
   and evaluate the court's alternative dispute resolution program." It
   might be easier to "earmark" a portion of a magistrate judge's time for
   this work than a portion of a district judge's time -- and assigning
   these kinds of larger-scale responsibilities to a judicial officer
   instead of a clerk's office employee might well enhance the standing of
   the program in the community and within the court itself and improve
   its vitality and quality. Assigning responsibility to enforce the ADR
   rules to a magistrate judge also offers significant advantages -- in
   saving the time of the district judges and in insulating them from the
   possibility of exposure to sensitive settlement-related communications.

   3. Each district court may identify here those categories of civil
   cases, if any, that the court has concluded, after consulting with the
   local bar and the United States Attorney, should not automatically be
   subject to this Local Rule.

   Section 652(b) permits courts to identify cases or categories of cases
   in which ADR would not be appropriate and to exempt from these
   requirements those categories of cases. Section 652(b) further directs
   that before deciding which types of cases should be exempt, each
   district court shall consult with members of the bar and with the local
   United States Attorney.

   4. The relationship between the ADR Act and matters that remain in
   bankruptcy courts is unclear. There seems to be a consensus that
   Congress intended the Act to apply to adversary proceedings in
   bankruptcy matters where the reference to the bankruptcy court has been
   withdrawn -- so the adversary proceeding is being handled directly by
   the district court. It is not clear whether Congress intended the Act
   to apply to matters that proceed within the bankruptcy courts.

   The Model Rule encourages bankruptcy courts to provide ADR
   opportunities to participants in bankruptcy proceedings -- but the
   Model Rule does not regulate or govern ADR programs that bankruptcy
   courts establish. Rather, the Model Rule recognizes that ADR programs
   in bankruptcy courts should be regulated by separately crafted sets of
   rules, rules tailored to fit the special circumstances that obtain in
   the bankruptcy setting.

   5. ADR proceedings are not deemed to be "conducted outside this Local
   Rule" when the district court orders the parties to participate in ADR
   under this Local Rule (without their freely-given consent) but permits
   the parties to select a neutral who is not on the roster of neutrals
   that the court has approved. Nor is an ADR proceeding deemed to be
   "conducted outside this Local Rule" when all parties voluntarily
   consent to participate under this Local Rule and the assigned judge
   enters an order of reference approving service by a specifically
   identified neutral whom all parties want to serve but who is not on the
   roster of neutrals the court has approved.

   However, the Ninth Circuit's ADR Committee does not recommend approval
   by district judges of service by neutrals not on the roster the court
   has approved because this practice can jeopardize quality control and
   give rise to immunity issues.

   Courts that permit parties to use a neutral who is not on the roster
   the court has approved should give

   active consideration to requiring each non-roster neutral, as a
   condition to serving, to (1) certify that he or she meets the
   qualifications the court has set for neutrals to be included on its
   roster, (2) take the oath in 28 U.S.C. § 453, and

   (3) expressly agree, in a writing that is filed before the neutral
   begins his or her service, to be bound by the provisions of the Court's
   Local ADR Rule, including particularly (but not exclusively) the
   provisions related to compensation and disqualification.

   6. A district court may delete or modify the last sentence if the
   district determines that requests to be excused should be decided by
   the neutral or by the assigned judge, or that complaints alleging
   violations should be heard and determined by the assigned judge.

   Choices among these options, as with many other decisions under the ADR
   statute, will vary with local practice and culture.

   Some commentators believe that it is unwise to have the assigned judge
   hear and determine complaints about alleged violations of the ADR
   rules, in part because resolving such matters could require disclosure
   to the judge of sensitive settlement communications. And apprehension
   that such matters might be disclosed to a judge with power over their
   case might make some parties less forthcoming during the ADR
   proceedings.

   7. Section 651(d) requires the district to designate an employee or a
   judicial officer who is knowledgeable in ADR to implement, administer,
   oversee, and evaluate the local program. The same section of the
   statute authorizes the designee to be responsible for recruiting,
   screening, and training neutrals. The ADR judge may also serve as the
   program administrator.

   8. Section 652(a) directs each district court to require all litigants
   (except in certain cases exempted by the district) to consider the use
   of ADR.

   The process of "considering" whether or not ADR might be helpful has
   two components -- first, "within" a side (or party) and second, across
   party lines.

   Focusing first on the duty to consider ADR within a party or side, the
   Committee emphasizes that each lawyer has a duty to teach and advise
   her or his client thoroughly about the relative value of each ADR
   option in the specific setting of the case at bar. Toward this end,
   district courts might add a requirement that both counsel and client
   certify (e.g., in the case management statement) that they have read
   specified court materials explaining ADR processes and have discussed
   the possible value of each of the available dispute resolution options.

   One district court, for example, includes the following section in the
   standard form "Joint Case Management Statement and Proposed Order" that
   all parties must submit before the first Rule 16 conference:

   SIGNATURE AND CERTIFICATION BY PARTIES AND LEAD TRIAL COUNSEL Pursuant
    to Civil L.R. 16-6, each of the undersigned certifies that he or she
    has read the brochure entitled "Dispute Resolution Procedures in the
      Northern District of California," discussed the available dispute
   resolution options provided by the court and private entities, and has
    considered whether this case might benefit from any of the available
                         dispute resolution options.

   Dated:_______________
   ____________________________________________________

   [Typed name and signature of each party and lead trial counsel]

   The second component of "considering" ADR involves communication across
   party lines. Generally, it is preferable to involve the parties
   themselves in this communication, but in some instances it may be
   appropriate for counsel to conduct the meet and confer without direct
   client participation. See endnote 9 to this Local Rule.

   9. In this context, the word "parties" does not necessarily mean the
   litigants themselves. While the Committee believes that the litigants
   should play a major and active role in the processes through which
   participation in ADR is considered, the Committee also recognizes that
   in some instances that participation need not include direct
   involvement in the "meet and confer" session that the Model Rule
   requires. When counsel have discussed the pertinent considerations and
   process options thoroughly with their clients in advance, there may be
   no need to have the clients also directly involved in the "meet and
   confer. The wisdom of direct client involvement in the meet and confer
   also may depend on the level of client familiarity with ADR, as well as
   the client's general sophistication about litigation in federal court.
   Courts and counsel must be careful, however, not to assume too much in
   these arenas -- a surprising percentage of clients who are quite
   knowledgeable about litigation (e.g., repeat institutional players)
   think they know more about ADR than they really do.

   10. Section 652(a) provides that any district court that elects to
   require the use of alternative dispute resolution in certain cases may
   do so only with respect to mediation [or] early neutral evaluation.
   (Emphasis added.)

   Within the Ninth Circuit, the only district court that is statutorily
   authorized to require parties (to certain kinds of cases) to
   participate in arbitration under Section 654(d) of the ADR Act of 1998
   is the Northern District of California.

   11. Id.

   12. Section 653(a) requires each district to adopt appropriate
   processes for making neutrals available for use by the parties for each
   category of process offered and to promulgate its own procedures and
   criteria for the selection of neutrals on its panels. Section 653(b)
   directs courts to establish training and credential criteria for each
   neutral panel. These criteria could be set out in a general order or in
   the sections of this Local Rule devoted to the specific ADR processes.
   Examples of requirements that courts might impose for ADR neutrals are
   set forth in endnote 33.

   13. See endnote 5 above, for comments about the use of neutrals who are
   not on the roster already approved by the court.

   14. Courts should consider whether the designation of a neutral should
   ordinarily be done by someone other than the assigned judge. Some
   commentators have suggested that the following kinds of concerns can
   arise when the assigned judge selects the ADR neutral.

   This practice might cause the parties to worry more that the neutral
   will disclose confidential ADR matters to the judge.

   Being selected by the assigned judge might make the neutrals feel more
   pressure to "deliver" in the ADR process -- and thus might distort the
   role the neutral is supposed to play -- e.g., might cause the neutral
   to put pressure on the parties to settle.

   The assigned judge might not have thorough knowledge of the panel of
   neutrals, and so might not make the best informed selection, or might
   tend to appoint repeatedly the same small group -- leading to concerns
   about an elite club of lawyers who enjoy a special level of trust by
   the judge.

   The fact that the judge has selected a particular neutral might be
   construed by other members of the bar as an expression of special
   confidence by the judge in that lawyer -- leading other lawyers to
   question the levelness of the playing field when they appear before
   that judge and their adversary is a lawyer the judge has selected for
   this important work.

   Similarly, selection of the neutral by the judge might lead other
   members of the bar to worry that the judge feels indebted to the lawyer
   who served as the neutral (owes him or her a favor), especially if that
   lawyer-neutral was not compensated or helped settle some of the cases
   the judge otherwise would have been required to try.

   15. In section 653(b) the Act requires each court to issue rules . . .
   relating to the disqualification of neutrals. The duty to issue such
   local rules attaches, under the statute, until national rules are
   promulgated on this subject -- but it is likely to be years before
   pertinent national rules are adopted. "Arbitrators" are the only
   neutrals that the Act expressly subjects to the disqualification rules
   set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 455.

   16. "Arbitrators" serving in programs formerly authorized under Title
   IX of the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act) are
   compensated with public funds, not by the parties.

   17. Section 658(a) requires each court, subject to regulations approved
   by the Judicial Conference, to establish the amount of compensation, if
   any, that each arbitrator or neutral shall receive for services
   rendered in each ADR process. At its meeting in September of 1999, the
   Judicial Conference adopted one binding regulation and two non-binding
   sets of guiding "principles" related to compensation of ADR neutrals in
   court-annexed programs. The regulation states:

   COMPENSATION OF ADR PROVIDERS:

   a. Approve for inclusion in the Guide to Judiciary Policies and
   Procedures the following regulation regarding the compensation of
   alternative dispute resolution neutrals (including arbitrators):

   All district courts must establish a local rule or policy regarding the
   compensation, if any, of neutrals for services rendered under Chapter
   44 of Title 28, United States code, §§ 651-658. Discretion remains with
   the court as to whether that rule or policy should provide that
   neutrals serve pro bono or for a fee. As long as funding is not
   provided pursuant to the Act, the Judicial Conference does not
   encourage courts to institute rules or policies providing for
   court-funded, non-staff alternative dispute resolution neutrals.

   b. Adopt the two principles and accompanying commentary as set out
   [below].

   The recommended principles are as follows:

   (a) Where an ADR program provides for the neutral to receive
   compensation for services, the court should make explicit the rate of
   and limitations upon compensation.

   Commentary: Methods of compensation for ADR neutrals vary widely from
   court to court. Some courts use a panel of neutrals who serve
   completely pro bono. Other courts use a modified program, where a
   certain number of hours are provided free of charge, with a fixed
   hourly rate thereafter to be paid by the parties, while still others
   have a fixed per-case payment schedule. Other programs have left the
   matter of compensation to the participants themselves, for negotiation
   with the neutral. Whatever funding mechanism is decided upon, the
   court's rule should minimize undue burden and expense for parties
   electing to use ADR.

   (b) When an ADR program provides for neutrals to receive compensation,
   the court should require both the neutrals and the parties to disclose
   all fee and expense requirements and limitations in the ADR process. A
   participant who is unable to afford the cost of ADR should be excused
   from paying.

   Commentary: Where courts permit neutrals to charge a fee to ADR
   participants, fee disputes can be prevented through disclosure of the
   fee arrangements. If the court intends to require a certain level of
   pro bono service in order to participate as a neutral in a
   court-annexed ADR program, the level of the pro bono commitment should
   be explicitly defined.

   See also note 33, ¶ 9, below.

   18. As pointed out in the preceding note, at its meeting in September
   of 1999, the Judicial Conference of the United States approved a
   non-binding "principle" urging district courts whose programs provide
   for compensation of neutrals to "make explicit the rate of and
   limitations upon compensation."

   In the spirit of this "principle," the Committee observes that several
   kinds of problems can ensue when courts leave the rate of compensation
   to be negotiated between the parties and the prospective neutral.
   First, the court risks losing control over the rate. In so doing, the
   court increases the risk that the ADR proceedings conducted in its name
   will impose unjustifiable economic burdens on the parties.

   This risk is magnified by the second potential problem: a litigant who
   is "negotiating" with the person who will serve as the neutral might
   fear that the neutral will be angry or resentful if the litigant
   expresses any reluctance to pay whatever fee the neutral proposes, or
   if the litigant proposes a rate of compensation that could be construed
   as ungenerous or unflattering to the neutral. A litigant in that
   position has no real bargaining power -- and would justifiably be
   resentful of being put in this position by a court rule (a position in
   which the litigant could be taken advantage of unfairly).

   Finally, many good mediators feel that "negotiating" a fee can put a
   strain on their relationship with the parties -- and either distort
   their role or make it more difficult for them to build the kind of
   trust from the parties that they need to serve effectively.

   19. Section 658(b) directs that each district court may reimburse
   arbitrators and other neutrals for actual transportation expenses . . .
   incurred, under regulations prescribed by the Director of the AO.

   20. For example, in the Northern District of California, the neutrals
   are expected to serve without compensation for the first four hours of
   the ADR session.

   21. In the Act, Congress explicitly conferred "quasi-judicial function"
   immunity only on "arbitrators." See 28 U.S.C. § 655(c). There is,
   however, case law authority for the view that court-appointed mediators
   and early neutral evaluators are agents of the judicial process
   performing functions sufficiently similar to and integral with the
   judicial function to warrant entitlement to this immunity. See, e.g.,
   Wagshal v. Foster, 28 F.3d 1249 (D.C. Cir. 1994). A good many states
   also have conferred immunity on neutrals serving in ADR programs in
   state courts. See, e.g., Col. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-22-507 (West 1998)
   [Immunity]; Fla. Stat. Ann § 44.107 (West 1998) [Immunity for
   Arbitrators & Mediators]; Ga. Code Ann. ADR VII(B) [Confidentiality and
   Immunity]; Me. Rev. Stat. Ann. Tit. 4, § 1506 (West 1997) [Immunity
   from Civil Liability].

   Immunity is a privilege that should be conferred only when a court has
   met its responsibility to undertake reasonable steps to assure quality
   control over the neutrals who serve under the court's auspices. Such
   steps should include:

   (a) imposing specific background, experience, training, and skill
   qualifications on all neutrals who serve in the court's program;

   (b) establishing mechanisms to assure that neutrals maintain their
   skills and knowledge at an appropriate level;

   (c) providing means by which parties and lawyers can give feedback to
   the court about how the neutrals performed -- and for addressing
   shortfalls in performance by additional training or by removing persons
   from the rosters of approved neutrals;

   (d) requiring each neutral to take the oath of office in 28 U.S.C. §
   453; and

   (e) requiring each neutral to comply with all pertinent
   disqualification norms, including those set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 455.

   22. This provision would not apply if the court, e.g., through an ADR
   Administrator, designates the neutral without earlier input from the
   parties.

   23. In some ADR programs, the assigned judge will not know the identity
   of the neutral who will serve when the judge issues the Order of ADR
   Reference -- e.g., because a program administrator will designate the
   neutral later, after locating someone from the roster who is available
   during the contemplated time frame, who has the appropriate subject
   matter expertise, and who clears the disqualification rules.

   24. The Model Rule provides for submission of separate statements only
   when the ADR process will be "mediation" because in no other ADR
   process is it appropriate for the parties to communicate with the
   neutral ex parte (except about scheduling) before the ADR session.

   25. Sections 657(a), (b) and (c) of the Act govern the confidentiality
   of arbitration proceedings and awards. If a timely demand is made for
   trial de novo, the action will be restored to the docket of the court
   and treated for all purposes as if it had not been referred to
   arbitration, and the arbitration award shall not be made known to any
   judge who might be assigned to the case until the district court has
   entered final judgment . . . or the action has otherwise terminated.

   26. See, e.g., Rinaker v. Superior Court, 62 Cal.App.4^th 155 (3d Dist.
   1998).

   27. Section 652(d) provides that until nationally applicable rules are
   promulgated under chapter 131 of Title 28, each district court shall,
   by local rule adopted under section 2071(a), provide for the
   confidentiality of the alternative dispute resolution process and
   prohibit disclosure of confidential dispute resolution communications.
   National rules on this subject are not likely to be in effect for
   several years.

   The Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2074(b), provides that any rule
   that is promulgated through the rule-making process and that creates or
   modifies 'an evidentiary privilege shall have no force or effect unless
   approved by Act of Congress.' This provision, understood in connection
   with the history and substance of Federal Rule of Evidence 501, raises
   serious questions about whether a district court has authority to adopt
   a federal 'evidentiary privilege' through the local rule-making
   process.

   By contrast, Rule 501 clearly acknowledges the legitimacy of the
   recognition of federal evidentiary privileges by federal courts through
   the common law. See Trammel v. United States, 445 U.S. 40, 47 (1980).
   At least two opinions by individual judges have held that there is a
   federal common law privilege that offers protections to mediation
   communications. See Folb v. Motion Picture Industry Pension & Health
   Plans, 16 F.Supp. 2d 1164 (C.D. CA 1998), and Sheldone v. Pennsylvania
   Turnpike Commission, 104 F.Supp.2d 511 (W.D. PA 2000). But see In re
   Grand Jury Subpoena Dated December 17, 1996, 146 F.3d 487 (5th Cir.
   1998) (assumed there was no federal common law mediation privilege),
   and FDIC v. White, 1999 WL 1201793 (N.D. TX 1999) (trial court within
   Fifth Circuit also assumed there was no federal common law mediation
   privilege).

   28. See, e.g., Olam v. Congress Mortgage, __ F.Supp. __ (N.D. Cal.,
   October , 1999).

   29. To reduce the risks that can attend disclosure of otherwise
   confidential ADR communications to the assigned judge, it generally
   would be preferable to have a judge to whom the underlying case is not
   assigned conduct proceedings to determine whether a party has violated
   a rule or committed some other wrong during an ADR session. Parties who
   fear that their settlement communications will be disclosed to the
   assigned judge are likely to participate less fully in the ADR process.
   And if the case is still being litigated after the ADR session, there
   is a risk that the assigned judge would be exposed to matters that
   might raise concerns about his or her impartiality if he or she heard
   and determined motions alleging violations of rules or other norms
   during the ADR session. If counsel know that such motions will be heard
   by the assigned judge, there also is a risk that such motions will be
   filed for tactical reasons.

   30. The word "person" in this section includes any lawyer or other
   representative of a party as well as any person serving as a neutral in
   a court-sanctioned proceeding.

   31. For reasons described in endnote 29, above, it is generally
   preferable for a judge other than the judge to whom the underlying case
   is assigned to hear and determine motions alleging violations of the
   rules or other wrongs during or in connection with the ADR session.

   32.
