http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/2001-Spring/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                            Spring 2001 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available.

   Date Topic Speaker
   February 26 A Realistic Interstellar Explorer Ralph McNutt
   Johns Hopkins University
   Applied Physics Lab
   March 5 Beauty in Physics and the Accelerating Universe Mario Livio
   Space Telescope Science Institute
   March 12 Earth Observing 1: Validating Affordable New Landsat
   Technology Dale Schulz
   NASA/GSFC
   March 19 New Perspectives on the Control of Cell Division Robert B.
   Silver
   Argonne National Laboratory
   March 26 Optical and Mechanical Alignment of Off-Axis Optical
   Components Such As Those Employed in NGST Mitch Ruda
   Ruda & Associates, Inc.
   April 2 Fly Me to the Moon Richard Gran
   Mathematical Analysis Co.
   April 9 The Robotic Search for Antarctic Meteorites Michael Wagner
   Carnegie Mellon University
   April 16 SNAP - Super Nova/Acceleration Probe Michael E. Levi
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
   April 23 Liquid Nitrogen Powered Car Mitty Plummer
   University of North Texas
   April 30 Nanotechnology for NASA Missions Meyya Meyyappan
   NASA Ames Research Center
   May 7 Bio-centrism and Solar System Exploration Carl Pilcher
   NASA Headquarters
   May 14 Laser Ranging to Retro-Reflectors on the Moon as a Test of
   Theories of Gravity: Does Gravitational Binding Energy Gravitate?
   Carroll O. Alley
   University of Maryland
   May 21 Ultrafast Optical Phenomena Anthony Johnson
   New Jersey Institute of Technology

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
