http://www.fnal.gov/pub/news02/update.html

                          Fermi National Laboratory

   Accelerator Update

   Friday, January 25
   A power supply for a quadrupole in the Main Injector (MI) transfer line
   held off beam until it was repaired at 11:30 AM. At a little after 10
   AM a cold compressor at E1 tripped off and caused a Tevatron (TeV)
   quench. (The compressor takes low pressure, low temperature helium and
   compresses it into a high pressure, high temperature gas. The TeV's
   four miles of tunnel is divided into six equal sections, A through F. A
   quench refers to a cryogenic magnet going from a superconductive
   temperature of 4 Kelvin to normal. Absolute zero is zero Kelvin. One
   Kelvin is equal to one degree on the Celsius scale.) Operations started
   the TeV turn on but then, a little before 1 PM, the TeV quenched at D0.
   TeV shot setup restarted at 6:30 PM, but then the MI quadrupole
   problems returned and put a halt to everything. An expert came in and
   had the power supply repaired by 8:30 PM. Operations put the TeV back
   into shot setup but transfers of antiprotons from the Antiproton Source
   (Pbar) were very inefficient. (A shot consists of injecting bunches of
   protons and antiprotons into the TeV. It becomes a store once all
   bunches of protons and antiprotons are accelerated, circulating, and
   ready to be brought to collision.) An expert came in at 11 PM to
   investigate problem.

   Saturday, January 26
   Another TeV shot setup was started at 12:30 AM. After a D1 separator
   problem was resolved, Operations established store #927 at 3:30 AM with
   initial luminosity of 1.25E30. (Luminosity is a measure of particle
   interaction. The higher the luminosity, the greater the chance of quark
   production.) Pbar returned to stacking (collecting antiprotons). During
   the midnight shift all the quadrupole magnets and other equipment
   associated with the LINAC RF1 system were regularly tripping off. After
   investigation, operators found the system's water level was a little
   low. Operators manually added some water and the trips stopped. A bit
   after 2 PM, Operations terminated store 927 without quenching. Experts
   used the Tevatron Electron Lens to clear beam away. (TEL is a device
   that compensates for the strong electromagnet effects that a proton
   beam has on an antiproton beam. In a sense it refocuses the
   antiprotons.) Operations put the TeV into shot setup and, after
   resolving some MI transfer problems, established store #929 at 6 PM
   with an initial luminosity of 4.3E30.

   Sunday, January 27
   Operation monitored store #929. Pbar stacked. At 12:30 AM the TeV
   quenched at D4 due to a faulty ground fault indicator. A TeV specialist
   came in to help determine the problem. (A ground fault is what happens
   when an electrical device comes in contact with something that has an
   earth ground. What failed was a device that turns off power supplies
   when it senses a ground fault.) Operators could not find a replacement
   part. The fault cleared, so the TeV was put into shot setup about 5 AM.
   Operations established store #931 at 8:30 AM. Its initial luminosity
   was 4.4E30. Pbar returned to stacking and the Recycler began low level
   RF studies. (The Recycler is a storage ring constructed primarily of
   permanent magnets located in MI above the MI magnets. They are working
   towards storing antiprotons for an indefinite period of time. RF stands
   for Radio Frequency, which is the electromagnetic energy used to
   accelerate particles.) Booster RF station 8 tripped off and after
   trying several things, operators decided to bypass the station. A Pbar
   expert conducted reverse proton studies from 9:30 PM to 11:30 PM.

   Monday, January 28
   Operations monitored store # 931. Pbar Stacked.

   Today's Plans
   Operations will terminate store #931 and immediately go into TeV shot
   setup this morning.

   Live Tevatron status

   [email_friend.gif]

                  last modified 1/28/2002   email Fermilab

       [footerbar.gif]
       Security, Privacy, Legal Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
