http://star.cde.ca.gov/star98/

   [USEMAP:banner.gif]

   Spring 1998

   1998 STAR Reports

   Spring 1999 and 2000 STAR Reports

   Research Files

   Other Links:

   For information about the California Department of Education:
   http://www.cde.ca.gov

   For information about the STAR program and other components of the
   state testing program:
   http://www.cde.ca.gov/cilbranch/sca

   To e-mail questions or comments to the Standards, Curriculum, and
   Assessment Division of the California Department of Education:
   star @cde.ca.gov

   For information about the Stanford Achievement Test Series:
   http://www.startest.com

   For information about Harcourt Brace & Company:
   http://www.HarcourtBrace.com

   To e-mail questions or comments to Harcourt Brace Educational
   Measurement:
   starmail@hbtpc.com



   This is the web site for California's Standardized Testing and
   Reporting (STAR) program results for 1998. The STAR program was
   authorized by Senate Bill (SB) 376 in October 1997. As required by
   statute, the California State Board of Education designated a test for
   use in the STAR program. The Stanford Achievement Test Series, Ninth
   Edition, Form T (Stanford 9), was designated as the 1998 STAR test in
   November 1997. The Stanford 9 is a multiple-choice test that allows
   comparisons to be made to a national sample of students. School
   districts in California were required to test all students in grades 2
   through 11, inclusive, between March 15, 1998 and May 25, 1998. The
   only exemptions allowed by SB 376 were for special education students
   whose Individual Education Plans (IEPs) explicitly exempted them from
   such testing and for students whose parent or guardian submitted a
   written request for exemption. Students in grades 2 through 8 were
   required to be tested in reading, mathematics, written expression, and
   spelling. Students in grades 9 through 11 were required to be tested in
   reading, writing, mathematics, science, and history/social science.

   At this web site you will find STAR test results for the state and for
   each school, school district, and county in the state. These group
   results are reported in two ways for each subject area and grade level
   (grades 2-11): 1) for all students tested in the group, and 2) for
   limited English proficient (LEP) students tested. Individual student
   results are confidential and are reported to the school district,
   student, and the student's parent(s) or guardian(s).

   To access the results for the state or for a specific school, district,
   or county, click on the Reports icon and follow the directions from
   that page. These reports may be printed, but may not appear as you see
   them when printed in standard portrait format. Adjust your print
   setting to landscape (sideways) mode for better results.

   At this web site you will also find STAR results in research files that
   can be downloaded for additional data analyses. To obtain these files
   click on the Research files icon and follow the directions from that
   page.

   To return to this page at any time, click on the Home icon. You can
   also click on the Back button to see the last page viewed.

   Once you are in the test results pages you can click on the Pencil icon
   for explanatory notes and other help with reports or research files.

   In order to protect student confidentiality, no scores are reported for
   any group of 10 or fewer students.

   The results posted on this web site should be considered preliminary
   and are subject to revision. Date of last revision: December 17, 1998
