http://www.calcarenet.ca.gov/non_med_res_care_facs.asp


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   California Care Network Home
                   Residential Care
                   Medical Care
                   Mental Health Care
                   Alcohol & Drug Treatment Services
                   In-Home Health / Medical Care Services
                   Adult Day Service Centers
                   Home and Community Services
                   Search for a Facility
                   Checklists and Guides
                   Links



   California Care Network




   Residential Care Facilities

   The California Department of Social Services licenses care facilities
   for persons who cannot live alone but who don't need extensive medical
   services. The services provided in these facilities vary according to
   the needs of the individual, but typically include help with
   medications and assistance with personal hygiene, dressing and
   grooming. The facilities also may provide supervision and programs for
   individuals who have Alzheimer's disease or other types of dementia.

   Description of Residential Care Facilities

      Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE)
   Facility Search

   RCFEs provide care and supervision and assistance with activities of
   daily living, such as bathing and grooming. They may also provide
   incidental medical services under special care plans. The facilities
   provide services to persons 60 years of age and over and persons under
   60 with compatible needs. RCFEs may also be known as assisted living
   facilities, retirement homes and board and care homes. The facilities
   can range in size from six beds or less to over 100 beds. The residents
   in these facilities require varying levels of personal care and
   protective supervision. Because of the wide range of services offered
   by RCFEs, consumers should look closely at the programs of each
   facility to see if the services will meet their needs.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
