http://www.nfc.usda.gov/el_paprls.htm

   Home Download Center Reporting Center Support Center Publications and
   Forms News Products About NFC Contact Information Feedback
                                  Download
                              Center Reporting
                               Center Support
                                 Center Pubs
                         & Forms News Products About
                                 NFC Contact
                                Info Feedback


                          Have YOU gone Paperle$$?

     Since 1998, the Employee Personal Page has provided employees with
    electronic access to their bi-weekly Statement of Earnings and Leave.
   With more than 190,000 employees currently utilizing this service, NFC
    has implemented a new option that will enable employees to view their
           statements and any pay period inserts entirely online.
      Agencies On Board... | Benefits of "going paperless" | Interested
                                  Agencies

                            Agencies On board...

   These agencies have authorized the NFC to provide their employees with
                            the paperless option:

    Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) Appalachian Regional Commission
                       (ARC) (effective Pay Period 18)
      Farm Credit Administration (FCA) Farm Credit Administration (FCA)
                          (effective Pay Period 19)
     Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (FCSIC) Farm Credit System
           Insurance Corporation (FCSIC) (effective Pay Period 22)
       Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Federal Communications
                 Commission (FCC) (effective Pay Period 22)
   Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Federal Deposit Insurance
                Corporation (FDIC) (effective Pay Period 21)
   Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) Federal Mediation and
            Conciliation Service (FMCS) (effective Pay Period 21)
       General Accounting Office (GAO) General Accounting Office (GAO)
                          (effective Pay Period 22)
   Institute of Museum and Library Sciences (IMLS) Institute of Museum and
              Library Sciences (IMLS) (effective Pay Period 18)
        U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) U.S. Merit Systems
              Protection Board (MSPB) (effective Pay Period 19)
    National Endowment for the Humanities(NEH) National Endowment for the
                  Humanities(NEH) (effective Pay Period 18)
              Peace Corps Peace Corps (effective Pay Period 20)
   United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) United States Department
               of Agriculture (USDA) (effective Pay Period 18)

                        Benefits of "going paperless"

     * User Friendly Access: SEL is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a
       week, with the latest information accessible immediately after
       payroll processes. From any location, a mouse-click to your
       computer screen will access your current pay period data or a
       year's worth of payroll statements.
     * One-Stop Service: Because you have immediate access to your own
       payroll data, electronic SEL eliminates the need to request
       information from the Human Resources Management Staff. You, the
       user, are going straight to the source for your own personal pay
       information.
     * Peace of Mind: Your data is protected with 128-bit Secure Socket
       Layer encryption when it travels over the Internet. It can only be
       accessed with a valid Social Security Number and Personal
       Identification Number known only to you.
     * Flexibility: You can change from paperless SEL back to the paper
       version, at any time you wish. The effective date of your change
       will be determined in the same way that the initial effective date
       is determined.

                             Interested Agencies

    For information on allowing your employees to "go paperless" with the
             EPP, contact NFC Customer Support at 504-255-5230.



                          Go to the USDA Home Page Go to the NFC Home Page

   Home | Download | Reporting | Support | Online Pubs | News | Products |
                     About NFC | Contact Info | Feedback
          Read our Privacy Policy. Send comments and suggestions to
                           nfc.webmaster@usda.gov
