http://unix2.nysed.gov/statedoc.htm

   Images of three NYS documents: Losing our Children, the I Love NY
   Travel Guide, and the Driver's Manual.

Related Pages:

   Checklist

   Scanned Documents

   Popular Documents

   Regents Exams

   Notable Documents

   Historical Documents

   Document Depository Program

   State Agency Databases

   NYS Government Information

Other Government Documents:

   State Publication Lists

   Federal Documents

   Patents
   New York State Library

New York State Documents

   A driver's manual for people planning to test for a driver's license.
   The New York State Budget. The final report on the results of a
   comprehensive, Statewide examination of the way that allegations of
   child abuse are investigated. A travel guide highlighting vacation
   areas in New York.

   What do all these publications have in common? They are all State
   documents - official publications of New York State agencies. And one
   of the best places to find these, and thousands of other State
   documents, is at the New York State Library. A repository of official
   State publications since its creation in 1818, the Library has the
   world's largest collection of New York State documents.

Finding Documents on the Web

   Library Catalog: Most New York State documents in our collection are
   listed in Excelsior, our online catalog. For many recent State
   documents, the catalog record contains a link to an elctronic version
   of the document. Most of these online publications are scanned
   documents, which were created by the Library and made available online
   as TIFF (requires TIFF viewer plugin) or GIF images. A small number of
   documents, mainly from 1995-1997, are available as Web documents or via
   FTP.

   For tips on searching the catalog, see Searching Excelsior for New York
   State Documents.

   State Agency Web Sites: Many State agencies now post electronic
   versions of their publications on their Web sites. The NYS Government
   Information Locator Service contains a list of State agency Web sites
   and, where known, a link to the page(s) that deal specifically with
   agency publications.

   Checklist: Each month the Library publishes the Checklist of Official
   Publications of the State of New York, a compilation of New York State
   documents acquired and cataloged by the Library during the previous
   month.

Finding Documents at the State Library

     * Excelsior, our online catalog
     * NYS Document Finding Aids
     * Using the New York State Library

Finding Documents at a Library Near You

   Other libraries in New York State also participate in the Document
   Depository Program and receive copies of many State documents. Check
   the list of State Depository Libraries for a participating library near
   you.

   State documents can also be borrowed from the New York State Library
   through interlibrary loan. Requests must be made through your public
   (or academic) library. Please supply a full bibliographic citation with
   each request.


                           Home Search Contact us

   Last modified on June 1, 2001/dvm
   Last reviewed on June 1, 2001/dvm
   URL: http://www.nysl.nysed.gov/
