http://www.stopmedi-calfraud.dhs.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                     DHS Home
                     Stop Medi-Cal Fraud Home
                     Examples of Medi-Cal Provider Fraud
                     Administrative Sanctions
                     Criminal Convictions
                     Department of Health Services logo


   Medi-Cal Provider Fraud Logo

   "California taxpayers have the right to expect that every cent of
   Medi-Cal money is being spent on deserving patients.  As Governor, I
   will not rest until every bilking con artist and fly-by-night operator
   is put behind bars or out of business." -Gov. Gray Davis


   __________
              search
   (*)  My CA
              ( )  DHS
   MEDI-CAL PROVIDER FRAUD


                                               DHS MEDI-CAL FRAUD HOTLINE
   The Department of Health Services asks that anyone who observes or has
    knowledge of suspicious health care activity to call the DHS Medi-Cal
        Fraud Hotline telephone number, 1-800-822-6222, to report it. The
       recorded message may be heard in English and four other languages:
    Spanish, Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Russian. The call is free and the
                   caller may remain anonymous. You can also e-mail us at
                                              stopmedicalfraud@dhs.ca.gov
          "Fraud and abuse in the Medi-Cal program was one of my greatest
          concerns when I came to the Department of Health Services," says
          Director Diana M. Bontá, R.N., Dr.P.H. "It is costing the taxpayers
          millions each year and is endangering the health of Californians."
          Medi-Cal provider fraud is an intentional attempt by some providers
          to receive unauthorized payments or benefits from the program. This
          fraud can take many forms, but the most common involve providers
          knowingly billing for unnecessary services, for services not
          performed, or for more expensive services than they actually
          provide.
          The California Department of Health Services (CDHS) has made
          significant strides toward detecting and preventing Medi-Cal
          provider fraud. Staff in Audits and Investigations are using new
          auditing and investigating procedures to monitor the practices and
          billing activity of providers; these work to assure quality care is
          provided, reduce the occurrence of fraud, and uncover instances of
          provider identity theft. New Provider Enrollment procedures include
          more extensive application packages, provider background checks,
          and onsite reviews, as well as moratoriums on enrollment of new
          durable medical equipment and laboratory providers. DHS has also
          created a new unit, the Medi-Cal Fraud Prevention Bureau, which has
          developed and is using provider fraud risk assessment surveys to
          detect, document, and refer fraud for criminal prosecution.
          Gov. Gray Davis has put forth a tremendous amount of resources
          since 1999 to combat Medi-Cal fraud, which was a key issue in his
          State of the State address that year. He also established a special
          group, the Governor's Medi-Cal Fraud Task Force, to improve
          communication and cooperation among agencies that investigate and
          prosecute Medi-Cal provider fraud. The group includes the
          Department of Health Services, the State Department of Justice, the
          State Controller's Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
          Office of Inspector General, the U.S. Attorney's Office, and the
          Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly the Health
          Care Finance Administration).

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
