http://pacer.cadc.uscourts.gov/common/opinions/200201/00-3107a.txt

   United States Court of Appeals FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
   Argued October 5, 2001 Decided January 29, 2002 No. 00-3107 United
   States of America, Appellant v. Ronnie Bookhardt, Appellee Appeal from
   the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (No.
   00cr00024-01) Suzanne Grealy Curt, Assistant U.S. Attorney, argued the
   cause for appellant. With her on the briefs were Wilma A. Lewis, U.S.
   Attorney at the time the briefs were filed, John R. Fisher, Thomas J.
   Tourish, Jr., and Arvind K. Lal, Assistant U.S. Attorneys. Roscoe C.
   Howard, Jr., U.S. Attor- ney, entered an appearance. A.J. Kramer,
   Federal Public Defender, argued the cause and filed the briefs for
   appellee. Tony W. Miles, Assistant Federal Public Defender, entered an
   appearance. Before: Ginsburg, Chief Judge, and Sentelle and Garland,
   Circuit Judges. Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge Garland.
   Garland, Circuit Judge: This appeal turns on the question of whether,
   if a police officer arrests a defendant on a ground that proves
   invalid, the arrest is nonetheless lawful if the same officer had
   probable cause to arrest the defendant for a different offense. We
   answer that question in the affirma- tive, and, accordingly, reverse
   the district court's suppression of evidence discovered in a search
   incident to the arrest of defendant Ronnie Bookhardt. I On November 19,
   1999, Detective Caesar Casiano, a mem- ber of the Washington, D.C.
   Metropolitan Police Department, was driving an unmarked car on
   Washington's Southeast Freeway. As Casiano was traveling in the far
   left lane, he was forced onto the highway's shoulder by Bookhardt's
   car. Reentering the road, Casiano observed Bookhardt driving at high
   speed and weaving in and out of traffic without using turn signals.
   Although (as Casiano subsequently testified) he was prepared to let
   Bookhardt get away, Bookhardt exited at the same ramp as Casiano, and
   Casiano pulled him over at a stoplight. When Casiano asked Bookhardt
   for his driver's license, Bookhardt replied that he did not have it
   with him; he gave the officer his Social Security number instead. Upon
   radio- ing a police dispatcher, Casiano learned that Bookhardt's
   license had expired on October 14, 1999--approximately one month
   before. Casiano then informed Bookhardt that he was under arrest for
   driving with an expired license. Incident to that arrest, Casiano
   searched Bookhardt's car and found two guns, one under the driver's
   seat and the second under a floormat on the driver's side. A grand jury
   subsequently indicted Bookhardt for unlawful possession of a firearm by
   a convicted felon, in violation of 18 U.S.C. s 922(g). Pursuant to
   Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 12(b)(3), Bookhardt moved to
   suppress the use of the guns as evidence. His motion did not discuss
   the arrest for driving with an expired permit. Instead, Bookhardt
   argued that the initial traffic stop was unlawful because Detective
   Casiano lacked probable cause to believe that he had committed a
   traffic violation, and contended that the guns should be suppressed
   because they were discovered as a result of the unlawful stop.
   Following a hearing, the district court denied Bookhardt's motion. The
   court found Casiano's testimony to be credible, ruled that he had had
   probable cause to stop Bookhardt for reckless driving and to arrest him
   for driving with an expired license, and held that the discovery of the
   guns was the product of a lawful search incident to that arrest. At the
   time of the district court's ruling, neither the parties nor the court
   realized that, although driving with a license expired for more than
   ninety days is a criminal offense under District of Columbia law, D.C.
   Code s 40-301(d), driving with a license expired for ninety days or
   less is not criminal, id. s 40-301(d-1).1 The prosecutor learned of the
   ninety-day exception before the jury was sworn on the morning of trial
   and promptly informed the court and defense counsel, who renewed
   Bookhardt's motion to suppress. The court found that Casiano had had
   probable cause to arrest Bookhardt for reckless driving.2 It ruled,
   however, that since the detective had chosen instead to arrest
   Bookhardt for driving with the expired license, and since it was now
   apparent that the arrest on that charge was invalid, the search of the
   car incident to arrest was also invalid and its fruits must be
   suppressed. Because the guns found in Casiano's search were essential
   to proof of the firearms offense for which Bookhardt was indict- ed,
   their suppression effectively ended the prosecution. __________ 1
   Recodified in 2001 as D.C. Code s 50-1401.01(d) & (d-1). 2 As discussed
   infra Part IV, reckless driving is a criminal offense in the District
   of Columbia. See D.C. Code s 40-712(b) & (c), recodified in 2001 as
   D.C. Code s 50-2201.04(b) & (c). Thereafter, the government filed a
   notice of appeal pursuant to 18 U.S.C. s 3731, the statute that governs
   appeals by the United States in criminal cases. II Before reaching the
   question of whether the car search was lawful, we must first address
   Bookhardt's motion to dismiss this appeal on the ground that the
   government failed to file, in a timely fashion, the certification
   required by s 3731. That section provides, inter alia, that: An appeal
   by the United States shall lie to a court of appeals from a decision or
   order of a district court suppressing or excluding evidence ... in a
   criminal proceeding, not made after the defendant has been put in
   jeopardy ..., if the United States [A]ttorney certifies to the district
   court that the appeal is not taken for purpose of delay and that the
   evidence is a substantial proof of a fact material in the proceeding.
   .... The appeal in all such cases shall be taken within thirty days
   after the decision, judgment or order has been rendered and shall be
   diligently prosecuted. The provisions of this section shall be
   liberally con- strued to effectuate its purposes. 18 U.S.C. s 3731
   (emphasis added). In this case, the district court's order granting the
   motion to suppress was entered on September 13, 2000. The government's
   notice of appeal was filed October 12, 2000, within the thirty-day
   window provided by the statute. The required certification, however,
   was not filed until November 2, 2000, approximately three weeks after
   the notice of appeal. Bookhardt contends that the govern- ment's
   certification was untimely and that the appeal should therefore be
   dismissed. Section 3731 does not expressly state whether the govern-
   ment must file its certification by the time the notice of appeal is
   filed, by the end of the thirty-day period in which the appeal may be
   taken, or by some other time. Although several circuits have inferred
   from the purposes underlying the section that certification should be
   made at the time the notice of appeal is filed,3 this circuit has never
   decided the question. Nor need we do so today. As the government has
   represented that from this point forward its policy will be to file the
   s 3731 certification on or before the date it files the notice of
   appeal, we do not expect this issue to arise again. Appellant's Opp'n
   to Appellee's Mot. to Dismiss at 4 n.2. More important, for the reasons
   stated below, it is not necessary to decide the question in order to
   resolve the appeal presently before us. Assuming that the government
   filed its certification late, its tardiness is necessarily fatal only
   if it is a jurisdictional bar to consideration of the government's
   appeal. Although the stat- ute expressly makes the filing of the
   certification a prerequi- site to appeal, see 18 U.S.C. s 3731
   (providing that "an appeal by the United States shall lie ... if the
   United States [A]ttorney certifies...." (emphasis added)), it says
   nothing about the consequences of failing to file in a timely
   fashion--a not surprising state of affairs given, as noted above, that
   the statute does not mention a filing deadline for certification at
   all. Every circuit to consider the issue has concluded that untimely
   filing is not a jurisdictional bar.4 Instead, while __________ 3 See,
   e.g., United States v. Smith, 263 F.3d 571, 578 (6th Cir. 2001)
   (holding that the certification requirement "is intended to ensure a
   conscientious pre-appeal analysis by the responsible prose- cuting
   official," and that "[t]he purpose of the certification is clearly
   defeated when the government files its certification after initiating
   an appeal") (internal quotation marks omitted); see United States v.
   Salisbury, 158 F.3d 1204, 1207 (11th Cir. 1998); United States v.
   Bailey, 136 F.3d 1160, 1163 (7th Cir. 1998); United States v. Miller,
   952 F.2d 866, 875 (5th Cir. 1992); see also United States v. Hanks, 24
   F.3d 1235, 1238 (10th Cir. 1994) (suggesting that the certification
   should be filed within the thirty-day period allowed for filing the
   notice of appeal). 4 See United States v. Smith, 263 F.3d 571, 578 (6th
   Cir. 2001); United States v. Romaszko, 253 F.3d 757, 760 (2d Cir.
   2001); In re Grand Jury Subpoena, 175 F.3d 332, 337 (4th Cir. 1999);
   United emphasizing that s 3731 requires a " 'conscientious pre- appeal
   analysis by the responsible prosecuting official,' " United States v.
   Smith, 263 F.3d 571, 577 (6th Cir. 2001) (quoting United States v.
   Carrillo-Bernal, 58 F.3d 1490, 1494 (10th Cir. 1995)), courts have
   treated untimely certification as a filing irregularity under Federal
   Rule of Appellate Proce- dure 3(a)(2), for which the remedy is a matter
   of the court's discretion. Such treatment is appropriate, as Rule
   3(a)(2) states that "[a]n appellant's failure to take any step other
   than the timely filing of a notice of appeal does not affect the
   validity of the appeal, but is ground only for the court of appeals to
   act as it considers appropriate, including dismiss- ing the appeal." In
   this case the government did file a timely notice of appeal, and,
   accordingly, its failure arguendo to file the accompanying
   certification in a timely manner "does not affect the validity of the
   appeal," but rather leaves us with discretion to act as we "consider[ ]
   appropriate." Fed. R. App. P. 3(a)(2). As to how to exercise that
   discretion, the Sixth Circuit has recently observed: [C]ourts typically
   consider a variety of factors, including: when the certificate was
   filed; the reason for the failure to timely file it; whether the
   government did in fact engage in a conscientious pre-appeal analysis;
   whether the government acknowledges that the certification re-
   quirement should be taken seriously; any delay or preju- dice to the
   defendant; whether the appeal raises impor- tant legal issues needing
   appellate clarification; and whether the appeal should be heard in the
   interest of justice, or for any other significant reason. Smith, 263
   F.3d at 578 (internal quotation marks omitted). We have no need to
   assess the relative import of these __________ States v. Gantt, 194
   F.3d 987, 997 (9th Cir. 1999); United States v. Salisbury, 158 F.3d
   1204, 1206 (11th Cir. 1998); United States v. Bailey, 136 F.3d 1160,
   1163 (7th Cir. 1998); United States v. Carrillo-Bernal, 58 F.3d 1490,
   1492-93 (10th Cir. 1995); United States v. Miller, 952 F.2d 866, 875
   (5th Cir. 1992). factors, as each weighs in favor of permitting the
   govern- ment's appeal to go forward in the instant case. First, the
   government filed the required certification only three weeks after
   filing the notice of appeal, without any complaint or prompting by
   either the defendant or the court.5 Second, the government has
   represented that it did not file earlier because it was unaware of any
   requirement to do so. The government's representation on the point is
   credible given that the statute does not contain an express timing
   requirement, that this circuit has never before addressed the question,
   and that Bookhardt's experienced counsel has con- ceded that he, too,
   was unaware of such a requirement. Mot. for Leave to Late File Mot. to
   Dismiss Appeal at 1. Nor is there any reason to doubt the government's
   repre- sentation that it engaged in a conscientious pre-appeal analy-
   sis and that this analysis yielded the conclusion that an appeal under
   s 3731 was warranted. Appellant's Opp'n to Appel- lee's Mot. to Dismiss
   at 14.6 The suppressed evidence was __________ 5 Bookhardt did not file
   his motion to dismiss until September 24, 2001, almost eleven months
   after the government filed its s 3731 certification. 6 Bookhardt
   contends that a reason to doubt does arise from the government's
   request for a thirty-day extension of this court's briefing schedule,
   made after its filing of the s 3731 certification, on the ground that
   the government needed additional time to complete its evaluation of
   whether to pursue the appeal, including time to obtain authorization
   from the Solicitor General. See U.S. Attor- ney's Manual s
   9-2.170(A)(2) (providing that any appeal of a deci- sion adverse to the
   government must be approved by the Solicitor General). But there is
   nothing inconsistent between the United States Attorney's certification
   that an appeal meets the threshold requirements of s 3731--that it is
   not taken for purpose of delay and that the suppressed evidence is
   substantial proof of a material fact--and the need for additional time
   to determine whether the case meets other criteria that the Department
   of Justice may impose on government appeals in criminal cases. Nor is
   there anything in s 3731, which requires certification by "the United
   States [A]ttorney," that compels the United States Attorney to
   essential, not merely "material," to the government's case, and, as we
   discuss below, the contention that it was wrongly suppressed is
   sufficiently reasonable to eliminate any concern that the appeal was
   taken "for purpose of delay." Moreover, the government acknowledges
   that the certification require- ment must be taken seriously, id. at 5,
   as confirmed by the fact that it filed the certification within three
   weeks of the notice of appeal, without any suggestion from the
   defendant or the court that the certification was missing or late. The
   defendant, who has been free on bond pending this appeal, has been
   unable to articulate any way in which that three- week hiatus--which
   did not delay resolution of the appeal at all--prejudiced him.7
   Finally, although the legal issue at stake here may not be of
   transcendent importance, it surely is significant and apparently is in
   need of some clarification. Under these circumstances, we conclude that
   it is "appro- priate," Fed. R. App. P. 3(a)(2), and in the interest of
   justice to hear this appeal. Accordingly, even assuming that the
   government's certification was not timely filed, we deny de- fendant's
   motion to dismiss the appeal. III In considering an appeal from a
   decision of a district court, we review de novo the court's conclusions
   regarding questions of law, United States v. Weaver, 234 F.3d 42, 46
   (D.C. Cir. 2000), as well as its determinations of probable cause,
   Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690, 699 (1996). We review the
   district court's "findings of historical fact only for clear error and
   ... give due weight to inferences drawn from those facts," id., as well
   as to the court's determination of witness credibility, United States
   v. Christian, 187 F.3d 663, 666 (D.C. Cir. 1999). __________ obtain
   approval from the Solicitor General before filing a certifica- tion. 7
   Cf. Smith, 263 F.3d at 580 (noting that "[a]lthough pre-trial release
   is a deprivation of liberty, [the defendant] has not shown substantial
   prejudice beyond that deprivation"). The government contends that the
   warrantless search of the passenger compartment of Bookhardt's car,
   which yielded the two guns that were suppressed in this case, was
   lawful under the well-established "search incident to arrest" excep-
   tion to the Fourth Amendment's warrant requirement. See New York v.
   Belton, 453 U.S. 454, 460 (1981).8 The validity of a search grounded
   upon that exception depends on the lawful- ness of the arrest, which in
   turn requires probable cause to believe that a crime has been
   committed. See Christian, 187 F.3d at 667. As the government concedes,
   although Detec- tive Casiano arrested Bookhardt for driving with an
   expired license, he did not have probable cause to do so because it is
   not a crime under District of Columbia law to drive with a license that
   has been expired for ninety days or less. See Appellant's Br. at 12, 16
   (conceding that Bookhardt could not lawfully be arrested on the expired
   license charge); see also id. at 9 n.7 (acknowledging for purposes of
   appeal that, at the time of the arrest, Casiano was aware that
   Bookhardt's license had expired on October 14, 1999). Accordingly, the
   remaining questions are: (1) whether Bookhardt's arrest was lawful if
   the detective had probable cause to believe that Bookhardt had
   committed a different crime (reckless driving), and (2) whether Casiano
   did in fact have such probable cause. We consider the first question in
   this Part and the second in Part IV below. More than twenty-five years
   ago, this court stated that "an arrest will be upheld if probable cause
   exists to support arrest for an offense that is not denominated as the
   reason for the arrest by the arresting officer." United States v.
   Joyner, 492 F.2d 655, 656 (D.C. Cir. 1974). In that case, we held that
   even if Florida police had wrongly arrested the defendant for an
   out-of-state crime, the arrest (and therefore the use of evidence
   obtained incident thereto) was lawful because they had probable cause
   to arrest him for violations __________ 8 As the Court further held in
   Belton, a search incident to arrest " 'is not only an exception to the
   warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment, but is also a "reasonable"
   search under that Amend- ment.' " 453 U.S. at 459 (quoting United
   States v. Robinson, 414 U.S. 218, 235 (1973)). of Florida law. Id. In
   so holding, we cited a case of even earlier vintage, Bell v. United
   States, in which we had held that "[t]he question is not what name the
   officer attached to his action; it is whether, in the situation in
   which he found himself, he had reasonable ground to believe a felony
   had been committed and that the [defendants] had committed it." 254
   F.2d 82, 86 (D.C. Cir. 1958). In Bell, we ruled that despite the fact
   that the offense for which the defendants had been arrested,
   "investigation of housebreaking," was not a crime, the fact that
   probable cause existed to arrest the defendants for a felony was
   sufficient to render the arrest lawful. Id. at 86-87.9 Other circuits
   have similarly concluded that, even if proba- ble cause does not
   support arrest for the offense charged by the arresting officer, an
   arrest (and search incident thereto) is nonetheless valid if the same
   officer had probable cause to arrest the defendant for another
   offense.10 This result is __________ 9 At oral argument, Bookhardt
   sought to distinguish between an arrest like his own, where the crime
   charged was not actually a crime, and an arrest in which the charged
   offense was a crime but the officer lacked probable cause to believe it
   had been committed. We see no reason why such a distinction should be
   important, since an arrest in either circumstance is equally invalid
   and the only question under our precedents is whether another, valid
   ground for arrest exists. Moreover, the above recitation of the facts
   in Bell, which involved a charged offense that was not an offense at
   all, makes clear that the distinction the defendant seeks to draw would
   not assist him in distinguishing this circuit's precedents. 10 See,
   e.g., Barna v. City of Perth Amboy, 42 F.3d 809, 819 (3d Cir. 1994)
   (holding that "[p]robable cause need only exist as to any offense that
   could be charged under the circumstances"); United States v. Kalter, 5
   F.3d 1166, 1168 (8th Cir. 1993) (upholding arrest because, although the
   police lacked probable cause to arrest the defendant for violation of
   the concealed-weapon statute that was the actual reason for the arrest,
   they had probable cause to arrest him for violating a separate
   ordinance requiring that a gun be carried in a locked container);
   United States v. Atkinson, 450 F.2d 835, 838 (5th Cir. 1971) (declining
   to decide whether an arrest for false pretenses was legal because the
   officer had probable cause to arrest consistent with the Supreme
   Court's holding, in Whren v. United States, that the existence of
   probable cause must be determined objectively from the facts and
   circumstances known to the officers at the time of the arrest without
   regard to the "actual motivations" or "[s]ubjective intentions" of the
   officers involved. 517 U.S. 806, 813 (1996). In Whren, police officers
   purportedly stopped a car for a traffic violation, subsequently
   arresting the occupants on narcotics charges after observing a bag of
   drugs. The defendants alleged that the traffic violation was merely a
   pretext, and suggested that the officers' real motivation for the stop
   was to search for drugs. The Supreme Court held that even if the
   traffic stop was a pretext for the search, the officers' subjective
   intent was irrelevant; under the Fourth Amendment, the stop was lawful
   because there was probable cause to believe the driver had committed a
   traffic violation. Id. at 812-13, 819.11 So too, here. Notwithstanding
   Casiano's subjective intent to arrest Bookhardt for driving with an
   expired license, the arrest was lawful if Casiano had probable cause to
   believe the defendant guilty of reckless driving. Bookhardt argues that
   Whren is inapplicable to this case because he does not contend that
   Detective Casiano arrested him on a pretext, but rather out of the
   detective's ignorance __________ the defendant for operating a vehicle
   with an invalid license tag); Klingler v. United States, 409 F.2d 299,
   303-06 (8th Cir. 1969) (upholding arrest because, although the police
   lacked probable cause to arrest the defendant for vagrancy, the charged
   offense, they had probable cause to believe that he had committed
   robbery); see also Wayne R. LaFave, Search and Seizure s 1.4(d) (3d ed.
   1996) (collecting cases); cf. United States v. Dhinsa, 171 F.3d 721,
   725 (2d Cir. 1998) (upholding traffic stop on the basis of an observed
   traffic violation, notwithstanding detectives' reliance on a different
   ground). 11 In Arkansas v. Sullivan, the Court made clear that Whren
   applies not only to civil traffic stops, but to criminal traffic
   arrests as well. 121 S. Ct. 1876, 1878 (2001) (reversing suppression of
   drug-related evidence and holding that it is irrelevant whether a
   traffic-violation arrest was a pretext for a drug search, as long as
   there was probable cause for the traffic arrest). of the relevant D.C.
   Code provision. We fail to see, however, why the police should be in a
   better position if they prevari- cate about the reason for arresting a
   defendant than if they make an honest mistake of law. As long as
   Casiano had an objectively valid ground upon which to arrest Bookhardt,
   the fact that he articulated an invalid one does not render the arrest
   unlawful. Cf. United States v. Dhinsa, 171 F.3d 721, 725 (2d Cir. 1998)
   ("A fair reading of Whren ... leads to the conclusion that an observed
   traffic violation legitimates a stop even if the detectives do not rely
   on the traffic violation."). Indeed, were we to hold otherwise, we
   would do no more than create an incentive for the police "to routinely
   charge every citizen taken into custody with every offense" they can
   think of, "in order to increase the chances that at least one charge
   would survive"--yielding no additional protection of civil lib- erties
   while adding considerably to the burden placed upon both defendants and
   police. United States v. Atkinson, 450 F.2d 835, 838 (5th Cir. 1971)
   (quoted with approval in Wayne R. LaFave, Search and Seizure s 1.4(d),
   at 111 n.29 (3d ed. 1996)).12 Although the district court agreed that
   Detective Casiano had probable cause to arrest Bookhardt for reckless
   driving, it declined to rely on that ground to validate the search,
   holding that Knowles v. Iowa, 525 U.S. 113 (1998), rather than Whren,
   was the applicable Supreme Court precedent. In Knowles, the Court held
   that an officer may not conduct a search incident to arrest when,
   although the officer has probable cause to make an arrest, he issues a
   citation instead of arresting the defendant. Knowles found that neither
   of the two historical justifications for the search-incident-to-
   __________ 12 Bookhardt also argues that even if Whren does apply, it
   still requires the government to show that there was probable cause to
   believe he was "driving with an expired licence," albeit based upon
   objective circumstances rather than the officer's subjective belief.
   Appellee's Br. at 14. This formulation, however, misapprehends Whren
   because, contrary to the rule in that case, it focuses on the officer's
   subjective motivation for making the arrest--that is, his belief that
   Bookhardt had violated the prohibition on driving with an expired
   license. arrest exception--the need to disarm the subject in order to
   take him into custody and the need to preserve evidence for later use
   at trial--applies when a defendant is not actually arrested and taken
   into custody. Id. at 116-19. The key point in Knowles, therefore, was
   not that the officer had a lawful ground for arrest upon which he did
   not rely, but that he did not arrest the defendant at all. When an
   officer does take a defendant into custody, the historical
   justifications for the search-incident-to-arrest exception apply
   regardless of whether the officer articulates the wrong reason for
   making the arrest.13 Accordingly, because Casiano did take Book- hardt
   into custody, Knowles is without application to this case,14 and the
   car search must be upheld if the detective had probable cause to arrest
   the defendant. IV Bookhardt argues that even if a lawful arrest for
   violating the reckless driving statute would have rendered the search
   of his car valid, his arrest was unlawful because there was no probable
   cause to believe he had violated the statute. This argument is readily
   dismissed. The D.C. Code makes reckless driving a criminal offense,
   D.C. Code s 40-712(c), and provides that: Any person who drives any
   vehicle upon a highway carelessly and heedlessly in willful or wanton
   disregard __________ 13 In United States v. Robinson--a case in which
   the defendant, much like Bookhardt, was arrested for the offense of
   driving while his license was revoked--the Court also made clear that
   the applica- bility of these historical justifications need not be
   litigated on a case-by-case basis. "The authority to search the person
   incident to a lawful custodial arrest," the Court held, "does not
   depend on what a court may later decide was the probability in a
   particular arrest situation that weapons or evidence would in fact be
   found upon the person of the suspect." 414 U.S. at 235; accord Belton,
   453 U.S. at 461. 14 Accord United States v. McLaughlin, 170 F.3d 889,
   891 & n.2 (9th Cir. 1999) (holding Knowles inapplicable to cases in
   which defendants are arrested). of the rights or safety of others, or
   without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so
   as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, shall
   be guilty of reckless driving. Id. s 40-712(b).15 Detective Casiano's
   testimony, credited by the district court, established that Bookhardt
   drove at a high rate of speed, greater than that of the surrounding
   traffic, that he wove in and out of lanes without signaling, and that
   he forced Casiano's vehicle off the road, nearly causing a collision.
   Whether or not the defendant actually exceeded the speed limit,
   Bookhardt's misconduct was serious and more than sufficient to
   establish both that he drove "careless- ly and heedlessly in willful
   ... disregard of the ... safety of others," and that he drove "without
   due caution and circum- spection ... in a manner so as to endanger ...
   any person." See Swailes v. District of Columbia, 219 A.2d 100, 102
   (D.C. 1966) (holding that "it is possible to drive well within the
   prescribed speed limit and still be a menace to the safety of others"
   under an earlier but identical version of the reckless driving
   statute). Hence, there is no doubt that Casiano had probable cause to
   arrest Bookhardt for the crime of reckless driving. V We conclude that,
   notwithstanding the government's failure to file its s 3731 certificate
   contemporaneously with its notice of appeal, this case is properly
   before us. We further hold that if a police officer arrests a defendant
   on a ground that ultimately proves invalid, the arrest is nonetheless
   lawful if the same officer had probable cause to arrest the defendant
   for a different criminal offense. Finally, we find that the officer who
   arrested defendant Bookhardt had probable cause to do so for the
   offense of reckless driving. Because Book- hardt's arrest was therefore
   lawful, the search incident to that arrest was lawful as well, and the
   evidence obtained as a __________ 15 Recodified in 2001 as D.C. Code s
   50-2201.04(b) & (c). result of the search is admissible at defendant's
   trial. Ac- cordingly, the order of the district court suppressing that
   evidence is Reversed.
