http://www.opr.ca.gov/publications/GeneralPlanning.shtml


                            Welcome to California
                            California Home

   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                                  OPR Home




                     Current Events
                      * Governor's Mentoring Partnership




                                 About
                                  * Functions
                                  * Statutes
                                  * History
                                  * Contacts




                   Clearinghouse
                    * CEQAnet Database
                    * Environmental Review
                    * Federal Grant Review
                    * Announcements & Technical Advisories
                    * Newsletter




                 Local Planning Assistance
                  * California Planners' Information Network
                  * Overview
                  * Planning Assistance
                  * General Plan Extensions
                  * LAFCO Reform
                  * Other Sites of Interest to Planners




                       Publications
                        * General Planning Publications
                        * Planner's Training Series
                        * CEQA Technical Advice Series
                        * How to Order OPR Publications


                 Governor's Office of Planning and Research

                        General Planning Publications

   Most of the publications listed below are available in both HTML and
   Adobe Acrobat PDF formats. The PDF format facilitates the viewing and
   printing of documents in a form closely resembling the original printed
   version. Viewing PDF documents requires Acrobat Reader, available as a
   free download from Adobe Systems.

   California Planner's 2000 Book of Lists
   (May 2000, 68 pages, $12.00)
   Download PDF version (707K)

     Contains the results from OPR's 1999 local government planning
     survey. Includes a chart summarizing the status of local general
     plans, directories of California's city and county planning
     agencies, Councils of Governments, and Local Agency Formation
     Commissions.

     Note: The 1996 | 1997 | 1998 | 1999 editions of the California
     Planner's Book of Lists are available online.

   CEQA: The California Environmental Quality Act - Statues and
   Guidelines, 2001
   (January 2001, available on the Internet only)

     This publication contains a reproduction of the California
     Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code section 21000 et
     seq., and the CEQA Guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of
     Resources, including new additions approved January 1, 2001. There
     are discussion paragraphs after each section of the Guidelines.

   A Citizens Guide to Planning
   (January 2001, 14 pages)
   Download PDF version (504K)

     A laymen's introduction to the mysterious world of planning. The
     general plan, zoning, land subdivision, and California Environmental
     Quality Act are among the topics discussed. It also contains a
     glossary of common planning terms and suggests additional readings
     in the field.

   Element Consolidation: Streamlining Local General Plans
   (Revised July 1998, 20 pages, $3.00)
   Download PDF version (129K)

     This advisory memo supplements the General Plan Guidelines. It
     provides additional information on general plan formats that
     consolidate two or more of the seven statutory elements.

   General Plan Guidelines
   (November 1998, 245 pages, $18.00).
   Download PDF version (1000K)

     This is a guide for local planners in preparing general plans and
     also for other local government officials and community members who
     may have less familiarity with planning theory, practice and land
     use law. This advisory guide is the state's only official document
     interpreting and explaining California's legal requirements for
     general plans. The Guidelines present a foundation upon which
     planning agencies can prepare their general plans to meet state
     legal requirements.

   The Planner's Guide to Specific Plans
   (January 2001, 46 pages)
   Download PDF version (1064K)

     This is a guide to the use and function of specific plans in
     California. It examines the pertinent statutes, suggests guidelines
     for the preparation and implementation of a plan, and provides
     examples and references to unique or innovative plans prepared
     throughout the state. It also discusses pertinent case law, specific
     plan fees, and the relationships of specific plans to other planning
     documents such as general plans and zoning ordinances.

   The Planning Commissioner's Book
   (Revised May 1998, 22 pages, $3.00)

     This publication is both a training tool for new planning
     commissioners as well as a handy general reference on planning. It
     includes brief overviews of the role of the planning commissioner,
     the job of the planning commissioner, and state planning law
     requirements.

   Planning, Zoning, and Development Laws, 2000
   (November 2000, 328 pages, $18.00)
   Download PDF version (1,760K)

     A compilation of California statutes pertaining to city and county
     planning and zoning activities. Also includes the Subdivision Map
     Act, the Outdoor Advertising Act, and the Delta Protection Act.

   Public Notice and Land Use Planning
   (April 1998, 20 pages, $3.00)

     An overniew of the statutory requirements for public notice,
     circulation, and review as required under the California
     Environmental Quality Act; the Ralph M. Brown Act; each of the acts
     comprising the State Planning and Zoning Laws; and other related
     statutes. It also discusses pertinent case law, Attorney General
     opinions, and provides useful references to other informative
     publications and Internet sites.

   Putting Action Into the Open Space Element: Techniques for Preserving
   Open Space and Farmland
   (Revised November 1997, 12 pages, $3.00)

     According to state law, every local open space plan must have an
     "action program." An action program identifies specific techniques
     which a local government intends to pursue in implementing its open
     space element. This brief publication outlines a variety of possible
     action program measures. Many have been insufficiently publicized,
     but most have been used in California. The booklet does not describe
     zoning or agricultural preserves due to the availability of
     publications regarding these most commonly used programs.

   State Clearinghouse Handbook
   (Revised January 2000, 35 pages, $6.00)
   Download PDF version (188K)

     A technical guide for lead and responsible agencies, project
     proponents, and the public on clearinghouse procedures for reviewing
     environmental documents.



                              __________ search
                                 (*)  My CA

                              Special Programs


                    * Innovation in Government
                    * Office of the Small Business Advocate


                   Environmental Justice
                    * Overview
                    * Information / Links
                    * Survey Results
                    * 2002 EJ Forums   New
                    * Smart Growth

                           Independent Affiliates


                          * AmeriCorps Program
                          * Innovation in Government

                           Questions or Comments?


   E-mail or call us as follows if you have any questions or would like
   additional information regarding the information on this page. Please
   state that you are contacting us regarding the OPR web site and let us
   know the specific page about which you have a question.
   916-322-3170
   opr.webmaster@opr.ca.gov


                             State of California

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
