http://www.boc.ca.gov/RAnderson.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   STAFF PROFILES

   Richard H. Anderson, Chief Deputy Executive Officer

   Richard H. Anderson joined the California Victim Compensation and
   Government Claims Board as the Chief Deputy Executive Officer, on
   September 1, 2000.

   Mr. Anderson, a native of Wisconsin, has over 18 years of experience in
   the victim services field, which includes 11 years, 1980 to 1991, as
   the Executive Director of the Wisconsin Office of Crime Victims
   Services. In this position, he administered the Crime Victims'
   Compensation Program, the state-funded victim/witness assistance grant
   program, the federal VOCA Crime Victim Assistance Grant Program, and
   the Attorney General's Victims Advisory Council.

   In 1993, Mr. Anderson joined the Office of the Attorney General, State
   of Texas, as Deputy Director of the Crime Victims' Compensation
   Division, and in 1994 was appointed Division Director. From 1998 until
   accepting his position with the Board, Mr. Anderson was the Executive
   Director of the Minnesota Crime Victims Reparations Board.

   Mr. Anderson's also has extensive law enforcement experience. He served
   as a uniformed police officer and juvenile officer in the Milwaukee
   Police Department, a Special Agency in the Organized Crime Bureau of
   the Wisconsin Department of Justice, and as an Administrative Officer
   in the Division of Criminal Investigation and Division of Narcotics
   Enforcement in the Wisconsin Department of Justice.

   Mr. Anderson has been married to his wife, Rosemarie, for thirty-four
   years. They have three children: Lisa Marie, a foreign language
   teacher; Michael, a commercial lines underwriter; and, Gregory, a
   portfolio manager. Rich received his B.S. degree from the University of
   Wisconsin - Milwaukee with a major in Social Work/ Criminal Justice.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
