http://mrdata.usgs.gov/av/mc/avimshelpmc.html

   USGS Home Page

  Help Topics

    1. System and Software Requirements
    2. Home Page Options
    3. MapClient Display
    4. MapClient Tips
    5. Potential Problems and Recommended Solutions
    6. Contact Information

   1. System and Software Requirements

          The IMS Internet application works on virtually all computers,
          however, a 100MHz 486 computer with 32 Mb or more of system
          (RAM) memory and a monitor screen size of 800x600 or better. is
          recommended. The IMS application requires a "Java Enabled"
          Internet browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer 3.01 or
          greater, or Netscape Navigator 3.0 or greater. We recommend
          downloading the most recent version of Microsoft Internet
          Explorer or Netscape Navigator. A plugin is required for
          Macintosh users. When you initially select a map to display, a
          Java applet, called MapClient_31, will be downloaded to your
          system. Depending on the speed of your system and network
          connection, the Java applet may take a couple of minutes to
          load.

   2. Home Page Options

          The Mineral Resources On-Line Spatial Data Home Page presents
          the user with the following options:
          (1) Map Viewing Options. The user can select a region of
          interest by clicking on a state or state name on the state map,
          the USA icon, or the world icon.
          (2) Download data. The user can download each data file and it's
          associated metadata.
          (3) About this Site. Displays a document describing the goals,
          structure, technology utilized and future of this application as
          it pertains to the USGS Spatial Data Delivery Project.
          (4) Help. Pressing this is your current location, which contains
          information that will help the user utilize this site.
          (5) Links. A list of mineral resource related sites.
          (6) Feedback. An opportunity to give us your comments and
          suggestions.
          (7) Software Bugs. Describes known software bugs and error
          messages.
          (8) Privacy Statement, Disclaimer, and Data Availability Policy
          Statements.

   3. MapClient Display

   Once the MapClient application is downloaded to your system you will
   see an initial display with a map which depends on the Display View
   selected. The following is a description of the MapClient Interface
   icons and their functions.

   Table of Contents [Window on left]

   (1)To display a theme select the box to the left of the theme name.
   (2)Display the legend for a theme by double clicking the theme name in
   the Table of contents.
   (3)Select the order in which the themes are displayed (i.e. which
   themes are displayed on top of others) by selecting (highlighting) the
   theme name in the Table of Contents and while holding down the left
   hand mouse button, drag the theme's position either up or down. Note:
   if a active theme disappears while adjusting the theme order, it may be
   covered by a solid filled polygon and/or grid/image theme that is
   higher in the drawing order. Themes are drawn in order from the bottom
   of the Table of Contents list to the top.

   (3)

   Blue Box with white question mark Detailed Legend [TOC]
   Click on this icon to display a detailed theme legend (if it exists) in
   a separate display window.

                             MAP DISPLAY WINDOW

   Gray Box containing white hand symbol PAN
   Pressing this button allows you to manually navigate through the map by
   clicking at a location, holding down the left mouse button, dragging
   the cursor to a new location and releasing the left mouse button. If
   you pan beyond the edge of the current map display, a new map will be
   requested from the server.

   Gray Box containing magnifier symbol ZOOM IN
   Pressing this button allows you to zoom in to a smaller area on the map
   by clicking at a location or by holding down the left mouse button and
   dragging a window. If you click on a location, the new map will be
   centered on that location.

   Gray Box containing magnifier symbol ZOOM OUT
   Pressing this button allows you to zoom out to a larger area on the map
   by clicking at a location or by holding down the left mouse button and
   dragging a window. If you click on a location, the new map will be
   centered on that location.

   Gray Box containing black box outline with upper left corner
   highlighted in red and yellow ZOOM TO A FEATURE
   Pressing this button allows you to zoom to a map extent defined by a
   set of selected features. One or more themes must be selected
   (highlighted) in the Table of Contents before using this tool. Clicking
   on a location or dragging a box with the left mouse button selects all
   features on the selected theme(s) at the selected location or within
   the box. A new map is drawn which includes all selected features. After
   the application zooms to the new extent the selected features will be
   highlighted in yellow. To remove the yellow highlight, press the Reload
   button.

   Gray Box containing white letter I within black circle IDENTIFY
   Pressing this button allows you to get attribute information about a
   feature on which you click. One or more themes must be selected
   (highlighted) in the Table of Contents before using this tool. The
   attribute information will be displayed in a separate browser display
   window.

   Gray Box containing black lightening bolt HYPERLINK
   Pressing this button allows you to display related HTML file or image
   (if available) by clicking on a feature. A theme must be selected
   (highlighted) in the Table of Contents before using this tool

   Gray Box containing blue character X and red character Y
   LATITUDE/LONGITUDE
   Pressing this button allows you to display the latitude and longitude
   coordinates(dms) for any location contained in the map display window.
   Click the mouse with the cursor at the desired location and the
   coordinates are displayed in a box at the lower right corner of the
   display.

   Gray Box containing left pointing black arrow BACK
   Pressing this button zooms back to the previous map extent you were
   viewing.

   Gray Box containing right pointing black arrow FORWARD
   Pressing this button zooms forward to the map extent you were viewing
   before pressing the Back button.

   Gray Box containing black arrows pointing inward ZOOMIN FIXED
   Pressing this button zooms in, by a fixed amount with the resulting map
   centered on the previous view center.

   Gray Box containing black arrows pointing outward ZOOMOUT FIXED
   Pressing this button zooms out, by a fixed amount with the resulting
   map centered on the previous view center.

   Gray Box containing black outline of house HOME
   Pressing this button returns the display to the initial map extent you
   saw when you first accessed the map.

   Gray Box containing globe ZOOM TO FULL EXTENT
   Pressing this button zooms to the extent of all the themes listed in
   the Table of Contents.

   Gray Box containing black box with upper left corner highlighted with
   black and yellow plus sign NEW MAP WINDOW
   Pressing this button opens up a new resizable map in a separate browser
   window. This is particularly useful if your screen resolution is not
   800 x 600. Opening a new window and clicking the maximum button on the
   new window allows the application to make full use of the available
   screen.

   Gray Box containing black box with empty rows and columns THEME TABLE
   Pressing this retrieves the attribute data for the theme(s) selected by
   the user in the Table of Contents. A theme must be highlighted in the
   Table of Contents before this tool is used.

   Gray Box containing black binoculars SEARCH
   Pressing this button brings up a dialog box where you can enter search
   criteria for locating specific map features. Look under (4) MapClient
   Tips for additional information on utilizing this tool.

   Gray Box containing black outline of computer printer PRINT
   Pressing this button downloads a graphic image (map layout) of the
   current map display. A separate Layout Options Window will appear
   allowing the user to enter a map title, select legend components, and
   select the graphic format for the layout. The map and possibly
   additional legend pages, will be downloaded as one or more new browser
   windows. Each window can be printed, using the browser's print
   function, as an 8.5" x 11" page. Be sure to select "Landscape" mode and
   "fit to page" for printer options. Each window can also be saved to
   disk for input into other applications.

   Gray Box containing black arrows oriented in a circle RELOAD
   Pressing this button reloads the current map.

   Gray Box containing white character X within dark gray circle STOP
   Pressing this button stops retrieving the map.

   Gray Box containing black question mark ABOUT
   Pressing this button enables you to get more information about the map
   you are using. Pressing this button displays a dialog containing the
   comments about the map such as which themes will currently display only
   at set map scales.

   Gray Box containing black arrow pointing left HIDE/SHOW TABLE OF
   CONTENTS
   Pressing this button allows the map Table of Contents to be hidden to
   increase the map display area. Pressing this button a second time
   restores the Table of Contents.

   Home:    Returns user to the Mineral Resources On-Line Spatial Data
   home page.
   Metadata:    A link to metadata records for each of the themes.
   Field Attribute Help:    This is a link to field attribute codes for
   several themes that have coded data.
   Map Display Help:    The current map display help page.

   4. MapClient Tips

          (1)To draw either the Mine Claim Density or NURE Sediment
          Chemistry data sets do not select the check box left of the
          title. Underneath the title select the appropriate data set. For
          example, if you want to display the Arizona Mine Claim Density
          data [Make sure you are zoomed in sufficiently close (see #3
          below)], select (click) the box next to AZ.

          (2) To improve performance, limit the number of datasets drawn
          at once and if possible, zoom in to a smaller area. A good start
          is turning off the Elevated Shaded Relief image located at the
          bottom of the Table of Contents unless it is desired as a
          background.

          (3) If you select a theme and nothing is drawn in the display
          window, the cause is most likely that the theme has a limited
          display scale. This means that the theme will draw only when you
          have zoomed in sufficiently close. To see which themes have
          display limits set, select the ? (About button) in the lower
          left hand corner.

          (4) If only a portion of the graphic is drawn in the MapClient
          display window, select the reload button.

          (5) Find Feature button:
          (a) If you do not know the exact spelling of the attribute you
          want to find, then you can use standard wildcards (* and ?) in
          place of the letter(s) you do not know.
          (b) If you are searching for a number that may be contained in a
          string field within the database, e.g., a FIPS code, you should
          place double quotes around that number, for example "435434".
          (c) A list of features matching your search criteria will be
          displayed in a standard theme table format. The table can then
          be manipulated as if it were a complete theme table.
          (d) The Find tool doesn't work on either GRID (raster) data or
          TIF images thus some of the themes won't be displayed in the
          Choose Layer scroll list.
          (5) Retrieve Theme Tabular Data:
          (a) Highlight only one theme in the Table of Contents before
          this tool is used.
          (b) The attribute data for all features in the current map
          extent, for the selected theme, will be downloaded as a table.
          (c) There is a limit to the size of the table downloaded to the
          client. All the attribute records will be downloaded until a
          maximum threshold is met. A message will appear at the bottom
          indicating the maximum number of rows displayed
          (d) After the table has been downloaded, select view (on table)
          to display a list of options that can be performed on the table
          data.
          (5) Download a map image for printing:
          (a) A graphic image (map layout) of the current map display can
          be created.
          (b) Enter a title for the layout of up to 3 lines of 40
          characters.
          (c) Select one of the following 3 image formats: JPEG, Placeable
          WMF (Windows Metafile), Postscript New (eps)
          Note: JPEG format is recommended due to the small file size that
          is generated.
          (d) Select one or more of the following options:

                (1) Legend: A separate legend will be created
                corresponding to only those themes currently selected (in
                the Table of Contents) and those features in the current
                map display.
                Note: The legend may consist of several files depending on
                the number of themes selected and the complexity of their
                legends.
                (2) North Arrow: A north arrow is displayed in the lower
                left portion of the image.
                (3) Scale Bar: A scale bar (mile units) is created.
                (4) Maintain Aspect Ratio of Map:

   5. Potential Problems and Recommended Solutions.

          (1) The Java applet MapClient fails to load.

          Your browser may not be 'Java enabled". If you are using
          Microsoft's Internet Explorer, go to the menu and click on View
          and under Options select Security and make sure the "Enable
          Java" programs box is checked. For Netscape users, go to the
          main menu and click on Edit and under Preferences select
          Advanced. Next, make sure that the "Enable Java" box is checked.
          (2) Netscape 4.0 users:

          Windows 95/98, NT systems running early versions of Netscape 4.0
          may lock-up when starting Java. Users should upgrade to Netscape
          version 4.08 or higher. On Windows NT systems, running Netscape
          4.04, users may experience problems when starting Java with the
          monitor set to display true color. Set the monitor to display
          16.7 million colors or fewer to fix this problem or upgrade to a
          more recent version.
          (3) Browser crashes or locks up when MapClient applet starts
          loading.

          Cause: There is a conflict between Java and your browser's
          Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler. This behavior may occur with either
          Netscape Communicator 4.x or Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.x. It
          does not happen to all machines running these browsers.
          Solution: Disable your browser's JIT compiler. To disable
          Microsoft Internet Explorer's JIT compiler: From the View menu,
          choose Internet Options, select the Advanced tab, scroll down to
          the Java VM section and uncheck the Java JIT compiler. Restart
          Internet Explorer. To disable Netscape Communicator's JIT
          compiler: Look for the file jit3240. DLL in Netscape's install
          directory. The default path to this file is
          C:\Netscape\Communicator4.04\Program\Java\Bin. Shutdown Netscape
          and rename the file to jit3240.old. Restart Netscape.
          Notes: Normally, when this happens with Netscape, the browser
          will freeze and you will have to shut it down with Task Manager
          on Windows NT and ctrl-alt-del on Windows 95. Typically Internet
          Explorer will just crash. In either case, you will need to
          disable the JIT compiler and restart the browser.
          (4) A Separate Window is displayed stating: Map Server is Busy".

          Cause: Many people are currently accessing the site at the same
          time.
          Solution: If possible, revisit the site at a later time when
          demand is lower.

          (5) Internet Explorer 3.02 hangs when MapClient is running on
          Windows NT 4.0 (with Service Pack 3)

          Cause: Internet Explorer version 3.02 may hang when connecting
          to a Web link that contains a Java application (e.g. MapClient)
          after you have installed Windows NT version 4.0 Service Pack 3.
          The application will stop responding only if the Display
          Properties Color Palette is set to True Color.
          Solution: Do not use the True Color palette in Display
          Properties.
          Notes: Microsoft has confirmed this as a problem in Windows NT
          version 4.0. A supported fix is now available, but is not fully
          regression-tested and should be applied only to systems
          experiencing this specific problem. Unless you are severely
          impacted by this specific problem, Microsoft recommends that you
          wait for the next Service Pack that contains this fix. Contact
          Microsoft Product Support Services for more information. The fix
          is also available for download on the Internet at the following
          URL:
          ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/bussys/winnt/winnt-public/fixes/usa/nt40
          /hotfixes- postSP3/java-fix. This information was taken from
          Microsoft TechNet, document ID Q168748.
          (6) Cannot view served maps with Internet Explorer 3.x on
          Windows.

          Cause: There is a conflict with the Java program and Internet
          Explorer's internal Java JIT (Just-In-Time) compiler.
          Solution: Download the update for the Microsoft Virtual Machine
          for Java from: http://www.microsoft.com/java
          Notes: See Microsoft TechNet Document Q168806 for more
          information or upgrade to a more recent browser version.
          (7) Netscape Communicator issues error: "The certificate issuer
          for this server isn't recognized by Netscape. The security
          certificate may or may not be valid." Or
          "java.lang.security.exception : system classes was not signed"

          For Netscape Communicator 4.5 users, go to the main menu and
          click on Edit and under Preferences select Advanced. Next, make
          sure that the "Enable Java" and "Enable JavaScript" boxes are
          checked. If you still receive these errors you will have to
          reinstall Netscape Communicator 4.5. Make sure that you first
          completely uninstall your previous version of Netscape utilizing
          Microsoft's Add/Remove programs (under control panel). Next,
          delete any previous Netscape profiles that were created.
          (Remember to manually save your bookmarks before doing this).
          You are now ready to install a clean version of Netscape
          Communicator 4.5.

   6. Contact Information

          If you experience any problems, or have a question or comment
          regarding the Mineral Resources On-Line Spatial Data site,
          please contact Tom Kress.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Go Back Arrow Go back.
   Pressing this page is <http://mrdata.usgs.gov/avimshelpmc.html>
   Maintained by Tom Kress
   Last Modified: 01/18/01
