http://aquila.lbl.gov/E896/


   HENA
   Home
   Page
   People
   STAR
   E866
   NuBE
   GMSD
   E878
   E896
   Transport
   UCB
   SSL
   LBNL
   INPA
   Community
   Service
   Comments
   Disclaimers,
   Copyrights
       [hena_sub.gif]
   [e896_tnb.gif]
   E896: Search for short-lived composite strange matter
   The E896 experiment is a search for the H0 dibaryon that may be
   produced in Au-Au collisions at 11 GeV/nucleon. The H0 is the lightest
   example of strange matter, a neutral particle consisting of 6 quarks;
   specifically 2us, 2ds, and 2ss. We investigate production from the AuAu
   system because we know that a typical central collision produces more
   than 20 hyperons in a very limited phase space, thereby opening a
   coalescence channel for the production of the H. We are searching for
   evidence of this new type of particle by analyzing weak decays into
   charged daughter products (e.g. H0-> S + p) in a large multi-plane
   drift chamber. For our analysis, the neutral decay vertex must be
   within the drift chamber fiducial volume.

   E896 completed its first data taking run in May 1998. Over 100 million
   central Au-Au events were recorded during that period. Using arguments
   outlined in the original proposal, this data set is expected to yield
   one million Kshort, one million L, 10,000 di-L, and theoretically
   (based on L coalescence) 50 H0 particles. Analysis is currently
   underway to cull the events containing those particles from the data
   set. At this time a first pass through all the data has been completed.
   A filter program tuned to identify Vs produced by L decays was
   implemented during this pass. This first pass filter, which should also
   be sensitive to H0 decay products, was determined to be running with a
   10% efficiency. The resultant set of 200K "V-rich" events is currently
   being scrutinized using different track reconstruction codes for clear
   evidence of the H0 particles existence. Meanwhile, attempts to increase
   the efficiency of the filtering codes is progressing, as is the
   development of code for a second pass through the data to determine the
   values of several calibration constants needed for the analysis of the
   different detectors used in the experiment. This second pass is
   expected to begin in late September, with a possible third data pass
   using improved filters anticipated during the coming winter.
   REFERENCE: Experiment 896 at the AGS
