http://discovery.nasa.gov/mission.html

   Mission Title
   Mission Overview
   Eight Discovery Missions have been chosen to date.

   NEAR Spacecraft On February 17, 1996, Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous
   was the first Discovery Program spacecraft to be launched and is the
   first spacecraft ever to orbit and land on an asteroid.
   More on NEAR...
   Mars Pathfinder Rover The Mars Pathfinder Mission is complete. The
   mission demonstrated a low cost method of delivering a set of science
   instruments and the Rover to the surface of Mars.
   More on Pathfinder...
   Lunar Prospector The science data returned from Lunar Prospector has
   enabled scientists to create detailed maps of the gravity, magnetic
   properties and chemical composition of the Moon's entire surface.
   More on Prospector...
   Stardust Spacecraft The Stardust spacecraft will collect comet dust and
   interstellar dust during a close encounter with Comet Wild 2 and return
   the particles to Earth for analysis by scientists worldwide.
   More on Stardust...
   Genesis Spacecraft On August 8, 2001, the Genesis spacecraft began its
   journey a million miles sunward, where it will "sunbathe" in orbit
   around L1 for over two years, before returning with particles of solar
   wind in September 2004.
   More on Genesis...
   CONTOUR Mission The Comet Nucleus Tour, or CONTOUR, mission is timed to
   encounter and study two diverse comets as they make their periodic
   visits to the inner solar system.
   More on CONTOUR...
   MESSENGER Mission MESSENGER, (MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment,
   GEochemistry, and Ranging) mission is a scientific investigation of the
   planet Mercury.
   More on MESSENGER...
   Deep Impact The Deep Impact Mission will propel a large copper
   projectile into the surface of a comet, creating a huge crater.
   More on Deep Impact...
   Two Discovery Missions of Opportunity have been selected.
   ASPERA-3 ASPERA-3 (Analyzer of Space Plasma and Energetic Atoms) will
   study the interaction between the solar wind and the Martian atmosphere
   when it travels on the Mars Express spacecraft, due to launch in June
   of 2003.
   More on ASPERA-3...
   NetLander NetLander will investigate the composition and structure of
   the interior of Mars, as well as near-surface weather and climate for
   one Martian year.
   More On NetLander

   Home | Program | Missions | News | Get Involved | Education | Resources
   | Site Map

   Go to NASA Headquarters Send your feedback to the Curator, Shari
   Asplund.
   Site design by Jayne Dutra, JPL. Additional support provided by Kelly
   Winters.
   Last updated 1/17/02.
   USA Flag
