http://www.amtrakreformcouncil.gov/act.html


     Amtrak Reform Council logo



                                    Home

                                 Press Room

                     Members of the Council

                          About ARC and its Staff

                              All ARC Reports
                  ARC Letters of Recommendation to Amtrak

                       ARC Testimony before Congress
                            Past Press Releases
                         Meeting Schedule for 2002
                              Council Minutes
              The Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997

                    Congressional Reporting Requirements




                               The Amtrak Reform and
                            Accountability Act of 1997


   This document is also available in the PDF format (23 pages, 177k)

   (please note: you must have the Acrobat viewer installed on your system
   to view the PDF)

      [DOCID: f:publ134.105]

      [[Page 2569]]

      AMTRAK REFORM AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1997

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2570]]

      Public Law 105-134
      105th Congress

      An Act

      To reform the statutes relating to Amtrak, to authorize appropriations
      for Amtrak, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 2, 1997 - [S. 738]>>

      Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
      United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Amtrak Reform
      and Accountability Act of 1997. Intergovernmental relations. 49 USC
      20101 note.>>

      SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT OF TITLE 49; TABLE OF SECTIONS.

      (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Amtrak Reform and
      Accountability Act of 1997''.
      (b) Amendment of Title 49, United States Code.--Except as otherwise
      expressly provided, whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is
      expressed in terms of an amendment to, or a repeal of, a section or
      other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a
      section or other provision of title 49, United States Code.
      (c) Table of Sections.--The table of sections for this Act is as
      follows:

      Sec. 1. Short title; amendment of title 49; table of sections.
      Sec. 2. Findings.

      TITLE I--REFORMS

      Subtitle A--Operational Reforms

      Sec. 101. Basic system.
      Sec. 102. Mail, express, and auto-ferry transportation.
      Sec. 103. Route and service criteria.
      Sec. 104. Additional qualifying routes.
      Sec. 105. Transportation requested by States, authorities, and other
      persons.
      Sec. 106. Amtrak commuter.
      Sec. 107. Through service in conjunction with intercity bus operations.
      Sec. 108. Rail and motor carrier passenger service.
      Sec. 109. Passenger choice.
      Sec. 110. Application of certain laws.

      Subtitle B--Procurement

      Sec. 121. Contracting out.

      Subtitle C--Employee Protection Reforms

      Sec. 141. Railway Labor Act Procedures.
      Sec. 142. Service discontinuance.

      Subtitle D--Use of Railroad Facilities

      Sec. 161. Liability limitation.
      Sec. 162. Retention of facilities.

      TITLE II--FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY

      Sec. 201. Amtrak financial goals.
      Sec. 202. Independent assessment.
      Sec. 203. Amtrak Reform Council.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2571]]

      Sec. 204. Sunset trigger.
      Sec. 205. Senate procedure for consideration of restructuring and
      liquidation plans.
      Sec. 206. Access to records and accounts.
      Sec. 207. Officers' pay.
      Sec. 208. Exemption from taxes.
      Sec. 209. Limitation on use of tax refund.

      TITLE III--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

      Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

      TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

      Sec. 401. Status and applicable laws.
      Sec. 402. Waste disposal.
      Sec. 403. Assistance for upgrading facilities.
      Sec. 404. Demonstration of new technology.
      Sec. 405. Program master plan for Boston-New York main line.
      Sec. 406. Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
      Sec. 407. Definitions.
      Sec. 408. Northeast Corridor cost dispute.
      Sec. 409. Inspector General Act of 1978 amendment.
      Sec. 410. Interstate rail compacts.
      Sec. 411. Board of Directors.
      Sec. 412. Educational participation.
      Sec. 413. Report to Congress on Amtrak bankruptcy.
      Sec. 414. Amtrak to notify Congress of lobbying relationships.
      Sec. 415. Financial powers.

      SEC. 2. FINDINGS. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24101 note.>>

      The Congress finds that--
      (1) intercity rail passenger service is an essential
      component of a national intermodal passenger transportation
      system;
      (2) Amtrak is facing a financial crisis, with growing and
      substantial debt obligations severely limiting its ability to
      cover operating costs and jeopardizing its long-term viability;
      (3) immediate action is required to improve Amtrak's
      financial condition if Amtrak is to survive;
      (4) all of Amtrak's stakeholders, including labor,
      management, and the Federal Government, must participate in
      efforts to reduce Amtrak's costs and increase its revenues;
      (5) additional flexibility is needed to allow Amtrak to
      operate in a businesslike manner in order to manage costs and
      maximize revenues;
      (6) Amtrak should ensure that new management flexibility
      produces cost savings without compromising safety;
      (7) Amtrak's management should be held accountable to ensure
      that all investment by the Federal Government and State
      governments is used effectively to improve the quality of
      service and the long-term financial health of Amtrak;
      (8) Amtrak and its employees should proceed quickly with
      proposals to modify collective bargaining agreements to make
      more efficient use of manpower and to realize cost savings which
      are necessary to reduce Federal financial assistance;
      (9) Amtrak and intercity bus service providers should work
      cooperatively and develop coordinated intermodal relationships
      promoting seamless transportation services which enhance travel
      options and increase operating efficiencies;
      (10) Amtrak's Strategic Business Plan calls for the
      establishment of a dedicated source of capital funding for
      Amtrak in order to ensure that Amtrak will be able to fulfill
      the goals of maintaining--
      (A) a national passenger rail system; and
      (B) that system without Federal operating
      assistance; and

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2572]]

      (11) Federal financial assistance to cover operating losses
      incurred by Amtrak should be eliminated by the year 2002.

      TITLE I--REFORMS

      Subtitle A--Operational Reforms

      SEC. 101. BASIC SYSTEM.

      (a) Operation of Basic System.--(1) Section 24701 is amended to read
      as follows:

      ``Sec. 24701. National rail passenger transportation system

      ``Amtrak shall operate a national rail passenger transportation
      system which ties together existing and emergent regional rail
      passenger
      service and other intermodal passenger service.''.
      (2) The item relating to section 24701 in the table of sections of
      chapter 247 is amended to read as follows:

      ``24701. National rail passenger transportation system.''.

      (b) Improving Rail Passenger Transportation.--Section 24702 and the
      item relating thereto in the table of sections for chapter 247 are
      repealed.
      (c) Discontinuance.--Section 24706 is amended--
      (1) by striking ``90 days'' and inserting ``180 days'' in
      subsection (a)(1);
      (2) by striking ``24707(a) or (b) of this title,'' in
      subsection (a)(1) and inserting ``or discontinuing service over
      a route,'';
      (3) by inserting ``or assume'' after ``agree to share'' in
      subsection (a)(1);
      (4) by striking ``section 24707(a) or (b) of this title'' in
      subsection (a)(2) and inserting ``paragraph (1)''; and
      (5) by striking ``section 24707(a) or (b) of this title'' in
      subsection (b)(1) and inserting ``subsection (a)(1)''.

      (d) Cost and Performance Review.--Section 24707 and the item
      relating thereto in the table of sections for chapter 247 are repealed.
      (e) Special Commuter Transportation.--Section 24708 and the item
      relating thereto in the table of sections for chapter 247 are repealed.
      (f) Conforming Amendment.--Section 24312(a)(1) is amended by
      striking ``, 24701(a),''.

      SEC. 102. MAIL, EXPRESS, AND AUTO-FERRY TRANSPORTATION.

      Section 24306 is amended--
      (1) by striking the last sentence of subsection (a); and
      (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

      ``(b) Authority of Others To Provide Auto-Ferry Transportation.--
      State and local laws and regulations that impair the provision of auto-
      ferry transportation do not apply to Amtrak or a rail carrier providing
      auto-ferry transportation. A rail carrier may not refuse to participate
      with Amtrak in providing auto-ferry transportation because a State or
      local law or regulation makes the transportation unlawful.''.

      SEC. 103. ROUTE AND SERVICE CRITERIA.

      Section 24703 and the item relating thereto in the table of sections
      for chapter 247 are repealed.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2573]]

      SEC. 104. ADDITIONAL QUALIFYING ROUTES.

      Section 24705 and the item relating thereto in the table of sections
      for chapter 247 are repealed.
      SEC. 105. TRANSPORTATION REQUESTED BY STATES, AUTHORITIES, AND
      OTHER PERSONS.

      (a) Repeal.--Section 24704 and the item relating thereto in the
      table of sections of chapter 247 are repealed.
      (b) State, Regional, and Local Cooperation.--Section 24101(c)(2) is
      amended by inserting ``, separately or in combination,'' after ``and
      the
      private sector''.
      (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 24312(a)(1) is amended by
      striking ``or 24704(b)(2)''.

      SEC. 106. AMTRAK COMMUTER.

      (a) <<NOTE: 49 USC 245013et seq.>> Repeal of Chapter 245.--Chapter
      245 and the item relating thereto in the table of chapters for subtitle
      V of such title, are repealed.

      (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 24301(f) is amended to read as
      follows:
      ``(f) Tax Exemption for Certain Commuter Authorities.--A commuter
      authority that was eligible to make a contract with Amtrak Commuter to
      provide commuter rail passenger transportation but which decided to
      provide its own rail passenger transportation beginning January 1,
      1983,
      is exempt, effective October 1, 1981, from paying a tax or fee to the
      same extent Amtrak is exempt.''.
      (c) <<NOTE: 49 USC 24501 note.>> Trackage Rights Not Affected.--The
      repeal of chapter 245 of title 49, United States Code, by subsection
      (a)
      of this section is without prejudice to the retention of trackage
      rights
      over property owned or leased by commuter authorities.
      SEC. 107. THROUGH SERVICE IN CONJUNCTION WITH INTERCITY BUS
      OPERATIONS.

      (a) In General.--Section 24305(a) is amended by adding at the end
      the following new paragraph:
      ``(3)(A) Except as provided in subsection (d)(2), Amtrak may enter
      into a contract with a motor carrier of passengers for the intercity
      transportation of passengers by motor carrier over regular routes
      only--
      ``(i) if the motor carrier is not a public recipient of
      governmental assistance, as such term is defined in section
      13902(b)(8)(A) of this title, other than a recipient of funds
      under section 5311 of this title;
      ``(ii) for passengers who have had prior movement by rail or
      will have subsequent movement by rail; and
      ``(iii) if the buses, when used in the provision of such
      transportation, are used exclusively for the transportation of
      passengers described in clause (ii).

      ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to transportation funded
      predominantly by a State or local government, or to ticket selling
      agreements.''.
      (b) Policy Statement.--Section 24305(d) is amended by adding at the
      end the following new paragraph:
      ``(3) Congress encourages Amtrak and motor common carriers of
      passengers to use the authority conferred in sections 11322 and 14302
      of
      this title for the purpose of providing improved service to the public
      and economy of operation.''.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2574]]

      SEC. 108. RAIL AND MOTOR CARRIER PASSENGER SERVICE. <<NOTE: 49 USC
      24305
      note.>>

      (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law (other
      than section 24305(a)(3) of title 49, United States Code), Amtrak and
      motor carriers of passengers are authorized--
      (1) to combine or package their respective services and
      facilities to the public as a means of increasing revenues; and
      (2) to coordinate schedules, routes, rates, reservations,
      and ticketing to provide for enhanced intermodal surface
      transportation.

      (b) Review.--The authority granted by subsection (a) is subject to
      review by the Surface Transportation Board and may be modified or
      revoked by the Board if modification or revocation is in the public
      interest.

      SEC. 109. PASSENGER CHOICE. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24301 note.>>

      Federal employees are authorized to travel on Amtrak for official
      business where total travel cost from office to office is competitive
      on
      a total trip or time basis.

      SEC. 110. APPLICATION OF CERTAIN LAWS.

      (a) Application of FOIA.--Section 24301(e) is amended by adding at
      the end thereof the following: ``Section 552 of title 5, United States
      Code, applies to Amtrak for any fiscal year in which Amtrak receives a
      Federal subsidy.''.
      (b) <<NOTE: 49 USC 24301 note.>> Application of Federal Property
      and Administrative Services Act.--Section 303B(m) of the Federal
      Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253b(m))
      applies to a proposal in the possession or control of Amtrak.

      Subtitle B--Procurement

      SEC. 121. CONTRACTING OUT.

      (a) Repeal of Ban on Contracting Out.--Section 24312 is amended--
      (1) by striking subsection (b);
      (2) by striking ``(1)'' in subsection (a); and
      (3) by striking ``(2) Wage'' in subsection (a) and inserting
      ``(b) Wage Rates.--Wage''.

      (b) <<NOTE: 49 USC 24312 note.>> Amendment of Existing Collective
      Bargaining Agreement.--
      (1) Contracting out.--Any collective bargaining agreement
      entered into between Amtrak and an organization representing
      Amtrak employees before the date of enactment of this Act is
      deemed amended to include the language of section 24312(b) of
      title 49, United States Code, as that section existed on the day
      before the effective date of the amendments made by subsection
      (a).
      (2) Enforceability of amendment.--The amendment to any such
      collective bargaining agreement deemed to be made by paragraph
      (1) of this subsection is binding on all parties to the
      agreement and has the same effect as if arrived at by agreement
      of the parties under the Railway Labor Act.

      (c) <<NOTE: 49 USC 24312 note.>> Contracting-out Issues To Be
      Included in Negotiations.--Proposals on the subject matter of
      contracting out work, other than work related to food and beverage
      service, which results in the layoff of an Amtrak employee--

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2575]]

      (1) shall be included in negotiations under section 6 of the
      Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 156) between Amtrak and an
      organization representing Amtrak employees, which shall be
      commenced by--
      (A) the date on which labor agreements under
      negotiation on the date of enactment of this Act may be
      re-opened; or
      (B) November 1, 1999,
      whichever is earlier;
      (2) may, at the mutual election of Amtrak and an
      organization representing Amtrak employees, be included in any
      negotiation in progress under section 6 of the Railway Labor Act
      (45 U.S.C. 156) on the date of enactment of this Act; and
      (3) may not be included in any negotiation in progress under
      section 6 of the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 156) on the date
      of enactment of this Act, unless both Amtrak and the
      organization representing Amtrak employees agree to include it
      in the negotiation.

      No contract between Amtrak and an organization representing Amtrak
      employees, that is under negotiation on the date of enactment of this
      Act, may contain a moratorium that extends more than 5 years from the
      date of expiration of the last moratorium.
      (d) <<NOTE: 49 USC 24312 note.>> No Inference.--The amendment made
      by subsection (a)(1) is without prejudice to the power of Amtrak to
      contract out the provision of food and beverage services on board
      Amtrak
      trains or to contract out work not resulting in the layoff of Amtrak
      employees.

      Subtitle C <<NOTE: 49 USC 24706 note.>> --Employee Protection Reforms

      SEC. 141. RAILWAY LABOR ACT PROCEDURES.

      (a) Notices.--Notwithstanding any arrangement in effect before the
      date of the enactment of this Act, notices under section 6 of the
      Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 156) with respect to all issues relating
      to
      employee protective arrangements and severance benefits which are
      applicable to employees of Amtrak, including all provisions of Appendix
      C-2 to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation Agreement, signed
      July 5, 1973, shall be deemed served and effective on the date which is
      45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. Amtrak, and each
      affected labor organization representing Amtrak employees, shall
      promptly supply specific information and proposals with respect to each
      such notice.
      (b) National Mediation Board Efforts.--Except as provided in
      subsection (c), the National Mediation Board shall complete all
      efforts,
      with respect to the dispute described in subsection (a), under section
      5
      of the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 155) not later than 120 days after
      the date of the enactment of this Act.
      (c) Railway Labor Act Arbitration.--The parties to the dispute
      described in subsection (a) may agree to submit the dispute to
      arbitration under section 7 of the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 157),
      and any award resulting therefrom shall be retroactive to the date
      which
      is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
      (d) Dispute Resolution.--(1) With respect to the dispute described
      in subsection (a) which--

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2576]]

      (A) is unresolved as of the date which is 120 days after the
      date of the enactment of this Act; and
      (B) is not submitted to arbitration as described in
      subsection (c),

      Amtrak shall, and the labor organization parties to such dispute shall,
      within 127 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each
      select
      an individual from the entire roster of arbitrators maintained by the
      National Mediation Board. Within 134 days after the date of the
      enactment of this Act, the individuals selected under the preceding
      sentence shall jointly select an individual from such roster to make
      recommendations with respect to such dispute under this subsection. If
      the National Mediation Board is not informed of the selection under the
      preceding sentence 134 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
      the
      Board shall immediately select such individual.
      (2) No individual shall be selected under paragraph (1) who is
      pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of employees or
      any railroad.
      (3) The compensation of individuals selected under paragraph (1)
      shall be fixed by the National Mediation
      Board. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The second paragraph of section 10 of
      the Railway Labor Act shall apply to the expenses of such individuals
      as
      if such individuals were members of a board created under such section
      10.

      (4) If the parties to a dispute described in subsection (a) fail to
      reach agreement within 150 days after the date of the enactment of this
      Act, the individual selected under paragraph (1) with respect to such
      dispute shall make recommendations to the parties proposing contract
      terms to resolve the dispute.
      (5) If the parties to a dispute described in subsection (a) fail to
      reach agreement, no change shall be made by either of the parties in
      the
      conditions out of which the dispute arose for 30 days after
      recommendations are made under paragraph (4).
      (6) Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 160) shall not
      apply to a dispute described in subsection (a).
      (e) No Precedent for Freight.--Nothing in this Act, or in any
      amendment made by this Act, shall affect the level of protection
      provided to freight railroad employees and mass transportation
      employees
      as it existed on the day before the date of enactment of this Act.

      SEC. 142. SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.

      (a) Repeal.--Section 24706(c) is repealed.
      (b) Existing Contracts.--Any provision of a contract entered into
      before the date of the enactment of this Act between Amtrak and a labor
      organization representing Amtrak employees relating to employee
      protective arrangements and severance benefits applicable to employees
      of Amtrak is extinguished, including all provisions of Appendix C-2 to
      the National Railroad Passenger Corporation Agreement, signed July 5,
      1973.
      (c) Special Effective Date.--Subsections (a) and (b) of this section
      shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
      (d) Nonapplication of Bankruptcy Law Provision.--Section 1172(c) of
      title 11, United States Code, shall not apply to Amtrak and its
      employees.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2577]]

      Subtitle D--Use of Railroad Facilities

      SEC. 161. LIABILITY LIMITATION.

      (a) In General.--Chapter 281 is amended by adding at the end the
      following new section:

      ``Sec. 28103. Limitations on rail passenger transportation liability

      ``(a) Limitations.--(1) Notwithstanding any other statutory or
      common law or public policy, or the nature of the conduct giving rise
      to
      damages or liability, in a claim for personal injury to a passenger,
      death of a passenger, or damage to property of a passenger arising from
      or in connection with the provision of rail passenger transportation,
      or
      from or in connection with any rail passenger transportation operations
      over or rail passenger transportation use of right-of-way or facilities
      owned, leased, or maintained by any high-speed railroad authority or
      operator, any commuter authority or operator, any rail carrier, or any
      State, punitive damages, to the extent permitted by applicable State
      law, may be awarded in connection with any such claim only if the
      plaintiff establishes by clear and convincing evidence that the harm
      that is the subject of the action was the result of conduct carried out
      by the defendant with a conscious, flagrant indifference to the rights
      or safety of others. If, in any case wherein death was caused, the law
      of the place where the act or omission complained of occurred provides,
      or has been construed to provide, for damages only punitive in nature,
      this paragraph shall not apply.
      ``(2) The aggregate allowable awards to all rail passengers, against
      all defendants, for all claims, including claims for punitive damages,
      arising from a single accident or incident, shall not exceed
      $200,000,000.
      ``(b) Contractual Obligations.--A provider of rail passenger
      transportation may enter into contracts that allocate financial
      responsibility for claims.
      ``(c) Mandatory Coverage.--Amtrak shall maintain a total minimum
      liability coverage for claims through insurance and self-insurance of
      at
      least $200,000,000 per accident or incident.
      ``(d) Effect on Other Laws.--This section shall not affect the
      damages that may be recovered under the Act of April 27, 1908 (45
      U.S.C.
      51 et seq.; popularly known as the `Federal Employers' Liability Act')
      or under any workers compensation Act.
      ``(e) Definition.--For purposes of this section--
      ``(1) the term `claim' means a claim made--
      ``(A) against Amtrak, any high-speed railroad
      authority or operator, any commuter authority or
      operator, any rail carrier, or any State; or
      ``(B) against an officer, employee, affiliate
      engaged in railroad operations, or agent, of Amtrak, any
      high-speed railroad authority or operator, any commuter
      authority or operator, any rail carrier, or any State;
      ``(2) the term `punitive damages' means damages awarded
      against any person or entity to punish or deter such person or
      entity, or others, from engaging in similar behavior in the
      future; and

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2578]]

      ``(3) the term `rail carrier' includes a person providing
      excursion, scenic, or museum train service, and an owner or
      operator of a privately owned rail passenger car.''.

      (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 281 is
      amended by adding at the end the following new item:

      ``28103. Limitations on rail passenger transportation liability.''.

      SEC. 162. RETENTION OF FACILITIES.

      Section 24309(b) is amended by inserting ``or on January 1, 1997,''
      after ``1979,''.

      TITLE II--FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY

      SEC. 201. AMTRAK FINANCIAL GOALS.

      Section 24101(d) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
      following: ``Amtrak shall prepare a financial plan to operate within
      the
      funding levels authorized by section 24104 of this chapter, including
      budgetary goals for fiscal years 1998 through 2002. Commencing no later
      than the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the Amtrak
      Reform and Accountability Act of 1997, Amtrak shall operate without
      Federal operating grant funds appropriated for its benefit.''.

      SEC. 202. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24101
      note. Contracts.>>

      (a)Initiation.--Not later than 15 days after the date of enactment
      of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall contract with an
      entity independent of Amtrak and not in any contractual relationship
      with Amtrak, and independent of the Department of Transportation, to
      conduct a complete independent assessment of the financial requirements
      of Amtrak through fiscal year 2002. The entity shall have demonstrated
      knowledge about railroad industry accounting requirements, including
      the
      uniqueness of the industry and of Surface Transportation Board
      accounting requirements. The Department of Transportation, Office of
      Inspector General, shall approve the entity's statement of work and the
      award and shall oversee the contract. In carrying out its
      responsibilities under the preceding sentence, the Inspector General's
      Office shall perform such overview and validation or verification of
      data as may be necessary to assure that the assessment conducted under
      this subsection meets the requirements of this section.
      (b) Assessment Criteria.--The Secretary and Amtrak shall provide to
      the independent entity estimates of the financial requirements of
      Amtrak
      for the period described in subsection (a), using as a base the fiscal
      year 1997 appropriation levels established by the Congress. The
      independent assessment shall be based on an objective analysis of
      Amtrak's funding needs.
      (c) Certain Factors To Be Taken into Account.--The independent
      assessment shall take into account all relevant factors, including
      Amtrak's--
      (1) cost allocation process and procedures;
      (2) expenses related to intercity rail passenger service,
      commuter service, and any other service Amtrak provides;
      (3) Strategic Business Plan, including Amtrak's projected
      expenses, capital needs, ridership, and revenue forecasts; and
      (4) assets and liabilities.

      For purposes of paragraph (3), in the capital needs part of its
      Strategic Business Plan Amtrak shall distinguish between that

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2579]]

      portion of the capital required for the Northeast Corridor and that
      required outside the Northeast Corridor, and shall include rolling
      stock
      requirements, including capital leases, ``state of good repair''
      requirements, and infrastructure improvements.
      (d) Bidding Practices.--
      (1) Study.--The independent assessment also shall determine
      whether, and to what extent, Amtrak has performed each year
      during the period from 1992 through 1996 services under contract
      at amounts less than the cost to Amtrak of performing such
      services with respect to any activity other than the provision
      of intercity rail passenger transportation, or mail or express
      transportation. For purposes of this clause, the cost to Amtrak
      of performing services shall be determined using generally
      accepted accounting principles for contracting. If identified,
      such contracts shall be detailed in the report of the
      independent assessment, as well as the methodology for
      preparation of bids to reflect Amtrak's actual cost of
      performance.
      (2) Reform.--If the independent assessment performed under
      this subparagraph reveals that Amtrak has performed services
      under contract for an amount less than the cost to Amtrak of
      performing such services, with respect to any activity other
      than the provision of intercity rail passenger transportation,
      or mail or express transportation, then Amtrak shall revise its
      methodology for preparation of bids to reflect its cost of
      performance.

      (e) Deadline.--The independent assessment shall be completed not
      later than 180 days after the contract is awarded, and shall be
      submitted to the Council established under section 203, the Secretary
      of
      Transportation, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
      of the United States Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and
      Infrastructure of the United States House of Representatives.

      SEC. 203. AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24101 note.>>

      (a) Establishment.--There is established an independent commission
      to be known as the Amtrak Reform Council.
      (b) Membership.--
      (1) In general.--The Council shall consist of 11 members, as
      follows:
      (A) The Secretary of Transportation.
      (B) <<NOTE: President.>> Two individuals appointed
      by the President, of which--
      (i) one shall be a representative of a rail
      labor organization; and
      (ii) one shall be a representative of rail
      management.
      (C) Three individuals appointed by the Majority
      Leader of the United States Senate.
      (D) One individual appointed by the Minority Leader
      of the United States Senate.
      (E) Three individuals appointed by the Speaker of
      the United States House of Representatives.
      (F) One individual appointed by the Minority Leader
      of the United States House of Representatives.
      (2) Appointment criteria.--

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2580]]

      (A) Time for initial appointments.--Appointments
      under paragraph (1) shall be made within 30 days after
      the date of enactment of this Act.
      (B) Expertise.--Individuals appointed under
      subparagraphs (C) through (F) of paragraph (1)--
      (i) may not be employees of the United States;
      (ii) may not be board members or employees of
      Amtrak;
      (iii) may not be representatives of rail labor
      organizations or rail management; and
      (iv) shall have technical qualifications,
      professional standing, and demonstrated expertise
      in the field of corporate management, finance,
      rail or other transportation operations, labor,
      economics, or the law, or other areas of expertise
      relevant to the Council.
      (3) Term.--Members shall serve for terms of 5 years. If a
      vacancy occurs other than by the expiration of a term, the
      individual appointed to fill the vacancy shall be appointed in
      the same manner as, and shall serve only for the unexpired
      portion of the term for which, that individual's predecessor was
      appointed.
      (4) Chairman.--The Council shall elect a chairman from among
      its membership within 15 days after the earlier of--
      (A) the date on which all members of the Council
      have been appointed under paragraph (2)(A); or
      (B) 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
      (5) Majority required for action.--A majority of the members
      of the Council present and voting is required for the Council to
      take action. No person shall be elected chairman of the Council
      who receives fewer than 5 votes.

      (c) Administrative Support.--The Secretary of Transportation shall
      provide such administrative support to the Council as it needs in order
      to carry out its duties under this section.
      (d) Travel Expenses.--Each member of the Council shall serve without
      pay, but shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of
      subsistence, in accordance with section 5702 and 5703 of title 5,
      United
      States Code.
      (e) Meetings.--Each meeting of the Council, other than a meeting at
      which proprietary information is to be discussed, shall be open to the
      public.
      (f) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> Access to Information.--Amtrak shall
      make available to the Council all information the Council requires to
      carry out its duties under this section. The Council shall establish
      appropriate procedures to ensure against the public disclosure of any
      information obtained under this subsection that is a trade secret or
      commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.

      (g) Duties.--
      (1) Evaluation and recommendation.--The Council shall--
      (A) evaluate Amtrak's performance; and
      (B) make recommendations to Amtrak for achieving
      further cost containment and productivity improvements,
      and financial reforms.
      (2) Specific considerations.--In making its evaluation and
      recommendations under paragraph (1), the Council shall consider
      all relevant performance factors, including--

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2581]]

      (A) Amtrak's operation as a national passenger rail
      system which provides access to all regions of the
      country and ties together existing and emerging rail
      passenger corridors;
      (B) appropriate methods for adoption of uniform cost
      and accounting procedures throughout the Amtrak system,
      based on generally accepted accounting principles; and
      (C) management efficiencies and revenue
      enhancements, including savings achieved through labor
      and contracting negotiations.
      (3) Monitor work-rule savings.--If, after January 1, 1997,
      Amtrak enters into an agreement involving work-rules intended to
      achieve savings with an organization representing Amtrak
      employees, then Amtrak shall report quarterly to the Council--
      (A) the savings realized as a result of the
      agreement; and
      (B) how the savings are allocated.

      (h) Annual Report.--Each year before the fifth anniversary of the
      date of enactment of this Act, the Council shall submit to the Congress
      a report that includes an assessment of--
      (1) Amtrak's progress on the resolution of productivity
      issues; or
      (2) the status of those productivity issues,

      and makes recommendations for improvements and for any changes in law
      it
      believes to be necessary or appropriate.
      (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be
      appropriated to the Council such sums as may be necessary to enable the
      Council to carry out its duties.

      SEC. 204. SUNSET TRIGGER. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24101 note.>>

      (a) In General.--If at any time more than 2 years after the date of
      enactment of this Act and implementation of the financial plan referred
      to in section 24104(d) of title 49, United States Code, as amended by
      section 201 of this Act, the Amtrak Reform Council finds that--
      (1) Amtrak's business performance will prevent it from
      meeting the financial goals set forth in section 24104(d) of
      title 49, United States Code, as amended by section 201 of this
      Act; or
      (2) Amtrak will require operating grant funds after the
      fifth anniversary of the date of enactment of this Act,

      then the Council shall immediately notify the President, the Committee
      on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the United States Senate,
      and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the United
      States House of Representatives.
      (b) Factors Considered.--In making a finding under subsection (a),
      the Council shall take into account--
      (1) Amtrak's performance;
      (2) the findings of the independent assessment conducted
      under section 202;
      (3) the level of Federal funds made available for carrying
      out the financial plan referred to in section 24104(d) of title
      49, United States Code, as amended by section 201 of this Act;
      and
      (4) Acts of God, national emergencies, and other events
      beyond the reasonable control of Amtrak.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2582]]

      (c) Action Plan.--Within 90 days after the Council makes a finding
      under subsection (a)--
      (1) it shall develop and submit to the Congress an action
      plan for a restructured and rationalized national intercity rail
      passenger system; and
      (2) Amtrak shall develop and submit to the Congress an
      action plan for the complete liquidation of Amtrak, after having
      the plan reviewed by the Inspector General of the Department of
      Transportation and the General Accounting Office for accuracy
      and reasonableness.
      SEC. 205. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24101 note.>> SENATE PROCEDURE FOR
      CONSIDERATION OF RESTRUCTURING AND
      LIQUIDATION PLANS.

      (a) In General.--If, within 90 days (not counting any day on which
      either House is not in session) after a restructuring plan is submitted
      to the House of Representatives and the Senate by the Amtrak Reform
      Council under section 204 of this Act, an implementing Act with respect
      to a restructuring plan (without regard to whether it is the plan
      submitted) has not been passed by the Congress, then a liquidation
      disapproval resolution shall be introduced in the Senate by the
      Majority
      Leader of the Senate, for himself and the Minority Leader of the
      Senate,
      or by Members of the Senate designated by the Majority Leader and
      Minority Leader of the Senate. The liquidation disapproval resolution
      shall be held at the desk at the request of the Presiding Officer.
      (b) Consideration in the Senate.--
      (1) Referral and reporting.--A liquidation disapproval
      resolution introduced in the Senate shall be placed directly and
      immediately on the Calendar.
      (2) Implementing resolution from house.--When the Senate
      receives from the House of Representatives a liquidation
      disapproval resolution, the resolution shall not be referred to
      committee and shall be placed on the Calendar.
      (3) Consideration of single liquidation disapproval
      resolution.--After the Senate has proceeded to the consideration
      of a liquidation disapproval resolution under this subsection,
      then no other liquidation disapproval resolution originating in
      that same House shall be subject to the procedures set forth in
      this section.
      (4) Amendments.--No amendment to the resolution is in order
      except an amendment that is relevant to liquidation of Amtrak.
      Consideration of the resolution for amendment shall not exceed
      one hour excluding time for recorded votes and quorum calls. No
      amendment shall be subject to further amendment, except for
      perfecting amendments.
      (5) Motion nondebatable.--A motion to proceed to
      consideration of a liquidation disapproval resolution under this
      subsection shall not be debatable. It shall not be in order to
      move to reconsider the vote by which the motion to proceed was
      adopted or rejected, although subsequent motions to proceed may
      be made under this paragraph.
      (6) Limit on consideration.--
      (A) After no more than 20 hours of consideration of
      a liquidation disapproval resolution, the Senate shall
      proceed, without intervening action or debate (except as
      permitted under paragraph (9)), to vote on the final
      disposition thereof to the exclusion of all amendments
      not then pending

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2583]]

      and to the exclusion of all motions, except a motion to
      reconsider or table.
      (B) The time for debate on the liquidation
      disapproval resolution shall be equally divided between
      the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader or their
      designees.
      (7) Debate of amendments.--Debate on any amendment to a
      liquidation disapproval resolution shall be limited to one hour,
      equally divided and controlled by the Senator proposing the
      amendment and the majority manager, unless the majority manager
      is in favor of the amendment, in which case the minority manager
      shall be in control of the time in opposition.
      (8) No motion to recommit.--A motion to recommit a
      liquidation disapproval resolution shall not be in order.
      (9) Disposition of senate resolution.--If the Senate has
      read for the third time a liquidation disapproval resolution
      that originated in the Senate, then it shall be in order at any
      time thereafter to move to proceed to the consideration of a
      liquidation disapproval resolution for the same special message
      received from the House of Representatives and placed on the
      Calendar pursuant to paragraph (2), strike all after the
      enacting clause, substitute the text of the Senate liquidation
      disapproval resolution, agree to the Senate amendment, and vote
      on final disposition of the House liquidation disapproval
      resolution, all without any intervening action or debate.
      (10) Consideration of house message.--Consideration in the
      Senate of all motions, amendments, or appeals necessary to
      dispose of a message from the House of Representatives on a
      liquidation disapproval resolution shall be limited to not more
      than 4 hours. Debate on each motion or amendment shall be
      limited to 30 minutes. Debate on any appeal or point of order
      that is submitted in connection with the disposition of the
      House message shall be limited to 20 minutes. Any time for
      debate shall be equally divided and controlled by the proponent
      and the majority manager, unless the majority manager is a
      proponent of the motion, amendment, appeal, or point of order,
      in which case the minority manager shall be in control of the
      time in opposition.

      (c) Consideration in Conference.--
      (1) Convening of conference.--In the case of disagreement
      between the two Houses of Congress with respect to a liquidation
      disapproval resolution passed by both Houses, conferees should
      be promptly appointed and a conference promptly convened, if
      necessary.
      (2) Senate consideration.--Consideration in the Senate of
      the conference report and any amendments in disagreement on a
      liquidation disapproval resolution shall be limited to not more
      than 4 hours equally divided and controlled by the Majority
      Leader and the Minority Leader or their designees. A motion to
      recommit the conference report is not in order.

      (d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
      (1) Liquidation disapproval resolution.--The term
      ``liquidation disapproval resolution'' means only a resolution
      of either House of Congress which is introduced as provided in
      subsection (a) with respect to the liquidation of Amtrak.
      (2) Restructuring plan.--The term ``restructuring plan''
      means a plan to provide for a restructured and rationalized
      national intercity rail passenger transportation system.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2584]]

      (e) Rules of Senate.--This section is enacted by the Congress--
      (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate,
      and as such they are deemed a part of the rules of the Senate,
      but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed
      in the Senate in the case of a liquidation disapproval
      resolution; and they supersede other rules only to the extent
      that they are inconsistent therewith; and
      (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of the
      Senate to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure
      of the Senate) at any time, in the same manner and to the same
      extent as in the case of any other rule of the Senate.

      SEC. 206. ACCESS TO RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.

      Section 24315 is amended by adding at the end the following new
      subsection:
      ``(h) Access to Records and Accounts.--A State shall have access to
      Amtrak's records, accounts, and other necessary documents used to
      determine the amount of any payment to Amtrak required of the State.''.

      SEC. 207. OFFICERS' PAY.

      Section 24303(b) is amended by adding at the end the following:
      ``The preceding sentence shall not apply for any fiscal year for which
      no Federal assistance is provided to Amtrak.''.

      SEC. 208. EXEMPTION FROM TAXES.

      Section 24301(l)(1) is amended--
      (1) by striking so much as precedes ``exempt from a tax''
      and inserting the following:
      ``(1) In general.--Amtrak, a rail carrier subsidiary of
      Amtrak, and any passenger or other customer of Amtrak or such
      subsidiary, are'';
      (2) by striking ``tax or fee imposed'' and all that follows
      through ``levied on it'' and inserting ``tax, fee, head charge,
      or other charge, imposed or levied by a State, political
      subdivision, or local taxing authority on Amtrak, a rail carrier
      subsidiary of Amtrak, or on persons traveling in intercity rail
      passenger transportation or on mail or express transportation
      provided by Amtrak or such a subsidiary, or on the carriage of
      such persons, mail, or express, or on the sale of any such
      transportation, or on the gross receipts derived therefrom'';
      and
      (3) by amending the last sentence thereof to read as
      follows: ``In the case of a tax or fee that Amtrak was required
      to pay as of September 10, 1982, Amtrak is not exempt from such
      tax or fee if it was assessed before April 1, 1997.''.

      SEC. 209. LIMITATION ON USE OF TAX REFUND. <<NOTE: 49 USC 24104 note.>>

      (a) In General.--Amtrak may not use any amount received under
      section 977 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997--
      (1) for any purpose other than making payments to non-Amtrak
      States (pursuant to section 977(c) of that Act), or the
      financing of qualified expenses (as that term is defined in
      section 977(e)(1) of that Act); or
      (2) to offset other amounts used for any purpose other than
      the financing of such expenses.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2585]]

      (b) Report by ARC.--The Amtrak Reform Council shall report quarterly
      to the Congress on the use of amounts received by Amtrak under section
      977 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997.

      TITLE III--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

      SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

      (a) Amendment.--Section 24104(a) is amended to read as follows:
      ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the
      Secretary of Transportation--
      ``(1) $1,138,000,000 for fiscal year 1998;
      ``(2) $1,058,000,000 for fiscal year 1999;
      ``(3) $1,023,000,000 for fiscal year 2000;
      ``(4) $989,000,000 for fiscal year 2001; and
      ``(5) $955,000,000 for fiscal year 2002,

      for the benefit of Amtrak for capital expenditures under chapters 243,
      247, and 249 of this title, operating expenses, and payments described
      in subsection (c)(1) (A) through (C). In fiscal years following the
      fifth anniversary of the enactment of the Amtrak Reform and
      Accountability Act of 1997 no funds authorized for Amtrak shall be used
      for operating expenses other than those prescribed for tax liabilities
      under section 3221 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that are more
      than the amount needed for benefits of individuals who retire from
      Amtrak and for their beneficiaries.''.
      (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 172 note.>> Amtrak Reform Legislation.--This Act
      constitutes Amtrak reform legislation within the meaning of section
      977(f)(1) of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997.

      TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

      SEC. 401. STATUS AND APPLICABLE LAWS.

      Section 24301 is amended--
      (1) by striking ``rail carrier under section 10102'' in
      subsection (a)(1) and inserting ``railroad carrier under section
      20102(2) and chapters 261 and 281''; and
      (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:

      ``(c) Application of Subtitle IV.--Subtitle IV of this title shall
      not apply to Amtrak, except for sections 11301, 11322(a), 11502, and
      11706. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, Amtrak shall continue to
      be considered an employer under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974,
      the
      Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, and the Railroad Retirement Tax
      Act.''.

      SEC. 402. WASTE DISPOSAL.

      Section 24301(m)(1)(A) is amended by striking ``1996'' and inserting
      ``2001''.

      SEC. 403. ASSISTANCE FOR UPGRADING FACILITIES.

      Section 24310 and the item relating thereto in the table of sections
      for chapter 243 are repealed.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2586]]

      SEC. 404. DEMONSTRATION OF NEW TECHNOLOGY.

      Section 24314 and the item relating thereto in the table of sections
      for chapter 243 are repealed.

      SEC. 405. PROGRAM MASTER PLAN FOR BOSTON-NEW YORK MAIN LINE.

      (a) Repeal.--Section 24903 is repealed and the table of sections for
      chapter 249 is amended by striking the item relating to that section.
      (b) Conforming Amendments.--
      (1) Section 24902 is amended--
      (A) by striking subsections (a), (c), and (d) and
      redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (a) and
      subsections (e) through (m) as subsections (b) through
      (j), respectively; and
      (B) in subsection (j), as so redesignated by
      subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking ``(m)''.
      (2) Section 24904(a) is amended--
      (A) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph
      (6);
      (B) by striking ``; and'' at the end of paragraph
      (7) and inserting a period; and
      (C) by striking paragraph (8).

      SEC. 406. AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990.

      (a) <<NOTE: 49 USC 24307 note.>> Application to Amtrak.--
      (1) Access improvements at certain shared stations.--Amtrak
      is responsible for its share, if any, of the costs of
      accessibility improvements required by the Americans With
      Disabilities Act of 1990 at any station jointly used by Amtrak
      and a commuter authority.
      (2) Certain requirements not to apply until 1998.--Amtrak
      shall not be subject to any requirement under subsection (a)(1),
      (a)(3), or (e)(2) of section 242 of the Americans With
      Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12162) until January 1,
      1998.

      (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 24307 is amended--
      (1) by striking subsection (b); and
      (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

      SEC. 407. DEFINITIONS.

      Section 24102 is amended--
      (1) by striking paragraphs (2) and (11);
      (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (10) as
      paragraphs (2) through (9), respectively; and
      (3) by inserting ``, including a unit of State or local
      government,'' after ``means a person'' in paragraph (7), as so
      redesignated.

      SEC. 408. NORTHEAST CORRIDOR COST DISPUTE.

      Section 1163 of the Northeast Rail Service Act of 1981 (45 U.S.C.
      1111) is repealed.

      SEC. 409. INSPECTOR GENERAL ACT OF 1978 AMENDMENT.

      (a) Amendment.--
      (1) In general.--Section 8G(a)(2) of the Inspector General
      Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by striking ``Amtrak,''.
      (2) <<NOTE: 5 USC app. 8G note.>> Effective date.--The
      amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect at the
      beginning of the first fiscal year after a fiscal year for which
      Amtrak receives no Federal subsidy.

      [[Page 111 STAT. 2587]]

      (b) <<NOTE: 5 USC app. 8G note.>> Amtrak Not Federal Entity.--
      Amtrak shall not be considered a Federal entity for purposes of the
      Inspector General Act of 1978. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The preceding
      sentence shall apply for any fiscal year for which Amtrak receives no
      Federal subsidy.

      (c) <<NOTE: 5 USC app. 8G note.>> Federal Subsidy.--
      (1) Assessment.--In any fiscal year for which Amtrak
      requests Federal assistance, the Inspector General of the
      Department of Transportation shall review Amtrak's operations
      and conduct an assessment similar to the assessment required by
      section 202(a). <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Inspector General shall
      report the results of the review and assessment to--
      (A) the President of Amtrak;
      (B) the Secretary of Transportation;
      (C) the United States Senate Committee on
      Appropriations;
      (D) the United States Senate Committee on Commerc
