http://www.fedlearn.gsa.gov/Disclaimer.asp

          Federal Learning Technology Program Navigation Image Map

                                              Privacy Statement


Blank


Link to Info About Fed Learn About Fed Learn
Link to Support Solutions    Support Solutions
Link to Support Process      Support Process
Link to Technologies         Technologies
Link to Eaves Drop Inn       Eaves Drop Inn
Link to Staff                Meet Some of Our Staff
Link to Share Our Site       Share Our Site
Link to Guestbook            Guestbook

                                                   How we handle the information we gather when you visit our web site:

       We collect and store only the following information about you:

      The name of the domain from which you access the Internet (e.g.,
   erols.com, if you are connecting from an Erols account, or harvard.edu
    if you are connecting from Harvard University's domain); the date and
    time you access our site; the item you requested from the server; and
   the Internet address of the web site from which you linked directly to
    our site. Except as outlined in the Security section at the bottom of
   this document, we do not track or look at individuals' usage behavior.

                              What is a cookie?

    A cookie is a small piece of information that is sent to your browser
    -- along with a web page -- when you access a web site. There are two
     kinds of cookies. A session cookie is a line of text that is stored
    temporarily in your computer's RAM. Because a session cookie is never
   written to a drive, it is destroyed as soon as you close your browser.
   A persistent cookie is a more permanent line of text that gets saved by
   your browser to a file on your hard drive. If you have your browser set
   to notify you before accepting cookies, the notice will tell you if the
   cookie expires some time in the future or not. Persistent cookies have
       an expiration date in the future. Session cookies have no date
                            associated with them.

                             Our Use of Cookies:

                        We use only session cookies.

               If you identify yourself by sending an E-mail:

      When you send us personally identifying information (e.g., in an
      electronic mail message containing a question or comment), or by
      filling out a form that e-mails us this information, we use this
   information to respond to your request. We may also forward your E-mail
      to other Government employees, who are better able to answer your
                                 questions.

   We want to make it clear that we will not obtain personally identifying
     information about you when you visit our site, unless you choose to
    provide such information to us. Except for authorized law enforcement
    investigations, or as otherwise required by law, we do not share any
              information we receive with any outside parties.

                            Links to other sites:

    The documents posted on this Web site may contain hypertext links or
     pointers to information created and maintained by other public and
      private organizations. These links and pointers are provided for
   visitors' convenience. GSA does not control or guarantee the accuracy,
     timeliness, or completeness of any linked information from non-GSA
     sites. The inclusion of links or pointers to other web sites is not
       intended to assign importance to those sites or the information
   contained therein, nor is it intended to endorse or recommend any views
         expressed, or products or services offered on these sites.

                              Personalization:

   Some GSA sites allow you to personalize them, either by selecting sets
   of content to place on a web page or by clicking on an icon indicating
   a desire for a certain kind of content. In some cases, you are asked to
    "register" in order to get this personalized content. If you provide
    personally identifying information when registering for personalized
    content, that information is only used to deliver the content to you.
            The information is never shared with any third party.

                                  Security:

     For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
      available to all users, GSA web servers employ industry-standard
   methods to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to
    upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. Unauthorized
   attempts to upload information or change information on GSA servers are
       strictly prohibited and may be punishable by law, including the
      Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
                       Infrastructure Protection Act.

      In the specific context of this security monitoring, there is no
       expectation of privacy. However, only in the case of actual law
     enforcement investigations, will we attempt to identify individual
                        users or their usage habits.

                               Return to top.
         If you have any questions about these policies, contact us.

   Bottom
