http://www.cstl.nist.gov/FY2000TAR/11_dnatech.pdf

   '1$ 7HFKQRORJLHV CSTL's role in the area of DNA technology primarily
   focuses on the needs of the diagnostic and forensic communities. CSTL
   efforts are concentrated in three areas, standards development, nucleic
   acid characterization, and measurement development. The CSTL work has
   become an essential touchstone for crime laboratories by providing a
   solid accuracy base. In addition, we are developing standards for the
   measurement of oxidatively modified DNA bases that will provide
   diagnostic tools for monitoring and establishing early treatment for
   the elderly. These standards will play a critical role in quality
   control and monitoring of tissue and tissue engineered products.
   Currently, there are no government or industry accepted quality control
   standards and biomarkers. CSTL has responded to a vital industry need
   for high throughput analysis of genetic samples by developing
   innovative mass spectrometric methodology in the newly established DNA
   mass spectrometry laboratory that houses a state-of-the-art high-speed
   MALDI time-of-flight spectrometer with automated sample preparation.
   CSTL has lead the effort in the development of electrochromatographic
   preparative bioseparations, to respond to urgent industry needs for
   separation methods for large quantities of multiple physical forms of
   DNA Development of Standards for the Measurement of Oxidatively
   Modified DNA Bases H. Rodriguez, P. Jaruga, and M. Dizdar (831) The
   fastest-growing segment of the United States population is age 65 years
   and older. Longevity Medicine will then become one of the most profound
   social and economic forces of the 21st Century, restructuring and
   redirecting the annual trillion-dollar-plus economics of the health
   care establishment in radical new ways. Scientists now know that
   oxidant by-products from normal metabolism and exogenous sources cause
   extensive damage to DNA, protein and lipid (fat). Scientists now argue
   that this damage, known as oxidative stress is a major contributor to
   aging and the degenerative diseases associated with aging. In 1998, a
   European Standards Committee on Oxidative DNA Damage was organized to
   implement the use of measurement standards for the various technologies
   used in monitoring oxidative stress. It was concluded that measurement
   standards were needed for this purpose. Furthermore, clinical reference
   laboratories in the United SRM 2396 - Oxidatively Modified States have
   also expressed a need for such standards. DNA Base Biomarkers Cambridge
   Isotope Laboratories synthesized five stable isotope-labeled compounds
   to be used as reference standards. Cambridge Isotope Laboratories
   provided GC/MS and NMR data with each of the five compounds purchased
   and certified the purity of the compounds and the isotopic content to
   be better than 98%, which was confirmed at NIST. NMR measurements of
   the five compounds were performed. The data was used to verify the
   purity of the compounds. Each of the compounds was analyzed by GC/MS
   according to the procedures previously developed at NIST. The isotopic
   content of the compounds were verified by mass spectrometry. A
   methodology was developed for analysis of the compounds by LC/MS using
   a reversed-phase column. All compounds had molecular ions and other
   characteristic ions expected from this class of compounds. Mass 103
   spectra confirmed the isotopic content of the compounds in agreement
   with GC/MS measurements. Their purity was found to be better than 99%.
   UV spectra of the compounds were recorded. The spectra were in
   agreement with those previously published data. The concentration of
   the solutions was confirmed by this technique as well. Future plans are
   to continue synthesizing and characterizing the six remaining compounds
   needed. Development of a Heteroplasmic Mitochondrial DNA Standard
   Reference Material for Detection of Heteroplasmy and Low-Frequency
   Mutations B.C. Levin, F.P. Schwarz (831), and L.A. Tully (National
   Institute of Justice) A heteroplasmic human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)
   standard reference material (SRM) is being developed to provide quality
   control to forensic, medical, and toxicological scientists who wish to
   determine their detection limits when examining low frequency mutations
   or heteroplasmic sites in DNA. While the detection of a mutation
   present in every mtDNA molecule is routine, it is extremely difficult
   to detect mutations present in only a small proportion of the
   molecules. Human mtDNA mixtures containing a single
   polymorphic/wild-type site in different percentages have been
   constructed from Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) products from two
   different cell culture lines that differed by one base pair in the
   amplified region. Various mutation detection techniques, including
   automated sequencing, denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE),
   peptide-nucleic acid (PNA)-directed PCR clamping, were used to
   determine the lowest detectable level of the heteroplasmy in our
   mixtures. The Pre-symptomatic mtDNA diseases may mixtures were sent to
   twelve laboratories in an become treatable, and perhaps even
   Interlaboratory Evaluation of the SRM. Using preventable. These more
   sensitive automated DNA sequencing chemistries (ABI Dye- techniques may
   permit toxicologists to Terminator, dRhodamine Terminator, Big Dye
   detect the effects of chemical and Terminator), unambiguous detection
   of the physical mutagens before they cause polymorphism present at the
   30% level was adverse health and environmental achieved. Although
   visible at the 10% and 20% problems. concentrations, it was difficult
   to distinguish the In addition, forensic scientists will be
   polymorphism from the background. With DGGE, able to detect low
   frequency heteroplasmic sites thereby increasing resolution at the 5%
   level was achieved. Addition of their ability to make correct human PNA
   complementary to the wild-type sequence, identifications. decreased PCR
   amplification of the wild-type DNA, but selectively amplified the
   polymorphism, thus detection by sequencing became possible at the 5%
   level. The results of the Interlaboratory Evaluation of this SRM are
   currently under evaluation. This SRM can be employed to test and
   perfect more sensitive mutation detection techniques. 104 Quality
   Control Methods for Primers in Commercial STR Kits J. Butler and P.
   Vallone (831) Forensic DNA laboratories utilize commercial kits to
   perform DNA tests involving short tandem repeat (STR) markers. These
   kits contain primers or short oligonucleotides that are utilized for
   targeting unique sites in the human genome to provide DNA amplification
   with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Results from STR tests are
   being placed in DNA databases around the world in order to link serial
   crimes and solve crimes committed by repeat offenders. Good quality
   control of the PCR primers included in STR multiplex kits will help
   maintain consistent and reliable results over time as these kits are
   used to amplify DNA samples from convicted offenders and crime scene
   samples. Altering even a single PCR primer within a kit has the
   potential to Comparison of mass spectral analysis of 4 impact the
   accuracy of STR results. Therefore different STR kits demonstrating
   that development of methods for an independent primers present within
   these kits have the verification of the PCR primers contained in same
   mass and therefore are unchanged multiplex STR kits was undertaken.
   Using high from kit to kit. Not all primers are present performance
   liquid chromatography and time-of- in all kits. Only one primer, D3-F,
   is flight mass spectrometry, new methods for rapid present in all four
   kits shown here. quality control testing of primers contained within
   CSTL's efforts resulted in the development of a unique profile for each
   kit that can be used to verify that primer sequences in the kit remain
   constant over time. 105 Development of New Y Chromosome Short Tandem
   Repeat Multiplex Assays J. Butler, C. Ruitberg, and M. Kline (831) The
   Y chromosome is in many ways the final frontier of forensic DNA
   analysis. Most forensic tests now focus on short tandem repeat (STR)
   markers present on non-sex chromosomes. In forensic cases where a
   mixture of body fluids might be present, such as in a sexual assault,
   the ability to target the male portion of a DNA sample has the
   potential to lead to more rapid identification of the perpetrator of
   such crimes. However, a standard set of DNA markers on the Y chromosome
   have not yet been agreed upon and no kits are commercially available to
   enable widespread use of a set of Y chromosome markers. Therefore
   production of improved Y chromosome assays was undertaken in order to
   aid the forensic DNA typing community. New primer pairs were designed
   to simultaneously amplify 10 separate regions of the Y chromosome in a
   multiplex PCR reaction. The resulting PCR products are labeled with
   three different colored fluorescent dyes, FAM (blue), TET (green), and
   HEX (yellow). Previously, no group had successfully amplified more than
   6 regions of the Y chromosome simultaneously. Our new multiplex
   amplifies 10 Y STRs, permitting a greater power of discrimination in
   each test of the Y Data from a single PCR amplification showing that 10
   different Y chromosome STR markers chromosome. The markers in our
   multiplex can be measured simultaneously include DYS436, DYS439,
   DYS435, DYS19, Y GATA A7.1, Y GATA H4, DYS391, DYS392, DYS438, and
   DYS437. Development of SRM 2395 is ongoing, and will contain male DNA
   samples and certified results using multiple Y chromosome markers. The
   new Y STR 10plex will be examined to distinguish unrelated male
   individuals from one another by examining the variation in STR alleles
   in a population of 100 or more individuals and to publish the results
   of this population study. We also hope to expand our multiplex to
   perhaps as many as 20 Y STRs in order to further increase the power of
   discrimination in this DNA assay. 106 Examination of DNA Stability on
   Different Storage Media M. Kline, J. Redman (831), and D. Duewer (839)
   The recovery of genetically typeable DNA is important to the Human
   Identity Communities; Federal and state forensic DNA repositories for
   convicted offenders, the Department of Defense's DNA Registry for
   military personnel reference samples, and individuals storing samples
   from their children against future need. CSTL initiated this study CSTL
   efforts addressed a critical need in 1994 with S&S 903TM paper
   (Schleicher & Schuell, to document the long-term stability of
   Inc.Keene, NH). Bloodstains on this medium were DNA extracted from
   bloodstains that stored at ambient temperature, -20° C, -80° C, and (-
   have been stored on different paper 150° C, the liquid nitrogen vapor
   temperature. Two based storage media. additional complementary studies
   included bloodstains stored on S&S IsoCode® paper (stored ambient) with
   S&S 903 paper control stains stored at -20° C (5Y), and FTA® paper
   (FITZCO, Inc. Maple Plain,MN) and S&S 903 paper with bloodstains vacuum
   sealed in mylar pouches and stored at +37° C, ambient temperature, and
   20° C (3Y). On a regular basis we removed samples for analysis from all
   studies. The data obtained from these studies was examined
   quantitatively using the average peak heights obtained from the Short
   Tandem Repeat typing data. Throughout the six year study typeable DNA
   from all samples at all storage temperatures was obtainable. The
   samples stored at 150° C appeared to be the same as fresh bloodstains,
   while the ambient temperature samples appear brown in color. Results
   for the six year time point samples show a slight decrease in the
   amount of PCR product from the ambient temperature stored material as
   compared to the bloodstains stored frozen. From 12 to 24 months the
   ambient samples amplified better, while from 39 to 72 months, the 20° C
   samples amplified better. In 1995, fresh bloodstains were prepared on
   both media as controls. Analysis showed no real differences in
   amplification between five year S&S 903 samples and the Time Zero (TZ)
   S&S 903 samples. The TZ IsoCode samples amplified better than the TZ
   S&S 903 samples. The TZ IsoCode samples amplified better than the five
   year IsoCode samples. Finally the five year S&S 903 samples amplified
   better than the five year IsoCode samples. Analysis of three year
   samples of FTA/S&S 903 bloodstains resulted in typeable DNA from all
   samples regardless of the media or the storage temperature.
   Continuation of the storage studies will be pursued. Effect of Single
   Mutations on the Specificities of DNA Repair Enzymes M. Dizdar (831),
   J. and P. Radicella (Guest Researchers) Oxidative DNA damage has been
   implicated in mutagenesis, carcinogenesis and aging. In cells, there
   are repair systems that oppose DNA damage. If not repaired, DNA damage
   may lead to detrimental biological consequences. Mutations in repair
   genes cause significant modifications in substrate specificities of DNA
   repair enzymes coded by these genes and may play an important role in
   carcinogenesis. The effect of single mutations on the substrate
   specificity of E. coli Fpg protein and its homolog human Ogg1 protein
   has not been reported. Oxidative damage generates a multitude of
   modified bases in DNA. An accurate measurement of these modified bases
   is achieved by the use of gas chromatography/isotope-dilution mass
   spectrometry. Because of its ability to simultaneously measure a
   multitude of modified bases in DNA, this technique permits to study the
   substrate specificities of DNA repair enzymes and their Micrograph of
   excision kinetics. In this study, we used this unique approach
   Eschrichia coli to determine the effect of single mutations on the
   substrate specifities of two major DNA repair enzymes that are involved
   in the DNA repair in E. coli and in humans. A variety of mutated
   proteins were obtained using site-directed mutagenesis and PCR- based
   techniques. Fpg proteins were overexpressed in fpg- E. coli and
   purified to apparent homogeneity. The results indicated Lys-57 had an
   important role in the activity of the Fpg protein. 107 Mutations
   involving Lys-155 and Pro-2 had a dramatic effect with Pro-2 Glu
   leading to complete loss of activity, indicating a significant role of
   these residues. Two different mutant forms of the wild type human Ogg1
   protein have been identified in human kidney tumors and a gastric
   cancer cell line. The mutant proteins were expressed in E. coli and
   purified to homogeneity. All three enzymes excised two purine-derived
   lesions from -irradiated DNA containing a multiplicity of base lesions.
   Michaelis-Menten kinetics of excision was measured, and significant
   differences between excision kinetics of these three enzymes were
   observed. These results show that point mutations significantly change
   the specificity of E. coli Fpg protein and human Ogg1 protein and
   suggest that point mutations are can be expected to change the
   specificities of other DNA repair enzymes. This work will be extended
   to other DNA repair enzymes and their mutant proteins that are found in
   E. coli and in human tumors. Development of Measurement Technologies
   for the Measurement of Oxidative DNA Damage by Liquid
   Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS) M. Dizdar, P. Jaruga, and H.
   Rodriguez (831) Tissue-engineered products require precise measurement
   oxidative DNA damage for quality control, but there are no generally
   accepted standards to do this at this time. LC/MS technology has not
   been applied for this purpose before. So, this project was undertaken
   to determine if tissue engineered skin products have oxidative DNA
   damage due to the manufacturing processes, with results obtained used
   to complement the data obtained using gas chromatography/mass
   spectrometry (GC/MS). A number of LC columns and solvents were examined
   to explore optimum measurement conditions of intact nucleosides and
   bases, and an excellent LC separation of intact DNA nucleosides was
   achieved. Their mass spectra were recorded and were in accord with
   previously published mass spectra of DNA nucleosides. Next, aqueous
   solutions of individual nucleosides were exposed to ionizing radiation
   to generate typical, oxidatively induced products of DNA. Irradiated
   samples were then analyzed by LC/MS. Mass spectra of the products were
   recorded and interpreted on the basis of products of DNA previously
   known from GC/MS studies done at NIST. In particular, the efforts were
   concentrated on one particular product, 8-hydroxy-2'- deoxyguanosine
   (8-OH-dGuo), since this compound is mostly measured by different
   techniques around the world as a biomarker of oxidative DNA damage and
   thus oxidative stress. No studies on this compound using LC/MS
   technology exist. Preliminary results indicated that 8-OH-dGuo can be
   well measured in DNA by LC/MS. A stable isotope-labeled analogue of
   this compound, was used as an internal standard for quantitative
   measurement. Mass spectra of both authentic 8-OH-dGuo and 8-OH-dGuo-18O
   standard were recorded and interpreted, and showed intense molecular
   ions and typical fragment ions suitable for positive identification.
   Calibration plots for quantitative measurement were obtained using
   these two compounds. Analysis by LC/MS of DNA damaged by ionizing
   radiation showed that 8-OH-dGuo could be measured precisely by LC/MS
   under our experimental conditions. Irradiation of DNA at several
   different radiation doses provided linear dose-yield plots, indicating
   the accuracy of this technology. Future plans include the application
   of this measurement technology to measure the level of oxidative DNA
   damage in tissue-engineered skin cells. 108 Establishing a Novel DNA
   Mass Spectrometry Laboratory J. Butler and P. Vallone (831) The current
   hot topic for the biotechnology, genomics, and pharmaceutical
   industries is the examination of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
   for understanding human variation at the DNA level and development of
   new drug targets. More than 2 million SNPs are known to exist within
   the human genome. The ability to perform testing on a portion of these
   SNP markers in a high-throughput fashion can help identify the SNPs
   that are most relevant to a particular disease state. Likewise, a
   battery of SNP markers can have useful applications in human identity
   testing Bruker BIFLEX III TOF Mass Spectrometer MWG RoboAmp Robotic
   Workstation to link two biological samples originating from the same
   source. Time-of-flight mass spectrometry coupled with robotic sample
   preparation has the potential to meet the needs of high-throughput SNP
   genotyping because of rapid data collection with high accuracy. Through
   funding from the National Institute of Justice, we recently purchased a
   state-of-the-art time-of-flight mass spectrometer and robotic sample
   preparation workstation for performing DNA research projects. The
   Bruker BIFLEX III is capable of automated data collection using a fuzzy
   logic search algorithm. Multiple DNA samples can be processed in
   parallel using a liquid handling robot with integrated thermal cycler.
   We have developed methods for high-resolution DNA measurements
   important for quality control testing of PCR primers. We have also
   begun testing several approaches to typing SNP markers using the mass
   difference between the primer and extension product(s) in single base
   extension reactions. We intend to improve the capability of automated
   data collection through more homogeneous DNA-matrix crystal formation
   and smaller spots. We also want to develop robust protocols for testing
   SNP markers from the Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA. Preparative
   Bioseparations K.D. Cole (831) and C.M. Tellez (University of Illinois)
   Large-scale purification of nucleic acids is necessary to meet the
   needs of research and development laboratories and for uses as new
   classes of therapeutic agents. Production of large amounts of DNA for
   these industrial needs is a new challenge in Bioprocessing.
   Electrophoresis has proven to be a highly successful method for the
   separation of nucleic acids on an analytical scale. Electrophoresis in
   gels and capillaries is a high-resolution analytical method, but
   scale-up is difficult. Electrochromatography (EC) is proving to be a
   promising method to scale up the electrophoresis of nucleic acids. EC
   is the application of an axial electrical field to a chromatography
   column. This research has been done in collaboration with the company
   Life Technologies, Inc., which has provided a crude cellular extract
   that contained supercoiled circular DNA, nicked circular plasmid DNA
   (relaxed), linear genomic DNA (from host bacteria), RNA, and other
   cellular constituents. We have shown that EC can effectively separate
   supercoiled and open circular forms of plasmid DNA. The best
   separations were obtained using porous chromatography media made with
   the highest agarose concentration. Selective elution of plasmid 109 DNA
   with different forms was obtained by either increasing the flow rates
   or decreasing the electric field strength (by steps or a gradient). In
   all the separations, the more compact supercoiled form of the plasmid
   was retained less strongly than either the open circular form (nicked)
   or the linear form, and high molecular weight host genomic DNA was more
   strongly retained. Increasing the ionic strength of the buffer improved
   resolution and capacity. The capacity of the separation was determined
   by injecting increasing amounts of plasmid DNA. The retention of DNA
   depends upon a counter current flow of electrophoresis and convective
   flow and could be regarded as a type of field flow fractionation.
   Another approach is gel electrophoresis with reversible media. Gel
   electrophoresis is another high-resolution technique that is not widely
   used as a preparative tool because of the difficulty of getting DNA or
   proteins out of the gel when the separation is achieved. Investigations
   of gel-forming polymers that change to solutions when the chemical
   environment is changed are also underway. Current Model of DNA helix
   with gellan work is focused on investigating and controlling the
   structure molecules of gels to influence the trapping of circular DNA.
   Biocatalytic Systems W.M. Byrnes, D.T. Gallagher, M.J. Holden, M.P.
   Mayhew, V.L. Vilker,(831) A.E. Roitberg, (GeoCenters, Inc.), and B.
   Coxon (NICHHD/NIH) A new effort has been undertaken to work with the
   Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) of the
   U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Institute for Reference
   Materials and Measurements (IRMM) of the European Commission Joint
   Research Center to develop measurement methods and reference materials
   for identifying biotech grains. Researchers in CSTL's Biotechnology
   Division are working with IRMM scientists to identify and inhibit or
   eliminate factors affecting DNA degradation, to select non-biotech
   housekeeping genes for quantitative comparison with event DNA, and to
   establish the purity of lines used for reference materials. 110 A
   Computer Program to Determine the Effects of Single Nucleotide
   Polymorphisms (SNPs) and Mutations in Human Mitochondrial DNA B.C.
   Levin and M.S. Lee (831) The program, MitoAnalyzer, compares any
   changes found during sequencing human mtDNA with the sequence and
   numbering system published by Anderson et al. in 1981. The user inserts
   the number of the nucleotide change and the new nucleotide (i.e., A, C,
   G, or T). The program was written in C++ and Java. MitoAnalyzer
   provides the researcher useful information about the particular
   polymorphism or mutation. The program identifies where the change
   occurs, such as in rRNA, tRNA, or one of the 13 proteins coded by human
   mtDNA. The program specifies whether the area of interest is in the
   coding region, and if so, whether it affects the first, second or third
   base pair of a codon. If the change is in a protein, the amino acid
   change, the nature of the amino acid change, and the position of the
   change in the resultant protein is provided, along with the new amino
   acid sequence of the entire protein. Finally, association of the
   mutation with a disease in the scientific literature is provided. The
   program is intended to facilitate rapid analysis and evaluation of
   polymorphisms and mutations in human mtDNA and their possible
   pathogenicity. Intergenerational Transmission of a Human Mitochondrial
   DNA Heteroplasmy Among Thirteen Maternally-Related Individuals K.
   Sekiguchi, K. Kasai (National Research Institute of Police Science,
   Japan) and B.C. Levin (831) Mitochondria are maternally inherited,
   though it is not known The observation that the how individual
   mitochondria are passed between transmission of a mtDNA generations.
   The presence of one of the heteroplasmic base heteroplasmy from one
   pairs (different base pairs at the same mtDNA site) in one individual
   to her offspring is tissue sample and the other heteroplasmic base pair
   in the likely to differ among the first second sample can result in a
   forensic scientist calling it an generation offspring and exclusion
   rather than a match. At this time, it is not clear between that
   generation and whether these heteroplasmies exist in the mtDNA in
   subsequent generations lends individual mitochondria, in different
   mitochondria in the further credence to the bottleneck theory of
   inheritance same cell, or in mitochondria from different cells within
   the of mtDNA. same tissue. The transmission of a cytosine:thymine (C:T)
   heteroplasmy found at position 16291 in the HV1 region of the human
   mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region in thirteen maternallyrelated
   individuals across three generations and among the tissues in two of
   those individuals was studied. One disadvantage of using mtDNA for
   human identification is the possibility that a heteroplasmy may exist.
   This heteroplasmy was examined in buccal cells from thirteen maternally
   related family members across three generations and in additional
   tissues from two members, a mother and son, of this family. Sequencing
   was performed with the ABI PRISMTM 310 Genetic Analyzer using the
   BigDyeTerminator and BigDyePrimer sequencing kits. The ratio of C to T
   at position 16291 showed wide intra- and intergenerational variation.
   The variation was also observed within tissues from single individuals.
   These studies indicate that the proportion of the two components of a
   heteroplasmy can vary widely among maternally-related family members
   and among tissues within a single individual. Thus, a single base pair
   difference should not be used as the sole determinant that two samples
   are from different individuals or families. Such a discrepancy may be
   resolved by the detection of the heteroplasmy through the examination
   of additional tissues from the individual or other maternally-related
   family members. 111 A Patient with Chronic Progressive External
   Opthalmopegia Reexamined Thirty Years Later B.C. Levin, L.A. Tully,
   J.T. Chen (831), K. Sekiguchi (National Research Institute of Police
   Science, Japan), and A. Gropman (National Human Genome Research
   Institute) In 1972, seven cases of Idiopathic Progressive External
   Ophthalmoplegia with ragged-red fiber myopathy were described [Olson,
   W. et al., Arch. Neurol. 26:193-211(1972)]. At 14 years of age, Case 5
   developed right-sided ptosis and paresis of eye movements
   (ophthalmoplegia). When examined at NIH at age 17, he showed moderate
   bilateral ptosis and severe restriction of all eye movements. Muscle
   strength as well as general health and height were said to be normal. A
   muscle biopsy revealed ragged-red fibers with gomori trichrome staining
   and abnormal mitochondria in clusters. Since other members of his
   family were normal, the conclusion in 1972 was that the disease must be
   acquired or, if genetic, must be inherited as an autosomal recessive
   trait. In 1999, following the development of human mtDNA Standard
   Reference Material 2392 for sequencing, mitochondrial disease
   diagnosis, and mutation detection at NIST, we were given the
   opportunity to examine the mtDNA from Case 5, who had been diagnosed
   with Chronic Progressive External Ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) but whose
   mtDNA had never been Example of gomori trichrome analyzed. We also
   sequenced the entire mtDNA of his mother stain of muscle tissue that
   and brother. In addition, he was re-examined clinically at NIH shows
   marked mitochondrial proliferation and found to be cachectic with
   severe muscle wasting and proximal weakness. He had moderate dysphagia,
   complete ophthalmoplegia and ptosis, which are symptoms consistent with
   a progressive mitochondrial myopathy. The sequence of the entire mtDNA
   from the blood of Case 5 (now age 50), as well as that of his
   unaffected brother (age 53) and mother (age 79) were found to be
   identical. Although differing at several positions from the sequence
   published by Anderson et al. in 1981, these differences did not
   correlate with any published mutations associated with mitochondrial
   disorders. The DNA samples were then analyzed for the "common
   deletion", associated with CPEO, Kearns Sayre Syndrome, and Pearson's
   Marrow Syndrome, and also been found to accumulate during aging in
   normal (i.e., unaffected) individuals. Initial analysis using primer
   pair F8164/R13611 in a two round PCR assay revealed the presence of the
   4977 bp deletion in Case 5, but not in his mother or brother. Sequence
   analysis confirmed the presence of this deletion in Case 5. Subsequent
   analyses using deletion-specific PCR primers (provided by Dr. Steven
   Zullo, NIH) corroborated these findings, and again demonstrated
   Advances in the field of that the 4977 deletion was present at
   detectable levels mitochondrial genetics exclusively in Case 5. The
   presence of the 4977 deletion at provided the tools that made low
   levels in the blood of Case 5, and not in the blood of his this
   molecular confirmation of mother and brother, indicates that CPEO is
   the most likely the CPEO diagnosis possible. explanation for his
   symptoms. 112
