http://trans.nih.gov/courses/courses.htm

   CAPTION:

   [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif]
   [courses_r1_c1.gif] [shim.gif]
   Introduction [courses_r2_c2.gif] [shim.gif]
   BMAP Resources [shim.gif]
   Courses and Meetings [shim.gif]
   Reports and Publications
   1. Brain Molecular Anatomy Project (BMAP) Planning Workshop

                              March 30-31, 1998
                              Doubletree Hotel
                             Rockville, Maryland

   Organizers: Judy Small, Ph.D. and Steven Moldin, Ph.D.
   Co-Chairs: Greg Lemke, Ph.D. and Stanley Watson, Ph.D., M.D.

                                 Objectives

   NINDS and NIMH sponsored this workshop to help develop a blueprint for
   the Brain Molecular Anatomy Project (BMAP).  The workshop was organized
   by an NIH committee chaired by Drs. Small and Moldin.

   The following were established as important directions for future
   research:
     * Better characterize existing cDNA libraries with significant
       representation of genes from the nervous system. This will include
       further sequencing of existing EST clones to cover 5 and 3 ends.
       Deeper sequencing into higher quality libraries may result in
       further gene discovery.

     * Localize genes to specific regions or cell types of the nervous
       system. Conduct low resolution mapping by hybridizing
       region-specific libraries with microarray technologies. High
       resolution mapping will follow the development of high sensitivity,
       region- or cell-specific fluorescent multiprobe in situ
       hybridization technologies, along with other single cell
       approaches.

     * Construct normalized full-length cDNA libraries for specific brain
       regions or cell types in the nervous system. Use of full-length
       clones will facilitate gene discovery and can be used for gene
       expression and functional studies.

     * Large-scale gene expression analysis in specific brain regions or
       cell types is beyond current technologies, and new tools and
       technologies are required (e.g., new methods to micro-dissect
       specific brain regions, bioinformatics tools for retrieving data,
       3D digital mouse brain atlas).

     * Create public repositories for the wide distribution of data and
       biomaterials.

     * Focus initial efforts to develop as a blueprint the molecular
       anatomy of the mouse brain. Develop strategies to extend this work
       and study human neural tissue under various conditions (e.g.,
       different disease states, exposure to pharmacologic agents,
       developmental alterations).

   2.  Mouse Atlas Workshop

                               July 14th, 1998
                 Embassy Suites Hotel, Chevy Chase, Marylad.

   The goal of this workshop was to obtain a better conceptualization of
   how NIH should proceed to initiate a database that will be most useful
   to neuroscientists who are interested in the brain patterns of gene
   expression. The Mouse Atlas Workshop participants addressed  the issues
   involved in constructing a mouse brain atlas and the development of a
   database for the BMAP project.

   The workshop recommendations are as follows:

   1) The datasets should be volume-based and derived from high-resolution
   video imaged sectioning and staining of brain material, perhaps
   preceded by whole brain MRI.

   2) Datasets from many individuals of different mouse strains should be
   used in constructing the atlas. The initial resolution of data should
   aim for the 10 micron range.

   3) The anatomical nomenclature should cite current systems, but have
   the capability to incorporate new consensus terms and information about
   brain structure arising from the project.  Stereotaxic and
   surface-based coordinates should be an integral part of the atlas.

   4) Attention should be given to providing training in brain mapping,
   neuroanatomy and in situ studies.

   5) Creating datasets for cataloging gene expression data during
   development should be given a high priority.

   6) The atlas/database should be web-based, interactive, and capable of
   graphic three-dimensional output.  Information should include anatomic
   and cellular structure and function, gene expression patterns,
   connectivity, temporal information, and relevant Internet links.  The
   database should have the capacity to incorporate new types of
   information and queries arising in the future.

   7) Neuroscience experts and information science experts should be
   closely associated during the development of the atlas/database.

   The participants are:

   Richard A. Baldock, Ph.D., Western General Hospital Edinburgh
   Floyd E. Bloom, M.D. ,The Scripps Research Institute
   Nick R. Bryan, M.D., Ph.D., NIH
   Mark H. Ellisman, Ph.D. ,UCSD School of Medicine
   John G. Flanagan, Ph.D., Harvard Medical School Richard A. Baldock,
   Ph.D.
   Karl Herrup, Ph.D. ,Case Western Reserve School of Medicine
   Russel E. Jacobs, Ph.D. ,California Institute of Technology
   Christiana M. Leonard, Ph.D., University of Florida Hlth. Sci. Center
   Randall R. Reed, Ph.D., HHMI, Johns Hopkins University
   Richard L. Sidman, M.D. New England Regional Primate Res. Ctr.
   Larry W. Swanson, Ph.D.University of Southern California
   Arthur W. Toga, Ph.D., UCLA
   David C. Van Essen, Ph.D., Washington Univ. School. Of Medicine
   Thomas A. Woolsey, M.D., Washington Univ. School. Of Medicine
   Warren G. Young, Ph.D.,Scripps Clinic & Research Foundation

   3.  Databases for a Molecular Anatomy Brain Atlas

                            August 28 - 29, 2000
                      Conference Room D, Natcher Center
                       NIH Campus, Bethesda, Maryland

   The purpose of this meeting was to bring together a small group of
   participants with a blend of scientific and technical expertise to
   begin to consider issues regarding the development of a database for
   gene expression data. Specifically, the focus was on a database that
   could articulate with the mouse digital brain atlas currently supported
   under the auspices of the Brain Molecular Anatomy Project (BMAP). This
   one and one-half day meeting started with brief presentations, but
   mostly comprised discussions directed at the use, capabilities, and
   construction of databases for gene expression in the brain.

   This blend of knowledge allowed discussions to address issues that
   included: query construction approaches, data models and
   representations, database schema and architecture, central versus
   distributed approaches, quality control, types of data and queries that
   would most benefit the gene expression research community,
   data-handling capabilities needed by that community now and five years
   hence, and the nature of and comparison among the scientific cultures
   of a variety of research communities as they relate to the use of
   databases.

   The meeting produced several important insights that would be useful in
   steering and constraining the path of database development. If
   development of a gene expression database is to be pursued, then
   additional workshops and like activities should be held.

   Detailed description of the workshop can be found at:
   http://www.nimh.nih.gov/research/brainatlas.cfm





   [shim.gif]
   Funding Opportunities [shim.gif]
   Major contacts [shim.gif]
   [courses_r8_c1.gif] [shim.gif]
