http://www.nipc.gov/publications/nipcpub/penpals.html


          [Nipclogo.jpg] National Infrastructure Protection Center


                                        Trust But Verify:
                             A Guide to Using E-mail Correspondence

                                December 2001


       The White House recently announced that the Friendship Through
   Education organization (www.friendshipthrougheducation.org) established
    an e-mail pen pal program with school children in the United States,
       Bahrain, Pakistan, and Egypt. The goal is to promote peace and
     understanding between the citizens of the United States and Islamic
     nations. In support of this initiative the National Infrastructure
       Protection Center (NIPC) is providing some recommended security
       practices so that U.S. school children may participate safely,
    protecting the computer systems they use at home, school, or library.
     The program has excellent potential to build a peace bridge between
      cultures. Our recommendations are designed to assist teachers and
    parents to guide the participating students to practice good computer
           security habits, not only for this program, but always.

       "Trust but verify" is a slogan that is appropriate for securing
     computers from malicious code passed as an e-mail attachment. It is
   very difficult to know exactly who is on the other end of an e-mail or
   chat session, as passwords do get lost and stolen. Most computer users
     know that they should beware of opening e-mail from strangers. But
   countless viruses have continued to spread and re-spread, because they
        were sent via e-mail from someone who appeared to be trusted.
   Individual computer users can drastically reduce the spread of viruses
     and other malicious computer code with a few simple steps including
       verifying the authenticity of an attachment before opening it.

      Developers of computer viruses have been successful using social
    engineering to victimize the typical computer user. We have witnessed
   many viruses spread by e-mail attachments, masked by subject lines that
                are designed to be enticing to the recipient.

  The computer virus developer’s goal is to manipulate authorized trusted
   users to unwittingly circumvent computer defenses and allow a malicious
      code infection. Even users who exercise disciplined adherence to
     security policies have been lured to open attachments titled "Anna
     Kournikova," "I Love You," and recently "Peace between America and
       Islam" which exploited human emotion about the violent acts of
                             September 11, 2001.

        We may have difficulty understanding the motivations of virus
     developers, but we must recognize that it is consistent with their
      methodology to exploit curiosity. We should expect to see viruses
   designed to proliferate by association with popular themes or ideas. As
     headlines develop regarding news events or issues popular with the
    audience, expect to see those used as e-mail subject lines to mask a
                            malicious attachment.

      NIPC and computer industry partners publish advisories to educate
    computer users of best security practices. Many of these publications
   recommend consideration of the following steps to reduce the chance of
                         computer virus infections:

    1. Close the preview pane of your e-mail program. The preview pane is
       the feature that shows you the contents of an e-mail before you
       choose to open it. It is often displayed below the pane that
       displays a list of e-mails, their titles and time of receipt or
       transmission.

    2. Disable the Java script and Active-X features of your web browser.
       Java and Active-X were designed to run more advanced features and
       to use services or make changes on the computer you are using.
       Unless these features are explicitly required, it is safer to
       deactivate them to prevent malicious scripts from infecting or
       compromising the computer or the network.
    3. Equip your computer with an anti-virus program, maintain the most
       current version, and select the user options that give you the most
       protection. There are several different types, not just different
       brands. Some anti-virus programs search for specific file
       "signatures," others monitor a computer program’s activity and
       prohibit virus-like behavior. There are also cost-free scans from
       vendors via the Internet that can scan your hard drive and
       removable disks. Ensure that your anti-virus program will screen
       attached files.
    4. Save attachments to a disk before opening. Do not open the
       attachment directly from the e-mail program. Save it to a disk,
       preferably a removable disk, and then scan the disk with an
       anti-virus program.
    5. Do not open e-mail attachments from strangers, regardless of how
       enticing the subject line may be. In addition to e-mails containing
       damaging computer viruses, there has been malicious spam. The spam
       plays off human curiosity. It may be an e-mail message or a
       redirection to another web page. The action is often to solicit
       donations to organizations claiming to be charities, or barraging
       computers with pop-up advertising.
    6. Be suspicious of any unexpected e-mail attachments from someone you
       do know. It may have been sent without that person’s knowledge from
       an infected machine. The Sircam virus continues to spread by
       automatically e-mailing itself between users who expect to
       communicate. Also, someone might have stolen a trusted person’s
       password and is pretending to be that trusted person.
    7. Verify suspicious e-mail. In the event you receive e-mail from
       someone you know, that has a suspicious title or attachment,
       contact the sender or the program coordinator by telephone or send
       them a new e-mail asking them to verify that they did intend to
       send you that e-mail.
