http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/initiatives/Breast_cancer_faculty.asp

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   Featured Initiatives


   Molecular Targets
   Cancer Prevention Models
   Breast Cancer Initiatives
   Microarray Group Technology
   Proteomics
   Imaging
   Molecular Pathology
   Genomic Analysis
   Office of Mice Advice
   Animal Models
   Breast Cancer Initiatives
   The Breast Cancer Faculty sponsors the following initiatives:

   A tissue repository for normal mouse mammary glands available to the
   NIH mammary gland biology community for preparing DNA, RNA, or protein
   from samples at 43 stages of development.

   Preparation of a tissue array of mouse mammary tumors from models for
   breast cancer and normal mouse mammary glands from 17 stages of
   development. This array will complement the cDNA micro arrays developed
   by the Mouse Models of Mammary Cancer Collective. In addition, the
   Faculty supports a postdoctoral fellow who is responsible for providing
   support to members of the faculty who use microarrays.

   A normal human breast development initiative. We are using laser
   capture microdissection (LCM) of tissue samples obtained from the
   breasts of normal women at different levels of risk for breast cancer.
   The individual components of the breast (epithelium and stroma) as well
   as the different subclasses of lobules are being examined by cDNA
   microarray, proteomics, and tissue array to obtain a gene expression
   profile for the normal breast. Multiple investigators utilizing their
   individual areas of expertise are conducting this project. We are
   collaborating with pathologists and molecular biologists nationally to
   move this project forward.

   A monthly seminar by and for the postdoctoral fellows in which they
   give a formal presentation of their project, answer questions on the
   science as with any seminar. Then the presenters are critically
   evaluated (by anonymous written critiques from the audience) and
   coached on their presentations. We consider these seminars as much a
   teaching tool on how to give seminars as it is a means of disseminating
   information.

   A grant-writing workshop for the mammary gland biology community that
   deals with intramural grants and extramural grants from a variety of
   agencies (NIH, DOD, American Cancer Society, USDA). Mammary gland
   biologists from local universities who have successfully obtained
   grants from these sources are brought in to give practical tips on how
   to do it.

   Workshops (usually half-day sessions). In the past, we have sponsored
   workshops on the comparative pathology of mouse and human breast
   tumors, emerging tissue and microarray technology as applied to the
   mammary glands, a practical approach to analysis of cDNA microarrays,
   and xenograft models of mammary cancer research. This year we will
   sponsor at least two more workshops; the topics being considered are
   tumor angiogenesis, molecular targets in the breast, and/or improving
   clinical trial design.

   Monthly roundtable discussions by focus groups consisting of
   clinicians, translational, and basic researchers who will critically
   evaluate a single topic in the early stages of clinical trial design.

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
