http://flagstaff.az.gov/planning/report/index.htm




   [nav_plan_chome.gif]
         City Home

                       Table of
                       Contents

                               Maps

                                   Schedule

                                              1999
                                           Draft Plan

                                                     [nav_plan_phome.gif]
                                                         Planning Home


   [h_reporthome.gif]

   The following is a follow-up, in the form of a report, to the Flagstaff
   Regional Land Use and Transportation Plan that was presented for the
   public's review and comments in November 1999. Since that time,
   numerous public hearings, meetings, and open houses have been held to
   provide as much information to and as many opportunities as possible
   for interaction between staff and the public.

   The Regional Plan is a joint undertaking by the City of Flagstaff and
   Coconino County addressing the long-term issues involved with our
   communities' growth and development. The Regional Plan is a
   comprehensive document which provides goals, policies, and strategies
   to provide guidance in determining where development will occur and
   areas that are to be protected as open spaces. The numerous systems,
   such as transportation, water, wastewater, stormwater, parks and
   others, needed to support development are anticipated and mapped and
   are included in the Regional Plan. It is a plan that will be used by
   both the City and County for a 525-square-mile area.

   The response and public input received lead to the preparation of the
   Report. The Report is comprised of the comments and requests for
   additions, amendments, or deletions to the various policies and
   strategies that are contained within the draft Regional Plan, which may
   also be accessed via the website. Also contained in the Report are
   staff's responses to the requests and comments, along with its
   recommendations to the Planning & Zoning Commissions on any changes to
   the draft Plan policies and strategies.

   The recommendations will be considered by the City of Flagstaff's and
   the County's Planning and Zoning Commissions for their discussion prior
   to submission of the Regional Land Use and Transportation Plan to the
   City Council and County Board of Supervisors. It is expected that the
   Council and Board will then consider the Regional Plan for approval and
   take action by resolution later this summer.

   A schedule of work sessions by the Planning and Zoning Commissions is
   available by using the link above. The public is invited to attend any
   or all of these work sessions, each of which is devoted to discussion
   of various elements of the Regional Plan. Please continue to check the
   website for updates on meeting dates.

   The contact person for the City is Ursula Montaño, Planning Division,
   211 West Aspen Avenue, Flagstaff AZ 86001; 520/667-7685 ex. 255;
   e-mail: umontano@ci.flagstaff.az.us.

   The County's contact person is Bill Towler, Community Development
   Department, 2500 North Fort Valley Road Bldg #1, Flagstaff, AZ 86001;
   520/226-2700; e-mail:btowler@co.coconino.az.us.

   The Regional Plan Report may also be accessed via the County's website:
   co.coconino.az.us

     City Home l Table of Contents l Schedule l Maps l 1999 Draft Plan l
                         2001 Report | Planning Home
