http://www.hhs.gov/newfreedom/presidentrpt.html

   HHS logo DOJ seal ED seal DOL seal HUD seal SSA seal DOT seal VA seal
   SBA logo OPM seal U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

                              New Freedom logo
       Initiative ~ Executive Order ~ HHS Role ~ Additional Resources

                         Delivering on the Promise:
               Preliminary Report of Federal Agencies' Actions
           to Eliminate Barriers and Promote Community Integration

   December 21, 2001

   The President
   White House
   Washington, D.C. 20500

   Dear Mr. President:

   As one of your first acts in office this year, you unveiled your New
   Freedom Initiative to carry out your commitment to tear down remaining
   barriers to equality for the 54 million Americans with disabilities.
   You acted upon this commitment with Executive Order 13217:
   Community-Based Alternatives for Individuals with Disabilities, asking
   federal agencies to work together to identify and address barriers to
   community integration. And so, before the year's end, I am submitting
   to you this status report of our efforts to meet your charge, entitled
   Delivering on the Promise: Preliminary Report of Federal Agencies'
   Actions to Eliminate Barriers and Promote Community Integration.
   [complete report = 154K, DOC = 535K]

   Your Executive Order provided federal agencies with an opportunity to
   respond to and build upon your New Freedom Initiative. During the past
   year, through comprehensive self evaluations and extensive public
   input, a number of agencies identified barriers in their policies,
   programs, regulations, and statutes to community integration and
   developed priorities and action steps to address these barriers. You
   initially named the Departments of Justice, Health and Human Services,
   Education, Labor, Housing and Urban Development, and the Social
   Security Administration to carry out this vision. Four additional
   agencies, the Department of Transportation, Veterans Affairs, the Small
   Business Administration, and the Office of Personnel Management, joined
   the implementation effort on a voluntary basis. Other agencies,
   including the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the National
   Council on Disability, share responsibility for activities that your
   Order addresses and also have offered to help implement it and achieve
   its goals.

   This report sets forth a summary of the actions that federal agencies
   propose to take in the following key areas: health care structure and
   financing; housing; personal assistance, direct care services and
   community workers; caregiver and family support; transportation;
   employment; education; access to technology; accountability and legal
   compliance; public awareness, outreach, and partnerships; income
   supports; gathering, assessment and use of data; and cross-agency
   collaboration and coordination.

   The federal response to the tragic events of September 11, 2001,
   brought a new sensitivity to the meaning and importance of freedom. It
   also brought a heightened appreciation of coordination and
   collaboration among federal agencies, and their state and local
   counterparts and stakeholders and the power of such combined efforts.
   This report was drafted in this spirt. It is based on two premises.
   First, through collaboration, more can be achieved. Second, through
   demonstrations and continued efforts, positive effects can be
   illustrated and then replicated to give persons with disabilities the
   freedom to live as independently as possible.

   The vision for change embodied in your New Freedom Initiative and
   Executive Order is a broad one. Individuals with disabilities will have
   access to health care that recognizes and provides supports and
   services that promote independence and productivity. Individuals with
   disabilities will have a place to live in their community among family
   and friends. Individuals with disabilities will have jobs, accessible
   transportation, and enhanced, accessible technology. Individuals with
   disabilities will benefit from education along with peers without
   disabilities. The priorities and actions outlined in this report will
   move our Nation in the direction of this vision. They also will
   strengthen and sustain families and expand opportunities for
   individuals to participate in the full range of community life.

   In the near future, we will present you with the individual reports of
   the agencies involved in carrying out your Executive Order. Together
   with this Preliminary Report, they represent the initial steps that we
   believe are necessary to enhanced community integration. But these are
   just the first steps. We look forward to continued collaboration with
   federal, state, and local governments, together with people with
   disabilities, their families, and service providers, to develop
   additional recommendations to fulfill our charge and the promise of
   full community integration for all Americans with disabilities.

   Sincerely,
         /s/
   Tommy G. Thompson
   Enclosure

                                 Dedication


                                photo of Colleen Fraser
                     Colleen Fraser
                     July 29, 1950 - September 11, 2001

   Perhaps no one believed more strongly in the rights of all Americans
   with disabilities than Colleen Fraser. Colleen was a well-respected
   activist for community living. She served as Executive Director of the
   Progressive Center for Independent Living in Ewing, New Jersey, which
   is a nonprofit, consumer-controlled, community-based organization
   providing services and advocacy by and for people with all types of
   disabilities. Colleen was a member of the heroic group of passengers on
   board the highjacked flight in rural Pennsylvania on September 11. Less
   than one week earlier, on September 5, 2001, Colleen traveled to
   Washington, D.C., to attend and give testimony at the National
   Listening Session on the New Freedom Initiative and Executive Order
   13217. We deliver this report in tribute to Colleen's work and
   dedication to guaranteeing the freedom for all Americans to choose
   community living.

     HHS Home | Topics | A-Z | What's New | For Kids | FAQs | Site Info
      Disclaimers | Privacy Notice | FOIA | Accessibility | Contact Us

   Last revised: January 2, 2002
