http://artists.arc.nasa.gov/About.html

   About JI
     [USEMAP:sidebar1.gif]

      As a member of the NASA research community, you can have far-reaching
      influence. The results of your work contribute to the vitality of our
      planet and the explorations beyond. The Documentation Development
      Division (Code JI) can help you make a difference and contribute to the
      knowledge of the future.

      The NASA Ames Research Center Documentation Development Division (JI)
      is staffed by professional Information Specialists. These professionals
      acquire, produce, and distribute Scientific and Technical Information
      (STI) using traditional and advanced technologies. Information
      Specialists know where aerospace information is stored, worldwide, and
      how to get it. They also know how to transform your research data into
      meaningful STI documents, in the formats that best communicate your
      work to your audience. JI's Information Specialists can provide
      information you need to do your job better and can help you tell the
      world why your work is important.

      [future.gif]

   The Beginning of Your Future

      Aeronautic and space science achievements are based on the
      accomplishments of scientists and engineers who have preceded you. The
      work you do today becomes the legacy that will establish the basis for
      future opportunities to advance aerospace knowledge.

      STI is the foundation of NASA's research programs and the agency's
      primary product. STI stimulates research and research produces
      information: the two exist as interlocking cycles, joined in a
      symbiotic relationship. Their well-being affects your future as a NASA
      scientist or engineer.

      At Ames Research Center, Code JI supports the STI Cycle. Within CODE
      JI, the Research Information Resources Branch collects, stores, and
      disseminates STI; whereas, depending on the requirements, the
      Documentation Technology Branch (Graphics and Exhibits, Digital
      Imaging, Photography, Publications, Video, and Web Services), and the
      Reproduction Technology Branch process and help create new STI.

   Your Research is Important

      Aerospace scientists and engineers devote more time to communicating
      STI than to any other activity. If you expect to contribute to the body
      of aerospace knowledge, your message must be successfully presented to
      appropriate audiences. By drawing upon the expertise of Code JI's
      Information Specialists, you enhance your ability to tell others what
      you have accomplished. With Code JI addressing your information
      requirements, you are better able to focus on what is most important ?
      your research.

   Tomorrow Begins Today

      The National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 charters the agency to
      provide for the widest appropriate dissemination of the results of NASA
      research and development. NASA is also required to preserve America's
      role as a leader in aeronautics and space science by acquiring
      worldwide scientific and technical information and disseminating it
      within the United States. Thus, NASA's STI is critical to our nation's
      competitive world position and contributes to maintaining leadership in
      aerospace science.

      The Agency's charter created the STI imperative and infrastructure.
      Code JI is Ames' key resource for the acquisition, production and
      dissemination of STI. You, as contributor and beneficiary, are the
      focus of NASA's STI. The aerospace achievements of tomorrow depend upon
      your collaboration with Code JI's Information Specialists today.

   The Documentation Development Division's Vision Statement

      The Documentation Development Division (Code JI) will serve as Ames'
      key resource for the acquisition, production and dissemination of
      scientific and technical information.

      In active partnership with the research and development community, Code
      JI will be recognized for its expertise and leadership in the
      professional management of information. [blank.gif]



   [black_dot.gif]

Responsible NASA Official: Karen "Dani" Thompson
Email: JIChief@artists.arc.nasa.gov                  Site Curator: JIT Webmaster
                                                Email: jitweb@mail.arc.nasa.gov


   For more information about Code JI services, please call or stop by:

   NASA Ames Research Center
   Documentation Development Division Customer Services
   Building N-241, Room 101A
   Mail Stop 241-14
   Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000
   [blank.gif]
   [blank.gif] Hours:          8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
   [blank.gif] Phone:                   650.604.5018
   [blank.gif] Email:   eschilling@mail.arc.nasa.gov
   [blank.gif]
   Sitemap | Projects | Directory | Rates (PDF) | FAQ
