http://www.oklahoma.feb.gov/adr.html

                           Shared Neutrals Program

   The "Shared Neutrals" Program was developed in response to a goal of
   the Oklahoma Federal Executive Board to "reduce costs and improve
   efficiency" for its members.

   The "Shared Neutrals" Program is a project to provide mediation as an
   alternative to resolve disputes in the federal workplace. The shared
   resources of the Oklahoma federal community form this program comprised
   of forty-four mediators from thirteen federal agencies in five
   different geographic areas of the state. This is to ensure that
   mediators may be assigned to agencies (other than their own) to
   emphasize the mediator's neutrality. The vision is to resolve disputes
   at the earliest possible date to increase the quality of communication
   within the workforce, resulting in maintaining a productive work
   environment and reducing cost and time involved with formal processes.
   Federal employees in Oklahoma may request these services by completing
   a one-page form and submitting to the FEB Office.

   The beginning:
   Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) and the establishment of an ADR
   Consortium has been a topic of interest for the Oklahoma Federal
   Executive Board over several months. When FEB members were asked to
   estimate the number of employees interested in ADR training, the
   response was enthusiastic. Accordingly, in developing the FEB's
   Strategic Plan, the ADR Consortium was identified as a specific
   strategy to accomplish one of the Plan's objectives, that of organizing
   special initiatives to reduce costs and maximize savings.
   In order to benefit from the experience of an established consortium,
   the Oklahoma FEB Director contacted the Chair of the Dallas/Ft. Worth
   ADR Consortium to obtain advise, "lessons learned", and suggestions on
   how to best begin. The Chair of the DFW FEB's consortium, provided
   information, advise, and suggestions on how best to begin. After
   several conversations between Oklahoma City and Dallas, a meeting was
   to determine feasibility and resources available that may assist in
   training.
   A monthly FEB luncheon meeting was scheduled, dedicated to the topic of
   Alternative Dispute Resolution, to discuss the tangible and intangible
   benefits of utilizing ADR in the workplace, selling the idea to members
   in attendance. Separate meetings were scheduled with a few large
   federal employers in the area to enlist support.
   The FEB Director located training resources within the Oklahoma State
   Supreme Court which were available based upon each trainee providing 10
   hours of mediation service for the Court over the next twelve months.
   Meetings were scheduled for all the planning participants to discuss
   the most efficient method to leverage the available resources. A
   Leadership Associate began coordinating the training and identifying
   facilities.
   Due to the interest and number of responses, the one-week training was
   conducted twice to provide maximum participation and reduced
   instructor-student ratio. Only 30 applications per session were
   accepted (on a first-come, first-serve basis); however, every effort
   was made to ensure slots were distributed equitably among participating
   agencies. Union representatives and Labor Relations Specialists were
   encouraged to participate in the training on an "evaluation" basis to
   determine the value of the process and familiarize themselves with what
   would be made available for federal employees (including all of their
   members) in the Oklahoma area.
   Federal agencies were asked to select individuals to serve as
   mediators, providing their services as a collateral duty, on an
   as-needed basis. The employees were trained through the partnership
   with the Oklahoma State Supreme Court, utilizing a modified version of
   their mediation curriculum which has also been bolstered by EEO
   training provided by an Administrative Judge, EEOC, as well as advanced
   mediation training provided through the auspices of the VA Medical
   Center. In identifying individuals to attend the training, agencies
   were asked to ensure they identified employees who:
   1. Possess strong receptive and expressive skills; are good
   communicators.
   2. Are able to suspend advice-giving.
   3. Availability: must be willing and able to commit to the program for
   one year, including 10 hours per year to work with the Oklahoma Supreme
   Court.
   4. Have a tolerance for conflict.
   5. Demonstrate confidence; possess leadership qualities.
   The employee identified for training (and their supervisor) were asked
   to sign an agreement of support to participate in the program for one
   year to receive the training at minimal cost. Thirty-two hours of
   class-room instruction was provided through this partnership to provide
   a total savings of $75,754 in training costs, alone.
   The last training session was conducted in March 1998. Mediators were
   prepared and began with mediation assignments from EEOC Administrative
   Judges in April 1998.
   Mediation can be utilized at any point, voluntarily, or as a result of
   arriving at the administrative hearing in the formal stage of an EEO
   complaint. Dallas District EEOC Administrative Judges are requiring
   mediation using the Shared Neutrals Program cadre of mediators.
   Mediation is provided as an informal method of resolving disputes with
   a fellow employee, manager or colleague. In mediation, a neutral person
   (a Mediator) helps two or more persons explore ways to resolve their
   differences and reach an agreement to best address their mutual
   interests. All parties must be willing to resolve the problem for this
   process to be successful. Mediation, unlike arbitration or court
   proceedings, has no focus on "placing blame" with the Mediator having
   no authority to force a decision on the parties involved. Those
   involved in the dispute decide what is important and make decisions
   based on those factors. A Mediator assists the parties in becoming
   "decision-makers" through establishing communication which leads to an
   understanding of each other and allows the individuals to create
   options and solutions to address their concerns. This process helps
   individuals involved in a dispute to communicate with each other;
   encourages the persons affected to create their own solutions and
   examine unique solutions to a problem instead of referring the problem
   to a judge, arbitrator or another outside decision-maker; thus
   maintaining control by the individuals involved; and helps the persons
   involved develop realistic and mutually satisfactory solutions.
   An employee's right to pursue court or administrative action are not
   affected by this process. If unresolved issues remain at the end of the
   mediation, the Mediator and the complainant will state these issues in
   writing during the final mediation session, and the complainant may
   continue processing them through the formal complaint/grievance
   process. Mediations ordered by EEOC Administrative Judges do not defer
   other processing of cases toward hearing dates.
   The Shared Neutrals Program accommodates involvement of the following
   participants:
   1. Any current or former federal employee or applicant for a federal
   employment opportunity in the State of Oklahoma who has a federal
   workplace dispute can participate in the Program
   2. Union: An authorized representative for the aggrieved person if: 1)
   the employee is covered by a union contract and 2) the dispute could
   result in a grievance.
   3. Management participant: The Agency representative who is authorized
   to negotiate and execute binding settlement agreements on behalf of the
   Department.
   4. Mediator: An impartial, neutral third party trained in conflict
   resolution techniques, who has been approved to participate in the
   Oklahoma FEB Shared Neutrals Program. When deemed beneficial, sessions
   may be conducted in which co-mediators (two) are assigned to facilitate
   the process.
   5. Attorneys: If an attorney represents a party, the attorney's role
   must be discussed with the Mediator prior to the mediation session. In
   EEOC ordered mediations, the parties' attorney may appear and
   participate.

   Evaluations to Ensure Ongoing Effectiveness:
   The Program is evaluated using three (3) different feedback mechanisms:
   1. Customer (User) Survey - This form is voluntarily completed by the
   users of the Program (employees, management reps., etc.) at the end of
   each session.
   2. Annual Federal Executive Board Member Survey - This is completed on
   an annual basis by the members of the FEB, rating the Program as
   meeting/not meeting their organization's needs.
   3. Mediator Survey - The person most intimately involved in the process
   completes this survey which provides their perspective on what works
   and what needs improvement at the conclusion of each session.

   Statistical Reporting to determine Cost Savings:

   * The Dallas EEOC Office is providing statistical information to the
   FEB regarding success rates and agencies served through EEOC ordered
   mediations.
   * The FEB Office is tracking the same statistical information regarding
   agency requested mediations, as well as receive the feedback forms to
   track effectiveness and customer satisfaction.
   The information will be compiled and shared among FEB members but will
   omit identifying information which would violate the Privacy Act. These
   instruments and statistical information will be combined to evaluate
   the ability of the Shared Neutrals Program to meet the needs of the
   federal community in Oklahoma. The input also allows for future
   improvements and modifications to the Shared Neutrals Program.

   Continuation:

   The FEB Director and EEOC-Dallas maintain frequent communication in an
   effort to ensure the program remains flexible and continues to meet the
   needs of the federal community in Oklahoma. As needs are identified,
   the program is quickly tailored to respond to unique, as well as
   routine, demands. This has been the commitment of the coordinators
   involved in order to showcase an ongoing, viable program which provides
   a needed service to federal employees and employers which results in:
   * a friendlier, more productive workforce and
   * saves money for the taxpayer.

   Results thus far:
   ==> Required mediation prior to EEOC Hearing has resulted in reducing
   the number of cases which actually go to hearing (due to settlement).
   ==> Feedback through the forms distributed for input from parties and
   agencies indicate 100% agree that the mediation helped (even in cases
   that did not result in a settlement).

   Agency Guidebook Shared Neutrals Request Form
   Back to top      Back to FEB Page
