http://spd.nasa.gov/matres.html

   Space Product Development              NASA Insignia
                             Space for Business to Grow


      Click here to skip menu
   Home
   What is SPD?
   Industry
   Research
   Commercial
   Space Centers
   News
   Events
   Success Stories
   -Agribusiness
   -Biotechnology
   -Materials R&D
   Contact Us
    Search
     _______________ go

Success Stories - Materials Research & Development

   Materials Research and Development works to improve existing materials,
   devices, and manufacturing processes while developing the materials,
   devices, and processes of tomorrow. Commercial space research has
   resulted in a number of significant successes, including:

   Brush Wellman Brush Wellman Incorporated successfully produced the
   worlds largest aluminum-beryllium casting with the assistance of
   ground-based casting data and computational models developed by the
   Solidification Design Center, a Commercial Space Center. This alloy is
   very lightweight, making it useful in a number of aerospace
   applications. This work is helping advance manufacturing technology
   relating to the material.

   Applied Optoelectronics Incorporated will help commercialize a mid
   infrared semiconductor laser that operates at room temperature. The
   Space Vacuum Epitaxy Center, a Commercial Space Center, optimized the
   design and fabrication of the laser, which can be used for several
   applications including environmental monitoring on Earth and in space
   exploration. Because of its small size and Infrared Semiconductor
   weight, it is also ideal for use on aircraft as a part of defenses
   against heat-seeking missiles.

   A special optical detector developed by the Space Vacuum Epitaxy
   Center, a Commercial Space Center, may offer the hope of sight to
   people with a variety of eye problems. The detector is designed to be
   implanted on the back wall of the eye to replace natural sensors
   damaged by disease or accident. It converts light into electrical
   signals in much the same way as rods and cones do in a healthy eye, and
   the impulses are then picked up by the optical nerve. Preliminary
   testing has been successful and efforts at commercial development are
   underway.

   Fiber Optics ZBLAN Fiber Optic cables, made of the elements Zirconium,
   Barium, Lanthanum, Aluminum, and Sodium, offer the potential to be more
   than 100 times more effective than traditional silica fibers. NASA
   investigations with commercial partners Lucent Technologies and
   Infrared Fibers, Inc., may lead to improved optical data transmission,
   medical surgery, fiberoptic lasers, optical power transmission, and
   fiberoptic gyroscopes.

   Engineers The Ford Motor Company has used materials data supplied by
   the Solidification Design Center, a Commercial Space Center, to design
   new, high quality sand molding processes for creating precision
   automotive parts. This type of work is also being done by the
   Solidification Design Center for ALCOA and Howmet Corporation to help
   them cast parts that are more reliable with lower costs.

   Metal Oxide Technologies Metal Oxide Technologies is commercializing a
   new technology for the fabrication of High-Temperature Superconducting
   (HTS) wires using oxide thin films, developed by the Space Vacuum
   Epitaxy Center, a Commercial Space Center. This technology has been
   licensed and a pilot plant for producing HTS wires for use in power
   line transformers is expected to be operational by 2001.

   International Space Station New solar cells developed by the Space
   Vacuum Epitaxy Center, a Commercial Space Center, are being developed
   by International Stellar Technologies, Inc., and the U.S. Air Force.
   These unique cells have an efficiency comparable to conventional Indium
   Phosphide solar cells, but are thinner, have significantly enhanced
   radiation resistance, and end-of-life efficiences that are 85 percent
   of the beginning-of-life. These improved cells could result in a more
   than 30 percent decrease in the size of existing solar arrays.

   Optical Components Optical components are considered an essential part
   of future advanced computers. Such systems will make possible the
   storage of massive amounts of data, transmission of data within the
   computer, and even the processing of the data. Non-Linear Optical (NLO)
   materials, being investigated through the Consortium for Materials
   Development in Space, a Commercial Space Center, may allow data
   switching speeds of one-trillionth of a second, up to a three-fold
   increase in optical storage capacity, and optical data processing at
   near the speed of light.

   On-Earth & In-Space

   [back to top]
