http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories/s684.htm


   NOAA News || NOAA Home Page

                NEWEST NOAA ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITE LAUNCHED:
     SATELLITE WILL DETECT HARMFUL SOLAR FLARES AND GATHER WEATHER DATA

   NOAA GOES-M satellite being launched July 23, 2001. July 23, 2001 — The
   nation's most advanced satellite to detect harmful solar flares and
   gather data on daily weather and severe storms in the United States was
   launched successfully, NOAA announced. (Click on NASA image for larger
   view. Click here for high resolution photo, which is a very large file.
   Photo: July 23, 2001) [Click here to view mpeg video of launch. You'll
   need RealPlayer or Media Player.]

   NOAA's Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite was launched
   aboard an Atlas rocket on July 23 from Cape Canaveral Air Force
   Station. The GOES-M satellite is the fifth of five advanced weather
   satellites operated by NOAA and designed to help improve forecasting of
   Earth's weather and space weather. GOES-M is the first to have a
   sophisticated operational instrument for detecting solar storms.

   "The GOES-M satellite is much more than our latest weather sentinel in
   the heavens," said Scott Gudes, acting administrator of NOAA. "It will
   give our space weather forecasters the tools to better detect the sun's
   solar storms and predict how these solar flares might impact power
   grids and electronic systems on Earth, thanks to a new instrument
   called a solar X-ray imager—the most advanced instrument of its kind."

   NOAA's GOES-M satellite arrives at Complex 36-A, Cape Canaveral Air
   Force Station. The solar X-ray imager will take a full and detailed
   snapshot of the sun's atmosphere each minute. The images will be used
   by NOAA and the U.S. Air Force to forecast the intensity and speed of
   solar disturbances that could destroy satellite electronics, disrupt
   long-distance radio communications or surge power grids. The imager
   enables forecasters to better protect billions of dollars worth of
   commercial and government assets in space and on the ground. (Click
   NASA image for larger view of NOAA's GOES-M satellite arriving at
   Complex 36-A, Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Click here for high
   resolution photo. Please note that this is a very large file. Photo:
   July 6, 2001)

   In addition to solar flare warnings, the GOES-M will become a workhouse
   satellite for NOAA. It will be stored on orbit until needed as a
   replacement for GOES-8 or -10, the current GOES satellites. The
   real-time weather data gathered by NOAA's GOES satellites, combined
   with data from the agency's Doppler radars on the ground and automated
   surface observing systems, greatly aids weather forecasters in
   providing better warnings of thunderstorms, winter storms, flash
   floods, hurricanes, and other severe weather. These warnings help to
   save lives, preserve property, and benefit commercial interests.

   It will take 17 days for the GOES-M to reach geostationary orbit, and
   will then be named GOES-12. It will then undergo a series of tests
   before completing its checkout phase in about three months. GOES
   satellites orbit the equatorial plane of the Earth at a speed matching
   the Earth's rotation. This allows them to hover continuously over one
   position on the surface. The geostationary orbit is usually reached at
   about 22,300 miles above the Earth, high enough to allow the satellites
   a full-disc view of the Earth.

   The United States operates two meteorological satellites in
   geostationary orbit over the equator, one over the East Coast and one
   over the West Coast. NOAA GOES-10, launched in 1997, is currently
   overlooking the West Coast out into the Pacific including Hawaii; it is
   located at 135 degrees west longitude. NOAA GOES-8, launched in April
   1994, is overlooking the East Coast out into the Atlantic Ocean and is
   positioned at 75 degrees west.

   NOAA's National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service
   operates the GOES series of satellites. After the satellites complete
   on-orbit checkout, NOAA assumes responsibility for command and control,
   data receipt, and product generation and distribution.

   NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center manages the design, development and
   launch of the spacecraft. NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida is
   responsible for government oversight of launch operations and the
   management of countdown activities. NOAA's Systems Acquisition Office
   provides programmatic and acquisition guidelines to both Goddard and
   Kennedy.

   GOES-M, built by Space Systems/Loral, a subsidiary of Loral Space and
   Communications Ltd., was launched on an Atlas IIA rocket, built by
   Lockheed Martin. The mission is being conducted by International Launch
   Services. The on-board meteorological instruments for GOES-M include an
   imager and a sounder manufactured by ITT under a subcontract to Space
   Systems/Loral.

   Relevant Web Sites
   NOAA's Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite
   NOAA's GOES Satellites — Latest USA weather images
   NOAA's Satellites Page
   NASA/KSC Photograph Archives: GOES-M
   Media Contact:
   Patricia Viets, NOAA Satellite Operations, (301) 457-5005
