http://www.usgcrp.gov/usgcrp/assessments.htm

   About

        Site Map

                New

                   Library

                          Events

                                Links


   USGCRP Home -> Assessments | Search
   US Global Change Research Program logo and link to home

                          Updated January 28, 2002

   Assessments
   Major National and International Studies




                             Ask Doctor Science
   Got a question? Visit Doctor Global Change, resident expert at the site
          of the Global Change Research Information Office (GCRIO).



   About Assessments of Global Environmental Issues

                            US Assessment Reports


                    Climate Change Impacts on the United States
   US National Assessment: The Potential Consequences of Climate Variability and
                                      Change

      Access to a large collection of material, including regional & sectoral
      reports, workshop proceedings, and the National Assessment's newsletter
      Acclimations.

   Preparing for an Uncertain Climate.  Report from the US Congress,
   Office of Technology Assessment, October 1993:
     * Vol. I
     * Vol. II

   The Potential Effects of Global Climate Change on the United States.
   Report from the US Environmental Protection Agency, December 1989.

                      International Assessment Reports

   Climate Change 2001, from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
   (IPCC):
     * The Scientific Basis
     * Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability
     * Mitigation

   Other International and National Assessments:
     * Assessment of Potential Effects and Adaptations for Climate Change
       in Europe.  Published in 2000.  Summary and conclusions of the
       report from the ACACIA (A Concerted Action Towards a Comprehensive
       Climate Impacts and Adaptations Assessment for the European Union)
       project. (link posted 30 Nov 2000)
     * The Canada Country Study: Climate Impacts and Adaptation.
       Published in 1997.
     * UK Climate Impacts Programme:
          + Sectoral Reports
          + Regional Assessments
     * Climate Change Impacts for Australia (PDF).  Brochure (dtd 2001)
       from Australia's Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial Research
       Organization (CSIRO).  See also CSIRO climate change projections
       for Australia (PDF)

   Ozone Depletion Assessments:
     * Environmental Effects of Ozone Depletion: Interim Summary, August
       2000.
     * Executive Summary, Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion: 1998.
       Includes section on section called "Frequently Asked Questions
       About Ozone."
     * Executive Summary, Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion: 1994.

                           Miscellaneous Web Sites
                           Focusing on Assessments

   Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)

   Impacts and Adaptation Resources.  Site maintained by US Environmental
   Protection Agency.  Includes:
     * General
     * Guidelines
     * Assessment Tools & Models

   Arctic Climate Impact Assessment.  "An international project organized
   under the auspices of the Arctic Council to evaluate and synthesize
   knowledge on climate variability, climate change, and increased
   ultraviolet radiation and their consequences." (posted 21 October 2001)

   Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO),
   CSIRO Climate Change Research Program.  See also CSIRO Impacts and
   Adaptation Working Group.

   Caribbean: Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change (CPACC)

   CLIMAS: The Climate Assessment Project for the Southwest

   Climate Change in Portugal: Scenarios, Impacts, and Adaptation
   Measures.  From SIAM (Scenarios, Impacts and Adaptation Measures)
   project run by Observatorio Astronomico de Lisboa (Portugal)

   Southern Appalachians Man and the Biosphere Cooperative

   The VEMAP Project (Vegetation/Ecosystem Modeling Assessment Project).
   Project sponsored by Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), NASA's
   Mission to Planet Earth (MTPE),  USDA Forest Service Southern Global
   Change Program and U.S. Department of Energy, Terrestrial Carbon
   Processes, Environmental Sciences Division, Office of Biological and
   Environmental Research.

   ACACIA: A Consortium for the Application of Climate Impact Assessments

   Center for Integrated Regional Assessment (CIRA)

   NOAA/CPC Regional Climate Centers

   Global Environmental Assessment (GEA) Project

   National Institute for Global Environmental Change (NIGEC)

   Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC) - Thematic Guide to
   Integrated Assessment Modeling

   U.S. Country Studies Program


   USGCRP logo & link to home US Global Change Research Program Office,
   400 Virginia Ave, SW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20024. Tel: +1 202 488
   8630. Fax: +1 202 488 8681. Email: information@usgcrp.gov. Web:
   www.usgcrp.gov. Webmaster: WebMaster@usgcrp.gov
