http://tccr.oar.noaa.gov/Meetings/04-25-00minutes.htm

   NOAA Research Technical Committee on Computing Resources

   Semi-Annual Meeting

   April 25, 26, 27 - 2000

   Host: Aeronomy Lab, Boulder

   Attendees (* denotes TCCR member, ** denotes TCCR ex-officio member)

   Jim Abeyta*, SEC        Nancy Huang, OAR Hq      Rica Semones, OAR Hq
   Rich Beeler*, ETL       Jerry Janssen**, Bou NOC Nancy Soreide, PMEL
   Joan Brundage*, FSL     Warren Keenan*, OGP      Kirk Thoning*, CMDL
   Cathy Burgdorf*, AL     Kevin Kelleher*, NSSL    Rick Tisinai, AL
   Cahil Converse*, OAR Hq Bob Kidwell, NOAA        Stan Wilkison, ARL
   Diane Davidowicz, NOAA  Bob Kohler*,AOML         Doug Forsyth, NOAA
   Tom DeFoor, SEC         Paul Lu*, PMEL           Jim Holitza, FSL
   John Fenton*, GLERL     Don Mock*,CDC            Julia Collins, CDC
   Walter Harrop, AL       Russ Richards**,Sea NOC  Gregg Phillips, FSL
   Alex Hsia, Bou NOC      Bruce Ross, GFDL

   Welcome Cathy Burgdorf, Dan Albritton

   Agenda Review Stan Wilkison

   Discussion of IT Management Issues Nancy Huang

   Preparation for Roger Baker's visit.

   Discussion of Roger Baker's IT vision presentation of Fall, 1999. (Link
   to Power Point slides)

   Affinity groups to address some of Roger Baker's IT concerns -

   Only a few NOAA folks are on these groups and the members tend to be
   too many levels from the actual issues.

   A clear description of what's broken is needed. If NOAA Research knew,
   we might be able to help. Most of the examples of over expenditures
   have been CAMS or the big operational systems.

   TCCR needs to present how common issues are being addressed within NOAA
   Research.

   Expertise with the DoC needs to be identified. Roger would like to tap
   into that.

   (i.e. NOAA is looked at for Netscape implementation)

   A common definition of success needs to be agreed upon.


   Afternoon Session

   Security Diane Davidowicz, Jerry Janssen, Kirk Thoning

   Bob Kidwell: Working on a Cyber Terrorism Protection Initiative for
   FY2002. Could get funds sooner under the Critical Infrastructure
   Protection Program. Evolution of NESDI Initiative, putting more focus
   on IT security issues. Additional areas to focus on are Web farms and
   the CIRT for DoC. NOAA has expertise in both areas.

   Web server registration: NOAA-CIRT proactively set up own registration
   of web servers. Asked and received extension of original deadline. This
   was a reaction to EPA's problems with Congress. Problem wasn't with web
   servers as much as general IT security.

   Show that NOAA Research is proactive concerning security. Security plan
   for DSRC is a good example.

   Diane Davidowicz: Overview of NOAA-CIRT and discussion of ETL incident
   of last year. (Link to Power Point slides.)

   Wednesday, April 26

   OAR Overview Carol Knight

   Demonstration of new NOAA Research Web site
   (http://www.oar.noaa.gov/index.html)

   Issue: Need to have Privacy link and Accessibility link on main page of
   web page

   Suggestion: Test search engines to see if OAR web page appears early.

   OAR's IT Management - Discussion with Roger Baker Nancy Huang

   Stan Wilkison - Introduce TCCR

   Don Mock - Short history of TCCR

   Talked about NIST/OAR supercomputer collaboration

   Broke down in 1992

   A group was formed to manage this arrangement. That group continued
   after the end of the relationship and was renamed TCCR in November 1992

   The group meetings were rotated throughout the ERL Labs

   TCCR Mission Statement (Link to KK's Power Point slides)

   Accomplishments since its formation

   Smooth transition from centralized computing to distributed computing

   Philosophy of continuous technical refreshment

   Developed comprehensive networking plan that served as the NOAA NESDI
   initiative

   Forefront of promoting web technology throughout OAR and NOAA

   Improvement of procurement process, creating SCIWOC and BPAs

   Better support for OAR Management to respond to IT issues

   Information sharing and problem solving across the OAR organization


   Roger Baker:

   Philosophy of IT Restructuring

   Jim Baker's view of computing

   Administrative computing

   Operational computing

   Research computing - do not screw it up

   Our budgets in IT are shrinking. How can we get more out of these
   budgets.

   What is the most important part of the restructuring? CIO structure.

   One of virtues of IT is that we can only make it better. Some areas
   need a lot of help. Other areas such as OAR are pretty darn good but
   still can be made better.

   Ex. Capability and maturity model for software development.

   Another: IT help desks occur throughout organization. Is there an
   benefit of trying to consolidate these? Likewise, multiple e-mail
   systems could be consolidated.

   Is it possible to have a single help desk for different labs, each
   focusing on one area.

   OAR needs to submit a plan re IT restructuring, to be submitted 60 days
   from April 25.
   Data Center Consolidation does not affect OAR, because ours are not on
   the list of 14 centers within DOC. I am not adamant about looking at DC
   Consolidation in OAR but we should still be thinking about it.

   Web server registration- EPA problems with its web serving security
   triggered him to look at web serving throughout DOC. Hence the web
   server registration process that needed to be done quickly. Apology for
   the expenditure of resources that were required.

   Over a thousand web servers in DOC. We want to encourage web pages, but
   want to limit the web serving, because many of these do not have a
   firewall, a security plan, and a web manager. Worry that many of these
   web servers could be broken into in order to be used for as a jump off
   for larger break-in.

   An approach we are looking into is to encourage a web farm that is
   managed on a 7x24 basis. This is a statement of desire, namely manage
   only 5 web servers throughout DOC.

   Nancy Soreide- Web farm is okay for static web site. Does not work with
   sites that have large database behind them or have dynamic java script,
   etc.

   Roger Baker- Prefer having the database, etc., which is referenced
   remotely, to reside on your local systems. Regarding delays due to
   transmissions, there always can be exceptions to a rule. The idea would
   be to have a web farm in each of: Seattle, Boulder, and three in the
   Washington area for the sake of competition.

   To have changes occur, we need to start the process a year or more in
   advance. I find that making statements that are controversial causes
   people to pay attention to it and facilitates real discussion.

   Russ Richards- Will you make the distinction between Internet and
   Intranet regarding web servers.

   Roger Baker- Yes, there are large differences there. However, there are
   functions on the Intranet that have critical importance to that
   organization and require 7x24 capabilities and need to be bullet-proof.
   For other Intranet functions, you have a higher level of trust
   regarding the users of that Intranet. There is still an issue as to how
   you deal with internal people

   Rich Beeler- There are issues regarding security beyond web servers.
   These need to be discussed.

   Jerry Janssen- I have a problem with the idea that we need more web
   pages but fewer web servers. This goes against the concept of
   encouraging innovation and collaboration within our organization and
   with other organizations including universities - a key part of our
   research activities in OAR.

   Roger Baker- Will people have heartburn if the web farm is located
   within a single room in the Boulder building. RESPONSE: Yes, since
   certain applications need to be directly attached to the web server.

   Don Mock- Issue is really what can be done to improve security on the
   visible web sites and how can we perform what we do with web serving
   more efficiently? There are issues that fight the philosophy of
   consolidated web serving that might make them sense for some aspects of
   web use.

   Roger Baker- Can you guarantee that every system within NOAA Research
   is covered by a security plan?

   Cahil Converse- Yes, we have 26 security plans, involving 2 plans for
   each laboratory. Note that the NURP and Sea Grant organizations are
   within the OAR HQ plan.

   Cahil Converse- (Link to Power Point slides)

   Challenges we are facing:

   Inadequate resources

   High speed connections cause problems for security

   Training (need funds for this - estimate $500K - comment that we need a
   person per site)

   Hiring and retaining security professionals

   Solutions

   Proactive IT security

   - security auditing, monitoring, and intrusion detection

   - etc.

   Nancy Huang- IT Planning

   Roger Baker- My philosophy is to have the IT planning be a reflection
   of what you actually do in your own planning process.

   Need:

   Strategic plan some time during the year

   Documents for your initiatives e.g., 300b that will be going straight
   to OMB

   Operation Plan- Look for a submission in October on how you plan to
   spend your IT funds. How do you as a manager control the funds and deal
   with your IT process? This should include a view of the process and how
   you intend to deal with issues during the coming year. (NB This will
   need to be a written plan) You need to indicate the milestones, etc. I
   want to see responsible IT management and how you do this.

   Comment that these problems are issues presented to Daley. There may be
   duplication of effort in OAR but many of these other problems are not
   problems in OAR. I still say that IT can always be improved. If I find
   cooperation within a group, I tend to be more willing to cooperate and
   make serious consideration of OAR's proposed solutions.

   IRM Updates Bob Kidwell

   Census PCs - Bad News - Others in Dept. have realized their loss, and
   have decided that they should decide the fate of the equip. Roger Baker
   realizes that there is an internal need. Deputy AA wants to ship off to
   MSIs. Not all equip will go to NOAA, it will be distributed throughout
   department.

   - Good News - Roger has made himself part of the reallocation, and all
   Census systems may become available to DOC orgs at some later time.
   This includes higher level systems DELL 6300 Servers and an additional
   10,000 laptops.

   There is no guidance at this point on how the equipment will be
   distributed from each depot.

   - Dell is warrantee systems for 1 year. Dell is interested in
   supporting NOAA in clustering the systems. May provide additional
   equip. to do testing. Dell might work a deal for upgrading systems
   w/memory, etc.

   - NOAA wants to send PCs that we are replacing through this acquisition
   to schools that are listing on the "school register". Looking to get
   PCs to schools that have heavy need.

   Accessability Issues - Check the IRM web site to see the accessibility
   issues for NOAA. Guidelines on website.

   Site Licenses -

   IDL (RichB): Need to pay $130K this year and the $130K next year.
   Alternately, $195K this year and then less next year. Question of
   whether OAR CIO could contribute $100K this year to reduce the cost
   this year. Unsure where to go. Will table until we get feedback from
   NancyH. Raise issue again on Thursday because need to resolve this by
   the end of this week. OAR site license would be a good political story
   to tell DOC CIO, etc

   Oracle - Bob is not very sure of a license agreement with Oracle.
   Oracle's recent offer is by power units ($/Mhz), prohibitively
   expensive. IRM is still discussing a 3 year term license. Not likely to
   happen.

   Vmware - virtual machine for linux/windows. Similar to dual boot w/o
   rebooting. About 40% overhead. Some interest but not at a high enough
   level possibly.

   Action: FSL will put together a brief description and send it out to
   TCCR mail list. Also will look into discount schedule with vendor.
   Comment: ECMWF found this software to be very valuable solution for
   them because scientists come from different countries with different
   needs.

   Corel - Currently in place. Renewed in November for one more year, and
   a review of office software before next renewal comes up.

   ssh - V2.0 costs money. Used for higher speed. $300 for server, $99 for
   client with volume discounts. Make sure that what we purchase is
   backward compatible. May be addressed at NOAA IT architecture team
   level and see who would be interested. IPSEC VPN clients are similar.

   Both IPSEC VPN and ssh should be in CyberTerrorism Protection Init.
   Incorporate language into initiative for funding. Security architecture
   group should take the lead to get it into the initiative Get words in
   the next week to Bob into the initiative. Diane D. could help.

   Secure Shell (SSH 2): SSH 2 allows much faster encryption of data. SSH
   2 can connect with SSH 1. Price: $89 for single license, $300 for
   server license. How does it interact with VPN? DianeD seemed to see
   some problems with this. Is it a diverging standard? The key is to make
   sure that it will be compatible with the other organizations that you
   are communicating with. Issue that there is no "secure copy." (?) Open
   SSH? NOAA is evolving to be interested in this. NCEP is interested in
   it and has been using SSH 1. Performance improvements of SSH 2 makes it
   appealing. Note that the performance hit is primarily only evident when
   you do data transfer.

   Note that VPN is similar to SSH, but in terms of hardware vs. software
   (?).
   DianeD: SSH is likely to be the standard for universities. However, I
   prefer IPSEC for internal NOAA communications. Likely that we will
   still need a server version of SSH for those to use when they are
   accessing sites that use SSH (e.g., NERSC, universities).

   BobK- I find that companies tend to give us really good deals when we
   negotiate with them as if we are NOAA. May be an appropriate tactic
   when we are looking at software such as SSH.

   DianeD- I use SSH a lot. Valuable for creating secure communications
   and for setting up a more trusting environment. Think that we should
   support both IPSEC and SSH 2. Valuable to have both because will
   provide flexibility for communicating with both types of environments.
   Value is that these cover both UNIX and NT environments. Regarding SSH,
   do we go to OpenSSH or do SSH purchase? If in security architecture
   plan, would tend to support IPSEC because it will be a standard (but
   could be poorly implemented). However, we also need to include SSH in
   this strategy. Good story to tell for security initiative as well.
   Biggest issue is whether you go with Data Fellows or with the freeware.

   BobK- Valuable to consider including this in the Cyber Terrorism
   Initiative for FY 2002. May be that we could get funds in October 2000.
   Think that this makes sense in going forward with initiative. Work out
   a story for this and get some position worked up within a week so we
   can include this in initiative.

   RussR- There are a lot of bugs in SSH 1, so desirable to go to SSH 2.

   DianeD- http://www.orbs.org/otherresources.html

   Ask them to test your site. Note that NSSL's Netscape site has trouble
   with spam. Trying to work this out. Orbs having trouble with viewing
   netscape sites.

   See if we are being used as spam relay.

   In sendmail startup scripts, remove -bd option.

   Tells sendmail to bind to port 25, but all outgoing mail is processed.

   If you get spammed, forward with full SMTP headers to abuse@noaa.gov

   Matlab - see if IDL flies first since its not as popular.

   E-Forms - Working on developing NOAA forms in the .PDF format. Adobe
   Exchange may be the savior of the forms issue, may license through all
   NOAA. Current Forms affinity group is in trouble. Forms on the current
   site are not good! Dept is thinking about buying Adobe Exchange at $30
   per seat. Might not be worth it.

   Netscape Update Cahil Converse

   Budget: $722 + 76K = $798K

   paid for 2 calendar servers + developers time

   $200K left to set up Messaging ops center.

   Budget will decrease next year, but not much

   Actual location of MOC is up in air. As mailhub goes away, X.500
   directory will move into MOC.

   NOAA's been tasked to come up with a common DoC-wide directory.
   Decisions by next fall.

   RichB-

   MCB policy has been announced at website:

   Three issues are:

   · Message size limitation (NWS wants this limited to 5 MB (best
   practice, 10 MB as hard limit), but CEO of LO has final say. OAR CIO
   will not restrict this.

   · Message store size (no issue)

   · Alternative address (important to allow a waiver of 6 months)

   Transition period of 6 months vs. 2 years

   Allow alternative addresses (e.g., kkelleher@nssl.noaa.gov) for two
   years (was six months only) and then go away. Will not have any other
   options. Other line offices are pushing this, because this is the way
   they are doing their mail. Suspect that some people will be doing
   sweeps of names and that these people with alternative addresses will
   appear as multiple people.

   Doug Forsyth will look into the issue of alternate addresses.

   Key point that NOAA needs to assure us that the mail will be delivered
   correctly. Currently is not the case!

   Routing mail: Now have two mail hubs, MH1 in SSMC and MH2 in Seattle.

   Would like to have a "Cisco distributed director" that will choose
   which hub is closest and then direct the mail to that hub. It is one
   hop to do this. Then, the message's final destination will be
   determined from that mail hub. If the sender is located at the final
   destination, then the message will not go outside the building if use
   the local address. If you use noaa.gov, then it may still have to go
   out to the hub.

   Problem is that, if the mail hub is down, then the message gets queued
   until the mail hub comes back up. The mail does not get redirected to
   an active mail hub because the mail gets queued!

   CahilC- Mail hub will not go away because NWS has not been able to
   convert. Likely will go beyond June.

   RussR- What happened to the mail forwarding hub in NOAA?? Most
   important part of implementation. Also, no calendaring server has shown
   up yet. Comment that SSMC typically ignores Boulder

   CahilC- James came out to Boulder to set up servers. I asked James
   Fleet to get everyone in OAR onto the schedule. I have a centralized
   server and can offer to bring anyone on the east coast on board.

   PaulL- Where is PMEL on the schedule?

   RussR- There is a schedule on the web. People can sign up. The Netscape
   mail hub is fast.

   RichB- It is critical for everyone to get moving on this. The support
   for old NOAA mail hub will be going down soon.

   Cahil has centralized server that is open to anyone

   Thursday, April 27

   CAMS Update Rica Semones

   CAMS is under CFO. Asked to doing a pilot project - NOS.

   Equipment is being upgraded.

   2 suns for oracle.

   Travel manager: 3 Citrix servers are on order

   configured for 75 concurrent users.

   Banyon printer won't be supported. May have to go to 4^th server.

   EASC piloting bankcard module. Production end of 3^rd qtr

   Users will do own reconcilliation.

   Travel manager for web have major problems. Next version is at least a
   year away.

   WAN connection is slower than I2 for now.

   Travel manager is product that can help folks, but we need to get past
   some issues.

   FDMS: www.pmel.noaa.gov/fdms

   IDL Discussion:

   IDL - Proposal: Nancy pays $50K this year and next and we split the
   rest between the groups.

   Must get it out by May 15.

   Nancy: wants proposal folks to acknowledge IT support costs and wants
   to see about security costs. Nancy and Warren K. will talk with OGP
   director on acknowledging IT costs in proposals during week of 5/1,


   ACTION: Let Rich know how much money each lab will put in for option 2
   for this year by May 5

   Vote: Recommendation to Nancy that she contribute $50K and that we
   split remaining $80K by 12 (or 13). ($6.1 or 6.5K)


   How much will RSI credit labs on maintenance agreement toward the site
   license?

   Do we still need to put money into the Arctic computer?

   Role of TCCR

   Nancy is looking for an IT review board possibly made up of deputy
   directors.

   Bob K: Possibly strengthen TCCR and have it be Nancy's group.


   Motion: Every lab should designate a CIO and the TCCR is a board of the
   CIOs or their designated representatives. Proposed: Don Mock, Second:
   Warren Keenan

   Friendly amendment : Every lab should designate a CIO (or senior IT
   official) and the TCCR is a board of the CIOs (or senior IT officials)
   or their designated representatives. Proposed: Bob Kidwell, Kevin
   Kelleher

   Friendly amendment : Every lab should designate a CIO (or equivalent)
   and the TCCR is composed of those individuals or their designated
   representatives. Proposed: Don Mock, Kevin Kelleher


   Passed unanimously.

   Doug F: IT person should sit at the table. Need one conduit to Nancy

   LO needs an IT review board (possible role of TCCR)

   Put together centers of excellence instead of affinity board.

   Major IT initiatives would be discussed in IT review board.

   Possible wording for part of an element of our Performance Plans: Serve
   as the laboratory's representative on the OAR TCCR, representing your
   organization on all IT management issues.
   Each one has one critical element of small % that states that we are a
   TCCR member, attend meetings and consult with OAR CIO as needed, help
   with IT arch, participate in IT planning process. Objective is work as
   a team.....

   Lab CIO have authority, has Performance Plan element

   TCCR is advisory to Nancy

   Action: Joan Brundage will draft a proposed Performance Plan element
   and distribute to TCCR.

   Vote for new officers: GFDL is absent

   Chair - Joan Brundage, accepted, passed

   Vice Chair - Nominees:

   Warren Keenan - elected by secret ballot

   Cathy Burgdorf- declined

   John Fenton - nominated

   IT Architecture Update Kevin Kelleher

   Approach: If NOAA level is agreeable, we will write a paragraph
   acknowledging that and will note any things we take exception to.

   Scientific computing: Non-NOAA. Doing some Gap analysis.

   Admin Computing: Non-NOAA. Draft thru target.

   Data archive/access: NOAA level is adequate. Centers of data are
   preserved. Data portal will provide convenient access. Doesn't preclude
   you from having your own site and data management.

   Network: NOAA level is still vague, so it didn't get far. Went thru
   seven layer model. Eg. Building wiring should be centrally managed
   (still can do own stuff in addiion), cable types (mainly affects NWS),
   AWIPS network is exempt, coordination of network management - not
   central. We put together our exceptions and watch to see that we don't
   diverge too far. Hopeful comment - Boulder would be a good place to set
   up a network testbed NW Region should offer to do a testbed. Still a
   difference in theories.

   Security: Fundamental difference between OAR and others. We are about
   80% compliant but the other 20% is significant. Points of discussion:
   N-CIRT be police, etc. or N-CIRT can do positive things by providing
   patches, education, etc. Jerry and Cahil need to examine drafts and
   comment. Some is too detailed, and some things were left out. Security
   architecture needs to be basis for Cyberterrorism Protection
   Initiative.

   Messaging: NOAA level is sufficient.

   Make IT Architecture updating into charter of TCCR.

   Next meeting: AOML (Miami) November 1,2 (Wed, Thurs)

   GLERL Spring, 01

   OAR's IT Management (cont'd) Nancy Huang

   Observations from Roger Baker's visit:

   Got message across that we exist and have for a long time. As long as
   we are aware of managements concerns and react to some, he will let us
   do what we need.

   The way he operates: will issue something and expects to hear from us
   as to how something won't work or doesn't apply.

   Don't know how we can have same rapport with Roger w/o talking with him
   in person more often.

   We need to come up with a proposal for how to do web farms.

   He's not a political person. Knows the technology.

   He enjoyed himself and wants to rethink some things.

   Wanted to know what he's done to make things so bad.

   Need to try to get involved in some of his issues.

   Already looking at NOAA for CIRT, messaging.

   Grants system Rica Semones (Link to PowerPoint slides)

   Not jumping into MIS system. Waiting to see how FDMS and grants system
   work and see how we have to expand from there.

   MIS web page: oarmis.oar.noaa.gov

   IT web page: oarit.oar.noaa.gov

   More security Diane Davidowicz (Link to PowerPoint slides)

   Need people like Diane in other places in NOAA (Sea, Bou)

   Be able to work together to push further analysis up to Diane's level.

   STS - OAR employees within smaller groups that work with N-CIRT
   CyberTerrorism Prot. Init: Mini CIRTs in 6 or so locations Our response
   to Critical Infrastructure protection

   Security needs to be made a priority in OAR. We spend money on it.

   Diane: If you pay someone to do penetration testing, see how
   sophisticated their tests are.

   Vulnerability scanning is closer to what we want.

   PKI issues: issue for OAR because we do have outside collaborators who
   we need to have digital certificates Does this have enough effect on
   other parts of OAR? Not right now, but its coming.

   Admin computing: Take time to plan. Won't be able to afford it all this
   year.

   Nancy will get back to group by May 1 with ideas for spending her
   money.
