http://www.sc.doe.gov/ascr/mics/index.html

   M.I.C.S. logo Mathematical, Information, and Computational Sciences
   spacer
   Department of Energy
   Office of Science
   Advanced Scientific Computing Research
   spacer D.O.E. Seal


   Mission
   Staff
   Funding Opportunities
   Peer-Review Policy
   Related Links
   Contact Us
   Directions
   Site Map
   Archive
   replacing images
   What's New
   Research Programs
   Applied Mathematics
   Computer Science
   National Collaboratories
   High-Performance Networks
   Scientific Discovery through Advanced Computing
   Research Facilities
   National Energy Research Scientific Center
   Advanced Computing Research Testbeds
   Energy Science Network
   bottom tab

   The mission of the Mathematical, Information, and Computational
   Sciences (MICS) program, is to discover, develop, and deploy the
   computational and networking tools that enable researchers in the
   scientific disciplines to analyze, model, simulate, and predict complex
   physical, chemical, and biological phenomena important to the
   Department of Energy.

                                    Staff

                            Funding Opportunities

                             Peer-Review Policy

                                Related Links

                                 Contact Us

                                 Directions

                                  Site Map

                                  Archives

                                 What's New

   Applied Mathematics supports mathematical and computational research
   that facilitates the use of the latest high-performance computer
   systems in advancing our understanding of science and technology. This
   program supports research at academic institutions.

   These pilot projects test, validate, and apply collaboratory tools in
   partnership with other DOE programs The Materials MicroCharacterization
   Collaboratory provides remote access to electron beam
   microcharacterization of material; the Diesel Combustion Collaboratory
   links researchers to develop the next generation of clean diesel
   engines.

    This program supports innovative advancement in computer performance
    and computational science techniques.

   This Program addresses the fundamental issues of scalable and secure
   networks that are capable of delivering to scientific application
   end-to-end performance in order of magnitude several times greater than
   today's Internet or commercial data network. Advanced network features
   include gigabit/sec throughput, network agility, service
   differentiation, smart network security, observability and
   controllability.

   SciDAC is a five-year program to develop the Scientific Computing
   Software and Hardware Infrastructure needed to use terascale computers
   to advance its research programs in basic energy sciences, biological
   and environmental research fusion energy sciences, and high-energy and
   nuclear physics. This ambitious program was launched in FY 2001.

                              Explanatory Text

    ESnet provides infrastructure and leading-edge network services in
    support of DOE's missions, including the distributed computing
    capabilities needed for forefront scientific research. ESnet holds a
    leadership role in the worldwide Internet community in planning and
    implementing the transition to the next generation Internet Protocol,
    IPv6.

   NERSC, located at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, operates one
   of the nation's most powerful unclassified computing resources. Funded
   by the Office of Science, NERSC supplies computing cycles and
   intellectual expertise to scientific researchers in the U.S. and their
   international collaborators.

   The ACRTs support hardware and testbeds for both application pilots and
   fundamental research. Because many of the issues to be investigated
   only appear in the computer systems at significantly larger scale than
   the hardware's design point, the ACRTs must procure/develop software to
   manage the largest scale systems possible. Therefore, these systems are
   managed as research programs and not as information technology
   investments.

                        Topical Computing Facilities

   Scientists at Northeastern University are using NERSC's Cray T3E to
   study the complicated spontaneous pattern formation processes occurring
   during the growth of solids. The image illustrates eutectic two-phase
   cells, or colonies, which form during the directional solidification of
   a binary eutectic alloy with a ternary impurity.

   This picture demonstrates particle trajectories and electrostatic
   potentials from a 3D implicit tokamak plasma simulation employing
   adaptive mesh techniques. The boundary is aligned with the magnetic
   field which shears around the torus. The strip in the torus is aligned
   with the local magnetic field and is color mapped with the local
   electrostatic potential.

   Results of simulations of equi-atomic CuZn in fcc lattice formations.
   In the visualization, the large spheres represent Cu atoms and the
   small spheres represent Zn atoms. The excess charge on each atom is
   represented by the blue-red color spectrum. Blue is mapped to atoms
   with the maximum positive charge while red is mapped to those with the
   highest negative charge. Green is the midrange.
