http://www.optometry.ca.gov/documents/Webnotice1531.htm

   TITLE 16. BOARD OF OPTOMETRY


   NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Board of Optometry (hereinafter
   "board") is proposing to take the action described in the Informative
   Digest. Any person interested may present statements or arguments
   orally or in writing relevant to the action proposed at a hearing to be
   held at the Consumer Affairs Building, 400 R Street, Sacramento,
   California, at 10:30 a.m., on February 15, 2001. Written comments must
   be received by the board at its office not later than 5:00 p.m. on
   February 12, 2001 or must be received by the board at the hearing. The
   board, upon its own motion or at the instance of any interested party,
   may thereafter adopt the proposals substantially as described below or
   may modify such proposals if such modifications are sufficiently
   related to the original text. With the exception of technical or
   grammatical changes, the full text of any modified proposal will be
   available for 15 days prior to its adoption from the person designated
   in this Notice as contact person and will be mailed to those persons
   who submit written or oral testimony related to this proposal or who
   have requested notification of any changes to the proposal.

   Authority and Reference:
   Pursuant to the authority vested by Section(s) 3025, 3041.2, and 3053
   of the Business and Professions Code, and to implement, interpret or
   make specific Section(s) 3025 of said Code, the California State Board
   of Optometry is considering changes to Division 15 of Title 16 of the
   California Code of Regulations as follows:

   INFORMATIVE DIGEST/PLAIN ENGLISH POLICY STATEMENT OVERVIEW

   The enactment of SB 929 (effective January 1, 2001) expanded the scope
   of optometric practice in California to a level consistent with most
   other states. By signing this legislation, Governor Davis eliminated
   this board's impetus for developing and administering its own
   examination as previously supported by Government Code Section 12944.
   Partially, this section addresses regulatory board discrimination in
   occupational testing. It was the board's opinion that although a
   "national" test existed which other states utilize, that because the
   scope of optometric practice in California was lower than other states
   it would have been discriminatory to use the national examination for
   licensure.

   Eliminating the California Licensure Examination will dramatically
   reduce or even eliminate candidate travel and examination registration
   costs because the national examination is administered at all of the
   optometry schools in the country twice a year.

   FISCAL IMPACT ESTIMATES

   Fiscal Impact on Public Agencies Including Costs or Savings to State
       Agencies or Costs/Savings in Federal Funding to the State: None.
       Nondiscretionary Costs/Savings to Local Agencies: None.
       Local Mandate: None.
       Cost to Any Local Agency or School District for Which Government
       Code Section 17561 Requires Reimbursement: None.

       Significant Adverse Economic Impact on Business:

   The board has determined that the proposed regulatory action would have
       no significant adverse economic impact on California business
       enterprises and individuals, including the ability of California
       businesses to compete with businesses in other states.

   Impact on Jobs/New Businesses:

   The board has determined that this regulatory proposal will not have a
       significant impact on the creation of jobs or businesses or the
       elimination of jobs or existing businesses or the expansion of
       businesses in the State of California.

   Statement of Potential Cost Impact on Private Persons or Business
   Directly Affected: May benefit new optometry school graduates and other
   optometrists seeking licensure in California by reducing travel &/or
   lodging costs and eliminating fees.

   Housing Costs: None

   PLAIN ENGLISH REQUIREMENT

   The express terms of the proposed action written in plain English are
   available from the agency contact person named in this notice.

   CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATIVES

   The board must determine that no alternative which it considered would
   either be more effective in carrying out the purpose for which the
   action is proposed or would be as effective as and less burdensome on
   affected private persons than the proposal described in this Notice.

   Any interested person may present statements or arguments orally or in
   writing relevant to the above determinations at the above-mentioned
   hearing.

   STATEMENT OF REASONS AND INFORMATION

   The board has prepared a statement of the reasons for the proposed
   action and has available all the information upon which the proposal is
   based.

   TEXT OF PROPOSAL

   Copies of the exact language of the proposed regulations and of the
   statement of reasons and other information, if any, may be obtained at
   the hearing or prior to the hearing upon request from the Board of
   Optometry, 400 R Street, Suite 4090, Sacramento, California 95814.


   CONTACT PERSON

   Inquiries concerning the proposed administrative action may be
   addressed to Jane Flint at the above address or at (916) 323-8722.


                        INITIAL STATEMENT OF REASONS


   Section 1531 Licensure Examination

   PROBLEM

   The recent enactment of SB 929 increases the scope of optometric
   practice in California to a level more consistent with other states.
   Prior to the enactment of this bill, the Board needed to develop and
   administer its own examination because the national examination used by
   other states tested for a scope of practice higher than California's.
   The Board must amend regulations to permit accepting the now viable
   national examination for California licensure.

   SPECIFIC PURPOSE

   This proposal will amend Section 1531., permitting the acceptance of
   the national examination for California licensure.

   NECESSITY

   The board has determined that an amendment to section 1531. in Title 16
   of the California Code of Regulations (CCR) is necessary. This section
   specifies what the licensure examination is composed of. Changes in law
   now provide that California may utilize a national examination for
   licensing individuals seeking to practice optometry in this state.

   TECHNICAL, THEORETICAL, AND/OR EMPIRICAL STUDY, REPORTS, OR DOCUMENTS

   The Board did not rely upon any technical, theoretical or empirical
   studies, reports or documents in proposing the repeal of this
   regulation.

   CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATIVES

   No other alternatives were presented to or considered by the board that
   would be either more effective than or equally as effective as or less
   burdensome to affected private persons than the proposed regulation.



                           TEXT OF PROPOSED CHANGE



   1531. Licensure Examination.

   The licensure examination is composed of:
       Section I - Written cognitive examination approved by the board and
       developed by the board or the National Board of Examiners in
       Optometry (NBEO) Basic Science and Clinical Science
       .
       Section II - [DEL: Clinical Skills Examination approved by the
       board and developed by the board or the National Board of Examiners
       in Optometry. :DEL]
       [DEL: Applicants who passed the clinical skills part of the NBEO
       examination administered in 1996 will have met the clinical skills
       examination requirement as revised June 1997. :DEL]
       Section III -
       [DEL: Patient management examination developed and administered by
       the board. :DEL] Patient Care Examination developed by the board or
       the Patient Care Examination developed by the National Board of
       Examiners in Optometry (NBEO), if the NBEO Patient Care Examination
       has been passed on or after January 2000. [DEL: :DEL]
       Section IV
       Section III - California Laws and Regulations Examination developed
       and administered by the Board or its contractor.

   Note: Authority cited: Sections 3025, 3041.2 and 3053, Business and
   Professions Code. Reference: Sections 3041.2 and 3053, Business and
   Professions Code.
