http://www.calstrs.ca.gov/benefit/defined/mbrinfo/rolloverdelay.htm

                  Delay in Rollover of 403(b) and 457 Funds

   Members have expressed interest in rolling over 403(b) or 457 funds to
   the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CalSTRS) to purchase
   service credit. This is in response to changes made recently to pension
   provisions in the Internal Revenue Code under federal legislation
   called the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act (EGTRRA)
   of 2001. However, we find that we will not be able to accept a rollover
   of these funds at this time.
   There are several reasons why the rollover cannot be accepted:
    1. While the provisions of EGTRRA become effective January 1, 2002,
       federal guidelines for implementation of the EGTRRA provisions have
       not yet been issued and these guidelines are needed to clarify our
       ability to accept rollovers in some instances.
    2. California is among several states that have not changed tax laws
       to correspond with the more liberal federal law. Consequently,
       there are differences between federal and state provisions that may
       result in a different tax basis for federal and state purposes. The
       differences may also affect the tax-qualified status of CalSTRS if
       the Plan were to accept rollover of 403(b) and 457 funds that is
       not authorized under the state tax code. In turn, this could
       subject the Plan and its members to additional income tax
       liability.
    3. CalSTRS is required by the Education Code to administer the Plan in
       accordance with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
       and the state’s Revenue and Taxation Code. Because the state’s
       Revenue and Taxation Code does not authorize CalSTRS to accept
       rollovers of 403(b) and 457 funds, CalSTRS cannot accept your
       rollover at this time.

   Until state tax law is amended to conform to the more liberal federal
   provisions, CalSTRS cannot accept the rollover of funds from 403(b) and
   457 plans. We do not know when such action will occur; however, we are
   hopeful that California will enact conforming legislation early in
   2002.
   You may direct questions regarding efforts to conform California’s law
   with EGTRRA to your local state legislators or to the Assembly or
   Senate Committees on Revenue and Taxation.

   Navigation Bar
       Home       Search       Contact CalSTRS

   Request to Rollover Delay Information  Revised January 02, 2002
