http://www.bxa.doc.gov/Wassenaar/Default.htm

   Skip to main content of page

    Go to the BXA Home Page What's New on the BXA Web site Conduct a full
                    text search of the main BXA Web site

   BXA Header Graphic

              You are here: BXA Home Page > Wassenaar Home Page

   spacer graphic

                       Go to BXA's Wassenaar Home Page
                Members of Wassenaar and Membership Criteria
                 Control List and Initial Wassenaar Elements
                          Implementing Regulations
                      Wassenaar Reporting Requirements
                    Press Releases and Public Statements
          Frequently Asked Questions about the Wassenaar Agreement
         Go to the International Web site of the Wassenaar Agreement
                          This page was updated on:
                                  12/28/01

                          The Wassenaar Arrangement
                               - An Overview -

   The Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and
   Dual-Use Goods and Technologies, is one of four multilateral export
   control regimes in which the United States participates. The
   Arrangement's purpose is to contribute to regional and international
   security and stability by promoting transparency and greater
   responsibility in transfers of conventional arms and dual-use (i.e.
   those having civil and military uses) goods and technologies to prevent
   destabilizing accumulations of those items. The Wassennar Arrangement
   establishes lists of items for which member countries are to apply
   export controls. Member governments implement these controls to ensure
   that transfers of the controlled items do not contribute to the
   development or enhancement of military capabilities that undermine the
   goals of the Arrangement, and are not diverted to support such
   capabilities. In addition, the Wassenaar Arrangement imposes some
   reporting requirements on its member governments

   The U.S. Government controls all items for export that are controlled
   multilaterally by the Wassenaar Arrangement. In general, export
   controls for dual-use goods and technologies controlled in the
   Wassenaar Arrangement are administered by the U.S. Department of
   Commerce and controlled for national security reasons on the Commerce
   Control List and the U.S. Department of State administers export
   controls on conventional arms.

   The agreement establishing the Wassenaar Arrangement, called the
   initial elements, was approved by its 33 founding countries in July
   1996. The Arrangement began operations in September of that year. Its
   headquarters are in Vienna, Austria although it is named after a suburb
   of The Hague, Netherlands where the agreement was reached. The
   Wassenaar Arrangement operates through a permanent secretariat in
   Vienna. In addition, its member countries send delegations to Austria
   for working groups and other meetings to develop organizational policy.
   A Plenary meeting is held annually to approve or reject the policies
   recommended by the working groups.
