http://caer.msfc.nasa.gov/whatwedo.html

   CaER What We Do

   spacer

   Our Roles

      Focus the Center's Planning Efforts — CaER facilitates and coordinates
      the Marshall Center Implementation Plan to carry out NASA's strategies.
      CaER also provides an effective process to match Center skills with
      center requirements, ensuring that the right people are at the right
      place with the right organizational structure to meet the Center's
      current and future challenges.

      Develop and Communicate Clear, Consistent Marshall Messages — CaER is
      the central hub for the dissemination of Marshall information, whether
      it be in the form of a news release of some new discovery,
      communicating center activities to employees and to the public, or
      providing materials and assistance to educational institutions to help
      teach our findings.

      Develop an Effective and Diverse Marshall Team — CaER provides an
      integral role in making sure that Marshall has the structure and
      leadership to meet the Center's mission, goals, and objectives. CaER
      also ensures that each and every employee at the Center has the right
      skills and the right job to meet their personal needs, as well as the
      needs of the organization in which they belong and the overall Center
      needs. CaER communicates employee benefits and services to employees,
      and rewards them for contributions to Center missions.

      Create and Sustain Strategic Partnerships and Alliances — CaER is
      responsible for creating and maintaining partnerships and alliances
      that expand technical frontiers for the benefit of Marshall, NASA, and
      the Nation, facilitating technology deployment by partnering with
      industry and academia in the commercialization of NASA technology.

      CaER is also responsible for providing opportunities for the
      educational community to participate in the drama of space exploration
      and to share in the resulting expansion of knowledge. This is done by
      promoting partnerships that enhance scientific, mathematical,
      engineering, and technology education for the benefit of NASA and the
      Nation, leading to development of innovative ways to support
      traditional and nontraditional learning.

   Goals and Objectives

      Facilitate and coordinate the Marshall Center strategic and
      implementation process — CaER facilitates the creation, maintenance,
      and publication of the Marshall Implementation Plan. CaER also
      publishes the Marshal Annual Report for distribution to customers and
      stakeholders, highlighting the Center's accomplishments and their
      significance.

      Develop and communicate — both within and outside the Center — clear
      consistent messages that are traceable to the Marshall Implementation
      Plan — CaER accomplishes this by:
        * Presenting the Marshall Implementation Plan to all Center employees
          through varied innovative means.
        * Facilitating development of Marshall core messages that communicate
          Marshall's roles, responsibilities, and missions.
        * Embedding Marshall core messages in all of our Directorate products
          and outreach activities, and influencing other Center organizations
          to do the same.
        * Conducting an annual "shareholders" meeting for Marshall customers
          and stakeholders, providing them a vivid report on the "state of
          the Center" and showing the results and benefits of their
          investments in the Center.
        * Using the excitement of space exploration to inspire the public,
          partner with industry, and engage academia.

      Provide tools and methods to enable the Marshall workforce to succeed
      in a dynamic environment — CaER accomplishes this by:
        * Increasing opportunities for rotations in key positions at the
          Center and NASA headquarters.
        * Developing enhanced training to increase leadership and to change
          management skills by enhancing NASA leadership training.
        * Educating and encouraging managers to increase the use of a variety
          of award methods to recognize employee excellence.
        * Evaluating the Center's awards system and implementing enhancements
          as appropriate.
        * Increasing employee knowledge and skills by helping them acquire
          functional and core competencies.
        * Increasing opportunities for continual learning.
        * Increasing internal and external partnerships to leverage the
          resources and talents or our workforce.
        * Increasing the workforce productivity through team building,
          mentoring, cross training, retraining, and other innovative means.
        * Encouraging and enhancing communications among Marshall
          Directorates, Departments, employees, and contractors.

      Provide quality products and services to our customers — CaER conducts
      a customer survey annually to determine customer satisfaction. The
      results of that survey are used to increase customer satisfaction by 10
      percent per year, until a 90 percent or better level is maintained.
      CaER will respond to any customer request within one business day or
   receipt.

CaER Operating Processes

   The goal of the CaER Directorate's operating processes is to provide
   products and services to meet each customer's needs, while balancing
   that goal with CaER's responsibilities, interests, and resources.

   At the core of its operating processes are four Customer Focus Groups:
   1) Engineering, 2) Institutional, 3) Projects, and 4) Science.

   Each group comprises the Director of the Office of Internal Relations
   and Communications and representatives of the appropriate center
   organization. Additional CaER representatives are on an ad hoc basis.
   The purpose of each group is to enhance and facilitate communications
   both within the CaER Directorate and across the Center.

   The Directorate will chair an Outreach Strategy Panel of
   representatives from the Equal Opportunity Office, Flight Projects
   Directorate, Global Hydrology Research Department, Microgravity
   Research Program Department, Science Directorate, Engineering
   Directorate, Space Transportation Directorate, and certain offices from
   CaER (Education Programs, Government and Community Relations, Internal
   Relations and Communications, Media Relations, and Technology
   Transfer).

   The charter of this group is to discuss and share information regarding
   outreach programs and activities, and to formulate strategies for
   extending education and outreach about Marshall programs to the
   Center's constituencies. Communications links will be established and
   maintained with NASA Enterprise Outreach teams.

   In addition, CaER operating processes may be triggered by an individual
   customer's request to a CaER entry-level point of contact has the
   following options when responding to the customer:
     * Answer it
     * Elevate the action to a multioffice team
     * Request management guidance and attention
     * Refer the matter to another office, with follow-up through closure
       as appropriate

   The weekly intra-CaER working group meeting is used to discuss
   significant issues, or the status of these action or events. It also is
   used to formulate strategy. Attendees are directors and deputies of
   CaER offices.

Continual Improvement

   CaER holds a minimum of one retreat annually to share information for
   organizational development, training, strategic planning, problem
   solving, employee morale, and self assessment. Customer feedback tools
   that are relevant to services CaER provides are used at least annually.

   The Directorate holds a minimum of one staff meeting weekly at a
   regularly scheduled time. These meetings are used to communicate
   significant information and events from the Directorate level to each
   office, from each office to the Directorate level, and between
   Directorate offices. Participating in these staff meetings are the
   director of the Directorate, the directors of each department, the
   deputy director for each department, and administrative support.

   At the Directorate level, advance agenda items are submitted to the
   Assistant to the Director. Invitations to outside speakers at staff
   meetings are encouraged to increase knowledge and information on Center
   projects and events.

   Each CaER office holds a minimum of one regularly scheduled staff
   meeting. Office directors communicate significant information acquired
   at the Directorate staff meetings to their employees.
