http://uness.larc.nasa.gov/issvc97/mbusines.htm

[tele.gif] 6^th Annual Click here to learn how to see the ISS from Earth!

   Make it Your Business

   LIVE via Satellite - Click here to find a host site for viewing near
   you

   February 25, 1999 1:00 – 3:00 pm ET
     * FREE! Register Now!
     * Who Should Attend
     * What You'll Learn
     * LIVE in the Studio
     * Participant Resources
     * About the ISS
     * For the Media


   FREE International Space Station Posters mailed to the first 100 people
   who send in their program evaluations via mail or on-line at: Site
   Coordinator Evaluation or Participant Evaluation

   Join NASA and its International Partners for the latest on research and
   commercial ventures as we move into the next phase of International
   Space Station (ISS) assembly. The ISS will be a permanently orbiting
   laboratory where long-duration materials, life sciences, and commercial
   research will take place in a nearly gravity-free environment.

   International scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs are on the
   threshold of a new era of discovery. Join viewers for a world-wide,
   interactive forum to discuss the global implications of
   commercialization of the space industry. A diverse panel of top NASA,
   university and commercial researchers, international investors, and
   other experts will take your questions and comments on the air.

   Don’t miss this FREE event! Save time – license online! Questions? Call
   1-888-287-8060

                               [gradblue.gif]


                             NASA Home Page WHRO

   National Engineers Week Official ISS Web Page Sigma Xi - The Scientific
                              Research Society


                               [gradblue.gif]


    Last modified January 16, 1999
    Patrick A. Troutman (p.a.troutman@larc.nasa.gov)
    NASA Langley Research Center





    [gradblue.gif]


   Who Should Attend

   Professionals interested in ISS research plans are invited to
   participate in this free, interactive satellite event. This event is
   designed especially for:
     * Research and development professionals

     * Commercial researchers and business representatives in
       biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, life sciences and materials
       research

     * Scientists affiliated with universities, hospitals, and government
       agencies

     * University students and faculty

     * Investors

   Don’t miss this FREE event! Save time – license online! Questions? Call
   1-888-287-8060

   ISS experts will answer your questions LIVE on the air -- you can email
   your questions in advance!


   [gradblue.gif]


   What You’ll Learn

   Get briefings on:
     * current government, industry and university International Space
       Station research partnerships

     * current biotechnology, life sciences and materials research in
       microgravity

     * the emerging field of commercial space development

     * the work of scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs as they
       prepare for the Space Station era

     * research opportunities and how to participate


   [gradblue.gif]


   Live in the Studio

   Email your Questions to the Experts!

   (Selected emails will be answered LIVE on the teleconference)


   [harris_bernard.jpg] Bernard Harris, Jr., M.D.

   is the Moderator for ISS: Make it Your Business.

   A former astronaut, Dr. Harris is chief scientist and medical director
   of SPACEHAB, Inc. He is a medical doctor and professor. As a NASA
   mission specialist, Dr. Harris flew on the Space Shuttle in 1993 and
   1995.



   [kathy_clark.jpg] Kathryn Clark

   is the Space Station Senior Scientist in NASA’s Office of Space Flight.
   As senior scientist, Dr. Clark coordinates international research and
   serves on NASA committees responsible for the oversight of the
   International Space Station.




   [frank2.jpg] Frank A. DiBello

   is vice chairman and a general partner of SpaceVest, a venture capital
   firm that invests in privately held space industry companies.
   Previously, Mr. DiBello was a senior partner with KPMG Peat Marwick,
   consulting with aerospace companies and government.





   [hawes_mike.jpg] W. Michael Hawes

   is the Deputy Director for Requirements and Chief Engineer for the
   International Space Station. In this capacity he is responsible for the
   development of program requirements and conducts program assessments.




   [klauss.jpg] David Klaus

   is a Research Associate with Bioserve Space Technologies, a NASA
   Commercial Space Center. In this capacity he is responsible for forming
   industrial collaborations to explore applications of space flight
   biotechnology. He is currently involved in a partnership between
   Bristol-Myers Squibb and Bioserve.




   [fschowen.jpg] Frank D. Schowengerdt

   is director of the Center for Commercial Applications of Combustion in
   Space and a professor of physics at the Colorado School of Mines. Dr.
   Schowengerdt has published numerous journal articles and invited papers
   in a variety of fields including commercial applications of combustion
   in space.




   David A. Weitz

   is a professor of physics at the University of Pennsylvania,
   where he carries out research in novel materials and their properties.
   He
   has been the principal investigator for three experiments on MIR and
   one on
   the shuttle, and has a major experiment planned for the express rack on
   the
   ISS, to investigate the potential of microgravity for improved
   synthesis and
   study of new materials.
