http://www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov/2002guidelines.doc

   HONOLULU-PACIFIC FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, Box
   50268, Room 8-125 Honolulu, Hawaii 96850 Telephone: (808) 541-2637/Fax:
   (808) 541-3429 January 16, 2002 To: Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive
   Board Members From: FEB Chairman Subj: Nomination Guidelines for 2002
   Excellence in Federal Government Awards The awards luncheon will be
   held on Wednesday, May 22, 2002, at the Sheraton Waikiki Hotel, Hawaii
   Ballroom. Details on the tickets, speaker, etc. will be forwarded to
   you when the information is available. This event, which is always well
   attended, provides an excellent opportunity for FEB members to
   recognize their outstanding employees and units. In response to
   feedback about the awards in the past few years, we have decided to
   present awards for both a small (300 and under) and a large (301 and
   over) agency in the following four categories: Employee of the Year -
   Professional, Administrative, Technical Employee of the Year - Clerical
   and Assistant Employee of the Year - Trades and Crafts Federal
   Manager/Supervisor of the Year The change will help nominees from
   smaller agencies to compete more equitably for the recognition they
   deserve. To help offset the cost of expanding the awards, we will be
   asking you to consider, as an agency, being a potential financial
   sponsor of the awards. A separate memorandum will be sent out in the
   next few weeks to explain how you can participate. . Agencies that are
   not members must submit their nominations to a member. Members are then
   responsible for screening the applications for subordinate commands and
   agencies. Each member may submit only one nomination in each category.
   Nominations are due in the FEB office by 4:00 p.m. on Friday, March 15,
   2002. The attached GAO decision authorizes agencies to pay for the
   tickets of their nominees and the nominees' supervisor. The FEB often
   receives questions as to whether employees can be granted
   administrative leave to attend the luncheon. As in the past, we
   encourage members to liberally grant administrative leave for this
   event. It is more meaningful to honor the nominees and the awardees
   when the awards are presented with co-workers in attendance. We
   appreciate your consideration to grant administrative leave given your
   workload priorities. If you have any questions about the award program,
   please call the FEB office at 541-2637. Edward L. Correa, Jr. Major
   General, Hawaii Army National Guard Adjutant General FY 02 FEB Chairman
   Attachments The 2002 Excellence in Federal Government Awards recognizes
   outstanding employees from the federal community. In addition, people
   who are not federal employees, but who have contributed significantly
   to the federal mission, are recognized with Citizen of the Year awards.
   Winners of the eight competitive categories are announced at the
   luncheon. Each FEB member is allowed to nominate one candidate in each
   of the following nine categories. Federal Employee of the Year
   (Professional, Administrative, Technical) Federal Employee of the Year
   (Clerical and Assistant) Federal Employee of the Year (Trades and
   Crafts) Federal Manager/Supervisor of the Year Exceptional Community
   Service Enlisted Service Member of the Year Military Officer of the
   Year Federal Organizational Excellence Award Citizen of the Year
   General Information Nominations must be received in the FEB office by
   4:00 p.m. on Friday, March 15, 2002. Winners in each category will be
   selected based on their accomplishments in calendar year 2001. A
   previous winner in a category cannot be renominated in the same
   category. An individual may only be nominated in a single category.
   This year the FEB will present awards to both a small (300 and under)
   and a large (301 and over) agency in the following categories: Federal
   Employee of the Year - Professional, Administrative, Technical Federal
   Employee of the Year - Clerical and Assistant Federal Employee of the
   Year - Trades and Crafts Federal Manager/Supervisor of the Year A
   distinguished panel of prominent local individuals from the private
   sector will judge the nominations. Submission Format . Nominations must
   be typed and the cover sheet signed by the FEB member. The nominee must
   sign the release statement that allows the use of the nomination
   information for judging and publicity. The original nomination form and
   four copies should be mailed or delivered to the Honolulu-Pacific
   Federal Executive Board, 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, Room 8-125, Box
   50268, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850 by 4:00 p.m., Friday, March 15, 2002. The
   fifty-word synopsis on the cover sheet will be used in the printed
   program and should summarize the nominee's achievements. Any statement
   over fifty words will be edited by the FEB. Eligibility by Category
   Federal Employee of the Year (Professional, Administrative, Technical);
   (Clerical and Assistant); and (Trades and Crafts) Nominees must have
   been continuous civil service employees of the Federal Government
   during all of calendar year 2001. Both appropriated and nonappropriated
   fund employees are eligible. Nominees may be either full or part-time.
   Contract employees and re-employed annuitants are not eligible.
   However, employees who meet the continuous civil service requirements
   for 2001 and have since retired are eligible. Under the Clerical and
   Assistant category, the nominees must be at GS-7 and below during
   calendar year 2001. The Trades and Crafts category is open to all
   trades, crafts, and laboring workers, including leaders and
   instructors. The Professional, Administrative, Technical category is
   open to employees of any grade. The accomplishments that the nominee is
   being recognized for should be limited to duties performed as part of
   the job during calendar year 2001. Do not include community service
   performed on a voluntary basis on the employee's own time. Federal
   Manager/Supervisor of the Year Nominees must have been continuous civil
   service employees of the Federal Government during all of calendar year
   2001. Both appropriated and nonappropriated fund employees are
   eligible. Nominees may be either full or part-time. Contract employees
   and re-employed annuitants are not eligible. However, nominees who meet
   the continuous civil service requirements for 2001 and have since
   retired are eligible. Nominees may be either supervisors or
   non-supervisory program managers in white-collar or blue-collar
   occupations. The accomplishments that the nominee is being recognized
   for should be limited to duties performed as part of the job during
   calendar year 2001. Do not include community service performed on a
   voluntary basis on the employee's own time. Military Officer of the
   Year/Enlisted Service Member of the Year Only members of the uniformed
   services who have been on continuous federal active duty from January 1
   through December 31, 2001 are eligible. The accomplishments that the
   nominee is being nominated for should be limited to duties performed as
   part of the job during calendar year 2001. Do not include community
   service performed on a voluntary basis on the employee's own time.
   Exceptional Community Service The award is limited to individuals only.
   Groups cannot compete in this category. Nominees must be continuous
   civil service employees of the Federal Government for all of calendar
   year 2001 or all grades of military personnel who have been on
   continuous federal active duty from January 1 through December 31,
   2001. The nomination may be for a single act of heroism/achievement or
   a continuing pattern of service to the community. The service must be
   to the community at large; it must be voluntary and uncompensated; and
   it cannot be a part of the employee's duties or performed on government
   time. Voluntary service within the agency or command does not apply.
   Federal Organizational Excellence Award This award recognizes teams or
   groups of employees for significant acts, services or achievements that
   affect the successful accomplishment of their organization's mission.
   Only one nomination per FEB member is allowed. Team members may be
   civil service, non-appropriated fund employees, and/or military
   personnel. The undertaking must have occurred in calendar year 2001 and
   be work related. The accomplishments must have been performed on the
   job. Citizen of the Year None of the people who are eligible to compete
   for the preceding awards are eligible to compete for this award.
   Nominations are strictly limited to individuals who are not federal
   employees or members of the active components of the uniformed
   services. Persons have been nominated for fostering intergovernmental
   cooperation, improving understanding between the civilian and federal
   communities, and for contributing to the success of federal programs
   through educational or business efforts. Although more than one person
   may be recognized in this category, nominations will be reviewed to
   insure that each person recognized is eligible and has contributed
   significantly to the Federal Government in Hawaii and the Pacific.
   Nomination Content The FEB will review all nominations to ensure the
   individuals meet the criteria. Only eligible nominees will be referred
   to the judges for consideration. Agencies/commands should check with
   the FEB office if there is a question about whether a nominee is
   eligible to compete in a particular category. Photographs Agencies are
   responsible for taking photographs of their nominees at the luncheon
   for in-house publications. Miscellaneous Information The FEB will be
   mailing out additional information on the speaker, tickets, menu,
   luncheon schedule, etc. Please make sure this information is forwarded
   to the appropriate people. The attached GAO decision B-236040 of
   October 9, 1990, ruled that fees charged in connection with the
   attendance of nominees, award recipients and supervisors at award
   ceremonies falls within the scope of the Incentive Awards Act. Agencies
   may reimburse from their operating appropriations the cost for award
   nominees and their supervisors/managers to attend the luncheon.
   Additional information about a nominee that may be of interest to the
   news media should be submitted on a separate sheet. For example, in the
   past the father of Hawaii's Salevaa Atisanoe, renowned Japanese sumo
   wrestler Konishiki, and the mother of Hawaii's own Brook Lee, the 1997
   Miss Universe, were nominated for awards. This information will be used
   for publicity only, and will not be used by the judges to determine the
   overall winner in each category. Small Agency (300 and under)
   Professional, Administrative, Technical Clerical and Assistant Trades
   and Crafts All information must be on this 3-page form. No additional
   pages or attachments will be accepted. Failure to furnish all of the
   information may disqualify the nominee. Nominations must be typed and
   signed by the FEB member submitting the application. Please submit
   original and four copies. Nominee's Full Name: Title of Position/Grade:
   Agency: Address: Telephone: Fax: Email: FEB Member's Name: Title:
   Agency: Address: Telephone: FEB Member's Signature: Fifty-word synopsis
   of nominee's accomplishments for printed program: SELECTION CRITERIA
   FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR Explain briefly how nominee performed
   in the following categories: Sustained superior performance in
   position. Exceptional contributions to improved operations and the
   attainment of program objectives and/or significant contributions to
   social, scientific or technological progress/developments on the job.
   Contributions resulted in savings to Federal Government (equipment,
   manpower, time, other resources). SELECTION CRITERIA FOR FEDERAL
   EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR 4. Significant improvements in service to
   customers and/or the public that the organization serves or activities
   that enhance the public image of government employees. Release: ``Under
   the provisions of the Privacy Act, I hereby authorize the use of
   personal information contained in the nomination by the Federal
   Government and the Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board for
   publicity and promotion for the 2002 Excellence in Federal Government
   Awards program.'' Nominee's Signature: Date: Enlisted Service Member of
   the Year Military Officer of the Year All information must be on this
   3-page form. No additional pages or attachments will be accepted.
   Failure to furnish all of the information may disqualify the nominee.
   Nominations must be typed and signed by the FEB member submitting the
   application. Please submit original and four copies. Nominee's Full
   Name: Title of Position/Rank: Agency: Address: Telephone: Fax: Email:
   FEB Member's Name: Title: Agency: Address: Telephone: FEB Member's
   Signature: Fifty-word synopsis of nominee's accomplishments for printed
   program: SELECTION CRITERIA FOR ENLISTED SERVICE MEMBER/MILITARY
   OFFICER Explain briefly how nominee performed in the following
   categories: Sustained superior performance in position. Exceptional
   contributions to improved operations and the attainment of program
   objectives and/or significant contributions to social, scientific or
   technological progress/developments on the job. Contributions resulted
   in savings to Federal Government (equipment, manpower, time, other
   resources). SELECTION CRITERIA FOR ENLISTED SERVICE MEMBER/MILITARY
   OFFICER 4. Significant improvements in service to customers and/or the
   public that the organization serves or activities that enhance the
   public image of government employees. Release: ``Under the provisions
   of the Privacy Act, I hereby authorize the use of personal information
   contained in the nomination by the Federal Government and the
   Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board for publicity and promotion
   for the 2002 Excellence in Federal Government Awards program.''
   Nominee's Signature: Date: Small Agency (300 and under) All information
   must be on this 2-page form. No additional pages or attachments will be
   accepted. Failure to furnish all of the information may disqualify the
   nominee. Nominations must be typed and signed by the FEB member
   submitting the application. Please submit original and four copies.
   Nominee's Full Name: Title of Position/Grade: Agency: Address:
   Telephone: Fax: Email: FEB Member's Name: Title: Agency: Address:
   Telephone: FEB Member's Signature: Fifty-word synopsis of nominee's
   accomplishments for printed program: Release: ``Under the provisions of
   the Privacy Act, I hereby authorize the use of personal information
   contained in the nomination by the Federal Government and the
   Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board for publicity and promotion
   for the 2002 Excellence in Federal Government Awards program.''
   Nominee's Signature: Date: SELECTION CRITERIA FOR FEDERAL
   MANAGER/SUPERVISOR Explain briefly how nominee performed in the
   following categories: Outstanding and consistent success in performing
   the management function of job (plan, organize, control and direct) to
   attain organizational goals. Professional management (EEO and
   personnel) approach in attracting, retaining and developing a
   cooperative, cohesive team of motivated and productive employees. 3.
   Leadership and participation in developing and implementing innovative,
   cost effective programs and operations which are reflected in improved
   service to customers or public which the organization serves. All
   information must be on this 2-page form. No additional pages or
   attachments will be accepted. Failure to furnish all of the information
   may disqualify the nominee. Nominations must be typed and signed by the
   FEB member submitting the application. Please submit original and four
   copies. Nominee's Full Name: Title of Position/Grade or Rank: Agency:
   Address: Telephone: Fax: Email: FEB Member's Name: Title: Agency:
   Address: Telephone: FEB Member's Signature: Fifty-word synopsis of
   nominee's accomplishments for printed program: Release: ``Under the
   provisions of the Privacy Act, I hereby authorize the use of personal
   information contained in the nomination by the Federal Government and
   the Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board for publicity and
   promotion for the 2002 Excellence in Federal Government Awards
   program.'' Nominee's Signature: Date: SELECTION CRITERIA FOR
   EXCEPTIONAL COMMUNITY SERVICE Explain briefly how nominee performed in
   the following categories: Personal commitment and leadership in
   community activities. Personal achievements which resulted in distinct
   benefits to the community. All information must be on this 2-page form.
   No additional pages or attachments will be accepted. Failure to furnish
   all of the information may disqualify the nominee. Nominations must be
   typed and signed by the FEB member submitting the application. Please
   submit original and four copies. Project/Group/Team's Name: Members'
   Names: Agency: Address: Telephone: Fax: Email: FEB Member's Name:
   Title: Agency: Address: Telephone: FEB Member's Signature: Fifty-word
   synopsis of group's/team's accomplishments for printed program:
   Release: ``Under the provisions of the Privacy Act, I hereby authorize
   the use of personal information contained in the nomination by the
   Federal Government and the Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board for
   publicity and promotion for the 2002 Excellence in Federal Government
   Awards program.'' Representative's Signature: Date: SELECTION CRITERIA
   FOR FEDERAL ORGANIZATIONAL EXCELLENCE Explain briefly how the group or
   team performed in the following categories: Description of a
   particularly difficult or important mission, operation or assignment
   accomplished by the group/team that demonstrated distinctive leadership
   and teamwork involvement. Indication of how the accomplishment had
   major significance or provided innovation in service to the public or
   provided substantially increased productivity or improved quality in
   terms of customer focus and satisfaction and strategic planning. All
   information must be on this 2-page form. No additional pages or
   attachments will be accepted. Failure to furnish all of the information
   may disqualify the nominee. Nominations must be typed and signed by the
   FEB member submitting the application. Please submit original and four
   copies. Nominee's Full Name: Occupation/Title: Company: Address:
   Telephone: Fax: Email: FEB Member's Name: Title: Agency: Address:
   Telephone: FEB Member's Signature: Fifty-word synopsis of nominee's
   accomplishments for printed program: Release: ``Under the provisions of
   the Privacy Act, I hereby authorize the use of personal information
   contained in the nomination by the Federal Government and the
   Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board for publicity and promotion
   for the 2002 Excellence in Federal Government Awards program.''
   Nominee's Signature: Date: CRITERIA FOR CITIZEN OF THE YEAR Briefly
   describe how nominee has fostered intergovernmental cooperation,
   improved understanding between the civilian and federal community, or
   contributed to the success of federal programs through educational or
   business efforts. GUIDELINES 2002 EXCELLENCE IN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
   AWARDS 2002 EXCELLENCE IN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AWARDS FEDERAL EMPLOYEE OF
   THE YEAR 2002 EXCELLENCE IN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AWARDS FEDERAL
   MANAGER/SUPERVISOR OF THE YEAR 2002 EXCELLENCE IN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
   AWARDS EXCEPTIONAL COMMUNITY SERVICE 2002 EXCELLENCE IN FEDERAL
   GOVERNMENT AWARDS FEDERAL ORGANIZATIONAL EXCELLENCE 2002 EXCELLENCE IN
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AWARDS CITIZEN OF THE YEAR IMPORTANT NOTE: Employees
   (general schedule and wage grade) who were program managers or in
   supervisory positions during 2001 cannot be nominated in these three
   categories. Employees in supervisory or managerial positions during
   2001 must be nominated in the Federal Manager/Supervisor of the Year
   category. IMPORTANT NOTE: Employees (general schedule and wage grade)
   who were program managers or in supervisory positions during 2001 must
   be nominated in this category and are not eligible to compete in the
   three Employee of the Year categories. 2002 EXCELLENCE IN FEDERAL
   GOVERNMENT AWARDS ENLISTED SERVICE MEMBER/MILITARY OFFICER OF THE YEAR
