http://carstad.gsfc.nasa.gov/topics/institute.html

              INSTIUTIONS, ORGANIZATIONS, and CONSULTANTS Page
   Under Construction



   This page will eventually contain a full listing of the institutions,
   organizations, and consultants having programs related to airborne
   remote sensing


   The following entries have been compiled from the World Wide Web. They
   have not been reviewed or edited. If they should be corrected or
   modified, please notify the webmaster.

   Mail to CARSTAD : carstad@staac-mail.gsfc.nasa.gov


   INSTITUTIONS

   Aero Geophysical Survey & Remote Sensing Center (AGRS) of the Ministry
   of Geology and Mineral Resources of China was set up in 1987 from the
   merger of Aero Geophysical Survey (AGS) and the Center for Remote
   Sensing in Geology (CRSG) , and is an organization specializing in the
   study, development and application of airborne geophysical surveying
   and remote sensing technology. The AGRS entered airborne geophysical
   surveying in 1956 and geological remote sensing in the early 1970's.
   http://agrszg.com/e_index.html

   A national program in remote sensing is coordinated by the Canada
   Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS) in cooperation with other agencies of
   the Government of Canada, provincial governments, industry and Canadian
   universities.
   http://www.ccrs.nrcan.gc.ca/

   The CEO Programme (Centre for Earth Observation) is a European
   initiative to encourage the wider use of information generated by Earth
   Observation satellites http://www.ceo.org/

   CENTER FOR EARTH OBSERVING AND SPACE RESEARCH  The Center for Earth
   Observing and Space Research (CEOSR) was established at George Mason
   University to provide a focus for research done from satellite
   platforms. A single unified entity to deal with research done from
   space platforms is the most effective type of center for this purpose.
   CEOSR is an interdisciplinary research center. As part of CSI, it
   serves the institute as a working group on space science Earth
   Observing/remote sensing projects and data information systems and
   provides needed infrastructure, including organizational and logistic
   support to research projects falling within the focus area. Through
   remote sensing, there are strong ties between the interests of CEOSR
   and the Global Change Track of the doctoral program with CSI. CEOSR
   focuses on both space and Earth observing projects.
   http://www.ceosr.gmu.edu/

   Chester F. Carlson Center for Imaging Science - Rochester Institute of
   Technology - Rochester, NY
   http://www.cis.rit.edu/

   Center for Remote Sensing, Inc. is a small, hi-tech organization which
   provides innovative and timely solutions in several areas of science
   and engineering. Our activities cover a broad spectrum of products,
   methodologies and applications involving Physics, Electrical,
   Electronics and Computer engineering, amongst others.
   http://www.centerforremotesensing.com/homepage.htm

   The Centre for Research in Earth and Space Technology (CRESTech)
   delivers research excellence to Canada's environmental, resource
   management, and space sectors. As a leading network for innovation,
   CRESTech is committed to developing marketable technology and
   contributing to the advancement of a sustainable economy.
   http://www.crestech.ca/index.html

   Commercial Remote Sensing for Earth Systems Science  at the University
   of Maryland, College Park
   CRESS began in late 1997 with funding from the NASA Stennis Space
   Center and the support of the University of Maryland, College Park. It
   is a joint project between the Department of Geography and the
   Department of Government & Politics.
   The purpose of CRESS is to analyze and facilitate the use of commercial
   terrestrial remote sensing products by the earth science community,
   which could benefit from the advent of new, very high resolution
   commercial data products. The goal of CRESS is to encourage the
   integration of commercial data in earth system science by (A)
   demonstrating the utility of such data through validation activities;
   (B) providing contacts to vendors and validation sites around the
   world; and (C) navigating the legal and policy issues of access and use
   of such data.
   http://www.inform.umd.edu/Geography/landcover/cress/index.htm

   The Commercial Remote Sensing Program at the NASA, Stennis Space Center
   http://www.crsp.ssc.nasa.gov/

   Research in remote sensing at CSR is an integrated effort involving
   applications of sensors to environmental problems and development of
   algorithms for extracting information from remotely sensed data
   acquired by space based and airborne platforms.
   http://www.csr.utexas.edu/rs/

   The Danish Center for Remote Sensing (DCRS) was established in February
   of 1994 on a grant of 50 million kroner from the Danish National
   Research Foundation (Danmarks Grundforskningsfond). It is part of and
   located at the Dept. of Electromagnetic Systems (EMI), the Technical
   University of Denmark (DTU). The centre conducts research relating to
   instruments for remote sensing and their application to Earth
   observation and Earth Science. DCRS research project presently includes
   technology demonstration programs relating to the implementation of
   next generation microwave remote sensing systems, processing of
   airborne and satellite SAR data, and the application of remote sensing
   for scientific applications and commercial mapping. http://www.dcrs.dk/

   Digital Imaging and Remote Sensing Laboratory (DIRS) Chester F. Carlson
   Center for Imaging Science - Rochester Institute of Technology -
   Rochester, NY
   http://www.cis.rit.edu/research/dirs/

   Earth Observations Lab / ISTS - Remote Sensing, BOREAS (Boreal
   Ecos-system Atmosphere Study) and CASI Compact Airborne Spectrographic
   Imager. http://www.eol.ists.ca/

   Institute for Environmental Studies (IVM)  Remote sensing at IVM.
   Remote sensing (earth observation from aircraft and satellites)
   measurements provide valuable information for all study areas and
   policy issues that have spatial aspects, such as climate change,
   coastal zone management, water quality management and (spatial)
   decision support. This work performed by the Remote Sensing Unit
   contributes to two of the main research topics of the institute:
   Measurement Techniques and Strategies and Analysis and Management of
   the Spatial Component of the Environment.
   http://www.vu.nl/IVM/research/rs/

   WELCOME to the Kansas Applied Remote Sensing (KARS) Program at the
   University of Kansas. The KARS Program is a research laboratory
   affiliated with the Kansas Biological Survey. Basic and applied
   research projects focus on techniques that enable public agencies and
   the private sector to better utilize data from satellite and airborne
   remote sensing systems in conjunction with geographic information
   systems (GIS). http://www.kars.ukans.edu/

   The European Microwave Signature Laboratory (EMSL) is designed for
   experiments in the field of radar signature research. It is a unique
   European facility which complements in-field, air- and space-borne
   radar measurements by providing stable and reproducible environmental
   conditions and operational modes for well controlled experiments of
   microwaves scattering. http://www.at.sai.jrc.it/lab&fac.htm

   Laboratory for Applications of Remote Sensing  LARS, a
   multidisciplinary research laboratory, involving the School of
   Agriculture, the School of Science and the Schools of Engineering was
   established in 1966 and is internationally known for its research
   efforts relating to remote sensing and more recently Geographic
   Information Systems.  Remote sensing and GIS technology research and
   development have been funded by the National Aeronautics and Space
   Administration, Department of Interior, U.S. Department of Agriculture,
   U.S. State Department, National Science Foundation as well as state
   agencies, private and international organizations.  Focusing on
   research to develop further the fundamental knowledge of the earth and
   its biophysical processes and to develop and improve techniques for
   analyzing and interpreting remotely sensed data from earth observation
   sensors. LARS is a laboratory within Purdue's Environmental Sciences
   and Engineering Institute.
   http://www.lars.purdue.edu/

   Nansen Environmental and Remote Sensing Centre   Nansen Environmental
   and Remote Sensing Center (NERSC) is a non-profit environmental
   research institute affiliated with the University of Bergen, Norway.
   The institute was founded in 1987 by scientists from the maritime
   remote sensing group of the Geophysical Institute, University of
   Bergen. The major goal of NERSC is to perform multi-disciplinary
   research with emphasis on remote sensing and numerical modelling of
   both the marine and terrestrial environment. Scientists at NERSC are
   engaged in a wide range of studies in the fields of sea ice, physical
   and biological oceanography, coastal management, climatology,
   meteorology, marine geodesy, geology and botany.
   http://www.neonet.nl/ceos-idn/datacenters/NERSC.html

   Welcome to the new AIRSAR web page. This new design was brought on-line
   in late September 1998, although we are still working on some parts of
   the page. This site includes a map server that allows you to browse and
   order AIRSAR data on-line. As we continue to develop this page, we will
   be populating this map server with the older AIRSAR datasets.
   http://airsar.jpl.nasa.gov/

   The National Operational Hydrologic Remote Sensing Center (NOHRSC) is
   the National Weather Service (NWS) center of expertise in satellite and
   airborne remote sensing and geographic information systems (GIS) used
   to support the NWS operational hydrology program for the Nation. The
   Center provides remotely sensed and GIS hydrology products, GIS
   applications and spatial data sets in format and time frame required to
   support various research, developmental and operational hydrology
   programs conducted at local, regional and national scales.
   http://www.nohrsc.nws.gov/

   The National Remote Sensing Centre is one of the world's leading
   providers of remotely-sensed information products and services. With
   access to global earth observing satellites and by drawing on its own
   aerial acquisition capability, NRSC can meet the demanding requirements
   of a diverse customer base.
   http://www.infoterra-global.com/  was
   http://www.nrsc.co.uk/default.html

   Airborne Remote Sensing Facility (Andrew Wilson)  Airborne remote
   sensing makes a significant contribution to environmental monitoring
   across the complete spectrum of NERC science, through use in its own
   right and in support and validation of satellite-based Earth
   Observation. NERC Scientific Services has recognised this contribution
   by supporting an Airborne Remote Sensing Facility (ARSF) since 1982,
   and running nearly annual campaigns for institute and academic
   researchers using its own Piper Chieftain aircraft and hired in optical
   scanners.
   http://www.soc.soton.ac.uk/RSADU/Airborne.html

   The Remote Sensing Applications Development Unit was the Natural
   Environment Research Council's contribution to British National Space
   Centre. In brief its mission was to facilitate the use of remotely
   sensed data both through the conduct of its own research and through
   the advice given to its parent bodies.
   http://www.soc.soton.ac.uk/RSADU/index.html

   The NERC Centre for Coastal and Marine Sciences (CCMS) undertakes
   fundamental and strategic research to underpin the marine requirements
   of the United Kingdom.
   http://www.npm.ac.uk/

   The Remote Sensing Applications Development Unit was the Natural
   Environment Research Council's contribution to British National Space
   Centre. In brief its mission was to facilitate the use of remotely
   sensed data both through the conduct of its own research and through
   the advice given to its parent bodies.
   http://www.soc.soton.ac.uk/JRD/SAT/RSADU/index.html

   Calibration: http://www.soc.soton.ac.uk/JRD/SAT/RSADU/Optical_Cal.html

   About the Remote Sensing Applications Center (Forest Service). The
   Remote Sensing Applications Center (RSAC), a detached unit of the
   Washington Office Engineering Staff, is located in Salt Lake City,
   Utah. RSAC is organized into four program areas to provide technology
   evaluation, development, and training support in the use of remote
   sensing, Geographic Information Systems, image processing, and Global
   Positioning Systems for all resource applications.
   http://svinet2.fs.fed.us/eng/remsense/rem/about.htm

   The Remote Sensing Group at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
   develops customized aerial and satellite monitoring and analysis
   techniques for environmental and national security applications.
   http://www.pnl.gov/remote/

   Remote Sensing Lab at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences.
   We are part of the forest resource management and geomatics department,
   and therefore, much of our work is concentrated on remote sensing of
   forests, with an emphasis on practical applications in forestry. The
   research within this field is focusing on methods that from a distance
   collect data about the forest. The main information sources are
   satellite- and aerial-imagery. Forest parameters are then compiled by
   combining... Department of Forest Resource Management and Geomatics,
   Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences S-901 83 Umeå Phone: +46 90
   786 58 00 Fax: +46 90 14 19 15 Email: Hakan.Olsson@resgeom.slu.se
   http://www.resgeom.slu.se/eng/fjarr/

   One of the main components of the MSCI Program is the Remote Sensing
   Research Institute,  the research component of the Mississippi Space
   Commerce Initiative
   http://www.spacecommerce.com/intro.html   and click on "Research"

   Simon Fraser University DEPARTMENT OF GEOGRAPHY Remote Sensing
   http://www.sfu.ca/rs/rspage.htm

   USDA Forest Service Engineering Remote Sensing Aerial Video
   http://www.fs.fed.us/eng/remsense/aerialvideo.htm


   ORGANIZATIONS

   American Society for Photogrammetry & Remote Sensing. 5410 Grosvenor
   Lane, Suite 210, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-2160. http://www.asprs.org/

   EARSeL is a scientific network of European remote sensing institutes,
   coming from both academia and the commercial/industrial sector.  EARSeL
   is unique in that it represents the interests of these institutes
   rather than individuals, although individual membership is possible
   (membership fees). Currently, there are about 300 member laboratories.

   ERIM International, Inc., is recognized world-wide as a leader in
   cutting-edge technologies related to imaging systems, information
   extraction and knowledge generation and dissemination. Based in Ann
   Arbor, Michigan, ERIM International operates with close ties to
   universities, government agencies, and industries. Regional offices in
   Washington, D.C., Dayton, Ohio, and northern Florida, provide on-site
   technical support. http://www.erim-int.com/

   The Universities Space Research Association was incorporated in 1969
   in the District of Columbia as a private nonprofit corporation under
   the
   auspices of the National Academy of Sciences. Institutional membership
   in the Association has grown from 49 colleges and universities when it
   was founded, to 85 in 2000. All member institutions have graduate
   programs
   in space sciences or aerospace engineering.  http://www.usra.edu/


   CONSULTANTS

   Kim-Geomatics are specialists in geomatics, remote sensing, space
   applications, and natural resource monitoring. To these fields we
   provide consulting to government, international agencies, and industry
   in: Program development and evaluation, International development,
   Strategic partnering, Commercialization, Marketing, and business
   development. http://www.kim-geomatics.com/Default.htm

   Pixel Physics was founded in 1999 by a group of highly experienced
   optics and engineering professionals. Our goal is to engage in
   partnerships with our clients to develop the advanced and innovative
   optical systems and imaging analysis algorithms.
   http://www.pixelphysics.com/


                              CARSTAD Home Page

            This page was last updated Tuesday, January 15, 2002
