http://www.anri.barc.usda.gov/ANRI-Links.htm

   USDA Animal and Natural Resources Institute, Agricultural Research
   Service

   To ANRI Home Page To Staff List You are at the ANRI Links Page To
   Information on Upcoming Meetings To BARC Home Page
   ANRI Links – Hold mouse over Use bullet to left of link for a
   description of the link

   Remote access to the LPSI e-mail system.
   Web Mail

   Top of Page Databases

   Citations to agricultural literature created by the National
   Agricultural Library and its cooperators. Agricola

   Information for improved animal care and use in research, teaching, and
   testing. Animal Welfare Information Center

   Database (with tutorial), conference information, and online
   publications. ARS Genome

   Moderated discussion group devoted to all scientific aspects of
   mammalian embryology. EmbryoMail Database

   Cattle Genome Mapping Project Gene Mapping Information

   Information in various sub-fields, including veterinary medicine. Med
   Bioscience

   An alphabetical listing of employees, city and telephone number REE
   (ARS) Employee Database

   Information about parasites using such criteria as parasite group, host
   species, and geographic locality. Search Parasite Database

   Gene Mapping service provided by USDA/ARS/MARC Swine, Sheep, and Cattle

   Find the latest research information. United States National Dairy
   Database


   Top of Page Associations and Organizations

   Private nonprofit organization that promotes the humane treatment of
   animals in science through a voluntary accreditation program. AAALAC –
   Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care

   Over 650 courses in personal and career development AALAS – American
   Association for Laboratory Animal Science

   Information about publications, activities, and programs. American
   Society of Animal Science

   Information about the Association, annual meeting, and online version
   of the Journal of Dairy Science. The American Dairy Science Association

   Information about the American Geophysical Union (AGU), Hydrology
   Section The American Geophysical Union (AGU), Hydrology Section

   Information about the Society The American Society of Agronomy

   Information about the Society The American Society of Agricultural
   Engineers (ASAE)

   Allows online submission of articles for publication. Domestic Animal
   Endocrinology

   Information on publications and upcoming meetings The Poultry Science
   Association

   Information about the Society Society of Environmental Toxicology and
   Chemistry

   Information about the Society Soil Science Society of America (SSSA)

   Mark Varner's homepage containing information on dairy sciences in
   Maryland. UMD Dairy


   Top of Page U.S. Government Links

   The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service APHIS - Animal and Plant
   Health Inspection Service

   Principal research agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ARS –
   Agricultural Research Service

   Information about the Agency The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

   Access to many of the library’s resources. National Agriculture Library

   Information about the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)

   Information about the Natural Resources Conservation Service The
   Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)

   Information resources of the agencies. REE - Research, Education, and
   Economics agencies

   Information about the Association, annual meeting, and online version
   of the Journal of Dairy Science. The U.S. Geological Survey

   Serving all Americans who farm as well as everyone who eats, wears
   clothes, lives in a house, or visits a rural area or a national forest.
   USDA – United States Department of Agriculture


   Top of Page Information Sites

   Science source for food, agriculture, and environmentlal issues. CAST

   Access to program information and employment opportunities. National
   Visitor Center Page

   Daily updates on developments in the agricultural world, as well access
   to their online publications. News and Information

   Agricultural research site broken down into categories such as
   commercial sites, libraries, and discussion groups. Not Just Cows

   Text of the organization’s quarterly updates (beginning with the April
   1995 edition) online. ARS Food and Nutrition Briefs Newsletter

   Providing information for improved animal care and use in research,
   teaching, and testing. Animal Welfare Information Act
