http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories/s419.htm


     NOAA News || NOAA Home Page

        NEW WEATHER RESEARCH SUPERCOMPUTER WILL IMPROVE FUTURE FORECASTS

     NOAA Supercomputer April 26, 2000 — It looks like stacks of never
   ending metal boxes, or maybe like storage lockers at an airport. But in
   reality, it's JET, one of the fastest weather research supercomputers
   in the world and an exciting step forward for NOAA's Forecast Systems
   Laboratory in Boulder, Colo. (Click image for larger view.)

   Recently installed and tested, the supercomputer was designed and built
   entirely using the LINUX operating system. It will assist researchers
   in improving existing weather forecast models and in developing new
   ones.

   "Ocean and meteorological models require a tremendous amount of
   computing power," says A. E. (Sandy) MacDonald, director of NOAA's
   Forecast Systems Laboratory. "This high performance computing system
   enables us to process large amounts of data so we can run these weather
   models of the future."

   One high-resolution short-term weather forecast model FSL will be
   testing is the Weather Research and Forecast Model, a collaborative
   effort with NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Prediction, the
   National Center for Atmospheric Research, and various universities.
   "The WRF model is a shorter range forecast model that will be better,
   faster and more accurate than anything we have available at the present
   time," said MacDonald.
   Developed by High Performance Technologies, Inc. of Arlington, Va., the
   high performance computing system presently runs one third of a
   trillion arithmetic computations per second at the present time, a
   computing system 20 times more powerful than FSL's previous computer
   capability. By the year 2002, the HPTi supercomputer will be capable of
   processing in excess of 5 trillion arithmetic operations per second.

   HPTi has extensive experience in dealing with large, complex and fast
   computing systems. "We are very excited at being able to provide this
   new system to FSL," says Don Fitzpatrick, president and CEO of HPTi.
   "FSL has a tradition of using high performance computing in innovative
   ways for weather forecasting research which matches very well with our
   ability to provide unique solutions using some of the newest
   technologies such as Linux, the Alpha processor and the Myricom
   interconnect."

   The supercomputing system has been developed by HPTi in cooperation
   with its four core teammates, Compaq Computer Corporation, Patuxent
   Technology Partners, the University of Virginia, and Myricom. Compaq is
   providing the Alpha processors, which are the core computational
   components, PTP is providing an integrated storage solution from its
   background in Storage Area Networks, and the University of Virginia
   will focus on the application of advanced cluster technologies. Myricom
   is the provider of the ‘interconnect' that enables the high performance
   processors to talk to each other simultaneously.
   "The interconnect between computers is a really crucial ingredient,"
   says MacDonald. "It's like having phone lines between the computers and
   it needs to be extremely fast."

   One project that will derive great benefit from the acquisition of the
   HPTi supercomputer is the North American Atmospheric Observing System,
   or NAOS, which is a program to design an improved upper-air observing
   system for the next century. The accuracy of current weather forecasts
   is limited to a great extent by incomplete knowledge of current
   conditions. The high performance supercomputer will allow scientists to
   conduct experiments with computer forecast models to optimize the
   design of future atmospheric observing networks with respect to cost
   and forecast accuracy. MacDonald says "Now we can use the computer to
   tell us what the best design for the observing system of the future
   will be."

   MacDonald says that 40 percent of the new computer system will be used
   for weather prediction models, 40 per cent for NAOS, and the remaining
   20 percent will be available for other NOAA research labs to use for
   developing ocean models and other modeling efforts.
   Relevant Web Sites:
   NOAA's Forecast Systems Lab, Boulder, Colo.
   High Performance Technologies, Inc. of Arlington, Va. (HPTi)
   NOAA in Boulder, Colo.
   NOAA Media Contacts:
   Barbara McGehan, NOAA Research, (303) 497-6288.
