http://nevada.usgs.gov/nawqa/index_new.shtm

   USGS Visual Identity banner
   Water Resources of Nevada

   Nevada Basin and Range

   Project Activities
   Team Members
   Publications
   Data
   Map Products
   Circular 1170
   Photo Gallery
   National NAWQA

   Program Details
   National Synthesis
   Data Warehouse
   Digital Map Products
   Glossary
   For Further Information, contact:
   Michael Rosen
   USGS, WRD
   333 W. Nye Lane
   Carson City, NV 89706
   Email: mrosen@usgs.gov
   Phone: (775) 887-7600

                  National Water-Quality Assessment Program
                           Nevada Basin and Range
                                 Study Unit



   The Nevada Basin and Range (NVBR) study unit includes three
   hydrographic basins and adjacent areas: (1) the Las Vegas Valley area,
   (2) the Carson River Basin, and (3) the Truckee River Basin. The Las
   Vegas Valley area is in southern Nevada and the Carson and Truckee
   River Basins are in northwestern Nevada and northeastern California.
   The basins were selected for investigation because they (1) contain
   more than 90 percent of Nevada's population; (2) include geologic
   features, climate, vegetation, and hydrology representative of Basin
   and Range physiography; (3) include areas where rapid urban and
   suburban population growth has increased competition for limited water
   supplies; and (4) contain various natural- and human-caused
   water-quality problems. Map of the Nevada Basin and Range Study area

                   Nevada Basin and Range Program Approach

   During Cycle 1 of NAWQA (1992-96), most of the program's emphasis was
   on characterizing the status of water quality. During Cycle II, most of
   the program's emphasis will be on trends and understanding factors that
   affect water quality. To describe trends, surface-water sites that have
   been monitored since Cycle I will continue to be monitored. Sub-unit
   surveys and land-use surveys will be re-sampled to characterize decadal
   changes in ground-water quality. In addition, lakes and reservoirs will
   be cored to characterize trends in the deposition of hydrophobic
   contaminants. The goal of understanding will focus on 3 topics that are
   important in the NVBR study unit: contaminant transport to public
   supply wells, effects of urbanization on streams, and transport and
   bioaccumulation of mercury. An extra year of intensive data collection
   is planned for the first group of Cycle II study units to develop
   approaches for these topics. Status and trends work will be
   front-loaded in the first year of Cycle II, and topics will be worked
   on during the remaining years of the high-intensity phase.

                The National Water-Quality Assessment Program

   The National Water-Quality Assessment (NAWQA) Program of the U.S.
   Geological Survey (USGS) is the primary source of long-term, nationwide
   information on the quality of streams, ground water, and aquatic
   ecosystems.
   In more than 50 major river basins and aquifers across the nation, USGS
   scientists collect and assess information on water chemistry,
   hydrology, land use, stream habitat, and aquatic life. Map of the study
   areas in the National Water-Quality Assessment Program

   home || water data || water-related activities || publications || news
   || information || ask us

   USGS: Water || Biology || Geology || Mapping
   U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey
   Contact: Nevada District Web Team
   Last Modified: July 5, 2001
   Privacy Statement || Disclaimer
