http://rsac.fra.dot.gov/about.htm

                                 ABOUT RSAC

   RSAC HISTORY

   In 1996, FRA established the Railroad Safety Advisory Committee (RSAC)
   to develop new regulatory standards, through a collaborative process,
   with all segments of the rail community working together to fashion
   mutually satisfactory solutions on safety regulatory issues.

   First RSAC (April 1996) and Second RSAC (July 1996) Tasks:
     * Revisions to Freight Power Brake Regulations
     * Revisions to Track Safety Standards
     * Revisions to Railroad Communications
     * Regulations Governing Tourist, Excursion, Scenic and Historic
       Services
     * Revisions to Steam-Powered Locomotive Inspection Standards

                                RSAC PURPOSE

   The Committee shall seek agreement on the facts and data underlying any
   real or perceived safety problems; identify cost effective solutions
   based on the agreed-upon facts; and identify regulatory options where
   necessary to implement those solutions.  In determining whether
   regulations are necessary, the Committee shall take into account
   section 1(a) of Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review).

                         RSAC REGULATORY Philosophy

   Federal agencies should promulgate only such regulations as are
   required by law, are necessary to interpret the law, or are made
   necessary by compelling public need, such as material failures of
   private markets to protect or improve the health and safety of the
   public, the environment, or the well-being of the American people.  In
   deciding whether and how to regulate, agencies should assess all costs
   and benefits of available regulatory alternatives, including the
   alternative of not regulating.  Costs and benefits shall be understood
   to include both quantifiable measures (to the fullest extent that these
   can be usefully estimated) and qualitative measures of costs and
   benefits that are difficult to quantify, but nevertheless essential to
   consider.  Further, in choosing among alternative regulatory
   approaches, agencies should select those approaches that maximize net
   benefits (including potential economic, environmental, public health
   and safety, and other advantages; distributive impacts; and equity),
   unless a statute requires another regulatory approach.

   The resultant rules must be reasonable, clear, effective, and
   enforceable; impose as small a burden as is practicable; and shall, to
   the extent feasible, specify performance objectives, rather than
   specifying the behavior or manner of compliance that regulated entities
   must adopt.

   The RSAC will provide advice and recommendations to the Federal
   Railroad Administration (FRA) regarding the development of the railroad
   safety regulatory program, including issuance of new regulations,
   review and revision of existing regulations, and identification of
   non-regulatory alternatives for improvement of railroad safety.  Of
   course, the RSAC’s own resource limitations will not permit FRA to
   refer every safety regulatory task to the RSAC.  Moreover, on occasion,
   the need to address a safety issue in a very expedited way will
   preclude such a referral.

   It is FRA’s policy to utilize consensus recommendations of the RSAC as
   the basis of proposed and final agency action, whenever possible,
   consistent with applicable law, including guidance from the President.
   In considering whether to adopt RSAC recommendations, the Administrator
   weighs the interests of the public at large and the ability of the
   agency to administer, and, if necessary, to enforce, any requirements
   that would result from final agency action.

   FRA will consult with the RSAC on a periodic basis regarding the
   development of its regulatory program, advising the RSAC of emerging
   issues, statutory requirements, and other identified needs.  It is the
   intent of the FRA to consider the views of RSAC members in determining
   regulatory priorities.

   The RSAC provides advice and recommendations on specific tasks assigned
   to it by FRA.  Whenever possible, FRA will consult with the RSAC prior
   to assigning a task to the committee.  As each task is assigned, the
   RSAC may elect to accept or reject the task, or to recommend that the
   task be restructured.  When a task is assigned, FRA sets a target date
   for the presentation of the RSAC’s recommendations to the
   Administrator.  The target date is based on consultation with the RSAC
   and may be adjusted by FRA based on further consultation.   FRA may
   withdraw a task from the RSAC at any time.  FRA will provide the RSAC
   an explanation when it does so.
