http://www.usdoj.gov/disputeresolution.htm

   c USDOJ Seal U.S. Department of Justice
       HOMEPAGE    |     CONTACT US    |     PRIVACY NOTICE    |     SITE
   MAP    |     SEARCH

   Dispute Resolution
   gold bar with blue star
   Community Dispute Resolution

   The Department promotes the use of community dispute resolution in a
   variety of community settings and coordinates a range of conflict
   resolution activities. Community dispute resolution uses a
   problem-solving approach to resolve conflict and seeks to teach young
   people and professionals the skills of getting along. The Department
   supports community dispute resolution practice and research which has
   developed within school systems, law enforcement agencies, criminal
   justice institutions, and communities. The goals are to foster mutual
   respect between police and communities, to provide young people with
   the skills to resolve arguments peacefully, to encourage partnerships
   that build on diversity, to prevent crimes of hate and bias, to offer
   victim-offender and community mediation, and to engage greater citizen
   participation in local decision-making. Learn more about these
   resources by visiting the Community Dispute Resolution site.

   Get Help for Your Community
   The Community Relations Service (CRS) is the Department's "peacemaker"
   for community conflicts and tensions arising from differences of race,
   color, and national origin. CRS helps local communities resolve serious
   racial and ethnic conflicts. Its services are provided to local
   officials and leaders by trained federal mediators on a voluntary and
   cost-free basis. The kinds of assistance available from CRS include
   mediation of disputes and conflicts, training in conflict resolution
   skills, and help in developing ways to prevent and resolve conflicts.
   Contact your CRS regional office for help in your community.

     Publications that can assist individuals and communities deal with
     problem situations can be found on the CRS site.


   Americans with Disabilities Act Mediation

   Many Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) disputes can be resolved
   successfully through informal methods. Through its ADA Mediation
   Program, the Department refers appropriate ADA disputes to mediators at
   no cost to the parties. The mediators in the Department of Justice
   program are professional mediators who have been trained in the legal
   requirements of the ADA. If you want to work with a mediator and the
   other party to resolve an ADA dispute through the Department's program,
   you can follow the usual procedure for filing a complaint (title II
   (public entities), title III (private entities)) with the Department
   and note on the complaint that you want to take your dispute to
   mediation. While we cannot guarantee that everyone who wants mediation
   will be able to participate in the program, the Department will make
   every effort to comply with requests for mediation.

   Office of Dispute Resolution

   The Office of Dispute Resolution coordinates the use of Alternative
   Dispute Resolution (ADR) for the Department of Justice. The office is
   responsible for ADR policy matters, ADR training, assisting lawyers in
   selecting the right cases for dispute resolution, and finding
   appropriate neutrals to serve as mediators, arbitrators, and neutral
   evaluators. The office also coordinates the Interagency ADR Working
   Group, an organization that promotes the use of ADR throughout federal
   executive branch agencies, which was created by the President and is
   chaired by the Attorney General.

   For more information about the Department components that are most
   active in this area, consult the Community Relations Service (CRS),
   Community Dispute Resolution, and Office of Dispute Resolution web
   sites.


     Last Updated: 08/16/01


                                               Information for Individuals
                                                     and Communities


                           * Consumer Fraud
                           * Disabilities
                           * Discrimination
                           * Dispute Resolution
                           * Domestic Violence
                           * Elder Justice
                           * Immigration Information
                           * Prison & Parole Information
                           * Safe Communities
                           * Youth Violence
                           * Victims of Crime
