http://esdcd.gsfc.nasa.gov/ESDCD/Rules.html

   [home.gif]

   V.1

   930 Earth and Space Data Computing Division

   Computer User's Rules of Behavior

   These guidelines apply to all individuals who use information
   technology (IT) resources operated by the Earth and Space Data
   Computing Division (Code 930) of the Goddard Space Flight Center. This
   includes but is not limited to use of personal computers, workstations,
   access to ESDCD accounts and computer networks.

   The purpose of these guidelines is to increase individual awareness and
   responsibility and to ensure that all users use the Center's IT
   resources in an efficient, ethical, and lawful manner.

   Account and Access Control Management

   Users shall only use accounts for which they are authorized. Users
   shall not divulge account access procedures to any unauthorized user.
   Files are owned by specific accounts, and file sharing is controlled by
   file ownership and permissions set by the account user.

   A user is responsible for protecting and maintaining, to the best of
   his/her ability, any information used or stored in his/her accounts. A
   user shall not attempt to access any data or programs contained on
   systems for which he/she is not authorized nor have explicit consent of
   the data/program owner. To further restrict access to your account, if
   you leave your computer for a period of time, either log out of your
   account or have screen lock running to prevent unauthorized use of your
   account. Lock your office door after hours.

   Assignment and Limitation of System Privileges

   In Code 930, for project computers, system privileges are limited to
   system administrators and the project technical leader. For individual
   workstations, system privileges should be limited to system
   administrators and the workstation owner.

   The system administrator is responsible for granting system privileges.
   The user will contact his/her system administrator for additional
   computing resources or privileges needed to access applications and
   data. When a user no longer requires access to these IT resources,
   he/she will notify appropriate responsible parties, and make no further
   attempt to access these resources.

   Password Management

   To ensure more secure passwords, the following guidelines should be
   applied: password length should be a minimum of 8 alphanumeric
   characters and include at least one special character (e.g., $, !, #).
   Your password should not be a word that can be found in any dictionary,
   or even a word spelled in reverse. Your password should not be the same
   as your userid. One good practice is to make a password by using the
   first letter of each word of a sentence or a phrase and also add in
   some special characters. Make an effort to memorize your passwords
   instead of writing them down. Users shall not share their password with
   others. Users are strongly encouraged to use different passwords for
   each unique machine,
   and for each unique organization (e.g. GSFC organizations, university
   accounts, private Internet Service Provider).

   Users are encouraged to change their passwords regularly for all
   systems on which you have accounts. You should change your password a
   maximum of every 90 days and do not use the same password twice. On
   some, but not all systems at GSFC, passwords are set to expire after an
   allotted period of time, forcing the user to reset their password. If
   you are not sure if there is a required password reset period check
   with the system administrator for your specific system. The Code 930
   system administrators run the CRACK software to determine if user
   passwords can be "cracked". All users are required to change their
   passwords if passwords have been cracked. You will be notified by the
   system administrator if this is the case.

   Authorized Use of Government Equipment

   Government resources (e.g. computer equipment, networks, etc.) and
   electronic communication facilities (such as e-mail or web browsers)
   are for authorized Government use only. See related GSFC policies:

   * Authorized Use of Computers and Computing Resources

   * Authorized Use of the Internet, the World Wide Web (WWW) and Related
   Internet Services

   * GSFC Chief Information Officer policies

   These can be found on the Web at URL:
   http://cne.gsfc.nasa.gov/IROC/cio/gsfc/gsfccio.html

   By virtue of the fact that these are government computers for official
   government use, users consent to monitoring and security testing to
   ensure proper security procedures and appropriate usage are being
   observed for Center IT resources.

   Proper Use of Copyrighted Software

   System administrators ensure that workstations have valid software
   licenses. Users are responsible for the valid licensing of software on
   their personal computers. Users shall not make or use unauthorized
   copies of copyrighted software, except as permitted by law or by the
   owner of the copyright. Individual users are responsible for validating
   software downloaded or installed before use, and for maintaining an
   inventory of software they download or install.

   Anti-virus Software

   Personal computer users are required to regularly run anti-virus
   software on their machine. GSFC has a site license for MacAfee
   anti-virus software for PCs and Macs; it is available for download at
   http://pivo.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/. Please check with your branch head
   for the username and password. Downloads through this account are
   intended for Code 930 civil servants and contractors supporting Code
   930.

   Reporting of IT Security Incidents

   Users are required to report all observed compromises of IT security
   (viruses, unauthorized access, theft, inappropriate use, etc.) to the
   system administrator of their system. Call or visit the
   system administrator; do not send clear text email. If a system
   administrator is not available, the user's manager should be informed.
   The system administrators will inform the 930 DPI/ITSO, and their
   management. The DPI/ITSO will inform the Center Information Technology
   Security Manager (C-ITSM), and the NASA Automated Systems Incident
   Response Capability (NASIRC), if appropriate. If NASIRC is involved,
   the system administrators will get clearance from NASIRC before taking
   any action, and may power the machine off if the situation warrants.
   For more information on NASIRC services, see the NASIRC Incident
   Response Web page at URL: http://www-nasirc.nasa.gov/nasa/index.html.

   Computer Security Patches

   System administrators should notify the DPI/ITSO if they would like to
   be on the distribution list for NASIRC computer security announcements.
   Computer security announcements will be distributed to system
   administrators in a timely manner. Patches are to be installed as
   quickly as possible depending on the urgency of the security hole, and
   on the priority of the security violation, and on the existing high
   priority work of the system administrator.

   Restoration of Service

   Users should notify system administrators of any unusual event or
   potential problem. The Code 930 Contingency Plan addresses possible
   disasters and the appropriate response by system administrators and
   managers. Good backups also mitigate some of the risk.

   Backup Procedures

   Users should be aware that most UNIX file systems are regularly backed
   up by the system administrators. Contact your system administrator if
   you have a question about the backup status or schedule for your
   particular computer or file system. Personal computer disk backups are
   the responsibility of the user.

   Consequences of Behavior Inconsistent with the Rules

   Security incidents are handled by the system administrator, Data
   Processing Installation- Information Technology Security Official
   (DPI-ITSO) or by management, as appropriate. Examples of consequences
   include, but are not limited to the following: A machine using the
   wrong IP address may be disconnected from the network. A network
   segment with a serious computer security incident may be disconnected
   at the Building router level. Ethics violations may result in personnel
   actions being taken, depending on the gravity of the situation. A user
   may have restricted access to resources, if warranted. Failure to abide
   by NASA, GSFC, and ESDCD policies may constitute grounds for
   termination of access privileges, administrative action, and/or civil
   or criminal prosecution.

   Handling of Sensitive Information

   All systems in the ESDCD are considered unclassified systems;
   therefore, classified information may not be processed, entered, or
   stored on ESDCD computers. Information is considered "classified", if
   it has been designed Top Secret, Secret, or Confidential Information
   which requires safeguarding in the interest of National security.
   However, it's likely at some point you will handle information
   considered sensitive. Sensitive information
   includes "For Official Use Only", SEB, Privacy Act, Procurement
   Sensitive or proprietary information. Sensitive information and
   licensed software are to be removed by the user from any systems before
   they are sent out for repair, if possible. When discarding, paper
   copies of sensitive information are to be shredded, and sensitive
   information on disks or diskettes is to be erased. Diskettes or
   documents containing sensitive information should be clearly labeled as
   such. Diskettes with sensitive information are to be stored in locked
   containers when not in use or when you leave your work area.

   Disposal of IT Resources

   Sensitive information (including copyrighted software, personnel
   information, proprietary scientific data) is to be removed from
   hardware devices prior to excessing, or prior to transferring ownership
   of those devices unless the information/software is specifically
   included in the transfer. Users are to notify their property manager of
   any IT resource to be excessed, moved or reassigned to another
   employee. For more information on the GSFC policy, see CIO Notice 98-01
   at URL: http://cne.gsfc.nasa.gov/IROC/cio/gsfc/removing.data.html

   Physical Security

   Users should lock their office when they leave for an extended period
   of time. Users have a right to ask for a badge or other identification
   for unknown personnel located in their work areas. If you leave your
   computer for an extended period of time, close files and log out of
   accounts. For added security, run screen lock or another screen
   password protected program

   Electronic Communications/Connection to the Internet

   Users may contact the CNE through their web page to request an e-mail
   (POP) account or to use the automated system to request, change, or
   delete their IP address. The CNE URL is: http://cne.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Electronic communications are for authorized government purposes only.
   Users are expected to abide by the same ethical standards for using
   government resources as you would when using any other communications
   medium (e.g.,phone, facsimile, etc). Users are not to engage in
   activities using email or internet connections that could be considered
   harassing or that would deprive others of authorized access to network
   resources.

   Limits on System Interconnection

   For access to multi-user systems, users are generally required to
   invoke the login process (userid/password). For some systems, users are
   allowed to have .rhosts files that allow them to login to remote
   machines without needing a password. System administrators strongly
   encourage people to only list local machines in their .rhosts file.
   Check with the system administrator for the policy for your specific
   system. The use of one-time passwords and of Secure Shell (SSH) are
   encouraged by the system administrators.

   Web Security Guidelines

   Organizations shall limit the number of Web servers, where practical,
   to reduce the security risks. System administrators will follow
   recommended procedures for installing secure Web
   servers, and will install critical security patches in a timely manner.
   (At this writing, there is a policy in development on use of web
   servers in the ESDCD.) Web pages should abide by GSFC policy, and
   include footers with the page author, government monitor and date of
   last update. For more information on web policies and web security
   information, see the GSFC Policy and Responsibilities for the Use of
   the World Wide Web (WWW) Technology at URL:
   http://cne.gsfc.nasa.gov/IROC/cio/gsfc/gsfc.web.policy.html, and the
   CNE World Wide Web Security pages at
   http://cne.gsfc.nasa.gov/web/security.html.

   Dial-In Access

   Dial-In access is possible through the ROLM dial-in lines in concert
   with local Code 930 terminal servers, or through the CNE Annex
   facility, or via private Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Only a
   valid user (i.e. one with an account and password) can log in to Code
   930 machines through a dial-in internet service (terminal servers, CNE
   Annex, or ISPs). These computer accounts are authorized and granted by
   the Earth and Space Data Computing Division (ESDCD) Government
   personnel in conjunction with the CNE.

   The CNE Project purchased the Annex to provide GSFC personnel with a
   means to connect to the Goddard network from home or while on travel.
   Its intent is to allow users a method of checking mail and doing other
   minor network related work from home or while on travel. Accounts are
   not transferable. Misuse by the Annex account user or usage by a person
   other than the authorized user may result in the user's dial-up
   privileges being revoked.

   The current policy is that users should not exceed 2 hours per
   connection, up to 4 hours a day on the local number and 2 hours a day
   on the 1-800 number. For more information about CNE policies and usage
   restrictions, check the CNE web site at URL:
   http://cne.gsfc.nasa.gov/dialup/dialup.html. CNE policies may be
   modified once the GSFC Telecommuting Policy is established.

   Work at Home

   Users working from home shall abide by the dial-in access computer
   security rules of behavior. If they have government related files on
   their home computers, they shall make adequate backups of these files.
   Users must use authorized procedures for handling and storing sensitive
   information (including Privacy Act, Classified, or Confidential
   information). Employees who telecommute will follow any additional
   Telecommuting Computer Security Guidelines.

   A user will get a property pass from the property custodian before
   taking home any government owned equipment. The user will use this
   equipment for government-related business only.

   Contacts:

   930 DPI/ITSO - Pat Gary, x6-9539
   930 Deputy DPI/ITSO - L. Foster, x6-5545
   C-ITSM - Hank Middleton, x-6-7233
   Last Revised: 6 July 1998
