http://www2.bfrl.nist.gov/profiles/profiles.asp?lastname=reed&firstname=kent

   . . . . . . . . . . .
   BFRL Staff | Kent A. Reed
   . Link to NIST .
   .
   Link to Home Link to Research Areas Link to BFRL Publications Link to
   BFRL Software Link to BFRL Staff Information Link to Contact
   Information Link to Ask the Experts Section .

                     Contact Info.   Contact Information

   Photograph of Kent Reed   Dr. Reed coordinates the planning and
   execution of projects across BFRL that support the technical and
   business objectives of the BFRL Major Product on the Computer
   Integrated Construction Environment. These projects cover work on
   information representation, sharing, and exchange in his own group as
   well as wok on construction metrology and automation, electronic
   commerce of technical data, and supporting business cases.
   Dr. Reed is responsible for planning and executing projects in the
   Computer Integrated Construction Group that support the objectives of
   the similarly titled BFRL Major Product. Projects have included the
   analysis, synthesis, and expression of codes and standards, development
   of protocols for exchanging graphical and nongraphical information
   about buildings and facilities, and development of knowledge-based
   expert systems.
   Current work in the group focuses on product data representation,
   sharing, and exchange, principally through technical and committee work
   in support of the ISO TC184/SC4 standard called STEP---Standard for the
   Exchange of Product Model Data. Major industrial collaborations have
   included the U.S. Navy/Industry Digital Data Exchange Standards
   Committee and the PlantSTEP, Inc. consortium of U.S. process plant
   owner/operators, engineering and construction companies, and
   information technology providers. The newest industrial collaboration
   is with the International Alliance for Interoperability.
   Dr. Reed joined the National Bureau of Standards as a Supervisory
   Mechanical Engineer in the Building Equipment Division, Center for
   Building Technology, in January 1981. During his first three and a half
   years at NBS, Dr. Reed was the leader of the Solar Energy Group. Before
   joining NBS, Dr. Reed was a staff scientist in the Solar Energy Groupat
   the Argonne National Laboratory. He participated in and then led a
   project to develop and commercialize nonimaging concentrating
   collectors for solar heating and cooling of buildings.
   Dr. Reed is a member of ASTM, the American Physical Society, the CADD
   Council and the Facility Operation and Maintenance Committee of the
   National Institute of Building Sciences, and the North American Chapter
   of the International Alliance for Interoperability. He participates in
   Research Teams of the Construction Industry Institute. From 1984
   through 1986, he served first as secretary and then as co-chairman of
   the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction Committee of the
   IGES/PDES Organization. He was the IGES Editor for Versions 4.0, 5.0,
   and 5.1. He participates in committees of ASTM and ISO TC184/SC4 as
   needed for delivering project results.


Kent A. Reed

Education

   The College of Wooster, B.A., Physics, 1966 The University of Chicago,
   M.S., Physics, 1968 The University of Chicago, Ph.D., Physics, 1976

Position

   Leader
   Computer Integrated Construction Group
   Building Environment Division
   Building and Fire Research Laboratory

                                Graphic Rule

     Privacy Statement/Security Notice  |  Disclaimer  |  FOIA

   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.

   Link to NIST Centennial Site
                                                                 BFRL Logo

                           Date created: 3/21/2001
                           Last updated: 5/7/2001
