http://www.alnd.uscourts.gov/Jury%20Selection%20Plan%20v.7a.pdf

   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA PLAN FOR
   RANDOM SELECTION OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS The following plan was
   adopted November 2, 2000, by this court pursuant to the Jury Selection
   and Service Act of 1968, as amended, 28 U.S.C. § 1861 et seq., and
   subject to such rules and regulations as may be adopted from time to
   time by the Judicial Conference of the United States. I. APPLICABILITY
   OF THE PLAN Jury Divisional Areas The Northern District of Alabama
   encompasses thirty-one counties divided among seven divisions, defined
   by 28 U.S.C. § 81(a). For purposes of the Plan, the court shall be
   divided into the following four combinations of divisions, herein
   referred to as "Divisional Areas." A. Jury Area I, the "Northern
   Divisional Area," consists of the Northeastern and Northwestern
   divisions. Jury Area I encompasses Colbert, Franklin, Lauderdale,
   Cullman, Jackson, Lawrence, Limestone, Madison, and Morgan counties. B.
   Jury Area II, the "Eastern Divisional Area," consists of the Eastern
   and Middle divisions. Jury Area II encompasses Calhoun, Clay, Cleburne,
   Talladega, Cherokee, De Kalb, Etowah, Marshall, and Saint Clair
   counties; C. Jury Area III, the "Central Divisional Area," consists of
   the Southern division. Jury Area III encompasses Blount, Jefferson, and
   Shelby counties; D. Jury Area IV, the "Western Divisional Area,"
   consists of the Western and Jasper divisions. Jury Area IV encompasses
   Fayette, Lamar, Marion, Walker, Winston, Bibb, Greene, Pickens, Sumter,
   and Tuscaloosa counties. II. POLICIES AND INTERPRETATION OF PLAN It is
   the policy of this court that all litigants entitled to trial by jury
   shall have the right to juries selected at random from a fair
   cross-section of the community in the Divisional Area wherein the court
   convenes. It also is a policy of this court that all qualified citizens
   within the district shall have the opportunity to be considered for
   service on the juries of this court, 1 and shall have a corresponding
   obligation to serve as jurors when summoned for that purpose. Further,
   no citizen shall be excluded from service as a grand or petit juror in
   this court because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
   origin, or economic status. The court has determined that computers and
   electronic data processing programs can be advantageously used, and are
   superior to manual methods, for establishing master and qualified jury
   wheels, qualifying jurors, randomly selecting grand and petit jurors,
   maintaining juror records, and automating jury clerical work.
   Accordingly, all references in this plan to "master jury wheels,"
   "qualified jury wheels," or similar phrases shall be interpreted to
   mean a properly programmed electronic data processing system or device
   for retrieving and processing information stored in electronic database
   media. Further, all references in this plan to "random selection" or
   similar phrases shall be interpreted to mean the selection of names of
   prospective jurors from complete source databases in electronic media
   by a purely randomized process through a properly programmed electronic
   data processing system designed to ensure that each county within the
   district or divisional area is substantially proportionally
   represented; that the mathematical odds of any single name being
   selected are substantially equalized; and, that the possibility of
   human discretion or choice affecting the selection of any person's name
   is eliminated. III. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION OF THE PLAN The clerk of
   the court shall manage the jury selection process under the supervision
   and control of the chief judge or, during his or her absence,
   disability, or inability to act, the district judge who is present in
   the district and who has been in regular active service the greatest
   length of time. In performing the duties assigned under this plan, the
   clerk may utilize the services of jury clerks, deputy clerks, and
   non-court personnel employed by computer service centers authorized by
   the court. IV. ESTABLISHMENT OF JURY WHEELS A. Source Lists The names
   of persons to be considered for service as grand or petit jurors shall
   be randomly selected from official voter registration lists maintained
   by the State of Alabama or local election officials of the counties
   comprising the district for the most recent federal general election
   held in the fall of even-numbered years. The clerk shall secure such
   lists from appropriate State or county officials in the form of
   electronic database media, compensating the State or counties at the
   rates required by Alabama law. 2 B. Master Jury Wheels The clerk shall
   maintain a master jury wheel for each Divisional Area in the district.
   The initial random selection of persons for inclusion in each master
   wheel shall be made as soon as practicable following approval of this
   plan by a reviewing panel of the Judicial Council of the Eleventh
   Circuit The number of names to be initially placed in each master wheel
   shall be determined by multiplying the constant 60,000 by a factor
   derived by comparing the total number of registered voters residing in
   those counties composing a particular Divisional Area on the date of
   the most recent federal general election held in the fall of
   even-numbered years to the aggregate number of registered voters
   residing in the Northern District as a whole during the same election,
   but in no event less than one thousand names. C. Emptying and Refilling
   Master Jury Wheels Each master jury wheel shall be emptied and refilled
   at least every four years using voter registration lists from the most
   recent federal general election. If it should at any time appear that
   the names in a given master wheel will be exhausted before the
   prescribed time for refilling, the chief judge may order that it be
   refilled in advance of that time, and such refilling shall be in lieu
   of, and not in addition to, the next prescribed refilling. The number
   of names to be placed in a particular master jury wheel when refilling
   it shall be determined in the same manner described in section IV.B
   supra. D. Certification of Compliance Following the initial random
   selection of persons for inclusion in each master jury wheel and each
   succeeding refilling, the clerk shall require the execution of an
   affidavit by the director of the computer service center performing
   such functions. The affidavit shall attest, under penalty of perjury,
   the following facts: the date and manner of selection; the source and
   number of names in each wheel; an analysis of the demographic
   composition of each wheel; and, that all procedures specified in this
   plan governing the random selection of prospective jurors have been
   fully met in the automated phase of the selection process. E. Qualified
   Jury Wheels The clerk shall maintain a qualified jury wheel for each
   Divisional Area of the district. From time to time the clerk shall
   cause the names of as many persons as may be needed to maintain an
   adequate number of names in the qualified jury wheels to be randomly
   selected from each Divisional Area master jury wheel, and shall mail to
   each person whose name is drawn a juror qualification form as defined
   in 28 U.S.C. § 1869(h). That questionnaire shall be accompanied by
   instructions to fill out and return the document, duly signed and
   sworn, 3 to the clerk by mail within ten days. In any case in which it
   appears that there is an omission, ambiguity, or error in a form, the
   clerk shall return the form with instructions to the person to make
   such additions or corrections as may be necessary and to return the
   form to the clerk within ten days. The clerk then shall place into each
   qualified jury wheel the names of all persons who appear to be
   qualified, not exempt, and not subject to indefinite excuse from
   service in accordance with the procedures described in section VII
   infra. Each qualified jury wheel shall be emptied and refilled within
   three months after the date the corresponding master jury wheel is
   emptied and refilled in accordance with section IV.C supra. The service
   of jury panels already drawn, or jurors selected and sworn in a
   particular case, shall not be affected by the emptying and refilling of
   the master and qualified wheels from which the panel members or jurors
   originally were selected. V. DRAWING PETIT JURY PANELS A. Selection and
   Summoning Upon order by a judge of the court for a panel of petit
   jurors, the clerk shall randomly select from the appropriate Divisional
   Area qualified jury wheel the names of as many persons as may be needed
   for the selection of juries during that term of court. All persons so
   selected shall be summoned for service in the manner provided by 28
   U.S.C. § 1866(b). All jurors so summoned shall appear for service
   unless determined to be unqualified, exempt, or excused from such
   service in accordance with the procedures described in section VII
   infra. B. Shortages of Jurors In the event of an unanticipated shortage
   of available jurors, the clerk shall order additional jurors to be
   summoned using the procedure set out above. If the shortage develops
   too close to the beginning date of a term of court to permit selection
   and summoning by that procedure, however, the court may instruct the
   clerk to summon jurors previously summoned from the current qualified
   jury wheel for that division who have not served for as many as 14
   days. C. Excess Jurors The court may excuse jurors not needed as a
   result of an unanticipated excess in the number of jurors, provided
   that such is not inconsistent with the policies and rights declared in
   28 U.S.C. §§ 1861 and 1862. The court shall determine whether jurors so
   excused, or excused because of a cancellation of a term of court, shall
   be subject to recall on future panels for that same division. 4 D.
   Assignment to Panels When assigning prospective jurors to petit jury
   strike panels, the clerk shall place the names of available petit
   jurors randomly selected from the appropriate Divisional Area qualified
   jury wheel as provided in this plan, and who are not found to be
   unqualified, exempt, or excused from such service in accordance with
   the procedures described in section VII infra, in a panel jury wheel.
   Thereafter, such number of names as are necessary for the selection and
   seating of petit juries in particular cases, civil or criminal, shall
   be randomly drawn from the petit jury wheel, randomly assigned to voir
   dire strike panel seating charts, and directed to the appropriate
   courtrooms in which jury selection processes shall occur. VI. GRAND
   JURIES Grand juries function on a district-wide basis. Accordingly, the
   names of persons to serve as grand jurors shall be randomly selected in
   substantially proportional percentages by drawing a pro rata, or
   substantially pro rata number of names from the qualified jury wheels
   of each Divisional Area in the district, and the names so drawn shall
   be pooled and shall constitute the grand juries to report for duty. The
   clerk shall prepare a list of names of all persons so selected and
   shall issue a summons for service in the manner provided by 28 U.S.C. §
   1866(b). The names of persons drawn for service as grand jurors shall
   not be maintained in any public record or otherwise disclosed to the
   public, except upon the order of the district judge in charge of the
   grand jury on a showing that exceptional circumstances have created a
   demonstrated need for disclosure. Upon request for excusal, and if
   inspection of the juror qualification form of a person so selected
   reflects that the person should be excused from grand jury service,
   that person shall be returned to the appropriate divisional qualified
   jury wheel from which he or she was selected, and he or she shall be
   subject to subsequent random selection as a grand or petit juror when
   the reason for the excuse expires. Each grand jury shall serve for a
   period not to exceed eighteen months, unless extended by an order of
   the court, and such service shall not be affected by the emptying and
   refilling of the master and qualified wheels from which the panel
   members originally were selected. VII. QUALIFICATIONS, EXEMPTIONS,
   EXCUSE, AND EXCLUSION A. Procedure and Responsibility Determinations as
   to whether, at the time of adding names to a particular qualified jury
   wheel, or at the time a particular jury panel is summoned or appears
   for service, a prospective juror is qualified, is exempt, should be
   excluded, or should be excused from service shall be made by a district
   judge of the court; provided, however, that such judge may delegate
   authority to the clerk or a deputy clerk under supervision of the judge
   to make determinations as to requests to be excused for undue hardship
   or extreme inconvenience. 5 These determinations shall be made on the
   basis of the information provided by jurors on the juror qualification
   form and other competent evidence and in accordance with this plan and
   the laws under which this plan was adopted. The clerk shall enter such
   determination on the list of names from the master jury wheel or
   qualified jury wheel. If a person did not appear in response to
   summons, such fact also shall be noted on said list. B. Qualifications
   For Jury Service A person shall be deemed qualified for jury service
   pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1865(b), unless that person: (1) is not a
   citizen of the United States; (2) is less than 18 years of age; (3) has
   not resided in the Northern District of Alabama for a period of one
   year; (4) is unable to read, write, and understand the English language
   with a degree of proficiency sufficient to fill out satisfactorily the
   juror qualification form; (5) is unable to speak the English language;
   (6) is incapable of rendering satisfactory jury service by reason of
   mental or physical infirmity; (7) has a charge pending against him or
   her in a state or federal court of record for the commission of a crime
   punishable by imprisonment for more than one year; or (8) has been
   convicted in a state or federal court of record of a crime punishable
   by imprisonment for more than one year and his or her civil rights have
   not been restored. C. Exemptions A person is exempt and shall be barred
   from jury service pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1863(b)(6), if that person:
   (1) is a member in active service in the Armed Forces of the United
   States; (2) is a member of the fire or police department of any state
   or subdivision of a 6 state; or (3) is a public official1 in the
   executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the
   United States or of any state or subdivision of a state who is actively
   engaged on a full-time basis in the performance of official duties. D.
   Excuse From Jury Service On individual request, a person may be excused
   from jury service indefinitely or for a particular term or terms of
   court if such person: (1) is an actively practicing physician, dentist,
   or registered nurse; (2) is 70 years of age or older; (3) has active
   care and custody of a child under 10 years of age, or of an aged or
   infirm person, whose health or safety would be jeopardized by the
   person's absence; (4) within the preceding two years has, either in
   federal or state court, (a) actually served on more than one grand
   jury, (b) actually served as a grand juror and a petit juror, or (c)
   actually attended court for service or prospective service as a petit
   juror for a total of more than twelve days; (5) will be actively
   engaged during the period of service as a full-time teacher or student;
   (6) serves a public agency in an official capacity, without
   compensation, as a firefighter or member of a rescue squad or ambulance
   crew; or (7) otherwise demonstrates that such jury service will entail
   undue hardship or extreme inconvenience. The court finds pursuant to 28
   U.S.C. § 1863(b)(5)(A) that jury service by the groups of persons
   described in clauses (1) through (5) above will entail undue hardship
   and extreme inconvenience to the members of such groups or classes, and
   that excuse of such persons upon their individual request will not be
   inconsistent with 28 U.S.C. §§ 1861 and 1862. 7 Unless excused
   indefinitely, a person excused at the time of adding persons to a
   divisional qualified jury wheel shall be returned to the qualified
   wheel where he or she will be subject to subsequent random selection
   when the reason for the excuse expires. Unless excused indefinitely, a
   person excused at the time a panel is summoned or appears for service
   shall be summoned for service on a panel thereafter summoned as to
   which the reason for the excuse does not apply. When there is an excess
   of jurors present, either grand or petit, and their presence is
   required for only one day, the court shall, in its discretion, upon
   excusing the excess jurors, inform such persons that their names will
   be returned to the qualified jury wheel from which they originally were
   drawn, and such persons shall be subject to subsequent random
   selection. E. Exclusion From Jury Service A person may be excluded from
   jury service pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1866(c) if the court determines
   that: (1) such person may be unable to render impartial jury service;
   (2) such person's service would be likely to disrupt proceedings; or
   (3) such person's service would be likely to threaten the secrecy of
   the proceedings or otherwise adversely affect the integrity of jury
   deliberations. The name of any person excluded under clause (3) above,
   together with a detailed explanation for the exclusion, shall be
   immediately forwarded to the Judicial Council for the Eleventh Circuit.
   A person excluded from a particular jury shall be eligible to sit on
   another jury if the basis for the initial exclusion would not be
   relevant to his or her ability to serve on such other jury. VIII.
   DISCLOSURE AND CONFIDENTIALITY A. Disclosure This plan is a public
   document and shall be made available to any person for inspection and
   copying during normal business hours of the court. Lists of the names
   of, and other appropriate descriptive information (other than addresses
   and telephone numbers) concerning, persons summoned for service as
   petit jurors 8 shall be made available for public inspection and
   copying at the time such persons are scheduled to report for service or
   at such earlier time as a district judge of this court may order;
   provided, however, that the judge of the court in which any of the
   prospective jurors concerned are expected to serve may, by special
   order, require that the clerk keep such names confidential in a case or
   cases where the interests of justice so require. Pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
   §§ 1864(a), 1866(a), and 1869(k), the clerk shall give reasonable
   public notice of the date upon which, and of the place of the data
   processing center located in or out of the district at which, juror
   names are to be drawn, and state that such procedures shall be open to
   the public at large under such supervision of the clerk as the Judicial
   Conference of the United States shall by regulation require. B.
   Confidentiality The contents of all other records or papers used by the
   clerk in connection with the jury selection process shall not be
   disclosed without the express consent of the chief judge, except
   pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1867(f). C. Preservation of Records The clerk
   shall preserve, in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 1868, all records and
   papers compiled and maintained in connection with the jury selection
   process for a period of four years after the master wheels are emptied
   and refilled, or for such longer period as may be ordered by the court,
   and such records shall be available for public inspection for the
   purpose of determining the validity of the selection of any jury
   pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1867 et seq. Such records may then be
   destroyed, provided the means used is such as to ensure the
   confidentiality of their contents. 9
