http://www.spa.ars.usda.gov/area_qpb_off.htm

   SPA Quality Partnership Board

   Link to ARS Quality Partnership Home Page

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

         ARS SOUTHERN PLAINS AREA QUALITY PARTNERSHIP BOARD CHARTER

   The Quality Partnership Board is established to provide leadership and
           support for the implementation of quality improvements.

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

   SPA MISSION

    The Mission of the Southern Plains Area Office is to provide guidance
       and support to management units for fiscal, physical, and human
         resource management in order to assure program excellence,
      appropriateness and accountability for customers of the National
               Research Programs in the Southern Plains Area.

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

                                 Objectives

    Identify processes where improvement will show the greatest possible
                      impact in customer satisfaction.

   Emphasize employee awareness and involvement.

   Enhance the quality of products and services for customer satisfaction.

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

   Board Membership

   The Quality Partnership Board will consist of 6 to 8 members

   SPA Quality Coordinator (permanent), Chairman

                    Three AAO Staff Members (2 year term)

                    Three AAO Section Heads (2 year term)

                      One AD Staff Member (2 year term)

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

   Operating Procedures

   The Quality Partnership Board will meet on the second Thursday of each
   month at 9:30am. Meetings will start on time and end on time, and not
   exceed 1 hour.

   No substitutes or alternates will attend in the place of members.

   The Board will conduct business when a quorum is present. A quorum is
   defined as any 5 members of the Board.

   Minutes of the meeting will be published to all employees within 5 days
   after the meeting. All Board members will rotate the responsibility for
   keeping and distributing the minutes.

   The repository of records for minutes, the records of Quality
   Improvement Teams, and other Total Quality work will be maintained by
   the Quality Coordinator.

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)
   Ground Rules

   Be on time

                            Bring no outside work

                                  No guests

                              No interruptions

                  Meetings shall last a maximum of one hour

                          No outside conversations

   Treat each other with respect

                     Rank has no privileges on the Board

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

                       Quality Board Responsibilities

   Leadership Responsibilities. The Quality Partnership Board serves as a
   champion of the Total Quality change process within ARS Southern Plains
   Area. Members of the Board will demonstrate continuing commitment to
   the principles and practices of Total Quality in their Board functions
   and in their respective functional areas.

   AFM Vision, Mission and Strategic Plans. The Board will formulate
   quality programs and practices that support AFM's strategic plan and
   are designed to make Quality an effective and integral part of the AFM
   mission and vision.

   Commitment to Training. The Board will review the Quality training
   needs of ARS Southern Plains Area and develop recommendations for
   training in Total Quality awareness, tools and related subjects.

   Commitment to Recognition. The Board will develop and implement a
   system of quality-related awards and recognition and will encourage
   participation in quality activities and commitment to quality service.

   Teamwork and Process Improvement. The role of the Board is to provide
   leadership, support, and guidance to the SPA Area Administrative
   operations, and to develop a system for identifying problems or
   opportunities for improvement within our administrative and financial
   systems. The Board will create and charter teams, monitor their
   studies, review team recommendations, and develop follow-up action
   plans.

   Measurement and Analysis. The Board and /or Sponsors will develop or
   aid in the development of systems to regularly track the quality of SPA
   services and measure improvement.

   Focus on the Customer. The Board will develop systems to identify
   customers, survey their needs, and determine customer perception as to
   how those needs are being met.

   Selection of Processes for Improvement. The Board is responsible for
   selecting processess for team study and improvement.

   Communications. Recognizing the need to keep employees informed, the
   Board will be responsible for collecting and disseminating information
   to all employees concerning efforts and results with the SPA Quality
   efforts.

                          grgoline.gif (1462 bytes)

   WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, APPROVE THIS CHARTER AS WRITTEN.

   Carolyn Williams, Quality Coordinator
                  July 11, 1996
   James Coppedge                Brenda Whitwell

                  April Hamilton

       Jim Simmons, Co-Quality Coordinator
                    July 1997

   back.gif (279 bytes)     Back to SPA Home Page

   Last modified:  10/7/99
