http://simbios.gsfc.nasa.gov/text.html

                                SIMBIOS /NASA
   Sensor Intercomparison and Merger for Biological and Interdisciplinary
                               Oceanic Studies

     The NASA program consists of the SIMBIOS Science Team and the SIMBIOS
   Project Office. The SIMBIOS Science Team,  as initially defined by the
   NRA selections, was expanded to include additional investigations for
   atmospheric correction algorithm validation. The SIMBIOS program is
   substantially augmented by the participation of the NASA-supported
   MODIS Oceans Team and SeaWiFS Calibration and Validation program.
   SIMBIOS collaborators associated with other relevant programs and
   science teams who contribute data, algorithms, etc., are given access
   to SIMBIOS Project resources in return, e.g., access to the SeaWiFS
   Bio-optical Archive and Storage System (SeaBASS). Besides providing
   administrative and contract support for the science team, the SIMBIOS
   Project Office is scoped to support four primary activities: data
   product validation, sensor calibration, data merger algorithm
   evaluation, and satellite data processing.

   This page is in the process of being managed. Please check back
   frequently for additions to the text version of the site.

     Text Only Version
   These pages will enable users to access a text only version for users
   using text only browsers, viewers using Palm Pilots and other mobile
   web browsers, web phones, as well as surfers with slower internet
   connection speeds.

     International Ocean Colour Coordinating Group
   This page contains information on the various colour coordination work.
   The IOCCG is composed of a committee of experts in the field of
   satellite ocean colour, which acts as a liaison and communication
   channel between users, managers and agencies in the ocean-colour arena.
   This page is not part of the official SIMBIOS web site and is a site of
   it's own.

     OCTS Home Page
   The OCTS page contains tools that allows one to search for image data
   by time, date, and location. The images and data available is limited
   to the East Coast of the United States.

     MOS-B Browse Utility
   The MOS-B Browse Utility Page is a tool that allows users to search for
   SeaWifs image data by time, data and location. All information is
   limited to the East Coast of the United States.

     MOS Data Processing Log
   The MOS-B physical data from 1999-2000.

     The Official NASA Home Page
   The MOS-B Browse Utility Page is a tool that allows users to search for
   SeaWifs image data by time, data and location. All information is
   limited to the East Coast of the United States.

     The NASA/GSFC Lab for Hydrospheric Processes (Code 970) Home Page.
   The Laboratory for Hydrospheric Processes (Code 970) of the Earth
   Sciences Directorate at Goddard Space Flight Center is responsible for
   a broad range of programs dealing with theoretical and experimental
   research in the oceanic, cryospheric, and hydrologic sciences.


   LINKS
   News And Information
   Project Status
   Support Services
   SeaBASS
   Contacts
   Publications
   Ocean Color Sensors
   Accessibility

   Author/Site Curator: Sean Bailey
   Responsible NASA Official: Charles McClain
   Site Maintainer: Vanessa Howle-Payne
   Last revised October 2000 by Vanessa Howle-Payne
