http://www.state.gov/www/global/arms/factsheets/wmd/cw/cwcfs.html

   Great Seal   The State Department web site below is a permanent
   electronic archive of information released prior to January 20, 2001.
   Please see www.state.gov for material released since President George
   W. Bush took office on that date.  This site is not updated so external
   links may no longer function.  Contact us with any questions about
   finding information.

   NOTE: External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as
   an endorsement of the views contained therein.

   September 1998

   THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION

   The Chemical Weapons Convention is a global treaty that bans an entire
   class of weapons of mass destruction, chemical weapons. The CWC bans
   the production, acquisition, stockpiling, transfer and use of chemical
   weapons. It entered into force April 29, 1997 (see Signatories and
   Ratifiers).

   Chemical weapons pose a threat not just to our military but to innocent
   civilians, as the 1995 poison gas attack in the Japanese subway showed.
   Certain aspects of the Chemical Weapons Convention, including its law
   enforcement requirements and nonproliferation provisions, strengthen
   existing efforts to fight chemical terrorism. The CWC is a central
   element of U.S. arms control and nonproliferation policy that
   strengthens U.S. national security and contributes to global stability.

   Under the CWC, each State Party undertakes never, under any
   circumstances, to:

     * develop, produce, otherwise acquire, stockpile or retain chemical
       weapons, or transfer, directly or indirectly, chemical weapons to
       anyone;
     * use chemical weapons;
     * engage in any military preparation to use chemical weapons; and
     * assist, encourage or induce, in any way, anyone to engage in any
       activity prohibited to a State Party under this Convention.

   In addition each State Party undertakes, all in accordance with the
   provisions of the Convention, to:

     * destroy the chemical weapons it owns or possesses or that are
       located in any place under its jurisdiction or control;
     * destroy all chemical weapons it abandoned on the territory of
       another State Party; and
     * destroy any chemical weapons production facilities it owns or
       possesses or that are located in any place under its jurisdiction
       or control.

   Today, we suspect some 20 countries have or may be developing chemical
   weapons. These weapons are attractive to countries or individuals
   seeking a mass-destruction capability because they are relatively cheap
   to produce and do not demand the elaborate technical infrastructure
   needed to make nuclear weapons. It is therefore all the more vital to
   establish an international bulwark against the acquisition and use of
   these weapons.

   The CWC is the most ambitious treaty in the history of arms control.
   Whereas most arms control treaties in the past have only limited
   weapons, the CWC requires their outright elimination. Parties to the
   Convention must destroy any and all chemical weapons and chemical
   weapons production facilities.

   The CWC penalizes countries that do not join. Entry into force of the
   CWC served to isolate the small number of non-participating states as
   international pariahs and inhibit their access to certain
   treaty-controlled chemicals. Since many of these chemicals are not only
   required to make chemical weapons but have important uses in commercial
   industry, the hold-outs have economic as well as political incentives
   to join the treaty regime.

   The Chemical Weapons Convention and Industry

   The CWC is the first arms control treaty to widely affect the private
   sector. Although the United States does not manufacture chemical
   weapons, it does produce, process, and consume a number of chemicals
   that can be used to produce chemical weapons. For example, a solvent
   used in ballpoint pen ink can be easily converted into mustard gas, and
   a chemical involved in production of fire retardants and pesticides can
   be used to make nerve agents. Thus, any Treaty to ban chemical weapons
   must monitor commercial facilities that produce, process or consume
   dual-use chemicals to ensure they are not diverted for prohibited
   purposes.

   The CWC provisions covering chemical facilities were developed with the
   active participation of industry representatives. The verification
   regime is intrusive enough to build confidence that member states are
   complying with the treaty, yet it respects industry's legitimate
   interests in safeguarding proprietary information and avoiding
   disruption of production.

   In testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Fred
   Webber, President and CEO of the Chemical Manufacturers Association,
   said, "We have studied this treaty in great detail; we have put it to
   the test. We think the CWC is a good deal for American industry....The
   Chemical Weapons Convention protects vital commercial interests. I know
   because we helped design the reporting forms. And I know because we
   helped develop inspection procedures that protect trade secrets while
   providing full assurance that chemical weapons are not being
   produced...The Chemical Weapons Convention makes good business sense
   and good public policy."

   The CWC and the Military

   The CWC specifically allows Parties to maintain chemical weapons
   defensive programs and does not constrain non-CW military responses to
   a chemical weapons attack. John Shalikashvili, former Chairman of the
   Joint Chiefs of Staff, has said in Senate testimony, "Desert Storm
   proved that retaliation in kind is not required to deter the use of
   chemical weapons." He explained, "the U.S. military's ability to deter
   chemical weapons in a post-CW world will be predicated upon both a
   robust chemical weapons defense capability, and the ability to rapidly
   bring to bear superior and overwhelming military force in retaliation
   against a chemical attack." As Defense Secretary Cheney said during the
   Gulf War, and as former Defense Secretary Perry reiterated, the U.S.
   response to a chemical weapons attack would be "absolutely
   overwhelming" and "devastating."

   CWC Implementation

   With or without the CWC, the United States is already destroying its
   chemical weapons in accordance with a law Congress passed more than a
   decade ago requiring destruction of the bulk of the U.S. chemical
   weapons stockpile. That process is under way, with completion slated by
   the end of 2004. The CWC now requires all States Parties that possess
   chemical weapons to destroy their stockpiles by April 2007.

   The U.S. is a member of the Executive Council of the Organization for
   the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, in The Hague, that will oversee
   implementation of the CWC. U.S. citizens serve as international
   inspectors and in other key positions relating to verification of the
   treaty (see Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons). In
   the United States, the Department of Commerce expects to publish
   regulations pertaining to CWC verification after enactment of the CWC
   Implementation Act.

   The CWC puts into place a legally binding international standard
   outlawing the acquisition and possession, as well as use, of chemical
   weapons. The Convention not only requires States Parties to destroy
   their chemical weapons arsenals but prohibits them from transferring
   chemical weapons to other countries or assisting anyone in prohibited
   activities. Combined with restrictions on chemical trade in
   CWC-controlled chemicals with non-parties, these provisions increase
   the costs and difficulties of acquiring chemical weapons for states
   that choose not to participate.

   Universal adherence and complete abolition of chemical weapons won't be
   achieved immediately. But the Convention slows and even reverses
   chemical weapons proliferation by isolating the small number of rogue
   state that refuse to join the regime, limiting their access to
   precursor chemicals, and bringing international political and economic
   pressures to bear if such states continue their chemical weapons
   programs.
