http://ora.ca.gov/newsdocs/NRF_Future_statement_FINAL.doc

   Remarks of Regina Birdsell, Director Office of Ratepayer Advocates To
   the Assembly Committee on Utilities and Commerce December 12, 2001 The
   Future of the New Regulatory Framework The history of NRF is mixed.
   Overall, NRF has protected ratepayers well with a few notable
   exceptions. Going forward, the Commission should maintain the basic
   framework while strengthening other parts to protect consumers. We
   Couldn't Have Guessed What's Actually Happened Since 1995, when
   California opened the telecommunications market, and with the passage
   of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, residential and small business
   customers have paid millions to set up the means to jump start local
   competition, but have gotten few of the promised benefits. Today,
   consumers face a newly resurgent ``Ma Bell'' through mergers of the
   Regional Bell Operating Companies and other companies who, only a blink
   of time ago, were competitors. Industry leaders tell us today that
   these mergers will continue, putting even more market power into the
   hands of fewer communications companies. We have watched would-be
   competitive local exchange companies, such as AT&T, MCI/WorldCom and
   Sprint, walk away from the residential local service customer. Barriers
   to entry and marketplace failures have taken away any alternatives to
   the incumbents' broadband DSL service offerings. This is hardly the
   vision of the telecommunications landscape we all had only a few years
   ago. Residential Phone Service Remains Largely a Monopoly Business, and
   So Does Most of Business Phone Service Today, Pacific Bell and Verizon
   control over 95% of California's residential local market, and
   Roseville and Citizens have similar market shares. These utilities
   maintain their historical monopoly control over essential bottleneck
   facilities that competitors depend on to connect customers to the
   public switched telephone network. This lack of competition in the
   local telecommunications marketplace is unlikely to change for the
   foreseeable future. These are the same companies that extol the state
   of competition in today's marketplace and, because of that, say NRF is
   obsolete, and thus should be discarded. Based on these simple facts, we
   strongly disagree. Lawmakers and regulators should proceed with great
   caution in the face of these claims. Freeing these monopolies from the
   regulatory oversight embedded in NRF will jeopardize the key goals of
   incentive regulation, such as rate stability and mitigating
   anti-competitive behavior. We cannot rely on market forces alone to
   safeguard ratepayers from any incumbent's unfair exercise of market
   power, particularly where effective competition is not irreversible.
   You have heard earlier today that the Commission recently began its
   fourth Triennial Review of the NRF. Parties have made their initial
   filings and the proceeding is underway. In open NRF forum, the
   Commission will consider evidence presented by Pacific Bell and
   Verizon, ORA, Turn and other parties. The Commission will hold
   evidentiary hearings to consider proposals to change NRF. As a
   practical matter, the right forum to consider necessary any changes to
   NRF is in the Commission's NRF review proceeding. Important Changes to
   NRF are needed Our practical experience with NRF calls for improved
   oversight. Comprehensive audits have been started on Pacific Bell's and
   Verizon's operations in the current proceeding. But this is not enough.
   ORA strongly recommends enhanced and more frequent NRF audits. Under PU
   Code Section 314.5, the NRF companies should be audited at least every
   three years. Until work had begun on the current audits, which are
   still pending, Pacific Bell and Verizon had not experienced a rigorous,
   comprehensive regulatory audit for over ten years. The Commission
   should raise the bar and keep it high when it considers requests to
   recategorize services to ``fully competitive'' Category III services.
   Once that happens, Pacific Bell or Verizon has complete freedom to
   raise prices without restraint. In the several instances we've cited,
   soon after the Commission buys a utility's claim that a service is
   fully competitive, sizeable price increases have followed. That makes
   no sense at all, unless the incumbent holds substantial market power.
   Some have argued for more significant reforms such as structurally
   separating ILEC wholesale operations from ILEC retail services. This
   proposal should be reserved for later consideration. A good time to
   take this up would occur after the Commission completes its current NRF
   review and after the Section 271 proceeding concerning Pacific Bell's
   entry into the long distance market. Finally, we need to maintain the
   Commission's jurisdiction over services provided by NRF companies.
   Rapid technological changes in telecommunications promise new services
   and lowered prices to consumers. Nevertheless, the market power of the
   regional Bell monopolies, such as SBC and Verizon, has not been
   effectively challenged. Their market power is growing, not diminishing.
   California consumers cannot be protected from monopoly abuses if the
   Commission loses its regulatory reach. We also need to take a lesson
   from California's rush to change the regulatory scheme for the electric
   industry. Among other painful outcomes, the Commission lost control
   over power generation. We're hearing the echoes of ``effective energy
   competition is at hand'' now applied to the circumstances of the
   telecommunications industry. Then, as now, deregulation pundits alleged
   consumers would soon see the benefits of ever-falling, competitive
   prices. That promise was not realized. Instead, consumers and, indeed,
   all Californians, bear the multi-billion dollar cost of that mistake.
   Now is not the Time to Discard NRF Having said all of this, I cannot
   escape the conclusion that while the Nation faces unprecedented,
   indeterminate threats, a strong telecommunications infrastructure is
   vital for national security and for California's economic health. The
   easiest and least controversial decision is to stay the course on NRF
   while we consider means to enhance and sharpen the protections for
   California consumers.
