http://www.lbl.gov/Disclaimers.html

          Berkeley Lab [spacer.gif]

                                                   Notice to Users

                                                     [spacer.gif]
                                                        A-Z Index
                                                     [spacer.gif]
                                                           Search
                                                     [spacer.gif]
                                                       Phone Book
                                                     [spacer.gif]
                                                         Comments
                                                     [spacer.gif]
                                                     [spacer.gif]
          [spacer.gif]
          [spacer.gif]
           Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
          [spacer.gif]



   Privacy & Security Notice, Copyright Status, Disclaimers

   This web site is hosted by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
   which is operated by the University of California for the United States
   Department of Energy. As such the following rules apply:

   PRIVACY NOTICE

   Welcome to the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. We collect no
   personal information about you when you visit our web site unless
   otherwise stated or unless you choose to provide this information to
   us. However, we collect and store certain information automatically:
     * Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you access
       the Internet (i.e., 123.456.789.012), either your individual
       address or the proxy provided by your Internet Service Provider
       (ISP).
     * Date and time you access our site.
     * Pages you view (recorded by the text and graphics files that
       compose that page).
     * Web address of the site from which you linked directly to our site.
     * Browser version and operating system of the computer you are using.

   This information is not shared with anyone beyond the web site support
   staff, except when required by law enforcement investigation, and is
   used only as a source of anonymous statistical information.

   We use the summary statistics to help us make our site more useful to
   visitors, such as assessing what information is of most and least
   interest to visitors, and for other purposes such as determining the
   site's technical design specifications and identifying system
   performance or problem areas.

   Sending Comments/Online Forms

   You may choose to provide us with personal information, by sending
   e-mail with questions or comments or by filling out an online form and
   submitting it to us through our web site. We use this information to
     * Respond to your message.
     * Gather the requested information, such as to attend an LBNL hosted
       conference.

   We do not create individual profiles with the information you provide.
   If information is collected, it will be used solely in connection with
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory or for such other purposes as are
   described at the point of collection. We do not give, sell, or transfer
   any personal information to a third party.

   However, your e-mail message, question, or comment may be forwarded to
   other LBNL employees who may be better able to help you. Except for
   authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not share our e-mail
   with any other outside organizations. However, e-mail and on-line forms
   are not secure against interception and senders cannot expect privacy.
   If you are concerned about transmitting personal information such as
   bank account, charge card, or social security numbers, contact the web
   page owner for an alternative method to provide the necessary
   information.

   Terms of Use

   Please read these Terms of Use ("Terms") carefully before accessing the
   web site. By accessing the LBNL web site you indicate that you have
   read the following terms and agree to be bound by and comply with them.
   If you do not so agree, please promptly exit.

   SECURITY NOTICE

   Information from this server resides on a computer system funded by the
   U.S. Department of Energy. This computer system is the property of the
   United States Government and is for authorized use only. The use of
   this system may be monitored for computer security purposes. Any
   unauthorized access to this system is prohibited and is subject to
   criminal and civil penalties under Federal Laws including but not
   limited to Public Laws 83-703 and 99-474.

   Each time you use this system (from here, from home, or on your
   personal laptop connected to an LBNL system), you consent to such
   interception, auditing, and related activity by authorizing personnel;
   further, LBNL may detain, access, and copy files from a non-LBNL
   computer when there is reason to believe misuse has occurred.

   COPYRIGHT STATUS: LBNL authored documents are sponsored by the U.S.
   Department of Energy under Contract DE-AC03-76SF00098. Accordingly, the
   U.S. Government retains a nonexclusive, royalty-free license to publish
   or reproduce these documents, or allow others to do so, for U.S.
   Government purposes. These documents may be freely distributed and used
   for non-commercial, scientific and educational purposes. Commercial use
   of the documents available from this server may be protected under the
   U.S. and Foreign Copyright Laws. Individual documents on this server
   may have different copyright conditions, and that will be noted in
   those documents.  For further information, send queries to the patent
   department.

   DISCLAIMER OF ENDORSEMENT: Reference herein to any specific commercial
   products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer,
   or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
   recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or the
   University of California. The views and opinions of authors expressed
   herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
   Government or the University of California, and shall not be used for
   advertising or product endorsement purposes.

   DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY: With respect to documents available from this
   server, neither the United States Government nor the University of
   California nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or
   implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
   particular purpose, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility
   for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information,
   apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use
   would not infringe privately owned rights.
