http://modeling.water.ca.gov/News_Releases.htm

   Golden State Title State of California Home Page Link Governor's Office
                                                         Home Page Link

   Department of Water Resources, Office of State Water Project Planning,
   Modeling Support Branch

   News Release

               12/14/01    CALSIM II BENCHMARK STUDY RELEASED


      The Bureau of Reclamation Mid-Pacific Region (Reclamation) and the
   California Department of Water Resources (DWR) have jointly released a
   CALSIM II Benchmark Study of the Central Valley Project and State Water
   Project. The benchmark study provides a common starting point for
   various water resources planning studies.

      CALSIM is a general water resources planning software developed by
   DWR. CALSIM II, developed through a collaborative effort by DWR and
   Reclamation, represents a comprehensive simulation of the State Water
   Project and Central Valley Project. Example simulation studies were
   released for review and comment in September 2001, and technical
   reviews were conducted and refinements made to the example studies to
   produce this benchmark study. CALSIM II will be applied to planning
   studies such as raising Shasta Dam, developing in-Delta storage,
   modifications of the regulatory environment, and others identified in
   the CALFED Record of Decision.

      This release includes the study report and input dataset for:
   Version 1.0 of the 2001 Level of Hydrology Benchmark Study using Contra
   Costa Water District's G-model for flow-salinity relationships in the
   Delta. Within the next month, a version of this study using DWR's
   Artificial Neural Network (ANN) model for flow-salinity relationships
   in the Delta is planned for release. Within the next two months, a
   version of these studies using the 2020 level of hydrology is planned
   for release.

      The study report includes a description of planned improvements that
   are being pursued by the study team. The CALSIM software, the study
   report and input dataset, as well as instructions for downloading,
   installing and usage are available on DWR Modeling Support's Web Page:

   Access CALSIM

   Access 12/14/01 CALSIM II Benchmark Study (G-model)

      For additional information, please contact Lloyd Peterson,
   Mid-Pacific Region Bureau of Reclamation at: LPeterson@mp.usbr.gov, or
   by phone at 916/978-5075. (TDD 1-800-735-2922), or Sushil Arora,
   California Department of Water Resources at: sushil@water.ca.gov, or by
   phone at 916/653-7921.


   Back | Home Available Studies Computer Models Reports

                             Section Home Pages
   Site Map
   Hydrology &
   Operations Delta Modeling Computer Assistance

 Disclaimer
 Comments or  Suggestions?
 Webmaster email htdelmod@water.ca.gov
 Last modified: December 14, 2001.

 Copyright © 2000.
 California Department of Water Resources.
 All rights reserved.
                                          Department of Water Resources
                                          Office of State Water Project Planning
                                          Modeling Support Branch
                                          P.O. Box  942836
                                          Sacramento, CA  94236-001
                                          (916) 653-4391
