http://www.access-board.gov/news/AB-AIAcourse.htm

   Access Board Logo AIA logo Board and AIA Launch On-Line Training Course

   The Board and the American Institute of Architects (AIA) have developed
   a web-based education course on the Board’s ADA Accessibility
   Guidelines (ADAAG). The four-part course focuses on supplements to
   ADAAG that cover public sector facilities, including courthouses and
   prisons, and building elements designed for children’s use.

   The AIA is making this course available on its web site to train
   architects and to provide continuing education credits to its members
   and others. The interactive course includes case studies, discussion of
   key issues, and multiple choice questions.  Users can download a Course
   Supplement and copies of the guidelines.  The four parts of the course
   are:
     * Introduction/ Course Supplement
     * Module 1:  Judicial, Legislative, and Regulatory Facilities
     * Module 2:  Detention and Correctional Facilities; and
     * Module 3:  Building Elements Designed for Children’s Use.

   Users can take any or all of these sections and earn three health/
   safety/ welfare learning (HSW) credits per module under the AIA
   program. The course is available on the AIA web site at:
   www.aia.org/conted/access.  A version of the course is also available
   here on this web site (however, education credits are not offered
   through the Board’s site).

   The guidelines on judicial, legislative, and regulatory facilities
   address elements such as restricted and secured entrances, security
   systems, assembly seating, speakers’ platforms, and assistive listening
   systems.  Much of this module is devoted to courthouses and covers
   access to courtroom spaces, such as witness stands and jury boxes,
   holding cells, and jury deliberation rooms.

   The module on detention and correctional facilities addresses the
   minimum number of cells that must be accessible (2%) and provides
   technical criteria for accessible cells.

   The third module covers alternate specifications based on children’s
   dimensions for certain elements covered by ADAAG.  These include
   drinking fountains, water closets, toilet stalls, lavatories and sinks,
   and fixed or built-in seating and tables. (As originally published,
   ADAAG, like most other accessibility guidelines, provided
   specifications based only on adult dimensions.)

   The course also explains the status and proper application of these
   ADAAG supplements, which have not yet been incorporated by the
   Department of Justice into the enforceable standards.  For further
   guidance on these or other Board guidelines, visit Technical
   Assistance.
