http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/hotspots.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter


   Top Sustainability Web Sites
   [hp_bullet.gif] Overview
                   Green Buildings
                   Green Development
                   Land Use Planning
                   Measuring Progress
                   Disaster Planning
                   Community Energy
                   Transportation
                   Sustainable Business
                   Financing
                   Rural Issues
                   Resource Efficiency
                   Air•Water•Materials

   Hot Spots -- Top Web Sites on
   Sustainable Community Development

   Visit our
   Sustainable Website
   of the Week!
   Welcome to our list of the top Web sites on sustainable community
   development. These sites offer a host of useful information that can
   help your community with sustainable development efforts. We welcome
   information on other Web sites you have created or discovered that
   would make good additions to our list. To suggest a site, click here
   here.

                                 [newrule.gif]
     * Livable Communities Website

     The Livable Communities website offers information, tools, and
     resources on programs to help your community grow in ways that
     ensure a high quality of life and strong, sustainable economic
     growth.
     * Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Network (EREN)

     There is no shortage of useful information at this site, which is
     the Home Page of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Energy
     Efficiency and Renewable Energy. The site, which is searchable by
     keyword, provides links to information on the whole spectrum of
     energy-efficiency and renewable energy topics, as well as a list of
     key contacts and a list of hot topics (the federal budget or Mideast
     oil, for example). EREN offers access to DOE’s national laboratory
     data bases on a host of topics, such as solar access and wind
     regimes. There is even a form to submit energy-related questions and
     lists of discussion groups on various energy-related topics.
     *  The Local Government Commission

     The Local Government Commission provides peer networking
     opportunities, acts as an interface between city and county
     officials, and provides practical policy ideas for addressing
     serious environmental and social problems.  Major program areas
     include Pedestrian and Transit Oriented Land Use Planning, Waste
     Prevention and Resource Conservation, Resource Efficient Land Use,
     and the Center for Livable Communities.
     * Green Communities Assistance Kit

     Developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a
     step-by-step guide for identifying and resolving community needs,
     and planning and implementing sustainable actions. Also identifies
     useful tools, case studies, and other resources.
     * Sustainable Communities Network (SCN)

     Developed by the Sustainable Communities Network Partnership, this
     site encourages the exchange of information to help make communities
     more livable and increases the visibility of successful community
     projects. A wide range of issues related to community sustainability
     are addressed, including: creating communities, smart growth,
     growing a sustainable economy, protecting natural resources, living
     sustainably, and governing community. Within these topics, you can
     locate case studies, resources, related Web sites, links to
     databases, events calendars, and suggested reading lists for
     specific subtopics.
     * President’s Council on Sustainable Development (PCSD)

     This Web site contains information about the PCSD, including general
     information such as the executive order that established the PCSD,
     its mission, and members. You'll also find the PCSD’s final report
     to the President, outlining its recommendations for a national
     sustainable development action strategy, along with reports of the
     eight task forces created under the PCSD, and a sustainable
     development newsletter.
     * Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Communities (EZ/EC)

     This site presents all sorts of useful information about the EZ/EC
     Program, a Presidential Initiative implemented to revitalize
     distressed communities across the United States by rebuilding a
     sense of community and restoring economic opportunities for all
     citizens. The site explains the program, the initiative that put it
     into place, and its regulations; provides lists and maps of the
     EZ/EC communities; offers links to community Home Pages; and
     provides a toolbox of resources, including U.S. codes, successful
     economic development practices, and publications. If you’re seeking
     information on investing in an EZ/EC community, there is a guide to
     EZ/EC business, a community banking guide, tax-free bond guide, a
     Small Business Administration guide, and a sample marketing plan.
     * HUD Community Planning and Development

     This Web site provides access to many U.S. Department of Housing and
     Urban Development (HUD) programs that can serve as resources for
     sustainability efforts. Topics include community development,
     affordable housing, and energy/environment.
     * Chattanooga Sustainability Page

     Learn about Chattanooga, Tennessee’s, journey toward a sustainable
     future. Through this site, Chattanooga reports on its progress and
     shares information on sustainable development to encourage the
     long-term use of natural resources.
     * Sustainable Seattle

     Sustainable Seattle is a volunteer network and civic forum concerned
     with promoting sustainable development on the local level in
     Seattle, Washington. Particularly useful among this site’s features
     is Indicators of Sustainability, which discusses Seattle’s efforts
     at developing ways to measure progress toward, or away from,
     sustainability. You’ll also benefit from the Directory of
     Sustainability-Promoting Organizations.
     * Sustainable Communities Resource Package (SRCP)

     Developed by the Ontario (Canada) Round Table on Environment and
     Economy, SCRP offers ideas, principles, approaches, and actions that
     any community can use to get started toward a sustainable future. It
     is intended to facilitate community-based sustainability
     discussions. The package is a collection of materials that support
     and encourage community sustainability initiatives, and is
     structured as steps that your community might follow. Its main
     sections include “The Concept of Sustainability,” “Profiling the
     Community,” and “Taking Action.”
     * Tahoe Center for a Sustainable Future (TCSF)

     TCSF facilitates information, resources, education and strategies to
     achieve a sustainable future. At this site, you’ll learn specific
     details about the concept of sustainability, and about TCSF, its
     mission and its vision. You can also learn about TCSF’s programs,
     such as the Sustainable Curriculum Program and the Information and
     Technology Program. Those of you hoping to learn more about the
     Internet and how it can help you locate the vast amount of resources
     that are out there will benefit from the “On-Line Resources Guide.”
     * Public Technology, Inc. (PTI)

     PTI is the nonprofit organization of the National League of Cities,
     the National Association of Counties, and the International
     City/County Management Association. Visit PTI’s Web site, and you’ll
     learn more about the organization and its programs. For example,
     you’ll find a host of useful publications related to sustainable
     development in News and Publications. You’ll also be able to access
     other resources and links, such as city and county sites and sites
     related to PTI’s group, as well as be able to conduct an Internet
     search on a particular topic.
     * Tools for a Sustainable Community--ICLEI's One-Stop Guide for Local
       Government

     The International Center for Local Environmental Initiatives (ICLEI)
     is a nonprofit organization established through the partnership of
     the United Nations Environment Programme, the International Union of
     Local Authorities, and the Center for Innovative Diplomacy. The
     "Tools for a Sustainable Community" site identifies resources from
     the federal government and other agencies that can help your local
     government create a sustainable community. Includes references for
     technical assistance, funding sources, publications, and internet
     sites. At ICLEI's broader site, you’ll find case studies, project
     summaries (the Business Partners Program and the Cities for Climate
     Protection Campaign, for example), a newsletter, information on
     publications related to policy and practice, a calendar of events,
     and links to other sites. If you’re a member, you’ll find full text
     ICLEI case studies and publications in the Member’s Lounge.
     * Urban Ecology

     Through its worldwide membership, nonprofit Urban Ecology supports
     and participates in the development of ecologically healthy and
     socially vital cities and towns. At this Web site, you’ll be able to
     access information about projects such as Blueprint for a
     Sustainable Bay Area, which aims to create a vision for the Bay Area
     based on sustainable alternatives, and the Community Design Work
     project, through which Urban Ecology is offering communities a
     chance to participate in a “visionary, practical” approach to
     community design.
     * International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD)

     IISD, a Canadian non-government organization, believes that
     sustainable development occurs where environmental integrity,
     economic efficiency, and the well-being of people meet. From this
     standpoint, its Web site discusses many issues related to
     sustainable development including the concept of sustainability,
     presents a chronology of sustainable development, and offers
     sustainable development principles from the perspectives of
     different groups. You’ll also find a wide variety of additional
     information, such as calendar of events, information sources, and
     “Hot Topics,” which features timely sustainable development-related
     information (and it’s archived so you can access past months). You
     can also learn about 50 Communities Awards, presented to communities
     throughout the world that demonstrated success in 10 categories of
     activity deemed important to the United Nations.
     * Institute for Local Self-Reliance (ILSR)

     ILSR is a nonprofit education and research organization that
     provides information and assistance on topics related to sustainable
     development. For more than 20 years, ILSR has worked with citizen
     groups, governments, and private companies to develop sustainable
     development policies. Visit this Web site and you’ll find
     information about ILSR’s activities, such as its Carbohydrate Energy
     Program and its work with Minnesotans for an Energy-Efficient
     Economy, a coalition of organizations striving for a sustainable
     energy policy in Minnesota. You’ll also find information on a
     technical and educational reports on a variety of topics, including
     sustainable development and sustainable energy policy.
     * Greenbuilder

     Part of the Austin City Connection page in Austin, Texas, this site
     provides useful information on resources related to sustainable
     building practices, products, and techniques. The site profiles
     publications, such as The Sustainable Building Sourcebook, developed
     for the Austin Green Builder Program. If you’re interested in
     in-depth reviews of sustainable building products and methods, see
     “Environmental Building News Beta Site,” for information on where to
     access unbiased information.
     * Resource Renewal Institute (RRI)

     RRI, a nonprofit organization, promotes the use of Green Plans to
     achieve a sustainable environment and economy. Green Plans are
     “dynamic programs by which all elements of society agree on
     long-term environmental goals and take responsibility for achieving
     them.” This Web site serves to educate and inform its users about
     Green Blocks, as well as to provide information on other resources
     and updates about what’s new at RRI. Access the Environmental Atlas
     for information on which communities across the world are
     implementing Green Plans and how they’re doing it. To access
     documents and speeches about Green Plans, visit the Green Plan
     Archive. Or join the Green Plan Forum mailing list to share comments
     and new information about Green Plans.
     * Global Environmental Options (GEO)

     GEO, a nonprofit consulting organization, works with a wide variety
     of clients, including utilities, communities, governments, and
     building professionals, to help identify leading-edge solutions for
     the environment. You can learn about GEO’s activities, such as its
     Designing for Life workshops, its Information Resource
     Clearinghouse, as well as information on its projects, including the
     Grand Canyon Workshops, the Greening of Yellowstone project, and the
     2002 Olympics Program, which aims to achieve environmental success
     at the 2002 Olympic Games in Salt Lake City by addressing related
     issues early in the process.
     * Renewable Energy Policy Project - Center for Renewable Energy &
       Sustainable Technology (REPP-CREST)

     The CREST website provides extensive information on numerous aspects
     of renewable energy and energy efficiency, at levels from
     introductory to advanced technical. The site includes a calendar,
     discussion groups, data, and listings of employment opportunities in
     the field. Renewable energy information on hydro, solar, biomass,
     wind, and geothermal is offered, as well as micropower options and
     energy efficiency.
     * Florida Internet Center for Understanding Sustainability (FICUS)

     A joint effort between the Florida Center for Community Design and
     the University of South Florida’s School of Architecture and
     Community Design, this comprehensive resource offers a large amount
     of high-quality information on sustainable communities. You can find
     information on what constitutes a sustainability community, on
     transportation and sustainability, on population and resource use,
     on Florida’s energy and ecosystems, and on environmental education.
     The "Reference Library" offers on-line publications related to
     sustainability, as well as a bibliography of literature that relates
     to FICUS’s issues. In addition, you can find information on member
     organizations and other organizations related to sustainability and
     the environment.

   Last updated: May 8, 2001


                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
