http://www.earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Library/SORCE/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                        Reference

     Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment (SORCE)



   Without the Sun, the Earth would be no more than a frozen rock stranded
   in space. The Sun warms the Earth and makes life possible. Its energy
   generates clouds, cleanses our water, produces plants, keeps animals
   and humans warm, and drives ocean currents and thunderstorms. Despite
   the Sun’s importance, scientists have only begun to study it with high
   precision. Prior to 1979, in fact, astronomers and Earth scientists did
   not even have accurate data on the total amount of energy from the Sun
   that reaches the Earth’s outermost atmosphere. Variable absorption of
   sunlight by clouds and aerosols prevented researchers from accurately
   measuring solar radiation before it strikes the Earth’s atmosphere.

   photograph of sunset
   Energy from the Sun makes life on Earth possible. Solar energy also
   drives the Earth’s climate, and slight variations in solar radiance
   could offset (or increase) global warming. (Photograph courtesy Philip
   Greenspun)

   The launch of the Nimbus-7 satellite in 1978 changed all that. It
   enabled us for the first time to detect sunlight without interference
   from the atmosphere. The Earth Radiation Budget (ERB) instrument on the
   satellite measured levels of solar radiation just before it strikes the
   Earth’s atmsophere. Through subsequent satellite missions, scientists
   have gathered a wealth of information on the Sun and the solar energy
   that drives our world’s climate system.

   Today researchers know that roughly 1,368 watts per square meter
   (W/m^2) of solar energy on average hits the outermost atmosphere of the
   Earth. They know that the Earth absorbs about only 70 percent of this
   total solar irradiance (TSI), and the rest is reflected into space.
   Perhaps most intriguing, researchers have affirmed that the TSI doesn’t
   stay constant, but varies slightly with sunspots and solar weather
   activity. In particular, by analyzing satellite data, scientists have
   observed a correlation between the Sun’s output of energy and the
   11-year sunspot cycle, which physicists have known of since Galileo’s
   time. These data show that TSI varies just as regularly as the sunspot
   activity over this 11-year period, rising and falling 1.4 W/m^2 through
   the course of the cycle (0.1 percent of the TSI). There are also
   longer-term trends in solar weather activity that last anywhere from
   years to centuries to millennia and may have an impact on global
   warming.



   pullquote

   Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment (SORCE)
   Introduction
   Earth’s Energy Balance
   Solar Variability
   The Sun and Global Warming
   Uncertainties in Solar Measurements

   The SORCE Satellite
   Total Irradiance Monitor (TIM)
   Spectral Irradiance Monitor (SIM)
   Solar Stellar Comparison Experiment (SOLSTICE)
   Extreme Ultraviolet Photometer System (XPS)

   Related Articles
   SOLSTICE
   Watching the Sun
   ACRIMSAT
   Sunspots and the Solar Max
   Clouds and Radiation
   Why isn’t Earth Hot as an Oven?

   Related Datasets
   Reflected Solar Radiation
   Outgoing Heat Radiation

   Total Solar Irradiance Plot

   The total energy emitted by the Sun varies on an 11-year cycle. Even
   greater variation occurs at shorter time scales as sunspot groups form
   and dissipate. At longer time scales the Sun may undergo other cycles.
   By monitoring these changes in the Sun, scientists hope to better
   understand its role in changing the Earth’s climate. (Graph adapted
   from Goddard Institute for Space Studies Data and Images: Solar
   Irradiance)

   Due to technological barriers and a limited amount of data, however,
   scientist’s understanding of the Sun-Earth system continues to be
   incomplete. They are unable to predict fluctuations in TSI due to
   11-year and long-term solar cycles, and scientists do not yet have
   accurate enough measurements to determine the trend from one cycle to
   the next with sufficient precision. In fact, the TSI is currently known
   to within an accuracy of a few Watts per square meter, which is greater
   than the entire fluctuation of the TSI over one 11-year solar cycle.
   Additionally, scientists haven’t pinned down what proportion of solar
   energy is absorbed by the land or atmosphere. They also do not have
   complete measurements of the energy variation for the distinct
   wavelengths of incoming solar radiation. These different wavelengths
   affect the various components of the Earth’s atmosphere, land, and
   ocean in different ways.

   In the middle of 2002, Earth scientists will move a step closer to a
   full understanding of the Sun’s energy output with the launch of the
   Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment (SORCE) satellite. SORCE will be
   equipped with four instruments that will measure variations in solar
   radiation much more accurately than anything now in use and observe
   some of the spectral properties of solar radiation for the first time.
   Robert Cahalan of NASA Goddard Space Flight Center serves as SORCE
   Project Scientist, and the four instruments are being built at the
   University of Colorado under the direction of Gary Rottman, SORCE
   Principal Investigator, with participation by an international team of
   scientists. SORCE will be launched in Fall 2002 from Kennedy Space
   Center on a Pegasus rocket provided by Orbital Sciences Corporation.
   With data from NASA’s SORCE mission, researchers should be able to
   follow how the Sun affects our climate now and in the future.

   next: Earth’s Energy Balance


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
