http://ast.faa.gov/notices/102301.htm

           View the .TXT version            View the .PDF version

[Federal Register: October 23, 2001 (Volume 66, Number 205)]
[Notices]
[Page 53654-53655]
From the Federal Register Online via GPO Access [wais.access.gpo.gov]
[DOCID:fr23oc01-130]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Federal Aviation Administration

[Docket No. FAA-2001-10851]

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

Technology Administration

[Docket No. 011015251-1251-01]


Request for Commercial Requirements for U.S. Launch Range
Improvements and Modernization

AGENCIES: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA); Department of
Commerce, Technology Administration, Office of Space Commercialization.

ACTION: Request for Commercial Requirements for U.S. Launch Range
Improvements and Modernization.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Department of
Commerce (DOC) request inputs from the U.S. commercial space
transportation sector regarding U.S. launch base and range support and
modernization. Specifically, DOT and DOC seek to collect range support
and modernization requirements from current or future commercial users
of the Eastern Range at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, and
the Western Range at Vandenberg Air Force Base, California.

DATES: Submit requirements on or before November 30, 2001.

ADDRESSES: Please submit responses to this announcement to both the FAA
and DOC, Office of Space Commercialization. Your responses can be sent
in writing and in duplicate to the FAA and the Office of Space
Commercialization, respectively, as follows: Docket No. FAA-2001-10851,
Docket Management System, U.S. Department of Transportation, Room Plaza
401, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Docket No.
011015251-1251-01, Office of Space Commercialization, Room 4805, U.S.
Department of Commerce, Herbert C. Hoover Building, 14th & Constitution
Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20230. If you wish to receive confirmation
that FAA and DOC received your comments, include a self-addressed,
stamped postcard.
    You also have the option to submit comments electronically through
the Internet to the FAA at http://dms.dot.gov. Information and/or data
considered to be proprietary should be labeled appropriately and should
not be filed electronically. You may review the public docket
containing responses to this announcement in person in the Department
of Transportation Dockets Office between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday
through Friday, except Federal holidays. The Dockets Office is on the
plaza level of the NASSIF Building at the Department of Transportation
at the above address. Also, you may review public dockets on the
Internet at http://dms.dot.gov.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kelvin Coleman (FAA), (202) 267-7972,
or Paul Eckert (DOC), (202) 482-4571.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The February 2000 White House report on the
Future Use and Management of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges
documented a national strategy to enhance and expand the government-
industry partnership for management and use of the Eastern and Western
ranges (EWR). This strategy included a recommendation to allow
commercial users of the Eastern and Western ranges adequate opportunity
to communicate

[[Page 53655]]

their requirements so they could be actively considered and factored
into Air Force decisions on range improvements and modernization.
Further, it was desired that an ongoing process for collecting,
communicating, and considering commercial requirements for EWR support
and modernization be established. Thus, the Departments of
Transportation and Commerce seek to work with U.S. commercial space
sector users of the EWR to collect commercial requirements, especially
those common to multiple users, for launch range support and
modernization. Responses to this announcement should include the
following:
    1. A detailed explanation of the requirement;
    2. technical and economic rationale, as well as, overall
importance; and
    3. key dimensions of performance, with threshold and objective
requirements if possible.
    A threshold requirement is a minimum acceptable value for a system
capability or characteristic, which, in the user's judgment, is
necessary to provide an operational capability. An objective
requirement is a value beyond the threshold that could have a
measurable and beneficial impact on the system capability,
supportability, or operational concept of employment. (For example,
``The imaging subsystem must be capable of maintaining coverage on
space launch vehicles from first motion through powered flight as a
threshold and orbital insertion as an objective.'')
    Subsequent to collecting these requirements, DOT and DOC will
consolidate and prioritize requirements, with consultation from the
commercial sector, and prepare a report. This report will contain
commercial requirements for EWR support and modernization, and will be
provided to the Air Force such that commercial sector requirements for
range support and modernization can be considered in the Department of
Defense (DOD) requirements process.
    This request is applicable to requirements for EWR support and
modernization only, and not to mission specific requirements that may
be appropriately handled via the Universal Documentation System (UDS),
per Air Force Space Command Instruction 21-104.

    Dated: Issued in Washington, DC, on October 17, 2001
Patricia G. Smith
Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation, Federal
Aviation Administration.
Bruce Mehlman,
Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, Department of Commerce.
[FR Doc. 01-26664 Filed 10-22-01; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4910-13-M
