http://astrobiology.arc.nasa.gov/upcomingevents/index.html

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [USEMAP:logo.gif]
   Home
   Latest News
   Roadmap
   Science Goals
   Technologies
   Missions
   Workshops
   Education
   Public Engagement
   Astrobiology Institute
   Our Web Awards
   Media Center
   Related Links
   Public Policy
   Questions
   References
   Search
   Biology at NASA
   Contacts
   Navagation Image
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

     Astrobiology: Events



         Wednesday, December 13, 2000, 3:00 p.m. Pacific (2300 GMT)
         Deep Space 1: Testing high risk, advanced technologies in flight
         It's time for school. But this school is like no other in the universe:
         You'll be able to attend class and earn college credit. NASA, the
         University of North Dakota, and LiveOnTheNet are teaming up to offer a
         one-credit short course presented by scientists and engineers at NASA's
         Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

         The course will consist of approximately 1 hour of presentation with 45
         minutes for question-and-answer. It's available both for credit and for
         non-credit.

         The class focuses on NASA's Deep Space 1 mission. The spacecraft has
         successfully tested 12 advanced technologies, such as artificial
         intelligence that permits the spacecraft to make its own decisions.
         Some of these technologies may prove essential for future astrobiology
         missions.

         December 11, 2000, 3:04 p.m. Pacific (2304 GMT)
         Live on the web: Shuttle Endeavor returns to Earth
         NASA TV's coverage of Shuttle Endeavor's latest mission concludes with
         Monday's landing. Watch the shuttle touch down live over the World Wide
         Web on NASA TV or on one of its mirror sites. Coverage begins at 10:00
         a.m. Pacific (1800 GMT), with landing scheduled at 3:04 p.m Pacific
         (2304 GMT). Check the NASA TV schedule for details and updates.

         The mission has completed major steps in constructing the International
         Space Station. The station will serve as an unparalleled research
         laboratory for understanding how Earth life responds to conditions in
         space.

         December 5-11, 2000
         Live on the web: Shuttle mission to space station
         NASA TV's coverage of Shuttle Endeavor's mission continues through the
         landing on December 11. Highlights include the astronauts' third
         spacewalk, on Thursday, December 7.

         Watch the mission live over the World Wide Web on NASA TV or one of its
         mirror sites. Check the NASA TV schedule for details and updates.

         The International Space Station will serve as an unparalleled research
         laboratory for understanding how Earth life responds to conditions in
         space.

         December 4, 2000, 1:00 p.m. Pacific (2100 GMT)
         Live on the web: NASA to announce major Mars discovery
         Today, scientists Dr. Michael Malin and Dr. Ken Edgett from NASA's Mars
         Global Surveyor will present what they describe as "their most
         significant discovery yet." Photographs taken by the spacecraft reveal
         what appear to be ancient lake beds on the planet's surface.

         Watch the news conference live over the World Wide Web on NASA TV or
         one of its mirror sites.

         Full text of NASA press release

         7:06 p.m. Pacific, November 30, 2000 (0306 GMT, December 1)
         Live on the web: Space shuttle blasts off
         Space Shuttle Endeavor sets off on its mission to the International
         Space Station on Thursday. Watch the countdown and launch live over the
         web on NASA TV, on NASA mirror sites, or on mirror sites from Yahoo! or
         Space.com. Coverage begins at 2:00 p.m. Pacific (2200 GMT).

         November 21-30, 2000
         Watch the sky: Jupiter and Saturn
         The rest of November is a great time to see Jupiter and Saturn. You
         can't miss them -- Jupiter is the brightest thing in the Eastern sky,
         and Saturn is the brightest it's been in twenty years. See Space.com
         for details.

         We Earthlings may have Jupiter to thank for our habitable home.
         Jupiter's enormous gravitational pull acts as a giant vacuum cleaner,
         sucking up comets and asteroids that might otherwise threaten Earth.
         Jupiter's four largest moons are visible with binoculars or a small
         telescope; at least two of them, Europa and Callisto, may harbor oceans
         of liquid water. Saturn's moon Titan has an atmosphere dense with
         methane and other organic molecules.

         10:24 AM Pacific (1824 GMT), November 21, 2000
         Delta II rocket lifts Earth satellites into space
         The Earth Observing-1 satellite will test technologies for future use.
         Spectroscopic technologies will study the Earth's ecosystems, helping
         astrobiologists to understand how ecosystems respond to environmental
         change. Technologies that allow satellites to fly in formation will
         make possible large arrays of space-based telescopes, such as the
         Terrestrial Planet finder.

         Watch the launch live over the web on NASA TV, NASA mirror sites, or
         the Spaceflight Now mirror site, or follow the countdown at the
         Spaceflight Now mission status center.

         November 21, 2000
         Leonids meteor shower: Last few stragglers coming in
         The Leonids meteor shower is well past its peak. But meteor activity
         remains moderately high at this time of year, particularly in the hours
         before dawn. Sky watchers may expect 3-5 meteors per hour on Tuesday
         morning, perhaps 8-10 per hour in the countryside, far from city
         lights. See Space .com for details.

         Meteors are of considerable interest to astrobiology because they may
         have carried the raw materials of life to Earth.

         Saturday, October 14, 2000
         FELLOWS' SCIENCE DAY 2000
         The Fellows of the California Academy of Sciences in collaboration with
         the NASA Ames Research Center and the SETI Institute are sponsoring an
         all day symposium on "Astrobiology"

         Monday, April 3 - Wednesday April 5, 2000
         Astrobiology Science Conference
         According to an Associated Press news report, the first annual
         Astrobiology Science conference drew 600 researchers -- three times the
         number expected.






   [spacer.gif]

                            Questions? Comments?

                         Responsible NASA Official:
                              Kathleen Connell

                          Designed and Curated by:
                           Symtech Corp. and NASA

   [spacer.gif]
