http://www.fdic.gov/about/diversity/index.html

   Skip Global Header FDIC Global Navigation Links

   Diversity

   Chairmans January 2001 Statement on FDIC Diversity Program
   On May 25, 1999, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Board
   of Directors approved its first comprehensive Diversity Strategic Plan.
   The plan was developed by FDIC employees across the country.

   "We want to set a national example by showing how we make the strengths
   of a diverse population and a diverse workforce work for the FDIC,”
   said FDIC Chairman Donna Tanoue. “Diversity is a business imperative
   for the Corporation. Trends and events in the financial services
   industry and in society at large affect the FDIC. The composition of
   the employee pool is dramatically changing as a result of the
   increasing diversity of our society. We are making those changes work
   for us when we honor the different perspectives of our employees and
   value the growing diversity of our Corporation."

   The FDIC defines diversity in the following manner: "Diversity is about
   who we are as individuals, both differences and similarities. The
   Corporation recognizes that its strength comes from the dedication,
   experience, and diversity of its employees and believes that, given the
   opportunity, each employee can make a difference. The FDIC is committed
   to promoting and supporting an inclusive environment that provides to
   all employees, individually and collectively, the chance to work to
   their full potential in the pursuit of the Corporation's mission."
   The FDIC’s Diversity Strategic Plan focuses on six areas:
     *

   Building commitment and developing awareness,
     *

   Enhancing corporate recruiting,
     *

   Creating developmental opportunities,
     *

   Enhancing the internal and external selection process,
     *

   Addressing benefits and workplace issues, and
     *

   Monitoring progress and establishing accountability.
   FDIC employees are expected to play an integral role in the plan’s
   success. "Every Corporation employee is ultimately responsible for the
   success of the diversity plan," Chairman Tanoue said. "Respect and
   cooperation are FDIC corporate values. Every employee’s contribution is
   necessary to achieve an atmosphere of respect and cooperation. The FDIC
   Diversity Strategic Plan reinforces our corporate values and supports
   employees in achieving this goal."

   Last Updated 01/04/2001 ODEO@fdic.gov

   Sitemap | Search | Help | Home
