http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/products.htm

   NIST Products & Services


     Much of our support to U.S. industry is in the form of products and
    services. To help you find the products and services you need, we've
   grouped information on the most-often-requested ones here. If you don't
     see what you're looking for, contact our Public Inquiries Office at
                    (301) 975-NIST or inquiries@nist.gov.
   Assistance to smaller manufacturers - Small to mid-sized manufacturing
   firms can get help in solving business and technical problems from the
   NIST Manufacturing Extension Partnership. The MEP network has outreach
       centers in every state to help manufacturers with productivity,
     modernization, information technology, and other issues that affect
   their ability to compete in the global marketplace.
     Calibrations - NIST calibration services help makers and users of
      precision instruments to achieve the highest possible levels of
   measurement quality and productivity. These services directly link a
        customer's instrument or transfer standard to national and
   international standards.
      Databases - NIST customers can purchase a wide variety of highly
    accurate scientific and technical databases through the NIST Standard
   Reference Data Program. A number of popular NIST data collections, such
   as the Chemistry WebBook and Physical Reference Data, are available for
   free on the World Wide Web.
     Laboratory accreditation - Public and private laboratories can
   demonstrate their competence to perform tests and calibrations in a
    specific field by earning accreditation in the National Voluntary
   Laboratory Accreditation Program.
   Measurement and standards research - Researchers in NIST Laboratories,
    located in Gaithersburg, Md., and Boulder, Colo., conduct research in
    physical and engineering sciences. The labs respond to industry needs
   for measurement methods, tools, data, and technology. NIST researchers
     collaborate with colleagues in industry, academic institutions, and
   other government agencies.
   NIST Research Library
     Publications - This page links to NIST publications. Included is a
   database of NIST technical publications, the NIST Journal of Research,
   other NIST publications, and information on ordering NIST publications.
   Quality guidelines - NIST manages the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality
     Award which recognizes organizational performance excellence. This
   prestigious award does far more than recognize annual winners. Since it
    began in 1988, the Baldrige criteria for performance excellence have
   guided thousands of organizations worldwide in assessing and improving
   their overall performance.
     R&D funding - NIST's Advanced Technology Program provides multiyear
       co-funding for high-risk, high-payoff R&D projects sponsored by
   individual companies or industry-led joint ventures. Another potential
   funding source is the Small Business Innovation Research Program. SBIR
     grants fund proposals by small businesses for R&D efforts matching
   areas recommended annually by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
   Software - This page offers freely available NIST software programs,
   including programs to help evaluate and test software, to model fire
   and smoke plumes, and to allow personal computers to set their clocks
   to the NIST atomic clock.
   Standards - Descriptions of and links to NIST's standards information,
   tools, and activities are given on this page.
   Standard Reference Materials - A Standard Reference Material is a
   NIST-produced measurement tool designed to ensure the accuracy of
   measurements in industry, manufacturing, medicine, environmental
    monitoring, and research. NIST produces and sells more than one
   thousand different SRMs.
   Weights and Measures - How do you know that a gallon of milk actually
    contains one gallon? NIST's Office of Weights and Measures works to
   assure a uniform system of weights and measures in the United States.
    Accuracy in weights and measures gives consumers confidence in the
   marketplace and assures fair competition among businesses.



   See also: Work with Us, How to Contact NIST, A-Z Subject Index, NIST
                                 Home Page

                           Date created: 9/6/00
                          Last updated: 10/31/01
                        Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
