http://www.oshpd.ca.gov/boardcomm/index.htm

   State of California Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development
   [USEMAP:oshpd_tabs.gif]
   Welcome
   About Us
   Directors Office
   Boards & Commissions
   Business Opportunities
   Employment Opportunities
   Grants & Scholarships
   Health Facility Construction
   Health Facility Financing
   Health Manpower
   Healthcare Data Resources
   Products and Publications
   Quality & Access to Healthcare
   Rural Healthcare
   Site Search

                 BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, COUNCILS & FOUNDATIONS

     OSHPD is supported through a number of Boards and Commissions who
     advise the Director on the administration of its programs.

     Advisory Loan Insurance Committee (ALIC) - recommends to the
     Director of OSHPD approval of Cal-Mortgage Loan Insurance proposals
     submitted by nonprofit health care facilities wishing to obtain
     private financing to develop or expand their services in communities
     throughout California. In addition, commencing in January 2000, the
     ALIC also will be providing the Director of OSHPD with policy advice
     on the Program.  This is a citizen advisory committee with experts
     in the field of health facility construction, financing, and
     operations.

     California Health Policy and Data Advisory Commission (CHPDAC) -
     advises the Office and Agency on health policy and health
     information issues. The Commission consists of seven committees
     which include: Health Data and Public Information Committee, AB 524
     Technical Advisory Committee, Health Economics Committee, Cesarean
     Section Work Group, Appeals Committee, Committee to Advance Patient
     Privacy and Care and Public Information Committee.

     Health Manpower Policy Commission - assists the Office in
     administering the Song-Brown Program. The Commission establishes
     standards and contract criteria for family practice training
     programs to train primary care physicians assistants and nurse
     practitioners training programs; reviews and makes recommendations
     on applications for program funding; designates areas of medical
     underservice; and advises the Office on other related matters as
     appropriate.

     Health Professions Education Foundation - originated from OSHPD and
     is now a nonprofit public benefit corporation established for the
     purpose of soliciting funds from the private sector and providing
     financial aid to economically disadvantaged students. The Foundation
     oversees the administration of two funds established by State
     legislation: the Health Professions Education Fund and the
     Registered Nurse Education Fund.  For further information about this
     foundation, please contact them directly at (916)653-0860.

     Hospital Building Safety Board (HBSB) - advises the Director of
     OSHPD on the administration of the Hospital Facilities Seismic
     Safety Act and act as a board of appeals with regard to seismic
     safety and fire and life safety issues relating to hospital
     facilities.



             Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development
        Welcome | About Us | Director's Office | Boards & Commissions
              Business Opportunities | Employment Opportunities
            Grants & Scholarships | Health Facility Construction
                 Health Facility Financing | Health Manpower
            Healthcare Data Resources | Products and Publications
       Quality & Access to Healthcare | Rural Healthcare | Site Search

                 What's New | Calendar of Events | Contacts
                         Site Map | Links | Comments

                            Go to OSHPD HOME PAGE
                             Go to CA HOME PAGE
                              Go to TOP OF PAGE

                Privacy Policy | E-mail the OSHPD Webmaster.

                        Revision Date: July 09, 2001
