http://www.eeo.ihs.gov/download/DiscrimComplaint.pdf

   MANUAL: Personnel Chapter Series CC--Commissioned Corps Personnel
   Manual Part 2--Commissioned Corps Personnel Administration DEPARTMENT
   OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Chapter Series CC26--Conditions of Service
   Subchapter CC26.1--Officers' Responsibilities and Conduct Personnel
   INSTRUCTION 6--Equal Opportunity: Discrimination Complaints Processing
   CONTENTS Section Subject Page A. Purpose and Scope . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . 2 B. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 2 C. Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . 3 D. Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . 3 E. Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
   F. Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 G.
   Personnel Actions and Equal Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . 15 H.
   Freedom from Reprisal or Interference . . . . . . . . . . . 15 I.
   Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 J.
   Privacy Act Provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 EXHIBIT
   I. Equal Opportunity Flow Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page 2
   PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CC26.1 Section A. Purpose and
   Scope 1. The purpose of this issuance is to state policy and procedures
   relating to Equal Opportunity discrimination complaints processing for
   officers of, and applicants to, the Commissioned Corps of the Public
   Health Service (PHS). 2. Members of the PHS Commissioned Corps who are
   assigned or detailed to another agency or organization may only file a
   complaint under this procedure when the subject of the complaint is a
   matter under the control of the Department of Health and Human Services
   (HHS). For matters not under the control of the HHS, the officer shall
   file his/her complaint with the agency or organization to which
   detailed, in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement between the
   HHS and that organization. 3. PHS commissioned officers detailed to the
   United States Navy, Marine Corps, Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard,
   remain subject to the law of the Armed Forces to which detailed. Equal
   opportunity complaints filed by these officers will be processed in
   accordance with the procedures of the Service to which detailed. 4.
   This procedure is applicable only to complaints that arose on or after
   November 13, 1998. Complaints based on incidents that occurred prior to
   November 13, 1998, and filed in a timely manner, will continue to be
   processed in accordance with the Title VII EEO procedures. Section B.
   Background 1. The PHS Commissioned Corps is composed of about 6,000
   active-duty officers. The mission of the Corps is to provide
   highly-trained and mobile health professionals, who carry out programs
   to promote the health of the Nation, understand and prevent disease and
   injury, assure safe and effective drugs and medical devices, deliver
   health service to Federal beneficiaries, and furnish health expertise
   in time of war or other national or international emergencies. As one
   of the seven Uniformed Services of the United States, the Commissioned
   Corps is a specialized career system designed to attract, retain, and
   develop health professionals who may be assigned to Federal, State, or
   local agencies or international organizations to accomplish its
   mission. 2. Officers are appointed to respond to national emergencies.
   During periods of peace and non emergencies, officers are assigned
   duties to meet the needs of the Service. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
   SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL
   INSTRUCTION 6 Page 3 The Commissioned Corps is structured along
   military lines, to provide PHS with the necessary flexibility in
   personnel management and deployment to achieve its primary mission. In
   accepting a Commission, an officer agrees to serve wherever the
   exigencies of the Service may require and is subject to reassignment.
   3. On November 13, 1998, the President signed the Health Professions
   Education Partnerships Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-392). This law
   amended the PHS Act by including the following provision: Active
   service of commissioned officers of the Service shall be deemed to be
   active military service in the Armed Forces of the United States for
   purposes of all laws relating to discrimination on the basis of race,
   color, sex, ethnicity, age, religion, and disability (42 U.S.C.
   213(f)). The effect of this law is to overturn the decisions handed
   down in Federal court cases which held that commissioned officers of
   the PHS were Federal employees covered by anti-discrimination
   legislation. Section C. Authority 1. Section 215 of the Public Health
   Service Act (42 U.S.C. 216). 2. Commissioned Corps Personnel Manual,
   INSTRUCTION 1, Subchapter 46.1, "Equal Opportunity," of this manual.
   Section D. Definitions As used in this INSTRUCTION, the following terms
   have the meanings indicated: 1. Affected Parties. The complainant(s),
   any alleged discriminating official(s), and the management official(s)
   with jurisdiction over the organizational segment in which the subject
   matter of the complaint arose. 2. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR).
   ADR describes a number of techniques which provide alternatives to the
   traditional mechanisms -- negotiations and litigation -- for resolving
   an equal opportunity conflict. ADR techniques are generally voluntary,
   consensual and convened by a neutral party. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
   HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page 4 PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6
   EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CC26.1 3. Commissioned Corps Liaison. An officer or
   an employee designated by the Operating Division (OPDIV) or Program as
   the resource person on commissioned corps personnel issues. 4.
   Complainant. A commissioned officer or an applicant for appointment to
   the PHS Commissioned Corps who initiates a complaint of discrimination.
   5. Complaint. A written allegation of discrimination or reprisal based
   on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or to a limited extent,
   age or disability, filed for processing, in accordance with this
   INSTRUCTION. 6. Day. For the purpose of this section, the term day
   refers to calendar day. 7. Prohibited Discrimination. Any action,
   omission, or use of language that results in the adverse treatment of a
   person because of his/her race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
   or to a limited extent, age or disability, as well as actions or
   omissions or use of language that constitute harassment or reprisal. 8.
   EEO Counselor. A person who has been designated by the HHS OPDIV or
   Program to assist in the informal resolution of issues relating to
   equal opportunity of the PHS Commissioned Corps officers and applicants
   to the PHS Commissioned Corps. 9. EEO Officer. A designated official
   with responsibility to manage EEO programs. 10. Equal Opportunity.
   Consideration and fair treatment based on merit and capability without
   regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or to a limited
   extent, age or disability, for all members of, and applicants to, the
   PHS Commissioned Corps, in factors such as appointment, training,
   career development, and any other personnel practices that might affect
   the members opportunities and work environment. 11. EEOPG. Equal
   Employment Opportunity Programs Group, Department of Health and Human
   Services. 12. Equal Opportunity Review Board (EORB). Is a board which
   is appointed by the Surgeon General to review complaint files and
   recommended decisions of the OPDIV or Program on as needed basis. The
   Board shall consist of senior level officers and civilian employees in
   GS-14 and above who have been nominated by their respective OPDIVs or
   Programs. The nominated individuals will have an appropriate level of
   training and/or experience in equal opportunity regulations and
   policies. EORB members will be appointed for terms of one, two, or
   three years. The composition of the board will be diverse and will
   consist of representatives from the PHS and programs to which officers
   are detailed. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645
   10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 Page 5 13.
   Federal Personnel. Civilian employees or members of the Uniformed
   Services. 14. Surgeon General's Policy Advisory Council (SGPAC)
   Representatives. Senior level officers from the HHS OPDIVs and other
   Federal agencies to which officers are assigned, who were designated to
   provide advice to the Surgeon General on commissioned corps policy
   matters. 15. Report of Investigation (ROI). ROI consists of all
   documents and information collected or developed during the equal
   opportunity investigation, such as affidavits of the complainant,
   alleged discriminating officials and witnesses, and copies of records,
   policy statements, and regulations. 16. Reprisal. An unlawful act to
   restrain, interfere, coerce, or discriminate against an individual who
   is involved or participating in the discrimination complaints process
   (i.e., a complainant, his/her representative, or witness, or an agency
   official responsible for processing discrimination complaints). Section
   E. Policy 1. General. All members of, and applicants to, the PHS
   Commissioned Corps are afforded equal opportunity when considered for
   appointment, career development, promotion, assignments, relocation,
   assimilation, retention, and separation, consistent with laws and
   regulations affecting the PHS Commissioned Corps and the needs of HHS.
   [However, as members of a Uniformed Service, commissioned officers are
   not covered by laws related to discrimination on the basis of race,
   color, sex, ethnicity, age, religion, and disability.] Every officer or
   applicant shall be free from any and all restraint, interference,
   coercion, or reprisal on the part of fellow officers or employees,
   supervisors, or other management officials in lodging any allegation
   relating to discrimination, filing or pursuing any complaint or appeal,
   appearing as a witness or serving as a representative or as an advisor
   to a complainant, or other action related thereto. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
   AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page 6 PERSONNEL
   INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CC26.1 All personnel are accountable
   for their actions and are responsible for preventing and reporting
   incidents of discrimination and/or reprisal. It is the policy of the
   PHS Commissioned Corps to provide equal opportunity to all qualified
   professionals; to assure that there is no discrimination in the
   workplace based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or to a
   limited extent, age [1]/ or disability [2]/; and to resolve or
   adjudicate promptly and fairly all allegations relating to
   discrimination. Violations of this policy shall be brought to the
   attention of the appropriate manager, administrator, or EEO Officer.
   The equal opportunity complaint procedure is designed to correct
   inequities in a manner consistent with Commissioned Corps policies and
   procedures. To this end, officers filing complaints must identify the
   desired outcome. However, compensatory damages and attorney fees are
   not available to commissioned officers. 2. Right to Representation A
   complainant may have a representative of his/her own choosing at all
   stages of the pre-complaint and complaint processes. The complainant
   and his/her representative, if employed in HHS, may have a reasonable
   amount of official time in which to prepare his/her presentation. For
   representation to be effected, the complainant must designate his/her
   representative in writing. Such designation must be provided to the EEO
   Officer and shall become a part of the complaint file. Cancellation of
   such designation must also be made in writing by the complainant.
   ________________________________ [1]/"No individual who has attained
   the age of forty-four shall be appointed to the Regular Corps, or
   called to active duty in the Reserve Corps for a period in excess of
   one year, unless (A) he has had a number of years of active service (as
   defined in section 211(d) equal to the number of years by which his age
   exceeds forty-four, or (B) the Surgeon General ..... determines that he
   possesses exceptional qualifications not readily available elsewhere in
   the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, for the
   performance of special duties with the Service or (C) in the case of an
   officer of the Reserve Corps, the Commissioned Corps of the Service has
   been declared by the President to be a military service, (42 United
   States Code 209(a)(3))." [2]/Applicants to the PHS Commissioned Corps
   must meet medical appointment standards to be commissioned, and must be
   physically fit. Active-duty officers may be separated if found unfit to
   perform duties of their office and grade. Officers who are found fit
   for duty shall be provided equal opportunity and may not be subject to
   prohibited discrimination. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S.
   PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6
   Page 7 A representative who is an active-duty commissioned officer or
   an employee on duty status within HHS, must advise his/her supervisor
   of the complainant's request for services as a representative. Any
   limitations on representation imposed by the supervisor must be in
   writing and addressed to the EEO officer. The proposed representative
   shall advise the complainant immediately in writing of the limitation
   on or the bar to service, and the reasons therefor. The complainant may
   appeal the restriction to the Director, Equal Employment Opportunity
   Programs Group, (EEOPG), HHS. 3. Legal Counsel. A complainant may, at
   his/her own expense, obtain such counsel as may be considered necessary
   to prosecute a complaint. 4. Affirmative Action Plans. PHS commissioned
   officers shall be included in affirmative employment plans covering
   Federal personnel of the HHS. 5. Other Activities. All persons involved
   in activities related to such matters as, but not limited to,
   recruitment, appointment, selection, assignment, career development,
   professional improvement, promotion, relocation, retention, and
   separation of members of, or applicants to, the PHS Commissioned Corps
   shall so conduct themselves as to assure that there is no
   discrimination against any individuals because of race, color,
   religion, sex, national origin, or to a limited extent, age or
   disability. A finding of discrimination may result in disciplinary
   action. Section F. Procedures 1. Informal Process. It is the intent of
   HHS that every effort will be made to resolve all allegations relating
   to discrimination through an informal process. Officers have 60 days
   after an offending incident or occurrence in which to reach an informal
   resolution, or to file a formal complaint. Although officers and
   applicants are encouraged to seek informal resolution, they are not
   required to do so before filing a formal complaint. Officers who wish
   informal resolution may either seek informal counseling through the
   OPDIV or Program EEO office or official, or may seek informal
   resolution through his/her administrative chain. If the case is near
   resolution, the periods for informal resolution and filing a formal
   complaint may be extended an additional 30 days by the EEO Officer. a.
   Rights and Responsibilities of the Officer If an officer chooses to
   seek informal resolution, he/she may pursue this by choosing one of the
   following two options. To maximize the benefit of the informal process,
   officers should initiate this process, promptly, preferably within 15
   days of the incident. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S.
   PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page 8 PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
   CC26.1 (1) Consult an EEO Officer: Officers or their representatives
   may consult an EEO Officer and/or request an assignment of an EEO
   Counselor in their designated jurisdiction. In the OPHS regional
   offices, commissioned officer complainants may consult EEO counselors
   in the Office of the Secretary. The officer shall cooperate fully with
   the efforts of the EEO Counselor to provide advice, establish facts,
   and adjust matters giving rise to the allegations. Refusal of the
   complainant to cooperate may be construed as a failure to pursue the
   complaint and may result in the dismissal of the complaint. (2)
   Administrative Chain: Officers or representatives shall consult the
   first line supervisor designated for the jurisdiction in which the
   alleged act(s) of discrimination occurred. An officer may seek informal
   resolution of a complaint by discussing the matter with his/her
   supervisor. If resolution is achieved, the affected parties will reduce
   the terms of the resolution to writing. If the matter is not resolved
   at this level, the officer may request ADR or choose to elevate the
   complaint to the second line supervisor. The Commissioned Corps Liaison
   or other senior commissioned officer may be consulted. An officer who
   has sought informal resolution of a complaint, but has been
   unsuccessful in resolving the matter within the administrative chain in
   his/her OPDIV or Program, may request ADR through the OPDIV or Program
   EEO Officer. (3) File formal complaints. Officers may file a formal
   complaint with Subsection F.2., below, the formal complaint process. b.
   Responsibilities of the EEO Counselor (1) All requests for counseling
   shall be honored. The EEO Counselor shall explain the complaint
   procedure to the complainant, inform him/her of the ADR option, and
   facilitate resolution. (2) When the alleged discrimination is in an
   area subject to the EEO Counselor's supervisory or management
   jurisdiction, or the matter is one in which the EEO Counselor has in
   any way participated, the case shall be referred to the EEO Officer.
   The reasons for referral shall be stated in writing and made part of
   the original EEO Counselor's records. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
   SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL
   INSTRUCTION 6 Page 9 (3) If the complainant elects the ADR process, the
   EEO Counselor will refer him/her to the EEO Officer, who will make the
   appropriate referral. If the parties achieve a resolution, the terms of
   the agreement will be reduced to writing, and all parties involved will
   sign the agreement. A copy of the agreement will be provided to the EEO
   Officer. If a resolution is not achieved, the EEO Officer will be
   notified in writing. (4) The EEO Counselor identifies the issue(s) and
   basis(es) of the potential complaint, and conducts an informal inquiry
   into the issues raised by the complainant. (5) The EEO Counselor shall
   keep careful and accurate records of the counseling activities and
   prepare a final report for submission to the EEO Officer. Note:
   counseling records will be developed and maintained for commissioned
   corps officers in the same manner as for civil service employees. (6)
   The EEO Counselor shall conclude all counseling and attempts to achieve
   informal resolution within 30 days of initial EEO Counselor contact. If
   the case is in ADR or near resolution, the timeframe may be extended an
   additional 30 days. The EEO Counselor shall arrange a final interview
   with the complainant at which time the EEO Counselor shall inform the
   complainant of the findings and of the proposed resolution to his/her
   complaint, and that: (a) the interview concludes the counseling
   activity; (b) if the complainant is dissatisfied with the resolution of
   the allegations, he/she may now file a formal complaint and obtain an
   investigation of the matter; and (c) the formal complaint shall be made
   in writing and submitted to the EEO Officer within 60 days of the
   incident, unless an extension to the complainant was granted. If
   extension is granted due to ongoing informal process, the formal
   complaint shall be filed within 10 days of receipt of the EEO
   Counseling report, or within 10 days of the conclusion of ADR. c.
   Responsibilities of Supervisors or Management Officials. The supervisor
   or management official shall: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
   T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page 10 PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL
   OPPORTUNITY CC26.1 (1) Maintain a work environment free of
   discrimination and harassment. The official shall also maintain open
   lines of communication and exercise a good faith effort to resolve
   issues and complaints to include the ADR option; (2) Maintain
   confidentiality; (3) Advise the commissioned officer or the applicant
   of his/her rights and responsibilities; (4) Document the resolution in
   writing, if issue is resolved; and (5) Not take any reprisal or
   retaliation action against an officer for exercising his/her rights
   under the equal opportunity policy. d. Responsibilities of the
   Commissioned Corps Liaison or Other Senior Commissioned Officer. Upon
   request, the Commissioned Corps Liaison or other senior officer shall
   be responsible for: (1) Providing consultation on commissioned corps
   policies and procedures; and (2) Assisting with informal resolutions.
   2. Formal Complaint Process. Officers who elect to file a formal
   complaint, must do so within 60 days after the offending incident. If
   the complaint is in ADR or near resolution, the timeframe may be
   extended an additional 30 days. Officers may also request an extension
   when they are prevented by circumstances beyond their control from
   submitting the matter within the time limit. a. Rights of the Officer
   or Applicant. The officer or applicant shall have the right to: (1)
   Present a complaint to designated officials without fear of
   intimidation, reprisal or harassment; (2) Receive current and updated
   information on Commissioned Corps equal opportunity policies; (3)
   Receive a fair review of his/her complaint. b. Responsibilities of the
   Officer Filing a Formal Complaint. The officer shall: DEPARTMENT OF
   HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL
   OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 Page 11 (1) Write and sign a formal
   discrimination complaint and submit it to the EEO Officer. The
   complaint shall include statement of the issues, the date of the event
   and the basis of the discrimination, and identify the desired outcome
   or remedy that an officer is seeking. The discrimination complaint
   shall be addressed to the EEO Officer for the organization in which the
   alleged act of discrimination occurred. The complaint shall also be
   submitted in a narrative form, and shall include information on any
   attempts taken to resolve the matter at the informal level; (2) Follow
   procedures and cooperate with the investigation; (3) Notify the EEO
   Officer if a counsel is retained or a representative is appointed; (4)
   If officer files late, the officer must submit a justification along
   with documentation of the circumstances leading to the delay. c.
   Responsibilities of the EEO Officer. The EEO Officer: (1) Shall review
   each formal complaint to verify jurisdiction over the complaint. If the
   EEO Officer does not have jurisdiction, the complaint shall be
   forwarded promptly to the appropriate OPDIV or Program EEO office; (2)
   Shall extend the time limit for filing a formal complaint when the
   complainant shows that he/she was prevented by circumstances beyond
   his/her control from submitting the matter within the time limit, or
   the complainant demonstrates that he/she was engaged in ADR; (3) May
   issue a preliminary decision to dismiss a complaint in whole, or in
   part, because: (a) it was not filed in a timely manner; or (b) the
   issues raised do not relate to equal opportunity or the denial of equal
   opportunity based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
   reprisal, or to a limited extent, age or disability; (c) the
   complainant failed to cooperate with equal employment procedures; or
   (d) of a separation of the complainant from PHS Commissioned Corps; or
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page
   12 PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CC26.1 (e) the complaint
   is an abuse of the process. (4) Shall, if the complaint is dismissed,
   issue a Notice of Dismissal for identified issues within the complaint
   by: (a) notifying the complainant within 30 days of receipt of a formal
   complaint about the dismissal; and (b) ensuring the notice will include
   a statement that the complainant may, within 15 days of a decision,
   appeal the decision to the Surgeon General. The Surgeon General shall
   issue a final decision on the appeal within 30 days of receipt. (5)
   Shall, after accepting a formal commissioned corps discrimination
   complaint, notify the Director, EEOPG, of such complaint in the next
   monthly report. The EEO Officer shall be responsible for reporting
   commissioned corps equal opportunity complaints in a manner consistent
   with reporting complaints filed by other Federal personnel; (6) Shall
   establish a complaint file for each complaint accepted under this
   INSTRUCTION. The complaint file shall contain all documents or records
   pertaining to the matter of complaint; (7) Shall be responsible for
   designating, training, and assigning competent and impartial complaint
   investigators; (8) Shall prepare the ROI which shall consist of a
   detailed, complete, and accurate written record of all the information
   developed in the investigation which supports or refutes the
   significant charges made by the complainant; (9) Shall furnish the
   complainant with a copy of the ROI within 90 days of the filing of the
   formal complaint. The timeframe may be extended for a period not to
   exceed 45 days if agreed upon by the affected parties. Failure to
   provide the officer with a copy of the investigative file within the
   specified timeframe will result in the complainant having the right to
   request the SGPAC Representative to perform an expedited review of the
   file, (see subsection d., below); (10) Shall notify the complainant
   that he/she has 30 days to review, comment, and supplement the ROI and
   seek informal resolution of the case; and DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
   HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
   PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 Page 13 (a) Resolution: If a resolution is
   achieved, the EEO Officer shall reduce it to writing and make it part
   of the complaint file. The EEO Officer will provide the affected
   parties with a copy of the resolution, and a copy will be provided to
   the EEOPG as well. The Director, EEOPG, may direct further
   investigation into such matters as patterns of discrimination or other
   factors related to the conditions giving rise to the complaint; (b)
   Withdrawal: A complainant or his/her representative may withdraw a
   complaint by submitting a signed statement which shall become part of
   the complaint file. Such a withdrawal is final and the complaint cannot
   be revived; (c) Recommended Decision: Within 30 days of receiving
   comments from the complainant, the EEO Officer shall prepare his/her
   recommended decision for transmittal to the Surgeon General. A copy of
   the recommended decision shall also be provided to the complainant and
   the SGPAC Representative. If the EEO Officer fails to forward the
   complaint file within the above specified timeframe, the complainant
   may forward the formal complaint and supporting documentation to the
   Surgeon General. (11) Shall maintain the complete complaint file in
   accordance with the applicable system of records maintenance. d.
   Responsibilities of the SGPAC Representative: The SGPAC Representative
   shall: (1) Maintain an open door policy at all stages of the complaint
   to encourage resolution; (2) Submit comments on the recommended
   decision to the EEO Officer for inclusion in the case file for
   transmittal to the Surgeon General. e. Responsibilities of the EEOPG.
   The EEOPG shall provide staff support to the Surgeon General in the
   management of equal opportunity cases. f. Responsibilities of the
   Surgeon General: Upon receiving the complaint file, the Surgeon
   General: (1) Shall review the complaint file, with the recommendation
   from the OPDIV EEO Officer, and, within 30 days, shall: DEPARTMENT OF
   HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 Page 14 PERSONNEL
   INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CC26.1 (a) render a final decision
   based upon the record; or (b) request the EEO Officer to conduct such
   further investigation as is deemed necessary and appropriate for a
   well-reasoned decision, and within 30 days of receipt, render a final
   decision based upon the record as supplemented; or (c) convene a
   Commissioned Corps EORB, described in Section D.12., of this
   INSTRUCTION, to review the record and make a recommendation. The EORB
   will make a recommendation and submit it to the Surgeon General within
   30 days. The Surgeon General will render a final decision within 30
   days of receipt of recommendation from the EORB. (2) May determine
   whether the complaint constituted an abuse of process. If the Surgeon
   General finds a misuse of the EO process based on (i) evidence of
   multiple complaint filings, or (ii) allegations that are similar or
   identical, lack of specificity, or involve matters previously
   addressed, or (iii) evidence of circumventing other administrative
   processes, for example, retaliating against the agency's personnel or
   processes, or the overburdening of the EO complaint system, the Surgeon
   General shall take appropriate corrective measures, including
   disciplinary actions. (3) Shall submit his/her decision in writing and
   ensure that the decision is being communicated to the affected parties.
   The Surgeon General shall then forward the complete complaint file to
   the EEO Officer of jurisdiction. (4) Shall take appropriate
   disciplinary action when finding that allegations of discrimination
   against a commissioned officer are substantiated. (5) Shall transmit
   the findings to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Human Resources,
   HHS, along with any recommendation of any disciplinary action when
   finding that allegations of discrimination against a civil service
   employee are substantiated. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
   T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION
   6 Page 15 Section G. Personnel Actions and Equal Opportunity 1. A
   supervisor or a management official who is aware that a commissioned
   officer is engaged in equal opportunity activities may notify the EEO
   Officer of planned or pending personnel actions affecting that officer;
   2. The filing of an equal opportunity complaint shall not preclude the
   initiation or continuance of any administrative action; 3. When an
   allegation of discrimination is made in connection with an adverse
   action, the question of discrimination may be presented together with
   the adverse action for review and recommendation by the Board which
   considers the adverse action; 4. When allegations of discrimination are
   raised in connection with a grievance, processing of the grievance
   shall be terminated with respect to those allegations regarding
   discrimination. 5. When allegations of discrimination are raised in
   connection with a Board for Correction of commissioned corps records,
   the Board for Correction shall dismiss the application to allow an
   officer to exhaust an EO and other relevant administrative processes.
   Section H. Freedom From Reprisal or Interference 1. A complainant who
   alleges reprisal in connection with the presentation of a pending
   complaint under this INSTRUCTION, may add reprisal as an additional
   basis with the original complaint. The charge must be in writing,
   contain all pertinent facts, and submitted to the EEO Officer within 15
   days of the date of the alleged occurrence. The EEO Officer shall
   conduct an inquiry into the charge and include the findings and
   recommended decision with the case record for transmittal to the
   Surgeon General. 2. Allegations of reprisal that are filed after the
   recommended decision on the case has been transmitted to the Surgeon
   General shall be processed as a new complaint. 3. A representative or
   witness, who alleges reprisal due to participation in an EO complaint
   under this INSTRUCTION, may file a separate complaint under applicable
   regulations. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645
   10/13/99 Page 16 PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION 6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CC26.1
   Section I. Miscellaneous 1. A complainant may withdraw a complaint of
   discrimination at any time by a memorandum addressed to the EEO
   Officer. The EEO Officer shall notify the Director, EEOPG, in writing,
   of the withdrawal together with a copy of the complainant's memorandum
   of withdrawal. 2. After a formal complaint is submitted, if new
   relevant information is identified, it shall be included in the
   processing of the complaint. However, the complainant bears the burden
   of proof that this information is relevant and could not have been
   included in the original presentation. Section J. Privacy Act
   Provisions Personnel records are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974.
   The applicable system of record is 90-90-0009, "HHS Discrimination
   Complaints Records, HHS/OS/ASPER." DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
   SERVICES T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99 CC26.1 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PERSONNEL
   INSTRUCTION 6 Page 17 EXHIBIT I DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
   T.S. PHS-CC 645 10/13/99
