http://drugcaucus.senate.gov/about.html

                                 [seal.jpg]


                                 [home.gif]

                                 [about.gif]

                               [hearings.gif]

                                [reports.gif]

                               [speeches.gif]

                                [intern.gif]

                                 [links.gif]

                               [aboutban.gif]


                                   Purpose

   The Caucus was created to monitor and encourage the U.S. government and
   private programs seeking to expand international cooperation against
   drug abuse and narcotics trafficking, and promote international
   compliance with narcotics control treaties, including eradication. As a
   formal organization of the Senate, the Caucus has the status of a
   standing committee. It has subpoena power and is authorized to take
   testimony of witnesses and to produce books, records, papers, and
   documents that it deems necessary. In the past it has dealt with
   international cooperation, eradication, trafficking, interdiction,
   border control, drug strategies, assessments of Federal programs, and
   money laundering issues.

   The Caucus has held numerous hearings over the years and has issued a
   number of reports on U.S. narcotics control policy. The primary
   responsibilities of the I.N.C.C. have involved monitoring of compliance
   with international narcotics control treaties and agreements, and
   oversight of U.S. counter narcotics policy and activities.


                                Establishment

   The United States Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control
   (also known as the Senate Narcotics Caucus) was originally called the
   United States Commission on International Narcotics Control, when it
   was established on August 16, 1985 by the Foreign Relations
   Authorization Act for fiscal 1986 and 1987.^1

   Pursuant to the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act of 1986 (PL
   99-151), the name of the Commission was changed to the United States
   Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control, effective November
   13, 1985. (The House had requested the name change because it would
   more accurately reflect the membership of the group, given that no
   House Members were to be appointed to it.)


                                 Membership

   The group's authorizing legislation (PL 99-93) provided that the
   Commission draw its membership from the Senate and from experts in the
   private sector.  Specifically, the group was to be composed of 12
   members, seven Members of the U.S. Senate appointed by the President of
   the Senate, and five members from the private sector appointed by the
   president of the United States.  Four of the seven Senators, including
   one designated as Chairman, were to be selected from the majority party
   after consultation with the Majority Leader, and three, including the
   Member designated as Co-chairman, were to be selected from the minority
   party, after consultation with the Minority Leader.  The five
   Commission members selected from the private sector were to be
   appointed by the President after consultation with the Members of the
   appropriate congressional committees.  The appointment of private
   citizens was discontinued after 1987 in accordance with the group's
   redesignation as the U.S. Senate Caucus on International Narcotics
   Control.

                   Present Members of the Narcotics Caucus

   Senator Charles E. Grassley (R-IA) Co- Chairman

   Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) Chairman

   Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL)

   Senator Bob Graham (D-FL)

   Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH)

   Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA)

                        ^1  PL 99-93 (99 Stat. 455.).
