http://wcda.noaa.gov/noaacda/cdahist.htm

   The Wallops Command and Data Acquisition Station was built in 1965 on
   ten acres of land leased from NASA Wallops Island. The site was once
   part of a nine hole golf course belonging to a US Naval Air Station
   (NAS Chincoteague). The Navy relinquished the property to NACA (the
   National Advisory Committee on Aeronautic s), NASA's forbearer, in the
   late 1950's.

   The Station became operational in January, 1966, with a staff of 46
   personnel. It was one of the few completely new technical government
   enterprises to be staffed entirely by government personnel from its
   inception. The first operational Meteorological satellites, ESSA 1 and
   ESSA 2 were launched on February 3 and 28 of the same year. (ESSA, the
   Environmental Science Services Administration, was the pre-1970
   forerunner of NOAA).

   The heritage of these first polar orbiters was the original ten TIROS
   (Television and infrared Observational Satellite) satellites dating
   back to April 1, 1960 and built by RCA. Only the last two TIROS
   satellites were launched as polar orbiters. The others, although in
   circular low earth orbits, were inclined to the equator by 48 and 58
   degrees and were spin stabilized such that the instruments saw the
   earth only during brief periods of their orbits. The Instrumentation of
   later NOAA polar orbiters relied heavily upon the experience gained
   from NASA's NIMBUS satellites, launched between August, 1964 and
   October, 1978.

   Within the first three months of operations, CDAS technicians reduced
   the entire NASA TIROS ground station (located at NASA Wallops) to a
   half dozen equipment racks, integrated them into the ESSA ground
   station and operated both series of satellites, until the demise of
   TIROS 9 in early 1967.

   The NASA Applications Technology Satellites, specifically ATS-1,
   launched in December of 1966 and ATS-3, launched in November of 1967,
   conclusively proved the value of geosynchronous observational platforms
   for meteorological use and laid the groundwork for the present GOES
   series. Although the instrumentation of these satellites, built by
   Hughes Aircraft, was primitive by today's standards, they were
   remarkable in several respects. They were among the first to achieve
   geosynchronous orbit, ATS-3 transmitted color imagery, and both were
   exceptionally long lived. Even after the imaging instruments failed
   (10/72 for ATS-1 and 10/75 for ATS-3), they were used by NOAA as
   weather facsimile (WEFAX) transponders until December 31, 1978. As
   ATS-3, its fuel depleted, drifted westward over the Pacific, it was
   used by several schools and universities as a VHF transponder between
   islands for at least ten more years.

   In 1968, the first geosynchronous receive capability was installed at
   Wallops to process and record ATS imagery and telemetry. Liaison was
   established between the CDA Station and the NASA STDN Station at
   Rosman, NC and eventually ESSA/NOAA took over complete control as NASA
   fulfilled its commitments. These first scanning telescopes were small,
   with about a six inch mirror and were mounted on the outer periphery of
   the satellite, instead of concentrically with the satellite spin axis.
   The entire telescope assembly moved +/- 10 degrees north/south as the
   satellite rotated at 100 rpm.

   As the telescope scanned the earth, the approximate 10 km resolution
   data from the visible detectors was relayed to the earth via an analog
   FM transmission link. On the ground, the data was processed and
   recorded on magnetic tape for dissemination. These tapes formed the
   basis for subsequent geosynchronous satellite meteorological analysis.
   Needless to say, the experience gained from these early experiments
   proved invaluable for all elements of the foundling National
   Environmental Satellite Service.

   As plans proceeded for NOAA's formal entry into operational
   geosynchronous satellites, the Wallops CDAS operations building was
   expanded fifty feet to the south in 1970, providing an additional 2500
   square feet of operations floor space. At this time, five senior
   Wallops technicians were assigned to the project to provide the
   necessary liaison to insure a smooth transition into the new operation.

   SMS-1 (Synchronous Meteorological Satellite-l), built by Philco/Ford
   was successfully launched on May 7, 1974 and was followed by six months
   of intensive testing, analysis, and operational scenario development.
   It is interesting to note that the original operations scenario, when
   envisioned in the late 1960's, was planned around one satellite
   transmitting a few images a day, interleaved with periods of WeFax and
   satellite ranging. Well before the first launch, provisions for two
   operational satellites were in place and shortly thereafter, the daily
   routine expanded to 48 twenty minute images and ten minute WeFax
   chips/ranging periods, on half-hour cycles. The output doubled after
   the launch of SMS-2 on February 6, 1975. The first fully NOAA funded
   satellite, GOES-1, was launched on October 16, 1975. The Wallops team
   quickly became fully immersed, not only in operations, but in
   innovative operational/systems improvisations and modifications to
   enhance and insure continuous, reliable data throughput.

   What started as research operations, RISOPS (Rapid Interval Scan
   Operations - 15 minute imaging) and RRSD's (Research Rapid Scan Days 3
   minute imaging), became operational in 1976, enabling researchers and
   meteorologists to better characterize and predict severe short term
   thunderstorm/tornado and longer term hurricane conditions. During the
   same period, Data Collection System and WeFax operations expanded
   dramatically.

   Wallops provided training, technical, and logistics support for ESA
   (European Space Agency) personnel before and during the 1979 FGGE
   (First Global GARP Experiment), when The US ] loaned GOES-1 to the
   World Meteorological Organization (WMO) for a year's use at 57.8° E.
   Longitude, over the Indian Ocean.

   GOES-4, built by Hughes Aircraft and the first of the present
   generation of GOES satellites, was launched on September 9, 1980. The
   latest of Santa Barbara Research Center's instruments not only
   introduced the multi-spectral IR imaging capability, but added
   atmospheric sounding of temperature and water vapor as well.
   Westinghouse, who had built all the image processing ground systems
   since ATS-1, also built the experimental ground system designed allowed
   a 70 day proof-of-concept test to provide insight into system integrity
   and operational viability.

   As it turned out, the 70 day test stretched into almost six years of a
   seven-day-a- week, sixteen-hour-a-day "transparent" experiment
   (transparent, at least most of the time to operational products users).

   With the advent of another operations building expansion, almost
   doubling its size, and significant new ground systems, built jointly by
   Westinghouse and Integral Systems Inc, the new products became
   operational in 1986. In the meantime, Wallops technicians designed,
   built, and installed the sophisticated interfaces necessary to
   integrate the stand-alone experimental equipment with multiple
   operational systems in order to accommodate simultaneous
   experimental/operational requirements. In conjunction with Scientists
   at the University of Wisconsin's Space Science Engineering Center
   (SSEC), Wallops was also instrumental in establishing the best use
   scheduling of the satellite's capabilities, which remains largely
   intact. Considering the fact that the single experimental ground system
   controlled the satellite instrument and that any failure degraded
   operational commitments, the success of the project stands as a tribute
   to all the many organizations involved.

   Today, Wallops personnel are on the threshold of new satellite
   activities, being committed to the imminent installation of systems
   designed to provide operational capabilities with ESA's METEOSAT and
   with those systems already installed in anticipation of the long
   awaited GOES-I.
