http://critcorr.ncd.noaa.gov/critcorr2.htm

                          crtcor1.jpg (30253 bytes)

                            Marine Chart Division

                           clrbar.gif (2009 bytes)

             Welcome to the Critical Chart Corrections Web Site

                        Disclaimer - Please read carefully

   This service provides advance notification of critical chart
   corrections identified and originated by NOS cartographers. Critical
   chart corrections include information on hazards to navigation or other
   information considered essential for safe navigation, e.g. channel
   conditions, bridge and cable clearances, regulatory changes.
   Information provided by this web site must not be viewed as a
   substitute for either the United States Coast Guard (USCG) Notice To
   Mariners (LNM) or the National Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA)
   Notices to Mariners (NM). Published aid to navigation changes and other
   important navigation information published in USCG and NIMA notices are
   not available on this web site. However occasional aid to navigation
   corrections may be included if originated by NOS.

   Critical chart corrections posted on this web site are forwarded each
   Friday to the USCG and NIMA for inclusion in their LNM and NM
   respectively.

   How To Use This Web Site:

   Chart corrections are available on the table of contents frame three
   ways:
     * Chart Search,
     * USCG District Search, and
     * USCG District Reports linked to weekly corrections forwarded each
       Friday to the USCG and NIMA.

   Additionally, NOS Coast Pilot corrections can be retrieved using the
   Coast Pilot links on the table of contents frame:
     * Coast Pilot 1-3,
     * Coast Pilot 4-6, and
     * Coast Pilot 7-9.

   NOS has 25 charts that overlap one or more USCG Districts. Use the
   Multiple District link for a listing of these charts and associated
   USCG Districts. A general information link is available to provide
   additional information and "Tips" for receiving and using the data on
   this web site.

   Your comments on this service and other Office of Coast Survey
   Activities are welcome.

   This site was last updated on : Friday, January 25, 2002

   Hit Counter
