http://www.ruraljob.cahwnet.gov/defaulthome.htm

                  California's Focal Point for Rural Health

   [flex.gif] The energy challenge facing California is real. For more
   information on how you can help, click here.  The California Health and
   Human Services Agency (CHHSA) encourages practical and feasible energy
   saving measures while considering the health and safety of clients,
   workers and family members.
   For an energy conservation message from California Health and Human
   Services Agency Secretary Grantland Johnson,   click here.

                            Our Mission Statement

    The mission of the California Rural Health Policy Council is to formulate
and establish rural health policy for the State of California, to provide a
focal point for discussion of rural health policy issues within the
California Health and Human Services Agency, to receive suggestions and
recommendations from rural health constituencies, and to improve services
provided to rural health providers.  The Council promotes and supports
collaboration, communication, and networking among State agencies, rural
constituency organizations and rural providers.




   News Flash



     * The next Public Meeting of the California Health Policy Council
       will take place on Friday, March 22, 2002 at the California Chamber
       of Commerce in Sacramento.  More details to follow.


     * The Technology Opportunity Program (TOP) of the Department of
       Commerce, will make approximately 40 grants and award $12 million
       this year.  Details, as well as an online grant application form,
       are available on this link.


     * Implementing Telemedicine:  The Big Picture  January 29, 2002, 8:00
       a.m. - 4:30 p.m.  Telemedicine Learning Center at UC Davis
       Sacramento, CA  An overview of a successful telemedicine program.
       For more information and registration materials, contact Kendra
       Graham at 916/734-4698 or klgraham@ucdavis.edu




       Check out our Funding and Announcement pages for more important
                                information!

     Disclaimer: A hyperlink to another organization's Uniform Resource
                                Locator (URL)
   does not constitute an endorsement of the products and services of such
                               organizations,
           including the information presented on their websites.

   Last updated:
