http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/

   Skip Navigation Links

   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   National Center for Infectious Diseases
   Site-wide links


   Specialty Sites
   Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal
   Travelers' Health
   Surveillance Resources
   DPDx: Parasitology Diagnostics
   Teachers' Tools
   Student Resources


   Search NCID
   Search for:
   _________
   Search
   Advanced Search
   Leave site comment by following this link.
   Infectious Disease Information
   1. Browse the complete infectious disease index.

   [pick from the A-Z index...] GO
   2. Concerned about food or pets and diseases? Have a similar question?
   Visit one of our topic pages!
   [pick a topic or interest area...] GO
   About NCID: Divisions and Programs

   AIDS, STD, and TB Laboratory Research
   Arctic Investigations
   Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases
   Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Program (proposed)
   Global Migration and Quarantine (formerly Quarantine)

   Healthcare Quality Promotion (formerly Hospital Infections Program)
   Parasitic Diseases
   Scientific Resources
   Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases
   Viral and Rickettsial Diseases
   Viral Hepatitis (proposed)
   Our organization
   Programs, activities, mission, and current special initiatives
   CDC's strategic plan
   Preventing Emerging Infectious Diseases: A Strategy for the 21st
   Century
   NCID fellowships and training
   Opportunities for you
   Features
   Laboratory Fellowship, Emerging Infectious Diseases
   Application deadline, March 1, 2002!

   "Public Health Action Plan To Combat Antimicrobial Resistance"
   Examine this blueprint for federal actions to address the emerging
   threat of antimicrobial resistance

   Need help on a school project?
   "Resources for Students" page can direct you
   News

   ICEID 2002 preliminary program
   Plenaries and panels for March 24-27 conference
   Anthrax and emergency information
   From the CDC Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response site
   Prevention: For You and Your Family


   Husband and wife enjoy holiday meal cooked to safe temperature

      Avoiding illnesses you get through food
      Food safety resources for everyone
      Handling "flu" season
      These sites help you know what to do
   Prevention: For Healthcare

   Patient safety
   Resources from Healthcare Quality Promotion
   Bioterrorism information for healthcare facilities
   Resources from control to treatment
   Bioterrorism-related articles from EID journal
   Selected articles

     Top of Page


   NCID Home | Disease Information | NCID Organization | Publications |
   Guidelines | Contact Us

   CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

   This page last reviewed January 10, 2002

   National Center for Infectious Diseases
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   Privacy Policy | Accessibility
