http://policy.house.gov/documents/statements/fight.htm

            The House Policy Committee Christopher Cox, Chairman

                  Printer-friendly version in Adobe Acrobat

             Policy Statement on Preserving Our Ability to Fight

                              November 8, 2001

       As September 11th and its aftermath are reminding us, the primary
   responsibility of the federal government is to protect the nation's
   security. Supporting our military, intelligence, and homeland defense
   is and always should be our first priority. Rapid, unsustainable
   increases in non-defense spending threaten our ability to protect
   American citizens and to respond to future threats.

                 Government Is Displacing the Private Sector

       Since 1990, the U.S. economy has grown by 70%. But during that same
   time, the federal government's tax collections from the private sector
   have increased 96%. As the growth of government has outstripped the
   growth of the economy that supports it, the federal government has in
   effect been displacing the private sector.

       Today, the federal government consumes $2 trillion annually, almost
   double what it consumed in 1990. Most of this growth in the federal
   government occurred during the Clinton administration. Whereas
   Presidents Reagan and Bush held real non-defense discretionary spending
   constant in real terms over 12 years, under Bill Clinton, the money
   spigots were opened. Just during Clinton's first two years in office,
   federal non-defense spending grew by 10%.

       When America ended the 40-year one-party rule of Democrats in
   Congress in 1994, the new majority succeeded temporarily in slowing the
   growth of spending. Indeed, in its first year, the new Republican
   majority not only slowed the growth of domestic discretionary spending,
   but actually cut it. Despite those efforts, however, the Clinton
   administration notoriously vetoed Congressional money bills that it
   said did not contain enough spending, and blamed Congress for the
   resultant government shutdown. As a result of the Clinton push for
   higher spending, non-defense discretionary spending exploded by 16%
   during the last three years of the Clinton administration.

       The new Bush administration has attempted to return to a policy of
   controlling the growth of spending. President Bush's initial 10-year
   budget provided for growth in government, but at a modest average
   annual rate of 3.8%. Even before September 11, however, the Washington
   spending crowd was resisting this fiscal discipline, and pressuring for
   more spending. Since the attacks that launched the War on Terrorism,
   the spending floodgates have opened.

       The immediate initiatives taken by Congress following September 11
   were vital to the national interest: disaster relief efforts in New
   York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania; emergency funding for health and law
   enforcement services; life support for the airline industry in the
   aftermath of the attacks; and public health measures against the recent
   anthrax attacks.

       But a host of new and increased spending has been proposed that is
   not remotely germane to the War on Terrorism. A potpourri of
   proposals—from bigger loan subsidies for shipbuilders, to new school
   construction, to expanded unemployment benefits, to more highway
   funding—has been advanced as a faux "response" in this time of crisis.
   Most recently, the Democratic Senate has used the present crisis to
   increase non-terrorist related spending by more than $4 billion. Such
   opportunism is not merely disingenuous; by draining limited resources
   from our highest priorities, it jeopardizes our security.

       Every new spending program represents taxes not spent to support
   our military and homeland defense. At the same time, every new program
   places new and greater tax burdens on the working men and women of
   America, at a time when we should be promoting economic growth. This
   makes it doubly wasteful. Worst of all, the insidious effects of
   runaway spending are often permanent: because each new program is
   automatically built into future budgets, the increased spending
   inflates the "baseline" budget from which further increases are then
   measured.

                     Time to Review Spending Priorities

       Instead of responding to September 11 with an orgy of undisciplined
   break-the-bank spending, now is the time for Congress to carefully
   review recent budget trends, and take action to ensure that our nation
   is on a fiscally responsible course that meets the new challenges and
   threats of the 21st century.

       Today, the majority of government spending is not even appropriated
   by Congress. Instead, mandates in existing law have put over two-thirds
   of our budget on autopilot. This so-called "mandatory" spending
   represents an abdication of the federal government's responsibility to
   allocate resources based on current information and new challenges.

       During the administration of President John F. Kennedy, defense
   spending accounted for 50% of all federal spending. "Mandatory"
   spending consumed less than one third of the total. By 2001, however,
   defense spending has shrunk to just 16% of federal spending. So-called
   "mandatory" spending, on the other hand, now consumes two-thirds of
   total spending.

       It is essential that Congress re-assert control over the federal
   budget, because mandatory spending is projected to consume an even
   larger share of the total in coming years. Failure to act will
   contribute to the long-standing shift in federal priorities away from
   national defense and homeland security.

       Likewise, as Congress begins to develop the framework of next
   year's budget, one-time expenditures related to the current crisis
   should not be used as an excuse to permanently increase the size and
   the scope of the Federal government.

                Lower Tax Rates, Not Higher Spending, Needed

       Today, our economy is suffering from a significant slowdown.
   Businesses are reducing their capital investment and laying off
   workers. America's economic policies must provide incentives to rehire
   workers and expand job opportunities, and get the country's economy
   moving again.

       By moderating income tax rates as well as reducing the so-called
   "capital gains" tax on savings and investment, we can offset some of
   the higher costs on workers and firms that have resulted from September
   11. High tax rates on work and investment discourage the very
   activities that make the economy grow. What's more, they are
   counterproductive: by slowing the growth of the economy, they reduce
   the tax base, decreasing government revenue.

       Eliminating the alternative minimum tax and reforming depreciation
   rules will likewise increase incentives to work and invest. These
   responsible tax law changes will both rejuvenate the economy
   immediately, and encourage long-term growth. By expanding the economy,
   we will put our country—and our government—in a better position to meet
   the challenges of both today and tomorrow.

               The Path to a Stronger United States of America

       In order to preserve our government's ability to respond to future
   challenges and threats, we must control government spending and
   encourage economic growth. Congress should take action today, while
   there is still time.

       Above all, Congress should control the growth of spending. Instead
   of creating costly new programs and subsidies that will increase taxes
   on the American people and risk a return to deficits, Congress should
   strictly enforce budgetary constraints and ensure that "mandatory"
   spending does not overwhelm our federal budget. All so-called
   "mandatory" programs should undergo regular review; many should be
   given sunsets. And Congress should, as the President has requested,
   moderate tax rates to encourage economic growth and protect government
   revenues in the wake of the terrorist attacks.

       We cannot foresee the future. We do not know today the threats and
   challenges that will confront us tomorrow. But with prudent action
   today, we can ensure that our national government will be strong enough
   to win the War on Terrorism, and flexible enough to respond to any new
   challenge.
