http://muller.lbl.gov/pages/IceAgespdf/Preface.pdf

   Preface A physical chill settled on the 14th century at its very start,
   initiating the miseries to come. The Baltic Sea froze over twice, in
   1303, and 1306±7; years followed of unseasonable cold, storms and
   rains, and a rise in the level of the Caspian Sea. Contemporaries could
   not know it was the onset of what has since been recognized as the
   Little Ice Age . . . Barbara W. Tuchman, A Distant Mirror, 1978 George
   Santayana said that those who do not study history may be condemned to
   repeat it. Nowhere is this more true than in climate. Truly amazing
   data are now availableÐdata that show that for most of the last million
   years the Earth has been in a colder state than now, with ice covering
   much of North America and Europe. This continuous ice age has been
   broken every 100,000 years or so by a brief ``interglacial''. We are in
   such an interglacial period now. It started about 12,000 years ago and,
   shortly afterwards, agriculture began and all of civilisation
   developed. History shows that such warm periods in the past lasted
   between 10 and 20 thousand years. Based on this, we should expect our
   present interglacial to end any millennium now. That is, of course,
   unless human-caused global warming preempts it. But don't interpret
   this as an argument in favour of global warming. Many scientists
   believe that the enhanced greenhouse e ect from fossil fuel emissions
   will yield a rise in temperature of 2±6 C in the ®rst 30 years of the
   twenty-®rst century. Such rapid changes have never been experienced by
   humans, not even during the rapid terminations of the past ice ages. As
   fertile regions become arid, and arid regions fertile, our survival may
   depend on the maturity of our political institutions to handle the
   world-wide disruptions that, as history shows, result from climate
   shifts. Nobody who has studied history could be optimistic. Ice or
   heat? Or somewhere in between? What is our future? The truth is, we
   don't know. Enormous research programmes are now under way to guide
   global climate models, the large computer-based programs that simulate
   the behaviour of the atmosphere, oceans and glaciers. It is hard to
   imagine a topic more important to the xii Preface economy of the world.
   But the models are only as good as the information we base them on.
   Much of the best information is in the paleoclimate records of the past
   million years. Fortunately, we are blessed with truly superb data. The
   history of climate has been preserved in ice, rock and in layers of
   sediment on the sea ¯oor. In the last quarter of the twentieth century,
   these amazing records have been collected at great expense. The
   enormous Deep Sea Drilling Project, and its successor Ocean Drilling
   Program, have brought back thousands of cores of sediment from around
   the world, with data going back millions of years. The glaciers of
   Greenland and Antartica have been penetrated, as have mountain glaciers
   near the equator, and have given us truly detailed information on the
   last few hundred thousand years. Analysis of sedimen- tary rock shows
   not only the most recent ice ages, but patterns of glaciation that took
   place hundreds of millions of years ago. In the 1970s and 1980s,
   scientists attempting to understand the phenomena of the ice ages
   reached a tentative conclusion: the driving mechanism for the cycles of
   glaciation was fundamentally understood. The key force, according to
   the theory, was insolation, the average amount of sunlight hitting the
   Earth. James Croll had proposed this idea in the 1860s, and Milutin
   Milankovitch had modi®ed and extended it in the early and mid 1900s. He
   proposed that the insolation in the northern hemisphere, with its
   predominance of the land mass, was dominant. The theory did not account
   for all the details of the data, but was believed to explain the
   fundamental behaviour. It appeared to be time to accept the theory and
   use it as a framework for future analysis. Now, at the beginning of the
   twenty-®rst century, it is a good time to take a new look at the
   subject. The enormity of new and excellent data has clari®ed many of
   the questions, if not the answers. Let us reexamine the data of the
   glacial cycles without prejudiceÐor, if that is impossible, at least
   minimum prejudice. The Croll/ Milankovitch theory has had remarkable
   success, but it also has remarkable problems. Can there be phenomena
   other than insolation that play central roles in climate? What are
   they? The key to understanding present climate may, indeed, lie in
   history. The data are full of tantalising clues. If only we were smart
   enough, the complete mathematical theory of climate would be evident to
   us all. The goal of this book is to present the relevant techniques for
   analysing the data, and maybe to inspire the reader to help untangle
   the mystery. But there are also many established ``facts'' that mislead
   us. Mark Twain was once reputed to have said, ``The trouble with most
   folks isn't so much their ignoranceÐit's knowing so many things that
   ain't so'' (. . . including the authorship of this aphorism. It wasn't
   Mark Twain, but Josh Billings, another nineteenth century humorist.).
   Indeed, the published paleoclimate record is full of misinformation and
   error, and just one misleading or incorrect clue can derail an entire
   investigation. It is hard to solve a jigsaw puzzle when some pieces
   have previously been forced into wrong locations. The scientist must be
   adept at recognising false analyses and premature conclusions. More
   than most, this book will draw attention to the kinds of mistakes that
   permeate the ®eld. There is a problem. Many of the key breakthroughs in
   our understanding of Preface xiii climate depend on certain arcane
   areas of mathematics and physics that are di cult to master. These
   include solar system perturbation theory and spectral analysis. Not
   only are most geologists and climate scientists unfamiliar with these
   ®elds, but so are most physicists and mathematicians. Spectral analysis
   is particularly important, since it has played a key role in the
   elucidation of mechanisms. But it is full of traps and potential
   biases. There is a bad history of otherwise good scientists reporting
   cycles that later were shown not to be present, ranging from
   non-existent pulsars to claimed phenomena linked to the sunspot cycle.
   The whole ®eld of ®nding and identifying cycles in geophysical data has
   a mixed reputation. It is easy to do a Fourier transform, but trickier
   to know what to make of the results. There are numerous excellent books
   on spectral analysis, including Spectral Analysis for Physical
   Applications, (Percival and Walden, 1993) or Spectral Analysis and Time
   Series (Priestley, 1981). But most of these are books that assume a
   love of mathematics and prior expertise in statistics; they can be very
   di cult for the beginner. At the other extreme, there are books that
   emphasise practical approaches with minimum theoretical background. One
   of the best of these is Numerical Recipes (Press et al., 1993). But
   these books are too general to give details relevant to paleoclimate,
   and they are often misleading since the spectra available in paleocli-
   mate are su ciently unusual that they bene®t from specialised methods.
   Our tone will be kept closer to that of Numerical Recipes than to
   Percival and Walden or Priestley. We will emphasise those techniques
   that are most applicable to paleocli- mate data, but skip most of the
   proofs. There are many important issues in the spectral analysis of
   paleoclimate that have not received direct treatment in the classic
   texts. Primary among these is the uncertainty in the time scaleÐnot a
   problem for typical physics or engineering data. The paleoclimate
   signal is often measured vs. depth, but all the theories address the
   signal vs. time. To translate from depth to time requires assumptions
   that can have signi®cant e ects on the interpretation of the data.
   Another issue that is barely mentioned, if at all, in many standard
   texts is analysis of spectral shape. Rules, such as the Cramer-Rao
   limit, are designed to describe the regions when unbiased measurements
   are possible. But what can you do when the limit is not satis®ed? Do
   you ignore the information contained in the spectral shape, or do you
   live with the bias and pull out useful information? Another topic
   frequently absent in the standard discussions of climate is the value
   of Monte Carlo simulations. This method has proved to be the most
   useful technique ever devised for understanding complex experiments in
   physics, and yet it has been little used in paleoclimate. The study of
   the ice ages is remarkably interdisciplinary. To be an expert in this
   ®eld, a scientist must have a comprehensive knowledge of geology,
   physics, glaciology, oceanography, atmospheric science, celestial
   mechanics, solar system astrophysics, cosmic rays, solar physics,
   interplanetary dust, climate modelling, spectral analysis and
   statistics. As a consequence, there are no real experts. Moreover, the
   subject matter is too diverse to allow a comprehensive treatment of the
   subject in any one text. This book, therefore, attempts to cover those
   aspects of the ice age that are critical in trying to deduce the origin
   of these climate events. A key issue is understanding how orbital
   changes of the earth relate to past climate. xiv Preface Our emphasis
   will be on the information that we can glean from spectral analysis,
   and not on understanding the interplay of the oceans and atmosphere
   that turn a celestial force into a climate variation. In fact, the
   evidence for the role of astronomy comes almost exclusively from
   spectral analysis. The seminal paper was published in 1976, titled,
   ``Variations of the earth's orbit: pacemaker of the ice ages'' (Hays et
   al., 1976). Their conclusions depended on spectral analysis, and yet
   spectral analysis is a discipline that makes many scientists
   uncomfortable. The strange result is the appearance of excellent books
   on paleoclimate, such as the recent (1999) book by Raymond Bradley,
   which are used as the basis for courses on paleoclimateÐand yet
   spectral methods are not discussed at all in the text. The term
   ``spectral analysis'' is not listed in the index. We will not try to
   cover the wealth of data that Bradley's book covers. Nor will we
   attempt to survey oceanography or its methods; for that see a text such
   as The Sea Floor (Seibold and Berger, 1996). Our emphasis instead will
   be to try to ®ll the gap, to try to give a working approach to the use
   of spectral analysis in paleoclimate data. Although we will touch on
   other climate indicators, our emphasis will be on oxygen isotopes,
   since those appear to give the most direct indication of the phenomenon
   known as the ice ages. We believe that the current paradigms in climate
   theory owe too much to historical accident. Some features in early data
   that seemed to point the way to a theoretical understanding were not
   veri®ed when subsequent higher-quality data became available. One
   example of this is the 19 kyr peak observed in the 1976 Pacemaker
   article. In subsequent oxygen isotope measurements, it has been very
   weak and, in many cases, completely absent. We will argue that its
   presence in the Pacemaker paper may have been no more than a
   statistical ¯uctuation. As the century turns over, the authors of this
   book are known for taking an iconoclastic view of much climate
   research. We have proposed that the 100 kyr cycle of the ice ages is
   driven by orbital inclination, and not by eccentricity, the prevailing
   paradigm. The purpose of this book is not to present our
   viewpointÐalthough it certainly will creep through at various places,
   and will appear in more strength in Chapter 7Ðbut we hope it will prove
   useful even to those who completely disagree with this theory. Our goal
   is to present the methods of analysis so that they can be used by
   anybody, particularly by those who have little prior experience in the
   spectral analysis of paleoclimate data. If Sherlock Holmes were around
   today, and if he had an interest in science (according to Arthur Conan
   Doyle, he did not), would the wealth of clues we have available now
   point him clearly to the answer? Would he say, ``It's elementary, Dr
   Watson,'' as he often did in the movie (but not the book) versions of
   his work? We don't know. But we think it is time to look at the data
   again, with open minds, as if for the ®rst time. Foreword This is an
   interdisciplinary book, lying at the intersection of geology and
   paleocli- matology with physics, mathematics and astronomy. Great
   advances in science often come from interdisciplinary frontiers, but
   this work is di cult because it requires that specialists in one ®eld
   learned the concepts, accumulated knowledge and ways of thinking of a
   di erent speciality. The study of the climate of the glacial Earth over
   the last couple of million years is one of the most active
   interdisciplinary frontiers of the present time, with discoveries and
   data pouring forth. Yet the signi®cance of these discoveries is not
   always clear, particularly their implications for global climate change
   in the near future. In order for the implications of paleoclimatology
   to be clearly understood, the emerging data must be carefully analysed
   with sophisticated mathematical tech- niques, properly applied, and
   interpreted in terms of the underlying physics and the astronomical
   driving forces. This requires that geologists and paleoclimatologists
   have or acquire an understanding of these very di erent but relevant
   ®elds of science. In this book, Richard Muller and Gordon MacDonald set
   out to provide the understanding of mathematics and solar-system
   astronomy that paleoclimatologists must have. In a widely held if
   rather unsophisticated view, the sciences should be arranged in a
   hierarchical order of merit, depending on the degree to which their
   subject matter can be treated mathematically. However, it is more
   useful to see the sciences as occupying a spectrum, with the simple but
   quantitative at one end and the complex but qualitative at the other.
   The di erence results from the nature of the subject matter, not the
   merit of the approach. Rigorous mathematical treatment is possible only
   in the absence of historical complications. In a physics experiment, it
   makes no di erent what the electron of interest was doing the day
   before yesterday; it always behaves as an electron should. At the other
   extreme, in sociology, history is almost everything; people behave in
   complex ways conditioned by millions of years of contingent,
   unpredictable and unrepeatable events. By dealing with individual
   particles, idealised objects and experiments sensitive to a single
   variable, physicists have come to the extraordinary realisation that
   Nature xvi Foreword behaves according to mathematical laws of the most
   exquisite elegance. Are we seeing deep into the very heart of Nature?
   Or is mathematics simply the best tool we have so far for approximating
   a still more subtle and sophisticated reality? Scientists long believed
   that the physical laws of Nature controlled everything in the Universe
   so completely that the future is predetermined and free will is an
   illusion. This concept has been overturned in the last decade or so by
   the emerging understanding of chaos, complexity and non-linear
   dynamics. It is appropriate that this new development began in ecology,
   a discipline well along towards the complex, qualitative, historical
   end of the spectrum. Midway along the spectrum is a group of
   disciplines, with no unifying name, but sharing the characteristic that
   their subject matter has been shaped by history, but not to the extent
   that rigorous mathematical treatment is impossible. Geology,
   geophysics, geochemistry, astronomy, astrophysics and cosmology thus
   bridge the gap which makes it almost impossible for a psychologist and
   a physicist to have a fruitful conversation. This book falls squarely
   in this bridging area of the sciences. Muller and MacDonald may be a
   uniquely quali®ed team for this e ort. MacDonald is the coauthor (with
   Walter Munk) of the classic book The Rotation of the Earth, A
   Geophysical Discussion. He has been the editor of the Journal of
   Atmospheric Sciences, the Journal of Geophysical Research, and Science.
   Muller is a physicist whose interests have always extended into the
   study of the Earth and the heavens. This is shown by some of his major
   contributionsÐthe discovery of the motion of the Solar System relative
   to the cosmic background radiation, the invention of accelerator mass
   spectrometry now routinely used in radiocarbon dating, the
   investigation of comet showers and periodicity in mass extinctions, and
   the recent determination of the history of cosmic bombardment by dating
   lunar impact-glass spherules. Each of these contributions clari®es some
   aspect of the history of Earth or the cosmos. What kind of history has
   that been? Has history been characterised primarily by unidirectional
   trends, or mostly by repetitive oscillations? Most geologists and
   astronomers would agree that both are involved. It may be more useful
   to add a third category, and see the history of the Earth as made up of
   sudden events, slow trends and cycles. In astronomy and cosmology we
   seen events such as the Big Bang and supernovas, trends like the cosmic
   expansion and the progressive conversion of light elements into heavier
   ones by fusion, and cydles like the rotation of galaxies and solar
   systems and the cycling of material through exploding and condensing
   stars. In geology, events include impacts, volcanic episodes, and jumps
   in plate con®guration; trends include the extraction of crustal
   material from the mantle and the gradual production of an oxygen- rich
   atmosphere by photosynthesis; and cycles range from the daily rotation
   of the Earth to the repeated opening and closing of the Atlantic Ocean
   on a 500 million-year time scale. How can these features of history be
   quanti®ed? Events like impacts and volcanic eruptions can be
   characterised by the statistics of recurrent intervals and magnitudes,
   and their physics is best understood in mathematical terms. Trends lend
   themselves Foreword xvii to the techniques of the calculus of rates.
   Cycles are, of course, best studied by the mathematical techniques of
   time-series analysis, going back to Fourier. The paleoclimatological
   literature is thus full of spectral plots, showing the importance of
   time cycles of di erent lengths observed in paleoclimate proxy data.
   The widely accepted Croll-Milankovitch theory that ¯uctuating climate
   conditions during the Quaternary glaciation have been driven by
   astronomical cycles is based entirely on time-series analysis of
   paleoclimatic and orbital data. And yet, time-series analysis is subtle
   and full of traps. Considerable mathe- matical sophistication is
   required in order to apply it without reaching incorrect conclusions.
   This new book is exactly what is needed in paleoclimatology for the
   interpretations of data on ancient climates to be really valid.
   Combining a theoretical presentation of the techniques with practical
   instructions and many useful Matlab recipes, and augmented with a new
   hypothesis for an astronomical climate driver, the book should be of
   the greatest use to practising geologists and paleoclimatol- ogists.
   Walter Alvarez Professor of Geology and Geophysics, University of
   California, Berkeley May 2000 Acknowledgements We are thankful to the
   many people who shared their insights with us, and who helped educate
   us on the many di erent areas encompassed by this book. We are
   particularly grateful to those who gave the manuscript a careful
   reading, and found many errors, especially Jonathan Levine, Daniel
   Karner, Ike Winograd, Richard Garwin and Walter Alvarez. This work was
   supported in part by the US Department of Energy Division of
   Environmental Sciences under contract number DE-AC03- 7BSF00098.
   Richard Muller is particularly grateful to the Ann and Gordon Getty
   Foundation for continuing to support his work as it wandered in an
   unpredictable path from Nemesis to the ice ages.
