http://www.dfg.ca.gov/licensing/alds/alds.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          DFG Home Page
                          LRB Home Page
                          Big Game Hunting
                          Commercial Fish Business
                          Commercial Fishing
                          Hunting
                          Lifetime License
                          Special Permits
                          Sport Fishing
                          Upland Game Birds
                          Waterfowl
                               [dfglogo1.gif]



   Department of Fish & Game

                         License and Revenue Branch

                     3211 S Street, Sacramento, CA 95816

                               (916) 227-2245



                                                        __________ search
                                                           (*)  My CA


   ALDS Information

   BACKGROUND

   The California Department of Fish and Game (DFG) values its customers
   and all who help us accomplish our mission of protecting and managing
   our beautiful State's diverse fish, wildlife and plant resources. In an
   effort to continue improving services we provide our customers, the DFG
   is in the process of developing and implementing an Automated License
   Data System (ALDS).

   The DFG has been researching and planning for an automated licensing
   system for the past decade and have now received the necessary
   resources and approvals to develop and implement the system. Many of
   our license agents and customers have been hearing about the DFG's
   plans for automating license sales throughout the years through
   letters, memos and newsletters, and are looking forward to the change
   from the current manual system.

   OVERVIEW

   The ALDS will improve service to our customers and streamline business
   processes for license agents. For many years the public has requested a
   streamlined, more efficient and simpler licensing system. Hunters and
   anglers want to be able to go to one location and purchase all sport
   fishing and hunting licenses quickly and easily. License agents want an
   easier way to sell and account for licenses. The ALDS will benefit both
   license buyers and license agents as:
     * license purchases will be faster and easier increasing efficiency
       and reducing wait times;
     * all sport fishing and hunting licenses and related items will be
       available through license agents, including those that were
       previously only available from a Department office (i.e., drawing
       entries and bear and deer tags);
     * license agents will never run out of inventory;
     * license sales will be available 24/7 by telephone or the Internet;
     * the license sales and accounting process will be quicker and
       streamlined by eliminating license inventory and sales reporting
       requirements; and,
     * information on license sales will be instant and collection of
       license revenue will be expedited.

   STATUS

   The DFG has received all the necessary approvals to purchase the State
   of Michigan's automated licensing system and contract with Electronic
   Data Systems (EDS) to modify the system to meet California's
   requirements. The DFG is in the development stage and expects to pilot
   the ALDS in August 2002 and will implement the system statewide in
   December 2002.

   QUESTIONS

   For additional information on the ALDS please see the ALDS Common
   Questions and Answers page.

                     Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
