http://www.pawb.uscourts.gov/chapter_11.htm

                               [titlebar.gif]



  Home

      Chapter 11 Information

                                     [aglarule.gif]

      Guidelines for Consensual Cash Collateral Orders

      Provisions that should be included

      Findings:

          1. That there has been compliance with Service requirements.
          2. That the Secured Creditor asserts priority lien in the cash
             collateral, together with a specific identification of the assets
             that ar or will generat cash collateral (i.e. cash on hand,
             proceeds of inventory sales, etc.), and the amount of the
             indebtedness allegedly secured.
          3. That Debtor has an immediate need for the use of cash collateral to
             perserve its asset, fund its business operation, purchase
             inventory, etc.
          4. Debtor reaffirmation of existing terms and conditions of existing
             financing documents with Secured Creditors.

      Relief:

          1. Grant and define adequate protection to Secured Creditor (and its
             successors and assigns) pursuant to §§ 361 and 363, including
             monthly adequate protection payments (if appropriate), subject to
             later allocation as to fees, interest and principal contingent upon
             results of § 506(a) motions, if any.
          2. Grant Secured Creditor replacement liens in post-petition assets to
             the same extent and priority as existed pre-petition.
          3. Grant Secured Creditor super-priority administrative claim to the
             extent that adequate protection proves inadequate.
          4. Provide for establishment of a segregated DIP account into which
             cash collateral should be deposited.
          5. Restrict use of cash collateral to pay specified categories of
             operating expenses, per budgets to be attached to Order or
             subsequently filed with the Court.
          6. Require that Debtor maintain insurance.
          7. Require submission of periodic (weekly, bi-weekly, monthly) reports
             regarding use of cash, aging of accounts receivable, etc.
          8. Equality of treatment for carve-outs as between professionals for
             the Debtor and professionals for the Committee of Unsecured
             Creditors (or other Committees of equal dignity).
          9. Provide that Order is sufficient and conclusive evidence of the
             priority and validity of the security interest in and liens,
             including replacement liens, on Debtor's assets granted to Secured
             Creditor without the necessity of filing, recording or serving any
             financing statements or other documents which may otherwise be
             required under federal or state law in any jurisdiction or the
             taking of any other action to validate or perfect the security
             interests and liens granted to Secured Creditor, but provided
             Secured Creditor may, in its discretion, file such financing
             statements or other documents with respect to such security
             interests and liens and that Debtor is authorized and directed to
             execute, or cause to be executed, all such financing statements or
             other documents upon Secured Creditor's reasonable request and the
             filing, recording or service.
         10. Identify the time period to which the Order is applicable and
             provide that even if authorization to use cash collateral expires,
             adequate protection/liens will continue to be effective
             until/unless otherwise modified by the Court.
         11. Set final hearing date and provide that documents relied upon by
             Secured Creditor in asserting perfected security interest be filed
             with the clerk by such date.

      Provisions that should not be included

          1. Stipulations as to the perfection, validity or priority of secured
             claims that are binding on any party other than the debtor, without
             affording other interested parties a reasonable time to challenge
             same.
          2. Stipulations which reduce the time period within which parties in
             interest can challenge the perfection, validity, priority or amount
             of secured claims to (i) less than 90 days from the engagement of
             counsel for the Committee of Unsecured Creditors or, if no counsel
             or no Committee is appointed, (ii) less than 120 days after the
             case is filed.
          3. In cases where the Secured Creditor asserts liens on accounts
             receivable pursuant to asset based revolving credit facilities,
             provisions which recharacterize the "use of cash collateral" into
             "post-petition advances," without regard to whether the so called
             "post-petition advance" is a new loan, or the use of a pre-petition
             receivable.
          4. Provisions which release potential claims or causes of action by
             the estate against the lender.
          5. Provisions which grant automatic relief from stay upon a material
             default under the cash collateral order (but secured creditor's
             entitlement to an emergency hearing in the event of a material
             default could be recognized).
          6. Provisions which grant cross collateralization on unencumbered
             assets, absent extraordinary circumstances.


      Please refer to the following link to the local forms page for blank
      disclosure forms.




      [ Home ]

   Last modified: April 18, 2001
