http://www-sage3.larc.nasa.gov/index2.html

   SAGE III Masthead Skip to content NASA Langley Research Center

   home introduction science Meteor mission ISS mission instrument
   outreach library data distribution
   Masthead shadow

                                  Foreword


   SAGE III is a fourth generation, satellite-borne instrument and a
   crucial element in NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS). Its mission is
   to enhance our understanding of natural and human-derived atmospheric
   processes by providing accurate long-term measurements of the vertical
   structure of aerosols, ozone, water vapor, and other important trace
   gases in the upper troposphere and stratosphere.

   Human-derived changes in climate and ozone threaten the health of our
   planet. They also threaten global economic development and the use of
   new technologies like high-speed aircraft.

   By understanding the effect of human activities on the atmosphere,
   national and international leaders can make informed policy that
   mitigates or prepares for future climate change.

   CAPTION: Space Shuttle sunrise over Pecos, Texas

   Space Shuttle sunrise over Pecos, Texas

   The photograph on the left shows a sunrise over Pecos, Texas, as
   photographed from the space shuttle.

   Clouds (blue-white) and the stratospheric aerosol layer (red) are
   clearly visible in this image.

   SAGE III measures the obscuration of the sun by the Earth's atmosphere
   from a geometry similar to that in this image.

   The dependence of the obscuration on the color of light and altitude
   permits us to derive vertical profiles of aerosol, ozone, and other
   trace species.

   Related web sites
   Langley Research Center Atmospheric Sciences Competency Langley
   Research Center Atmospheric Sciences Competency
   NASA Earth Observation System NASA's Earth Observation System
                              _________________

      NASA Langley Research Center - Radiation and Aerosols Branch
      Responsible NASA Official: Dr. Larry W. Thomason, Radiation and
      Aerosols Branch
      Document Curator: Daniel C. Mangosing, Jr., SAIC
      NASA Privacy Statement
