http://otexa.ita.doc.gov/function.stm

   For a much improved view, click here, or use Navigator 4, Communicator
   4, or Internet Explorer 4 with JavaScript and Style Sheets enabled.

   [getnavigator.gif] [getexplorer.gif]
   [\images\otexani6.gif]

   Deputy Assistant Secretary

   The Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) for Textiles, Apparel and Consumer
   Goods Industries oversees programs and strategies to improve the
   domestic and international competitiveness of the U.S.fiber, textile,
   and apparel industries, as well as industries which manufacture a wide
   range of consumer products. The DAS also serves as Chairman of the
   Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA), which
   determines when market disrupting factors exist in the domestic fiber,
   textile, and apparel marketplace. The DAS also administers U.S. textile
   quota agreements, formulates trade policy, performs research and
   analysis, compiles industry data, and promotes U.S. trade events for a
   whole spectrum of textile, apparel, and consumer goods.

   Office Director

   The Director of the Office of Textiles and Apparel undertakes general
   management and administration of the Office. Assists the Deputy
   Assistant Secretary in establishing goals and priorities for the
   Textile and Apparel program. Oversees the development of information,
   options and recommendations on a broad spectrum of issues for
   consideration by the DAS, including CITA policy, trade negotiations,
   export program priorities and administration of funding for technology
   grants. Administers textile program budget. Acts as CITA Chairman in
   DAS's absence.

   Trade and Data Division

   The Trade and Data Division recommends and implements trade
   classification schemes to implement the WTO Agreement on Textiles and
   Clothing and bilateral agreements; initiates and participates in fraud
   and transshipment investigations and participates in negotiations and
   consultations on matters of transshipment, classification and
   investigation; presents classification and investigation issues to the
   Office Director and Chairman of CITA; participates in GATT and Free
   Trade Agreement negotiations; assures import data quality by reviewing
   import data, identifying problems, by working with the Census Bureau
   and the U.S. Customs Service; conducts data investigations and
   reconciliations with foreign governments; conducts classification and
   categorization seminars for foreign governments; reviews and implements
   visa agreements; processes visa waivers; obtains descriptions and
   samples of imported textile and apparel products; plans and operates
   the Textile Information IADment System; and provides ADP, product
   identification and trade classification support for the International
   Agreements Division and Industry Assessment Division, including
   identifying need for support. The Trade and Data Division also
   identifies barriers to trade and maintains an inventory of foreign
   regulations affecting U.S. textile/apparel exports. TDD solicits
   textile and apparel exporters to advise us of any barriers or problems
   they encounter.

   Market Expansion Division

   The objective of the Market Expansion Division (MED) is to improve
   exports of U.S. textile and apparel companies in overseas markets.

   To expand export sales of U.S. made products the MED sponsors U.S.
   companies' participation in international exhibitions abroad, U.S. Solo
   Exhibitions, Trade Missions, and Export Seminars. MED offers
   event-related market research and provides export counseling.

   Industry Assessment Division

   The Industry Assessment Division evaluates the current state of the
   domestic fiber, textile and apparel industries; recommends the
   establishment of quotas to prevent market disruption; analyzes the
   economic impact of fiber, textile and apparel imports, import policies,
   regulations, and legislation on the fiber, textile and apparel
   industries and recommends appropriate action; assesses the impact of
   changes in trade policy and the U.S. textile and apparel program on the
   domestic industry; collects, develops, monitors, maintains, and
   disseminates economic data and information concerning fiber, textile
   and apparel markets and industries; and prepares data and economic
   analyses on these industries for publications, studies, briefing
   papers, speeches and reports.

   Agreements Division

   The Agreements Division is principally responsible for implementing
   textile and clothing agreements. Country Analysts instruct Customs to
   limit imports, require visas and make charges to limits for
   transshipments, and otherwise undertake specific provisions of the
   agreements. In most cases, and always if the directive affects current
   year charges, the directives are published in the Federal Register.

   Analysts also prepare Federal Register Notices announcing a "call". A
   call is a consultation request to a foreign Government for a discussion
   of U.S. imports from that country which are contributing to serious
   damage or actual threat thereof to the domestic industry, with a view
   to reaching a mutually agreed limit.

   The Agreements Division represents the Commerce Department in
   negotiations with the foreign Governments and provides briefing
   materials to the other CITA representatives assigned to negotiations.
   The negotiation positions are confidential. After signing of an
   agreement, the State Department makes a public release available.

   The analysts review the monthly "Performance Report" and make necessary
   adjustments and footnotes. In addition the analysts exchange data and
   information with local embassy officials of textile and apparel
   suppliers to the U.S. to ensure an open forum on issues.

   - Deputy Assistant Secretary
   - Office Director
   - Trade and Data Division
   - Market Expansion Division
   - Industry Assessment Division
   - Agreements Division
   - Go back to the OTEXA Home Page

   4322
