http://www.usinfo.state.gov/cgi-bin/washfile/display.pl?p=/products/washfile/latest&f=02012906.elt&t=/products/washfile/newsitem.shtml

                     International Information Programs
   Washington File
                              Washington File
                                  29 January 2002

        Transcript: Adm. Blair Praises Counterterrorism Efforts in SE Asia

   (Cites arrests in Singapore, U.S. troops in Philippines) (4650)

   The commander-in-chief of U.S. forces in the Pacific (CINCPAC) praised
   counterterrorism efforts in Southeast Asia, citing Singapore's recent
   arrests of suspected terrorists and the presence of U.S. troops in the
   Philippines, but stressed that countries must "bear down even more,
   work harder, cooperate more, pursue the intelligence."

   "One area I think we need to understand a lot more about is the
   connection between international terrorism, illegal migration, drug
   smuggling, piracy," Admiral Dennis Blair said in a January 28
   interview with Channel News Asia in Singapore.

   "We need to overcome some of the suspicions between and among our
   countries which sort of keep us from cooperating against this new
   threat," the admiral continued.

   Blair said the recent arrests of suspected terrorists in Singapore has
   made the Pacific Command feel safer, but added that "we can't stop
   right here."

   "[Singapore] Prime Minister Goh himself has said that there's more to
   do in terms of continuing to pursue these terrorist organizations to
   make sure Singapore and this whole part of the world is even safer,"
   he said.

   In general, Blair said, a new, proactive approach to combating
   terrorism has made the world safer.

   "I think after September 11th, we and many other countries of the
   region have gone over onto the offense. Most dramatically in
   Afghanistan, as everybody has seen, but I think Singapore's actions,
   the actions within the United States, we aggressively arrested
   terrorists and interrogated them for cells, have made a difference,"
   he said.

   Blair downplayed the proactive nature of the mission of U.S. troops
   being deployed in the Philippines to assist the Philippine government
   in combating Abu Sayyaf terrorists. "There's no question that this is
   a Philippine operation. They're in charge," he said. "It's Philippines
   units with Philippine officers under Philippine control with U.S.
   advisors in the advisory role."

   "It's also important to remember that this didn't start just
   yesterday," Blair noted. He mentioned that the United States trained a
   Philippine company to be more effective in hostage situations
   approximately a year ago, and he said he anticipates the United States
   will be providing more of such training.

   When asked how long he expected U.S. troops to be stationed in the
   Philippines, Blair replied: "I would say that it's going to be months
   but not years."

   Blair said the United States and Indonesia "are cooperating on
   international terrorism," but added that U.S.-Indonesia military
   relations will remain very much reduced "until the Indonesian armed
   forces do a better job of the accountability standards which are
   really expected of modern armed forces."

   Following is the CINCPAC transcript of the event:

   (begin transcript)

   UNITED STATES PACIFIC COMMAND

   TRANSCRIPT

   Adm. Dennis C. Blair
   Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Command
   Interview - Channel News Asia
   Singapore
   January 28, 2002

   Adm. Blair: Glad to be here.

   Question: Admiral, there is speculation that the war on terrorism was
   going to be directed at Sudan and Iraq but it seems to have shifted to
   Southeast Asia. Why is that?

   Adm. Blair: I think the first thing is that Afghanistan was probably a
   unique first phase of the war. There we had a government that was
   actively assisting, providing sanctuary for an international terrorist
   organization and military means were most appropriate there. I think
   if you look around the rest of the world, particularly in our part of
   the world, you don't see governments who are like the Taliban
   government really actively supporting the international terrorist
   organizations. So this next phase of the war I think is going to be
   much more a case of cooperating with countries in order to root out
   the terrorist infrastructure and terrorist organizations that are
   there. And virtually all other governments, certainly in our part of
   the world, are much more cooperative in that area. And the U.S. will
   primarily be involved in assisting those countries in ways that we can
   help -- those countries working with each other. Because I think we
   recognize this is really a common scourge.

   Question: Right. So would you say that the [war] has moved to
   Southeast Asia now?

   Adm. Blair: I'd say it's really moved worldwide, not just to Southeast
   Asia. Other countries you mentioned, I don't have day-to-day
   information because they're not really in my part of the world. But as
   I talk with my colleagues I know that the government of Yemen is
   taking action against terrorists in this organization and has received
   some assistance from the United States. There are conversations going
   on with the government of Sudan for us to take action. So I think it's
   wrong to think that chapter one was Afghanistan, chapter two is here,
   chapter three is here. I think what you're seeing are a bunch of
   simultaneous actions really suited to the particular country or the
   particular region. But Southeast Asia is certainly a region in which
   there are international terrorist organizations. The countries of the
   region are working effectively against them, cooperatively.

   Question: So the recent arrests in Singapore and the breakup of the
   organization. How has that impacted your command, the Pacific Command?

   Adm. Blair: It's made us feel safer, frankly, because we have a lot of
   our forces that come through here for visits. For example here in
   Singapore we had a carrier battle group scheduled to visit in late
   December; also one of our amphibious ready groups with a Marine
   expeditionary force on board. The Singapore government made that
   series of arrests in December, and when we took a look at that we
   figured that Singapore was even safer than it had been before. We went
   ahead with those port visits. The sailors who were here I talked to
   later, they had a great visit. They felt they were safe. So it's
   affected us positively. But I think we can't stop right here. Prime
   Minister Goh himself has said that there's more to do in terms of
   continuing to pursue these terrorist organizations to make sure
   Singapore and this whole part of the world is even safer.

   Question: What is the U.S. role for Singapore?

   Adm. Blair: Singapore is one of our strong supporters across a wide
   range of factions. As you know we have a very small number of forces
   who are actually here. They're all in terms of support, but our
   carrier battle groups stop here on the way. They're able to tie up at
   that wonderful new pier at Changi which Singapore built, and enables
   the sailors to be alongside a pier and not have to be out in a
   man-of-war anchorage. It means that we can do maintenance and
   transfers much more effectively there. When I landed at Paya Labar
   Airfield I saw another U.S. airplane that was on the ramp there in
   Singapore. It helps us as we move through the region to go on to other
   places. I think something that a lot of people don't know about is
   that we cooperate very well with the Singapore armed forces in terms
   of high technology aspects. Singapore has a very small but very highly
   technologically proficient armed forces and we work with them on some
   pretty cutting edge military technology applications which are in both
   of our interests.

   Question: Would you say collaboration has been stepped up?

   Adm. Blair: I'd say, if I had to characterize it, it's not new but
   it's more intense in the areas. And in the area of combatting
   terrorism they have really stepped up.

   Question: I'm sure you had a chance to view the tape that was found --

   Adm. Blair: Yes, I did.

   Question: How do you react to the tape?

   Adm. Blair: I react to that as sort of a suspicions confirmed. There
   are people out there who are actually making tactical plans against,
   to take actions which would cause damage both to American sailors and
   to our Singapore hosts in this country and it just makes we think we
   have to redouble our efforts to find them and take them out of action
   before they can hurt our people.

   Question: What are you doing?

   Adm. Blair: We, it's important to recognize that even before this tape
   we had the USS Cole attacked in Yemen. Before that, in Khobar Towers,
   Saudi Arabia, there was a truck bomb that blew up about 20 airmen who
   were stationed there. In between there was the attack on the U.S.
   embassies in Dar es Salaam and in Nairobi. So the armed forces of the
   United States and our official embassies and all have taken a lot of
   action to defend themselves. Putting bigger fences, standoff
   distances. I know anybody coming to our embassy here in Singapore has
   to sort of run a gauntlet unfortunately that we have to now that we
   didn't do before. So we were emphasizing protective measures pretty
   well. I think after September 11th we and many other countries of the
   region have gone over onto the offense. Most dramatically in
   Afghanistan, as everybody has seen, but I think Singapore's actions,
   the actions within the United States, we aggressively arrested
   terrorists and interrogated them for cells, have made a difference.
   And I think that we're all safer because our countries are going on
   the offensive ourselves now, not just waiting back behind a big wall
   or more standoff distances.

   Question: So being more proactive.

   Adm. Blair: I think being more proactive makes us safer.

   Question: Here in Singapore, are there concrete steps that we've taken
   to really set up security of American facilities as well?

   Adm. Blair: We've done some things internally in terms of our
   procedures, the way we provide inner security, we call it, where we
   have responsibility. Also talking with our Singapore counterparts and
   friends here we see increased Singapore security. I was happy to see
   my security here yesterday at Paya Labar as I made my way up to the
   gate. More guards, more barbed wire, more careful procedures. Those
   sorts of protective measures have been stepped up by -- And they are
   Singapore's responsibility, and they're not cheap. Every time you see
   one soldier out there on patrol there are five behind him in order to
   maintain that security. So we see Singapore taking those aspects.
   We've done some things within our ships in terms of our policies to
   make ourselves a tougher target. The net effect, plus the offensive
   actions, have been to I think make us all safer.

   Question: Admiral, moving on to the Philippines. By February you will
   have 650 U.S. troops for training?

   Adm. Blair: That's a rough number, but it will vary.

   Question: What exactly will be the role of the U.S. troops?

   Adm. Blair: Combating terrorist insurgent groups like the Abu Sayyaf
   Group is a complex operation. You need equipment, you need
   intelligence, you need training, you need good tactical doctrine and
   so on. Our effort is to assist the Philippines in that area. There's
   no question that this is a Philippine operation. They're in charge.
   Everything that we bring is in support of their actions. It's also
   important to remember that this didn't start just yesterday. About a
   year ago we trained a Philippine company to be more effective in
   hostage situations and that company is operating in the Philippines.

   Question: The light reaction company.

   Adm. Blair: The light reaction company, the LRC. It's up to the
   Philippines, but I anticipate we may well be doing more of that sort
   of training. We can provide intelligence, primarily technical
   intelligence, in which we have advantages to complement the human
   intelligence which is pretty well developed by the Philippines. You
   bring those together you get a much better picture of what's going on.
   We learned things in our operation against terrorist groups around the
   world and our special forces soldiers who will be working with the
   Philippines can bring to bear. The Philippines themselves of course
   have learned a lot. They've been working there in Basilan and Jolo and
   so on for months themselves.

   Question: But for all of the decade the government has not been able
   to stamp out the Abu Sayyaf.

   Adm. Blair: Uh huh.

   Question: So a question with the U.S. troops or U.S. intelligence or
   expertise can actually combat this?

   Adm. Blair: I think we have pretty smart, flexible, a lot of good
   people who learn pretty quickly and are generally pretty effective. In
   Afghanistan, for example, I can't tell you how many people came up to
   me before that happened and said Admiral, nobody can win in
   Afghanistan. Look at the British, look at the Soviets. That's just a
   pit that you'll never be able to be effective in. Right now you see in
   the Philippines, "remember General Pershing, remember the years
   earlier." My feeling is there's a renewed sense of urgency on the part
   of the Philippines. The international terrorist threat to all of us
   has given a new impetus to it. We've got smart soldiers who are very
   adaptive and they can, working with their Philippine comrades in arms
   who in my observation are also very good soldiers, can win this thing.

   Question: Is the edge technology, then Admiral?

   Adm. Blair: Certainly the U.S. has a technological edge but it's
   really not just owning the technology, it's using the technology. In
   Afghanistan, for example, you probably saw that wonderful picture of a
   special operations soldier on a donkey calling in with a satellite to
   B-52 airstrikes. It's blending technology with performance. The other
   thing that's very important in the Philippines, and Mrs. Arroyo said
   it very eloquently, it's a war on terrorism and a war on poverty. We
   in uniform cannot finally solve problems like the ones in the southern
   Philippines. It has to be economic development, social development,
   along with a better security region in order to be effective over the
   long term. So a big part of the Philippines program is not just going
   down with military forces but it's bringing in economic development to
   the people that will have some better life.

   Question: We have both heard the accusations that the U.S. troops are
   coming to the Philippines through the back door in the guise of
   training. Because if you had come in on a combat role that would be
   against constitutional restrictions. So you come in to train. How
   would that really work? Is the U.S. actually going to patrol with the
   Filipino troops? How would that work, Admiral?

   Adm. Blair: The U.S. troops that accompany Philippine commanders go as
   advisors to that commander. They are not running the show. The
   Philippine commanders make the decisions. They can ask for assistance.

   Question: But they have the right to self-defense.

   Adm. Blair: Yeah. I mean if you're caught in a firefight as a part of
   the team you help return fire with the people around you. But we're
   not having U.S. units under U.S. control fighting. It's Philippines
   units with Philippine officers under Philippine control with U.S.
   advisors in the advisory role.

   Question: But you would expect some sort of confrontation. Would the
   modus operandi be going to look for the hideouts, and obviously there
   will be some confrontations and exchange of fire? Would that be the
   MO?

   Adm. Blair: It will depend. You do have to anticipate that there will
   be, there has been shooting in Basilan in the past and I don't imagine
   it will all stop, so the U.S. soldiers will be with the command
   elements of the Philippine units and they will be participating in
   that command element.

   Question: But is that where the decision actually -- that point would
   be hard to determine whether there should be Filipinos, should be U.S.
   troops (inaudible) a single platoon.

   Adm. Blair: Right.

   Question: So in that sense you could say the U.S. troops will be
   playing more than a training role, but a combat role?

   Adm. Blair: I think you'll find that really the key is who's in
   charge. Who is giving the commands. That is clearly the Philippine
   chain of command. Let me set the numbers in perspective for you. For
   example, a Philippine battalion will have maybe 600 people. Assigned
   as advisors to that battalion will be on the order of 10 or a dozen
   people working with the command element primarily. So we don't have
   U.S. soldiers out in fire teams making assaults here. We have U.S.
   soldiers advising the command element of the 600 person battalion. Now
   if that command element where the U.S. advisors are located somehow
   gets involved in a firefight, then the U.S. soldiers do what the
   Philippine officers and soldiers on the left and right of them are
   doing. But it's not that U.S. soldiers are being used as any sort of
   an assault element or leading element. They're part of this larger
   Philippine structure which has the responsibility. So maybe I'm
   missing the point here, but for those of us who are involved in it
   it's very clear what the rules are, it's very clear what the rules of
   engagement are, and it's agreed by both governments and it keeps the
   Philippines in charge of this problem which is what President Arroyo
   wants and intends to do.

   Question: Will this fight be extended to, against the Islamic
   Liberation Front as well? Do you see that happening?

   Adm. Blair: Our advisors are against and supporters are against the
   Abu Sayyaf Group not against the MOR Islamic Liberation Front

   Question: And on roughly January 26th at the Exercise Cope Tiger
   opening ceremony in Singapore a U.S. official is quoted as saying that
   the U.S. is ready to do whatever it needs to do should Asian countries
   request help in fighting terrorism. How far will the U.S. go in
   helping Asia fight terrorism?

   Adm. Blair: Well, that was a nice forward-leaning statement by that
   particular official, and we know what he's saying. This is a common
   fight; that we are all threatened and we all have to contribute as
   much as we can to making our own citizens safe and those of our
   partners in this coalition. But the practical matter as we go into
   each of these situations the governments confer, they decide what is
   appropriate. We work out questions like the one we just discussed of
   how would forces be used and who would be in charge and what would be
   effective, and then we make a plan together. I anticipate that that
   would continue. I think that what we feel is a primary responsibility
   is of the governments concerned. It's not up to the United States to
   go into countries --

   Question: So you would be invited?

   Adm. Blair: We would be supporting in cooperation with the governments
   concerned, yeah.

   Question: Actually if Indonesia -- Some have said that Indonesia has
   seemed to be, because of all the political considerations, has been a
   bit tardy in responding to terrorist arrests and interests. President
   Bush has said, in what the White House calls its Bush Doctrine, we
   will not make a distinction between the terrorists who committed these
   acts and those who harbor them. We have to force countries to choose.
   If Indonesia continues to be slow in this anti-terrorism war, would
   the U.S. make Indonesia choose?

   Adm. Blair: No, President Megawati has visited Washington and talked
   with President Bush about our common efforts. I was in Indonesia last
   month talking with Indonesian officers about it. I think we both share
   the same goals against international terrorism. As you know, there is
   some lively debate about to what extent the Indonesian groups within
   Indonesia are tied with Afghanistan and al Qaeda and so on, and you
   get statements from the Indonesia group leaders that are sort of
   ambiguous themselves. You know, "I admire Osama bin Laden but I don't
   have any connection with him." So that whole swirl of debate is going
   on and it's a little confusing. But I think that the Indonesians
   recognize, and this is what I found during my visit, they have a big
   country lots of islands, lots of borders, lots of different groups
   within the country, and maintaining order within their country from a
   whole series of challenges is tough, whether it be controlling
   sectarian violence in Sulawesi or an insurgent movement in Aceh or
   whether it's taking care of illegal immigrants who come from Iraq all
   the way down on their way to Australia. So I think the Indonesians
   recognize that they've got a tough challenge of controlling what's
   going on in their country. International terrorism is an aspect which
   is one more threat and I think they're working on it.

   Question: Was there already a plan with respect to this in terms of
   U.S. presence?

   Adm. Blair: In terms of U.S. what?

   Question: Military presence in Indonesia. Is there a plan in place
   already?

   Adm. Blair: We're talking with the Indonesians about this all the
   time. Our military relations with Indonesia are very much reduced
   after East Timor. They went into a very minimal area. We still have a
   small number of exercises with them. We still talk in multilateral
   conferences. We still have visits. As I say, I went to Indonesia. But
   it certainly is not what it was several years ago and it really won't
   be until the Indonesian armed forces do a better job of the
   accountability standards which are really expected of modern armed
   forces. That being said, we are cooperating on international
   terrorism, cooperating on individual things which are in our interest
   are important and we're pursuing some of those.

   Question: What is the hardest thing about this war for you?

   Adm. Blair: The hardest thing is the illusive enemy. What it really
   calls for is great cooperation with law enforcement, with
   intelligence, with customs, with aviation authorities. Within each
   government you have to get those entities together in order to be able
   to move effectively and quickly across traditional organizational
   boundaries. Then you have to, with other countries, have the same
   sorts of connections. So it really require unprecedented cooperation.
   And I think both within our countries and certainly among our
   countries and between our countries this requires a degree of
   flexible, open communication and action that we haven't seen before.
   And the things that the enemy demands of these terrorists, as you've
   seen from the ones that have been shown in the Singapore papers, they
   buy a plane ticket, they come in, they buy explosives, they leave, and
   they do this all in a few days, then they can pose a threat to our
   citizens. We have got to be able to move information around our
   countries, among our agencies, take quick action, stop them, grab them
   in ways that are just new to all of us. So it's that type of speed,
   communications, cooperation that I think will challenge all of us.

   Question: Are there any particular needs of the U.S. in this war
   against terrorism? A case in point, the detainees at Guantanamo, have
   been declared by President Bush that they are not prisoners of war but
   the Geneva convention demands that, the tribunal decides that on a
   case by case basis. And to date the U.S. said that there won't be such
   a tribunal. As a military officer, how do you react to the decision?

   Adm. Blair: What I find in this war against terrorism is that our past
   rules and our past practices provide a starting point for how we have
   to approach this war but continual adaptation and rethinking is
   necessary in order to be effective and we shouldn't let the terrorists
   have sanctuary behind old rules any more than they should have
   sanctuary behind other barriers. Now we can't turn our constitutions
   upside down and turn our practices upside down and become countries
   that sacrifice the things that have made us great in terms of our
   traditions, but we've got to be very creative about taking action
   against these people who in our case have killed 4,000 of our citizens
   as well as citizens of 40-some-odd other countries, and they did that
   with a relatively small number of people, a relatively small
   expenditure of money, and they could do it again unless we are very
   aggressive and very ruthless against them.

   Question: Do you feel this decision by President Bush jeopardizes U.S.
   troops in the sense that other countries could say that if the U.S. is
   not complying with the Geneva Convention then why should I, and
   therefore why should I report the Americans that are captive in my
   country?

   Adm. Blair: There's clearly a difference between a U.S. serviceman in
   a uniform like this trained and disciplined the way our forces are and
   most of the people in Guantanamo. I think most people recognize that.

   Question: Admiral Blair, about yourself before we end, how do you
   juggle all this? I mean you have a family yourself, and you travel 40
   percent of the time, and you make all these visits. What's your day
   like?

   Adm. Blair: The main thing I have is a lot of good help. That's my
   main asset. A wonderful staff who does most of the work. And then a
   tremendous group of allies and partners that I can work with. So it's
   fun talking with a country like Singapore. If we can agree on the
   general directions then the great people who work in our armed forces
   around the world will take care of the details. So I try to stay
   concentrating on the big questions, knowing that the well trained, the
   dedicated people will make it all happen, so that's my secret

   Question: And this new war, is there one thing that really makes a
   difference about how you do your job, what would that be?

   Adm. Blair: I think the, as I mentioned, I'd say it's, unprecedented
   cooperation is going to be the key to success and I try to set that
   tone and that way of approaching it, that's the way I work. I find
   some people who work for me and who work for others do it even better
   than I had imagined and that's how we win. That's how these things
   happen. I think the example of this sequence of events here in
   Singapore and in Malaysia, the Philippines. In the last month it's
   really illustrated that, the comparison of intelligence, the actions
   that were taken made things safe for both American sailors and for
   Singaporians.

   Question: Are you happy with the way things are progressing?

   Adm. Blair: I am happy but not satisfied.

   Question: What do you think you need to do?

   Adm. Blair: I think we need go bear down even more, work harder,
   cooperate more, pursue the intelligence. One area I think we need to
   understand a lot more about is the connection between international
   terrorism, illegal migration, drug smuggling, piracy. I have a feeling
   that these shadowy activities, many of which in this part of the world
   are unfortunately going on, have connections which we don't
   understand. We need to bear down until we can understand them. I think
   we need to overcome some of the suspicions between and among our
   countries which sort of keep us from cooperating against this new
   threat. We need to do more of that. So there's plenty of work to do.

   Question: How long do you expect to be in the Philippines? Troops to
   be in the Philippines in the fight against Abu Sayyaf?

   Adm. Blair: Pardon?

   Question: How long?

   Adm. Blair: I would say that it's going to be months but not years.

   Question: What is the timeframe for this war against terrorism?

   Adm. Blair: I would say years but not months.

   Question: Admiral Blair, thank you very much for being here.

   Adm. Blair: Thank you very much.

   (end transcript)

   (Distributed by the Office of International Information Programs, U.S.
   Department of State. Web site: http://usinfo.state.gov)



        __________________________________________________________________

      This site is produced and maintained by the U.S. Department of State's
      Office of International Information Programs (usinfo.state.gov). Links
      to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of
      the views contained therein.
   Back To Top
   blue rule
   IIP Home | Index to This Site | Webmaster | Search This Site | Archives
   | U.S. Department of State
