http://www.savingsbonds.gov/mar/marprs.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   Payroll Savings Plan for U.S. Savings Bonds
   line divider

   More than 40,000 employers help their employees save by offering the
   Payroll Savings Plan for U.S. Savings Bonds. In the Payroll Savings
   Plan, you authorize your payroll department to set aside an amount you
   choose from each pay. It comes right back to you by mail in the form of
   U.S. Savings Bonds, savings that you keep until you need the money for
   any purpose. Here's why employees like it, and so do their employers:
     * Payroll savings makes saving painless. You save money automatically
       before you see it.
     * Payroll savings isn't a deduction. Think of it as money you pay
       yourself off the top, before you can spend it.
     * Buying savings bonds through payroll savings fits in well with
       401(k) and other retirement plans. Savings bonds diversify your
       retirement savings portfolio. Series EE and I Bonds provide safety
       and competitive, tax-deferred yields for the long or short term.
       You can get your hands on the money, with interest, in minutes at
       almost any bank or other financial institution once you've held a
       bond six months or more. (If you cash a bond less than five years
       from issue there's a penalty of the last three months' interest.)
     * Payroll savings is easy to start. You can begin with just a few
       dollars per payday. Your bond will arrive when you've accumulated
       as little as $50. Just get an enrollment form from your employer
       and ask what amounts you can allot. You can also download an
       enrollment form here.
     * Payroll savings is flexible. You can buy bonds for yourself or
       anyone you want, with a coowner or beneficiary if you wish. You can
       change the amount you allot per payday. Your employer may offer
       both Series EE and I Bonds. You may be able to buy bonds for more
       than one person; ask your employer.

   Interested? Ask your employer for the payroll savings brochure and an
   enrollment form. You can also download an enrollment form here.

   For more details, see Frequently Asked Questions: Buying Savings Bonds
   through Payroll Savings. For more information about U.S. Savings Bonds
   visit http://www.savingsbonds.gov.

                                                   Updated July 12, 2001
