http://www.ecr.gov/privacy.htm

   How to Contact Us How to Contact Us

   Back to Main Page About the Institute What is Environmental Conflict
   Resolution Services & Programs Morris K. Udall Foundation Training &
   Opportunities What's New - Upcoming Events Roster of ECR Practitioners


   Web Page Privacy Language cleardot.gif (35 bytes)
   cleardot.gif (35 bytes) cleardot.gif (35 bytes)
   cleardot.gif (35 bytes)

   Browsing:
   Thank you for visiting the Foundation Website and reviewing our privacy
   policy. Our privacy policy is simple: We will collect no personal
   information about you when you visit our website unless you explicitly
   choose to provide that information to us. Personal information you
   provide will be used only in connection with the purposes that are
   described at the point of collection.

   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically. This information does not
   identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit:

     1. The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
     private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
     from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP address is a
     number that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you
     are surfing the Web) from which you access our website;

     2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;

     3. The date and time you access our site;

     4. The pages you visit.

   Email:
   You also may decide to send us personally-identifying information, for
   example, in an electronic mail message requesting information. We only
   use this information to respond to your query.

   Security:
   For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
   available to all users, this government computer system employs
   software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized
   attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage.

   Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
   this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act

        | Main Page | About the Institute | What is Environmental Conflict
        Resolution? | Services & Programs |
        | Morris K. Udall Foundation | Training & Opportunities | What's
        New/Upcoming Events | Roster of ECR Practitioners |

   | Privacy Statement |

   U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
   Suite 3350, 110 S. Church Ave. • Tucson, AZ 85701 • Tel. (520) 670-5299
   Fax (520) 670-5530

   Copyright © 1999 U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
