http://www-02.nist.gov/home.htm


                             Technology Services
       Technology Services Home Page NIST-NACLA MOU TS Organization TS
       Programs and Services Search Technology Services TS OnLine Help



                                Welcome to TS

   Technology Services (TS) of the National Institute of Standards and
   Technology (NIST) provides U.S. industry, government, and the public
   with measurements, standards, and information services that promote
   innovation, increase competitiveness, and facilitate trade. Technology
   Services programs support U.S. industry to
     * Improve Access to Markets
     * Ensure the Accuracy and Uniformity of Measurements
     * Manage the NIST Knowledge Base and Support Strategic Partnerships

   Most TS programs support industry in more than one of the above
   categories. To learn more about the complex linkages TS programs
   provide between industry and NIST, use the menu on the left to browse
   web sites for each of TS's primary offices, or browse the TS
   Organization page which provides brief descriptions and links to
   additional information.

   For a view of another dimension of Technology Services, or to quickly
   identify the service, information or program, the TS Services page
   provides a complete list of services with direct links to the
   information resources behind those services.
   We value feedback from our customers. It is particularly important for
   us to hear from you about needed improvements, expanded services, or
   more efficient ways of delivering products and services to you.
   Comments are welcome.
   Please see the NIST Privacy Statement/Security Notice and the
   Disclaimer for information about this web site.
   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration
   Website Technical Contact: TSWeb Master
   Last update: October 26, 2001

                                 What's New

   The following describes the features available through the menubar.

   Bullet HOME - This page.

   Bullet NIST-NACLA MOU - Information related to the Memorandum of
   Understanding between NIST and NACLA.

   Bullet ORGANIZATION - A listing of all registered TS Web Sites grouped
   by Office and program.

   Bullet SERVICES - Alphabetical list of all available Services and the
   associated TS Web Sites. Also, provides the ability to search for TS
   Web Sites by Service.

   Bullet SEARCH - Search the Technology Services Database of program and
   service names, descriptions and links.

   Bullet HELP - OnLine Help for this site.
