http://redgarden.cr.usgs.gov/RGOPubs/ranking.pdf

   PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES TO RANK ALTERNATIVE COAL MINING TRACTS by R.
   G. Osborn, J. M. Bartholow, J. E. Gross, and P. N. Strong Systems
   Applications Group Western Energy and Land Use Team U.S. Fish and
   Wildlife Service Drake Creekside 2625 Redwing Road Fort Collins,
   Colorado 80526 CONTENTS Page FIGURES iii TABLES v INTRODUCTION 1
   DESCRIPTION OF METHODS 4 Agency Compatibility 4 Cumulative Hierarchies
   7 Incremental Exclusion 12 Fuzzy Value Analysis 19 DESCRIPTION OF
   WORKSHOPS 23 RESULTS AND EVALUATION 26 REFERENCES 35 APPENDIXES A.
   Technical Information 36 Software Environment 36 Description of Ranking
   Table 37 How to Operate the STRIP Command and Produce a Ranking Table
   42 How to Operate the RANK Command (Ranking Section for Cumulative
   Hierarchies) 44 How to Operate INCX (Incremental Exclusion Organizer)
   46 Description of FUZZ (Fuzzy Value Analysis) 47 How to Operate FUZZ
   (Fuzzy Value Analysis) 48 Computing Environment 50 Costs of Ranking 51
   The Limited Technology Alternative 51 B1. List of Digitized Maps Used
   in the Montana Ranking Methods Workshops 53 B2. List of Digitized Maps
   Used in the Utah Ranking Methods Workshops 58 B3. List of Digitized
   Maps Used in the Wyoming Ranking Methods Workshops 61 C. Ranking
   Methods Workshops Evaluation Questionnaire 65 ii FIGURES Number Page 1
   Three perspectives of areas suitable for coal mining (the shaded areas)
   used during the Utah workshops for the Agency Compatibility method. 5 2
   Composite maps using data of Figure 1 and representing: A. Areas where
   all groups agree that mining is acceptable to their management
   objectives; B. Areas where all groups agree that mining is not
   acceptable to their management objectives; C. Areas where one or more
   groups are in disagreement over the suitability of mining. 6 3
   Breakdown of conflict areas depicted in Figure 2C. are where any one,
   but only one, group views mining to be suitable; are where any two of
   the three groups view mining to be suitable; blank areas are where all
   three groups are in agreement either that the area is suitable or that
   it is unsuitable. 8 4 Schematic that represents cumulative process in
   producing final ranking. 10 5 Mine tracts used during the
   Decker-Birney, Montana workshops for the Cumulative Hierarchies method.
   13 6 Hypothetical situation used in the Incremental Exclusion example.
   = riparian habitat; = cliffs for potential raptor nesting; = strippable
   coal deposits. 16 7 Fuzzy Value Analysis example based on data in Table
   4. Tract D is more suitable than Tract A, which in turn is better than
   Tract E. Since the bands for Tract B and Tract C overlap, it can not be
   assessed which Tract is better for mining. Similarly, Tract B is no
   better or worse than any other tract, and Tract C is only noticeably
   less suitable for mining than Tract D. 21 8 Fuzzy Value Analysis
   example based on data in Table 4, except that the most important
   criteria became seam thickness (weights changed to a range of 4 to 5).
   Notice that most conclusions from Figure 7 hold except that the
   relative positions of Tract A and Tract C have switched. 22 9 Schedule
   of five stages for the ranking methods workshops in each test area. 25
   iii FIGURES (continued) Number Page 10 Intrusive Competitive Index
   examples: Values are calculated as the area of overlap between mineable
   coal resources (horizontal line shading) and criteria (vertical line
   shading) divided by the area overlain by either coal resources or
   criteria. Using logical operators it is the area: COAL CRITERIA / COAL
   CRITERIA. 32 11 Schematic representation of the information processed
   to generate a Ranking Table. S1 and S2 represent different strippable
   coal deposits. B1 and B2 represent different biological resources. W is
   the window. Shaded areas represent conflict areas between biological
   resources and coal. (BOOLEAN expressions and their corresponding areas
   that are used in Table 7 are shown in Table 6). 40 iv TABLES Number
   Page 1 Ranks for each of 13 mine tracts for each of 15 ranking
   criteria, the sum of the ranks for each mine tract across major
   criteria blocks and their resulting rank, and the sum of the ranks for
   each mine tract across all criteria blocks and the resulting final
   rank. 11 2 Incremental Exclusion example. T = million tons of
   economically recoverable coal (stripping ratio < 4.5 ft overburden per
   ft coal) which remains to be mined in a tract's economically
   recoverable coal tonnage that is not overlain by exclusion area. 17 3
   Incremental Exclusion example. Dotted and dashed lines are the "trade
   off" decision lines that show which tracts should be leased to attain a
   production goal of 650 and 1000 million tons, respectively, under
   various sets of criteria. MT = million tons of economically recoverable
   coal (stripping ratio < 4.5 ft overburden per ft coal) which remains to
   be mined in a tract's unexcluded areas. % = percent of a tract's
   economically recoverable coal tonnage that is not overlain by exclusion
   area. CT = cumulative million tons of economically recoverable coal in
   all unexcluded areas of tracts of equal or more preferred rank (i.e.,
   cumulative down columns). 18 4 Type of information required for the
   Fuzzy Value Analysis. Criterion and tract selections were made for
   demonstration purposes only. Values were derived during workshops. 20 5
   Agendas used in Workshops. 27 6 BOOLEAN Expressions and their
   corresponding areas from Figure 11 that are used to create the Ranking
   Table shown in Table 7. 38 7 Example of the Ranking Table associated
   with Figure 11 and acreages given in Table 6. The thickness of
   strippable deposit S1 in Figure 11 is 15 feet; S2 is 25 feet thick. 39
   v PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES TO RANK ALTERNATIVE COAL MINING TRACTS
   INTRODUCTION Over the last two years, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
   Service (FWS) has been reviewing and modifying processes and procedures
   to evaluate and rank coal bearing lands for their mining desirability.
   We have focused our attention on mining desirability from the
   standpoint of minimizing impacts to ecological components contained
   within the coal bearing lands. Our efforts have resulted in identifying
   and developing four separate processes. In addition, the strengths and
   weaknesses of these processes have been explored in a "real world"
   context during workshops by subjecting them to data, attitudes, and
   policies that are both available and operating in three widely
   different coal bearing areas: Montana, Wyoming, and Utah. This report
   will present both the information that is required to understand and
   use these ranking processes and procedures and how to organize and
   execute ranking workshops similar to ours. It will not discuss how the
   results could be implemented operationally. We believe that this is a
   decision to be made by the reader or workshop participant in context
   with their particular organizational constraints. Nearly all ranking
   schemes require the evaluation of one or more rules at two or more
   locations followed by a method of combining these results to form an
   ordered set of locations. The variety of methods by which each of these
   steps is accomplished has led to the plethora of ranking schemes
   described in the literature. It is clear that the four methods that we
   will describe here are merely variations on themes found elsewhere. In
   addition, we have discovered that some ranking schemes may be very data
   dependent and require specific information before ranking can occur.
   Their results can be very precise and reliable over large areas, but
   their data requirements are rigid. Others may be very data independent
   or generalized in their information requirements. They are adaptive to
   available data, but may sacrifice their generality over large areas to
   retain reliability and usefulness locally. We have also noted several
   problems that any definitive ranking process may be required to
   address. These problems relate to a host of externalities including,
   but not limited to: 1. Data are variable in quality; 2. Inconsistencies
   in data exist over large geographic areas; 3. Ranking criteria do not
   have unequivocally accepted values; 1 4. Ranking criteria represent a
   wide yet incomplete spectrum of ecological components; 5. Nearly all
   information available and inventoried is of a static (i.e., fixed in
   time and space) rather than a dynamic nature; 6. Understanding of the
   functional relationships among components is poor, thereby defying
   prediction; and 7. Conflicting interests exist among agencies. These
   result in incompatible management objectives in adjacent or overlapping
   jurisdictional areas. We believe that these problems contribute to the
   following three phenomena that a ranking scheme must address to be
   useful: 1. There are always more potential data than can be effectively
   brought to bear on tract ranking; 2. There is never enough data for
   rational tract ranking; and 3. Discretion will be extensive in any
   ranking process. As an outgrowth of the above lists, we used a number
   of strategic considerations to guide the development of the four
   ranking processes. First, it was considered mandatory that a ranking be
   done rapidly and with minimal manpower. It would not be used if a
   ranking could not be produced within about one month. Also, during the
   ranking process many alternatives representing different sets of
   underlying assumptions and diverse perspectives will be identified.
   Many viable options will be dropped from further consideration if rapid
   processing is not possible. Second, it was considered mandatory that a
   ranking be developed from existing data. Again, because of time
   constraints, additional data collection could prevent rapid response. A
   ranking scheme requiring a fixed set of data ensures that ranking will
   not occur in the absence of those data. To effectively use existing
   data, the methods would be required to handle information of variable
   quantity (not available everywhere), variable quality (from the
   subjective to the precise), and variable importance. A partial list of
   importance factors that we have experienced includes: 1. Legal
   mandates; 2. Economics of harvestable resources; 3. Long term versus
   short term impacts; 4. Secondarily connected to one of the above; and 2
   5. Quantity, quality, and intensity of minority group interests. Third,
   it was considered mandatory that diverse and extensive information be
   collapsed into a digestible summary whose rationale is preserved and
   which can be replicated. The technique must, therefore, be quantitative
   even though the data may not be. Fourth, it was considered mandatory
   that the decisionmaking community, i.e., the individuals who would be
   using the results, evaluates the method's usefulness. Otherwise, the
   methods might be scientifically sound, but completely useless to the
   decisionmaker. Next, we developed a number of tactics to support the
   methods and strategic considerations. Rapid response and processing
   would be handled by an automated system. A Geographic Information
   System (GIS) would be an integral part of the overall system. The
   capability of rapid map based data entry and updating, as well as
   analytical capabilities, would be required of the GIS. The GIS really
   would be the tool that delivered information to the ranking processes
   and allowed for rapid response. To further reduce response time, a
   preliminary or prototype data base would be available to draw on to get
   the ranking exercise going. This data base would not be intended to be
   complete, but rather available to be supplemented, updated, and
   modified by the participants doing the ranking as deemed necessary
   during the course of the ranking exercise. Another tactic would allow
   the participants in a ranking exercise to use data as they see fit.
   This necessitates a data independent ranking scheme as described
   earlier. It guarantees the flexibility to accommodate different agency
   perspectives. There is no guarantee, however, that data will be
   available to meet those perspectives or that those perspectives are
   good for the particular resource that they represent. An arena would be
   provided to allow participants to select criteria, become familiar with
   ranking concepts, and evaluate a ranking scheme's usefulness from their
   point of view. This tactic of ranking workshops was decided on early.
   It was also deemed necessary that participants be drawn from a broad
   cross section of private and governmental organizations. The final
   tactic would be to draw on several methods, specifically four. Our
   methods were intended to represent different levels of data
   requirements, different levels of complexity, and different operational
   philosophies. This tactic ensured comparisons of good and bad points of
   each method. It also allowed the identification of situations where one
   method was more useful than another was. 3 DESCRIPTION OF METHODS
   Ranking methods are ways to manipulate information about alternatives
   and compare one alternative with another. The information used in the
   process depends to a great extent on available data, what the issue is,
   and why alternatives are being ranked. Our concerns here are related to
   evaluating and ranking alternative leasing sites for their
   environmental suitability for coal mining. Even so, our emphasis has
   been placed on methods to accomplish this and not on what the data
   requirements should be. Our methods are generalized to use data
   elements the user is concerned with. It will be his responsibility to
   develop criteria to be used, to determine what measure of each
   criterion will be evaluated, and to assess his rationale to support
   these activities. The methods, however, do not prevent the user from
   selecting indices with definitive data requirements. For instance, the
   FWS has also developed an ecological characterization index based on
   terrestrial vegetation and cover types (Asherin et al. 1979) which is
   well suited for ranking lands. Each of the four processes described
   here may be perceived to address a different level of data intensity,
   understanding, and problem entry. Nevertheless, there are situations
   when more than one method is appropriate or where several methods can
   be used either sequentially or in combination. Agency Compatibility
   This method is an attempt to address each agency's needs and desires,
   communicate the implications of these needs and ' desires to others,
   and use the results to aid in ranking lands. This is accomplished as
   follows. Each agency or interest group identifies two types of areas on
   maps - first, those areas suitable for mining and, second, those areas
   unsuitable for mining. Note that an agency's suitable areas may not
   necessarily be the complement of unsuitable areas. One way this may
   occur is through defining additional areas that are suitable with
   qualifications or restrictions applied. At this stage, there is no need
   to publicize or explain either one's rationale or the quality and type
   of data used to delineate the areas. The use of explicit rationale and
   precise information is encouraged, but not- mandatory. If information
   is sparse and agency discretion is high, these suitable and unsuitable
   areas can still be represented and compared to those of other agencies.
   The results at this point are maps as shown in Figure 1. Overlaying
   these maps makes initial comparisons and identifying areas where all
   groups agree that mining is suitable (Figure 2A). In a parallel
   fashion, map overlays of unsuitable areas can be used to distinguish
   areas where all groups agree that mining should not take place. For our
   example, it is assumed that unsuitable areas are the compliment of
   suitable areas. Figure 2B represents those unsuitable areas. The
   remaining areas (Figure 2C) represent areas of disagreement among one
   or more groups about whether or not mining is acceptable. This method
   can be viewed as an 4 Figure 1. Three perspectives of areas suitable
   for coal mining (the shaded areas) used during the Utah workshops for
   the Agency Compatibility method. 5 Figure 2. Composite maps using data
   of Figure 1 and representing: A. Areas where all groups agree that
   mining is acceptable to their management objectives; B. Areas where all
   groups agree that mining is not acceptable to their management
   objectives; C. Areas where one or more groups are in disagreement over
   the suitability of mining. 6 initial screening process. Areas where
   agreement is unanimous may not require further analysis, thus resulting
   in time and manpower savings. Another approach may be to use the
   consensus areas as the first cut for the delineation of lease tracts.
   While this method does not specifically require lease tracts, the other
   three methods to be discussed do. Using this method first may prevent
   the delineation of tracts that are not really acceptable alternatives,
   e.g., where industry may not have an interest. The conflict areas
   themselves (Figure 2C) also may be focused on. A density map of
   agreement can be produced to indicate the number of groups that agree
   in various areas (Figure 3). This information can be used to rank lands
   based on consensus or to supply information to be used in one of the
   other three methods. It may be desirable to determine which parties
   agree with a particular assessment and thus serve as the basis for a
   coalition. In addition, questions may be explored as to why
   disagreements occur after the areas of conflict have been identified.
   Such improved communications may aid in strategic bargaining with
   information being conveyed incrementally until a solution or compromise
   is gained. Finally, coal reserve information may be calculated for any
   of the areas discussed above if coal resource data are available. This
   is accomplished in the same program using the STRIP command (see
   Appendix A). Cumulative Hierarchies Cumulative Hierarchies is the
   descriptive term that has been given a ranking process having two basic
   features: (1) the ordering of land tracts according to their
   "mineability" based on individual "ranking criterion"; and (2) the
   accumulation of these ordered sets into an overall hierarchical
   ordering or ranking. The Cumulative Hierarchies process applies to
   ranking situations where a large number of individual ranking criteria
   must be included in the analysis, but where a single ranking is desired
   as the final product. Perhaps the process's most attractive feature is
   its capability to integrate a mixed bag of ranking criteria. Since the
   values for an individual criterion are used only to generate the
   ordering for that criterion, the intermediate results are
   "dimensionless" and, as such, may be accumulated without regard to the
   values from which they were derived. Thus, the spectrum of criteria
   used in any ranking exercise may carry various degrees of quantitative
   or qualitative data. A second utilitarian feature of the process is its
   continuous scale ranking. This feature eliminates the necessity to
   establish definitive thresholds, bounds, or other arbitrary values that
   are intended to represent an acceptable or unacceptable level of
   mineability for a criterion. 7 Figure 3. Breakdown of conflict areas
   depicted in Figure 2C. are where any one, but only one, group views
   mining to be suitable; are where any two of the three groups view
   mining to be suitable; blank areas are where all three groups are in
   agreement either that the area is suitable or that it is unsuitable. 8
   Finally, the criteria may be clustered into sets representing important
   decision components (i.e., environmental, socioeconomic, and coal
   characteristic factors) which may in turn be combined at a third level
   without biasing the final results by the number of criteria used in
   each set. This feature is illustrated in Figure 4 where each node may
   be considered as an intermediate ranking or hierarchy. Three steps are
   involved in the Cumulative Hierarchies process if the tracts to be
   ranked have already been delineated. The first step involves the
   definition of each criterion and a determination of how a criterion
   will be evaluated at each tract with respect to "mineability." For
   instance, the presence of flood plains within a tract may be an
   important environmental criterion, but it must also be decided what
   measures will be used to evaluate this criterion on each tract. Should
   those tracts with the least acreage of flood plains be most "mineable"?
   Or should those tracts having the least percentage of their total areas
   as flood plains be most "mineable"? Given that the tracts differ in
   size, the resulting orderings or intermediate rankings of these two
   measures will also differ. Other ways that criteria may be evaluated
   and the implications of that evaluation will be discussed in the
   Results Section of this paper. Suffice it to say here that criteria
   must be established and suitable measures must be selected to evaluate
   a tract's "mineability" with this method. The second step involves the
   evaluation of each tract with respect to each measure and criterion.
   Also included in this step is the ordering of tracts based on each of
   these criterion values. The orderings are the individual and
   "dimensionless" rankings that will be accumulated in the third and
   final step to produce a hierarchical or summary ranking. Again, as
   shown in Figure 4, these summary rankings can, in turn, be combined to
   form additional hierarchies as the need arises. For clarity, an example
   of this method is given which shows how 13 tracts were ranked using 15
   individual criterion measures which, in turn, were clustered into five
   criterion categories (Table 1). The first criterion selected in this
   example is lands that represent medium rehabilitation potential after
   mining (Packer 1974), and the measure on which the tracts are to be
   ranked is the acreage of criterion that occurs within each tract. For
   this criterion, the tract with the smallest acreage of lands with
   medium rehabilitation potential is ranked number one indicating that,
   for the criterion under analysis, the tract is the first that should be
   mined. Likewise, the tract with the largest acreage of medium
   rehabilitation potential lands is ranked last and would be the last
   tract to be mined, based on this criterion only. The rank of each of
   the 13 tracts for this criterion is illustrated in the first column of
   Table 1. This would be the final rank and the ranking exercise would be
   finished if medium rehabilitation potential were the only criterion for
   ranking. However, such would seldom be the case since ordinarily more
   than one criterion is required for evaluation in the ranking exercise.
   If additional criteria are required, a rank for each criterion is
   calculated in the same manner as described for the medium
   rehabilitation criterion. In each case, the user designates what the
   ranking criterion 9 (NODE 8) FINAL RANKING (NODE 5) (NODE 6) (NODE 7)
   CUMULATIVE FOR CRITERION 5 CUMULATIVE FOR CRITERION 4 CRITERIA 1, 2 & 3
   MEASURE 1 MEASURE 2 MEASURE 1 (NODE 4) CRITERION 3 (NODE 3) CUMULATIVE
   FOR CRITERIA 1 & 2 MEASURE 1 (NODE 1) (NODE 2) CUMULATIVE FOR CRITERION
   2 CRITERION 1 MEASURE 1 MEASURE 2 MEASURE 1 Figure 4. Schematic that
   represents cumulative process in producing final ranking 10 Table 1.
   Ranks for each of 13 mine tracts for each of 15 ranking criteria, the
   sum of the ranks for each mine tract across major criteria blocks and
   their resulting rank, and the sum of the ranks for each mine tract
   across all criteria blocks and the resulting final rank. ENVIRONMENTAL
   SOCIO ECONOMIC LANDS UNSUITABLE COAL CRITERIA MISCELLANEOUS OVERALL
   CRITERIA CRITERIA CRITERIA CRITERIA RANKS t ins k k k t k k m la ns loc
   d in ral ac loc ble loc ac loc loc diu ai lan um t pl nd m in tr uita
   ia oodp ia b la n- fede ia b nds ia b oal ia b ia b s of me l edi ac fl
   m ood n- riter riter far no nds riter la riter c oal in tr riter riter
   by ia l m by l fl by l far by ership l no la by ng ds uns by l c ll c
   ney ed tent ota ed ota ed ota ed own ota ed ni t ed ota ecker land in
   tr ross c e ross c ross c ross c ross c ross rank ross a cupi n po of t
   n cupi of t ac k rank cupi of t cupi of t ership ac k rank cupi or mi
   ac k rank cupi of t ac k rank om Bir ac k rank ac ks ac oc io io oal
   from D age oc age als loc oc age oc urfac age als loc oc age of lan loc
   loc loc ng in trac als oc age als e e fr als als ilitat ilitat t tot ia
   b al s e own tot ia b able f ni tot ia b of c tot ia b tot ia b tot ia
   bloc ank cent cent cent t cent uit cent cent l r ks TRACT reage reage
   iter reage reage iter reage mi iter reage iter tanc tanc iter Ac rehab
   Per rehab Ac Per in trac Rank Cr Ac Per trac Ac feder Per surfac Rank
   Cr Ac uns Per for Rank Cr Ac Per Tons Rank Cr Dis Dis Rank Cr Rank
   criter Fina bloc Deck er A 1 7 3 4 15 4 5 10 1 5 21 5 5 10 15 6 12 12
   12 36 12 9 3 12 7 34 8 Dec ker B 4 12 2 2 20 5 1 1 2 2 6 1 10 12 22 9
   13 13 13 39 13 11 1 12 7 35 9 Dec ker C 2 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 3 7 12 3 12 11
   23 10 11 11 11 33 11 10 2 12 7 32 7 Dec ker D 5 5 1 1 12 3 3 5 4 9 21 5
   13 13 26 11 9 7 7 23 7 8 2 10 6 32 7 D og Creek 9 9 6 5 29 7 1 1 8 1 11
   2 1 1 2 1 5 3 3 11 4 7 6 13 8 22 1 Hanging Woman A 13 11 11 11 46 11 9
   8 13 10 40 11 9 8 17 7 1 4 4 9 2 7 5 12 7 39 12 Hanging Woman B 12 10 8
   7 37 9 8 6 11 6 31 9 7 5 12 5 2 5 5 12 5 7 5 12 7 37 10 Moorhead A 10 4
   9 9 32 8 10 11 12 11 44 12 8 7 15 6 3 6 6 15 6 6 4 10 6 38 11 Moorhead
   B1 7 13 4 3 27 6 6 7 7 3 23 7 3 3 6 3 7 9 9 25 8 5 3 8 5 29 6 Moorhead
   B2 3 2 1 1 7 2 4 4 6 12 26 8 4 6 10 4 8 10 10 28 10 4 2 6 3 27 4 O tter
   Cre ek A 11 8 10 10 39 10 2 2 10 8 22 6 6 4 10 4 4 1 1 6 1 3 4 7 4 25 3
   O tter Cre ek B 8 6 7 8 29 7 3 3 9 4 19 4 11 9 20 8 6 2 2 10 3 1 1 2 1
   23 2 O tter Cre ek C 6 3 5 6 20 5 7 9 5 13 34 10 2 2 4 2 10 8 8 26 9 2
   2 4 2 28 5 11 will be, what measure the tracts are to be ranked on, and
   the direction of the ranking, i.e., whether the ranking is to be from
   low value to high value or from high value to low value. The essence of
   the Cumulative Hierarchies concept is the accommodation of many
   criteria in the ranking exercise. As the tracts are ranked by
   individual criteria, the results are saved and can be accumulated as
   illustrated in Table 1. The resulting sums may, in turn, be ranked. For
   example, in Table 1, the tract called Decker A (Tract 1 in Figure 5)
   was ranked first, seventh, third, and fourth for environmental
   criteria; fifth, tenth, first, and fifth for socioeconomic criteria;
   and so forth across the other criteria. The format of rankings for
   individual criteria in Table 1 provides for the accumulation of
   rankings. Individual rankings are accumulated into an overall ranking
   by the simple process of adding the rank values - for all criteria for
   each individual tract. For example, for a cumulative ranking based on
   environmental criteria only as depicted in Table 1, the Decker A rank
   values of one, seven, three, and four are added together to provide an
   overall value of 15 (Column 5 in Table 1). The same process is repeated
   for the other tracts, so that a column of accumulated rank totals
   across environmental criteria is created. These values are then ordered
   from smallest to largest and become the summarized ranks. For the
   environmental criteria block, this value appears in Column 6 of Table
   1. Five other accumulations of ranks are shown in Table 1: one each for
   the socioeconomic criteria, the lands unsuitable criteria, the coal
   criteria, the miscellaneous criteria, and one final ranking across all
   criteria block ranks. However, as previously explained and illustrated
   in Figure 4, the ranks for individual criteria may be accumulated in a
   variety of patterns. For example, the coal criteria and the
   socioeconomic criteria could be accumulated to illustrate some specific
   perspective of ranking or one or two criteria could be accumulated from
   each of the major blocks. The final point to be discussed is the
   weighting of the individual ranks. Although not illustrated in this
   example, individual criteria can be assigned weighting values that
   allow the criterion to exert an above average influence on the
   accumulated ranking. This is done by multiplying a tract's ranking for
   each criterion by the weight given that criterion before criteria are
   accumulated into a ranking hierarchy. Incremental Exclusion Ranking by
   Incremental Exclusion is a goal-directed process aimed at getting the
   coal from the ground to meet the expressed needs and taking into
   consideration the most important environmental concerns. This method
   has a built-in rationale in that a user is channeled into working with
   acres of environmental criteria and tons (or BTU'S) of coal. Other
   measures, as well as other criteria such as distance to 12 TRACT NAME 1
   DECKER A 2 DECKER B 3 DECKER D 4 DECKER C 5 DOG CREEK 6 HANGING WOMAN A
   7 HANGING WOMAN B 8 MOORHEAD A 9 MOORHEAD B1 10 MOORHEAD B2 11 OTTER
   CREEK A 12 OTTER CREEK B 13 OTTER CREEK C Figure 5. Mine tracts used
   during the Decker-Birney, Montana workshops for the Cumulative
   Hierarchies method. 13 transportation, cannot be incorporated. The
   assumption is that tracts, which emerge from the planning process for
   ranking by other agencies, will have already been screened for
   "unsuitability" and other high priority socioeconomic considerations.
   Incremental Exclusion is termed "exclusion" because it is based on the
   principle that that portion of each tract's coal reserve called into
   question by the application of each environmental criterion will either
   be excluded from surface mining or, more likely, have a set of
   restrictions imposed by the appropriate resource agency to safeguard
   that criterion. The philosphy here is that rather than a strict "go" or
   "no- go" decision on a particular tract, we are talking about a go on
   all tracts if certain restrictions are met. However, tracts will still
   be ranked in order of preference, based on the extent of restrictions
   and the potential loss in coal reserves underlaying those restricted
   areas. The degree to which this is realistic will be discussed later in
   the Results Section. Incremental Exclusion is termed "incremental"
   because the criteria are applied in a series of consecutive additions
   from most important to least important. Each additional criterion, as
   applied, will be added to all preceding criteria. That is, the most
   important criterion is applied, then the second and first, then the
   third, second and first, and so on until all the criterion are applied
   together. Since we are talking about a hierarchy of importance, the
   environmental criteria must themselves be ranked. Though not a trivial
   step, this initial ranking should be fairly easy to accomplish. It is
   worth pointing out here that the criteria can not be weighted with this
   method as with some of the other processes. Rather, they can only be
   ranked. It is suggested that the decisions for ranking the
   environmental criteria be based on simple factors. Examples might
   include: (1) the probability of a group of decisionmakers accepting the
   criterion; (2) the ability of field-level people to enforce exclusions
   of, or restrictions on, mining activity within the tracts; (3) long
   term impacts; and (4) rare species or habitats. If an ordering of
   environmental criteria cannot be accomplished, or if coal reserve data
   are unavailable, no further effort should be devoted to the Incremental
   Exclusion process. The actual "ranking" that is done is based on the
   quantity of coal within each tract that is not in conflict with one or
   more environmental criteria. This may be either tons of coal, BTU'S, or
   percentage of the tract's total tonnage or BTU's remaining to be mined.
   As will be partially illustrated later, ranking on the basis of tons or
   BTU's will "bias" the results against the smaller tracts. In terms of
   minimizing red tape, this may be a good rationale. Again, if coal
   reserve information is not available, no further effort should be
   devoted to the Incremental Exclusion process. The final result of the
   Incremental Exclusion process is a matrix of opportunities. This matrix
   will enable the user to display a "trade-off" line showing the various
   options available to reach the region's production goals in tons or
   BTU's of coal. These options allow the user to choose that combination
   of the number of tracts 14 necessary and the number of criteria
   allowable to meet the specified production goals. A simple example is
   clearly in order. Suppose we have two tracts delineated within a given
   study area, as in Figure 6. If we look at the coal reserves underlying
   each tract we see that the North tract contains 125 million tons of
   coal and the South tract contains 100 million tons of coal. Now suppose
   that our most important ecological concern is riparian habitat
   preservation. If we overlay those riparian areas that overlay coal
   within each tract, the conflict area accounts for 10 million tons in
   the North tract and 5 million tons in the South tract. These areas will
   either be excluded from mining or restricted in how mining will occur.
   If we rank based on the percentage of tons of coal remaining in each
   tract, we would end up with a ranking in Column 1 of Table 2. The South
   tract, with 95% of its reserves remaining, is ranked first, followed by
   the North tract with 92% of its reserves remaining. Notice that the
   North tract actually would have more tons of coal remaining. Now
   suppose that cliffs were our next most environmentally valuable
   resource, being potential sites for raptor nests. When both cliffs and
   riparian areas are considered, we find that the North tract Tow-ranks
   first, followed by the South tract. The right side of Table 2 shows
   this new ranking and the supporting information. This example
   illustrates both how the order of applying criteria and how the ranking
   measure (in this case, percent of tract reserves remaining to be mined)
   effect the final outcome. It should be pointed out that specific
   engineering considerations necessary to actually bypass the restricted
   areas are not taken into consideration during the ranking. An
   abbreviated example from a workshop is presented in Table 3. The five
   criteria used, in order from most important to least important, are: 1)
   endangered species; 2) ungulate winter ranges; 3) water sources; 4)
   grouse leks; and 5) raptor nesting sites. The table shows the ranking
   order down the page. For instance, if only endangered species are
   considered, the ranking would be as listed in the first column. Also,
   if we had a goal of 1,000 million tons, we would have to lease seven
   tracts (through Tract A) to achieve this goal. In this case, we would
   actually exceed our goal slightly, since the cumulative total for the
   first seven tracts is 1,099 million tons. Note that if we consider
   ungulate winter ranges, in addition to endangered species, our ranking
   changes. Tract C replaces Tract G in third place. This is because Tract
   C has a larger portion excluded that is not already covered by the
   endangered species criterion than Tract G does. It may be, however,
   that there is actually more ungulate winter range on Tract G. Notice
   also that to meet a 1,000 million ton goal, all nine tracts must be
   ]eased. Considering the matrix as a whole points out at least two other
   interesting facts. First, the presence of leks does not change the
   ranking or the tonnage figures at all. 15 NORTH TRACT Total Coal
   Reserves = 125 Million Tons Riparian Exclusions Alone = 10 Million Tons
   With Additional Cliff Exclusions = 20 Million Tons SOUTH TRACT Total
   Coal Reserves = 100 Million Tons Riparian Exclusions Alone = 5 Million
   Tons With Additional Cliff Exclusions = 20 Million Tons Figure 6.
   Hypothetical situation used in the Incremental Exclusion example. =
   riparian habitat; = cliffs for potential raptor nesting; = strippable
   coal deposits. This means that leks must already be completely covered
   by one of the preceding criteria, probably winter range. Thus, we gain
   "protection" for leks for "free", so to speak. Note also that once we
   include raptor nesting sites, we can no longer reach our goal of 1,000
   million tons. In fact, we would have to lease more tracts than have
   been delineated to attain this goal. The "trade-off" line clearly shows
   how much coal you get for a variety of combinations of lease tracts and
   environmental criteria. Consideration of this line should enable
   agencies with these kinds of environmental concerns to see how those
   concerns stack up against the energy-minded production goals. 16 Table
   2. Incremental Exclusion example. T = million tons of economically
   recoverable coal (stripping ratio < 4.5 ft overburden per ft coal)
   which remains to be mined in a tract's economically recoverable coal
   tonnage that is not overlain by exclusion area. Rank Exclusions
   Riparian Only Riparian and Cliffs 1 South Tract North Tract 95T 105T
   95% 84% 2 North Tract South Tract 115T 80T 92% 80% 17 Table 3.
   Incremental Exclusion example. Dotted and dashed lines are the "trade
   off" decision lines that show which tracts should be leased to attain a
   production goal of 650 and 1000 million tons, respectively, under
   various sets of criteria. MT = million tons of economically recoverable
   coal (stripping ratio < 4.5 ft overburden per ft coal) which remains to
   be mined in a tract's unexcluded areas. % = percent of a tract's
   economically recoverable coal tonnage that is not overlain by exclusion
   area. CT = cumulative million tons of economically recoverable coal in
   all unexcluded areas of tracts of equal or more preferred rank (i.e.,
   cumulative down columns). Criteria for Exclusions Tract Endangered
   Ungulate Water Grouse Leking Raptor Rank Species Winter Range Sources
   Grounds Nesting Sites 1 Tract C Tract E Tract E Tract E Tract E 259 MT
   202 MT 193 MT 193 MT 193 MT 100% 100% 95% 95% 95% 259 CT 202 CT 193 CT
   193 CT 193 CT 2 Tract E Tract G Tract G Tract G Tract G 202 MT 193 MT
   188 MT 188 MT 188 MT 100% 100% 97% 97% 97% 461 CT 395 CT 381 CT 381 CT
   381 CT 3 Tract G Tract C Tract C Tract C Tract H 193 MT 135 MT 135 MT
   135 MT 127 MT 100% 52% 52% 52% 97% 654 CT 530 CT 516 CT 516 CT 508 CT 4
   Tract H Tract H Tract H Tract H Tract C 131 MT 131 MT 127 MT 1'27 MT
   111 MT 100% 100% 97% 97% 43% 785 CT 661 CT 643 CT 643 CT 619 CT 5 Tract
   F Tract F Tract F Tract F Tract F 108 11T 108 MT 108 MT 108 MT 108 MT
   9511, 95% 95% 951, 95% 893 CT 769 CT 751 CT 751 CT 727 CT 6 Tract D
   Tract A tract A Tract A Tract A 105 MT 93 MT 93 MT 93 MT 93 MT 100% 92%
   92" 92% 92% 998 CT 862 CT 844 CT 844 CT 820 CT 7 Tract A Tract I Tract
   I Tract I Tract I 101 MT 54 MT 54 MT 54 MT 54 MT 100% 100% 100% 100%
   100% 1099 CT 916 CT 898 CT 898 CT 898 CT 8 Tract B Tract B Tract 8
   Tract 8 Tract 0 57 MT 43 MT 41 MT 44 MT 37 MT 100% 77% 72% 72% 36% 1156
   CT 959 CT 939 CT 939 CT 935 CT 9 Tract I Tract D Tract D Tract 0 Tract
   B 55 MT 37 MT 37 MT 37 MT 36 MT 100% 36% 36% 36% 63% 1211 CT 1096 CT
   1076 CT 1076 CT 971 CT 18 Fuzzy Value Analysis One of the major
   arguments against any quantitative ranking scheme is that values are
   arbitrarily placed on the importance of information. Nevertheless, in
   our experience, these arbitrary values may change markedly and still
   have only minor effects on the ranking outcome. Emphasis is too
   commonly placed on differences, which may be trivial, rather than on
   overall similarities. The Fuzzy Value Analysis is an attempt to assess
   variable attitudes about the importance of criteria and their combined
   effect on the ranking outcome. To this end, it is very similar to the
   totality indices discussed by Odum et al. (1976). In addition to the
   effect that variable importance values have in the ranking outcome,
   Fuzzy Value Analysis accommodates uncertainty in the ranking values of
   individual criteria. As a result, the implications of missing or
   imprecise information at one or more sites can be explored. The
   following conditions are required for analysis. First, alternative
   sites must be identified. Second, one or more criteria must be defined
   and a suitable measure for each criterion selected. Each site must then
   be evaluated for all criteria. In our workshops, we have accomplished
   this rapidly using map-based information and a GIS. In a few instances,
   sites have been evaluated intuitively by field personnel. In either
   case, a single ranking measure value or a range of likely ranking
   measure values (specified by an upper and lower bound') is identified
   for each criterion and site (Table 4). Next, importance weightings are
   determined for each criterion. Again, these can be either a single
   value or a range of likely values. In our workshops, the range for a
   criterion's weight was determined both by an individual when he was
   uncertain what weight he really wanted and by extremes generated from a
   group of "experts" in a Delphi approach. The final step before analysis
   starts is to define criteria requiring a scale reversal so that they
   will rank in a parallel fashion with other criteria. This is required
   when there is a mixture of criteria where a high ranking measure value
   is best for mining for some criteria and a low ranking measure is best
   for mining for other criteria. Analysis starts by generating random
   samples within the range of specified values and calculating a sample
   of index values for each site. The results are displayed as a 95%
   confidence interval around the mean index value for each site (Figure
   7). The results are inspected to assess the sensitivity of the ranking
   outcome to the fuzziness or uncertainty contained in the data. Sites
   that cluster together cannot be reliably ranked relative to each other.
   However, several clusters that do not overlap can be ranked even in
   spite of the arbitrariness of the importance weights or the uncertainty
   of the information used in the ranking values. Many "what if" games can
   be played to assess the consequence to the ranking outcome by changing
   importance values, adding or dropping criteria, and specifying more
   precise information. Figure 8, for example, shows how little the
   overall ranking results in the example above change as a consequence of
   dramatically 19 Table 4. Type of information required for the Fuzzy
   Value Analysis. Criterion and tract selections were made for
   demonstration purposes only. Values were derived during workshops.
   Ranking Measure Values Criteria Importance Reversal of Weights1 Index
   Scale2 Tract A Tract B Tract C Tract D Tract E Seam Thickness 1.5 - 2.5
   yes 19 ft 55 ft 80 ft 80 ft 72 ft Reclamation Potential3 1.25 - 1.75
   yes 2.2 1.3 2.0 2.0 2.7 Alluvial Valley Floors4 0.5 - 1.0 no 3% 8% 0%
   7% 5% Important Habitat5 2.0 - 3.0 no 207 196 1666 523 1165 acres acres
   acres acres acres 1 Importance weights on a scale of 0 to 3 with 3
   being most important. 2 Makes each component of the index parallel so
   that a lower index will always indicate greater suitability for mining.
   3 Average values calculated from Packer (1974). On a scale of 1 to 3, 3
   is most reclaimable. 4 Percents are of total tract area. 5 Habitats
   include cliffs, wetlands, riparian areas and stands of pine and
   juniper. 20 TRACT E TRACT D TRACT C TRACT B TRACT A MOST SUITABILITY
   FOR MINING LEAST Figure 7. Fuzzy Value Analysis example based on data
   in Table 4. Tract D is more suitable than Tract A, which in turn is
   better than Tract E. Since the bands for Tract B and Tract C overlap,
   it can not be assessed which Tract is better for mining. Similarly,
   Tract B is no better or worse than any other tract, and Tract C is only
   noticeably less suitable for mining than Tract D. 21 TRACT E TRACT D
   TRACT C TRACT B TRACT A MOST SUITABILITY FOR MINING LEAST Figure 8.
   Fuzzy Value Analysis example based on data in Table 4, except that the
   most important criteria became seam thickness (weights changed to a
   range of 4 to 5). Notice that most conclusions from Figure 7 hold
   except that the relative positions of Tract A and Tract C have
   switched. 22 changing the importance weight of seam thickness to a
   range of from 3 to 4. This is pointed out to show that results may be
   counterintuitive. DESCRIPTION OF WORKSHOPS Workshops have an important
   role in our group's operational philosophy. The major com
