http://www.usgcrp.gov/usgcrp/ProgramElements/understanding.htm

   About

        Site Map

                New

                   Library

                          Events

                                Links


   USGCRP Home -> Focus Areas -> Climate Variability & Change | Search
   USGCRP logo & link to home

                          Updated January 04, 2002

                                                  Climate Variability and Change
                                                  USGCRP Program Element




                       Climate Variability and Change

                                  Overview

                           Recent Accomplishments

                                New Postings

                              Archived Postings

                                Related Sites

                             Calls for Proposals

   The Earths climate system is an important influence on the social and
   economic well-being of our societies, affecting water resources,
   ecosystems, and temperature patterns that enable and in some cases
   restrain a diverse array of activities. Fluctuations in climate occur
   naturally over time scales ranging from seasons to centuries and
   beyond. There is emerging evidence that humans may be influencing the
   climate by increasing the concentration of greenhouse gases in the
   atmosphere.

   As evidenced by the 1997-1998 El Niño-Southern Oscillation event,
   climatic variations can seriously disrupt the world's socioeconomic
   activity, resulting in the loss of human lives and billions of dollars
   worldwide. However, these same fluctuations in climate can provide
   opportunities in some areas by, for example, bringing increased
   rainfall to a semi-arid region, resulting in an increase in
   agricultural productivity. The key to mitigating the damage and taking
   advantage of the opportunities presented by climate variability lies in
   large part in achieving a predictive understanding of the climate
   system as a whole, including its multiple modes of variability across
   timescales and its interaction with human systems. Unraveling the
   complexities of the climate system offers opportunities to make optimal
   use of this knowledge in the pursuit of economic development and social
   benefits in the coming century.

   Future development in two key areas are required to meet research
   challenges. First, US climate modeling capabilities must be improved to
   develop, test, and explore coupled models.  These models address
   fundamental scientific questions regarding the understanding and
   predictability of the earth's natural climate system. Second, a global
   observational system must be developed that is capable of providing
   climate-quality data.  Such data is essential to understanding the
   mechanisms, monitoring the variability, and predicting future changes
   of the climate system. Research programs with broad-perspectives are
   needed to strengthen these two foundations.

   Throughout the past decade of climate research, the USGCRP has focused
   on understanding and predicting the variability within the Earths
   various subsystems. This approach has enabled predictions of the
   behavior of individual subsystems, such as the El Niño-Southern
   Oscillation (ENSO), with some degree of confidence and has also
   revealed the many linkages among these subsystems (for example, the
   connection between ENSO and the Atlantic Ocean). Future success in
   climate prediction depends on tapping the current wealth of knowledge
   to develop an integrated understanding of the climate system as a
   whole, rather than focusing on its individual components.

   This holistic approach will be advanced through unprecedented levels of
   interagency collaboration in a combination of modeling, observations,
   and process studies that will be conducted within the framework of the
   international Program on Climate Variability and Predictability
   (CLIVAR). The programs emphasis on both intellectual and interagency
   integration will lead to an improved predictive understanding of the
   climate system across virtually all timescales.

   Key research challenges include:
     * Natural Climate Patterns:
          + Extending and improving the capability to make El
            Niño-Southern Oscillation predictions
          + Improving knowledge of decadal to century-scale natural
            climate patterns, including their fundamental governing
            mechanisms, distributions in time and space, and ultimately
            their predictability
          + Improving the optimal model characterizations of climate
            patterns, their mechanistic controls, and feedbacks
          + Improving knowledge of the sensitivities of climate patterns
            to changes in forcing, including their interactions with, and
            responses to, anthropogenic forcing.
     * Global Monsoon: Enhanced understanding of monsoon mechanisms,
       defining the role of the monsoon on other climate variations (e.g.
       ENSO), and improving long-term predictability of monsoons.
     * Land-atmosphere and ocean-atmosphere exchanges: Understanding the
       roles of land-surface as well as ocean-atmosphere energy and water
       exchanges and their correct representation in models for
       predictions on seasonal and longer time scales.
     * Impacts on Weather: Understanding how climate variability on
       seasonal and longer time scales is manifested in changes of local
       weather characteristics, including storms, floods, and other
       extreme weather events.
     * Downscaling: Improving the ability to interpret the effects of
       large-scale climate variability on a local scale.
     * Anthropogenic Perturbations: Improving understanding of the
       long-term responses of the climate system to the anthropogenic
       addition of radiatively active constituents to the atmosphere, and
       devising methods of detecting anthropogenic influences against the
       background of natural climate variability.


   Note:   As of October 2000, the issues related to  paleoenvironment and
   paleoclimate are mostly covered under the broad  "Climate Variability
   and Change" research element.  However categorized on this web site,
   paleoenvironment and paleoclimate continues to be an important element
   of global change research and  is essential not just to our
   understanding of the past but of future climate change.


   USGCRP logo & link to home US Global Change Research Program Office,
   400 Virginia Ave, SW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20024. Tel: +1 202 488
   8630. Fax: +1 202 488 8681. Email: information@usgcrp.gov. Web:
   www.usgcrp.gov. Webmaster: WebMaster@usgcrp.gov
