http://www.cdfifundhelp.gov/nmtcwebinstrFP.htm

   WHAT IS A LOW-INCOME COMMUNITY?

      Distress criteria.  A Low Income Community means any population census
      tract that meets one of the following criteria (as reported in the most
      recently completed decennial census published by the U.S. Bureau of the
      Census):
        * The poverty rate for census tract is at least 20 percent, or
        * In the case of a Low Income Community located:

      i.    outside of a metropolitan area, the median family income (MFI)
      for such tract does not exceed 80 percent of statewide MFI, or

      ii.   within a metropolitan area, the MFI for such tract does not
      exceed 80 percent of the greater of statewide MFI or metropolitan area
      MFI, or

      iii.  within a possession of the United States, the MFI does not exceed
      80% of possessionwide median family income.

      Targeted Areas:  The Secretary may designate any area within any census
      tract as a Low Income Community if
        * The boundary of such area is contiguous,
        * the area would satisfy the distress criteria of a Low Income
          Community if it were a census tract, and
        * an inadequate access to investment capital exists in such area.

      Areas Not Within Census Tracts: In the case of an area which is not
      tracted for population census tracts, the equivalent county divisions
      (as defined by the U.S. Bureau of the Census for purposes of defining
      poverty areas) shall be used for purposes of determining poverty rates
      and median family income.



   HOW DO I LOCATE ELIGIBLE LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES?

   Applicants may locate eligible Low-Income Communities within their service
   area by selecting the “I Want to Locate Low-Income Communities Now” link
   under the NMTC Program portion of this website.  You may locate eligible
   Low-Income Communities by (A) searching geographic areas throughout the
   country or (B) entering the addresses of your customers or transactions.

   (A) Searching geographic areas throughout the country:  If you know the
   census tract numbers that you would like to verify, click on option #1 “Use
   County Names and/or Census Tract Numbers.”  If you would like to do a broader
   geographical search for eligible census tracts, click on option #2 “Search
   for Low-Income Communities Around the United States and its Territories.”

   1.        Choose a state from the map or drop down box and press “submit.”

   2.        Select a county. If you know the census tracts that comprise your
   service area enter the six-digit census tract number in the space provided.
   (You must type in all 6-digits of the tract number and separate tract number
   by ':'; Example: 000101:000201:121200). Once you have entered your census
   tract numbers, press “submit.”

   3.        You will see an interactive GIS mapping window of the county or
   census tracts you have selected. There are several radial buttons you can
   select to perform the following functions:

   o        Zoom In: This button allows you to zoom in to get a close look at
   your selected area. You can see census tract numbers and names of major
   roads.

   o        Zoom Out: This button allows you to zoom out from your selected area
   and see adjacent areas.

   o        Pan: This button allows you to move in any direction on the map. To
   use this function, select the “Pan” button and click on any edge of the map
   to move in that direction.

   o        Add: This button allows you to select additional census tracts
   within your service area. To use this function, select the “Add” button and
   click on each census tract you would like to designate.

   o        Deselect: This button only appears after you have submitted one or
   more census tracts. It allows you to remove census tracts from your
   selection.

   o        Tract/County: These buttons allow you to change your geographic unit
   level to either tract or county.
       4. On the map, you will see shaded census tracts. Shaded census tracts
          indicate that the tracts individually meet the Low Income Community
          criteria. White shaded census tracts indicate that the tracts
          individually do not meet the Low Income Community criteria.

   Optional:  You can create a Low Income Community map, worksheet and Market
   Data Reports through the CDFI Fund Online Help Desk quickly, easily and
   accurately as follows:

   5.       To designate Low Income Communities within your service area,
   select the ADD button. Using your mouse, click on the Low-Income census
   tracts that you wish to designate.  The borders of the census tracts that you
   have selected will be highlighted in orange.

      6.        Once you have selected the census tract(s), press the Submit
      button.
       7. The next screen will give you the option of printing a map,
          worksheet or Market Data Reports. Fill in the name of your
          organization, the title of your Low Income Community, and the city
          and state of the Low Income Community in the spaces provided. This
          information will appear on each option you choose to print. You can
          print by selecting one or more option boxes and pressing the submit
          button. The data may take several seconds to process. After the
          data has processed, each item you request[DEL: ed :DEL] will appear
          as a window in your browser. If you request multiple materials,
          separate windows will open simultaneously. Depending on your
          computer, you may see all three windows or you may need to open
          each window individually. To open a window, select the document
          from the file button that will appear at the bottom of the computer
          screen.

      (B) Entering the Addresses of your customers or transactions.  If you
      know the addresses of your customers or transactions, you can use our
      Online Geocoder to determine whether the activities fall within an
      eligible Low Income Community.  Click on option #3 “Use the Addresses
      of Your Customers or Transactions.” [DEL: :DEL]

      1.        On the geocoder page, please provide the requested
      information for your organization and the number or records you wish to
      enter. Press the submit button.

      2.        For each record, enter the address, city, state and zip code
      of the transaction (do not indicate apartment numbers). Post Office
      (P.O.) Boxes cannot be geocoded. Indicate the dollar amount of the
      transaction. Next, indicate whether this is an actual transaction or if
      this is a prospective transaction. If it is an actual transaction,
      enter the date the transaction was closed. For all transactions, select
      the transaction type (e.g. consumer loans) from the drop down list.

      3.        You will see an interactive GIS mapping window of the area
      you selected. The census tracts that contain the addresses of your
      customer or transactions will already be selected and a red dot will
      show the actual location of the address(es) on the map. The borders of
      these census tracts will be highlighted in orange. You can print a
      report showing the census tract number of each activity by selecting
      the “report” button at the bottom of the map.

      4.        There are several radial buttons surrounding the map you can
      select to perform the following functions:

      ·         Zoom In: This button allows you to zoom in to get a close
      look at your selected area.  You can see census tract numbers and names
      of major roads.

      ·         Zoom Out: This button allows you to zoom out from your
      selected area and see adjacent areas.

      ·         Pan: This button allows you to move in any direction on the
      map. To use this function, select the “Pan” button and click on any
      edge of the map to move in that direction.

      ·         Add: This button allows you to select the census tracts you
      wish to designate as part of your Low Income Community. To use this
      function, select the “Add” button and click on each census tract you
      would like to designate.

      ·         Deselect: This button only appears after you have submitted
      one or more census tracts. It allows you to remove census tracts from
      your selection.

      ·         Tract/County: These buttons allow you to change your
      geographic unit level to either tract or county.

      5.        On the map, you will see shaded census tracts. Shaded census
      tracts indicate that the tracts individually meet the Low Income
      Community criteria. White shaded census tracts indicate that the tracts
      individually do not meet the Low Income Community criteria.

      Optional:  You can create a Low Income Community map, worksheet and
      Market Data Reports through the CDFI Fund Online Help Desk quickly,
      easily and accurately as follows:

      6.       To designate Low Income Communities within your service area,
      select the ADD button. Using your mouse, click on the Low-Income census
      tracts that you wish to designate. The borders of the census tracts
      that you have selected will be highlighted in orange.

      7.        Once you have selected the census tract(s), press the Submit
      button.
       8. The next screen will give you the option of printing a map,
          worksheet or Market Data Reports. Fill in the name of your
          organization, the title of your Low Income Community, and the city
          and state of the Low Income Community in the spaces provided. This
          information will appear on each option you choose to print. You can
          print by selecting one or more option boxes and pressing the submit
          button. The data may take several seconds to process. After the
          data has processed, each item you request[DEL: ed :DEL] will appear
          as a window in your browser. If you request multiple materials,
          separate windows will open simultaneously. Depending on your
          computer, you may see all three windows or you may need to open
          each window individually. To open a window, select the document
          from the file button that will appear at the bottom of the computer
          screen.
          __________________________________________________________________

   Click here to go to the top of the page
