http://www.usphs.gov/html/pay.html

   buttons
   Pay
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif]

   Public Health Service commissioned officers are paid monthly.   Their
   pay consists of two parts - pay (taxable) and allowances (usually
   non-taxable).

   BASIC PAY + ALLOWANCES + SPECIAL PAY (IF ELIGIBLE) = GROSS PAY


                                  BASIC PAY

   The Basic Pay portion is considered to be the officer's actual salary
   and is subject to Federal income tax, Social Security tax (FICA), and
   in most cases, state income tax.  The rate of basic pay is based on the
   officer's temporary grade/rank and the
   Base Pay Entry Date (BPED).  The BPED is usually the officer's
   call-to-active-duty date, although it may be adjusted for prior service
   in other Uniformed Services.  The second important date is the Training
   and Experience date (T & E) which reflects the officer's creditable
   training and experience related to the officer's professional
   category/specialty and determines rank and promotion eligibility.  The
   initial rate of Basic Pay is determined by the officer's BPED and
   rank.  Subsequent increases in base pay result from length of service
   and promotion to the next higher rank.  To review the basic pay rates,
   log on to http://www.dfas.mil/money/milpay/.


                                 ALLOWANCES

   Basic Allowance for Subsistence
   (BAS) is a monthly allowance payable to all officers at the same rate
   regardless of rank/BPED unless meals are provided by the Service.  BAS
   is non-taxable.

   Basic Allowances for Housing (BAH) is a monthly allowance payable to
   all officers stationed within the Continental United States (CONUS),
   including Alaska and Hawaii.  It provides compensation for housing
   rental, renters insurance, and utilities.  The rate is determined by
   the officer's permanent duty station zip code, grade, and dependency
   status.  If an officer is assigned to government housing (does not live
   on the economy), he/she will not be entitled to this allowance.  BAH is
   non-taxable.

   Conus Cola Allowance (CCOLA) is a monthly allowance payable to certain
   duty stations that are considered high cost areas within the
   Continental United States.  It provides compensation for variations in
   non-housing expenditures to adjust to regional cost differences within
   CONUS.  The rate is determined by the officer's permanent duty station
   zip code, grade, and dependency status.  CCOLA is taxable.

   Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) is a monthly allowance paid to
   officers stationed out of the Continental United States (OUTCONUS),
   other than Alaska and Hawaii, who live on the local economy.  It
   provides compensation for housing rental plus compensates for
   utility/recurring maintenance.  The monthly amount payable is based on
   comparing the officer's rent, up to a rental ceiling for the duty
   location and adds on an allowance for utility/recurring maintenance for
   that location.  The rent cap and utility allowance is determined by
   grade and dependent status for each location.  OHA is non-taxable.

   Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) is a monthly allowance paid to officers
   stationed in high-cost areas out of the Continental United States
   (OUTCONUS), including Alaska and Hawaii.   It provides purchasing power
   so the officer can purchase about the same goods and services overseas
   as in the United States.  The rate established is based on the
   officer's grade, base pay entry date, and the actual number of
   dependents residing in his or her household.  COLA is non-taxable

   Log on to
   http://www.dfas.mil/money/milpay/ to obtain specific rates for any of
   the above allowances at your desired duty location.


                                 SPECIAL PAY

   There are a number of special pays that are applicable to several
   categories/specialities.  These special pays consist of monthly pays
   and annual lump sum contractual pays.  For special pay information
   specific to your category, click on the hyperlink of your professional
   Category and the question about special pay listed on the home page.


                             STATE INCOME TAXES

   As a commissioned officer in the Public Health Service, you are covered
   under the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act which protects your
   Uniformed Services' pay from the income taxes of the State in which you
   reside by reason of military orders, unless that is also your legal
   residence/domicile. The Act further provides that no change in your
   State of legal residence/domicile will occur solely as a result of your
   being ordered to a new duty station.


                             PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

   Voluntary allotments can be deducted from your pay to purchase bonds,
   pay life insurance premiums, contribute to charities, and the financial
   organization of your choice.


   If you are an active duty officer and have questions not related to
   recruitment, please call 1-877-INFO-DCP (1-877-463-6327), 301-594-0401
   or visit the DCP telephone directory.

   If you are an applicant or anyone else with Recruitment, Job or
   Application questions, please email
   phs@psc.gov or call 1-800-279-1605 or 301-594-3360.
