http://speclab.cr.usgs.gov/aboutimsp.html

   U.S. Geological Survey home page

About Imaging Spectroscopy

   http://speclab.cr.usgs.gov

  IMAGING SPECTROSCOPY/SPECTROSCOPY INFORMATION

   (The information described here is specifically written for USGS
   scientists to understand imaging spectroscopy and what it takes to
   analyze the data for USGS programs using our currently developed
   methods. However, the information should be generally useful to all
   those interested in imaging spectroscopy.)

  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

   WHAT IS IMAGING SPECTROSCOPY?
          Imaging spectroscopy is a new tool that can be used to map
          specific materials by detecting specific chemical bonds. As a
          result it is an excellent tool for environmental assessments,
          mineral mapping and exploration, vegetation communities/species
          and health studies, and general land management studies.

          The premier imaging spectrometer is the NASA/JPL AVIRIS system,
          covering a 10.5 km swath with 17-meter pixel spacing. AVIRIS
          collects data at a rate of 2 square kilometers per second!

   DATA ACQUISITION PLANNING
          Normally, AVIRIS data acquisition must be planned well in
          advance, up to approximately a year. However, as paying
          customers some acquisitions can be planned a few months in
          advance.

   COST
          AVIRIS data cost about $10 per square kilometer, but must be
          funded in full flights ($64k per flight + $6k per flight hour).
          A full flight can cover up to about 8,000 square kilometers
          spread over multiple sites.

   CALIBRATION
          AVIRIS data require ground support information to calibrate the
          data to surface reflectance for mapping materials. It takes
          about 30 to 60 person days to calibrate an AVIRIS data set from
          one area (up to 8,000 sq km) for one flight-day. Calibration
          uses a combinations of field spectrometers and laboratory
          spectrometers, as well as radiative-transfer calculations.

   WHAT IT TAKES TO ANALYZE IMAGING SPECTROMETER DATA
          Computer analysis takes a trained person only a few days per
          couple of hundred square kilometers' worth of data. This can
          include creating maps of many minerals. Current standard
          analysis produces materials maps for more than 260 materials and
          is expected to grow to hundreds of materials in the near future
          (note not all materials may be found in a given area).

   WHAT IT TAKES TO VERIFY IMAGING SPECTROMETER DATA
          Imaging spectroscopy analysis can be done with only a few days
          of work per couple of hundred square kilometers of data. The
          analysis can produce a several-hundred-layer GIS database. The
          various layers can be assembled into materials maps which must
          begeometrically corrected and verified in the field to ensure
          the data were analyzed correctly and all relevant materials were
          included in the mapping process. It can take a couple of weeks
          or more to verify the results and begin to understand the
          complexities mapped, and depends on the scientific questions
          being posed. Minerals, environmental materials, man-made
          materials, and vegetation species/communities maps are a new
          paradigm and understanding this new technology and what science
          questions can be answered with it will take training and effort.

   PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER, FROM PLANNING TO COMPLETED ANALYSIS AND
          REPORTS
          Complete analysis of a full flight of AVIRIS data, from flight
          planning, calibration, materials mapping and verification,
          laboratory analyses of samples, data registration, map
          production, and science reports takes on the order of seven
          person years of effort. Smaller areas take less time, depending
          on the science to be done.

   UNIQUE FACILITIES
          Specialized facilities are required to successfully map
          materials with imaging spectroscopy. Laboratory and field
          spectrometers are required to calibrate imaging spectroscopy
          data, measure reference samples, and verify mapping results.

   TRAINING BY THE SPECTROSCOPY GROUP
          The USGS Denver spectroscopy group can train about six
          scientists per year, covering a maximum of three new AVIRIS
          sites per year.

  WHAT IS IMAGING SPECTROSCOPY?

   Imaging spectroscopy is the application of reflectance/emittance
   spectroscopy to every pixel in a spatial image. Spectroscopy can be
   used to detect individual absorption features due to specific chemical
   bonds in a solid, liquid, or gas. Solids can be either crystalline
   (i.e. minerals) or amorphous (like glasses). Every material is formed
   by chemical bonds, and has the potential for detection with
   spectroscopy. Actual detection is dependent on the spectral coverage,
   spectral resolution, and signal-to-noise of the spectrometer, the
   abundance of the material and the strength of absorption features for
   that material in the wavelength region measured. In remote sensing
   situations, the surface materials mapped must be exposed in the optical
   surface (e.g., to map surface mineralogy it must not be covered with
   vegetation), and the diagnostic absorption features must be in regions
   of the spectrum that are reasonably transparent to the atmosphere (the
   atmosphere can be corrected for all but the strongest absorptions). The
   optical surface is the same as what the geologist sees in the field
   with his or her eyes. Spectroscopy can be used in laboratories on hand
   samples, in the field with portable field spectrometers (spatial
   resolution in the millimeter to several meter range), from aircraft,
   and in the future from satellites. The aircraft systems now operational
   can image large areas in short time (~2 sq. km per second!), producing
   spectra for each pixel that can be analyzed for specific absorption
   bands and thus specific materials.

   The premier sensor is the NASA/JPL AVIRIS system (Airborne Visual and
   Infra-Red Imaging Spectrometer). AVIRIS currently covers the wavelength
   region from 0.38 to 2.50 microns with 17-meter pixel spacing (20-meter
   spot) and a 10.5-km swath. AVIRIS is flown on an ER-2 (U2) aircraft at
   65,000 feet. Next year AVIRIS should have capability to fly on a C130
   aircraft and have 5-meter pixel spacing and a 2.5 km swath. While
   AVIRIS data can be used to make any scale maps, the data from ER-2
   altitudes makes excellent 1:24,000-scale maps.

   The AVIRIS spectral range is excellent for detecting electronic
   transitions in minerals (e.g., iron oxides, Fe2+ bearing minerals,
   etc.), vegetation (vegetation species, health, green leaf water
   content), and vibrational absorptions due to lighter elements (OH, SO4,
   CO3, CH, etc., so OH-bearing minerals, carbonates, sulfates and
   organics are mappable). Diagnostic absorptions also exist due to other
   processes. For example, Rare Earth ions involve deep-lying electrons
   and are not diagnostic of mineralogy but of the presence of the ions in
   the mineral, thus specific Rare Earth Elements are detectable with the
   AVIRIS spectral range. Vibrational absorptions from heavier elements
   such as Si-O (quartz) occur in the mid-infrared and are not covered by
   AVIRIS. Currently, only broad-band sensors (e.g., TIMS) are available
   in the mid-IR, although new mid-IR systems are under development.

   The NAVY/Civilian HYDICE imaging spectrometer has AVIRIS like
   capabilities but 1-meter to 3-meter spatial resolution, is currently
   flying in a testing mode, and should become available for use in the
   next year.

  DATA ACQUISITION PLANNING

   A NASA ER-2 flight is like launching a rocket through commercial
   airspace and requires significant advance planning on their part. Thus,
   NASA plans the whole spring/summer/fall flight season the previous
   year. The ER-2 is only deployed from several (continental United
   States) places: Moffet Field near San Francisco, Whollops Island on the
   east coast, and occasionally Topeka, Kansas, or Spokane, Washington.
   Depending on the data requests, the aircraft may be deployed out of one
   of these locations for a several week period to acquire data near that
   base.

   As paying customers, we do not need to give exact sites a year in
   advance, but NASA would like our best ideas so they may plan
   accordingly (e.g., what bases they need to deploy from). Each year,
   AVIRIS acquires data equivalent to an area greater than the size of the
   State of Nevada to provide data for numerous research programs, ranging
   from geology, ecosystems, water/ocean, to clouds/atmosphere. Sites
   generally are found all over the United States. One year AVIRIS was
   deployed in Europe; this year it went to Alaska and South America.

   Consequently, as soon as we can after a project's budget is approved,
   we must give NASA an idea of how much data we might want in the coming
   year. For example, we may want 3 sites in the western United States
   (deployment from Moffet Field) covering X sq km in states A, B, and C.
   Then approximately next March, at the latest, we would need to finalize
   the sites and give NASA coordinates of specific flight lines.

   As part of the data-acquisition planning stage, it is also necessary to
   plan for ground calibration. When NASA flies the requested sites
   (usually the May-July time frame), a team must obtain ground
   calibration data as near as possible to the day of the overflight.
   Depending on the ER-2 schedule and weather, the ground crew could be
   sitting in the field for days waiting for the flight, or do a
   last-minute scramble to get to another site. (See CALIBRATION below.)

   AVIRIS data are recorded on a tape that vholds 70 minutes of data. The
   ER-2 aircraft travels at 734 km/hr (12.233 km/minute). Pre-calibration
   plus post calibration for each flight takes up about 5 minutes of data
   tape, leaving about 65 minutes of flight data (about 795 km in length).
   Some tape movement occurs at the beginning and end of each line of
   data, so about 1.25 minutes are lost for each flight line (equivalent
   to 15.3 km). Thus the achievable flight data lengths = 795 - lines*15.3
   km.

   Thus the following table shows in practice what can be covered per
   flight:

   Line Segments Total km of data
   1             780
   2             764
   3             749
   4             734
   5             718
   6             703
   7             688
   8             673
   9             657
   10            642
   11            626
   12            611
   13            596
   14            581
   15            565

   Finally, a flight can be no longer than 6.5 hours without special
   permission. So you must plan how long it takes to get to and from your
   site, and plan on about 15 minutes per turn.

  COST

   AVIRIS data cost about $10.00 per sq. km when large areas are covered.
   AVIRIS covers a 10.5 km swath and about 800 km of data can be flown per
   day (~8,000 sq km). No cost has been set for HYDICE data.

   In practice, NASA requires whole flights funded (the cost for a flight
   is mostly fixed, regardless of how much data are collected). Cost
   sharing with other researchers is possible if multiple requests are
   made to fit together into a single flight. One full flight of data
   costs $64,000 plus $6,000 per flight hour of the ER-2. Fortunately, at
   a speed of 734 km/hr, only 1.1 hours of data collection time are needed
   to acquire a full data tape (10 Gbytes; ~8,000 sq km). Additional
   flight time involves getting to and from the site, and in making turns
   for each flight line.

   Note: one full AVIRIS tape is 10 gigabytes of raw data, but when
   converted to 16-bit calibrated data for delivery, this becomes about 14
   GBytes!

   An additional requirement to getting a full flight's worth of data is
   that the sites covered must be near each other (like a few hundred
   miles) so that there is reasonable time for the plane to get to each
   one. For example, when launching from Moffet Field, a site in Nevada,
   Utah and Colorado might be feasible because they could be on a general
   line from the base. An example that would not work would be something
   like the New World Mine near Yellowstone and a site in Arizona (we
   would be charged for 2 flights: $64k each + flight hours).

  CALIBRATION

   Imaging spectroscopy data come in radiance, and thus have the solar
   flux spectrum, the earth's atmospheric absorption bands (you can map
   atmospheric gas abundances), and surface reflectance in the data. The
   surface reflectance is what we need for land-management studies. The
   data are calibrated by a combination radiative transfer atmospheric
   transmission model and by measuring the reflectance of relatively large
   homogeneous areas on the ground with a field spectrometer (a playa,
   rock outcrop or grassy field have all been used; playas work best). The
   effort to calibrate one site (one day's worth of data in one region up
   to ~8,000 sq km) requires a minimum of 2 people to visit the
   calibration site(s) near the time of the overflight (within a couple of
   weeks; before any rainstorm). The field spectrometer data are obtained
   by walking over the site collecting a few hundred spectra averaging the
   site as much as possible. Samples are obtained and measured on a
   laboratory spectrometer to confirm the field data. Spectra from the
   imaging spectrometer data are extracted over the calibration site(s),
   and compared with the field and lab data. A set of correction
   multipliers and offsets are derived and applied to the data.

   The entire calibration process takes about ~30 PERSON DAYS OF WORK (1.5
   person-months), for each day/site of imaging spectrometer data, whether
   the site is a small area of only a hundred sq. km, or large ~8,000 sq
   km). If the calibration is complex with no uniform areas, it could take
   longer.

  WHAT IT TAKES TO ANALYZE IMAGING SPECTROMETER DATA

   Although many groups around the country are developing methods for
   analyzing imaging spectrometer data, the USGS imaging spectroscopy
   group is currently leading the world in capability. The USGS Tricorder
   algorithm can analyze for hundreds (or thousands) of materials
   simultaneously solving for what is present on the surface, whether it
   be minerals, environmental materials, land, water, or ecosystems
   related. Note that not all materials may be found in a given area, but
   that too can be important information, especially environmental
   contamination.

   We group AVIRIS data in 10.5-km wide by 17.5-km long segments (614x1024
   pixels), covering 184 sq. km. Called a double segment, it takes less
   than 2 hours to analyze for 250 materials on a 140 MFLOP workstation
   (like our HP 9000/K250). The analysis is fairly routine in that command
   files exist to automatically do such analyses. One double segment of
   imaging spectrometer data takes up 598 megabytes of disk space (282
   Mbytes of radiance data, 282 Mbytes of calibrated data, and ~34 Mbytes
   of ancillary data = 598 Mbytes).

   The output products comprise 3 files per material mapped, so if 300
   materials were mapped, 566 Mbytes of results (614*1024*300*3) are
   obtained (we compress them, so the output is 3 to 10 times less space).
   Results of mapping for 300 materials in essence makes a 300 layer GIS
   data base. Note that current GIS systems only use uncompressed data (to
   our knowledge) and we are not aware of any that can handle this many
   layers.

   The biggest bottleneck in producing final products is the scientist
   evaluating and understanding what was mapped and not data processing.
   After all, these mineral/material maps are a new paradigm providing
   unprecedented new information. For each data set, images of all the
   materials must be reviewed. We have clustering analysis tools and the
   system builds a set of image display commands to quickly go through
   such a huge amount of images. Typically, once you have experience in an
   area with the data, you can setup, analyze, and review the data for
   about 1 double segment per day (184 sq. km per day).

   Another day is required to construct color composite map images, and
   yet another is required to register the data to a map base. Thus about
   3 days of work by a trained, experienced person are required per double
   segment to analyze. This does not not include detailed evaluation or
   verification of results. That depends on the area complexity and the
   science questions being asked.

  WHAT IT TAKES TO VERIFY IMAGING SPECTROMETER DATA

   Verification is the most time intensive aspect. Such large areas are
   covered (even one double segment of 184 sq. km) that field checking can
   require a significant amount of time. The materials maps steer you to
   the interesting areas, and with the help of a field spectrometer, the
   mapped minerals can, in most cases, be verified real time in the field.
   A final verification will sometimes require study of hand samples from
   the field using laboratory X-ray diffraction analysis or other methods
   as appropriate. Verification depends on the complexity of the scene,
   remoteness and topography. Basic verification can take a couple of
   weeks, or more, depending on how much area needs to be checked.

   Verification may result in additional minerals being identified which
   were not included in the original imaging spectroscopy analysis. Thus,
   a second round of analysis and verification is required (this again
   depends on the site complexity, what is already in the standard
   Tricorder mapping, and what science questions are being asked).

  PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER, FROM PLANNING TO COMPLETED ANALYSIS AND REPORTS

   Complete analysis of a full flight of AVIRIS data, from flight
   planning, calibration, materials mapping and verification, laboratory
   analyses of samples, data registration, map production, and science
   reports takes on the order of seven person years of effort. Smaller
   areas take less time, depending on the science to be done. Below is a
   list of the generalized steps. Verification steps take the majority of
   the time.
     * 1) Flight planning, Data acquisition support and field calibration.
       This effort is valid for a "site" which could be one entire flight,
       or a single region of a multi- region flight.
     * 2) Apply calibration to AVIRIS radiance data to derive surface
       reflectance.
     * 3) Materials mapping (e.g. tricorder),
     * 4) Verification of mapping results, including field work and
       laboratory analyses. Science analyses.
     * 5) Data registration and map generation for more detailed field
       verifications.
     * 6) Laboratory spectroscopy of additional materials. Sometimes
       special research may need to be done to characterize and understand
       samples and observed spectra.
     * 7) Revised materials mapping based on above verification. Science
       analyses.
     * 8) Data registration and final map production.
     * 9) Reports and papers

  WHAT IS POSSIBLE

    Small Area (~100 to 400 sq. km)

   A team of 3 trained in imaging spectroscopy could calibrate the data in
   about 1.5 person-months and then map the surface mineralogy,
   vegetation, and environmental materials for a small area (100-400 sq
   km) for about 200-400 materials in about 0.5 person-month. Verification
   and field studies would take an additional couple of months.

   Data volume for 2 double segments (368 sq km) would be 564 Mbytes of
   radiance data, 564 Mbytes of calibrated data, about 68 Mbytes of
   ancillary data, and about 761 Mbytes of uncompressed data products (for
   400 materials). All data are stored on read/write optical disks, each
   with a 1.3 Gbyte capacity. Three optical disks would be needed ($200
   data storage costs). Data acquisition costs would be a few thousand
   dollars, depending on cost sharing other sites covered by the AVIRIS
   flight. Note: a full AVIRIS flight ($64k + flight hours) must still be
   funded.

   An example of a study of this size is the one we completed at
   Leadville, the California Gulch Superfund Site, where we mapped mine
   drainage, finding the most hazardous waste piles, saving time and
   dollars in the remediation process. Leadville took a couple of
   person-years of effort.

    Medium area: Lessons from Summitville (12 AVIRIS double segments)

   A team of 3 trained in imaging spectroscopy could map the surface
   mineralogy for a Summitville class area (~2,000 sq km) including
   calibration and first mapping pass of 200 to 400 materials in about 2.5
   months (5 person-months). Verification and field studies would take
   several months.

   Data volume would be about 7.2 Gbytes (12 double scenes). Data
   acquisition costs would be about $20-40k assuming cost sharing with
   another study in the area. Cost per sq. km: $10 to $20, depending on
   the cost sharing for the flight. Note: a full AVIRIS flight ($64k +
   flight hours) must still be funded.

    Large area: 1x2-degree sheet (~19,600 sq km, 115 AVIRIS double segments)

   A team of 6 trained people could map a 1x2-degree area with 2 to 2.5
   AVIRIS flights, and about 6 weeks of processing on a dedicated
   computer. A 1x2-degree data base would comprise a data set of about 68
   Gbytes for data (32 Gbytes for raw, 32 Gbytes for calibrated, and 4
   Gbytes of ancillary) PLUS 87 Gbytes for 400 [uncompressed] materials,
   for a total of approximately 155 GBytes. Compression of results should
   bring products down to about 30 Gbytes, for a total of 98 Gbytes.
   Approximately 85 1.3 GB optical disks would be required (storage cost
   about $5k). AVIRIS data acquisition costs would be about $240k. Cost
   per sq. km: ~$12 (in this scenario, there is about 0.5 AVIRIS flight of
   capacity that could be used for additional areas).

   Such a large area, complete with registered materials maps, verified
   and scientific papers written would involve about 20 person-years of
   effort.

    Very large area (several 1x2-degree sheets up to a state or more)

   Studies of this size would require special negotiation with NASA and
   JPL. A large study of this size would be a significant portion of the
   AVIRIS program. The AVIRIS group is interested in doing such large
   projects, even if spread over a couple of years. Such a large-scale
   effort could add enough money into the AVIRIS system that components
   like ground computers and airplane tape recorders could be upgraded so
   the cost per sq. km could be substantially less, perhaps as low as
   about $5 per sq. km.

   Total time for field verification and registered maps and scientific
   reports would be substantial but possible within the scope of the USGS.

  LIMITS TO WHAT PRESENT STAFF CAN DO

   The spectroscopy group staff is currently limited and believes a
   maximum of 3 new AVIRIS sites (in one AVIRIS flight) can be calibrated,
   mapped and verified per year without additional staff. See training
   issues section below. Laboratory and field spectrometers are another
   limitation; see unique facilities section below.

  UNIQUE FACILITIES

   Successful imaging spectroscopy analysis requires high quality spectra
   of reference materials. Development of the reference database requires
   laboratory spectrometers that can match (or better) the spectral
   resolution and signal to noise of the flight instruments. In addition,
   field spectrometers are needed for calibration of the data, and for
   verification of the results. The USGS has these facilities, but the
   project load is very high.

  TRAINING BY THE SPECTROSCOPY GROUP

   The central region spectroscopy group could probably train about 6
   scientists per year in imaging spectroscopy if the trainees worked on
   cooperative projects where all were interested in the results. Our best
   estimates indicate that minimum training would take about 6 weeks,
   including fundamentals of spectroscopy, familiarization with computer
   software, calibration, and field verification. The training would be
   broken up with 3 to 4 periods in 1- to 1.5-week segments. Training to
   become an expert in imaging spectroscopy, such that you can lead
   projects and research can take 2 or more years.

   The best way to make training a success is as follows. Choose 3 sites
   for which the USGS programs would like imaging spectroscopy mapping
   each year. Have up to six scientists plus support people who are
   interested in the 3 areas agree to learn imaging spectroscopy. We
   believe that scientists will learn more and be able to apply imaging
   spectroscopy to their problems if they can work directly with the
   imaging spectroscopy group on sites all are interested in and on
   problems that benefit all those involved. Scientists in the MRS Program
   seem to have a lot of common interests so cooperative research should
   not be a problem.

   If suitable sites and scientific problems can be addressed, then the
   imaging spectroscopy group and students will learn together how to
   solve interesting scientific problems with these new tools.

  FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

     * Roger N. Clark (303) 236-1332 rclark@speclab.cr.usgs.gov
     * Trude V.V. King (303) 236-1373 tking@speclab.cr.usgs.gov
     * Gregg A. Swayze (303) 236-0925 gswayze@speclab.cr.usgs.gov
     __________________________________________________________________

   link to speclab home page   link to speclab table of contents

   U.S. Geological Survey, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior
   This page URL= http://speclab.cr.usgs.gov/aboutimsp.html
   This page is maintained by: Dr. Roger N. Clark
   rclark@speclab.cr.usgs.gov
   Last modified Oct 26, 2001.
