http://www.nced.uscourts.gov/about_our_site.htm

   Home General Information Divisional Offices Local Rules Forms Internet
   Links RACER Job Opportunities About Our Site
































                              About Our Website

                               [acorrule.gif]

   S e c u r i t y    N o t i c e :

   This website is served by a computer system on a U.S. Government owned
   network. Personnel from the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
   District of North Carolina monitor this website and other systems
   available to the public for security purposes to ensure it remains
   available to all users and to protect information in the system. By
   accessing this website, you are expressly consenting to these
   monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.

   The public is authorized to read all pages that are not protected by
   password or other access controls.

                               [acorrule.gif]

   D i s c l a i m e r    N o t i c e :

     This website may contain hypertext links to information created and
     maintained by other public and private organizations. These links
     are provided for the user's convenience. While the information may
     be valuable, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
     North Carolina does not control or guarantee the accuracy,
     relevance, timeliness, or completeness of this outside information.
     The inclusion of links to external sources is not intended to
     reflect their importance, nor is it intended to endorse any views
     expressed, or products or services offered, on these outside sites,
     or the organizations sponsoring the sites.  Further, the U.S.
     District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina is not
     responsible for the creation or maintenance of websites linked to
     this site, and does not vouch for the accuracy, completeness, or
     currency of any of the material included on such sites.
     Documents posted in PDF format may be viewed using the the Adobe®
     Acrobat® Reader software.  This software is copyrighted by Adobe
     Systems Incorporated and is available as a free download from
     www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readermain.html.

     Any public document found on this server is not a TRUE COPY and
     cannot be used as such. For a TRUE COPY one must apply to the Intake
     desk at the Eastern District of North Carolina. Please call (919)
     856-4370 for information on obtaining certified TRUE copies of any
     document.

                                [acorrule.gif]

   P r i v a c y    N o t i c e :

   This section describes how we handle information about you gathered
   from your visit to our website. The information we receive depends upon
   what you do when visiting our site.

   If you visit our site to read or download information, such as
   information about the court or documents, we collect and store only the
   following information:
   [acorbul1.gif]

   The name of the domain from which you access the Internet and your IP
   address.
   [acorbul1.gif]

   The date and time you access our site.
   [acorbul1.gif]

   Any errors generated by the system resulting from your requests.


   This site uses software programs to create summary statistics which are
   used for such purposes as assessing the number of visitors to the
   different sections of our site, what information is of most and least
   interest, determining technical design specifications, and identifying
   system performance or problem areas.

   Please see our security statement for further information on how user
   logs may be used by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
   North Carolina.

                               [acorrule.gif]

   T e c h n i c a l   N o t i c e :

   Technical questions and suggestions about this web site may be
   submitted by email to nced_webmaster@nced.uscourts.gov.  Please use
   this email address for technical questions and/or suggestions only.
   Other questions should be addressed to the Clerk's Office by mail at
   P.O. Box 25670, Raleigh, North Carolina  27611, or by phone at (919)
   856-4370.
