http://t14web.lanl.gov/Research/TDAC2000/brand.quantum_mech.00.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature Detonation
   Theory & Application, T-14 April 2000 Quantum Mechanical Algorithm for
   Large-Scale Simulation of Materials Holmann V. Brand The computational
   study of formation and rupture of computational cost scales only
   linearly with the number chemical bonds amongst atoms in materials at
   various of atoms while at the same time retaining the same temperatures
   and pressures requires an algorithm based accuracy of the older
   conventional implementations. on quantum mechanics. Our objective is to
   implement a quantum mechanical procedure able to treat an For any given
   Hamiltonian matrix H, our method finds unprecedentedly large number of
   atoms in realistic first- the ground state energy E by calculating the
   electron principles computational studies of materials relevant to
   density matrix that minimizes the Laboratory's mission. E = Tr (H )
   subject to the constraints Conventional implementations of quantum
   mechanical = 2 approaches to materials science suffer from a severe and
   computational obstruction that impedes their use in large Tr ( ) = n
   scale simulation because their computational cost scales where n is the
   number of electrons. as N3, or at best N2, where N is the number of
   atoms included in the calculation. Our novel approach differs The
   figure illustrates directions for expansion of our radically from
   conventional implementations in that it is method into an extremely
   powerful tool for computational computationally much more efficient
   because its studies in the field of materials science. Parallel
   Condensed-Phase, Supercomputing 3-D Periodic Boundaries Quantum
   Mechanical Algorithm for Large-Scale Simulations of Materials Molecular
   Dynamics, Gas-Phase Monte Carlo Chemistry Our objective is to implement
   a quantum mechanical procedure able to treat an unprecedentedly large
   number of atoms in realistic first-principles computational studies of
   materials relevant to the Laboratory's mission. A U. S. Department of
   Energy Laboratory This paper is a portion of LA-UR-00-1. brand@lanl.gov
   Los Alamos
