http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/news-release/releases/2002/02-002.htm

   [spacer.gif]

   Contact:
   William Steigerwald
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
   Phone: 301/286-5017

   [spacer.gif] NASA News Header [spacer.gif]

   Jan. 7, 2002 - 10:00 a.m. EST - RELEASE NO: 02-002

   CHANDRA PLACES FURTHER LIMITS ON NATURE OF DARK MATTER

   NASA scientists using the Chandra X-ray Observatory have measured the
   distribution of dark matter in an elliptical galaxy on the smallest
   scale yet and found that this mysterious substance exists in high
   concentrations throughout most of galaxy.

   The detailed measurement implies that dark matter is not
   "self-interacting" in massive cosmic structures, such as elliptical
   galaxies or galaxy clusters. The finding strikes another blow at the
   "self-interacting dark matter" theory and thus narrows the field of
   candidates that can explain the enigmatic nature of dark matter, one of
   the most pressing questions in astronomy.

   Drs. Michael Loewenstein and Richard Mushotzky of NASA's Goddard Space
   Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., present the results of their Chandra
   observation of elliptical galaxy NGC 4636 today at the 199th Meeting of
   the American Astronomical Society in Washington, D.C.

   "We still don't know what dark matter is, but we now have a much better
   idea of what it isn't," said Loewenstein.

   Scientists say that approximately 90 percent of the matter in the
   Universe is in some dark, as yet detected, form that makes its presence
   felt only through gravity. All matter, by virtue of its mass, exerts a
   gravitational attraction. Dark matter seems to be the gravitational
   glue holding together galaxies and galaxy clusters, for neither type of
   cosmic structure has enough visible mass to keep it from flying apart.

   Big bang nucleosynthesis theory provides an estimate on the amount of
   "ordinary" matter in the Universe, and this rules out the possibility
   that dark matter is from dim stars, dark chunks of solid material or
   black holes. Dark matter must be exotic, that is, not made of protons
   and electrons. Various observations with radio, optical and X-ray
   telescopes aim to determine the distribution and nature of dark matter.

   Loewenstein and Mushotzky derived the total mass-to-light ratio in
   galaxy NGC 4636 and found that 50 to 80 percent of the matter (or mass)
   in the galaxy "proper" is non-luminous, from the core out to about
   35,000 light years -- farther than the distance from the Milky Way
   galaxy's core to Earth.

   This implies that dark matter is highly concentrated and suggests that
   dark matter (and least in large galaxies and, by extension, galaxy
   clusters) is not noticeably self-interacting. That is, particles of
   dark matter are not likely to collide with one another like billiard
   balls and "puff out" or become diffuse throughout the galaxy. In
   September, scientists from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
   drew a similar conclusion about dark matter in galaxy clusters, also
   from Chandra data.

   Loewenstein and Mushotzky's observation does not rule out other "cold
   dark matter" theories. These include exotic elementary particles such
   as WIMPS, axions, cosmic strings or supersymmetry particles.

   Quantum mechanics and general relativity, the two pillars of physics
   that attempt to explain the workings of the Universe from the atomic to
   the cosmic, do not predict the existence of dark matter. Defining dark
   matter, therefore, would be tantamount to establishing a more complete
   theory of the Universe, which may be flush with the rewards that
   quantum mechanics and general relativity have brought.

   Chandra observed NGC 4636, some 50 million light-years from Earth in
   the constellation Virgo, with its Advanced CCD Imaging Spectrometer for
   64,000 seconds. Data from the European Space Agency's XMM-Newton
   observatory was also used. Loewenstein joins NASA Goddard as a research
   associate with the University of Maryland, College Park.

   For a Chandra image of NGC 4636, refer to:
   http://chandra.harvard.edu/photo/cycle1/0144/

   Editor's Note: The presentation, "[25.05] Chandra Observations of NGC
   4636 and the Nature of Dark Matter in Elliptical Galaxies" is part of
   AAS session 25, "Black Holes, Dark Matter and X-ray Sources in
   Extragalactic Systems" on Monday at 10:00-11:30 a.m. in the
   International Ballroom East.

   :
