http://www.dtsc.ca.gov/ToxicQuestions/DTSC_Overview.html


      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   Home
                   Toxics Questions?
                   Public Notices
                   Calendar
                   Laws, Regulations, and Policies
                   Site Cleanup
                   Managing Hazardous Waste
                   Pollution Prevention
                   Science and Technology
                   News Releases
                   Publications and Forms
                   Employment
                   How to Contact DTSC
                   Department of Toxic Substances Control



   Department of Toxic Substances Control




        __________ search
   ( )  My CA (*)   This Site
           Search Tips


   DTSC: Toxics Questions

   DTSC, Who We Are and What We Do

   The Department of Toxic Substances Control, or DTSC, protects
   California and Californians from exposures to hazardous wastes. More
   than 1,000 scientists, engineers and specialized support staff work in
   nine offices statewide to:
     * Deal with the aftermath of improper hazardous waste management by
       overseeing site cleanups.
     * Prevent releases of hazardous waste by seeing that those who
       generate, handle, transport, store and dispose of wastes do so
       properly.
     * Take enforcement actions against those who fail to manage hazardous
       wastes appropriately.
     * Explore and promote means of preventing pollution, and encourage
       reuse and recycling.
     * Evaluate soil, water and air samples taken at sites, and develop
       new analytical methods.
     * Practice other environmental sciences, including toxicology, risk
       assessment and technology development.
     * Involve the public in DTSC's decision-making.

   DTSC Mission Statement

   The Department's mission is to restore, protect and enhance the
   environment, to ensure public health, environmental quality and
   economic vitality, by regulating hazardous waste, conducting and
   overseeing cleanups, and developing and promoting pollution prevention.

   Overview

   The Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) is responsible for
   regulating hazardous waste facilities and overseeing the cleanup of
   hazardous waste sites in California.
   Through its inspection, compliance and corrective action programs, DTSC
   ensures that state and federal requirements for managing hazardous
   wastes are implemented.  Nearly 200 major commercial facilities have
   authorization to treat, store and dispose of hazardous waste in
   California. The 5,000 businesses which conduct lower-risk treatment
   activities are regulated through a streamlined tiered permitting
   process or programs that provide an appropriate level of oversight.
   DTSC carries out its own statewide inspection program and responds to
   nearly 1,000 citizen complaints regarding hazardous waste handling per
   year.  Technical and investigative support is provided to federal
   prosecutors and local district attorneys who are prosecuting
   environmental crimes. Six local environmental programs, including
   inspection of the 60,000 businesses that generate hazardous waste, have
   been consolidated at the local level.  DTSC carries out administrative
   and oversight of 69 Certified Unified Programs.
   Thousands of properties through the State -- including former
   industrial plants, military bases, small businesses and landfills --
   are contaminated with some level of toxic substances.  Currently, work
   is underway on hundreds of contaminated properties throughout the
   State. Expediting this cleanup work is one of the most important goals
   of the program, and achievements are being realized toward these goals
   through the Voluntary Cleanup Program, Expedited Remedial Action pilot
   program, and the "Brownfields" initiative.
   In 1995, DTSC was given lead responsibility for cleanup activities of
   illegal clandestine drug labs and has worked with law enforcement
   agencies to remove toxic chemicals at more than 5,000 labs.
   Capitalizing on new environmental opportunities made possible through
   innovative technologies and pollution prevention activities, California
   is a national leader in developing better solutions to the management
   of hazardous wastes.  The Environmental Technology Certification
   Program, winner of the 1996 Innovations in Government Award, is
   fostering development and use of emerging technologies to improve the
   quality of the environment.  Formation of interstate and international
   technology partnerships has enhanced acceptance of these technologies
   beyond our borders, resulting in major economic and environmental
   benefits.

   Protecting Our Environment Brochure
     * English Version
     * En Español

   How We Are Organized

   Office Addresses and Main Phone Numbers

   Link to California's Home Page Back to Top of Page Back to DTSC's Home
                 Page Link to Governor Gray Davis' Home Page

   Cal/EPA | Air Resources Board | California Integrated Waste Management
                 Board | Department of Pesticide Regulation
       Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment | State Water
                           Resources Control Board
            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
     TM/2001 Hollywood Chamber of Commerce licensed by Global Icons, Los
                   Angeles, CA 90034. All Rights Reserved.
