http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/english_smr_final.pdf

   Preliminary English Subject Matter Requirements More than ever before,
   teachers of English in California's middle and high schools must
   deliver a complex and dynamic curriculum to students of every
   socioeconomic, linguistic and cultural background. Furthermore, society
   is increasingly technologically and media oriented. The
   Reading/Language Arts Framework for California Public Schools (1999)
   forms the basis for the preparation of English teachers, who must equip
   their students to meet the challenges of this changing world. In this
   context, new paradigms and models are required for teaching
   English/Language Arts. Multiple forms of literacy demand a broad
   theoretical knowledge of language and literacy acquisition, while new
   information technologies require an emphasis on critical analysis of
   both print and non-print texts. Candidates for Single Subject Teaching
   Credentials in English must be knowledgeable in theories of literature,
   language and linguistics, rhetoric and composition, and communication
   studies. Candidates must be able to read and write well for a variety
   of purposes and communicate effectively within a variety of rhetorical
   contexts. In addition, candidates must have experience in theater arts,
   public speaking, journalism, textual analysis of nonfiction and
   electronic media, and production of technologically enhanced documents.
   This broad scope of background and skills ensures a greater degree of
   success in English/Language Arts classrooms for California's public
   school children. Domain 1. Literature and Textual Analysis The
   candidate's preparation should include breadth of knowledge in
   literature, literary analysis, non-literary text analysis, literary
   criticism and theory. Literary analysis presumes in-depth exploration
   of the relationship between form and content. The curriculum should
   embrace representative selections from different literary traditions
   and major works from diverse cultures. Advanced study of multicultural
   writers is also fundamental preparation for teaching these works.
   Shakespeare remains integral to the secondary school curriculum;
   advanced study of his work is, therefore, essential to future secondary
   teachers. Candidates must be enthusiastic readers and writers, who know
   and apply effective reading strategies and compose thoughtful,
   well-crafted responses to literary and non-literary texts. Candidates
   will be able to: 1.1 Literary Analysis a. Recognize, compare, and
   evaluate different literary traditions to include: ! American
   (inclusive of cultural pluralism) ! British (inclusive of cultural
   pluralism) ! World literature and literature in translation (inclusive
   of cross-cultural literature) ! Mythology and oral tradition b. Trace
   development of major literary movements in historical periods (e.g.,
   Homeric Greece, medieval, neoclassic, romantic, modern) c. Identify and
   analyze major western and non-western works in recent and emerging
   literary movements (e.g., Post-modernism, Harlem Renaissance, Magical
   Realism) English 1 d. Describe the salient features of adolescent/Young
   Adult literature in relation to representative works e. Analyze and
   interpret major works by representative writers in historical,
   aesthetic, political, and philosophical contexts 1.2 Literary Elements
   a. Distinguish salient features of genres (e.g., short stories,
   non-fiction, drama, poetry, novel) b. Define and analyze basic elements
   of literature (e.g., plot, setting, character, point of view, theme,
   narrative structure, figurative language, tone, diction, style) c.
   Articulate the relationship between the expressed purposes and the
   characteristics of different forms of dramatic literature (e.g.,
   comedy, tragedy, drama, dramatic monologue) d. Develop critical
   thinking and analytic skill through close reading of texts 1.3 Analysis
   of Non-Literary Texts a. Compare various features of non-literary print
   and visual media (e.g., film, television, internet) b. Evaluate
   structure and content of a variety of texts (e.g., historical,
   workplace, technical, electronic, consumer documents, advertising,
   government documents, political material) c. Interpret individual works
   in their cultural, social, and political contexts 1.4 Literary
   Criticism and Theory a. Research and apply criticism of major texts and
   authors using print and/or electronic resources b. Distinguish among
   current literary theories c. Research and apply various approaches to
   interpreting literature (e.g., aesthetic, historical, political,
   philosophical) d. Compare common contexts of literary and non-literary
   texts e. Identify the significant social and cultural processes by
   which a canon is formed Domain 2. Language, Linguistics, and Literacy
   Many California students, coming from a variety of linguistic and
   sociocultural backgrounds, face specific challenges in mastering the
   English language. The diversity of this population requires the
   candidate to understand the principles of language acquisition and
   development. Candidates must become knowledgeable about the nature of
   human language, language variation, and historical and cultural
   perspectives on the development of English. In addition, candidates
   must acquire a complex understanding of the development of English
   literacy among both native and non-native speakers. Candidates will be
   able to: 2.1 Nature of Human Language and Communication a. Recognize
   the nature of human language, differences among languages, and the
   universality of linguistic structures English 2 b. Describe ways that
   language has been examined (e.g., descriptive and prescriptive
   approaches) 2.2 Language Structures a. Demonstrate knowledge of word
   analysis, including sound patterns (phonology) and inflection,
   derivation, compounding, roots and affixes (morphology) b. Demonstrate
   knowledge of sentence structures (syntax), word and sentence meanings
   (semantics), and language function in communicative context
   (pragmatics) c. Explain the nature of variations across time, locale,
   and communities inherent in human language structures 2.3 Acquisition
   and Development of Language and Literacy a. Explain the influences of
   cognitive factors on language acquisition and development (e.g.,
   comprehension of input, imitation, hypothesis formation, interaction,
   innate capacity) b. Analyze the influences of affective, sociocultural,
   and political factors on language and literacy development for first
   and second language and second dialect speakers c. Explain the
   influence of a first language/dialect on second language/dialect
   development d. Describe current theories of the development of written
   language for first and second-language learners e. Describe methods and
   techniques for developing academic literacy (e.g., tapping prior
   knowledge through semantic mapping, word analogies, cohesion analysis)
   2.4 Literacy studies a. Recognize the written and oral conventions of
   Standard English, and analyze the social implications of mastering them
   b. Describe and explain cognitive elements of reading and writing
   processes (e.g., decoding and encoding, construction of meaning,
   recognizing and using text conventions of different genres) c. Explain
   metacognitive strategies for making sense of text (e.g., pre-reading
   activities, predicting, questioning, word analysis, concept formation)
   d. Recognize the ways various social, cultural, economic, and political
   factors affect definitions and uses of literacy 2.5 Historical and
   Cultural Perspectives on American English a. Identify the position of
   English in the Indo-European family of languages b. Use appropriate
   print and electronic sources to research etymologies, and recognize
   changes in word meaning and pronunciation c. Trace the historical
   development of conventions of English orthography d. Evaluate the
   influence of cultural and social factors on variation and invention
   versus conservation of the forms of American English English 3 2.6
   Grammatical Structures of English a. Identify methods of sentence
   construction (e.g., sentence combining with coordinators and
   subordinators; sentence embedding and expanding with clausal and
   phrasal modifiers) b. Analyze parts of speech and their distinctive
   structures and functions (e.g., noun phrases including count and
   noncount nouns and the determiner system; prepositions, adjectives, and
   adverbs; word transformations) c. Describe the forms and functions of
   the English verb system (e.g., modals, verb complements, verbal
   phrases) Domain 3. Composition and Rhetoric Candidates face dynamic
   challenges in the domains of oral and written communication. They must
   make appropriate use of current text-production technologies,
   understand and use both individual and collaborative composing
   processes (such as those currently used in business and technical
   contexts), and develop sensitivity to patterns of communication used by
   different social and cultural groups. Candidates are competent writers
   and speakers who are able to communicate appropriately in various
   rhetorical contexts, using effective text structures, word choice,
   sentence options, standard usage conventions, and advanced research
   methods as needed. The subject matter preparation program provides
   opportunities for candidates to develop skills and confidence in public
   speaking. Candidates will be able to: 3.1 Written Composing Processes
   (Individual and Collaborative) a. Reflect on and describe their own
   writing processes b. Investigate and apply alternative methods of
   prewriting, drafting, responding, revising, editing, and evaluating c.
   Employ such strategies as graphic organizers, outlines, notes, charts,
   summaries, or précis to clarify and record meaning d. Integrate a
   variety of software applications (e.g., databases, graphics,
   spreadsheets) to produce print documents and multi-media presentations
   e. Identify and explain theories of writing processes f. Identify and
   apply theories of collaborative composing processes (e.g., division of
   labor, integrative, management, use of conflict) 3.2 Rhetorical
   Features of Literary and Non-Literary, Oral and Written Texts a.
   Recognize and use a variety of writing applications (e.g., short story,
   biographical, autobiographical, expository, persuasive, business and
   technical documents, historical investigation) b. Demonstrate awareness
   of audience, purpose, and context c. Recognize and use various text
   structures (e.g., narrative and non-narrative organizational patterns)
   d. Apply a variety of methods to develop ideas within an essay (e.g.,
   analogy, cause and effect, compare and contrast, definition,
   illustration, description, hypothesis) e. Apply critical thinking
   strategies to evaluate methods of persuasion, including but not limited
   to: ! Types of appeal (e.g., appeal to reason, emotion, morality)
   English 4 ! Types of persuasive speech (e.g., propositions of fact,
   value, problem, policy) ! Logical fallacies (e.g., bandwagon, red
   herring, glittering generalities, ad hominem) ! Advertising techniques
   (e.g., Maslow's hierarchy of needs) ! Logical argument (e.g.,
   inductive/deductive reasoning, syllogisms, analogies) ! Classical
   argument (e.g., claim, qualifiers, rules of evidence, warrant) 3.3
   Rhetorical Effects of Grammatical Elements a. Employ precise and
   extensive vocabulary and effective diction to control voice, style, and
   tone b. Use clause joining techniques (e.g., coordinators,
   subordinators, punctuation) to express logical connections between
   ideas c. Identify and use clausal and phrasal modifiers to control
   flow, pace, and emphasis (e.g., adjective clauses, appositives,
   participles and verbal phrases, absolutes) d. Identify and use devices
   to control focus in sentence and paragraph (e.g., active and passive
   voice, expletives, concrete subjects, transitional phrases) e. Maintain
   coherence through use of cohesive devices (e.g., lexical, semantic,
   anaphoric) 3.4 Conventions of Oral and Written Language a. Apply
   knowledge of linguistic structure to identify and use the conventions
   of Standard Edited English b. Recognize, understand, and use a range of
   conventions in both spoken and written English, including: !
   Conventions of effective sentence structure (e.g., clear pronoun
   reference, parallel structure, appropriate verb tense) ! Preferred
   usage (e.g., verb/subject agreement, pronoun agreement, idioms) !
   Conventions of pronunciation and intonation ! Conventional forms of
   spelling ! Capitalization and punctuation 3.5 Research Strategies a.
   Develop and apply research questions b. Demonstrate methods of inquiry
   and investigation c. Identify and use multiple resources (e.g., oral,
   print, electronic; primary and secondary), and critically evaluate the
   quality of the sources d. Interpret and apply findings e. Use
   professional conventions and ethical standards of citation and
   attribution f. Demonstrate effective presentation methods, including
   multi-media formats Domain 4. Communications: Speech, Media, and
   Creative Performance The Reading/Language Arts Framework for California
   Public Schools (1999) puts consistent emphasis on analysis and
   evaluation of oral and media communication as well as on effective
   public speaking and performance. The candidate must possess the breadth
   of English 5 knowledge needed to integrate journalism, technological
   media, speech, dramatic performance, and creative writing into the
   language arts curriculum, including sensitivity to cultural approaches
   to communication. The subject matter preparation program should include
   opportunities for candidates to obtain knowledge and experience in
   these areas. Candidates can critically evaluate and interpret
   culturally diverse creative ideas and dramatic performance. The
   candidate skillfully applies the artistic and aesthetic tools and
   sensitivities required for creative expression. Candidates will be able
   to: 4.1 Oral Communication Processes a. Identify features of, and
   deliver oral performance in, a variety of forms (e.g., impromptu,
   extemporaneous, persuasive, expository, interpretive, debate) b.
   Demonstrate and evaluate individual performance skills (e.g., diction,
   enunciation, vocal rate, range, pitch, volume, body language, eye
   contact, response to audience) c. Articulate principles of
   speaker/audience interrelationship (e.g., interpersonal communication,
   group dynamics, public address) d. Identify and demonstrate
   collaborative communication skills in a variety of roles (e.g.,
   listening supportively, facilitating, synthesizing, stimulating higher
   level critical thinking through inquiry) 4.2 Media Analysis and
   Journalistic Applications a. Analyze the impact of a variety of media
   forms (e.g., television, advertising, radio, internet, film) on society
   b. Distinguish among current theories of popular culture and media c.
   Recognize and evaluate strategies used by the media to inform,
   persuade, entertain, and transmit culture d. Identify aesthetic effects
   of a media presentation and evaluate the techniques used to create them
   e. Demonstrate effective and creative application of these strategies
   and techniques to prepare presentations using a variety of media forms
   and visual aids 4.3 Dramatic Performance a. Identify and apply
   techniques for creating an ensemble that can work together as an
   effective team (e.g., create rehearsal schedule, set deadlines,
   organize priorities, identify needs and resources in order to produce a
   play) b. Describe and use a range of rehearsal strategies to
   effectively interpret the dramatic text (e.g., memorization techniques,
   improvisation, physical and vocal exercises) c. Apply theatrical
   conventions and vocabulary (e.g., stage directions, theater
   architecture, aspects of technical production) d. Employ basic elements
   of character analysis and approaches to acting, including physical and
   vocal techniques, that reveal character and relationships e.
   Demonstrate basic knowledge of the language of visual composition and
   principles of theatrical design (e.g., set, costume, lighting, sound,
   props) f. Apply fundamentals of stage direction, including
   conceptualization, blocking (movement patterns), tempo, and dramatic
   arc English 6 g. Demonstrate facility in a variety of oral performance
   traditions, (e.g., storytelling, epic poetry, recitation) h. Identify
   and compare specific production styles and forms of theatre (e.g.,
   classical, contemporary, musical, realistic, non-realistic plays) 4.4
   Creative Writing a. Demonstrate facility in creative composition in a
   variety of genres (e.g., poetry, stories, plays, film) b. Understand
   and apply processes and techniques that enhance the impact of the
   creative writing product (e.g., workshopping, readings, recasting
   genre, voice, perspective) c. Demonstrate skill in composing creative
   and aesthetically compelling responses to literature d. Explain and
   apply the conventions of collaborative writing and evaluation e.
   Explain the forms for composing and evaluating metacommentaries on the
   creative process English 7
