http://www.ta.doc.gov/PRel/pr011101.htm

      [REDBAR]

   For Immediate Release
   Thursday, November 1, 2001
                             Contacts: Jim Dyke, Office of the Secretary
                                       Telephone: 202 482-4883
                                       Email: Jdyke@doc.gov, or
                                       Marjorie Weisskohl,
                                       Technology Administration
                                       Telephone: 202 482-0149
                                       Email: Mweisskohl@ta.doc.gov
      [REDBAR]

      GOVERNMENT AND BUSINESS ANNOUNCE JOINT EFFORT TO ASSIST NYC BUSINESSES

       Commerce Secretary Praises Effort to Provide Reduced-Cost IT Services

      The Commerce Department, in conjunction with Information Technology
      (IT) industry leaders and a coalition of New York City, state and
      business executives, today unveiled NY IT Assistance
      (http://www.NYITassist.com). This Web site provides a list of IT
      services and component suppliers to small and medium sized businesses
      in New York that were adversely affected by the terrorist attacks of
      September 11th.

      Commerce Secretary Don Evans hailed the cooperative effort, emphasizing
      that "this partnership between industry and government illustrates the
      kind of hands-on immediate assistance we can provide when we work
      together."

      "I am especially thankful for the IT businesses who have offered price
      reductions or at-cost services to help these small and medium size
      businesses get back up and running, continued Evans.

      NY IT Assistance is part of a larger effort to provide rebuilding
      resources to impacted businesses. This initiative, known as ReSTART
      Central (http://www.RESTARTcentral.com) is delivering broad recovery
      assistance through a coalition of the New York City Mayor's Office, the
      Empire State Development Corporation, and the New York City Partnership
      and Chamber of Commerce.

      Knowing that New York companies, particularly the smaller ones, would
      face tremendous challenges in locating and ordering necessary IT
      products and services quickly and inexpensively, Intel Corporation
      championed an industry response to help the affected businesses. Within
      days a coalition was formed to produce a web-based clearinghouse and
      design a registry for suppliers to list available goods and services.
      The Department of Commerces Technology Administration (TA) joined the
      effort by establishing a fellowship agreement with Intel to increase
      public awareness of the NY IT Assistance resource.

                                     - more -

      The site now contains a list of New York area IT services and
      components suppliers that are committed to helping business return to
      business as quickly as possible. A hotline also is being established to
      provide assistance to companies that do not have access to the Internet
   (1-877-727-7567).

   In addition to Intel, some of the other industry leaders offering
   assistance at NY IT Assistance include Accenture, AOL, IBM, Intel and
   Siemens. More assistance is still needed. Suppliers are invited to
   visit the website to list the IT services and resources available.
