http://www.tfhrc.gov/site/active.htm

                                  Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
   Menu.
   menu bar.

     [EMBED]

     TRANSPORTATION POOL FUND PROGRAM

     List of Pooled Fund Studies | Details of Pooled Fund Studies

     Introduction
     When significant or widespread interest is shown in solving
     transportation-related problems, research, planning, and technology
     transfer activities may be jointly funded by several federal, state,
     regional, and local transportation agencies, academic institutions,
     foundations, or private firms as a pooled fund study.

     To qualify as a pooled fund study, more than one state
     transportation agency, federal agency, other agency such as a
     municipality or metropolitan planning organization,
     college/university or a private company must find the subject
     important enough to commit funds or other resources to conduct the
     research, planning, and technology transfer activity. If a subject
     has been studied previously, the new study should provide new
     information that will complement or advance previous investigations
     of the subject matter.

     A federal, state, regional, or local transportation agency may
     initiate pooled fund studies. Private companies, foundations, and
     colleges/universities may partner with any or all of the sponsoring
     agencies to conduct pooled fund projects.

     Reengineering of Program
     FHWA recently reengineered the pooled fund program to increase its
     already recognized value as part of the national Research and
     Technology Program. Of particular note are three changes:
     * eliminating the "national" and "regional" labels;
     * instituting an option for States to use the Transportation Research
       Board or the FHWA to administer individual studies; and
     * establishing a web site for soliciting, monitoring, and reporting
       on progress and results of studies.

     The change in the two project labels, national and regional was made
     because the labels only made a distinction about who led a
     project--FHWA or a State, respectively. For clarity, we now refer to
     projects as "FHWA-led" or "State-led." The first two changes have
     occurred. The last, the web site, is being developed in conjunction
     with NCHRP Project 20-39(2), "Improved Transportation
     Research-In-Progress Data System," and is anticipated to be launched
     in fall 2002. Review the full text of the Transportation Pooled Fund
     Program procedures Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader. (PDF - 55 KB).

     Project Numbers
     Historically, pooled fund studies have been numbered either
     SPR-2(###) for the FHWA-led (national) studies and SPR-3(###) for
     the State-led (regional) studies. Many projects using these numbers
     are still active. With the reengineering of the program, however, a
     new numbering series has been established, TPF-5(###), encompassing
     both FHWA- and State-led studies.

     Funding Report
     Funds obligated by States participating in pooled fund studies are
     recorded in the FHWA's Fiscal Management Information System (FMIS)
     under the individual Transportation Pooled Fund Program study
     numbers. A updated report downloaded from FMIS with this information
     will be posted periodically for States to review their contributions
     to individual pooled fund studies. Funding Report - January 2, 2002
     (HTML) Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader. (PDF version - 158 KB).
     [new.gif]

     Contacts
     William Zaccagnino is the FHWA contact for questions regarding
     research pooled fund studies. He can be reached at (202) 493-3183 or
     william.zaccagnino@fhwa.dot.gov by email. Tony Solury is the FHWA
     contact for questions about planning pooled fund studies; he can be
     reached at (202) 366-5003 or tony.solury@fhwa.dot.gov.

     Lists of Pooled Fund Studies

     Details of Individual Pooled Fund Studies
     TPF-5 (032) to TPF-5 (001)
     SPR-2 (800) to SPR-2 (200)
     SPR-2 (199) to SPR-2 (175)
     SPR-2 (174) to SPR-2 (126)
     SPR-3 (104) to SPR-3 (001)
     ..................................



   Shortcuts

   Funding Report - January 2, 2002 (HTML) Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader.
   (PDF version - 158 KB). [new.gif]

   List of Pooled Fund Studies

   Details of Individual Pooled Fund Studies:
   TPF-5 (032) to TPF-5 (001)
   SPR-2 (800) to SPR-2 (200)
   SPR-2 (199) to SPR-2 (175)
   SPR-2 (174) to SPR-2 (126)
   SPR-3 (104) to SPR-3 (001)

   Contacts

      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map |Search | Privacy
                              Notice | Feedback
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                    http://www.tfhrc.gov/site/active.htm
