http://core.nasa.gov/order.html

   About CORE
   home search the catalog about core how to order online resources
        How to Order
        Order Form Click here to go directly to the order form, or you can read
   the information b elow for more detailed instructions. Or, if you
   prefer, you can order a printed version of our catalog.

   How to Order
   The materials listed in this catalog are distributed by NASA's Central
   Operation of Resources for Educators (CORE). Use the convenient order
   form on this website, or send a purchase o rder to:

   NASA CORE
   Lorain County Joint Vocational School
   15181 Route 58 South
   Oberlin, OH 44074
   Toll Free Ordering Line: 866-776-CORE
   Toll Free FAX Line: 866-775-1460

   E-mail: nasaco@leeca.org
   World Wide Web: http://core.nasa.gov/

   Please help us fill your order promptly and accurately by providing the
   title, format, and item number for each selection. If paying cash,
   please submit payment with your order. Make checks payable to Lorain
   County JVS-NASA CORE. If you prefer to be bille d, include an official
   purchase order with your request. VISA and MasterCard are also
   accepted. Prices and shipping charges are subject to change without
   notice. Special handling or additional shipping charges are to be paid
   by the user.

   Delivery Time
   Delivery for material is normally made in 4 weeks after receipt of your
   order. Expedited orders are available by paying additional charges and
   contacting the NASA CORE office.

   International Orders
   International orders are subject to additional shipping and customs
   charges. Please contact the NASA CORE office regarding these charges.
   Advance payment in U.S. currency is required on all international
   orders. Shipping charges must be included in the ad vance payment.

   Special Note
   Space technology changes at a rapid pace. The programs in this catalog
   were current and accurate at the time they were made; later events,
   however, may have caused some parts to become outdated. The information
   remains a part of the history of the space p rogram and is available to
   interested viewers in its present form.

   Preview Sites
   NASA's Educator Resource Centers function as an information network
   serving educators nationwide. These centers are located at each of the
   NASA Field Centers, selected museums, and universities throughout the
   United States. Educators can preview audiovisu al materials at these
   centers prior to placing orders through CORE. Click here for a complete
   listing of the NASA Ed ucator Resource Centers.

   No Return Policy
   CORE regrets that it cannot accept the return of audiovisual materials
   unless they are defective or were shipped in error. CORE staff members
   are available to answer questions about materials, prior to your
   purchase, to help you make an informed decision. Damaged or defective
   products must be returned to CORE within 21 days from the date of
   shipment.

   Special Formats
   Special orders for broadcast quality formats (Betacam, SVHS, Umatic)
   will be accepted. Contact the NASA CORE office for pricing information.

      NASA CORE is a service of the Education Division of the National
   Aeronautics and Space Administration and Lorain County Joint Vocational
            School, 15181 Rout e 58 South, Oberlin, Ohio, 44074.
