http://www.csm.ca.gov/history.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CSM Home Page

                          About CSM
                            CSM History
                            CSM Members

                          What's New
                            Current Hearing
                            For Public Comment
                            Pre-Hearing
                            Rulemaking
                            Special Notices
                           Hearing Transcripts
                           Special Education
                           Hearing/Minutes

                          California Law
                           California Constitution
                           Government Code
                           Regulations

                          Legislation
                           Claims Bill
                           Other Bills

                          Reports to Legislature
                           Approved Mandates
                           Denied Mandates
                           Related Links



   Commission on State Mandates



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   CSM History

   The concept of state reimbursement to local agencies and school
   districts for state mandated activities originated with the Property
   Tax Relief Act of 1972 (Senate Bill 90, Chapter 1406, Statutes of
   1972), known as SB 90. The primary purpose of the Act was to limit the
   ability of local agencies and school districts to levy taxes. To offset
   these limitations, the Legislature declared its intent to reimburse
   local agencies and school districts for the costs of new programs or
   increased levels of service mandated by state government. The
   Legislature authorized the State Board of Control to hear and decide
   upon claims requesting reimbursement for costs mandated by the state.

   In 1979, voters approved Proposition 4, which added article XIII B to
   the California Constitution and superseded the SB 90 legislation.
   Article XIII B imposed appropriation limits on the tax proceeds of both
   state and local governments. Section 6 of article XIII B requires that
   whenever the Legislature or any state agency mandates a new program or
   higher level of service on local government, the state must provide a
   subvention of funds to reimburse the associated costs, with certain
   exceptions.

   To implement section 6 of article XIII B, the Legislature enacted
   Government Code section 17500 under Chapter 1459, Statutes of 1984. On
   January 1, 1985, the Commission was created to succeed the State Board
   of Control. The Commission is a quasi-judicial body whose primary
   responsibility is to hear and decide test claims that allege that the
   Legislature or a state agency imposed a reimbursable state mandate
   program upon local government. Additionally, the Commission hears and
   decides claims alleging that the State Controller's Office has
   incorrectly reduced payments to a local agency or school district.

   In 1993, SB 1033 imposed a new duty upon the Commission to review
   county applications for a finding of significant financial distress.
   The Commission must complete its review of the application, conduct a
   quasi-legislative hearing, and determine if the applicant county is
   facing such distress within a statutory time frame. An affirmative
   finding by the Commission permits the county to ultimately decide
   whether to reduce general assistance benefits. In 1995, additional
   statutory changes resulting from Senate Bill 11 set timelines for the
   Commission to complete all actions on a test claim. These timelines
   were revised by Assembly Bill 1963, an urgency bill effective September
   22, 1998.

   Originally, the Commission was composed of five members: the State
   Controller, State Treasurer, Director of the Department of Finance,
   Director of the Office of Planning and Research, and a public member
   with experience in public finance. Effective January 1, 1997, two
   additional public members were added to the Commission - a school board
   member and a county board of supervisors member - raising membership to
   its current number of seven. Public members are appointed by the
   Governor and approved by the Senate.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
