http://www.sc.doe.gov/feature_articles_2001/may/program_summaries/bes2.PDF

   Office of Science Basic Energy Sciences "Serving the Present, Shaping
   the Future" http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/bes/bes.html The Basic
   Energy Sciences (BES) Program supports fundamental research in
   materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and
   molecular biosciences. In FY 2000, the Program funded research in more
   than 150 academic institutions located in 48 states and in 13 DOE
   laboratories located in 9 states. The BES Program also supports
   world-class scientific user facilities, including four synchrotron
   radiation light sources, three neutron scattering facilities, and four
   electron-beam micro characterization centers. Annually, 8,000
   researchers from academia, industry, and federal laboratories perform
   experiments at these facilities. Under construction is the Spallation
   Neutron Source (SNS), a $1.4 billion next- generation neutron
   scattering facility. The Opportunity: In the past century, the triumphs
   of science, which improved our lives immeasurably, were elegant and
   simple solutions to complex problems that had puzzled scientists for
   millennia. We discovered and characterized the atomic building blocks
   of matter, the elementary excitations in materials, and the
   fundamentals of chemical reactivity. We used this knowledge to design,
   synthesize, and characterize simple molecules and to use them as
   components of, for example, alloys, ceramics, and catalysts. The next
   millennium leads us into a more complex world of research with
   unprecedented opportunities. Here, large complicated structures can be
   designed atom by atom for desired characteristics. Here, also, chemical
   reactivity can be predicted and controlled. New tools, new
   understanding, and a developing convergence of the BES-supported
   disciplines will allow us to ask and solve questions that were
   previously the stuff of science fiction. The Challenge: Science at the
   nanoscale. Can we achieve a fundamental understanding of nanoscale
   assemblies of materials  structures 1000 times smaller than a human
   hair? At the nanoscale, materials have properties distinctly different
   from those of the bulk, and lessons learned from 20th century studies
   do not apply. Materials by design. Can we design materials having
   predictable and yet, often unusual properties? This will require
   "bottoms-up" atomic and molecular design, the use of nanostructured
   materials, novel routes for materials synthesis and processing, and
   parallel fabrication approaches. Functional molecular systems. Can we
   design and construct multi component molecular devices and machines
   having desired properties  optical, mechanical, catalytic, electrical,
   tribological? These might form the basis of systems such as
   nanometer-scale chemical factories, molecular pumps, sensors, and
   self-assembling electronic/photonic devices. Chemical reactivity. Can
   we predict and control chemical reactivity  the making and breaking of
   chemical bonds to fabricate desired products while minimizing or
   eliminating unwanted products? The convergence of chemical catalysis
   and biological catalysis coupled April 2001 Continued Basic Energy
   Sciences http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/bes/bes.html with new, exotic
   techniques, such as laser-based control, may make it possible to
   control reactivity with a precision found only in nature and to fashion
   novel products not seen in nature. The molecular foundations of natural
   processes. Can we harness, control, or mimic the exquisite complexity
   of natural processes? Living organisms represent the most sophisticated
   use of the elements to create materials and functional complexes
   through chemical processing. Nature's achievements allow us to set
   goals for the development of materials and systems with the enhanced
   properties, including the ability to self-assemble, self-repair, sense,
   respond, and evolve. Scaling in space and time. Can we develop the
   tools to visualize and predict phenomena spanning the length scales and
   time scales of natural phenomena? The challenges are formidable.
   Spatial scaling involves lengths ranging from that of the atom, to
   thousands of atoms, to the bulk phase, and, finally, to the macroscale.
   Temporal scaling involves times ranging from those of chemical
   reactions (femtoseconds) to geologic times (millennia). FY 2002
   Investment Plan: Artist's concept of the SNS overlaid on the
   construction site Artist's concept of the SNS overlaid on the
   construction site The BES Program will strengthen core competencies to
   address outstanding scientific challenges. In the areas of nanoscale
   science, engineering, and technology research, the BES Program will
   continue the research directions initiated in FY 2001 and explore
   concepts and designs for Nanoscale Science Research Centers, which will
   provide unique, state-of-the-art nanofabrication and characterization
   facilities to the scientific community. Also of high priority is the
   continuation of the construction of the SNS to provide the
   next-generation, Chestnut Ridge short-pulse spallation neutron source
   for Oak Ridge National Laboratory neutron scattering. The Benefits:
   Research in materials sciences and engineering leads to the development
   of materials that improve the efficiency, economy, environmental
   acceptability, and safety in energy generation, conversion,
   transmission, and use. Research in chemistry leads to the development
   of advances such as efficient combustion systems with reduced emissions
   of pollutants; new solar photo conversion processes; improved catalysts
   for the production of fuels and chemicals; and better separations and
   analytical methods for applications in energy processes, environmental
   remediation, and waste management. Research in geosciences contributes
   to the solution of problems in multiple DOE mission areas, including
   reactive fluid flow studies to understand contaminant remediation and
   seismic imaging for reservoir definition. Finally, research in the
   molecular and biochemical nature of plant growth aids the development
   of renewable biomass resources.
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/bes/bes.html April 2001
