http://ees-www.lanl.gov/pdfs/ymp0501.pdf

   Working miles and miles undergroundÖ By EES-7 staff Field studies have
   played a major role in the Yucca Mountain Project site characterization
   since the 1970s. They have ranged from the initial surface-based
   borehole studies beginning in the 1970s; to tests being conducted in
   the ESF, an elaborate underground facility built at the site in the
   late 1990s; to various remote sites around the Yucca Mountain region,
   which are continuing today. To build over 6 and a half miles of tunnel
   beneath the remote desert of Southern Nevada took massive, specialized
   equipment and the trained, experienced staff of EES-7 to ensure that
   the facility being designed, constructed and operated met the precise
   needs of a large multi-disciplined scientific community. The
   Exploratory Studies Facility In the late 1980ís and early 1990ís, the
   YMP began planning to cite an underground test facility, which would be
   used to conduct experiments to further characterize the unsaturated
   zone (UZ) above and within the potential repository horizon. The
   facility was termed the Exploratory Studies Facility (ESF). Several
   design alternatives were evaluated, including many different shaft and
   ramp-type tunnels; the design selected was the ramp type consisting of
   a north ramp, main drift, and south ramp. In Figure 2 we see the ramps
   of the ESF, bordered by the potential repository. ESF construction
   began in 1994 and was completed in 1997; the 5-mile loop was excavated
   using a 25-foot- diameter tunnel-boring machine (TBM). In Figure 3 we
   see the cutter head of the TBM piercing through the rock after
   completing the excavation of the ESF. The TBM tunneled through rocks of
   the Tiva Canyon, paintbrush Nonwelded (PTn), and upper parts of the
   Topopah Spring Formations. EES-7 staff worked on and around the TBM
   during all shifts to ensure that construction activities and use of
   construction materials such as grout and water did not interfere with
   potential testing locations. The staff also would help collect rock
   samples and provide other testing needs such as holes used for
   instrumentation installation from the back platforms of the TBM.
   Numerous research activities have been conducted in the ESF. They
   include geologic mapping, construction monitoring, and systematic
   sampling and characterization of the hydrologic,
   mineralogic-petrologic, thermal- mechanical, and geochemical properties
   of the stratigraphic units in the UZ. A series of alcoves and niches
   were excavated in the ESF so more specific experiments to further
   characterize hydrologic processes and thermally coupled processes could
   be conducted. The Cross Drift One of the limitations of the ESF is that
   it does not expose the majority of the potential repository horizon
   rocks (most of the Topopah Spring Lower Lithophysal unit and the entire
   Topopah Spring Lower Nonlithophysal unit). Based on these limitations
   and numerous interactions with external oversight bodies (particularly
   the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board), the YMP initiated a planning
   effort, termed the Enhanced Characterization of the Repository Block
   (ECRB), in 1997. This effort was aimed to plan a way to further
   characterize the potential repository block. The result of this effort
   was the construction of an additional tunnel (termed the Cross Drift)
   across the potential repository block to expose the potential
   repository horizon units and the Solitario Canyon Fault Zone. The Cross
   Drift is shown in Figure 2. Construction of the Cross Drift started in
   late 1997 and was completed in October 1998. A 16.5-foot- diameter TBM
   was used this time for the excavation. In Figure 4 we see the 16.5-foot
   diameter TBM being moved into position to begin excavating the Cross
   Drift. As before, EES-7 staff on and behind the machine to ensure test
   criteria was being met. Initial activities in the Cross Drift included
   geologic mapping, systematic sampling and analyzing hydrologic and
   geochemical properties, and hydrologic monitoring. As in the ESF, a
   series of testing alcoves and niches are being developed for the Cross
   Drift over the next couple years. These studies will address flow,
   transport, and seepage properties. Thermally coupled processes within
   the potential repository horizon rocks and the hydrologic properties of
   the Solitario Canyon Fault Zone will be studied. EES-7 (Geotechnical
   Engineering and Research) The mission objectives of EES-7 (Geotechnical
   Engineering and Research) will continue to be providing a sole-source,
   comprehensive resource for concept refinement, prediction, and
   ultimately, detailed planning and implementation of underground and
   surface geotechnical testing and system installations. These systems
   will be on the YMP, as the case with the ESF and Cross Drift, as well
   as other underground and surface-based testing installation on the
   Nevada Test Site and potentially Los Alamos.
