http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/photos/gallery.html

   Jump to Page Content

   NOAA OR&R Home / Image Gallery

   Image Gallery

   Home Page

   Site Index

   About Us

   Oil Spill Aids

   Chemical Aids

   Coastal Chemicals

   For Kids

   Image Gallery

   Available Products

   Site Search

   Here are guided tours and photos taken by NOAA OR&R scientists, spill
   response experts, and colleagues.

Spill Response Tours and Slideshows


   Major Oil Spills
   Photographs of some of the world's worst oil spills.
   Exxon Valdez Photos
   Photographs from the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound,
   Alaska.
   Mearns Rock Time Series
   How can you tell that an oiled shoreline has "recovered"? Mearns Rock
   was oiled during the Exxon Valdez spill. Have the plants and animals on
   and around it recovered?
   Dispersants: a Guided Tour
   A primer on a response "countermeasure."

Coastal Chemicals Tours and Slideshows


   Tour of the Christina River Watershed How scientists use GIS systems to
   see possible relationships between things such as contaminant
   concentrations and presence/absence of aquatic species.
   Asarco Site Tour How a new habitat was created as part of a hazardous
   waste site clean-up.
   Strandley-Manning How fish habitat was restored at a Superfund site.

Searchable Photo Collections


   Spill Response Photo Collection
   Searchable collection of photos related to oil spills, chemical
   accidents, and other hazardous materials topics.
   Coastal Chemicals Photo Collection
   Searchable collection of photos related to cleanup and restoration of
   coastal ecosystems contaminated by toxic chemicals.

Using These Photos

   With just a few exceptions, the photos on this website are considered
   public information: you are free to copy and use them. The exceptions
   are a few photos that are credited to other organizations. We request
   that you credit us when you use our photos in your publications (we're
   the Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service,
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration).

Also at This Web Site

   Guided Tours View more photographs and learn how NOAA OR&R scientists
   and other experts respond to oil spills and chemical accidents, and
   work to clean up hazardous waste sites.
   Revised: September 26, 2001
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
