http://cox.house.gov/press/releases/2001/1101energyandwater.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.

     Environmental Protection for Orange County on its Way to President
                          Bush, Rep. Cox Announces

      Legislation Passes House 399-29; Fast Senate Approval Anticipated

       WASHINGTON (Thursday, November 1, 2001)--Ten Orange County
   environmental projects sought by House Policy Chairman Christopher Cox
   will land on President Bush’s desk in the next few days, Rep. Cox
   announced.

       The House gave overwhelming final approval to a House-Senate
   compromise of the legislation containing the environmental provisions,
   the Energy and Water Appropriations Act.  It is expected to earn
   similar support in the Senate and become the third of 13 annual
   appropriations bills enacted into law for fiscal year 2002.

       “This funding is critical to our environment in Orange County,”
   Rep. Cox said. “I am proud to see our priorities recognized by the
   Administration and my colleagues in the Congress.”

       The initiatives include:

Newport Bay

   ·        Upper Newport Bay Restoration Project.  This project will
   protect the Bay’s unique estuarine environment sheltering eight species
   of endangered birds and 78 species of fish.

   ·        Dredging Disposal Monitoring Studies.  The monitoring studies
   will help secure a permanent designation of the LA-3 Ocean Disposal
   site, a critical element of the Newport Bay restoration efforts.

   ·        Upper Newport Bay Protection Feasibility Study.  This study
   will examine ways to reduce silt and other urban runoff from the San
   Diego Creek into Upper Newport Bay.

   ·        Lower Newport Bay Upgrade.  This project will include
   necessary dredging in areas that have recently experienced small craft
   groundings.

Orange County Groundwater Replenishment

   ·        Ground Water Replenishment System.  Upon completion by the
   U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, this project will provide 78,000 acre-feet
   of new clean drinking water each year, enough for 156,000 families.

Santa Ana River

   ·        Orange County Flood Control.  With 90 percent of the lower
   Santa Ana River project complete, this year’s funding will allow the
   Corps to continue construction on raising the Prado Dam.

Wetlands and Shoreline Protection

   ·        Orange County Beach Erosion and Shoreline Protection Studies.
   The Corps of Engineers will conduct a beach erosion and shoreline
   protection reconnaissance study of the Orange County coastline (as
   authorized in Section 110 of the River and Harbor Act of 1962)

   ·        Aliso Creek Watershed Feasibility Study.  This project is a
   study of Aliso Creek to be conducted by the Corps of Engineers, with
   Orange County as the local sponsor.

   ·        Orange County Special Area Management Plan (SAMP).  This
   project will assess the wetland resources in Orange County.

   ·        Surfside-Sunset Beach Protection.  This project protects
   Orange County’s beaches from the devastating effects of beach erosion.

                                   #  #  #
