http://www.hud.gov/buying/

   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development: Buying
   [Display the text version of this page] [Translate this site]
                                                                 [Search/Index]

   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development

   hud news
   news releases
   initiatives
   homes
   buying
   selling
   renting
   homeless
   home improvements
   hud homes
   fha refunds
   foreclosure
   consumer info
   communities
   your community
   volunteering
   organizing
   what works
   economic development
   working with hud
   grants
   programs
   contracts
   work online
   about hud
   hud jobs
   local info
   complaints
   resources
   library
   handbooks/ forms
   common questions
   most requested pages
   tools
   webcasts
   mailing lists
   federal clearinghouses
   contact us
   help

   Home > Buying

   buying a home



    E-mail this to a friend
    Print version
    En español



   --
      helpful tools             --


   -   English/Spanish dictionary
   -   Wish list
   -   Home-shopping check list
   -   How much home can you afford?
   -   HUD homes for sale

   Common questions from first-time homebuyers


   -   Commonly asked questions
   -   100 questions about buying a home
   -   Housing counseling

   Know your rights as a homebuyer

      There are many laws that protect you from scams, unnecessary expenses,
   and discrimination in the process of homebuying. Know your rights!

   -   Fair housing laws
   -   Homebuyer's rights
   -   Borrower's rights

How much mortgage can you afford?

   You can save yourself a lot of wheel-spinning if you take a minute to
   figure out how much mortgage you can afford. Generally, a lender will
   want your monthly mortgage payment to total no more than 29% of your
   monthly gross income (that's your monthly income before taxes and other
   paycheck deductions are taken out.) You also need to consider current
   loan interest rates. The lower the interest rate, the more expensive
   the home you'll be able to afford. Follow our tips and use these simple
   calculators to see how much you can afford in a mortgage payment.

   -   How much home can you afford?
   -   Reverse mortgage calculator
   -   Buy vs. Rent

Create your "wishlist"

   Make your wish list. Focus on the features you want in a home: 2
   bedrooms or 3? 1 bath or 2? Garage or no garage? Knowing what you're
   looking for will help you focus your search. And it will help your real
   estate broker, too.

Your real estate broker

   You'll want to start searching for a broker as soon as you decide to
   buy a home. Talk to several and find someone you think you'll be
   comfortable working closely with. Many of your friends and relatives
   have probably bought and sold their homes through brokers. Ask them who
   they used and what their experiences were. You can find out which
   brokers specialize in the kind of home or the area you want by looking
   in the Yellow Pages or your local newspaper's classified real estate
   ads. Or drive through neighborhoods and note the names of brokers on
   "for sale" signs. When you talk to prospective brokers, ask questions
   about the areas and types of homes in which you're interested. Do they
   seem knowledgeable? Most important, is their personal style a good fit
   with your own?

   -   Choosing your real estate broker

Mortgages and homebuying programs

   Many different kinds of mortgages are available to you. Read about
   them, and make sure you understand the pros and cons of each. Your real
   estate broker can help you. HUD offers some special homebuying
   programs. Also, many local governments offer special homebuying
   programs to help low-income homebuyers. Shop around - you may be
   surprised at all your options!

   -   Mortgage tips
   -      Looking for the best mortgage: shop, compare, negotiate
       -   English
       -   Español
   -   Current mortgage information
   -   Consumer handbook on adjustable rate mortgages
   -   Federal mortgage programs - including HUD's FHA
   -   Buy a home with a low downpayment
   -   Buying a HUD home
   -      HUD's special homebuying programs
       -   Officer Next Door
       -   Teacher Next Door
       -   Homeownership for public housing residents
   -   Local homebuying programs
   -   Lenders who can help you with HUD's FHA mortgages
   -   Condos and developments approved for FHA mortgages
   -   HUD's energy-efficient mortgage
   -   Mortgage glossary

Shopping for a home

   So now you really begin house-hunting. Your real estate broker will be
   able to find listings for you, based on your wishlist. But don't stop
   there! You can do your own looking, and then ask your broker to show
   you the house. Start with the Internet. Pick up real estate flyers at
   local grocery stores and convenience stores. Read the real estate
   sections of your local newspaper. Drive around neighborhoods that
   interest you and write down addresses where there are "for sale" signs.
   Go to open houses. Try everything! And use our convenient home-shopping
   check list to help you compare the houses you see.

   -   Homes for sale
   -   Home-shopping checklist
   -   Maps of the neighborhood
   -   Learn about the neighborhood
   -   Find local childcare
   -   Find local schools

Building a home

   If you want to build a new home, there are other things you need to
   know before you begin. Learn about construction standards and about
   buying land, so you know your rights.

   -   How to buy a new home
   -   Federal construction standards
   -      Do you want to buy land for a home? Know your rights!
       -   About land sales
       -   Questions and answers
       -   Do's and don'ts
       -   Consumer agencies

Manufactured homes

   Manufactured homes can be a great alternative for first-time
   homebuyers. Again, it's good to know how the laws protect you.

   -   Manufactured Home Consumer's Guide
   -   Fact sheet
   -   Consumer publications
   -   Loans
   -   Complaints

Rehab a home

   You may want to consider buying a "fixer-upper." If so, there are
   federal programs that can help you finance your repairs.

   -   Rehabiliation mortgage insurance
   -   Q&A about rehab mortgage insurance
   -   Property improvement loan insurance
   -   Energy-efficient mortgages
   -   HUD approved lenders
   -   HOME program
   -   HOME program local contacts
   -   National Renovation Lenders Association

Home inspections

   When you make an offer on a home, it's a good idea to make your offer
   contingent on a home inspection, conducted by an independent authorized
   inspector. You will have to pay for this inspection yourself, but it
   could keep you from buying a house that will cost you far more in
   repairs, down the road. If you are satisified with the results of the
   inspection, then your offer can proceed. If you aren't,you may want to
   negotiate, asking the seller to pay for certain repairs or asking for a
   lower price.

   -   Consumer home inspection kit

Appraisals

   Your lender will require you to get an appraisal of the house you want
   to buy, to make sure it's worth the money that you're borrowing. You
   may select your own appraiser, or you may ask your real estate broker
   to help you take care of that.

   -   About appraisors and appraisals

Homeowner's insurance

   Lenders require that you have homeowners insurance, to protect both
   your interests and theirs. Like everything else, be sure to shop around
   for insurance that fits your needs.

   -   12 ways to lower your homeowner's insurance costs
   -   Homeowner's insurance

Settlement or closing

   Finally, you've gone through the whole process, and you're ready to go
   to "settlement" or "closing." We know you'll be excited, but be sure to
   read everything you sign! And before you go, read this important
   information about your rights.

   -   Settlement cost and helpful information

Moving

   Looks like you're ready to move. There's a lot to consider as you plan
   your move. The good news is that there's lots of help. Check this out.

   -   Moversnet

Other links


   -   The Energy Star program
   -   Freddie Mac
   -   Fannie Mae
   -   Looking to save money on energy bills? Put energy.gov to work for
       you. Visit www.energy.gov

   Content updated January 28, 2002   Follow this link to  Back to Top
   ----------
   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
   Development
   451 7th Street S.W., Washington, DC 20410
   Telephone: (202) 708-1112   TTY: (202) 708-1455 Home
   | Privacy Statement
