http://www.nist.gov/sc4/www/stepdocs.htm


    The STEP Project
       Before you continue, please read the following copyright
       protection.

       The information generated about a product during its design,
       manufacture, use, maintenance, and disposal is used for many
       purposes during that life cycle. The use may involve many computer
       systems, including some that may be located in different
       organizations. In order to support such uses, organizations need to
       be able to represent their product information in a common
       computer-interpretable form that is required to remain complete and
       consistent when exchanged among different computer systems.
       ISO 10303 is an International Standard for the
       computer-interpretable representation and exchange of product data.
       The objective is to provide a mechanism that is capable of
       describing product data throughout the life cycle of a product,
       independent from any particular system. The nature of this
       description makes it suitable not only for neutral file exchange,
       but also as a basis for implementing and sharing product databases
       and archiving.
       The structure of this International Standard is described in ISO
       10303-1. STEP on a Page is a graphical representation of the STEP
       structure.
       The numbering of the parts of this International Standard reflects
       its structure:
     * - Parts 11 to 13 specify the Description methods,
     * - Parts 21 to 26 specify the Implementation methods,
     * - Parts 31 to 35 specify the Conformance testing methodology and
       framework,
     * - Parts 41 to 49 specify the Integrated generic resources,
     * - Parts 101 to 106 specify the Integrated application resources,
     * - Parts 201 to 233 specify the Application protocols,
     * - Parts 301 to 332 specify the Abstract test suites, and
     * - Parts 501 to 518 specify the Application interpreted constructs.
       The standard development process includes several stages including
       Technical Corrigenda versions issued. Learn more about specific SC4
       milestones. Documents that are at level IS and FDIS are copyrighted
       by ISO and can be purchased from ISO or your National body. Other
       official SC4 documents not listed here are produced by the Working
       Groups. For more information, please contact the ISO TC184/SC4
       Secretariat.

                                  home icon
