http://resources.ca.gov/mary.html


                    Welcome to California California Home

   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
                                    Tree



                      California Resources Agency Home
                                Agency News
                                Departments
                            Boards & Commissions
                               Conservancies
                              Special Programs
                           Reports & Publications


                                Related Links



                         California Resources Agency



   Mary Nichols
   California Resources Agency




   Secretary for Resources
   Governor Gray Davis named Mary D. Nichols Californias eighth Secretary
   for Resources on December 16, 1998. As head of the Resources Agency,
   Secretary Nichols sets policy for 27 departments, commissions, boards
   and conservancies. including the Departments of Conservation, Fish and
   Game, Forestry and Fire Protection, Parks and Recreation, Water
   Resources, and the California Coastal Commission. The Agency is also
   responsible for interpreting the California Environmental Quality Act.

   Secretary Nichols brings to the Davis administration a 30-year legacy
   of public service that has been instrumental in helping forge the
   nation's approach to environmental issues.

   As a member of the Governor Davis' cabinet, Secretary Nichols serves as
   his chief advisor on issues related to the State's natural resources.
   Secretary Nichols played a central role in the acquisition of the
   Headwaters Forest, the nation's largest privately owned reserve of
   old-growth coastal redwood forest. She now oversees the implementation
   of Propositions 12 and 13, the largest bond measures ever passed that
   together provide $4 billion in funding for parks, open space, habitat
   and river parkways.

   Secretary Nichols represented the State in developing CALFED, the joint
   federal-State program that charts a new course for California's water
   resources and the Bay-Delta ecosystem. She now oversees CALFED's
   implementation phase, setting in motion the world's largest
   environmental restoration project.

   A resident of Los Angeles, Secretary Nichols has a special interest in
   urban parks. She is currently overseeing the development of the Joint
   Rivers and Mountains Conservancy, and the Baldwin Hills Conservancy -
   the first State conservancies established entirely within wholly urban
   settings.

   Prior to her present State appointment, Nichols served as the Executive
   Director of Environment Now, a private foundation dedicated to the
   protection of the California environment. She served in the Clinton
   administration as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Assistant
   Administrator for Air and Radiation, and was a senior staff attorney
   and director of the Los Angeles office of the Natural Resources Defense
   Council from 1989 to 1993.

   During her two terms on the California Air Resources Board in Governor
   Edmund G. (Jerry) Brown's administration, California established itself
   as the world leader in air quality regulation ushering in an era of
   innovative control technologies, cleaner motor vehicles and fuels. As a
   result of these efforts at the State and federal level, California's
   air has dramatically improved even while the State's population and
   economy have led the nation. She also served as Governor Brown's
   Secretary for Environmental Affairs, the cabinet-level post that later
   became Secretary of Cal/EPA.

   Ms. Nichols was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota and attended school in
   Ithaca, New York. She received her BA from Cornell University and JD
   from Yale Law School.



                              __________ search
                         (*)  My CA ( )   This Site

                         Administrative Assistant:
                         Nancy Egger
                         916-653-5656

                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Privacy Policy Email
                                  Webmaster
