http://carstad.gsfc.nasa.gov/topics/facilities.html

                               FACILITIES PAGE
   Under Construction



   This page will eventually contain a listing of organizations providing
   facilities for airborne remote sensing



   The following entries have been compiled from the World Wide Web and
   other resources. They have not been reviewed or edited. If they should
   be corrected or modified, please notify the webmaster.

   Mail to CARSTAD : carstad@staac-mail.gsfc.nasa.gov


   The Airborne Instrument Test System, AITS, establishes an
   "acquisition-to-delivery" capability designed to be a remote sensing
   applications development environment. The system comprises a
   multispectral sensor system integrated with a high-performance aircraft
   platform, multimedia decommutation/ground processing station, and
   automated archives. AITS incorporates capabilities to align its
   operation to user application development. The program supports
   development and transfer of technology related to remote sensing to the
   commercial sector. http://www.crsp.ssc.nasa.gov/AITS/AITS.HTM

   Airborne Sensor Facility NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA
   USA. The Airborne Sensor Facility provides remote sensing systems
   development for the Airborne Science Program; calibration and
   validation of the Earth Obeserving System's earth science
   investigations; and system operation, data processing, calibration and
   maintenance of Code Y facility remote sensing insruments.
   http://asapdata.arc.nasa.gov/

   Providing high technology products, engineering and analysis services,
   and customized systems to government and private customers with
   aplications in: Airborne and Spaceborne Systems, Biomedical Imaging
   Systems, Instrumentation and Control Systems, Stabilization / Motion
   Control, Automated Test, Facility Monitoring, Process Control, Remote
   Sensing Systems and Services, Environmental Services. Kestrel's
   flagship products include the AirCam&#153; multispectral imaging
   system, our recently-developed HyperCam&#153; hyperspectral imaging
   system and our Digital Fundus Image and Diagnostic System.
   http://www.kestrelcorp.com/index.html

   The objective of the NERC Airborne Remote Sensing (ARS) Facility of
   NERC Scientific Services (NSS) is to provide the UK environmental
   science community and other potential users with the means to obtain
   remotely-sensed data in support of research and survey programmes. The
   application of such data, on a repetitive basis at almost any desired
   temporal frequency, is increasingly leading to a cost-effective means
   of monitoring the environment - be it terrestrial, freshwater, marine
   or atmospheric. The ARS Facility is a unique service providing
   environmental researchers, engineers and surveyors with synoptic
   analogue and digital imagery of high spatial and spectral resolution.
   Such a comprehensive data service cannot be easily achieved by other
   survey techniques. http://www.nerc.ac.uk/nss/arsf.htm


                              CARSTAD Home Page

              This page was last updated Monday, April 23, 2001
