http://www.inel.gov/major-programs/nationalsecurity.shtml

   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory
   Security/Privacy
   HOME | Site Index | Staff Directory | Jobs | Contact Us
   _______________ [go.gif]


   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory Home Page

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   Click for our plan for the future Click for our mission and vision
   Click to learn more about the INEEL [shim.gif]

   Major Programs at the INEEL
   National Security Programs


   The INEEL is an innovator in science-based and integrated engineering
   systems for national security and intelligence within DOE, other
   government agencies, and industrial partners. It conducts research,
   development, and deployment to improve the security of citizens,
   infrastructures, and nations. The laboratory also conducts analysis,
   and provides intelligence and policy support for national security
   decision-makers. Within the INEEL, the National Security Division is
   responsible for execution of these programs.

   The INEEL's advanced threat mitigation R&D consists of:
     * Integrated threat defense and mitigation programs in chemical
       demilitarization and operations command and control for military
       applications;
     * Currency, explosives, chemical, biological, and other contraband
       materials detection for law enforcement and counter-terrorism;
     * Nuclear-related environmental activities for multilateral and
       international initiatives; and
     * Advanced information management technologies for information,
       security, waste management, scientific simulation, and advanced
       military mission planning.

   The INEEL provides nonproliferation and intelligence R&D to reduce the
   threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their
   delivery systems. Current R&D includes criticality safety, actinide
   solution stabilization, fission studies, and high-level waste studies.

   The INEEL's advanced technology systems R&D consists of:
     * Nonproliferation and intelligence programs based on materials
       development and characterization;
     * Chemical and biological threat detection and analysis;
     * Nuclear material detection;
     * Intelligence tools and analysis;
     * Electrical systems and control infrastructure; and
     * Areas of software engineering.

   With a growing customer need for integration services, the INEEL is
   expanding its R&D support with new concepts in systems integration,
   international chemical and conventional munitions assessment, and first
   responder systems for nuclear, chemical, and biological materials
   counter-terrorism. Five R&D 100 awards over 12 years exemplify external
   recognition of the INEEL's contribution to intelligence and national
   security.
   INEEL's Counter-terrorism R&D

   Recognized as a leader in the development of technologies to combat
   terrorism, the INEEL conducts research and tests integrated systems and
   technologies for federal and regional law enforcement organizations.
   For example, the INEEL leads the application of information
   technologies as part of the CRIMNET in Idaho and the Colorado Justice
   Information Network.

   Law enforcement depends upon information technology to improve
   information sharing across different operating systems and network
   infrastructures. INEEL law enforcement R&D projects include
   applications such as compact standoff detection systems for weapons,
   vehicles, and packages; rapid detection and treatment systems to
   protect air and water supplies; intelligent software to prevent and
   correct damage from system intrusions; and monitoring systems to
   identify deterioration or attacks on critical infrastructure. Other R&D
   for law enforcement counter-terrorism programs include forensic
   science, information forensics and case management, and biosensors.

   The INEEL received the National Institute of Justice Law Enforcement
   Technology Innovation Award for developing practical technologies for
   law enforcement officers.
   Programs

   The INEEL national security military programs include production as
   well as R&D. The INEEL is the sole producer of M1 A1 Abrams tank armor
   packages for the U.S. Army. The Specific Manufacturing Capability's
   modeling and simulation capability and metal fabrication design and
   automation expertise are recognized national assets.

   The INEEL is responsible for the deployment of advanced military
   mission planning systems, and command and control communications
   systems. The laboratory's Advanced Test Reactor supports specialized
   nuclear materials testing for multiple national security customers. The
   INEEL chemical-weapons assessment program leverages the experience and
   expertise of the laboratory's science and technology, and operations
   programs. Funded by DOE national security programs and jointly operated
   by the INEEL and Idaho State University, the Idaho Accelerator Center
   is a scientific facility providing accelerator applications and
   low-power nuclear and optical physics.

   Beginning in FY 2000, the INEEL and Argonne National Laboratory are
   supporting bilateral scientific collaboration with Russia through the
   newly established International Center for Environmental Safety. DOE
   and the Russian Ministry of Atomic Energy formed the center recognizing
   their common security and environmental goals.

   Based on the INEEL's engineering excellence and success adapting
   nonintrusive characterization technologies, the U.S. Army recognized
   the INEEL as its lead laboratory for Nonstockpile Chemical Weapons
   Material mobile assessment systems. The INEEL demilitarization program
   includes multiple projects in mobile and fixed chemical munitions
   assessment systems that ensure U.S. compliance with the Chemical
   Weapons Convention. DOE's national security programs (i.e.,
   Nonproliferation and National Security (NN), Intelligence (IN), and
   Defense Programs (DP)) rely on INEEL expertise in sensor development,
   engineered systems, computer security, software development and
   assessment, and systems modeling.

   The laboratory's advanced technology programs encompass information
   warfare, command and control, computer and network reliability, and
   communications and data protection for DOE, and multiple federal and
   nonfederal customers. The INEEL deploys automated command and control
   systems with advanced cryptography.

   In collaboration with the University of Idaho, the INEEL is designing
   and testing secure network communications with authentication protocols
   utilizing a formal methodology. Through a strategic alliance, the INEEL
   and the University of Idaho are expanding the laboratory's cyber
   security capability in the four areas identified by DOE: information
   assurance, intrusion detection, intrusion protection, and information
   forensics. The INEEL Visualization Team focuses on specialized
   technologies and applications to protect intelligence information
   during network communication.

   Contacts:   Larry Freeman
               208-526-4410
               freele@inel.gov

   Page contact: Kathy Gatens, kzc@inel.gov.

   [pixel.gif] [pixel_blk.gif]
   [pixel.gif] [pixel_grn.gif]
   Updated: Monday, November 12, 2001
   For general inquiries about the INEEL, please call 1-800-708-2680.
   © 2002 Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC. All rights reserved.
   Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC is an EEO/AA employer.
   Feedback
   The INEEL is operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC.
   Click to visit DOE's website.
