http://www.ignet.gov/privacy.html

   [flag.gif] IGnet
              Privacy Statement

    FEEDBACK

    What's New

    The
    Inspectors
    General

    PCIE & ECIE

    Reports &
    Periodicals

    Vacancies

    Related
    Sites

    Site Map

    Search
    IGnet












   [bar.gif]

   Thank you for visiting the IGNet web site and for reviewing our Privacy
   Policy. IGNet serves as a clearing house for OIG related information
   and resources and also hosts some of the OIG web sites. The privacy
   policy below pertains only for www.ignet.gov hosted information.

   Our policy is as follows:

   We collect no information about you, other than information
   automatically collected and stored (see below), when you visit our web
   site unless you choose to provide that information to us.

   Information Automatically Collected and Stored:
     * When you browse through any web site, certain personal information
       about you can be collected. We automatically collect and
       temporarily store the following information about your visit:

     * the name of the domain you use to access the Internet (for example,
       aol.com, if you are using an American Online account, or
       stanford.edu, if you are connecting from Stanford University's
       domain);
     * the date and time of your visit;
     * the pages you visited; and
     * the address of the web site you came from when you came to visit.

     We use this information for statistical purposes and to help us make
   our site more useful to visitors. Unless it is specifically stated
   otherwise, no additional information will be collected about you.

   Disclosure:
     * IGNet will not disclose, give, sell or transfer any personal
       information about our visitors, unless required for law enforcement
       or statute.

   Intrusion Detection:
     * This site is maintained by the U.S. Government. It is protected by
       various provisions of Title 18, U.S. Code. Violations of Title 18
       are subject to criminal prosecution in federal court.
     * For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
       available to all users, we employ software programs to monitor
       traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change
       information, or otherwise cause damage. In the event of authorized
       law enforcement investigations, and pursuant to any required legal
       process, information from these sources may be used to help
       identify an individual.

   Systems of Records:
     * Information originally collected in traditional paper systems can
       be submitted electronically, i.e., electronic commerce transactions
       and information updates about eligibility benefits. Electronically
       submitted information is maintained and destroyed pursuant to the
       Federal Records Act, and in some cases may be subject to the
       Privacy Act. If information that you submit is to be used in a
       Privacy Act system of records, there will be a Privacy Act Notice
       provided.

   [bar.gif]
