http://exportit.ita.doc.gov/ocbe/ocbehome.nsf/e7445254234489d885256547004dddd5/f8db7f2f2dd0c344852568db0070155e/$FILE/ExportITAfrica.pdf

   INTERNET, E-COMMERCE, AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR
   U.S. SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES EXPORTIT AFRICA HIGHLIGHTING
   BOTSWANA, SOUTH AFRICA, AND SADC U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
   International Trade Administration December 2000 Office of Information
   Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000
   Table of Contents Table of Contents Foreword 1 Executive Summary 2
   Chapter 1: SADC 4 Chapter 2: Botswana 15 Chapter 3: South Africa 24
   Chapter 4: The Role of the U.S. Department of Commerce 50 Appendix
   South Africa: Details of Cell C's License Application 59 Useful
   Contacts Botswana 60 South Africa 62 Black Empowerment Groups in the IT
   Sector 65 United States 69 Relevant American Chambers of Commerce
   Abroad 71 Selected Major IT- and Telecommunications-Related Southern
   African Trade Events 72 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 FOREWORD This
   report is one of a series that examines regional telecom/IT markets in
   Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia. It is based on field research
   and analysis carried out in the spring of 2000 by IT specialist Raymond
   Cho (Office of Information Technologies) and telecom services
   specialist Daniel W. Edwards (Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies) of the International Trade Administration, United States
   Department of Commerce. They interviewed IT and telecom producers,
   service suppliers and customers, foreign government officials, regional
   and trade association officials, and industry experts in Gaborone,
   Botswana, and Johannesburg, Pretoria and Durban, South Africa. The work
   was actively supported by Department of Commerce's Foreign Commercial
   Service (FCS) officials and market specialists in South Africa and by
   the State Department's economics/commercial officer in Botswana. This
   report focuses on the status of the telecommunications infrastructure
   and services and on existing and potential IT industries and markets,
   with special attention given to factors influencing the adoption of the
   Internet and electronic commerce in the area. It is hoped that this
   report will prove useful in highlighting potential commercial
   opportunities for U.S. telecom and IT firms in an area of the world
   that is often overlooked and overshadowed by larger and better-known IT
   and telecom markets where U.S. firms may have been involved for several
   years. 1 Office of Information Technologies / Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Southern Africa is
   a region of tremendous needs, vast potential, and future commercial
   opportunities for those telecommunications and IT companies that have
   the vision and commitment to engage themselves in those markets and
   stay the course. In general, Southern Africa is also an area about
   which many of us in the United States, including politicians,
   government officials, and business executives, know too little.
   Unfortunately, mainstream news reports inevitably focus on conflicts,
   crises, or natural disasters. Less well understood are the political
   and economic transformations underway that will bring great changes to
   Southern Africa during the coming decade. That there remain daunting
   challenges and problems in the region cannot be denied. That there is a
   general acceptance there of the urgent need to expand the
   telecommunications networks and develop creative IT solutions must also
   be acknowledged. This report, based upon field research and the
   insights of local business leaders, African officials, and U.S.
   Government experts serving in Africa, seeks to lay out some of the
   current realities and scope for potential activities by U.S. firms in
   the telecom/IT markets in Southern Africa, particularly South Africa
   and Botswana. In some respects, South Africa is atypical in that its
   telecom/IT markets are far larger and more developed than those of its
   regional neighbors. In other ways, however, South Africa faces many of
   the same challenges: how to further privatize and introduce competition
   into its market; how to expand network access to geographical areas and
   populations with no such access today; and how to develop and implement
   IT solutions that will promote the social development of all citizens
   as well as allow businesses to operate more productively. Botswana is
   also atypical of many African countries in that it has a small
   population and a relatively high standard of living for a large section
   of its populace. But it, too, is considering how best to leverage the
   possibilities of new communications technologies. Many areas of the IT
   markets of Southern Africa have yet to be developed. Companies new to
   these markets will be true pioneers. In many cases, it is difficult to
   predict just when and to what extent particular IT solutions will work
   in the marketplace. Again, certain sectors of South Africa's business
   and residential markets are likely to closely follow currents trends in
   the IT markets of Europe and the United States. Activities in the IT
   sector of the South African market, and the markets of other countries
   in the region, are just beginning to emerge. Electronic commerce, for
   example, is still an idea, with limited if any real-world applications,
   in much of that region. But as the telecom infrastructure is rolled out
   and as use of the Internet takes hold and expands, the market for
   IT-related products and services will grow accordingly. In
   telecommunications, typical opportunities include establishing a joint
   venture to provide telecom services, often in response to a formal
   bidding process, and selling all types of telecommunications equipment
   (switches, optical fiber, satellite earth stations, cellular phones,
   etc.) to both government- owned and newer privately-held companies. In
   the IT sector, around 50 percent of Botswana and South Africa's markets
   are comprised of public-sector sales. There is strong demand for
   enterprise- class systems and integration services, as well as
   networking equipment and Internet-related software and services. Growth
   in the personal computer market for small- to medium-sized businesses
   remains robust. 2 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 For U.S. IT SMEs,
   local experts suggest that partnering with either an established or
   new-to-market African firm or systems integrator is one of the best
   routes to penetrate the market. Other options include the use of agents
   and distributors for selected products. Regardless of market entry
   strategy, there are public and private-sector agencies in both Africa
   and the United States that are eager to assist U.S. SMEs in their
   market entry endeavors. 3 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 CHAPTER 1:
   SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (SADC) SADC 1999 / 2000
   Population and GDP Total Population (millions) 199.7 [1] GDP (US$
   billions) $464.4 [1] GDP per Capita (US$) $2325.5 [3] Main Telephone
   Lines Total (millions) 9.0 [4] Per 100 Inhabitants 4.5 [3] Cellular
   Mobile Subscribers Total (millions) 2.8 [2] Per 100 Inhabitants 1.4 [3]
   Internet Total Accounts (thousands) 724 [4] Accounts Per 100
   Inhabitants 0.4 [3] Compiled from: CIA World Factbook 2000 (GDP data
   was calculated using purchasing power parities  PPP), International
   Telecommunications Union ITU Internet Indicators 2000, Mike Jensen (UN
   African Internet Society Initiative) [1] 1999 data [2] 1998 data [3]
   Figure calculated from latest available data. [4] Sept. 2000 figure,
   Mike Jensen (UN - AISI) INTRODUCTION The Southern African Development
   Community TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN SADC: (SADC), with headquarters in
   Gabarone, BACKGROUND Botswana, founded in 1980 and reorganized in 1992,
   is comprised of 14 member states: Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic
   of African countries are accelerating their communications upgrade
   programs at such a rate that, within two years, their Congo, Lesotho,
   Malawi, Mauritius, telecommunications infrastructures could match the
   sophistication Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South of South Africa's
   today. Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Fred Moturi, Dimension
   Data.1 Zimbabwe. The level of IT and telecommunications usage During
   the past few years, impressive steps and deployment varies widely
   within the have been taken to set up institutions and adopt SADC group.
   Some countries, like South recommended policy guidelines for the
   Africa, Botswana, and Mauritius, are relatively development of the
   telecommunications sector more advanced in their application of in
   southern Africa. information technologies vis-à-vis others like DR
   Congo or Lesotho. South Africa, for SADC policy and decision making is
   instance, already has nearly one million conducted through several
   mechanisms and Internet accounts in use, while Lesotho has
   institutions, including a Council of Ministers, a about 250. Most,
   however, have efforts Secretariat, and sectoral committees and underway
   to expand telecommunications commissions. The coordination of access
   and capabilities. For this reason, this telecommunications issues
   within SADC is chapter will mainly focus on the status of the
   telecommunications sector within SADC. 1 African Business "IT Africa"
   December 2000 4 Office of Information Technologies / Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 through the Southern Africa
   Transport and telecommunications networks, ensure fair Communications
   Commission (SATCC). competition among service providers, and Based in
   Maputo, Mozambique, SATCC has promote social goals such as provision of
   developed a series of initiatives and projects, universal access and
   advanced information including the formulation of a model services.
   telecommunications law, several regulatory studies, and the creation of
   a SATCC database. Since governmental financial resources for
   development of the telecom sector are limited, Under a SADC Protocol on
   Transport, SADC policy proposes that governments Communications and
   Meteorology, a statement should gradually privatize the dominant, of
   telecommunications policies and a model state-owned telecom service
   provider and telecommunications bill for SADC countries encourage
   private sector participation and were prepared and approved in June
   1998. competition in the market. It is recognized that The policies
   were approved as a common states will differ in how and at what pace
   they policy guideline for adoption and deal with issues involving
   privatization and the implementation within SADC member introduction of
   competition, but the end-point countries, and the model telecom bill
   was to objective is clear. Finally, the formation of guide national
   legislation for implementing consumer and user groups should be
   welcomed those policies. This development of a and governments give
   them the opportunity to harmonized regional policy was viewed as an
   participate in the development of important step in promoting a number
   of telecommunications. The development of a objectives, including
   provision of affordable, skilled labor force is also critical to the
   efficient and high quality telecommunications transformation of the
   telecom sector. The services; building a competitive regional SADC
   document also discusses key principles telecom sector; and creating a
   supportive that need to be followed in dealing with the environment for
   the expansion of information many telecom issues all nations are
   grappling and communications services. with, including universal
   service and universal access; tariffs; interconnection; frequency The
   SADC document on telecommunications spectrum; standards; introduction
   of new policies sets out general policies regarding the services; and
   encouraging local participation in roles of government, a regulatory
   body, development of the sector. investors and operators, consumers,
   users, and labor. Briefly, government is directed to Telecommunications
   Regulators Association create a favorable environment through of
   Southern Africa (TRASA) liberalization and commercialization of the
   Under the SADC Protocol referred to above, a telecommunications sector.
   The ministry forum called the Telecommunications responsible for
   telecommunications should be Regulators Association of Southern Africa
   responsible for policy formulation and to see (TRASA) was established
   in 1997. that the needs for universal service are Autonomous or
   independent telecom regulators addressed. A regulatory institution
   should are eligible to become full members of have the necessary
   independence from TRASA. Governments of the SADC countries stakeholders
   to ensure impartiality, flexibility which have not yet set up such
   regulatory and transparency. This independent regulatory bodies
   participate in the activities of TRASA authority is to protect the
   interests of as observers. TRASA seeks to promote the consumers,
   stimulate investment in establishment and operation of efficient and 5
   Office of Information Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies,
   USDOC, December 2000 cost-effective telecom networks and services
   courses will be developed after the in the Southern Africa region, to
   co-ordinate survey is completed. regulatory matters and exchange ideas
   and experiences on all aspects of regulation in the * Studies and
   workshops supporting the region, and maximize the utilization of scarce
   development of regulatory policies and resources in telecommunications.
   TRASA has procedures to serve as a model for the set up five committees
   with responsibilities in operation of regulatory institutions in the
   areas of licensing and universal service; the region have been
   undertaken in the interconnection and tariffs; numbering and areas of
   interconnection guidelines and standards; human resource development
   and a regional radio frequency band plan. empowerment; and frequency
   planning and advanced services. * A TRASA website2 has been
   established, and the organization is TRASA works to implement its
   objectives seeking to set up a special purpose through action programs,
   the current one regulatory fund financed from multiple covering the
   period 1999-2001. This program sources. contains strategies and actions
   on influencing governments in the adoption of laws and other TRASA
   seeks to become a consultative and measures for development of the
   collaborative body of telecommunications telecommunications sector;
   capacity building regulators that works to advance the for individual
   regulators; and the development development of telecommunications in
   and adoption of regulatory policies and Southern Africa. It is a new
   body, as are its standards as well as best practices. By regulatory
   authority members, which are February 2000, TRASA could point to
   specific struggling to build institutional capacities and areas of
   success and where further work was adequate human and financial
   resources. In the needed to fully implement the current action past,
   funding has been provided by the U.S. program. Agency for International
   Development, the International Telecommunications Union and * Eight
   countries out of the 14 SADC Motorola. TRASA currently is circulating
   member states have established funding proposals to support work on
   autonomous regulatory bodies, while harmonization of regulatory
   policies and legislation to do so is pending in the procedures on
   competition and on parliaments of two other states. interconnection and
   tariffs. The amounts required are modest, but are essential for *
   Efforts to align national legislation with helping to finish the
   creation of appropriate the SADC Model Telecommunications institutions
   and procedures that will support the Policy and Legislation continue,
   but the growth of a competitive telecommunications original deadline of
   June 2000 has not sector throughout the SADC region. been met in all
   countries. The Southern Africa Regional Telecom * A survey of skills
   needs and analysis of Restructuring Project (RTRP) human resource
   needs, as well as The Regional Telecommunications setting up a
   mechanism for skills Restructuring Project (RTRP) was a $15 transfer,
   has yet to be carried out due to lack of funding. A schedule of
   training 2 http://www.trasa.org 6 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 million, 5-year
   program funded by USAID's a major focus on training should be part of
   the Regional Center for Southern Africa based in continuing effort to
   develop and liberalize Gaborone, Botswana. The program sought to
   telecommunications in Southern Africa. provide support to the telecom
   industry in the region to undertake policy reforms and Setting up
   regional telecom hubs around the restructuring so as to attract private
   investment region to uplink up with satellites and facilitate and
   improve service quality and delivery. voice and data communications
   within the RTRP made significant efforts to place short- region and to
   the rest of the world is an and long-term technical advisors in the
   increasingly appealing idea. Practical region's telecommunications
   ministries and applications for utilizing new telecom regulatory
   bodies, by providing workshops and facilities, such as Internet cafes
   and training in the United States for Southern international money
   transfers, already are in Africans to learn about current regulatory
   and evidence. USAID wants to continue its policy options, and to
   encourage U.S. telecom involvement in the SADC telecom markets, and
   firms to participate in the region. The RTRP there have been other U.S.
   Government efforts also assisted countries to incorporate the in the
   same direction. SADC protocol on telecom legislation into their
   national laws. The RTRP was officially U.S. Government IT Initiatives
   concluded in October 1999. Much progress USAID has also been involved
   in a project was made (as noted in the above section on known as the
   Leland Initiative, that seeks to TRASA), but observers note that the
   improve Internet access and use in 22 African institutional telecom
   framework in Southern countries, including the SADC member Africa is
   still in a "fragile state." countries of Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique,
   Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and During the Program,
   positive activities in the Zimbabwe. Assistance initially was directed
   SADC telecom sector were noticeable. toward national telecom operators
   and was in Several countries set up independent the form of equipment,
   expertise, training and regulators. One or more cellular operators free
   circuits for the first year. Support is began services in many of the
   member states, contingent on agreements to liberalize the and more
   recently, multiple Internet service market to private sector ISPs, to
   adopt providers (ISPs) have obtained licenses and cost-based tariffing
   of Internet services and to are in operation. adopt policies which
   allow for the unrestricted flow of information. The project also helps
   set In a few countries, initial steps were taken to up international
   gateways to support begin the privatization of the state-owned
   establishing connectivity in secondary cities in telecom carriers. The
   decision to privatize is a about 10 countries. political, not a
   technical, issue, but there is growing acceptance of the proposition
   that The Federal Communications Commission government should no longer
   manage the announced the Kennard Development Initiative
   telecommunications service provider but focus in June 1999. Its goal is
   to work with on creating a regulatory framework and developing
   countries to build independent investment climate that promotes private
   sector regulatory agencies equipped to facilitate participation. Yet
   universal consensus on this universal service through competition,
   point among politicians and senior policy liberalization, privatization
   and transparency. officials has yet to be achieved. All agree that The
   FCC is sharing its experience in 7 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 independent
   regulation, open markets, growth. Innovation Africa is focusing on
   competition, spectrum management, licensing, information technology, a
   sector that holds the and cost-based interconnection rates. This most
   potential in Sub-Saharan Africa and also regulatory assistance should
   provide the where U.S. companies are worldwide leaders. foundation for
   the infrastructure investment and In March 2000, staff from the
   International deployment that will enable developing Trade
   Administration traveled to Tanzania, countries to participate more
   fully in the South Africa and Botswana to conduct Global Information
   Society. In Africa, work interviews and gather on-the-spot information
   programs have been signed with telecom in preparation for the analyses,
   assessments regulators in South Africa, Uganda, and Ghana. and market
   guide to the current state-of-play in the telecom and IT sectors in
   Southern Africa The FCC's Africa Initiative was launched in for this
   report. At the same time, work has August 1999 during Chairman
   Kennard's progressed on developing an IT Management meetings in
   Southern Africa. During the Work Tool that guides companies and
   organizations Program with South Africa the FCC has been -- both large
   and small -- in that region through assisting the regulatory authority
   (formerly an assessment of their IT needs in view of SATRA, now ICASA)
   on many aspects of the organizational objectives and resources. This
   administrative process concerning rulemaking free software tool will be
   made available to procedures, processing of applications, interested
   parties in the SADC region. delegation of authority issues, etc. The
   FCC has provided the regulator with policy and SADC Telecom 2000*
   technical advice, as requested, regarding the Country Internet Accts
   Cellular Lines Main Lines expansion of universal access to Angola 4,000
   10,000 82,000 telecommunications throughout South Africa Botswana
   15,000 110,000 109,000 and will discuss applications to education,
   Congo (DR) 200 3,000 25,000 health, the environment and the
   interconnection Lesotho 250 10,000 30,000 Malawi 2,400 18,000 47,000 of
   libraries through telecommunications. Mauritius 13,000 63,000 305,000
   Mozambique 6,000 35,000 82,000 The FCC has been consulted on a variety
   of Namibia 3,000 80,000 108,000 subjects, including methods of
   promoting Seychelles 2,000 4,000 23,000 competition through
   interconnection regulatory South Africa 729,000 5,000,000 7,575,000
   policy, licensing of telecommunications Swaziland 1,200 5,000 34,000
   services, spectrum management and Tanzania 600 60,000 160,000
   monitoring, information technology Zambia 6,500 11,000 94,000
   infrastructure development, and telecom Zimbabwe 20,000 75,000 267,000
   training, primarily in technical areas. Source: Mike Jensen (UN-AISI)
   *Cellular line data is from 1998 (except for Botswana, South Africa,
   and the countries profiled below) The U.S. Department of Commerce has
   developed a long-range action plan for Representative Telecom Markets
   in the commercial activities development in SADC Region Sub-Saharan
   Africa. The keystone of the plan is a pilot program called "Innovation
   Africa." MALAWI One goal of the effort is to see that the very Malawi
   is a landlocked country, slightly best of United States technology is
   delivered to smaller than Pennsylvania, that shares borders Africa to
   help spur continued economic with Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia. It 8
   Office of Information Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies,
   USDOC, December 2000 has a population of about 10 million, a GDP of
   21.4; and an annual telecom services market per capita of $242, a
   teledensity of 0.35, and of $126 million. In 1999, U.S. telecom service
   revenues in 1998 of $33 million. equipment exports to Mauritius totaled
   $13.7 Almost 47,000 main telephone lines have been million, while the
   bilateral trade in telecom installed, and cellular subscribership
   consists services was valued at $16.6 million. of 18,000 users. In 1999
   U.S. telecom equipment exports to Malawi totaled $1.56 The national
   carrier, Mauritius Telecom (MT), million, while the bilateral trade in
   telecom provides local and international telephone services was valued
   at $1.4 million. services; it also offers cellular services, as does
   Emtel Ltd. The number of cellular The Malawi Posts & Telecommunications
   subscribers is about 60,000, and the country Corp. (MPTC) is a
   state-owned company has about 250,000 main telephones lines in
   established in 1995, with a monopoly on operation. This monopoly will
   remain with the providing all telecom services. In 1998, a new
   Government of Mauritius for basic telephony telecommunications act was
   passed that and international gateway operations until established the
   Malawi Communications 2004. Market access and national treatment
   Regulatory Authority (MACRA) to regulate are allowed for fax, paging,
   private mobile broadcasting, telecommunications and postal radio, and
   global mobile personal services and allowed the private sector to
   communications services (GMPCS). After provide such services as data
   communications, 2004, in line with commitments made at the value-added
   and paging services. Presently, World Trade Organization (WTO),
   Mauritius cellular services are provided by Telekom is committed to
   fully liberalizing its Network Malawi (TNM), a joint venture
   telecommunications sector. It also has between MPTC and Telekom
   Malaysia. promised to adopt the set of pro-competitive Malawi's
   principle ISP backbone is provided regulatory principles known as the
   (WTO) by MalawiNet, part of MPTC, and a number of Reference Paper.
   small ISPs are in operation. The Mauritius Telecommunications Authority
   In late 1999, MPTC announced it had begun a (MTA) is currently
   responsible for the overall $58 million project to connect 44,000 new
   regulation of the telecommunications sector in subscribers to the
   telephone network. To Mauritius, including the licensing of achieve
   further growth, MPTC has lined up telecommunications operators. The
   four telecommunications projects aimed at Telecommunications Act
   approved by the revamping the telephone network, among them National
   Assembly in December 1998 are the Northern Region Telecomms provides
   for the setting up of a new regulatory Improvement Project, the
   Blantyre body whose main functions will be to regulate Neighbourhood
   Improvement Project, and the the telecommunications sector as well as
   to Malawi Telecomms One Project covering the promote fair competition
   among operators and central region and parts of the south. to safeguard
   the interests of consumers. The act also provides for the issue of ISP
   licenses. MAURITIUS However, the terms and conditions governing The
   island of Mauritius is located in the India the issue of such licenses
   have not been defined Ocean, has a population of 1.2 million, a GDP
   yet. The MTA will have the sole right to per capita of $3,660; 305,000
   installed main allocate spectrum, including frequencies for lines,
   63,000 cellular subscribers, a teledensity broadcasting. 9 Office of
   Information Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 partner and be expected to strengthen the Mauritius has a
   better telecommunications company 's position internationally.
   infrastructure than most other countries in Africa. The country has
   adopted a national MOZAMBIQUE strategy to become the "Singapore of
   Africa" Mozambique, a country twice the size of and has made telecom
   and data services a high California, with a population of nearly 20
   national priority. The country has a 100 million, extends along the
   southeast African percent digital network, with three SDH fiber
   coastline between South Africa and Tanzania. optic rings built to
   improve the local telecom Its GDP per capita is less than $90, and with
   infrastructure and to provide a high bandwidth more than 80,000 main
   lines installed, its connection to the main ground-station in Port
   teledensity is 0.46. Cellular subscribership is Louis. MT also operates
   a VSAT network. about 35,000. Annual telecom service revenues
   Mauritius' international telecom traffic for the exceed $96 million.
   year ending 6/30/99 totaled 68.2 million minutes, of which 29.7 million
   was outgoing. 1999 U.S. telecom equipment exports to The destination
   for the greatest number of Mozambique totaled $804,000 while minutes
   (20 percent of the total) was France, the bilateral trade in telecom
   services was followed by the U.K. (16 percent), Reunion (10 valued at
   $3.6 million. During 1999, the percent), South Africa (9.3 percent) and
   India country's international telecom traffic total 59 (6.8 percent).
   million minutes (almost 39 million minutes incoming). Nearly one-half
   of its outgoing Currently Telecom Plus is the sole Internet minutes
   went to South Africa. Service Provider (ISP) in Mauritius. Telecom Plus
   was established in 1995 as a joint venture The Telecommunications Law
   of 1992 between Mauritius Telecom and France established
   Telecomunicacoes es de Telecom. Its primary objective is to provide
   Mocambique (TDM) as the monopoly provider value- added
   telecommunications services to of both cellular and basic services. A
   complement the basic telecommunications regulatory body, the National
   services offered by MT. The Government has Telecommunications Institute
   of Mozambique said it intends to promote competition in the (INCM), was
   set up and given responsibility ISP market by granting ISP licenses to
   private for issuing licenses, allocating spectrum and operators on the
   basis of auction, but this setting standards. Value-added and data
   measure has yet to be implemented. communications services are open to
   competition and licensed by INCM. The In December 1999, seven
   international regulatory body is directly under the Ministry companies
   submitted bids for a 40 percent of Transport and Communications, which
   stake in state-owned Mauritius Telecom. Bids appoints its board
   members. INCM has were received from France Telecom, Telkom statutory
   authority to establish regulations. South Africa, Portugal Telecom,
   Telia Sweden, France's Vivendi, Etisalat of the United Arab In 1999,
   the Government passed a new Emirates, and South Africa's Mobile
   telecommunications law that allows for Telephone Network (MTN). A
   government the elimination of the TDM monopoly "at least" document on
   the privatization says the winner five years after it is privatized.
   Although the of the tender would come in as a strategic law is likely
   to eventually open the country's telecom sector to higher level of
   foreign 10 Office of Information Technologies / Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 investment, the pace of change is
   likely to be transmission cables, as well as a network slow. management
   system. The network will cover more than 1,000 km and will link some of
   the TDM has entered into joint ventures with main towns of the country
   that are located foreign private companies for the provision of along
   the coast. various telecom services. TDM has a majority holding in
   Telecomunica Moveis de NAMIBIA Mocambique (TMM), a company established
   Namibia, a country more than half the size of to manage Mcel, the
   nation's only provider of Alaska, borders the South Atlantic Ocean
   cellular services (a GSM system). In addition, between Angola and South
   Africa and has a TDM holds the majority share in the following
   population of about 1.8 million. Its GDP per companies: capita is
   $1,615, but the country exhibits one of the world's most unequal
   patterns of income Televisa for external networks (local loop),
   distribution. With about 108,000 main lines Teleserve for paging
   services (TeleBip), and and an estimated 80,000 cellular subscribers,
   Teledata for data communication and Internet the country's teledensity
   is 6.0. Annual telecom services. services revenues amount to $82
   million. In 1999, U.S. telecom equipment exports to TDM maintains
   microwave links to Zimbabwe, Namibia totaled $481,000, while the
   bilateral Swaziland and South Africa. There have been trade in telecom
   services was valued at $1.76 indications that the Government wants to
   million. promote more competition in the sector and is considering
   issuing a tender for a second Telecom Namibia, a state-owned enterprise
   cellular service provider possibly by the end created in 1992, has a
   monopoly on all basic of 2000. telecom services. It also is the
   majority owner in the cellular operator, Mobile There are three main
   links to the Internet; one is Telecommunications that operates a GSM a
   shared 128/1 mbs satellite link at the network. Namibia's international
   traffic volume Eduardo Mondlane University in Maputo during 1998
   amounted to 112 million (because it is shared, actual bandwidth on the
   minutes, of which 61 million were outgoing. down link is often less
   than 32 kbps) and Eighty-four percent of outbound minutes went another
   is a committed 192/576 kbps link to South Africa. located at TDM that
   was installed as part of the Leland Initiative. The third is a
   committed The Namibia Communications Commission 512/512 kpbs link to
   Portugal that belongs to (NCC) was established in 1982 and reports to
   Teledata and also transfers bank data. The the Ministry of Information
   and Broadcasting. largest, a committed 384/768, is an The NCC handles
   general regulatory issues independent gateway established by the most
   such as licensing and frequency management, successful of the private
   ISPs that emerged as a but questions have been raised about the result
   of the Leland Initiative. This private ISP effectiveness and
   independence of the body. It will be establishing three provincial
   gateways appears, however, that the NCC is not an (64/128) in November
   2000. In the fall of active player in the telecom sector. The 2000, TDM
   launched the first phase of commission reportedly has not been involved
   Mozambique's National Transmision Network when the Government has
   convened certain that will comprise submarine and terrestrial telecom
   policy or regulatory meetings were 11 Office of Information
   Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000
   held. Nor has the NCC been able to attend Zanzibar Telecommunications
   Corporation policy and regulatory meetings held under the (ZANTEL) in
   1996, which has an operating auspices of SADC. license for local and
   international voice and data services both in Zanzibar and on the
   Telecom Namibia has installed a fiber optic mainland. ZANTEL is jointly
   owned by the network throughout the country and is working Government
   of Zanzibar (24 percent) and by on wireless rural telephony. A number
   of ISPs other local and Middle Eastern investors. are operating in the
   country. Plans to privatize TTCL have been announced. In September
   2000, the NCC said it was Thirty-five percent of the company is to be
   preparing to solicit bids for a second cellular offered to private
   investors. The sale of a license. The current and only cell phone
   minority ownership stake will come with licensee is Mobile
   Telecommunications, Ltd. transfer of management control to a strategic
   (MTC), which began operation in 1995. MTC international investor. While
   the expression of is a joint venture between Talia Overseas AB,
   interest period for the privatization tender Swedfund International AB,
   and Namibia Post closed in July 1999, an official timetable for &
   Telecom. This company currently offers a privatization has not been
   set. Oversight variety of services (roaming, voicemail, fax
   responsibility for the privatization lies with the and data services)
   in all of Namibia's major Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform towns
   and presently has close to 80,000 Commission, that has indicated it
   wishes to subscribers. negotiate a price cap on basic service tariffs
   with a strategic partner. In return for making a TANZANIA significant
   capital investment in TTCL and the Tanzania is located in Eastern
   Africa and country's network, the successful bidder is borders the
   Indian Ocean between Kenya and likely to be given exclusivity in the
   provision Mozambique. It has a population of more than of basic
   services for a period of three to four 32 million and a per capita GDP
   of $244. years. There are approximately 160,000 installed lines and
   60,000 cellular subscribers. The TTCL already faces competition from
   country's teledensity is 0.32. Annual revenues value-added service
   providers that are from the telecom services market total $110
   operating in Tanzania, where three companies million. In 1999, U.S.
   telecom equipment are in business. Three cellular licenses were exports
   to Tanzania totaled $8.4 million, while initially awarded (Mobitel,
   Tritel, and the bilateral trade in telecom services was Planitel), so
   that there would be two valued at $5.75 million. competitors in each of
   four regions. Recently others have been granted. Mobitel began
   Legislation passed in 1993 established the operations in 1994. TTCL has
   a 25 percent Tanzania Telecommunications Corporation interest in
   Mobitel, but is expected to divest (TTCL), which is a wholly
   state-owned that interest as it has received its own cellular operating
   company. TTCL operates as a license. Millicom International is a
   monopoly with international and domestic stakeholder in Mobitel. Tritel
   has a Malaysian basic voice services on the mainland. firm as
   joint-venture partner. Although TTCL initially was also granted
   monopoly rights for basic services in Zanzibar, ZANTEL was licensed to
   establish its own the Government of Zanzibar created the gateway in
   Zanzibar, so value-added service 12 Office of Information Technologies
   / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 firms (and
   ISPs) will be able to access that percent to the United States, and 10
   percent to gateway and not be restricted to the one Zimbabwe. In order
   to expand its network, operated by TTCL. There are also three public
   Zamtel has installed a Motorola WiLL system data service operators. One
   of them, DATEL, around Lusaka and a VSAT-based rural is a joint venture
   with TTCL as a partner. The domestic satellite system using the
   INTELSAT data service providers also may bypass TTCL network. Zamtel
   also offers mobile services for their international services. Four
   firms in competition with Telecel Zambia and have licenses to provide
   national radio paging Zamcell. U.S.-based Telecel International has
   services. a majority ownership in Telecel and has a CDMA network.
   Zamcell has a GSM network; Foreign ownership up to 51 percent is there
   are reports that the two firms may permitted in any of the non-basic
   telecom eventually form a partnership. Despite the fact service
   categories, although in the past, such that the new cellular companies
   imported their requirements have been waived, and some own equipment
   under the guarantee that they value-added service firms were allowed
   100 would be allowed to operate it themselves, percent foreign
   ownership. However, license both Zamcell and Telecel are required to
   use applications are still subject to a 35 percent Zamtel's switching
   facilities, which raises local participation requirement for approval.
   their costs considerably. In addition, they often are unable to secure
   the number of lines they ZAMBIA need to handle their customer
   requirements. Zambia is a landlocked country, slightly larger The new
   GSM network was recently bid and than Texas, and situated between
   Angola, won by Mitsui. Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Tanzania and the
   Democratic Republic of the Congo. It A regulatory body, the
   Communications has a population of about 10 million and a per Authority
   was provided for under the 1994 law capita GDP of $464. There are
   94,000 and is functioning. Some observers believe it installed
   telephone lines in the country (a has not yet established itself as a
   fully teledensity of 1.1) and about 11,000 independent and effective
   institution. subscribers for cellular services. The value of the
   telecom services market is $102 million, Data communications and leased
   line services and investment in the sector in 1997 totaled are open to
   competition, but companies $11 million. In 1999, U.S. telecom equipment
   providing such services do so mainly around exports to Zambia totaled
   $1.8 million, while the Lusaka metro area. Zambia first got access the
   bilateral trade in telecom services was to the Internet through ZamNet,
   a private valued at $5.3 million. company operated by the national
   university. Zamnet, Zamtel and Coppernet currently Zambia
   Telecommunications Ltd. (Zamtel) was provide Internet services.
   Satellite bandwidth established as a government-owned is provided by
   PanAmSat. corporation under a 1994 national telecommunications law.
   Zamtel provides In 1999, the Government of Zambia published a switched
   telephony services. Zambia's policy framework paper with the IMF that
   international traffic totaled 32 million minutes outlined a strategy
   for continued economic in 1999, of which 16 million were outbound.
   liberalization and the commercialization or Thirty percent of outbound
   traffic went to South privatization of Zambia's remaining parastatal
   Africa; 15 percent to the United Kingdom; 11 companies. The plan called
   for the sale of a 13 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 minority share
   holding (probably about 20 The PTC is government-owned and the percent)
   in Zamtel, along with management monopoly provider of basic telecom and
   rights. Later, the Zambia Privatization Agency value-added services.
   PTC handled 106 published a tender inviting pre-qualification million
   minutes of international traffic in 1998, bids from foreign telecom
   firms to acquire a 20 evenly divided between incoming and outgoing
   percent minority interest in Zamtel plus overall traffic. Destinations
   for outbound traffic operational management and asked for included
   South Africa (43 percent of total responses by March 21, 2000. Since
   then, minutes), the United Kingdom (8 percent of the there has been
   little activity. An independent minutes), the United States (6
   percent), and British contractor may do an assessment study, Botswana
   (5 percent). PTC is pursuing a but the government appears to tie
   further network expansion program that has resulted in progress on
   privatization to debt relief and fiber optic cable being installed in
   Harare and many donor assistance agreements. Mutare, while digital
   lines are being planned for the provinces. The country's international
   ZIMBABWE connections are generally by satellite. Zimbabwe, a country
   slightly larger than Montana, is surrounded by Botswana, Cellular
   service is offered by PTC through its Mozambique, South Africa and
   Zambia. It has Net*One subsidiary, while Telecel -- a population of
   11.5 million people and a per Zimbabwe and Econet also hold licenses.
   Both capita GDP of $712. There are 267,000 companies are required to
   lease satellite space installed lines in the country (a teledensity of
   or time from PTC for their cross-border traffic. 1.72) and about 75,000
   cellular subscribers. The existing telecommunications bill requires
   Annual telecom service revenues are nearly all incoming and outgoing
   telephone traffic to $140 million, while investment in the sector be
   routed through PTC. Banks and mining was $132 million in 1996. In 1999,
   U.S. companies have set up VSAT networks, while telecom equipment
   exports to Zimbabwe Zimbabwe Railways operates a private VSAT totaled
   $4.75 million, while the bilateral trade network. in telecom services
   was valued at $9.9 million. While the basic telecommunications law for
   MANGO, a cooperative of local and Zimbabwe dates to 1970, amendments
   were international NGOs, established Zimbabwe's passed in 1996. Those
   amendments, however, first link to the Internet in 1990 and continues
   did not provide for an independent regulatory to provide low cost
   e-mail service. Six ISPs body or for liberalization of the telecom
   sector. are offering service: Samara Services, Data The Ministry of
   Information, Posts and Control, Africa-Online, Inter Data, Zambezi
   Telecommunications prepared a draft Net and Prime Net Communications.
   Any Communications Bill that was introduced in business, including
   foreign-owned companies Parliament in 1999. The bill would open the
   registered with the Ministry of Industry and sector to some competition
   and set up an Commerce can apply for and usually receive an independent
   regulatory agency. Under the Internet franchise that allows it to
   become an legislation, steps will be taken to partially ISP. The
   company must then enter into a privatize the Post and
   Telecommunications contract with the PTC. ISPs are not allowed to
   Corporation (PTC), which is expected to operate their own telecom
   switches or remain the sole provider of basic services for a
   international gateways. five-to-ten year period. 14 Office of
   Information Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 CHAPTER 2: BOTSWANA BOTSWANA 1999 Population and GDP
   Total Population (millions) 1.6 GDP per Capita (US$) $3,900 Main
   Telephone Lines Total (thousands) 109 [3] Per 100 Inhabitants 6.8 [2]
   Cellular Mobile Subscribers Total (thousands) 110 Per 100 Inhabitants
   6.9 [2] Personal Computers Total (thousands) 40 [1] Per 100 Inhabitants
   2.55 [1] Internet Total Users / Accounts (thousands) 20 [1] / 15 [3]
   Users Per 100 Inhabitants 0.6 [1] Source: CIA World Factbook 2000 (GDP
   data is PPP), International Telecommunications Union ITU Internet
   Indicators 2000, Mike Jensen (UN  African Internet Society Initiative),
   U.S. Embassy in Ga borone [1] 1998 figure [2] Figure calculated from
   latest available data. [3] Sept. 2000 figure, Mike Jensen (UN-AISI)
   Note: "Batswana" is the plural form used to describe the residents of
   Botswana. THE OVERALL IT MARKET AND performance somewhat in 1999, the
   longer- INDUSTRY term outlook remains positive. Botswana is fertile
   ground for IT and telecom sales Sales of computer hardware and software
   Botswana, located north of South Africa, products increased from $20.9
   million in 1997 borders Namibia, Angola, Zambia and to $26.2 million in
   19994. Nearly all of this Zimbabwe. The country is about the size of
   was in the form of imports, with U.S. products Texas, and part of it is
   taken up by the Kalahari comprising the largest share. Many IT goods
   Desert. are first shipped to South Africa and then sent to a Botswana
   distributor for resale. The The New York Times reported in 1998 that
   the Botswana IT market is estimated to grow at an World Bank had
   identified Botswana as the annual rate of 10 percent. As in South
   Africa, country with the greatest rate of economic the rate of IT
   uptake is high. If a small- to growth in the world from 1966 to 1997.
   Its medium-sized business is going to invest in an average annual
   growth rate of 9.2 percent IT solution, then they tend to invest in the
   latest exceeded that of South Korea (7.3%) and solutions within their
   price range. Trends map China (6.7%). In 1998 and 1999, strong well to
   those in South Africa, which in turn lag growth rates continued as
   Botswana's economy Europe and America by up to two years. grew by more
   than 8 and 6 percent respectively, leading to a per capita GDP of
   Botswana has 109,000 main telephone lines about $3,9003 in 1999.
   Although the Asian installed for a teledensity of about 6.8 and
   financial crisis and the resultant downturn in additionally boasts
   110,000 cellular global diamond markets -- the mainstay of the
   subscribers. Annual telecom service revenues Botswana economy -- had
   affected economic exceed $150 million. 1999 U.S. telecom 3 4 CIA World
   Factbook 2000. Botswana Country Commercial Guide 2000. 15 Office of
   Information Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 equipment exports to Botswana totaled $2.0 Africa but are
   re-exports. Goods move back million, while the bilateral trade in
   telecom and forth easily as both countries are members services was
   valued at $2.2 million. of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU).
   The South African currency, the The government, including parastatals
   such as Rand, is for the most part easily exchangeable Botswana
   Telecom, is a major buyer of IT with the Botswana Pula6, and there is a
   great solutions. Public sector spending is about 60 deal of
   cross-border shopping. Botswana is, percent of IT sales in Botswana.
   Efforts are by African standards, an affluent country. The underway to
   connect administrative centers and per capita GDP is among the highest
   on the departments to the Internet and the government continent and
   compares well with China and is setting up vocational IT training
   centers. In the Philippines.7 the corporate sector, particularly among
   financial and mining companies, there is HIV/AIDS is a major problem
   increased interest in enterprise resource Unfortunately, Botswana and
   South Africa planning (ERP) solutions. share more than a border; they
   both have extremely high rates of HIV/AIDS infection. It There were
   roughly 2.55 personal computers is estimated that about 290,000
   Batswana are for every 100 Batswana in 1998, which was infected with
   the virus, which is equivalent to substantially lower than South
   Africa's 4.74 36 percent of the adult population.8 How this and an
   order of magnitude lower than the 50 epidemic will affect future
   economic growth in PCs per 100 Americans5. Many users are the country
   is unclear. students who rely upon computers located in educational
   institutions or in Internet cafes as Botswana is open to foreign
   investment 9 opposed to private homes. There are usually The World
   Economic Forum has placed multiple users per computer and Internet
   Botswana third on the continent in overall account, so the low number
   may not represent business competitiveness both of the times the
   typical patterns of usage. About 75 percent of organization has
   compiled such rankings.10 The the population is under the age of 25.
   Small government seeks to promote business and is businesses also make
   up a large number of committed to helping foreign companies invest
   Internet users. Botswana's low rate of in Botswana. Foreign exchange
   controls have computer penetration, given the country's been
   eliminated; crime and corruption are relatively high disposable income,
   indicates a relatively low; and the regulatory system is market that is
   far from saturated. transparent. Foreign investors are allowed to
   participate in all IT sectors and equal treatment The economy
   intimately linked to that of is accorded to both foreign and domestic
   South Africa investment. There are no formal barriers that Botswana's
   economy is highly dependent on South Africa. Only 1.57 million people
   live in 6 It now costs 1.38 Rand to buy one Pula. The Pula has
   appreciated Botswana, a population about forty times against the Rand
   by 5.4% in 2000. smaller than in South Africa. Roughly 75 to 80 7 Using
   GDP numbers from the CIA World Factbook 2000. percent of Botswana's
   imports come from its 8 Philadelphia Inquirer, July 10, 2000 much
   larger southern neighbor, including 9 For more information on
   investment, trade agreements, conversion products that are not
   originally from South and transfer policies, IPR, taxation, and trade
   regulations, please refer to the Botswana Country Commercial Guide
   2000. Visit http://www.usatrade.gov to obtain a copy in PDF format. 10
   5 World Economic Forum Africa Competitiveness Report 1998-1999 ITU
   Challenges to the Network 1999. and 2000-2001. Botswana ranks after
   Mauritius and Tunisia. 16 Office of Information Technologies /
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 could cause an
   impediment to investment, limit Botswana has abolished exchange
   controls, and competition, or protect domestic interests at the there
   are no restrictions on repatriating profits, expense of foreign firms.
   service fees, returns on intellectual property, and royalties. However,
   a form provided by a The Botswana Export Development and commercial
   bank must be completed with each Investment Agency (BEDIA) was recently
   transaction (forms A and S for outward and created to act as a
   "one-stop shop" in assisting inward transactions, respectively).
   foreign investors to overcome bureaucratic delays and minimize red
   tape. BEDIA will Localization help investors obtain work or residence
   English is the official language of government permits, get the
   required licenses and other and business in Botswana, although Setswana
   regulatory authorizations, and even provide is the first language of
   most Batswana. There start-up grants. Longer-term investment are no
   official localization requirements for financing can be obtained from
   both the software and IT products. Botswana Development Corporation and
   the National Development Bank. Standards Botswana is a member of the
   International TRADE AGREEMENTS Organization for Standardization (ISO),
   which Botswana is a member of the World Trade is the body responsible
   for developing Organization (WTO) but is not a signatory to standards
   in all technical fields except for its Information Technology
   Agreement, which electrical and electronic engineering. All lowers
   tariffs on a range of IT products, or its computer equipment (imported
   and local) Basic Telecom Agreement. A number of should comply with the
   following ISO bilateral trade agreements have been signed standards
   administered by the Botswana with China, Korea, Russia, and other
   nations Bureau of Standards. that provide for most favored nation
   treatment. * CISPR 22: Radio disturbance More importantly, Botswana is
   a member of characteristics of information the Southern Africa Customs
   Union (SACU), technology equipment.11 which eliminates duties on goods
   moving * IEC 60950: Safety of information between five different
   countries in the region technology equipment.12 with a common set of
   external tariffs on goods entering the Union. Botswana is also a member
   Intellectual property of the Southern African Development Botswana
   became a member of the World Community (SADC), an organization of 14
   Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in countries that is
   currently negotiating a free 1998 and has also recently enacted
   legislation trade agreement. As Botswana is a landlocked to comply with
   the Agreement on Trade- country with a small domestic market, its
   Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights economic future and
   ability to attract foreign (TRIPS) at the WTO. Current laws, however,
   investment hinges on providing cost-effective do not fully protect
   intellectual property such access to a greater market beyond its
   borders. as computer software. The government has yet REGULATIONS 11
   Royalties and license fees are freely CISPR 22 specifies the limits of
   radio frequency emissions which transferable appliances and other
   electrical equipment are allowed. 12 IEC 60950 specifies requirements
   intended to ensure safety for the operator and layman who may come into
   contact with the equipment and, where specifically stated, for service
   personnel. 17 Office of Information Technologies / Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 to implement several provisions of
   its own opportunity for Botswana citizens to Industrial Property Act of
   1997, including the participate in the ownership of parastatals.
   establishment of a patents registry. Botswana currently only recognizes
   patents registered in BTC has extended its network to cover most of the
   United Kingdom and South Africa. the populated areas of Botswana. Rural
   communications are enhanced at remote sites Taxation around the country
   through the provision of Botswana is considered to have some of the
   service at breakout points along the backbone lowest tax rates in the
   region. The corporate route. This fully digitalized backbone is being
   tax rate is 15 percent with a 10 percent utilized to provide a range of
   services, additional company tax. Manufacturing and including
   value-added networks, pay phones, financial services companies pay a
   single data services and leased lines, that utilize new concessionary
   tax of 15 percent. The maximum technologies. During the last two years,
   BTC marginal rate of income tax is 25 percent. has turned to wireless
   technology to speed up There is a 10 percent sales tax except for food,
   service delivery, with about 7,000 lines construction materials,
   capital goods, currently connected in this way. A nationwide medicines,
   books and stationery, which are network of 2,500 pay phones has been
   exempt. There is no legislation on sales taxes installed. Over the next
   few years, BTC's for E-Commerce transactions, but ostensibly entire
   network will be upgraded to existing sales taxes on purchases would
   apply. Synchronized Digital Hierarchy (SDH) technology. BTC is also
   introducing frame TELECOMMUNICATIONS relay services and ISDN services.
   A White The Botswana Telecommunications Paper on the privatization of
   BTC has been Corporation (BTC) prepared, but no time schedule has been
   The state-owned service supplier, Botswana announced. Some observers
   believe the Telecommunications Corporation (BTC), was process will be
   well under way before the end established in 1980 and was the only
   telecom of 2000. operator until 1996, when two cellular joint firms
   were set up. Botswana's finance The telecommunications regulator
   minister recently announced the government's In 1996, legislation was
   enacted that intention to privatize BTC, although specific established
   a regulatory authority and details have not yet been revealed. That
   deregulated some market sectors, such as process is expected to be
   underway before the customer premises equipment and value added end of
   2000. The National Assembly has services, and opened the cellular
   market to adopted the Minister of Finance and private operators. There
   are no foreign Development Planning's draft White Paper on ownership
   restrictions in the Act, although Privatization. The main thrust of the
   policy regulatory authorities encourage teaming up would be to bring
   about optimal efficiency in with local firms. The Botswana the
   provision of public services by attracting Telecommunications Authority
   (BTA) was private capital flows, managerial expertise and established
   in December 1996 and began technical skills. It would provide an
   licensing operators the following July. BTA institutional and legal
   framework for approves the prices BTC charges for access privatization
   of parastatals like BTC. In lines and national telephone calls. BTA is
   also addition, the policy aims to provide an charged to ensure the
   rational use of the radio frequency spectrum in the country. 18 Office
   of Information Technologies / Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 and BTC, as they had failed to conclude a Besides
   licensing telecom operators, BTA voluntary agreement concerning the
   appropriate ensures universal access to telecommunications
   interconnection and leased line charges. BTA services throughout
   Botswana, type approves issued a ruling that was to be effective until
   telecom equipment connected to the public early 2000. Competition in
   mobile cellular network, promotes and maintains competition, services
   was introduced in 1998 with the guided by competition rules specified
   in the licensing of two operators, Mascom Wireless, Telecom Act, and
   operates as a quasi-judicial a joint venture between Portugal Telecom
   body to settle disputes between users and International, T.X. Masiyiwa
   (Zimbabwe- operators and among the operators themselves. based) and
   local partner DECI Holdings and BTA also advises the government on
   general Vista Cellular, combining France Telecom telecommunications
   policies, and a new (51%) with several local partners. Each
   Broadcasting Act has relieved BTA of some of license covered
   approximately half of the its powers over broadcasting. BTA has five
   country, and both operators were required to members of the Board
   appointed by the offer services in and around the capital city,
   Minister of Works, Transport and Gaborone. Once the operating company
   Communications. A government grant completed network construction
   within its supplemented by service and systems license initial
   operating area, it could expand its fees provides the budget for the
   agency. network throughout the country. Botswana uses a
   calling-party-pay billing scheme. Satellite, cellular, and ISP services
   BTA has signed the ITU's Memorandum of The cellular market can be
   divided into three Understanding on Global Mobile Personal segments:
   one to two percent of the population Communications by Satellite
   (GMPCS) that is wealthy and buys multiple phones; 10 to designed to
   facilitate free movement of 12% that earn monthly salaries of from $900
   to terminals (phones) on a transitory basis with $4,000 and are solidly
   "middle class;" and the signatory administrations. BTA is, in 85% of
   the population that earns $100 or less principle, prepared to grant
   GMPCS licenses a month and makes up the prepaid market for based upon a
   favorable review of necessary cellular calls. Although the market is
   less than information provided by the applicant. BTC is two years old,
   growth has exceeded all building its own VSAT hub that will ensure
   expectations, so that the number of cellular point-to-point
   connectivity via satellite to all subscribers now exceeds the number
   with customers in the southern Africa region. The service from the
   fixed-network operator Government granted its first five-year satellite
   (BTC). In the future, the cellular networks may licenses to mobile
   phone companies in 1998 tie in with global satellite networks and and
   does not plan to re-open the bidding until provide high speed
   international data links. 2003. U.S. companies desiring to enter the
   market would have to go through the current There are still challenges
   ahead in this license holders. The Government has sector established a
   subsidiary, Botsnet, as an ISP that People we spoke with raised a
   number of is offering commercial services in competition
