http://safmc.noaa.gov/safmcweb/library/SAFMC_Update_July_2001.pdf

   The South Atlantic Fishery Management Council's South Atlantic Update
   Published for fishermen and others interested in marine resource
   conservation issues July 2001 Review of Proposed List of MPA Sites
   Continues Council Refines Areas for Consideration and Approves Two
   Rounds of Public Hearings in 2002 This past spring, the South Atlantic
   Fishery Management reviewed public comment received during the scoping
   Council conducted the second in a series of informal process along with
   the proposed areas resulting from the public meetings along the south
   Atlantic coast to gather Advisory Panel meeting. After hearing input
   regarding the use of Marine Protected Areas recommendations from the
   Committee, the Council (MPAs) and possible site locations. The Council
   is voted to continue to move forward with the use of MPAs considering
   the use of MPAs as a management tool to as a fishery management tool
   and to accept a modified protect snapper grouper complex species,
   especially listing of sites for continued review. Although several
   deepwater species such as speckled hind, snowy grouper sites were
   removed or modified from the original list, and tilefish. As part of
   the scoping process, the Council over two-dozen sites remain open for
   consideration. also held a three-day meeting of the Marine Protected
   The Council also approved a motion to have two rounds Area Advisory
   Panel in May. The Advisory Panel, of public hearings regarding MPAs
   beginning in 2002. composed of individuals representing recreational
   and commercial fishermen, fishing industries, state agencies In North
   Carolina, two sites remain on the current list for and conservation
   groups, developed a preliminary list of consideration including a
   deep-water site southeast of sites for the Council to consider as
   possible Marine Wilmington and a possible site for the use of
   artificial Protected Areas. reef material off of Beaufort Inlet.
   According to Dr. Louis Daniel, Council member from North Carolina, At
   the June Council meeting in St. Augustine, Florida, the site off of
   Wilmington is being considered as a the Council's Marine Protected Area
   Committee "Type 2" MPA site, where bottom fishing would be closed but
   fishing for pelagics allowed. "This is a deepwater site, 400 to 600
   feet deep and known for snowy grouper and red porgy spawning. It is
   also a popular spot for trolling, especially for tuna." (Continued page
   4) Inside This Issue: Editorial Note - Boat Seized ................. 2
   In The News ............................. 3 Advisory Panel Members
   Needed ... 3 The Council defines marine protected areas as a network of
   MPA Action Timeline................... 5 specific areas of marine
   environments managed for the Rock Shrimp Limited Entry........... 6
   primary purpose of aiding in the recovery of overfished New Council
   Members................. 6 stocks to insure the persistence of healthy
   fish stocks, Job Announcements ................... 7 fisheries and
   habitats. Such areas may be over natural or Calendar
   ................................. 8 artificial bottom and may include
   prohibition of harvest on a permanent or time-specific basis. The South
   Atlantic Fishery Management Council, One Southpark Circle, Suite 306
   Charleston, SC 29407; Telephone: (843) 571-4366; FAX: (843) 769-4520;
   E-mail: safmc@noaa.gov Web Site: www.safmnet SOUTH ATLANTIC Editorial
   Note: Law Enforcement At Work... FISHERY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL BOAT SEIZED
   AFTER Robert K. Mahood Gregg T. Waugh REPEAT VIOLATIONS Executive
   Director Deputy Director (Taken with permission from the Jacksonville
   Times Union - Joe Julavits) VOTING MEMBERS In a maritime version of
   three strikes and you're out, the federal government seized a
   commercial dive boat belonging to a Jacksonville Designated State
   Officials Beach man with a lengthy record of fishing violations. The
   38-foot David Cupka, Vice-Chair Roy Crabtree Diamond Diver, owned by
   Dan R. Lindley, was confiscated June 18 Charleston, SC Tallahassee, FL
   by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The (843)
   795-6350 (850) 487-0554 agency had filed a forfeiture complaint in U.S.
   district court in Susan Shipman Louis Daniel Jacksonville, where an
   arrest warrant for the boat was signed. Brunswick, GA Morehead City, NC
   (912) 264-7218 (252) 726-7021 "The boat was seized and the case is
   pending," said Robin Jung, an attorney in NOAA's Southeast Regional
   Office of General Council Appointed Obligatory Members based in St.
   Petersburg, FL. "[Vessel forfeiture] is not a very common Anthony
   Iarocci Jodie Gay thing, but when you're a three-timer, that's one of
   our remedies." (through 8/10/01) Grassy Key, FL Hampstead, NC (305)
   743-7162 (910) 270-3718 Lindley first became the target of a federal
   investigation into spiny lobster poaching in 1996. On August 5, 1997,
   Lindley's boat was Glenn H. Durden Charles Stone (through 8/10/01)
   boarded about 40 miles off St. Augustine by officers of the Coast
   Vidalia, GA Murrells Inlet, SC Guard and then-Florida Marine Patrol.
   They found Lindley and his (912) 537-7074 (843) 651-1645 crew to be in
   possession of spiny lobster before the commercial season Appointed
   At-Large Members had opened. Officers also found a logbook that
   revealed repeated Edward B. LeMaster III Fulton Love, Chairman
   violations during the previous year. Ponte Vedra Beach, FL Savannah, GA
   Lindely later admitted to committing 21 violations, including nine
   (904) 285-6017 (912) 925-3616 counts of harvesting lobsters during
   closed season; nine counts of exceeding trip limits for cobia; one
   count of harvesting and stripping John M. Dean Clarence W. Lee eggs
   from egg bearing lobsters; one count of making false statements
   Columbia, SC Kill Devil Hills, NC to officers; and one count of
   disposing of evidence during a boarding. (803) 777-0075 (252)480-1287
   NMFS Regional Administrator In a settlement agreement with NOAA,
   Lindley was fined $35,000, Joseph Powers (Acting) his federal fisheries
   permits were revoked for 90 days and he was 9721 Executive Center
   Drive, North given a five-year probation. As part of the agreement,
   Lindley would St. Petersburg, FL 33702 be penalized an additional
   $33,000 if he committed any federal fishery violation during the
   probationary period. (727) 570-5301 Non-Voting Members But on August
   12, 1999, Lindely was boarded again by Coast Guard ASMFC US Fish &
   Wildlife officers, who escorted the Diamond Diver to Mayport (FL).
   There, Washington, DC Atlanta, GA NOAA investigators seized 75 spiny
   lobster tails that appeared to (202) 289-6400 (404) 331-3588 have been
   stripped of orange egg clusters - a practice that's illegal - along
   with several fish fillets. Lab tests confirmed that most of the US
   Coast Guard State Department lobster tails had held eggs when they were
   harvested. Again, Lindley Miami, FL Washington, DC reached an agreement
   with NOAA, admitting to three violations and (305) 415-6778 (202)
   647-7948 agreeing to pay a $10,000 fine. Only this time, in order to
   avoid paying the additional $33,000 fine for violating his five-year
   probation, he lost his federal fishing permits for the remainder of his
   life. "Mr. Editor's Note Lindley will be out of the fishing business
   forever," said a National Marine Fisheries Service official at the
   time. The South Atlantic Update is published by the South Atlan- tic
   Fishery Management Council. Its purpose is to report But not quite.
   developments in fisheries management that would be of in- terest to its
   readers. Please credit the council when reprint- In August of last
   year, Lindley was caught again off St. Augustine, this ing articles
   used in this newsletter. Anyone wishing to sub- time harvesting lobster
   out of the Diamond Diver and transferring mit information or articles
   pertaining to fishing or fisheries them at sea to another boat that had
   a permit. The operator of the management, or letters to the editor on a
   pertinent issue, is second boat was fined $5,000. Lindley, who had
   already been invited and encouraged to do so. Submissions may be mailed
   stripped of his fishing permits, wound up loosing his boat. "This time,
   to Kim Iverson, Editor, South Atlantic Update, One Southpark the agency
   decided we would seize his vessel," Jung said. The charges Circle,
   Suite 306, Charleston, SC 29407-4699, or may be against Lindley have
   been civil, not criminal, Jung said. "With the sent via the internet;
   Email address: kim.iverson@noaa.gov overall intent and structure of the
   Magnuson-Stevens Fishery A publication of the South Atlantic Fishery
   Management Counci Pursuant to National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration Award No. NA17FC1053. Conservation and Management Act,
   Congress has decided these are civil matters," Jung said. 2 The South
   Atlantic Update July 2001 pounds. The recreational bag limit for
   between 1988 and 1998. Dr. Crabtree IN THE NEWS: king mackerel remains
   at 3 per person/ has also worked as a researcher at the South Carolina
   DNR Director Named day off Georgia north through New SC Marine Research
   Center, the U.S. to National Ocean Policy Group York with a 2 per
   person/day off of Environmental Protection Agency's Florida (bag limit
   in federal waters off Bears Bluff Field Station in SC, and the The
   White House has announced that Florida same as the state bag limit).
   Virginia Institute of Marine Science at President George W. Bush
   intends to The recreational bag limit for Spanish Gloucester Point, VA.
   In addition, Dr. appoint Dr. Paul A. Sandifer, Director of mackerel is
   15 per person off Florida Crabtree was a self-employed fishing the S.C.
   Department of Natural through New York. Minimum size limit guide in the
   Florida Keys and Everglades Resources, to the National Commission for
   king mackerel is 24" FL, for Spanish National Park. As the new
   director, on Ocean Policy. The 16-member mackerel it is 12" FL (size
   limits are the Crabtree will replace interim director, commission was
   created by Congress same for both recreational and Ken Haddad as the
   designee to the via the Oceans Act of 2000 to make commercial
   fisheries). Council from the state of Florida. policy recommendations
   that will promote responsible stewardship of Dr. Crabtree is Florida's
   New Marine Gulf Council Announces Revised ocean resources. David Cupka,
   Vice Fisheries Director and Council Control Date for Charter Permit
   Chairman of the South Atlantic Fishery Designee Moratorium Management
   Council (Council), is the South Carolina designee to the Council Dr.
   Roy Crabtee has been appointed Charter fishermen who operate at any for
   Dr. Sandifer. as Director of the Florida Fish and time in the Gulf of
   Mexico should be Wildlife Conservation Commission's aware that the Gulf
   of Mexico Fishery No Changes to 2001-02 Atlantic Group Division of
   Marine Fisheries. Dr. Management Council has taken final Mackerel
   Regulations Crabtree, who worked at the Florida action on an amendment
   for the fishery Marine Research Institute from 1988 management plans
   for Gulf reef fish and The Mackerel Committee and Mackerel to 1998, has
   most recently worked for coastal migratory pelagic fish that would
   Advisory Panel met jointly at the June the National Marine Fisheries
   Service establish a moratorium on issuing Council meeting to discuss
   issues facing for 2 1/2 years. Dr. Crabtree has additional charter
   vessel and headboat both king and Spanish mackerel. worked as a fishery
   management (recreational-for-hire) permits. A control Recommendations
   were made to the specialist and later as a team leader date of March
   29, 2001 has been Council to maintain the current for the Southeast
   Regional Office of established. Anyone entering the commercial TACs
   (Total Allowable the National Marine Fisheries Service
   recreational-for-hire fisheries for the Gulf Catch) and recreational
   bag limits. The at St. Petersburg, Florida. He held of Mexico after
   that date would not be quota for Atlantic group king mackerel various
   positions, as a researcher at eligible for a charter vessel or headboat
   will remain at 3.71 million pounds and the Florida Marine Research
   Institute permit if the amendment is approved by for Spanish mackerel,
   3.87 million NMFS. Council Advisory Panel Members Needed Are you
   interested in issues affecting fisheries in your area? GET INVOLVED!
   The Council is seeking applications for members to serve on a number of
   advisory panels. These advisory panels are composed of commercial and
   recreational fishermen, conservationists, scientists and others
   knowledgeable and interested in the conservation and management of a
   fishery or a group of fishes to be managed. If you are interested in
   obtaining an application or would like more information, please contact
   Kim Iverson at 843/571-4366 or go online at www.safmc.net. Applications
   will be considered at the September Council meeting and are due in the
   Council office by August 23, 2001. Applications are being accepted for
   the following positions: Dolphin/Wahoo Commercial Seats (2) 1 FL & 1
   At-Large Habitat & Env. Conservation GA Protection Commercial FL King &
   Spanish Commercial (3) NC (1) & FL (2) Mackerel Recreational GA Shrimp
   Commercial FL Rock Shrimp Commercial At-Large Snapper Grouper
   Commercial (2) SC & GA Recreational SC Wreckfish Commercial (4) SC (1)
   & FL (3) The South Atlantic Update July 2001 3 (Marine Protected Areas
   Continued) referred it back to the Sanctuary for evaluation in their
   sanctuary management process. The Council will continue to work closely
   with GRNMS through their analysis of a research study area in the
   sanctuary management plan process. The Council also requested
   scientific advice regarding the use of artificial reef material at a
   fifth proposed site. In Florida, the revised list removes any sites
   located in state waters along with Carysfort Reef off of Key Largo and
   Fowey Rocks in Key Biscayne National Park, two popular sportfishing
   areas. The "Islamorada Hump", another popular fishing area in the
   Florida Keys will remain on the list but will only be considered for
   spawning closures. The area has been identified as a spawning area
   Members of the MPA Advisory Panel met in May to develop a list of for
   species such as amberjack and snowy grouper. An possible locations for
   MPA sites. Pictured here are members from area off of Hobe Sound that
   includes three reefs and South Carolina (L-R), Reese Hair, Mark
   Marhefka (Chairman), Mel spawning aggregations of grouper and mutton
   snapper Bell, Dr. George Sedberry, Dr. William Anderson and Frank
   Gibson (seated). remains on the list. Further north, an area 8 miles
   off of Ten areas were suggested by the Advisory Panel for Sebastian
   known as "The Pines" is still being considered consideration off of
   South Carolina, but because only the as a possible site along with a
   relatively small area known coordinates were outlined, the Council has
   asked that as the "Peanut Oculina" northeast of Ft. Pierce, where gag
   further rationale be given from the MPA Advisory Panel grouper and
   amberjack are known to aggregate. A before these areas are reviewed.
   recommendation to extend the currently protected Oculina Bank habitat
   area off of Ft. Pierce northward to North Off the coast of Georgia,
   four deepwater areas remain on Carolina was removed. The suggested "Red
   Snapper the list for consideration including portions of the Sink" area
   outside of St. Augustine was modified and "Charleston Bump" off Georgia
   (not to include the remains on the list while two suggested reef areas,
   current wreckfish fishing grounds, or would make an Blackmar andTanzar
   Reefs, off Jacksonville were allowance for fishing for wreckfish).
   However, the Council removed. removed the suggested area within the
   Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary (GRNMS) from the list and Snapper
   Grouper Management: Why MPAs? As mandated by Congress, the South
   Atlantic Fishery Management Council is responsible for the management
   and conservation of fish stocks found in federal waters from three to
   200 miles offshore. Using traditional management tools - such as
   minimum size limits, commercial trip limits, recreational bag limits,
   seasonal closures and permit restrictions - the Council has been
   successful in the management of a number of species such as king and
   Spanish mackerel. However, for some of the 73 different species that
   make up the snapper grouper management complex, similar measures have
   not been as successful. While 18 species in the complex are not
   currently considered overfished, 15 species are, including several
   long-lived, deepwater species. Perhaps more importantly, the status is
   listed as "unknown" (there are no stock assessments) for the remaining
   40 species on the list including hogfish, tomtates, mahogany snapper,
   silk snapper, yellowmouth grouper, misty grouper and lesser amberjack.
   Since the Council developed the Snapper Grouper Fishery Management Plan
   in 1983, a total of 12 Amendments have been added to the plan,
   establishing an extensive series of regulations. The Council is
   considering MPAs as an additional tool to aid in rebuilding these
   overfished species. 4 The South Atlantic Update July 2001 Joint
   Advisory Panel Meetings to Address MPAs: A joint meeting of several of
   the Council's Advisory Panels will take place in Charleston, SC August
   28-30. Approximately 75 advisory panel members will meet to review the
   MPA site list and make further recommenda- tions for the Council to
   consider. The meetings will be held at the Town & Country Inn, 2008
   Savannah High- way, Charleston, SC 29407; phone: 800/334-6660. The
   general schedule is listed below. For additional informa- tion, contact
   the Council office at 843/571-4366. August 28 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
   Habitat AP August 29 8:30 a.m. to noon Habitat and Coral AP August 29
   noon to 5:30 p.m. MPA, Snapper Grouper, Law Enforcement, Wreckfish,
   Habitat and Coral Advisory Panels August 30 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
   Joint meeting continues August 31 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. MPA Committee
   Meeting All meetings are open to the public. Approximate Timeline for
   Actions Regarding MPAs: August 28-30, 2001 - Joint Advisory Panel
   Meeting Summer/Fall 2002: Final round of public hearings. in
   Charleston, SC to review current proposed listing The public would be
   presented with the final list of of sites and make recommendations. The
   MPA proposed sites and a complete analysis of the sites proposed.
   Committee (consisting of a sub-group of Council members) will meet on
   August 31 to review the AP Following the 2002 Public Hearings:
   recommendations and develop the Committee's recommendations for
   consideration by the Snapper Advisory panel members will review both
   rounds of Grouper Committee at the Council's September public hearing
   comments and make recommendations meeting. prior to the Council taking
   action. September 17-21, 2001 Council Meeting - The Council could reach
   a final decision in September or Charleston, SC: Snapper Grouper
   Committee will December 2002. If approved, the MPA Amendment to develop
   recommendations to the Council to revise the the Snapper Grouper FMP
   would be submitted to the list of areas (based on preliminary analysis
   by staff Secretary of Commerce for approval within the first six and
   advisory panels) for development of an options months of 2003. paper.
   Council will act on the Snapper Grouper Committee recommendations.
   December 3-7, 2001 Council Meeting - Wrightsville Types of Marine
   Protected Areas Beach, NC: Snapper Grouper Committee will review Being
   Considered: and approve options for the first round of public hearings.
   Council will act on the Snapper Grouper Type 1 - Permanent closure/ no
   take Committee recommendations. Type 2 - Permanent closure/ some take
   allowed Spring 2002: First round of public hearings begin Type 3 -
   Limited duration closure/no take in March to gather information from
   the public on (could include spawning area closures) specific sites for
   further Council analysis. Type 4 - Limited duration closure/some take
   allowed (could also include spawning area Summer 2002: The Council will
   review public closures) comment and make any modifications as
   necessary. The South Atlantic Update July 2001 5 License Limitation for
   Rock Shrimp Fishery Moves Forward During the June Council meeting, a
   joint meeting was held with members of the Council's Controlled Access
   Committee and the Rock Shrimp Advisory Panel (AP) to review and discuss
   Amendment 5 to the Shrimp Fishery Management Plan (FMP). This proposed
   amendment would establish a license limitation program for the rock
   shrimp fishery and other gear/equipment requirements. Fishermen and
   industry representatives currently involved Georgia/South Carolina
   State line. Other requirements in harvesting rock shrimp, including
   members of the AP, include operator permits, a minimum mesh size for
   tail have requested the limited access program to address bags on
   trawls and the use of a Vessel Monitoring System. concerns over the
   number of latent rock shrimp fishery The amendment will now undergo a
   draft supplemental permits and the number of new entrants attracted
   into the Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIS). The Council fishery by
   high prices in 2000. There are currently over will consider the SEIS
   comments on specific measures 400 permits issued for the rock shrimp
   fishery in the South and these proposed actions will be finalized at
   the Atlantic. Advisory Panel members believe the industry September
   Council meeting in Charleston. Amendment can sustain at most 150
   vessels and still maintain optimum 5 to the Shrimp FMP would then be
   submitted to the yield for the specialized fishery. Secretary of
   Commerce for approval. Eight public hearings regarding Amendment 5 were
   held Jake Flowers, Chairman of the Rock Shrimp AP stated, along the
   Atlantic and Gulf coasts beginning in May, "I've always been against
   limited entry. I still am. But concluding with a final public hearing
   during the June this is the only tool I see to manage this fishery
   now." Council meeting. After reviewing public comment, the Flowers
   continued, "If we don't take this opportunity to Committee and Advisory
   Panel discussed several options make some tough decisions, we may look
   back 5 years in regards to limiting access to the fishery. During the
   from now with regrets." discussion some Council members expressed
   concern over the need to establish a license limitation program. A
   detailed listing of the motions regarding the Following a lengthy
   discussion, the Committee Council's actions can be found on the web at
   recommended and the Council approved measures that www.safmc.net or by
   contacting the Council office at would establish a license limitation
   program south of the 843/571-4366. Commerce Secretary Evans Announces
   Council Appointments Two New Members Appointed to the South Atlantic
   Fishery Management Council Secretary of Commerce Don Evans recently
   announced the appointment of 18 members to the eight regional fishery
   management Councils in the U.S. The appointments include two new
   appointments to the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council
   representing the states of North Carolina and South Carolina. Council
   members are nominated by the governors of the affected states to serve
   three-year terms and may serve no more than three consecutive terms.
   The members will begin their terms August 11, 2001 and their terms on
   the Council will run through August 10, 2004. Robert Louis Southerland,
   a commercial fisherman for the past 30 years, joins the Council as a
   North Carolina representative. As a full-time shrimp fisherman from
   Wilmington, Mr. Southerland has been a member of the N.C. Marine
   Fisheries Commission since 1998 and serves as co-chair of the
   Crustacean Advisory Committee. He also serves on the N.C. Marine
   Fisheries Licensing Eligibility Board and chairs the Commission's
   nominating committee. Active as a consultant to the Gulf & South
   Atlantic Fisheries Foundation, he has also found time in the past to
   serve as past Vice-Chairman and board member of the N.C. Fisheries
   Association. This past year, Mr. Southerland was appointed to serve on
   the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council's Shrimp Advisory Panel.
   Henry Ellis "Pete" Pearce, Jr. is an avid recreational fisherman and
   was appointed to the Council to serve as a South Carolina
   representative. Living in Myrtle Beach, S.C. has afforded Mr. Pearce an
   opportunity to pursue his passion for fishing along with his commitment
   to public service. As a corporate businessman, Mr. Pearce served on the
   Myrtle Beach City Council from 1978 to 1982. In 1983 he was elected to
   serve in the South Carolina House of 6 The South Atlantic Update July
   2001 (New Council Members Continued) Representatives, where he served
   as Chairman of the of both the Controlled Access Committee and the
   Snapper Agricultural Committee from 1987-88. During that time he
   Grouper Committee, he has been a leader in dealing with worked closely
   on matters concerning the S.C. Department several complex fisheries
   management issues. of Natural Resources. Mr. Pearce has also been an
   active member of the S.C. Coastal Council and served on the Mr. Pearce
   replaces Charles Stone as the Council Harry Hampton Foundation Board, a
   fund raising representative from South Carolina. Owner and operator
   organization for natural resource protection. of Marlin Quay Marina in
   Murrells Inlet, Charles has also served on the Council for two
   consecutive terms. An Mr. Southerland will be replacing Council member
   Jodie experienced businessman and fisherman, Charles served Gay, a
   commercial snapper grouper fisherman from as Chairman of the Law
   Enforcement Committee and as Hampstead, North Carolina. Jodie has
   served on the a member of the Spiny Lobster, King & Spanish Mackerel,
   Council for the past 6 years (two consecutive terms), HMS, and Bluefish
   Committees. He has been an active actively representing both the
   resources and fishermen of and productive Council member. his state. He
   has served on several Council committees including Marine Protected
   Area, Dolphin Wahoo, Calico We will all miss Jodie and Charles.
   Scallop, Law Enforcement and AP Selection. As Chairman South Atlantic
   Fishery Management Council Meeting Acronyms September 17-21, 2001 ACCSP
   - Atlantic Coast Cooperative Town & Country Inn Statistics Program 2008
   Savannah Highway AP - Advisory Panel Charleston, SC 29407 843/571-1000
   or 1-800/334-6660 ASMFC - Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission
   For a detailed agenda contact the Council office at 843/571-4366. The
   agenda is also available on the Council's web site www.safmc.net BRD -
   Bycatch Reduction Device CPUE - Catch Per Unit Effort EEZ - Exclusive
   Economic Zone ANNOUNCEMENT: TWO POSITIONS AVAILABLE EFH - Essential
   Fish Habitat TITLE: Environmental Impact Scientist EFH/HAPC - Essential
   Fish Habitat/Habitat Area of Particular Concern TITLE: Protected
   Resources Scientist FMP - Fishery Management Plan CLOSING DATE FOR
   APPLICATIONS: August 15, 2001 HMS - Highly Migratory Species POSITION
   LOCATION: South Atlantic Fishery Management Council Office, Charleston,
   South Carolina. ITQ - Individual Transferable Quota SALARY RANGE:
   $43,326 - $56,322 (Starting salary negotiable based on MSY - Maximum
   Sustainable Yield successful applicant's qualifications.) MRFSS -
   Marine Recreational Fishing Statistics Survey DUTIES: Contact the
   Council office or go online at www.safmc.net. NMFS - National Marine
   Fisheries Service QUALIFICATIONS: Contact the Council office or go
   online at www.safmc.net. OY - Optimum Yield SPECIAL CONDITIONS: Two
   year + appointments. Funding for these positions has been secured
   through December 31, 2003. However, it is the Council's intent to SSC -
   Scientific & Statistical Committee pursue funding to make these
   permanent staff positions. SFA - Sustainable Fisheries Act APPLACTIONS:
   By August 15, 2001, interested persons must submit a complete resume,
   list of references and examples of technical documents, studies and/or
   TAC - Total Allowable Catch publications authored to: Robert K. Mahood,
   Executive Director, SAFMC, 1 Southpark Circle, Suite 306, Charleston,
   S.C. 29407-4699. VMS - Vessel Monitoring System The South Atlantic
   Update July 2001 7 Mark Your Calendar South Atlantic August 14-16 Mid
   Atlantic Council Meeting, Philadelphia, PA Fishery Mangament August
   19-23 American Fisheries Society Annual Meeting, Phoenix, AZ Council
   Meeting www.fisheries.org September 17- 21, August 28-30 SAFMC Joint AP
   Meeting, Charleston, SC 2001 Charleston, SC September 10-14 Gulf of
   Mexico Fishery Management Council Meeting New Orleans, LA September 11
   ICATT Advisory Committee Meeting, Charleston, SC Contact Rachel Husted
   at rachel.husted@noaa.gov September 17-21 South Atlantic Fishery
   Mangement Council Meeting, Charleston, SC Notice! New Technical Level
   Positions Available at SAFMC. Deadline for Applications is August 15,
   2001 (page 7) New Advisory Panel Members Needed - Applications Due
   August 23, 2001 (page 3) Visit the Council's Web Site at www.safmc.net
   8 The South Atlantic Update July 2001
