http://education.arc.nasa.gov/pages/edresources.html



   Ames Research Center Education banner

   Link to Calendar of Events
   Link to Just for Students
   Link to Educator Resources and Workshops
   Link to Educational Technology
   Link to Events and Special Programs
   Link to Volunteer Program
   Link to Employment and Professional Development
   Link to NASA Education Connection
   Link to Visiting Ames Research Center
   Link to Contacts and Feedback
   Link to Site Directory
   Link to Ames Education Home Page
   Educator Resources / Workshops
   Bring the excitement of NASA science into your learning environment
   through the vast variety of materials and programs available at NASA
   Ames.

   Educational Materials

                                     Student Programs and Activities

   Educator Workshops and Conferences

                                     Teacher/Faculty Enrichment

   Educational Materials
   Ames Imaging Library Server (AILS) is a living library of still images
   that chronicle the projects and activities of the NASA Ames Research
   Center. This site also provides links to other NASA image Web sites.
   An Associate of Arts in Community Colleges for Training in Earth
   Science (ACTES) is a collaboration between the College of San Mateo
   (CSM) and NASA Ames Research Center. The project established an Earth
   Science Department at CSM through which an AA degree is offered and
   from which course credits can be transferred to senior universities.
   The courses use remote-sensing data collected by NASA Earth scientists
   and teach data visualization, geographic information systems, and
   global positioning technology. These courses, data and other curriculum
   materials are available to community colleges via the Web. Contact:
   Kenneth Kennedy; William Runberg or Jay Skiles.
   Central Operation of Resources for Educators (CORE) serves as the
   worldwide distributor for NASA-produced multimedia materials. This
   includes a catalog of more than 200 videocassette, slide and CD-ROM
   programs.
   Educational Technology Ames offers a variety of educational CD-ROM's
   and Internet sites all described on this page.
   Educator Resource Center (ERC) provides educators with NASA related
   instructional materials suitable for use in the classroom. Much of the
   material is free; videotapes and slides may be copied. Resources
   include: curriculum materials, classroom activities, Internet access,
   lesson plans, computer programs, videos, 35 mm slides and publications.
   Contact ERC (650) 604-3574.
   Publication Distribution Program is a mail order service to provide
   teachers and students publications addressing their questions on NASA
   related resources. The service also provides classroom kits for
   elementary and secondary teachers. Contact: Astrid Terlep (650)
   604-3347.
   Science Education Academy of the Bay Area (SEABA) is a consortium of
   Bay Area research facilities, universities and school districts which
   establish standards, maintain information resources and conduct teacher
   training programs for the region. SEABA has established an electronic
   database for K-12 educational programs and services.
   SOFIA's Education Program will include activities for a wide range of
   participants, including K-14 students and teachers, textbook authors
   and curriculum developers, faculty and students in schools of
   education, and professional societies in science and education. A
   unique and important element SOFIA Education Program will be the
   Teacher Flight Program, which will provide opportunities for teachers
   to fly aboard the observatory, experience the research environment
   firsthand, interact closely with SOFIA science teams. As the
   observatory is still under development, the SOFIA Education Program is
   currently supported at a minimum level. SOFIA is expected to start
   science flights in 2002, and the SOFIA Education Program will become
   fully active at that time. Contact Edna Devore: (650) 604-2130 Michael
   Bennett: (650) 604-2128.
   Space Link is the official home to the NASA Education Division’s
   electronic publications and NASA Television’s education schedule. It is
   also your guide to NASA’s Internet resources with hundreds of subject
   oriented pages and the capability to search all of NASA.
   STELLAR has a Web site: which contains over 60 activities in both
   English and Spanish. It has produced two CD's Heart in Space and
   Vestibular System. It has also produced two editions of Space Life
   Express. Contact: Sonya Cardenas STELLAR Program Director. Tel: (650)
   604-1866 Fax: (650) 604-2112.
   Teacher Institute The Teacher Institute will provide professional
   development opportunities for K-12 teachers of science, mathematics and
   technology. The Institute will include the NASA Academy, which will
   team the knowledge of NASA scientists and engineers with the
   pedagogical knowledge of master teachers to provide interdisciplinary,
   laboratory-based professional development courses. It will also feature
   NASA Curriculum Online which will bring the exciting story of NASA
   research projects to teachers as these stories unfold.
   Understanding the Biosphere from the Top Down This Web site contains 22
   lesson plans for grades (4-12) written by teachers with the supervision
   of Ames Earth Science personnel. The lessons help students to learn
   about the Earth's system as NASA scientists do by studying the Earth
   from the perspective of space, the top down. After using these lessons
   students will have a preliminary understanding of remote sensing what
   data and imagery gathered by satellites and aircraft are like. These
   lessons can be accessed online at the Top Down Web site. Top Down
   contact is Jay Skiles .

   TOP
   Student Programs and Activities
   Aeronautics Education Lab (AEL) Ames is planning to host one of these
   popular state-of-the-art classrooms that brings new technologies to
   excite students in grades 7-9 about science and math. In 10 unique
   workstations, visitors can explore these technologies through hands
   on/minds on activities that model real-world challenges in aviation.
   Aerospace Education Services Program (AESP) is a program in which
   Aerospace Education Specialists provides school-based programs and
   services at school sites which include: staff development programs,
   lecture-demonstration programs for students and faculty, and curriculum
   development projects. The content includes earth science, space
   science, life science and aerospace transportation research and
   development discoveries and future plans. Due to the immense popularity
   of this program, a visit should be requested well in advance. There is
   no charge to schools for this program. Contact Dinah Showman (650)
   604-6077.
   Ames Aerospace Encounter (AAE) is a unique program that hosts fourth,
   fifth and sixth grade classes in an interactive, hands-on experience
   designed to teach students about science, mathematics and technology.
   The encounter involves students in activities focused on four areas:
   aeronautics, space science, space station, and mission control/ earth
   science. There is no charge for this program. This popular half-day
   experience should be requested well in advance, as the program books up
   very quickly. To apply for visits in the school year, applications can
   be requested beginning in May of the previous school year. To apply for
   visits in the summer, applications can be requested in April. Visit the
   scheduling page or Contact: Encounter (650) 604-1110 for an
   application.
   Events and Special Programs Ames offers many annual events and special
   programs that involve student participation.
   NASA Quest connects K-12 schools with NASA’s people via the Internet
   through Web chats, webcasts, e-mail, informative biographies and
   journals, curriculum resources and more. NASA Quest offers the
   opportunity to communicate with NASA scientists and researchers and to
   experience the excitement of real NASA research as it is happening. To
   participate in this science in action, visit the NASA Quest Web site.
   Robotics Education Program (REP) is your NASA source for K-12 robotics
   education. REP organizes robotics competitions and will be offering
   online robotics courses and labs for credit in the future. Contact Joe
   Hering (650) 604-2008.
   Rock-It Science's mission is to promote science to elementary school
   children. Rock-It Science builds on children's natural enthusiasm to
   learn by providing students creative, interesting and challenging
   learning experience. If classes are unable to visit NASA Ames Research
   Center, the prototype Mobile Science Classroom brings cool science
   lessons directly to schools. Contact John McChesney or Ron Atchison
   (408) 296-4465.
   Speaker’s Bureau provides speakers to educational institutions,
   business organizations, service clubs and professional and technical
   societies to speak on NASA and Ames Research Center programs. There is
   no fee for this service; however, reimbursement for transportation and
   per diem may be necessary. Please make requests at least six weeks in
   advance. Contact: Sheila Johnson (650) 604-5054.

   TOP
   Educator Workshops and Conferences

   Aerospace Education Services Program (AESP ) is a program in which
   Aerospace Education Specialists provides school-based programs and
   services at school sites which include: staff development programs,
   lecture-demonstration programs for students and faculty, and curriculum
   development projects. The content includes earth science, space
   science, life science and aerospace transportation research and
   development discoveries and future plans. Due to the immense popularity
   of this program, a visit should be requested well in advance. There is
   no charge to schools for this program. Contact Diana Showman
   (dshowman@mail.arc.nasa.gov) (650) 604-6077.
   Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE)
   Training is a worldwide science and education program coordinating the
   work of students, teachers and scientists to study and understand the
   global environment. NASA Ames supports GLOBE by offering four days of
   training to equip area K-12 teachers who want to participate in this
   program. Once trained in this program, teachers involve their students
   in the collection of environmental data such as precipitation, soil
   samples and cloud cover. Students send their data via the Internet, and
   the data are made available to environmental scientists around the
   world. Contact Bonnie Samuelson (650) 604-6355.
   JASON Teacher Workshops JASON is a unique collaboration that utilizes
   telepresence technology to enable grade 3-9 classrooms to join in on
   and interact with ongoing research missions of the JASON team. Before
   implementing curriculum in the classroom and bringing students to Ames
   for the exciting broadcast and hands-on activities in the Spring,
   teachers must attend a one-day training in the Fall. Contact: Tom
   Clausen (650) 604-5544.
   Lunar Sample Certification is a two-hour workshop conducted at NASA
   Ames or at a school site that certifies and prepares teachers to use
   lunar rock samples for educational activities. This session includes
   instructional activities and security requirements. Contact: ERC (650)
   604-3574.
   NASA Education Workshops (NEW) are two-week residential summer
   workshops at each NASA Center for K-12 educators. The workshops offer
   the opportunity to observe NASA's state-of-the-art research and
   development through direct interaction with NASA scientist, engineers,
   technicians and educational specialists. Ames hosts two workshops each
   summer, one of which focuses on educators in rural areas. Contact: Tom
   Clausen (650) 604-5544.

   NASA Educational Workshop (Rural Initiative) is a NEW workshop which
   focuses on rural populations, and more specifically, K-12 educators of
   American Indian students. Contact Bonnie Samuelson (650) 604-6355.

   Science Education Academy of the Bay Area (SEABA) is a consortium of
   Bay Area research facilities, universities and school districts which
   establish standards, maintain information resources and conduct teacher
   training programs for the region. SEABA has established an electronic
   database for K-12 educational programs and services.
   Space Down to Earth is an accredited one-week summer
   teacher/administrator workshop in cooperation with San Jose State
   University at Ames Research Center focusing on NASA/Ames research,
   facilities and NASA educational opportunities. Contact Donald G. James
   (djames@mail.arc.nasa.gov) (650) 604-4967
   STELLAR is a (K-14) teacher program that uses the excitement of Space
   Life Science research and technology to produce teaching materials and
   to enhance teacher training. 16 (Core) participants spend five weeks,
   and one workshop a month during the school year here at NASA Ames
   Research Center. Half of the time is spent working in research
   laboratories and the remaining time is devoted to developing curriculum
   support material. 30 additional teachers (Associates) also participate
   for 3 days in the summer and one workshop a month during the school
   year. STELLAR hosts over 16 workshops throughout the year in addition
   to summer program. Contact: Sonya Cardenas STELLAR Program Director.
   Tel: (650) 604-1866. Fax: (650) 604 2112.
   Technology Learning Center for Teachers (TLC) offers regularly
   scheduled teacher workshops at Ames featuring the various educational
   multimedia programs developed by the Ames Educational Multimedia Team.
   The workshops include an overview of the science involved, working
   familiarity with the technology being used, demonstration of the
   supplemental print material’s classroom usage and a facility tour.
   Contact: Tom Clausen (650) 604-5544.

   TOP
   Teacher / Faculty Enrichment
   Augmented Learning Environment and Renewable Teaching (ALERT) is a
   program targeted to California State University professors who teach
   Earth Science to pre-service and in-service teachers. These professors
   spend two consecutive summers at NASA Ames Research Center or at the
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena where they work with NASA
   researchers on NASA projects. These professors then transfer the
   techniques that they learn to future and current K-12 teachers through
   the University courses that they offer. Contact: Elizabeth Ambos;
   Edward Ng or Jay Skiles
   Industry Initiatives for Science and Math Education (IISME) provides
   opportunities for teachers to gain firsthand experience in industry and
   research environments by working with professionals in math- and
   science- related fields in the summer. The program also provides
   resources and support for teachers to translate their experiences into
   specific mechanisms for enhancing classroom instruction, career
   counseling for students and ongoing professional development during the
   academic year. Contact: Donald G. James (650) 604-4967.
   Native American Earth and Space Academy This initiative has the goal of
   enhancing the scientific literacy of Native American students. The
   program will bring together local community colleges with NASA
   expertise in earth and space science, and telecommunications
   technologies. Contact: Rose Grymes

   TOP

                     [Calendar of Ames Education Events]

                             [Just for Students]

                       [Educator Resources/Workshops]

                          [Educational Technology]

                         [Events/ Special Programs]

                             [Volunteer Program]

                   [Employment & Professional Development]

                         [NASA Education Connection]

                               [Visiting Ames]

                           [Contacts and Feedback]

                              [Site Directory]

                            [NASA Ames Home Page]

                        [NASA Headquarters Home Page]

                          [NASA HQ Education Home]

                    [NASA Education Implementation Plan]
     __________________________________________________________________

                       Web site Curator: Mary Valleau
                 Responsible NASA Official: Donald G. James
