http://kcfeb.gsa.gov/febbylaws.htm

                                [febseal.gif]


                 GREATER KANSAS CITY FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD

                           CONSTITUTION AND BYLAWS


   ARTICLE I        NAME

                   The name of this organization shall be the Greater
   Kansas City Federal Executive Board, hereinafter referred to as the
   FEB.

   ARTICLE II        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

   Sec. 1       Federal Executive Boards were established by direction of
   the President in a memorandum to heads of departments and agencies
   dated November 10, 1961, and a memorandum to the Director, Bureau of
   the Budget, dated August 13, 1969.

   Sec. 2
   Consistent with the range of authority and discretion which board
   members hold by delegation from superiors in their respective agencies,
   it shall be the purpose of the FEB to initiate improved coordination of
   Governmental activity within Kansas City and the immediate vicinity
   through cooperative action among field establishments in the areas of
   Government-wide policy implementation service to the community and
   improving the quality of the Federal Government service.

   Sec. 3
   From time to time, and under the guidance of the Director, Office of
   Personnel Management, the FEB shall direct its cooperative activity to
   specific programs concerning presidential policies of general
   application.

   ARTICLE III        MEMBERSHIP

   Sec. 1
   Membership of the FEB shall consist of the head of field establishments
   located in Kansas City and the immediate vicinity as designated by the
   head of his or her department or agency. At the discretion of the
   Executive Committee, associate members, (non federal governmental
   agencies) may be allowable.

   Sec. 2
   Board members may designate an alternate to participate in board
   meetings and activities when the principal is not available.

   Sec. 3
   Board members will designate officials and employees on their staff to
   participate in activities undertaken by the board or work on committees
   under the Board. Such assignments will not constitute membership on the
   FEB.

   Sec. 4
   Voting privileges in meetings of the FEB shall be restricted to the
   members or, in their absence, their designated alternates.

   ARTICLE IV        OFFICERS AND ELECTIONS

   Sec. 1
   The OFFICERS of the FEB shall be:

                                 Chairperson

                           First Vice-Chairperson

                           Second Vice-Chairperson

                           Third Vice-Chairperson

                   EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

             Nine Executive Committee Members are to be elected

                   DESIGNATED MEMBERS

                         Regional Administrator, GSA

                        Service Center Director, OPM

                   Member Representing the Funding Agency

                            Outgoing Chairperson

                         Immediate Past Chairperson

                     The staff will consist of an Executive Director and
   Secretary, provided by the designated agency. The agency or department
   will also provide a reasonable operating budget.

   Sec. 2        The term of office for the Chairperson, First, Second and
   Third Vice-Chairperson shall be for one year. These officers may be
   reelected.

   Sec. 3
   The term of office for the elected members of the Executive Committee
   shall be three years.

   Sec. 4
   Elections shall be held annually in July at a regular meeting of the
   FEB. Officers will assume their duties October 1. The Executive
   Committee shall fill the unexpired terms of all vacancies of the
   officers of the FEB from the membership.

                      It shall be the duty of the Chairperson to appoint a
   nominating committee of not less than five members who place in
   nomination one or more names for each elective office. In order to
   permit full consideration of the candidates, a listing of the nominees
   will be transmitted to the members with the notice of the meeting at
   which the election will be held. After formal presentation of the
   nominations at the meeting, the Chairperson will provide an opportunity
   for additional nominations from the floor.

   Sec. 5        Elections shall be by ballot. In all instances, the
   candidate receiving the greatest number of votes for an office shall be
   declared elected to the office. If, however, there is only one
   candidate for an office, the ballot may be dispensed by unanimous
   consent.

   ARTICLE V        DUTIES OF OFFICERS

   Sec. 1
   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the FEB, and appoint
   First, Second and Third Vice-Chairpersons to chair standing and ad hoc
   committees. Call special meetings as may be required, and act as
   spokesperson for the FEB on all occasions. The Chairperson shall
   function as Chairperson of the Executive Committee.

   Sec. 2
   The First Vice-Chairperson shall preside at meetings in the absence of
   the Chairperson and shall succeed him or her in case of a vacancy.

   Second and Third Vice-Chairpersons
   shall function as directed by the Chairperson.

   Sec. 3
   The FEB staff prepares notices of all meetings, prepares and keeps the
   minutes of all meetings, conducts the routine correspondence of the
   FEB, and keeps such records as may be required.

   Sec. 4
   The Executive Committee shall seek ways and means to undertake with
   diligence and serious purpose those activities in the areas of
   Government-wide policy implementation, service to the community, and
   improving the quality of the Federal Government service, that will best
   contribute to the effectiveness and economy of government operations in
   Kansas City and vicinity.

   ARTICLE VI        MEETINGS

                   Four or more meetings per year of the full FEB will be
   held upon notice by the Chairperson.

   ARTICLE VII        ANNUAL WORK PLAN

                   For each fiscal year, the Chairperson, in consultation
   with the Executive Committee, shall prepare a plan of objectives of the
   FEB for the ensuing year and activities and projects in the areas of
   Government-wide policy implementation, service to the community and
   improving the quality of the objectives. Committee Chairpersons with
   the approval of the Executive Committee may make changes in their work
   plans after plans are approved and submitted.

   ARTICLE VIII        REPORTS

                   The Chairperson,
   in consultation with the Executive Committee, shall prepare an annual
   report of the accomplishments and progress for the prior fiscal year in
   relation to the annual work plan referred to in Article VII.

   ARTICLE IX         AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION

                   Amendments to the Constitution and Bylaws shall be
   referred to the Executive Committee, and upon a favorable report by
   that Committee, shall be submitted by mail to the members for their
   approval and adopted with the concurrence of the majority of those
   replying.

   [febbyl3.jpg]
