http://fim.nimh.nih.gov/intro.html

   [labLayer1.gif]

   The Unit on Functional Imaging Methods (FIM) in the Laboratory of Brain
   and Cognition
   at the National Institute of Mental Health has four themes, all aimed
   at increasing the utility and interpretability of functional magnetic
   resonance imaging (fMRI).

   The first theme involves quantitative characterization of the neuronal,
   physiologic, and biophysical processes that contribute to blood
   oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) and perfusion-based contrast in
   fMRI. This also includes research on how these relevant variables vary
   over space, time, and between subjects. A practical goal of this
   research is to increase the temporal resolution, spatial resolution,
   and interpretability of fMRI through understanding the
   "neuronal-hemodynamic transfer function" more fully.

   The second theme involves tailoring specific neuroscience questions to
   unique characteristics of fMRI processing and acquisition. Examples of
   this are development and optimization of event-related and
   free-behavior fMRI paradigms in the context of understanding attention,
   memory, learning, and mood.

   The third theme involves the development of pulse sequences, hardware,
   and processing techniques toward the direction of increased fMRI
   utility.

   The fourth theme involves the exploration of the measurement and
   quantification of previously unmeasured neuronal or physiological
   processes by MRI.

   The Functional MRI Core Facility is committed to creating and
   maintaining a cutting edge fMRI facility that consists of two GE 3T
   scanners and one Bruker 4.7 T 60 cm bore primate scanner.
   The intent of this website is to inform interested parties of the fMRI
   research activities in our unit. We have included some links to
   relevant non-governmental sites related to fMRI research, but disclaim
   any responsibility for, or control over, their content. For further
   information, please view the NIMH disclaimer.
