http://www.gao.gov/main.html

                             Top Navigation Bar

                                  GAO Logo

     The General Accounting Office is the investigative arm of Congress.
     GAO exists to support the Congress in meeting its Constitutional
     responsibilities and to help improve the performance and
     accountability of the federal government for the American people.
     GAO examines the use of public funds, evaluates federal programs and
     activities, and provides analyses, options, recommendations, and
     other assistance to help the Congress make effective oversight,
     policy, and funding decisions. In this context, GAO works to
     continuously improve the economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of
     the federal government through financial audits, program reviews and
     evaluations, analyses, legal opinions, investigations, and other
     services. GAO's activities are designed to ensure the executive
     branch's accountability to the Congress under the Constitution and
     the government's accountability to the American people. GAO is
     dedicated to good government through its commitment to the core
     values of accountability, integrity, and reliability.

     NOTE: The public entrance to GAO's Document Distribution Center has
   been closed. To obtain hard copies of GAO reports order them on the web
                      site or telephone (202)512-6000.

   From the Comptroller General
   David M. Walker, Comptroller General

   GAO Reports
   Updated daily. "Today's Reports," Special Collections including
   Terrorism, Homeland Security, GAO Strategic Plan, Performance Reports.
   Subscribe to e-mail alerts for newly released products including new
   lists by topic. New!

   Order GAO Products
   Order printed copies of GAO reports. Request reference services.

   Other Publications
   Policy, The Yellow Book, Methodology, Guidance, Financial Report of the
   U.S.Government.

   Employment Opportunities
   Current job vacancies, recruitment information, Teams and Offices
   within GAO.

   About GAO
   GAO's mission, history, plans and performance, access to records,
   organization, and photographs.

   Help Using This Site
   How to find reports, help for the visually disabled, privacy policy.

   For the Press
   Reporter's Guide, Subscribe to daily e-mail alert, Public Affairs
   contacts. Government Auditing Standards: Amendment No. 3, Independence
   New!

   GAO Legal Products
   Updated daily. Legal decisions and opinions about appropriations, and
   bid protests, and major federal agency rules. New! GAO's Bid Protest
   Docket - Information about current and recently closed bid protests.

   GAO's Performance and Accountability Series and High Risk Update
   Released January 17, 2001. Briefing talking points.

   GAO Congressional and Presidential Transition Effort
   GAO products about federal agencies' operations, challenges, and recent
   performance.

   FraudNet
   Report allegations of fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement of federal
   funds.

   Commercial Activities Panel
   A group formed to study the Federal Government's policies and
   procedures on outsourcing.

   Market Mechanisms for Student Loans
   A Study Group sponsored jointly by the General Accounting Office and
   the Department of Education.

                                     ---

                                 Three coins
   Collectible Coins Issued: Mint releases coins to commemorate 200 years
         of Capitol history and help build a Capitol Visitor Center.

                                     ---

                     Mail us with questions or comments
