http://www.fvap.ncr.gov/fvap.html

   Banner Stating: Meet the FVAP

   The Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) administers the federal
   responsibilities of the Presidential designee (Secretary of Defense),
   under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA)
   of 1986. The Act covers more than six million potential voters. The
   FVAP has three distinct goals. These are to:
    1. inform and educate U.S. citizens worldwide of their right to vote;
    2. foster voting participation; and
    3. protect the integrity of, and simultaneously enhance, the electoral
       process at the Federal, State and local levels.

   The FVAP provides U.S. citizens worldwide a broad range of non-partisan
   information and assistance to facilitate their participation in the
   democratic process - regardless of where they work or live.

   The FVAP is responsible for administering the Uniformed and Overseas
   Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) . The UOCAVA requires that the
   states and territories allow certain U.S. citizens, as defined below,
   to register and vote absentee in elections for Federal office. These
   groups include:
     * members of the Uniformed Services (including Army, Navy, Air Force,
       Marine Corps, Coast Guard)
     * Merchant Marine
     * Eligible family members of the above
     * Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, and Commissioned
       Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
     * U.S. citizens employed by the Federal Government residing outside
       the U.S., and
     * All other private U.S. citizens residing outside the U.S.

   Some states and territories also allow citizens covered by the UOCAVA
   to register and vote in state and local elections as well. The
   Secretary of Defense as the Presidential designee is responsible for
   the Federal functions of the UOCAVA which includes "Executive Branch
   Oversight" for the administration of Act.
   More information on the UOCAVA can be found in Appendix E of the Voting
   Assistance Guide.

   The FVAP also acts on behalf of the Secretary of Defense to administer
   the Federal responsibilities of the National Voter Registration Act
   (NVRA), which designates armed forces recruiting offices nationwide as
   voter registration agencies allowing eligible U.S. citizens to apply
   for voter registration, or apply to change voter registration data, at
   6000 Armed Forces Recruitment Offices nationwide.

   We accomplish our mission by providing services to:
     * 70,000 military Voting Assistance Officers (VAOs) around the globe
     * more than 250 Embassy and Consulate VAOs
     * hundreds of state officials
     * nearly 13,000 local government officials
     * hundreds of representatives of worldwide organizations and
       corporations
     * personnel at 6,000 Armed Forces Recruiting Offices, and
     * all citizens eligible to apply for voter registration, or change
       voter registration data at Armed Forces Recruitment Offices.
     * In all, these total approximately 190 million U.S. citizens of
       voting age.

   The Federal Voting Assistance Program can be reached at:
   Director
   Federal Voting Assistance Program
   Office of the Secretary of Defense
   Washington Headquarters Services
   1155 Defense Pentagon
   Washington, D.C. 20301-1155
   FVAP Fax (703) 588-0108
   Email vote@fvap.ncr.gov
   Toll-free 800-438-8683
   Toll free numbers from 59 countries.

   FVAP Home Page
   Home          Index
                 Index     contact FVAP
                           Contact Us
