http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov/nasa-nde/pump/piezopump.html

   [Image4.gif] PIEZOPUMP

The NDEAA's piezoelectric peristaltic pump

   Dr. Yoseph Bar-Cohen and Dr. Zensheu Chang, JPL, Section 354

   This website describes the Piezopump of the JPL's NDEAA Group

   [Piezopump-small.jpg] [Image3.gif]

   There is a range of NASA experiments, instruments and applications
   where miniature pumps are needed.   To address such needs, a
   piezoelectrically actuated miniature pump is being developed under a
   NASA Code S PIDDP task.  This pump employs a novel volume displacing
   mechanism using flexural traveling waves that acts peristaltically and
   eliminates the need for valves or physically moving parts.  This pump
   is being developed for planetary instruments and space applications.
   Finite element model was developed using ANSYS for the purpose of
   prediction of the resonance frequency of the vibrating mode for the
   piezopump driving stator.  The model is used to determine
   simultaneously the mode shapes that are associated with the various
   resonance frequencies. This capability is essential for designing the
   pump size and geometry.  To predict and optimize the pump efficiency
   that is determined by the volume of pumping chambers the model was
   modified to perform harmonic analysis.  Current capability allows for
   the determination of the effect of such design parameters as pump
   geometry, construction materials and operating modes on the volume of
   the chambers that are formed between the peaks and valleys of the
   waves. Experiments were made using a breadboard of the pump and showed
   water-pumping rate of about 3.0 cc/min.  The pump is continually being
   modified to enhance the performance and efficiency.

Publications

   "Piezopumps using no physically moving parts," Miniature Vacuum Pumps
   Workshop, July 20-21, 1999
   "Piezoelectrically Actuated Miniature Peristaltic Pump," SPIE Smart
   Structures 2000, paper 3992-102
   "Piezoelectrically Actuated Miniature Peristaltic Pump," SPIE Smart
   Structures 2001, paper 4327-52

Patents related to piezoelectric driven pumps

   U.S. Patent No. 5,630,709, May 20, 1997 Y. Bar-Cohen, "Pump Using
   Pistons And Valve Made of Electroactive Actuators"
   U.S. Patent No. 5,961,298, October 5, 1999 Y. Bar-Cohen, B. Joffe and
   S.-S. Lih "Traveling wave pump employing electroactive actuators"

Demonstrations of ultrasonic pumping mechanisms

   A demonstration was made during the JPL 2000 Invention Challenge,
   December 8, 2000. The demonstration was entitled "Plumbing-free water
   fountain using high-power focused ultrasonic waves."

Acknowledgement

   Piezopump is currently being developed under a PIDDP task from NASA HQ,
   Code S, Discipline Scientist, Dr. Bruce Betts. The JPL's PIDDP manager
   is Dr. James Kaufman and the prior manager Dr. Greg Vane. The
   technology was initiated as a spin-off to the telerobotic (formerly
   TRIWG and currently CETDP Surface Systems) PDM task that was managed
   initially by Dr. Paul Schenker and currently by Dr. Hari Das. The JPL
   program managers for TRIWG has been Dr. Chuck Weisbin and currently the
   CETDP's Surface Systems Thrust manager, Dr. Samad Hayati.

   Return to the JPL's NDEAA Webhub

   Last update March 28, 2000
