http://www.sba.gov/news/current01/economicinjuryfactsheet.html

                                  SBA Logo

                     U.S. Small Business Administration

            FACT SHEET ABOUT U. S. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

               EXPANDED ECONOMIC INJURY DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM

                        (Effective October 22, 2001)

    Filing Period to apply for economic injury loan assistance begins on
                 October 22, 2001 and ends on April 22, 2002

   The purpose of the expanded economic injury disaster loan program is to
   provide funds to eligible small businesses to meet its ordinary and
   necessary operating expenses that it could have met, but is unable to
   meet as a direct result of the destruction of the World Trade Center or
   damage to the Pentagon on September 11, 2001, or as a direct result of
   any Federal action taken between September 11, 2001 and the effective
   date (October 22, 2001) of the regulations implementing this program.
   These loans are intended only to provide the amount of working capital
   needed by a small business to pay its necessary operating expenses and
   obligations until operations return to normal. The purpose of these
   loans is not to cover lost income or lost profits, or losses
   attributable to an economic downturn. EIDL funds cannot be used to
   refinance long-term debt or to expand the business.

   Federal law requires SBA to determine whether credit needed to
   accomplish full recovery is available from non-government sources
   without creating an undue financial hardship to the applicant. The law
   calls this credit available elsewhere. Generally, SBA determines that
   over 90 percent of disaster loan applicants do not have sufficient
   financial resources to recover without the assistance of the Federal
   government. Because economic injury loans are taxpayer subsidized,
   Congress intended that applicants with the financial capacity to fund
   their own recovery should do so and therefore are not eligible for EIDL
   assistance.

   Credit Requirements:
   SBA’s assistance is in the form of loans, as such SBA must have a
   reasonable assurance that such loans can and will be repaid.

   Collateral Requirements:
   Loans of $5,000 or less do not require collateral. Loans in excess of
   $5,000 require the pledging of collateral to the extent that it is
   available. Generally the collateral will consist of a first or second
   mortgage on the business property. SBA takes real estate as collateral
   where it is available. In addition, personal guaranties by the
   principals of the business are required. The SBA will not decline a
   loan for lack of collateral, but you must pledge available collateral.

   Interest Rate:
   Interest rates are determined by formulas set by law and are
   recalculated quarterly. The maximum interest rate for this program is 4
   percent.

   Loan Term:
   The law authorizes loan terms up to a maximum of 30 years. SBA
   determines the term of each loan in accordance with the borrower's
   ability to repay. Based on the financial circumstances of each
   borrower, SBA determines an appropriate installment payment amount,
   which in turn determines the actual term.

   Loan Amount Limit - $1,500,000.
   The actual amount of each loan, up to this maximum, is limited to the
   actual economic injury as calculated by SBA, not compensated by
   business interruption insurance or otherwise, and beyond the ability of
   the business and/or its owners to provide. If a business is a major
   source of employment, SBA has authority to waive the $1,500,000
   statutory limit.

   Insurance Requirements:
   To protect each borrower and SBA, SBA requires borrowers to obtain and
   maintain appropriate insurance. Borrowers of all secured loans
   (economic injury loans over $5,000) must purchase and maintain full
   hazard insurance for the life of the loan. Borrowers whose collateral
   property is located in a special flood hazard area must also purchase
   and maintain flood insurance for the full insurable value of the
   property for the life of the loan.

               EXPANDED ECONOMIC INJURY DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM

                         Frequently Asked Questions

   I’ve heard that SBA loan applications are complicated and hard to
   complete. Is this true?

   No. The application form asks you for the same information about the
   business and its substantial owners and managers that generally is
   required for a bank loan. If you need help, SBA personnel will explain
   the forms and give you assistance at no charge. You may use the
   services of accountants, attorneys, or other representatives if you
   wish, but be sure they are reliable and that their fees are reasonable.
   You must report the use of a representative and the fees charged on
   your loan application.

   What small businesses are eligible for the Expanded Economic Injury
   Disaster Loan Program?

   This program is for eligible small businesses located outside the
   declared disaster areas of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Any
   eligible small business that is unable to meet its financial
   obligations or pay its necessary operating expenses as a direct result
   of the terrorist attacks on September 11^th, or as a result of any
   related Federal action taken between September 11 and the effective
   date (October 22, 2001) of the regulations implementing this program
   may be eligible for assistance.

   Must I use my own money or try to borrow from a bank before I come to
   SBA?

   No. The resources of the business and its principals will be considered
   in determining the ability of the business to recover without the
   assistance of the Federal government.

   When should I apply for the loan?

   Small businesses have until April 22, 2002 to apply.

   What documentation do I need to give SBA to apply for this type of
   loan?

   The filing requirements are listed at the beginning of the application
   (SBA Form 5). In addition to the financial information required that
   you would normally submit for any loan, your application package must
   also include the following:

     * A written explanation of how the destruction of the World Trade
       Center, the damage to the Pentagon, or a related Federal action has
       resulted in the small business experiencing substantial economic
       injury.

   How can I show that my business has been impacted as a direct result of
   the September 11 terrorist attacks or as a result of a related Federal
   action that was taken between September 11^th and
   the effective date (October 22, 2001) of the regulations implementing
   this program?

   Generally, SBA will use the following criteria in determining whether
   your economic injury is eligible for assistance under the Expanded
   Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program:

    1. Your small business was located in an airport or other facility
       that was closed or suspended its operations or was otherwise
       disrupted as a result of national security as mandated by the
       Federal government; or
    2. Your small business supplied or provided services to a business
       that was located in or near the World Trade Center or Pentagon; or
    3. Your small business supplied or provided services to a business or
       industry adversely affected by the destruction of the World Trade
       Center or damage to the Pentagon on September 11, 2001 or Federal
       action; or is otherwise dependent on a business or industry so
       adversely impacted; or
    4. Your small business is dependent upon a business or other
       organization that was closed or suspended its operations or was
       otherwise disrupted as a result of the destruction of the World
       Trade Center or damage to the Pentagon on September 11, 2001
       attacks or Federal action; or
    5. Your small business was directly impacted by the destruction of the
       World Trade Center or damage to the Pentagon on September 11, 2001
       or related Federal actions taken in response to those actions
       between September 11 and October 22, 2001.

   Please note that a general decline in business since September 11 is
   not eligible for this program unless it is the direct result of the
   destruction of the World Trade Center, damage to the Pentagon, or
   related Federal actions. A decline in revenue due to public reaction in
   the wake of September 11^th is not covered by this program.

   What does "substantial economic injury" mean?

   Substantial economic injury
   means that your business either has been or will be adversely impacted
   by the destruction of the World Trade Center, the damage to the
   Pentagon, or a related Federal action, and that the business is (1)
   unable to meet its financial obligations as they mature, and (2) is
   unable to pay its ordinary and necessary operating expenses.

   Can I use the money to pay off or refinance my existing debts?

   No. You cannot use the proceeds of an economic injury disaster loan to
   pay off or refinance debt. The money can only be used for operating
   expenses or to make payments on your debts until the business recovers.

   When will I know if I get the loan?

   That depends on when you file a complete SBA loan application. To make
   a loan, we must be satisfied that the business can repay the loan from
   its operations and take reasonable safeguards to help ensure that the
   loan is repaid. Since we process applications in the order received,
   the faster you return the application with all the needed information,
   the faster we can work on it. We try to make decisions on each
   application within 21 days. Be sure the information in your application
   is complete; missing information is the biggest cause of delay.

   How soon can I expect my money?

   Upon approval of your loan request, we will send you loan closing
   documents describing all loan terms and conditions. Once we receive
   these documents, we can disburse the funds.

   Below are listed the offices, addresses, phone numbers, and the states
   each office serves:

   Disaster Area 1 Office

   360 Rainbow Blvd., South

   Niagara Falls, NY 14303

   1-800-659-2955

   Serves: Connecticut, District of Columbia, Delaware, Maine, Maryland,
   Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania,
   Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virgin Islands, Virginia and West
   Virginia

   Disaster Area 2 Office

   One Baltimore Place, Suite 300

   Atlanta, GA 30308

   1-800-359-2227

   Serves: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky,
   Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina,
   Tennessee and Wisconsin

   Disaster Area 3 Office

   4400 Amon Carter Blvd., Suite 102

   Ft. Worth, TX 76155

   1-800-366-6303

   Serves: Arkansas, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana,
   Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Utah
   and Wyoming

   Disaster Area 4 Office

   P. O. Box 13795

   Sacramento, CA 95853-4795

   1-800-488-5323

   Serves: Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii,
   Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Washington, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
   Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the
   Marshall Islands.

   For additional information please visit SBA’s website at www.sba.gov.

   (Rev. 01-10-02)

                           *Last Modified: 1-10-02
