http://www.okwd.uscourts.gov/secur.htm

   [USEMAP:xbanner.gif]


   [secprivban.gif]

   This web site is served by a computer system on a U.S. Government owned
   network. Personnel from the US District Court for the Western District
   of Oklahoma  monitor this web site and other systems available to the
   public for security purposes to ensure it remains available to all
   users and to protect information in the system. By accessing this web
   site, you are expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.
   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.
   The public is authorized to read all pages that are not protected by
   password or other access controls.
   Privacy Notice:
   This section describes how we handle information about you gathered
   from your visit to our web site. The information we receive depends
   upon what you do when visiting our site.
   If you visit our site to read or download information, such as
   information about the court or documents, we collect and store only the
   following information:
   * The name of the domain from which you access the Internet and your IP
   address.
   * The date and time you access our site.
   * Any errors generated by the system resulting from your requests.
   This site uses software programs to create summary statistics which are
   used for such purposes as assessing the number of visitors to the
   different sections of our site, what information is of most and least
   interest, determining technical design specifications, and identifying
   system performance or problem areas.
   Please see our security statement for further information on how user
   logs may be used by the US District Court for the Western District of
   Oklahoma.


   [USEMAP:footer.gif]
