http://www.stc.cahwnet.gov/page.asp?page=stc_background.htm&cat=content


      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002


     Pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, city skyline, Yosemite
     Half Dome and cypress tree




                            School-to-Career
                            Hot Topics
                            Grant Information
                            Technical Assistance
                            Partnerships
                            Events
                            Important Documents
                            Related Links
                            [leftstc.jpg]



   California School-to-Career


   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   School To Career Background

   School-to-Career supports reforms in the educational system that
   include the integration of school-based and work-based learning, the
   use of contextual, applied teaching strategies, and the opportunity for
   students to choose career-related coursework and workplace experiences,
   with equal access for all students.

   Vision

   Every student will develop a love of learning, and be fully prepared
   for
     * rewarding high-wage, high-skill careers,
     * productive citizenship, and
     * personal and professional growth.

   California's STC initiative is designed to offer all California
   students
     * exposure to a broad range of career opportunities,
     * access to relevant and rigorous educational programs that help them
       achieve their career aspirations, and
     * opportunities to benefit from workplace learning experiences.

   Local Partnerships

   The grant awards to local partnerships are intended to provide
   short-term resources to assist local partnerships to implement
   strategic STC activities that can be sustained after the State grant
   funds expire. Local partnerships plan and conduct strategic activities
   to
     * integrate STC principles throughout the educational system,
       kindergarten through grade 18,
     * connect school-based and work-based learning,
     * promote community support for continued STC development after State
       funding ceases, and
     * link STC efforts across education segments and with other major
       initiatives involving education, economic development, workforce
       development, Welfare-to-Work and One-Stop Career Centers.

   Background

   In May 1994, the federal School-to-Work Opportunities Act (STWOA) was
   signed into law creating a framework for the development of the
   School-to-Work (STW) system. The Act calls for the integration of three
   basic program components:
     * School-based learning – provides students with high-level academic
       and technical skills,
     * Work-based learning – transforms the workplace into active learning
       sites for students, and
     * Connecting activities – provide a functional link between student’s
       school and work activities, and between workplace partners,
       educators, community organizations and other appropriate entities.

   In California, this initiative is referred to as School-to-Career.

   STC Advisory Council

   The STC Advisory Council, comprised of representatives of education,
   business, labor, parents, the legislature, and workforce and economic
   development organizations, provides policy recommendations to the
   Governor for the development and implementation of STC statewide. There
   are four subcommittees that give input and recommendations to the STC
   Advisory Council. They are the Student Assessment and Certification
   Subcommittee, the Education Issues and Practices Subcommittee, the STC
   Evaluation and Accountability Subcommittee, and the Employer and Labor
   Involvement Subcommittee. Subcommittee members are practitioners and
   subject matter experts. The Advisory Council is supported by an
   Interagency Partnership (IAP) comprised of the Employment Development
   Department (EDD), the California Department of Education (CDE) and the
   Chancellor's Office of the California Community Colleges (COCCC). The
   IAP works collaboratively to implement statewide policies designed to
   integrate STC principles into California's educational system.

   Funding

   In November 1996, the National School-to-Work Office awarded California
   its first implementation grant. In total, California could receive
   $131.4 million over a five-year period. These funds are intended to
   serve as venture capital for the State to invest in systemic
   educational reform and to provide incentives for local partnerships to
   form and collaboratively fund on-going STC-based efforts in
   coordination with other education and workforce initiatives. Some grant
   dollars are used for strategic statewide activities such as technical
   assistance, communications and outreach, regional coordination, and
   teacher preparation.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
