http://www.als.lbl.gov/als/aboutals/tour.html

   skip navigation navigation bar -- same as text links at bottom


                   Advanced Light Source Tour Information


   The Advanced Light Source (ALS) welcomes the public, teachers and their
   students, and scientific and technical professionals to visit this
   world-class research facility. All tours are arranged through the ALS
   User Services Office at least two weeks before the planned date of the
   tour, and are conducted by ALS scientists and technical personnel. To
   request a tour, please read the tour descriptions and the times at
   which tours are available, and fill out an ALS Tour Request Form.


   Educational Tours: Mondays 9:00 a.m.- 12:00 p.m.


   photo of student tour
   Educational tours are available for teachers and students from the
   elementary grades through university. ALS staff will tailor the tour to
   the requirements or scientific focus of the class or group. For younger
   students, (K-8), hands-on activities and curriculum materials developed
   at the ALS are available. Teachers should consult the ALS educational
   Web site MicroWorlds for materials and posters about the ALS in order
   to prepare students for their visit. Please note that we are able to
   accommodate a maximum of 30 students and chaperones at one time. At
   least one adult chaperone must accompany every 10 students.

   Scientific and Technical Tours: Wednesdays 9:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m.


   Professionals in the scientific and technical fields are invited to
   tour the ALS on Wednesdays. Tours must be arranged in advance by
   filling out the tour request form below. Please indicate on the form if
   there are any specific areas of interest that you would like included
   on your tour. tour inside storage ring

   General Public Tours: Fridays 9:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m.

   Tours for the general public are usually organized by Berkeley Lab
   Community Relations and include visits to other laboratory facilities.



   To request a tour of the Advanced Light Source, please fill out the ALS
   Tour Request Form.

   For additional information about general or scientific/technical tours
   of the ALS, contact alstours@lbl.gov; for guidelines on preparing
   students for educational tours of the facility, contact Elizabeth Moxon
   at ejmoxon@lbl.gov.


          Home | News | Science | User Guide | Search | Ring Status

                       Last updated December 13, 2001
                           Questions and Comments
                         Privacy and Security Notice
