http://fire.pppl.gov/itercanada_070601.pdf

   For Immediate Release Ambassador Irwin Launches Iter Canada's Plan to
   Host Multi-Billion Dollar Fusion Energy Research Centre Toronto,  June
   7, 2001. In Moscow, Canada's Ambassador to Russia, Rod Irwin, today
   launched Canada's bid for Iter, the $12 billion fusion energy research
   and development centre. The presentation to delegations from Russia,
   Japan, the European Union and the United States was made in the
   Presidential Hall of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Ambassador Irwin
   said: "It is with the greatest pleasure that I now, on behalf of the
   Government of Canada, hereby formally announce Canada's offer of our
   Clarington site, located just east of Toronto on the northern shore of
   Lake Ontario as the location for the implementation of Iter in Canada."
   Iter is an international fusion energy research and development centre,
   planned by a unique international collaborative effort with
   participation from Russia, the European Union, Japan and Canada. The
   goal of this centre is to develop fusion energy as a safe, clean and
   sustainable energy source for our planet. The Iter project will be the
   second largest research and development project in the world after the
   International Space Station. In addition to Canada, other Iter Party
   governments may also compete to host the project. Dr. Peter Barnard,
   Chairman and CEO of Iter Canada, the organization leading Canada's
   effort to host the Iter project, is delighted. Said Dr. Barnard: "With
   the support of the Government of Canada, the endorsement we have
   received from the Government of Ontario, and the continuing commitment
   of our private sector, labour, university and local community members,
   we believe Iter Canada is in a very strong position to win this project
   for our country. As host of the Iter project, Canada will become a
   world centre of excellence for research and development in the high
   tech energy field. Iter will be the largest "brain gain" in Canadian
   project history " Iter will provide access for Canadian industry and
   universities to cutting-edge fusion technologies. The project will also
   inject hundreds of millions of dollars into the Canadian economy by
   providing jobs, new business and technical expertise. "The Ontario
   Government supports and fully endorses the Canadian effort to have
   Ontario host the international Iter fusion energy project," said Jim
   Wilson, Ontario's Minister of Energy, Science and Technology. "The
   Ontario Government is confident that Canada can win this bid, and has
   indicated a willingness to commit $10 million per year for 30 years."
   If Canada's bid succeeds, this research and development project would
   bring to Ontario 250 of the brightest minds in nuclear energy science,
   help diversify Ontario's high-tech industry and inject billions of
   dollars into the provincial economy. The Canadian site for Iter is
   located at Clarington, Ontario at the eastern end of the Greater
   Toronto Area. The local community is very supportive. "The Council of
   Clarington has been involved in this project since 1995 and we are now
   very excited about the prospect of locating such a large-scale, fusion
   energy development project in our community," said Clarington Mayor
   John Mutton. -2- Beyond Clarington itself, support for the project is
   very strong. "As a resident of the region surrounding Clarington, I am
   excited about the prospect of hosting the Iter project in our
   community, said Gary Polonsky, President of Durham College and Chairman
   of the Iter Community Council, a grass-roots organization representing
   the interests of all communities around the site. "The potential impact
   and benefits are tremendous, and it is critical we participate in the
   process of bringing this project to our region." The Durham College
   campus will house the Ontario Institute of Technology, a proposed new
   university that will serve the area and offer a degree program in
   nuclear technology and safety. With the presentation of Iter Canada's
   Plan in Moscow, Canadian participants will begin negotiations with the
   other Iter Party delegations. These negotiations are scheduled to be
   completed next year with the finalization of an international treaty
   for building the project and funding the 20-year research and
   development program. Fusion energy is created when atoms are pushed
   together and is inherently safe and clean because any change in the
   process will result in an immediate shutdown and no fuel waste or
   greenhouse emissions are produced. Research into fusion has been
   conducted since the 1920's, and recent advances have renewed interest
   in the technology. A US report prepared by a National Energy Policy
   Development (NEPD) Group chaired by Vice President Dick Cheney, said:
   "The NEPD Group recommends that the President direct the Secretary of
   Energy to develop next generation technology  including hydrogen and
   fusion." Iter Canada is a not-for-profit corporation established in
   1997 with members from industry, governments, labour, and universities.
   It is committed to locating the world's Iter Fusion Research and
   Development Centre in Canada. For more information please contact:
   Laura Ferguson Director of Communications Iter Canada 416.203.9409
   laura@itercanada.com Or visit the Iter Canada website at
   www.itercanada.com
