http://fire.pppl.gov/eu_council3_103001.pdf

   CORDIS: News service Search G o Detailed search De Donnea seeks common
   position on FP6 proposals [Date: 2001-10-26] In the first of two
   Research councils under the Belgian Presidency, Fran*ois-Xavier de
   Donnea, current chair of the council, will seek to reach an agreement
   on the structure and implementation of the Sixth Framework programme
   (FP6) in Luxembourg on 30 October. On the agenda will be the content of
   the specific programmes, the implementation of the new instruments
   'networks of excellence' and 'integrated projects', the allocation of
   the budget and the budget and contents of the Euratom programme. Mr de
   Donnea may have difficulty in achieving agreement regarding Euratom as
   a number of Member States, such as France, regard nuclear fusion to be
   the energy of the future. They have indicated that they would like to
   see an increased budget in order to fund ITER, a project in which
   European researchers are working together with their counterparts in
   Japan and Russia to further develop nuclear fusion. The Presidency is,
   however, extremely reluctant to exceed the planned budget, which would
   involve reopening difficult budgetary debates. If necessary, Mr de
   Donnea is likely to push for appropriate budgetary transfers as an
   alternative. Another could be the first thematic priority proposed by
   the Commission, 'genomics and biotechnology for health'. Europe's
   research ministers must agree on whether funding should only be
   allocated to human health, or to research on animal health, plants and
   microbes as well. Mr de Donnea favours a compromise, whereby priority
   is awarded to human health, but funding is also made available for
   research into animal, plant and microbial research having a direct
   impact on human health. Regarding the proposed priority 'food safety
   and health risks', Mr de Donnea must seek to reach a compromise on
   which types of illness should receive European funding for research:
   diseases more common in Europe, such as cancer, cardiovascular
   disorders and Alzheimer's disease or diseases associated with poverty,
   such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. Mr de Donnea would also like to
   see the inclusion of afflictions such as allergies and diabetes, which
   are becoming more common. In terms of sustainable development and
   global change, the Belgian Presidency intends to highlight the
   importance of secondary priorities such as public transport, roads and
   water transport and marine biology, none of which are mentioned in the
   Commission's proposals. In his quest to reach a common position on the
   above issues, Mr de Donnea has spent time touring the Member States and
   conducting bilateral meetings with the 14 other research ministers. He
   is also in close contact with MEPs involved in the industry, research,
   trade and energy committee. In order to preserve continuity between the
   Fifth Framework programme (FP5), due to end in December 2002 and FP6,
   due to commence in January 2003, the Belgian Presidency wants to reach
   a common position before handing over the Presidency of the EU at the
   end of the year. Mr de Donnea will have a second chance to reach such
   an agreement at the second Research council to take place under his
   chairmanship, to be held in Brussels on 10 December. for further
   information please contact: E-mail: info.dedonnea@dedonnea.irisnet.bea
   Category: General policy Data Source Provider: Belgian Presidency
   Document Reference: Based on information from the Belgian Government
   Programme or Service Acronym: FRAMEWORK 6C; ERA; MS-B C Subject Index :
   Policies; Scientific Research; Nuclear Fusion; Medicine, Health;
   Transport RCN: 17542 CORDIS RTD-NEWS/© European Communities, 2001.
   Tuesday, November 6, 2001
   http://dbs.cordis.lu/cgi-bin/srchidadb?CALLER=NEWSLINK_EN_C&QOP_EQ_EN_R
   CN_A=17542&LINK_CALLER=NHP_EN_NEWS&UPL=EN& Page: 1
   LINK_SESSION=201402001-11-5
