http://www.fknms.nos.noaa.gov/visitor_information/welcome.html

          NOAA Logo Florida Department of Environmental Protection

                                                          Sanctuary Banner

                                                          Diver Photograph

                              January 30, 2002

   Home
   Visitor Information
   Sanctuary Advisory Council
   5 Year Review
   Regulations
   Education
   Tortugas 2000
   News
   Research and Monitoring
   Resoure Protection
   Sanctuary Resources
   Calendar of Events
   Volunteer Opportunities
   Job Postings
   Staff
   Links

                                [search6.gif]

      Note: Many documents in this web site are in the (PDF) format and
                    require Adobe Acrobat Reader to open.

                               Email envalope
                          Floridakeys.NMS@noaa.gov

                               What can we do
                    to make this site more useful to you?

                           FKNMS Privacy Statement
     __________________________________________________________________

                       Last Updated: January 27, 2002

                           Yellow Wave Yellow Wave

                             Visitor Information

               [Click here for a topic list...______________]

                FKNMS map
          FKNMS interactive map

                                     National Sanctuary Map
                               The 12 National Marine Sanctuaries.

                        [Other Maps...______________]

The FKNMS - What is It?

     [3stars.JPG]

     Boulder Corals in the
         Florida Keys

     Few marine environments in the U.S. compare to the Florida Keys in
     terms of natural beauty and natural resources. The most extensive
     living coral reef in the United States is adjacent to the 126 mile
     island chain of the Florida Keys. The Keys are located on the
     southern tip of the Florida peninsula, beginning just south of Key
     Biscayne and ending just 90 miles north of Cuba. These coral reefs
     are intimately linked to a marine ecosystem that supports one of the
     most unique and diverse assemblages of plants and animals in North
     America. The 2,800 square nautical mile Florida Keys National Marine
     Sanctuary (FKNMS) surrounds the entire archipelago of the Florida
     Keys and includes the productive waters of Florida Bay, the Gulf of
     Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. Cultural resources are also contained
     within the sanctuary. The proximity of coral reefs to centuries old
     shipping routes has resulted in a high concentration of shipwrecks
     and an abundance of artifacts.

     This complex marine ecosystem also supports tourism and commercial
     fishing, the economic foundation of the Florida Keys. In the last 20
     years the tourism industry has grown to over four million domestic
     and foreign visitors who drive, fly or cruise each year to the most
     accessible tropical paradise in the Caribbean Basin. The Keys
     support 82,000 full-time residents. Tourists and semi-permanent
     residents increase this population by 75% during "season" (November
     to April). This ecosystem's extensive nursery, feeding and breeding
     grounds also support a multi-million dollar commercial fishing
     industry that lands nearly 20 million pounds of seafood and marine
     products annually.

   In response to a growing awareness of the intrinsic environmental and
   cultural value of our coastal waters, Congress created the National
   Marine Sanctuary Program in 1972. The National Marine Sanctuary Act
   authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to designate specific areas as
   National Marine Sanctuaries to promote comprehensive management of
   their special ecological, historical, recreational, and esthetic
   resources. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA),
   Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management is responsible for
   management of the nation's Marine Sanctuaries. There are currently
   twelve National Marine Sanctuaries established in areas where the
   natural or cultural resources are so significant that they warrant
   special status and protection.

                                                                Reef Photo

                                 Blue Stiped Grunt

   The Florida Keys is just such an area. North America's only living
   coral barrier reef and the third longest barrier reef in the world
   (following Australia and Belize) lies about six miles seaward of the
   Florida Keys (a 220-mile long string of islands extending south and
   west of the Florida mainland), making it a unique national treasure of
   international notoriety. Coral reefs contain more varieties of life
   than any other marine environment. They are part of a fragile
   interdependent ecosystem that includes mangroves and seagrasses that
   grow both on the ocean and bay side of the Florida Keys. In recognition
   of this important environment, the Florida Keys National Marine
   Sanctuary was created in 1990. The Sanctuary consists of 2,800 square
   nautical miles (9,500 square kilometers) of coastal and oceanic waters,
   and the submerged lands thereunder, surrounding the Florida Keys, and
   extending westward to encompass the Tortugas islands, but excluding the
   Dry Tortugas National Park. The shoreward boundary of the Sanctuary is
   the mean high-water mark. Within these waters are spectacular, unique,
   and nationally significant marine environments, including seagrass
   meadows, mangrove islands, and extensive coral reefs. These marine
   environments support rich biological communities possessing extensive
   conservation, recreational, commercial, ecological, historical,
   research, educational, and aesthetic values that give this area special
   national significance. These environments are the marine equivalent of
   tropical rain forests in that they support high levels of biological
   diversity, are fragile and easily susceptible to damage from human
   activities, and possess high value if properly conserved.

   As part of its establishment, a comprehensive management plan and water
   quality protection program was created for the Sanctuary in concert
   with the public, a citizen's advisory council, and several federal,
   state and local government agencies. Management in the state and
   federal waters is achieved through a cooperative agreement with the
   State of Florida Department of Environmental Protection and the Florida
   Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission.

Why was the Sanctuary Established?

     Reef Photo

                           Seargant Major on the Reef

     The lure of the Florida Keys has attracted explorers and visitors
     for centuries. The clear tropical waters, bountiful resources, and
     appealing natural environment were among the many fine qualities
     that attracted visitors to the Keys. However, warning signs that the
     Keys' environment and natural resources were fragile, and not
     infinite, came early. In 1957, a group of conservationists and
     scientists held a conference at the Everglades National Park and
     discussed the demise of the coral reef resources in the Keys at the
     hands of those attracted there because of their beauty and
     uniqueness. This conference resulted in action that created the
     world's first underwater park, the John Pennekamp Coral Reef State
     Park in 1960. However, just a little more than a decade following
     the establishment of the park, public outcry was sounded that cited
     pollution, overharvest, physical impacts, overuse, and use conflicts
     as continuing to occur in the Keys. These concerns continued to be
     voiced by environmentalists and scientists alike throughout the
     decade of the 1970's and into the 1990's.

     The deterioration of the marine environment in the Florida Keys is
     no longer a matter of debate. There is a decline of healthy corals,
     signaled by an increase of coral diseases, coral bleaching, and
     decreased living coral cover. Marine scientists have reported an
     invasion of algae in seagrass beds and onto coral reefs. Fisheries
     scientists are reporting declines in some fish stocks and Florida
     Bay has undergone changes during the past decade that have resulted
     in degradation of the ecosystem, in terms of productivity, health,
     and stability of its living marine resources. Reduced freshwater
     flow in Florida Bay is one of the factors that has resulted in
     plankton blooms, sponge and seagrass die-offs, and fish kills.

                                                           Prokfish photo

                        Porkfish School on the Reef Line

     In 1989, mounting threats to the health and ecological future of the
     coral reef ecosystem in the Florida Keys prompted Congress to take
     action to protect this fragile natural resource. The threat of oil
     drilling in the mid-1980's off the Florida Keys, combined with
     reports of deteriorating water quality throughout the region,
     occurred at the same time scientists were assessing the adverse
     effects of coral bleaching, the die-off of the long-spined sea
     urchin, loss of living coral cover on reefs, a major seagrass
     die-off, declines in reef fish populations, and the spread of coral
     disease. These were topics of major scientific concern, and the
     focus of several scientific workshops, when three large ships ran
     aground on the coral reef tract within 18 days in the fall of 1989.
     Coincidental as it may seem, it was this final physical insult to
     the reef that prompted Congress to take action to protect the coral
     reef ecosystem of the Florida Keys. Although most remember the ship
     groundings as having triggered Congressional action, it was in fact
     the cumulative events of environmental degradation, in conjunction
     with the physical impacts that prompted Congress to designate the
     2800 square nautical mile Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and
     called for the development of a comprehensive management plan.

How was the Sacntuary Established?

     Knowledge-based Consensus Building

     A series of workshops followed a set of public scoping meetings, and
     laid the foundation for building this Plan. At these work sessions,
     NOAA used a systematic process for obtaining relevant information
     from experts with knowledge of Sanctuary problems.

     NOAA recognized that a useful management plan could not be developed
     and implemented without forging working teams to help provide the
     vision and knowledge necessary to accomplish the goals set forth in
     the FKNMSPA. Four teams were formed to ensure that input was
     provided by major Federal, State, and local interests in the
     Sanctuary, and to see that a plan was produced that met the goals
     and objectives set forth by the FKNMSPA and NOAA. There was
     considerable interaction, and some overlap in membership and
     function, among these teams.
     * In July 1991, the Interagency Core Group, composed of Federal,
       State, and local agencies with direct jurisdictional responsibility
       in the Sanctuary, was formed to develop policies, and direct and
       oversee the management plan development process (Appendix B in
       Volume III lists the members of this Core Group).
     * Sanctuary Planners held a series of workshops, from July 1991
       through January 1992, which focused on a range of topics. The
       workshop topics included mooring buoys, education, photobathymetry,
       research, submerged cultural resources, and zoning.
     * A Strategy Identification Work Group, composed of 49 local
       scientists and management experts, generated the initial set of
       strategies and details on implementation requirements.
     * The Sanctuary Advisory Council (SAC) was established by the FKNMSPA
       to ensure public input into the Plan, and to advise and assist NOAA
       in its development and implementation. The SAC first met in
       February 1992 and conducted over 30 meetings that were open to the
       public (Appendix B in Volume III contains a list of SAC members).
       The SAC became an integral part of the Sanctuary planning process
       by serving as a direct link to the Keys' user communities, such as
       the dive industry, environmental groups, and commercial and
       recreational fishermen. In addition, the SAC has been instrumental
       in helping NOAA formulate policy, particularly with regard to: 1)
       the marine zoning plan, 2) activities needing regulation, and 3)
       recommending a preferred alternative for the Management Plan.
     * A NOAA team composed of the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, the
       Strategic Environmental Assessments Division, and the Office of the
       Assistant General Counsel for Ocean Services was responsible for
       developing and implementing the process to produce the Draft Plan.
       The Sanctuaries and Reserves Division is responsible for
       coordinating the review and producing the Final Management Plan and
       Environmental Impact Statement.

     Focus on Management and Action

     From the beginning of the Plan development process, it has been
     recognized that management is a continuous activity that must
     involve those responsible for implementing actions. The process has
     made maximum use of existing knowledge and experience to identify,
     characterize, and assess alternative management actions. Much of the
     planning process was devoted to identifying short- and long-term
     management actions or strategies, including their operational
     requirements. These management actions can be found in the detailed
     action plans contained in this volume. These plans address
     management issues ranging from channel marking, to volunteer
     programs, to regulations. They provide details on institutional
     needs, personnel, time requirements, and implementation costs. These
     details are necessary for the decisions that will have to be made
     upon Plan implementation by the managers in the region.

     Toward Integrated, Continuous Management

     A central purpose of the Management Plan is to take the disparate
     threads of protection and regulation that currently apply to the
     Florida Keys' ecosystem and weave them into a fabric of integrated
     coastal management (ICM). ICM is not a new idea or concept; what is
     new is the notion of applying it in a comprehensive and continuous
     manner. ICM is a process that begins with direct participation of
     managers, planners, analysts, scientists, and a concerned public.
     Developing an integrated management approach does not take place
     quickly; it evolves over time, based on incremental gains that build
     upon one another.

     A major component of the Management Plan is the consideration of
     water quality issues and problems. The FKNMSPA called upon the U.S.
     Environmental Protection Agency and the State of Florida to develop
     a comprehensive water quality protection program for the Sanctuary.
     NOAA has incorporated this protection program into the Management
     Plan as the Water Quality Action Plan found in this volume.

Overview of the Public Review Process

     The Draft Management Plan and Environmental Impact Statement
     (DMP/EIS) for the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary was
     released to the public at a Sanctuary Advisory Council meeting on
     April 4, 1995. This initiated a nine-month public review of the
     draft plan that ended December 31, 1995. During this review period,
     Sanctuary staff facilitated the public’s review of the plan in a
     variety of ways that were designed to maximize the public’s full
     understanding of the components and contents of the draft plan.

     The nine month public review process included the following
     opportunities:
     * Sanctuary Advisory Council Preview. On April 4, the draft plan was
       released in a public meeting. At this meeting, each of the authors
       of the Action Plans contained in the Preferred Alternative (Volume
       I) gave a verbal summary of the contents of the Action Plans. This
       day-long, detailed preview, initiated the public’s review of the
       draft plan and served to introduce and familiarize the public with
       the plan.
     * Info-Expos. The Sanctuary staff held two series of three-day-long
       Info-Expos in April and May of 1995 and October 1995. The
       Info-Expos were held in the Upper, Middle, and Lower Keys. They
       were set up like a trade show and individual tables served as
       information booths manned by Sanctuary staff, Sanctuary Advisory
       Council members, Core Group members, and a Spanish interpreter. The
       Info-Expo staff passed out materials and answered the public’s
       questions about the draft plan. Each of the booths represented a
       specific theme such as water quality, fishing, boating, zoning,
       etc. Additionally, staff distributed copies of the draft plan to
       the public if they had not received one by mail.
     * Working Groups. In June 1995, the Sanctuary Advisory Council
       established 10 Working Groups, one for each action plan, to assist
       in the public review of the draft plan. The SAC appointed a
       Chairperson for each of the Working Groups and other SAC members
       were encouraged to sign up to participate in the Working Groups
       that they were interested in monitoring.

     In August 1995, the Sanctuary Staff gave the Working Groups a
     briefing outlining the purpose, objectives, and ground rules for the
     Working Group’s public review of the draft plan. The purpose of the
     Working Groups was to broaden the public’s review of the draft plan
     in order to get the best and most comprehensive review possible. An
     objective of the process was to help the SAC formulate their
     comments on the draft plan. The ground rules were: that membership
     on the Working Groups was open and the public was encouraged to sign
     up and participate; no voting (strive for consensus, but record both
     sides when split); all suggestions were to be recorded; the Working
     Group meetings were to be held in different parts of the Keys; and
     Sanctuary staff were to serve in a support role.

     Each of the Working Groups held multiple meetings in various parts
     of the Keys. The public was given enormous opportunity to provide
     their input on the draft plan.
     * Public Hearings. There were six public hearings held on the draft
       plan. The hearings were held in Miami, Key Largo, Marathon, Key
       West, St. Petersburg, and Silver Spring, Maryland. The Sanctuary
       Advisory Council was encouraged to attend as many of the meetings
       as possible in order to help the SAC further develop their comments
       on the draft plan. This made it possible for the SAC to take full
       advantage of the public’s comments in their deliberations on the
       draft plan in November and December.

     As a result of the public review process, NOAA received over 6,400
     statements of public comment on the draft management plan and
     environmental impact statement. Clearly, the use of the Sanctuary
     Advisory Council Working Groups assisted the advisory council in the
     development of their comments on the draft plan. As a result of
     their review process, the input at public hearings, and written
     public comments, NOAA has been able to develop a Final Management
     Plan that reflects a broad range of public comments.

   DOC | NOAA | NOS | ONMS | Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary
