http://www.utb.uscourts.gov/cm_ecf/pacer_cmnotice.htm

        Home      Site Map     Search    Contact us     Case Research

                                PACER Notice
                           December 7, 2001 Update

                            Proof of Claim Notice
                               January 9, 2001

         The court converted to a new case management system (CM/ECF) on
          Monday, October 29, 2001.  PACER is affected as follows:

                              (What is CM/ECF?)

       Please note that PACER data  at the address:
   pacer.utb.uscourts.gov  will reflect court records as of close of
   business Friday, October 26, 2001.  These records will remain at this
   website until such time as all images claims are converted to the new
   case management system.  It is expected that all claim images should be
   converted to the new CM/ECF database by the end of January 2002.  After
   this is accomplished, access to the data at the address:
   pacer.utb.uscourts.gov  will be terminated.

       For current court records and docket images (images of claims filed
   prior to October 29, 2001 may not be available on new this site and
   users will need to access the above address) users will need to access
   the new ECF database for PACER information at: ecf.utb.uscourts.gov.
   Your current PACER login ID and password work in ECF.  The button on
   the court's website will be updated to point to the correct location
   once all images have been copied into the new database.
       We are sorry for the inconvenience of having two systems while we
   complete our conversion to CM/ECF.

   Dial-up PACER service was terminated on October 29, 2001 at 8:00 a.m.

                            Proof of Claim Notice

    Images of claims filed prior to October 29, 2001 are currently being
     converted into the CM/ECF database.   Users of the CM/ECF database
   should be able to access older claim images more frequently.  The Court
     anticipates that ALL claim images should be converted by the end of
   January 2002.    After this is accomplished, access to the old data at
          the address: pacer.utb.uscourts.gov  will be terminated.


        Home      Site Map     Search    Contact us     Case Research
