http://www.nhd.uscourts.gov/navigation.asp

                                 Navigation

   The District's web site has been developed, and will be continually
   improved, to provide the public and our litigants with accurate and
   complete information as quickly as possible. To use this site
   efficiently, it is recommended that you read this section thoroughly
   before your first visit, and review it periodically if you are not a
   regular user of these services.

   Home Page

   The day and date are displayed in the top brown bar for your
   convenience.

   The home page is dominated by images of our courthouse and the Old Man
   of the Mountain, a natural rock formation, located in Franconia Notch.
   Superimposed over the Old Man are thirteen topical categories that make
   up our site index. All information available through this site is
   grouped under one of these categories. This area on the left-hand side
   of the home page and all subsequent pages will be referred to as the
   navigation bar. Simply click your mouse on any part of the word that
   describes the general area where you think the information you are
   seeking might be found, and you will be immediately linked to a
   second-level page.

   To make your search for information easier and provide you with
   necessary information about using this site, we have added three
   features to assist you.

     * Each of the thirteen topical categories has been assigned a
       distinct color. As your mouse moves down the navigation bar, a
       block of color will be highlighted behind a particular category.
       This color and category name will show on each subcategory as you
       move deeper into the site.
     * On the home page and all subsequent pages you'll see a Site
       Contents/Search icon which allows you to search the entire web site
       for a key word or phrase or view a listing of the site's contents,
       including the main categories and any existing subcategories, along
       with an easy-to-understand description of the contents.
     * Lastly, we have added to the bottom of the main page four
       additional links--Navigation, where you are now, and:
            Warnings contains those restrictions that the government
       requires on court sites.
            Acknowledgments lists those companies and organizations that
       constructed this site or made a contribution to its makeup.
            Comments About This Site includes our webmaster's e-mail
       address for sending constructive comments about this site or its
       contents.

   Second-Level Page

   Since there are thirteen topical categories used to organize the site's
   information and services, there are thirteen second-level pages.

                                   Top Bar

   You will notice several things immediately when you open one of these
   pages. First, the color bar at the top will be the same color as is
   displayed on the navigation bar. As you go deeper into the site to
   third-level pages and beyond, the colored top bar containing the name
   of the main category will remain the same. Immediately below there is a
   light blue bar that contains three links:
     * the site contents/search functions are identical to that on the
       home page,
     * the top of page feature returns you to the top of that particular
       page if there is sufficient text to require the page to scroll, and
     * the home function returns you to the home page.

   This information will always be displayed at the top of second-level
   and deeper pages.

                               Navigation Bar

   You will notice that the thirteen topical categories are again listed
   on the left side. However, now for the first time, subcategories for
   the selected category will also appear.

   All of the items on the navigation bar are "hot" so you can either
   click on a different main category or activate a subcategory within the
   active one. If you choose the latter, you will go to a third-level page
   (see below). After you have visited a page, the description on the
   navigation bar will change to a slightly different shade of blue. This
   will help to remind you where you have already been.

   The text on the second-level page will vary. It may contain a general
   description of the contents, offer hot links, or present a narrative
   description or explanation.

   Third-Level Page

   These pages are subcategories of the second-level pages. They may not
   exist under all second-level categories. The top bar of all third-level
   pages operates exactly like those on the main or second-level pages.

   Links

   Web sites treat links in several different ways. Many of our links are
   internal and merely move the user to a different document or to a
   specific section of the same document within our site.

   Other links act as portals to external sites. Instead of leaving our
   site, our developer has opted to open a second browser "on top" of our
   site. If this has happened, you will notice that the back button on the
   browser's tool bar has been deactivated. In this situation, once you
   have finished, close the second browser by clicking on the X in the
   upper-right hand corner and you will return to our site. If the back
   button is still active, the transfer was internal, and a click on the
   back button will return you to your previous location.

   Internal or external links are shown as underlined blue text.

   Return Home
