http://lutece.fnal.gov/Reviews/FeynmanMeaning.html

                           The Man Who Loved Ideas

                               By Chris Quigg



   The Meaning of It All: Thoughts of a Citizen Scientist. By Richard P.
   Feynman. 133 pp. Reading, Mass.: Helix Books / Addison-Wesley. $22.

    Richard Feynman was my teacher long before we met. Ten years after his
   death, he remains an inspiration and example to me and to many
   physicists, as well as the icon of a public scientist to a growing
   legion of admirers in the world at large.

    Feynman in life was a remarkable presence. There was Feynman the
   peerless scientist: the Nobel laureate who had constructed the theory
   of photons and electrons, invented the little diagrams that supplanted
   equations as the way physicists think about fundamental processes, and
   spoken delphically of antiparticles as particles moving backward
   through time. There was Feynman the captivating lecturer: the
   performance artist, really, who took seriously both his subject and his
   audience, invested himself in every lecture, and punctuated his
   performances with wisecracks and homilies alike. And, of course, there
   was Feynman the character: the bongo-playing safecracker who stood up
   for the First-Amendment rights of topless dancers.

    When I did meet Feynman--having heard him lecture on film and in
   person, having studied the classic papers and worked through his two
   little books on Quantum Electrodynamics and The Theory of Fundamental
   Processes--I saw yet another face. One evening at a conference at
   Cornell in 1971, he took me off to a quiet corner and acted as if he
   expected to learn something from me. That was ridiculous, but the man
   was serious! For more than an hour, he kept asking, "What do you know?"
   and "How do you know that?" and "How do you think about that?" and
   "What do you think that means?" It wasn't long before I began to feel
   that he had inserted a catheter into my skull and was siphoning out
   every lonely thought. This was Feynman the comrade, who wanted to learn
   to think the way Nature does, the man who loved ideas--and not just his
   own.

    The Meaning of It All is drawn from three lectures Richard Feynman
   gave in April 1963 at the University of Washington on the theme, "A
   Scientist Looks at Society." The talks came as the world was still
   exhaling after the Cuban missile crisis, two weeks after Pope John
   XXIII issued Pacem in Terris, at a moment when the tyrant Trofim
   Denisovich Lysenko still directed the Institute of Genetics in the
   Soviet Union. Feynman himself was just completing the two-year
   introductory course we know as the Feynman Lectures in Physics, would
   soon give the famous Messenger Lectures at Cornell (which physics
   students still watch in grainy black-and-white film), and would receive
   the Nobel Prize in 1965 with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichiro Tomonaga.

    In "The Uncertainty of Science," we find Feynman on familiar ground as
   the jubilant tour-guide to scientific insights and the fervent apostle
   of "science as a method for finding things out." Of the things we have
   learned through science, he writes, "This is the gold. This is the
   excitement, the pay you get for all the disciplined thinking and hard
   work. The work is not done for the sake of an application. It is done
   for the excitement of what is found out. ... [W]ithout understanding
   that, you miss the whole point. ... You do not live in your time unless
   you understand that this is a tremendous adventure and a wild and
   exciting thing."

    As a method for finding things out, science lives by its disdain for
   authority and its reliance on experimentation. The seventeenth-century
   gentlemen who founded the Royal Society of London took as their motto
   Nullius in verba--Don't take anyone's word for it! For Feynman, science
   "is based on the principle that observation is the judge of whether
   something is so or not."

    "Why repeat all this?" he asks rhetorically. "Because there are new
   generations born every day. Because there are great ideas developed in
   the history of man, and these ideas do not last unless they are passed
   purposely and clearly from generation to generation." But Feynman does
   not merely "repeat all this." He shows that the strength of science
   lies in its provisional nature, its open-mindedness, its capacity for
   doubt and uncertainty. Perhaps, he suggests, science's experience with
   doubt and uncertainty is its great lesson for humanity.

    "It was a struggle to be permitted to doubt, to be unsure. And I do
   not want us to forget the importance of the struggle and, by default,
   to let the thing fall away. I feel a responsibility as a scientist who
   knows the great value of a satisfactory philosophy of ignorance, and
   the progress made possible by such a philosophy, progress which is the
   fruit of freedom of thought. I feel a responsibility to proclaim the
   value of this freedom and to teach that doubt is not to be feared, but
   that it is to be welcomed as the possibility of a new potential for
   human beings. If you know that you are not sure, you have a chance to
   improve the situation. I want to demand this freedom for future
   generations."

    In "The Uncertainty of Values," Feynman argues that by admitting
   ignorance and uncertainty we may find hope for human institutions.
   "Looking back at the worst times, it always seems that they were times
   in which there were people who believed with absolute faith and
   dogmatism in something. And they were so serious in this matter that
   they insisted that the rest of the world would agree with them. And
   then they would do things that were directly inconsistent with their
   own beliefs in order to maintain that what they said was true."

   Feynman steps outside the safe terrain of scientific discourse because
   he acknowledges the limitations of science, and because "[w]estern
   civilization, it seems to me, stands by two great heritages. One is the
   scientific spirit of adventure--the adventure into the unknown, an
   unknown that must be recognized as unknown in order to be explored . .
   . To summarize it: humility of the intellect. The other great heritage
   is Christian ethics--the basis of action on love, the brotherhood of
   all men, the value of the individual, the humility of the spirit."

    He sees the ideological struggle between east and west not "as between
   socialism and capitalism, but rather between suppression of ideas and
   free ideas." He believes that the "writers of the Constitution knew the
   value of doubt. In the age that they lived, for instance, science had
   already developed far enough to show the possibilities and
   potentialities that are the result of having uncertainty, the value of
   having the openness of possibility. ... Doubt and discussion are
   essential to progress. The United States government, in that respect,
   is new, it's modern, and it is scientific."

    Whether you find Feynman's political science insightful or naïve, the
   link between science and freedom has not lost its importance. Czech
   President Vaclav Havel, who saw through every Stalinist lie except the
   specious claim that the Soviet system was "scientific," now delivers
   postmodern indictments of the scientific world-view he links with
   totalitarian régimes. But here is Feynman: "Where did we ever get the
   idea that the Russians were, in some sense, scientific? ... [I]t is not
   scientific ... to be blind in order to maintain ignorance."

    The final lecture in this collection, "This Unscientific Age," is a
   grab-bag of opinions and ideas, as long in print as the first two
   lectures combined. Here we find Feynman's take on the John Birch
   Society: "They don't have a sense of proportion." There is also an
   early indication of his impatience with NASA: "It's not necessary that
   we have so many failures, as far as I can tell. There's something the
   matter in the organization, in the administration, in the engineering,
   or in the making of these instruments. It's important to know that.
   It's not worthwhile knowing that we're always learning something [from
   these needless failures]."

    Most provocative is Feynman's attitude toward religion as an impulse
   toward ethical behavior. In scientific matters, we require not only the
   correct conclusion, but also a correct chain of reasoning. What matters
   to Feynman in human affairs is not the motivation, but the behavior. He
   receives John XXIII's encyclical letter on establishing universal peace
   in truth, justice, charity, and liberty with optimism "as the
   beginning, possibly, of a new future where we forget, perhaps, about
   the theories of why we believe things as long as we ultimately, as far
   as action is concerned, believe the same thing."

    The Meaning of It All is the chance to spend a few hours in Feynman's
   company, to ponder and debate his ideas. It is also an unspoken
   challenge to physicists to think about the cultural and spiritual value
   of science and, following Richard Feynman's example, dare to think
   aloud and in public.


    A slightly shorter version of this review appeared in the July 17,
   1998, issue of FermiNews, pp. 6-7.
