http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories/s668.htm


     NOAA News || NOAA Home Page

                          LIGHTNING KILLS, PLAY IT SAFE
                         NOAA and PGA TOUR Alert Public

     NOAA lightning photo June 19, 2001 — Summer begins this week, along
   with the peak season for one of the nation's deadliest weather
   phenomena—lightning. Safeguarding U.S. residents from dangerous
   lightning is the goal of NOAA's new public awareness
   campaign—"Lightning Kills, Play it Safe." The campaign is designed to
   lower lightning death and injury rates and America's vulnerability to
   one of nature's deadliest hazards. NOAA's National Weather Service and
   four-time Professional Golfing Association TOUR champion Rocco Mediate
   have teamed to alert the nation about lightning's risks. (Click NOAA
   image for larger view.)
   Click here to view the :30 PSA.
   Click here to view :10 PSA.
   Click here to view B-Roll with sound bites from lightning victim,
   doctor who treats lightning victims, lightning PSA and NOAA spokesman.
   See below on how to obtain a copy of Beta-SP video.

   The campaign was announced today at a news conference at the Buick
   Classic Golf Tournament in Harrison, N.Y. It marks the kick-off of the
   first-ever nationwide Lightning Awareness Week (June 18-22).

   Officials said the campaign's theme, "Lightning Kills, Play It Safe,"
   sends a strong, clear message. "Never ignore the risk of being struck
   by lightning." said Scott B. Gudes, NOAA's acting administrator.

   "We can all learn something from the pros," Gudes said. The PGA TOUR
   has teamed up with meteorologists from The Weather Channel to help
   ensure immediate detection of lightning and hazardous conditions that
   would threaten the safety of players and fans. The bottom line is 'if
   there's lightning in the area, then tournament play is postponed."

   Mediate, star of the awareness campaign's public service announcement
   and safety posters, said the PGA TOUR's partnership with NOAA will help
   target crucial safety messages to people engaged in outdoor
   activities—from sports and concerts to picnics.

   "Lightning death statistics are startling," Mediate said. "Whether
   you're a golfer, or someone who just enjoys being outdoors, we can all
   guard against being hit. Education and preparation are key."

   During the past 30 years, lightning strikes have killed an average of
   73 people each year—more than the annual number of fatalities caused by
   tornadoes or hurricanes. In 2000, 51 were fatally hit by lightning,
   compared to 37 flood casualties and 29 tornado deaths.

   NOAA Lightning photo Lightning casualties occur year-round, although
   the summer months are the most dangerous. Lightning killed one person
   in Louisiana, one in Florida, and injured seven others in Florida
   during recent storms. The Sunshine State leads the nation in lightning
   strikes, with a daily average of more than 3,500, and ranks first in
   lightning-related deaths. (Click NOAA image for larger view.)


   Overall, 25 million cloud-to-ground lightning strikes occur in the
   United States each year, according to the latest research.

   Safety at golf tournaments is of paramount concern. Each of the more
   than 120 events contested on the PGA TOUR, SENIOR PGA TOUR, and BUY.COM
   TOUR are staffed with an on-site meteorologist from The Weather
   Channel. As the "Official Forecaster of the PGA TOUR," The Weather
   Channel provides crucial up-to-the-minute weather information to
   tournament staff. Armed with a sophisticated on-site lightning
   detection system and computer weather data which pinpoints conditions
   directly over the golf course, The Weather Channel meteorologists help
   ensure the safety of competitors, tournament staff and volunteers, and
   thousands of golf fans.

   NOAA's weather service issues forecasts for thunderstorms as far as
   seven days in advance, and provides severe weather warnings for
   specific locations within minutes of a storm's arrival.

   "All thunderstorms have the potential to produce lightning, so it's up
   to all of us to heed the warnings," Gudes said.

   Last spring, Michael Utley, an amateur golfer who joined NOAA and
   Mediate at the news conference, was struck by lightning 15 seconds
   after an advanced lightning detector alarm sounded on a golf course in
   Cape Cod, Mass. Though he has no memory of the incident, witnesses said
   the lightning bolt blew Utley's shoes off. Paramedics twice brought him
   back to life on the way to the hospital. Utley spent 38 days in
   intensive care and nearly three months in physical rehabilitation.

   Utley credits his golf partner's CPR skills with saving his life. "If
   he hadn't been there, I would have died," he said. Today Utley
   struggles to walk with a cane and has lost his sense of balance because
   of the incident. "My story should be a wake-up call for others about
   how dangerous and unpredictable lightning is," Utley said. "You have to
   be lightning aware whenever you're outdoors."

   Dr. Mary Ann Cooper, director of the Lightning Injury Research Program
   at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said Utley's story mirrors
   the 90 percent of lightning-strike victims who survive but live to face
   difficult challenges.

   "The most damaging consequences of a lightning strike are seen in the
   lives of the survivors," Cooper said. "Many survivors must re-learn
   basic motor skills. Michael Utley is a miracle. He beat all of the odds
   by still being alive." Cooper also addressed a common myth about
   lightning. "Lightning-strike victims don't die from burns, but from
   cardiac arrest. The victims aren't electrified, so it is safe to
   administer CPR immediately."

   NOTE TO MEDIA: Copies of the lightning PSA, featuring Rocco Mediate,
   and B-Roll footage of lightning and thunderstorms are available from
   Video Transfer, (301) 881-0270. The PSA is also available for TV
   stations from NOAA Public Affairs at (301) 713-0622.

   Relevant Web Sites
   NOAA's Lightning Awareness — contains survivor stories, graphics and
   media information
   Avoiding the Risks of Deadly Lightning Strikes — (You'll need Adobe
   Acrobat Reader.)
   NOAA's Storm Watch — Get the latest severe weather information across
   the USA
   National Weather Warnings
   USA Weather Threats
   NOAA's Weather Page
   NOAA Lightning Photos
   Media Contacts:
   Curtis Carey, NOAA's National Weather Service, (301) 713-0622 or Robert
   Chartuk, NOAA's National Weather Service Eastern Region, (631) 244-0166
