http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/ams01/paper/D3D_for_the_NWS.html

   1.4     D3D: A Potential 3D Visualization Tool for the National Weather
                                   Service

 Edward J. Szoke *, U. Herbert Grote, Patrice C. Kucera, Paula T. McCaslin,
                 Philip A. McDonald*, and William F. Roberts

            NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory   Boulder, Colorado


                   1.     INTRODUCTION

       A visualization tool, D3D (Display Three Dimensions) could
   potentially add 3D visualization capabilities to the National Weather
   Service (NWS) forecast offices. The Forecast Systems Laboratory (FSL)
   has taken the University of Wisconsin's Vis5D software (Hibbard and
   Santek, 1991) and enhanced its capabilities and changed its graphical
   interface to appear very much like the Advanced Weather Interactive
   Processing System (AWIPS) D2D system (MacDonald and Wakefield, 1996;
   Wakefield, 1998), which is currently a part of every NWS Weather
   Forecast Office (WFO). The motivation for the development of this
   workstation application is the need to examine the value of 3D
   visualization in an operational forecast setting. Our current version
   of D3D (McCaslin et al., 2000) displays gridded output (analysis and
   output fields in AWIPS netCDF format) from the operational models
   available on AWIPS, as well as analyses from the Local Analysis and
   Prediction System (LAPS, McGinley et al., 1991). It is also capable of
   displaying output from a local-scale model that is run at FSL. Test
   versions of radar displays have also been demonstrated (Roberts and
   Longmore, 1999), but are not yet available in a real-time framework.

       We have looked at the D3D workstation application critically over
   time and have invited others to do so as well. At the IIPS conference
   in 1999 (McCaslin et al., 1999), we presented our initial efforts on
   the development of D3D and our first forecast exercise. In the summer
   of 1998 a limited exercise, called RT98, was conducted to test the
   application and involved local FSL staff and a few forecasters from the
   Denver (now Boulder) WFO. There were a number of suggestions for
   potential and/or improved products and displays that resulted from
   RT98, but the overall response to D3D was very positive, even though we
   used an earlier version of AWIPS that sometimes resulted in rather slow
   response to D3D commands.

       Since RT98 the D3D interface has continued to evolve to where most
   of the Vis5D GUIs are no longer in place and the overall appearance is
   quite close to the D2D interface. We therefore felt that the next
   logical step in D3D development would be to expose the package to a
   wider variety of users via a more formal forecast exercise, much as was
   done in the early development days of D2D. Thus an exercise called RT99
   was carried out from October to December 1999 at FSL, with one
   forecaster invited from each of the NWS six Regions, and from four of
   the National Centers. All but one participant was able to attend RT99,
   a much more comprehensive exercise than RT98, consisting of two weeks
   of training and D3D use with both real-time and delayed real-time
   cases. The exercise generated an extensive volume of evaluation
   material, from input on the D3D interface to potential value of 3D
   visualization to the forecast process. This paper summarizes the
   results of RT99, describes some recent improvements to the D3D software
   based on suggestions from the exercise, and presents our views on the
   next steps that might be undertaken with D3D.


                   2.     REAL-TIME EXERCISE 99

                   2.1 Overview of RT99

       The RT99 exercise was much more comprehensive and formal than the
   previous one (RT98). As noted earlier, forecasters came from all over
   the country, including Alaska. Three sessions were run from October
   into mid-December. The first two sessions were two weeks long, and the
   last was a somewhat "condensed" version that lasted one full week. For
   the full exercises, Week 1 focused on training users to become
   proficient with the system using specific exercises with real-time and
   case data, and included comparison to D2D. Week 2 focused on evaluating
   D3D as an operational forecast system using three cases.

       We decided (in part based on results from RT98) that a full week of
   training-type activities was required since many aspects of the D3D
   visualization software package take time to comprehend. On day 1,
   participants were given a demonstration of the system using real-time
   data. This was followed by step-by-step instructions on how to use the
   system including loading and examining data. We took the approach of
   moving from left to right along the menubar and toolbar introducing all
   system options. (The menubar and toolbar can be seen at the top of the
   image in Figure 5.) Tools used to display data were the focus of the
   afternoon. We tried to follow the D3D User's Guide fairly closely for
   the training on Day 1. Essentially, by the end of Day 1 the forecasters
   had gone over all the aspects of D3D, including all the tools, but of
   course had very limited time to use them independently. Thus, the
   remainder of the week (Days 2 through 5) was dedicated to intensively
   study the visualization (rendering) techniques. There are essentially
   five such techniques in D3D (one could actually list seven separate
   techniques in Vis5D, but for our training they were grouped into five):
   1) isosurfaces, 2) cross sections and plan views, 3) soundings and the
   probe, 4) trajectories, and 5) volume visualization. Given this
   grouping the participants concentrated on one new technique each day,
   except on Day 5 when both trajectories and volume visualization were
   covered, with a half-day for each.

       The first task on each day was to review loading a parameter with a
   visualization tool and modifying the properties of that parameter. This
   was instructor-led with time for the user to perform the activity and
   ask questions. Following this, learning modules were then used to
   instruct participants to load a series of complex products. The
   afternoons consisted of viewing both real-time and delayed real-time
   data, creating various products that addressed questions a forecaster
   might ask when examining analysis and model output. Included in this
   activity were comparisons with similar fields using D2D, which gave the
   participants a view of features in a more familiar setting and a chance
   to assess whether there were any advantages in using D3D.

       As noted, during this learning phase participants were limited to
   one new visualization tool per day. For example, Tuesday the focus was
   isosurfaces. This encouraged thorough exploration of parameters using
   only isosurfaces. Exploration included isosurfaces colored by a second
   parameter, multiple isosurfaces at varying threshold values, and a new
   capability, isosurfaces contoured by a second parameter. One of the
   cases used during the first week was the 3 May 99 tornado outbreak
   event, another was a hurricane that brushed the East Coast. An example
   of an exercise might be for the forecaster to create an isosurface of
   wind speed at a particular level, make it more complex by displaying
   several values of wind speed (using levels of transparency), followed
   by adding isosurfaces of various forcing fields such as divergence,
   vertical motion, etc. Initially on each day the next new tool
   introduced was treated separately, but as the day went on the exercises
   included combining the new tool with any previously learned tools. In
   this manner the forecaster was able to remain active in using tools
   already learned, while by the end of the week able to use all the
   available tools in D3D. Evaluation questions were included within the
   various exercises, as well as an overall evaluation at the end of each
   day.

       For the one-week version of the RT99 exercise, we did not have the
   luxury of this somewhat more relaxed pace. However, it was decided that
   the initial Day 1 training was very critical, so this was kept
   unchanged, while the exercises with the tools were condensed from four
   days into one, still following the idea of introducing tools one at a
   time.

       Week 2 began (Monday) with an extensive review of D3D, which was
   found to be useful after a weekend away from the application. The
   exercise then focused on three cases presented in "delayed real-time"
   (DRT) mode, where the forecaster is allowed to only look at
   observations and models through a given time, then a forecast is made,
   then the "clock" advanced so that one can examine data farther ahead in
   time, another forecast made, etc. The cases chosen were a summer
   convective case (the Salt Lake City tornado event of 11 August 99), a
   winter case (the October 1997 blizzard in CO/WY and farther east), and
   another more obscure convective case with supercell storms in CO/WY on
   25-27 June 99. Approximately one full day was allotted for each case.
   Both D2D and D3D were available for use, and while the participants
   were encouraged to use D3D, they were free to choose whatever tools
   they deemed would be of use for the particular forecast problem on
   either system. As with any DRT type case, forecaster recognition of the
   event can be a problem when trying to emulate a real forecast
   environment. To deal with this, aspects of the cases were chosen that
   were not necessarily the "main event." Additionally, we were really not
   concerned with the forecasts per se as much as how the participants
   used D3D in the forecast process.

      In addition to the cases, about a half day was allotted to having
   the participants, in teams of two, lead one of FSL's daily weather
   briefings. This was another way to simulate real-time usage with a
   deadline (1100 LT for the 30 min briefing). However, for the one-week
   exercise in December we were not able to have participation in the
   briefing, but were able to allow almost the same amount of time for the
   cases. Finally, evaluation was of course a very important aspect of
   RT99, and there were questionnaires to accompany each case. The
   forecasters also could use an electronic notepad to record any thoughts
   at any time, which proved to be popular and enabled more spontaneous
   reactions to be recorded. At the end of the exercise there was a very
   comprehensive written final questionnaire, then the exercise concluded
   with a 2-3 hour somewhat informal discussion. In the next section we
   briefly summarize some of the collected responses.

                   2.2 A brief summary of RT99 feedback



       The overall impression of D3D among the participants in RT99 was
   extremely positive, to the point that most wanted to take the
   application back to their WFO or Regional Office in its current state.
   This is not to say that there was not a large number of suggestions for
   improvement of D3D, which are summarized below along with a discussion
   of features found most appealing.

       Probably the most unique aspect of D3D, compared to how
   meteorologists are accustomed to viewing the atmosphere in
   two-dimensions (as with a system like D2D), is the isosurface, which
   allows for fields to be presented as 3D surfaces. Participants in RT99
   found this type of presentation quite interesting and also very
   illustrative in terms of visualizing the atmosphere, but they also
   noted that it would take some time for forecasters to determine how
   best to use this feature. They suggested that training would be most
   useful in this area, with development (perhaps at the local WFO level)
   of suggested combinations of isosurfaces that would be most useful for
   diagnosing various weather problems. Some even noted they would have
   liked to see such instruction as part of RT99, but we purposely avoided
   such training detail since we were seeking how the meteorologists would
   choose to display the information with D3D. In addition to this
   unfamiliarity with how best to use such a 3D product, another problem
   involved difficulty in georeferencing in some situations. For example,
   an isosurface of wind speed at some level (an upper-level "jet") was a
   logical field to display as an isosurface with D3D, but when viewed at
   a skewed angle it was impossible to tell the position of the jet
   relative to the ground. To help with this problem, which was also noted
   from the RT98 exercise, a convenient way to quickly switch back and
   forth from the current view to an overhead view for determining
   position was developed via button selections on the toolbar.

       While the participants felt that isosurfaces could be useful in an
   operational environment, to both visualize atmospheric processes and
   quickly find features, many were as impressed with the other
   applications in the D3D package. In fact, comments from RT99 indicated
   as much or even greater use of other features of the D3D package, which
   are really D2D-like applications but with more flexibility for quick
   perusal of a lot of information. These features included the movable
   cross sections and plan views, and the sounding tool (which could also
   display other parameters as a line plot in height). While each of these
   features have analogous D2D features, the ability to quickly move a
   plan view, cross section, or sounding through a volume of model output
   brought a new aspect to these tools. Together with isosurfaces, the
   users felt the main operational utility of D3D was the ability to
   quickly peruse a large amount of information, which should allow
   operational forecasters to better focus on the important aspects of a
   forecast problem more quickly, and with less of a chance of missing
   some critical feature because they failed to examine the "correct"
   level or the most appropriate cross section. One of the main
   suggestions for the cross-section tool was to have flexibility in
   determining the end points of the cross section, currently set by Vis5D
   to lie somewhere at the edge of the displayed area. One feature, again
   added after RT98, was the ability to link different fields to the same
   cross section or plan view. This added quantitativeness to a cross
   section by linking it with a height or pressure scale, as well as the
   ability to move a single cross section composed of multiple fields
   across the volume as one unit.

       One tool that was universally very appealing and generated much
   interest was the sounding tool, particularly the basic SkewT display of
   temperate, dewpoint, and wind (see Figure 1 for an example).
   Forecasters found it quite exciting to be able to move the vertical
   sounding line across the domain and see an instant display of the
   sounding (in D2D, one selects points where soundings will be
   displayed), and felt this would be a highly utilized operational tool.
   Given the high use of this application, lots of suggestions were
   offered regarding improvements, such as a hodograph display and a
   listing of important parameters for assessing severe weather potential.
   Our implementation of these suggestions is included in Section 2.3.

       The suggestions for the sounding tool echoed an overall theme to
   much of the feedback from RT99, which was to continue to advance D3D so
   that it appears more like D2D where possible. This was viewed as
   important in order to reduce the amount of training needed by
   forecasters to use the system, allowing instead for the training to
   concentrate more on the meteorological use of features like
   isosurfaces. D2D-type features the forecasters asked for included more
   control of the output (through control of line style or length of a
   cross section), output variables that matched those on D2D, a new color
   editor like that in D2D (versus the Vis5D editor used for the
   exercises), and map scales that match those in D2D.

   [D3D_for_the_NWS-1.gif]

   Figure 1. New D3D Sounding and Hodograph.

       The main criticisms of D3D from RT99 included an absence of
   observed data, and the need to be able to examine more than one model
   at a time. The latter problem is addressed in a more recent version of
   the Vis5D software, which allows for a linked multiple window display.
   The display of actual data is somewhat more problematic in terms of how
   best to portray. Vis5D was developed for display of three-dimensional
   data volumes, such as output from a numerical model. Analyses in such
   3D volumes, like those from LAPS, are also easily displayed. The best
   way to include point data (such as input from soundings or surface
   stations), however, is not clear. One could certainly display it on
   surfaces as is done in D2D, but it could be argued that this should
   remain the function of D2D. Presumably, one might envision merging the
   systems so that the forecaster can freely move from D2D to D3D. Radar
   data are produced in volumes (though of irregularly spaced data) that
   would seem a natural for D3D, and as noted exploration of such radar
   displays is underway at FSL (Roberts and Longmore, 1999) and elsewhere.
   Clouds might also be displayed with Vis5D from input via satellite
   data, and promising work is underway in this area (for example, see the
   NASA web site http://rsd.gsfc.nasa.gov/rsd ).


     [D3D_for_the_NWS-2.gif]

   Figure 2. Equivalent potential temperature isosurface colored and
   contoured by pressure, and a potential temperature isosurface
   displaying wind barbs on its surface.

       Among other concerns from the exercise was the agreement that the
   application must be used on a machine capable of yielding quick
   displays and response, due to the highly interactive nature of many of
   the D3D tools. Experience by many of the participants on somewhat
   slower systems when preparing their Daily Weather Briefing was more
   than enough to convince them of the need for good performance. It was
   clearly determined that it would be impossible to effectively run both
   D3D and D2D on the current AWIPS hardware. Training was noted as a need
   as well, since meteorologists are not accustomed to looking at
   phenomena in three dimensions.


                   2.3 Software Development

       Recent improvements to D3D have been based primarily on exercise
   results and user feedback. The summary of improvements starts with
   porting the application to a PC/Linux. This accomplishment improved
   performance and holds the promise of more increases in performance as
   advances in PC software and hardware technology develop. It also makes
   the product accessible to more users. Most exercise participants were
   very enthusiastic about acquiring a PC/Linux version to continue use of
   the application when the distribution CD became available. During the
   porting to Linux, D3D's core was upgraded from Vis5D 4.3 to Vis5D 5.1.
   This upgrade added data clipping planes and the potential for multiple
   data display contexts.

       The ever-popular sounding tool now includes an optional hodograph
   display (Figure 1). Future enhancements will be the ability to plot
   user-selected parameters, sampled in the vertical column, and the
   display of derived parameters (e.g. helicity), like those offered by
   D2D.

       We have developed the ability to add glyphs (wind barbs,
   streamlines and contour lines) on top of an isosurface. Figure 2 shows
   a 3D 310 K potential temperature isosurface colored and contoured by
   pressure from the Eta model valid for 0000 UTC 20 Sept 2000. It also
   shows a 298 K potential temperature isosurface displaying wind barbs on
   its surface. Only isosurfaces that are relatively smooth and have only
   one value for each horizontal location (typically those of pressure,
   height, temperature, etc.) are good candidates for this technique.
   These criteria are sometimes referred to collectively as a "well
   behaved" isosurface. Isosurfaces of relative humidity values or
   divergence, for example, are inconsistent throughout a 3D grid and are
   not smooth nor, often, large enough to generate meaningful or
   intelligible glyphs on their surface.

       Since RT99, the D3D interface has continued to evolve to a point
   where the Vis5D GUIs are no longer necessary, and the overall
   appearance is much closer to the D2D interface, developed using Tcl/Tk.
   The Colors Editor allows the user to customize the color(s) for a
   particular object and has a Color Wheel, Red/Green/Blue/Opacity Slider
   Bars, Brightness Bar, and a Color Swatch (Figure 3). Adjusting the
   Color Wheel Centroid or Slider Bars generates the desired color in the
   Color Swatch, or a specific RGB value can be entered, allowing
   incremental changes in the amount of red, green, blue, saturation and
   brightness that is present in the color displayed in the Color Swatch.
   It allows the user more flexibility to edit colors than does the Vis5D
   Color Editor interface (Figure 4), for example, the user can now create
   color banding. Note, color editors in Figures 3 and 4 reflect the same
   color table used to color the surface specific humidity field displayed
   in Figure 5.

     [D3D_for_the_NWS-3.gif]

   Figure 3. D3D Colors Editor.


     [D3D_for_the_NWS-4.gif]

   Figure 4. Vis5D Color Editor.


     [D3D_for_the_NWS-5.gif]

   Figure 5. Surface Specific Humidity RUC 1500 14 Sept 00.



                   3.     FUTURE EFFORTS

       A number of improvements have been made to D3D based on the results
   of RT99. FSL will continue to analyze the feedback from the exercise to
   identify other areas for improvements in D3D. The software performed
   well and participants were ready to install the software back at their
   home site. However, some work remained, such as preparing a
   distribution version of the software and evaluating the potential
   impact of the software on the operational AWIPS system. Both of these
   tasks were accomplished by late 2000.

       Based on the positive feedback from the exercise, the decision was
   made to test D3D at selected operational sites, where its use for a
   wide variety of forecast problems should generate an excellent cross
   section of operationally oriented feedback. This test will provide
   greater confidence that the D3D system will be of use to operational
   forecasters and potentially open the door for wider use within the NWS.
   The NWS has begun the process of establishing D3D test sites at several
   WFOs in the Southern Region as well as Regional Centers. FSL's port of
   D3D to a PC/Linux platform should allow the sites to acquire at least
   one test workstation at relatively low costs. FSL is implementing
   methods to evaluate D3D usage and to collect feedback from the various
   users. The internet provides a powerful way to exchange information by
   email, list servers, and other means. This will allow users in
   different areas to examine common problems that may arise, and FSL to
   more easily serve the different sites.

       The next major D3D development will be to incorporate the latest
   version of Vis5D with its support for a multiple window environment.
   This will make it possible to compare different models, and potentially
   allow for displays of nongridded data in D3D. The D3D development has
   made significant progress toward meeting the needs of operational
   forecasters, and D3D can be another powerful tool for operational
   forecasters in preparing their daily weather forecasts.


                   4.     ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

       We wish to thank the following FSL staff for their work in
   successfully carrying out RT99, Scott Longmore and Cindy Lusk with the
   evaluation effort, and Susan Williams, Joe Wakefield, Amenda Stanley,
   and Darien Davis for keeping the real-time and case data feeds
   reliable. We also thank COMET and the Boulder WFO for helping with the
   pre-exercise shakedown, and acknowledge the invited participants in
   RT99: Jordan Alpert, NCEP/EMC; Tim Barker, Missoula, Montana WFO; Scott
   Entrekin, Boulder WFO; John Hart, NCEP/SPC; James Hayes, Grey, Maine
   WFO; Larry Hinson, NCEP/AWC; Jim Johnson, Dodge City, Kansas WFO;
   Lawrence Lahiff, NCEP/TPC; Steve Listemaa, NCEP/HPC; Tom Paylor, OM/NWS
   Headquarters; Scott Plischke, Amarillo, Texas WFO; and Carven Scott,
   Anchorage, Alaska WFO.


                    5.     REFERENCES


       Forecast Systems Laboratory, 1999, D3D User Guide
   http://www.fsl.noaa.gov/~osborn/d3d/D3DUG_TC.html

       Forecast Systems Laboratory, 2000, D3D homepage
   http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov

       Forecast Systems Laboratory Evaluation Team, 2000: RT99 D3D
   Evaluation Final Questionnaire Catalog of Results (draft), 130 pp.

       McCaslin, P.T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J. Szoke, 2000: 3D
   Visualization Development at NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory. AMC
   SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics, February 2000, Vol. 34 No. 1, 41-44.

       McCaslin, P.T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J. Szoke, 1999: Developing
   and Testing a 3D Visualization Workstation Application at FSL.
   Preprints, 15th International Conference on Interactive Information and
   Processing Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and Hydrology ,
   Dallas, TX. Amer. Meteor. Soc., 498-501.

       Hibbard, W. R. and D. Santek, 1991: The Vis5D system for easy
   interactive visualization. Preprints, Seventh International Conference
   on Interactive Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology,
   Oceanography, and Hydrology , New Orleans, LA. Amer. Meteor. Soc.,
   129-134.

       MacDonald, A. E., and J. S., Wakefield, 1996: WFO-Advanced: An
   AWIPS-like Prototype Forecaster Workstation. Preprints, 12th
   International Conference on Interactive Information and Processing
   Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and Hydrology , Atlanta, GA.
   Amer. Meteor. Soc., 254-258.

       McGinley, J.A., S.C. Albers, and P.A. Stamus, 1991: Validation of a
   composite convective index as defined by a real-time local analysis
   system. Weather and Forecasting. 6, 337-356.

       Roberts, W.F., and S.P. Longmore, 1999: Real-time visualization
   techniques for a regional radar volume. Preprints, 29th International
   Conference on Radar Meteorology, Montreal, Canada. Amer. Meteor. Soc.,
   225-228.

       Wakefield, J.S., 1998: Operational Risk Reduction: Easing AWIPS
   into the Field. Preprints, 14th International Conference on Interactive
   Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and
   Hydrology , Phoenix, AZ. Amer. Meteor. Soc., 389-391.
     __________________________________________________________________

   * Joint collaboration with the Cooperative Institute for  Research in
   the Atmosphere, Colorado State University, Fort  Collins, Colorado
   80523. Corresponding author address:  Ed Szoke, NOAA/ERL/FSL R/E/FS1,
   325 Broadway,  Boulder, CO 80305-3328; e-mail: szoke@fsl.noaa.gov
