http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/upi0626inda.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit Photo Gallery


                      Ban on new Net taxes gets support

                         United Press International

                                June 26, 2001

   By Scott Burnell
   WASHINGTON, June 26 (UPI) -- There is widespread support for
   legislation to continue a moratorium on federal Internet access taxes
   and e-commerce levies but lawmakers Tuesday were concerned the bills do
   not deal with state sales and use taxes.
   The House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law
   came to order on two bills, H.R. 1552 and H.R. 1675, both titled the
   "Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act."
   The bills, which have companion legislation in the Senate, refer to the
   Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998, which put a three-year moratorium on
   Net-related taxes that expires in late October. The bills would make
   the moratorium permanent.
   Rep. Bob Barr, R-Ga., the subcommittee chairman, said Internet-related
   industries account for 35 percent of the United States' real economic
   growth and e-commerce retail sales could reach $40 billion by year's
   end.
   "While the government deserves some of the credit for helping create
   the infrastructure for the new digital economy, excessive regulation
   and taxation threaten to impede (the Net's) tremendous commercial
   potential," Barr said. "Recent weakness in the technology sector
   underlines the importance of maintaining a stable and nondiscriminatory
   taxing regime, in which electronic merchants can successfully compete."

   Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., the ranking Judiciary Committee member,
   said most legislators agree on the Net tax issue and then started a
   discussion on state tax procedures. He said excluding e-commerce from
   sales taxes leads to an unfair advantage for e-retailers.
   "(This) hearing is on two bills that don't address the critical issue
   of allowing states to require remote retailers to collect and remit
   sales taxes," Conyers said. "Extending the moratorium without an
   attempt to streamline the tax system ... would allow the inequitable
   tax system to continue, to the detriment of both the states and the
   brick-and-mortar retailers."
   Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Calif., author of the bills under discussion
   and co-author of the original moratorium legislation, remained focused
   on what little time is left for Congress to act.
   Allowing the moratorium to lapse, he testified, would allow thousands
   of taxing jurisdictions to take a little bite out of online shoppers,
   slowly killing the Net economy.
   "We're not worried about state legislatures rushing in to enact tax
   laws the next morning," Cox said. "Virtually every single thing we're
   concerned about can be accomplished by bureaucrats ... reinterpreting
   ancient enactments of legislation that were put on the books long
   before (the Internet.)"
   Virginia Gov. James Gilmore, a Republican, and Robert Comfort, vice
   president for tax policy at Amazon.com, both testified in support of
   Cox's bills.
   Michigan Gov. John Engler, also a Republican and vice chairman of the
   National Governors Association, said the bills should move forward, but
   noted states already are working to streamline their tax systems and
   should have the right to ask Net retailers to collect appropriate
   taxes.
   "What the Internet should not be is a way for buyers and sellers of
   goods and services to avoid their obligation to pay sales or use tax,"
   Engler said.
   Most of the subcommittee's questions focused on the sales/use tax
   issue. Barr asked Cox why the bills do not address it and Cox replied
   the short time before the moratorium expires dictated addressing that
   first.
   Engler said the tax system issue was an opportunity for Congress to
   rekindle its partnership with the individual states on such matters.
   Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., asked Cox if previous legal cases regarding
   catalog sales would be of help in handling sales and use taxes online.
   "For everyone in Congress, this is a useful exercise to try and wash
   awayfrom our analysis anything that has to do with the Internet or new
   technology," Cox replied. "The legal issues we're wrestling with are
   not that new -- the issues presented by catalog sales, which have been
   with us throughout the 20th century, are essentially the same."
   Engler said past discussions of catalog sales issues, with their
   smaller financial impact, would have been a much better time to
   consider the cross-border sales/use tax puzzle.
