http://www.trade.wa.gov/whatwe.htm

                  Washington State CTED International Trade

                                What We Do...

   The mission of the International Trade Division is to assist small and
   mid size businesses in Washington State compete successfully in the
   global economy. The division provides the following services:

     * Specific product market information for individual products and
       foreign markets.
     * Technical information on product standards, licensing, labeling and
       product certification.
     * Information regarding tax, foreign investment, labor, intellectual
       property and other laws.
     * Customs regulations and procedures.
     * Business culture and social etiquette.
     * One-on-one counseling to Washington State businesses on
       international marketing, distributor qualification, export
       operations, foreign joint ventures, export financing and other
       issues.
     * Organize Washington State business missions to foreign markets and
       assist participating businesses with follow-up.
     * Organize incoming foreign buyers missions and arrange one-on-one
       meetings between visiting foreign businesses and interested
       Washington State businesses.
     * Organize workshops and seminars to provide accurate and timely
       information to Washington businesses on issues related to doing
       business abroad.


   Fading Marquis Banner showing three lines of text


     Home  What We Do Programs Foreign Contract Representatives   News &
    Events   Where is Washington  Why is Trade Important   Foreign Trade
      Zones Trade Statistics Press Releases Ports  Economic Development
      Council's  Consulates  Info & Resources   Financing Import/Export
    Guide   NASDA Listing   Publications  Washington at a Glance  Intern
     Program Employment Did you know? Sister Cities Contact Us   Access
    Washington  CTED Home   Search   Info Request   Disclaimer & Privacy
                                  Statement

     Web site designed and maintained by Jennifer Williams, e-mail with
                 questions or comments about this web site.
        Copyright © 2001 Washington State Office of Trade & Economic
                                 Development

                        Last modified: July 20, 2001

               Access Washington             [otedlogoblk.gif]
