http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpifaq.htm

 Skip Navigation Links
 Consumer Price Index                                          BLS-DOL  DOL Logo
 BLS Home • Programs & Surveys • CPI Home • Topics A-Z • Glossary •
 What's New

   Frequently Asked Questions
        __________________________________________________________________

      1. What is the CPI?

      2. How is the CPI used?

      3. Whose buying habits does the CPI reflect?

      4. Is the CPI a cost-of-living index?

      5. Does the CPI measure my experience with price change?

      6. How is the CPI market basket determined?

      7. What goods and services does the CPI cover?

      8. How are CPI prices collected and reviewed?

      9. How is the CPI calculated?

      10. How are taxes treated in the CPI?

      11. How do I read or interpret an index?

      12. Is the CPI the best measure of inflation?

      13. Which index is the "Official CPI" reported in the media?

      14. What index should I use for escalation?

      15. When should I use seasonally adjusted data?

      16. What area indexes are published, and how often?

      17. What are CPI should I use if there is no CPI for the area I live
      in?

      18. Can the CPI's for individual areas be used to compare living cost
      among the areas?

      19. What types of data are published?

      20. What are some limitations of the CPI?

      21. Will the CPI be updated or revised in the future?

      22. How can I get CPI information?

   1. What is the CPI?

      The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure of the average change over
      time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of
      consumer goods and services.

   2. How is the CPI used?

      The Consumer Price Index affects nearly all Americans because of the
      many ways it is used. Three major uses are:
        * As an economic indicator.More.
        * As a deflator of other economic series. More.
        * As a means of adjusting dollar values. More.

   3. Whose buying habits does the CPI reflect?

      The CPI reflects spending patterns for each of two population groups:
      All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) and Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers
   (CPI-W). The CPI-U represents about 87 percent of the total U.S.
   population. It is based on the expenditures of almost all residents of
   urban or metropolitan areas, including professionals, the
   self-employed, the poor, the unemployed, and retired persons as well as
   urban wage earners and clerical workers. Not included in the CPI are
   the spending patterns of persons living in rural non-metropolitan
   areas, farm families, persons in the Armed Forces, and those in
   institutions, such as prisons and mental hospitals.

   The CPI-W is based on the expenditures of households that are included
   in the CPI-U definition that also meet two requirements: More than
   one-half of the household's income must come from clerical or wage
   occupations and at least one of the household's earners must have been
   employed for at least 37 weeks during the previous 12 months. The
   CPI-W's population represents about 32 percent of the total U.S.
   population and is a subset, or part, of the CPI-U's population.

4. Is the CPI a cost-of-living index?

   The CPI frequently is called a cost-of-living index, but it differs in
   important ways from a complete cost-of-living measure. The Bureau of
   Labor Statistics (BLS or the Bureau) has for some time used a
   cost-of-living framework in making practical decisions about questions
   that arise in constructing the CPI. A cost-of-living index is a
   conceptual measurement goal, however, not a straightforward alternative
   to the CPI. A cost-of-living index would measure changes over time in
   the amount that consumers need to spend to reach a certain "utility
   level" or "standard of living." Both the CPI and a cost-of-living index
   would reflect changes in the prices of goods and services, such as food
   and clothing, that are directly purchased in the marketplace; but a
   complete cost-of-living index would go beyond this to also take into
   account changes in other governmental or environmental factors that
   affect consumers' well-being. It is very difficult to determine the
   proper treatment of public goods, such as safety and education, and
   other broad concerns, such as health, water quality, and crime that
   would comprise a complete cost-of-living framework. More.

5. Does the CPI measure my experience with price change?

   Not necessarily. It is important to understand that BLS bases the
   market baskets and pricing procedures for the CPI-U and CPI-W on the
   experience of the relevant average household, not on any specific
   family or individual. It is unlikely that your experience will
   correspond precisely with either the national indexes or those for
   specific cities or regions. More.

6. How is the CPI market basket determined?

   The CPI market basket is developed from detailed expenditure
   information provided by families and individuals on what they actually
   bought. For the current CPI, this information was collected from the
   Consumer Expenditure Survey over the three years 1993, 1994, and 1995.
   In each of these three years, more than 5,000 families from around the
   country provided information on their spending habits in a series of
   quarterly interviews. To collect information on frquently purchased
   items such as food and personal care products, another 5,00 families in
   each of the 3 years kept diaries liting everything they bought during a
   2-week period.

   Altogether, more than 30,000 individuals and families provided
   expenditure information for use in determining the importance, or
   weight, of hte over 2000 categories in the CPI index structure.

7. What goods and services does the CPI cover?

   The CPI represents all goods and services purchased for consumption by
   the reference population (CPI-U or CPI-W) BLS has classified all
   expenditure items into more than 200 categories, arranged into eight
   major groups. Major groups and examples of categories in each are as
   follows:
     * FOOD AND BEVERAGES (breakfast cereal, milk, coffee, chicken, wine,
       full service meals and snacks);
     * HOUSING (rent of primary residence, owners' equivalent rent, fuel
       oil, bedroom furniture);
     * APPAREL (men's shirts and sweaters, women's dresses, jewelry);
     * TRANSPORTATION (new vehicles, airline fares, gasoline, motor
       vehicle insurance);
     * MEDICAL CARE (prescription drugs and medical supplies, physicians'
       services, eyeglasses and eye care, hospital services);
     * RECREATION (televisions, cable television, pets and pet products,
       sports equipment, admissions);
     * EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION (college tuition, postage, telephone
       services, computer software and accessories);
     * OTHER GOODS AND SERVICES (tobacco and smoking products, haircuts
       and other personal services, funeral expenses).

   Also included within these major groups are various government-charged
   user fees, such as water and sewerage charges, auto registration fees,
   and vehicle tolls. The CPI also includes taxes (such as sales and
   excise taxes) that are directly associated with the prices of specific
   goods and services. However, the CPI excludes taxes (such as income and
   Social Security taxes) not directly associated with the purchase of
   consumer goods and services.

   The CPI does not include investment items, such as stocks, bonds, real
   estate, and life insurance. (These items relate to savings and not to
   day-to-day consumption expenses.)

   For each of the more than 200 item categories, BLS has chosen samples
   of several hundred specific items within selected business
   establishments frequented by consumers, using scientific statistical
   procedures, to represent the thousands of varieties available in the
   marketplace. For example, in a given supermarket, the Bureau may choose
   a plastic bag of golden delicious apples, U.S. extra fancy grade,
   weighing 4.4 pounds to represent the "Apples" category.

8. How are CPI prices collected and reviewed?

   Each month, BLS data collectors called economic assistants visit or
   call thousands of retail stores, service establishments, rental units,
   and doctors' offices, all over the United States to obtain price
   information on thousands of items used to track and measure price
   change in the CPI. These economic assistants record the prices of about
   80,000 items each month. These 80,000 prices represent a scientifically
   selected sample of the prices paid by consumers for the goods and
   services purchased.

   During each call or visit, the economic assistant collects price data
   on a specific good or service that was precisely defined during an
   earlier visit. If the selected item is available, the economic
   assistant records its price. If the selected item is no longer
   available, or if there have been changes in the quality or quantity
   (for example, eggs sold in packages of 8 when previously they had been
   sold by the dozen) of the good or service since the last time prices
   had been collected, the economic assistant selects a new item or
   records the quality change in the current item.

   The recorded information is sent to the national office of BLS where
   commodity specialists, who have detailed knowledge about the particular
   goods or services priced, review the data. These specialists check the
   data for accuracy and consistency and make any necessary corrections or
   adjustments. These can range from an adjustment for a change in the
   size or quantity of a packaged item to more complex adjustments based
   upon statistical analysis of the value of an item's features or
   quality. Thus, the commodity specialists strive to prevent changes in
   the quality of items from affecting the CPI's measurement of price
   change.

9. How is the CPI calculated?

   The CPI is a product of a series of interrelated samples. First, using
   data from the 1990 Census of Population, BLS selects the urban areas
   from which prices are to be collected and chooses the housing units
   within each area that are eligible for use in the shelter component of
   the CPI. The Census of Population also provides data on the number of
   consumers represented by each area selected as a CPI price collection
   area. Next, another sample (of about 16,800 families each year) serves
   as the basis for a Point-of-Purchase Survey that identifies the places
   where households purchase various types of goods and services. More.

10. How are taxes treated in the CPI?

   Certain taxes are included in the CPI, namely, taxes that are directly
   associated with the purchase of specific goods and services (such as
   sales and excise taxes). Government user fees are also included in the
   CPI. For example, toll charges and parking fees are included in our
   transportation category; and an entry fee to a national park would be
   included as part of the admissions index. In addition, property taxes
   should be reflected indirectly in the BLS method of measuring the cost
   of the flow of services provided by housing shelter, which we call
   owners' equivalent rent, to the extent that these taxes influence
   rental values. Taxes not directly asssociated with specific purchases,
   such as income and Social Security taxes, are excluded, as are the
   government services paid for through those taxes.

   For certain purposes, one might want to define price indexes to
   include, rather than exclude, income taxes. Such indexes would provide
   an answer to a different question from the one for which the present
   CPI is relevant, and would be appropriate for different uses.

11. How do I read or interpret an index?

   An index is a tool that simplifies the measurement of movements in a
   numerical series. Most of the specific CPI indexes have a 1982-84
   reference base. That is, BLS sets the average index level (representing
   the average price level)--for the 36-month period covering the years
   1982, 1983, and 1984--equal to 100. The Bureau measures changes in
   relation to that figure. An index of 110, for example, means there has
   been a 10-percent increase in price since the reference period;
   similarly an index of 90 means a 10-percent decrease. Movements of the
   index from one date to another can be expressed as changes in index
   points (simply, the difference between index levels), but it is more
   useful to express the movements as percent changes. This is because
   index points are affected by the level of the index in relation to its
   base period, while percent changes are not.

   In the following table, item A increased by half as many index points
   as item B between Year I and Year II. Yet, because of the different
   starting figures, both had the same percent change; that is, prices
   advanced at the same rate. On the other hand, items B and C show the
   same change in index points, but the percent change is greater for item
   C because of its lower starting value.
                           Item A       Item B       Item C
Year I                      112.5        225.0        110.0
Year II                     121.5        243.0        128.0
Change in index
 points                       9.0         18.0         18.0
Percent change          9.0/112.5   18.0/225.0   18.0/110.0
                        x 100=8.0    x 100=8.0   x 100=16.4

   Historically, BLS has updated its reference periods every 10 years or
   so.

12. Is the CPI the best measure of inflation?

   Inflation has been defined as a process of continuously rising prices,
   or equivalently, of a continuously falling value of money.

   Various indexes have been devised to measure different aspects of
   inflation. The CPI measures inflation as experienced by consumers in
   their day-to-day living expenses; the Producer Price Index (PPI)
   measures inflation at earlier stages of the production and marketing
   process; the Employment Cost Index (ECI) measures it in the labor
   market; the BLS' International Price Program measures it for imports
   and exports; and the Gross Domestic Product Deflator (GDP-Deflator)
   measures combine the experience with inflation of governments (Federal,
   State and local), businesses, and consumers. Finally, there are
   specialized measures, such as measures of interest rates and measures
   of consumers' and business executives' inflation expectations.

   The "best" measure of inflation for a given application depends on the
   intended use of the data. The CPI is generally the best measure for
   adjusting payments to consumers when the intent is to allow consumers
   to purchase, at today's prices, a market basket of goods and services
   equivalent to one that they could purchase in an earlier period. It is
   also the best measure to use to translate retail sales and hourly or
   weekly earnings into real or inflation-free dollars.

13. Which index is the "Official CPI" reported in the media?

   Each month, BLS releases thousands of detailed CPI numbers to the
   media. However the media usually focuses on the broadest, most
   comprehensive CPI. This is "The Consumer Price Index for All Urban
   Consumers (CPI-U) for the U.S. City Average for All Items,
   1982-84=100." These data are reported on either a seasonally adjusted,
   or not seasonally adjusted, basis. Often, the media will report some,
   or all, of the following:
    1. the index level (for example, August 1999=167.1).
    2. the 12-month percent change (for example, August 1998 to August
       1999=2.3 percent).
    3. the 1-month percent change on a seasonally adjusted basis (for
       example, from July 1999 to August 1999=0.3 percent).
    4. the annual rate of percent change so far this year (for example,
       from December 1998 to August 1999 if the rate of increase over the
       first 8 months of the year continued for the full year, after the
       removal of seasonal influences, the rise would be 3.1 percent).
    5. the annual rate based on the latest seasonally adjusted 1-month
       change. For example, if the July 1999 to August 1999 rate continued
       for a full 12 months, the rise, compounded, would be 3.7 percent.

14. What index should I use for escalation?

   The decision to employ an escalation mechanism, as well as the choice
   of the most suitable index, is up to the user. When drafting the terms
   of an escalation provision for use in a contract to adjust future
   payments, both legal and statistical questions can arise. While BLS
   cannot help in any matters relating to legal questions, it does provide
   basic technical and statistical assistance to users who are developing
   indexing procedures. More.

15. When should I use seasonally adjusted data?

   By using seasonally adjusted data, economic analysts and the media find
   it easier to see the underlying trend in short-term price change. It is
   often difficult to tell from raw (unadjusted) statistics whether
   developments between any 2 months reflect changing economic conditions
   or only normal seasonal patterns. Therefore, many economic series,
   including the CPI, are seasonally adjusted to remove the effect of
   seasonal influences. Seasonal influences are those that occur at the
   same time and in about the same magnitude every year. They include
   price movements resulting from changing climatic conditions, production
   cycles, model changeovers, and holidays.

   BLS annually re-estimates the factors that are used to seasonally
   adjust CPI data, and seasonally adjusted indexes that have been
   published earlier are subject to revision for up to 5 years after their
   original release. Therefore, unadjusted data are more appropriate for
   escalation purposes.

16. What area indexes are published, and how often?

   Besides monthly publication of the national (or U.S. City Average)
   CPI-U and CPI-W, monthly indexes are also published for the four
   regions--Northeast, Midwest (formerly North Central), South, and West.
   Monthly indexes are also published for urban areas classified by
   population size--all metropolitan areas over 1.5 million, metropolitan
   areas smaller than 1.5 million, and all nonmetropolitan urban areas.
   Indexes also are available within each region, cross-classified by area
   population size. For the Northeast and West, however, indexes for
   nonmetropolitan areas are not available. BLS also publishes indexes for
   26 local areas. Local area indexes are byproducts of the national CPI
   program. Each local index has a much smaller sample size than the
   national or regional indexes, and is, therefore, subject to
   substantially more sampling and other measurement error. As a result,
   local area indexes are more volatile than the national or regional
   indexes. Therefore, BLS strongly urges users to consider adopting the
   national or regional CPI's for use in escalator clauses. If used with
   caution, local area CPI data can illustrate and explain the impact of
   local economic conditions on consumers' experience with price change.
   Local area data are available on the following schedule.

   BLS publishes three major metropolitan areas monthly:
     * Chicago-Gary-Kenosha, IL-IN-WI
     * Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County, CA
     * New York-Northern NJ-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT-PA

   Data for an additional 11 metropolitan areas are published every other
   month [on an odd (January, March, etc.) or even (February, April, etc.)
   month schedule] for the following areas:
     * Atlanta, GA (even)
     * Boston-Brockton-Nashua, MA-NH-ME-CT (odd)
     * Cleveland-Akron, OH (odd)
     * Dallas-Fort Worth, TX (odd)
     * Detroit-Ann Arbor-Flint, MI (even)
     * Houston-Galveston-Brazoria, TX (even)
     * Miami-Fort Lauderdale, FL (even)
     * Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-DE-MD (even)
     * San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CA (even)
     * Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton, WA (even)
     * Washington-Baltimore, DC-MD-VA-WV (odd)

   (Note: The designation even or odd refers to the month during which the
   area's price change is measured. Due to the time needed for processing,
   data are released 2 to 3 weeks into the following month.)

   Data are published for another group of 12 metropolitan areas on a
   semiannual basis. These indexes, which refer to the arithmetic average
   for the 6-month periods from January through June and July through
   December, are published with release of the CPI for July and January,
   respectively, in August and February for:
     * Anchorage, AK
     * Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN
     * Denver-Boulder-Greely, CO
     * Honolulu, HI
     * Kansas City, MO-KS
     * Milwaukee-Racine, WI
     * Minneapolis-St, Paul, MN-WI
     * Pittsburgh, PA
     * Portland-Salem, OR-WA
     * St. Louis, MO-IL
     * San Diego, CA
     * Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL

17. What area CPI should I use if there is no CPI for the area I live in?

   Although the BLS can provide some guidance on this question, users must
   make the final decision.

   As noted in the answers to Questions 14 and 16, BLS strongly urges the
   use of the national or regional CPI's for use in escalator clauses.
   These indexes are more stable and subject to less sampling and other
   measurement error than are local area indexes and, therefore, more
   statistically reliable.

18. Can the CPIs for individual areas be used to compare living costs among
the areas?

   No, an individual area index measures how much prices have changed over
   a specific time period in that particular area. It does not show
   whether prices or living costs are higher or lower in that area
   relative to another. In general, the composition of the marketbasket
   and relative prices of goods and services in the marketbasket during
   the expenditure base period vary substantially across areas. More.

19. What types of data are published?

   There are many types of data published as outputs from the CPI program.
   The most popular are indexes and percent changes. Requested less often
   are relative importance (or relative expenditure weight) data, base
   conversion factors (to convert from one CPI reference period to
   another), seasonal factors (the monthly factors used to convert
   unadjusted indexes into seasonally adjusted indexes), and average food
   and energy prices. Index and price change data are available for the
   U.S. city average (or national average), for various geographic areas
   (regions and metropolitan areas), for national population size classes
   of urban areas, and for cross-classifications of regions and size
   classes. Indexes for various groupings of items are available for all
   geographic areas and size classes.

   There are individual indexes available for more than 200 items (e.g.,
   apples, men's shirts, airline fares), and over 120 different
   combinations of items (e.g., fruits and vegetables, food at home, food
   and beverages, and All items), at the national or U.S. city average
   level. BLS classifies consumer items into eight major groups: food and
   beverages, housing, apparel, transportation, medical care, recreation,
   education and communication, and other goods and services. (Some
   indexes are available as far back as 1913.)

   Each month, indexes are published along with short-term percent
   changes, the latest 12-month change and, at the national item and group
   level, unadjusted and (where appropriate) seasonally adjusted percent
   changes (and seasonal factors), together with annualized rates of
   change. These annualized rates indicate what the rate of change would
   be for a 12-month period, if a price change measured for a shorter
   period continued for a full 12 months.

   The answer to question 16 provides information about the areas and size
   classes for which indexes are published. For areas, BLS publishes less
   detailed groupings of items than it does for the national level. The
   following table illustrates this point:
Atlanta, GA                   U.S. City Average

All items                     All items
   Food and beverages            Food and beverages
      Food                          Food
         Food at home                  Food at home
                                          Cereals and bakery products
                                             Cereals and cereal products
                                                Flour and prepared flour mixes
                                                Breakfast cereal
                                                Rice, pasta, and corn meal
                                                  Rice
                                            Bakery products
                                                Bread
                                                   White bread
                                                   Other breads
                                                Fresh biscuits, rolls, muffins
                                                Cakes, cupcakes, and cookies
                                                   Cookies
                                                   Fresh cakes and cupcakes
                                                Other bakery products
                                                   Fresh sweetrolls, coffeecakes
, and doughnuts
                                                   Crackers, bread, and  cracker
 products
                                                   Frozen and refrigerated baker
y products, pies, tarts, turnovers

   Annual average indexes and percent changes for these groupings are
   published at the national and local levels.

   Semiannual average indexes and percent changes for some of these
   groupings are also published.

   Each month, BLS publishes average price data for some food items (for
   the U.S. and 4 regions) and for some energy items (for the U.S., 4
   regions, 3 size-classes, 10 cross-classifications of regions and
   size-classes, and 14 metropolitan areas).

20. What are some limitations of the CPI?

   The CPI is subject to both limitations in application and limitations
   in measurement.

   Limitations of application

   The CPI may not be applicable to all population groups. For example,
   the CPI-U is designed to measure the experience with price change of
   the U.S. urban population and, thus, may not accurately reflect the
   experience of people living in rural areas. Also, the CPI does not
   produce official estimates for the rate of inflation experienced by
   subgroups of the population, such as the elderly or the poor. (BLS does
   produce and release an experimental index for the elderly population.
   However, because of the significant limitations of this experimental
   index, it should be interpreted with caution.)

   As noted in the answer to question 18, the CPI cannot be used to
   measure differences in price levels or living costs between one place
   and another; it measures only time-to-time changes in each place. A
   higher index for one area does not necessarily mean that prices are
   higher there than in another area with a lower index. It merely means
   that prices have risen faster since their common reference period.

   The CPI cannot be used as a measure of total change in living costs
   because changes in these costs are affected by (such as social and
   environmental changes and changes in income taxes) that are beyond the
   definitional scope of the CPI and so are excluded.

   Limitations in measurement

   Limitations in measurement can be grouped into two basic types,
   sampling errors and non-sampling errors.

   Sampling errors.
   Since the CPI measures price change based on a sample of items, the
   published indexes differ somewhat from what the results would be if
   actual records of all retail purchases by everyone in the index
   population could be used to compile the index. These estimating or
   sampling errors are limitations on the precise accuracy of the index,
   not mistakes in index calculation. The CPI program has developed
   measurements of sampling error, which are updated and published
   annually in the CPI Detailed Report. An increased sample size would be
   expected to increase accuracy, but it would also increase CPI
   production costs. The CPI sample design allocates the sample in a way
   that maximizes the accuracy of the index, given the funds available.

   Nonsampling errors.
   These errors occur from a variety of sources. Unlike sampling errors,
   they can cause persistent bias in the index measurement. Nonsampling
   errors are caused by problems of price data collection, logistical lags
   in conducting surveys, difficulties in defining basic concepts and
   their operational implementation, and difficulties in handling the
   problems of quality change. Nonsampling errors can be far more
   hazardous to the accuracy of a price index than sampling errors. BLS
   expends much effort to minimize these errors. Highly trained personnel
   insure comparability of quality of items from period to period (see
   answer to question 8); collection procedures are extensively
   documented. The CPI program has an ongoing research and evaluation
   program, to identify and implement improvements in the CPI.

21. Will the CPI be updated or revised in the future?

   Yes. The CPI will need revisions, as long as there are significant
   changes in consumer buying habits or shifts in population distribution
   or demographics. The Bureau, by developing annual Consumer Expenditure
   Surveys and Point-of-Purchase Surveys, has the flexibility to monitor
   changing buying habits in a timely and cost-efficient manner. In
   addition, the census conducted every 10 years by the Department of
   Commerce provide information that enables the Bureau to reselect a new
   geographic sample that accurately reflects the current population
   distribution and other demographic factors.

   As a matter of policy, BLS is continually researching improved
   statistical methods. Thus, even between major revisions, further
   improvements to the CPI are made. For example, until recently, the
   Bureau would continue to price the brand-name version of a prescription
   drug even after it lost its patent protection, if the brand-name drug
   was still sold in the selected outlet. Starting in January 1995, BLS
   changed this policy. Now, 6 months after a drug loses its patent
   protection, a unique item to be priced is reselected from all
   therapeutically equivalent drugs (including the original) sold in the
   selected retail outlet. This gives generic versions of the drug a
   chance to be selected as a substitute. BLS waits until 6 months after
   the patent expires to give the emerging generic drugs time to gain
   market share, because the chance of selection is proportional to the
   sales of each version of the drug in the retail outlet. This new
   procedure provides a better reflection of consumers' experience with
   prescription drug prices, since many consumers switch to generic
   versions of drugs, as they become available.

22. How can I get CPI information?

   CPI information is available from BLS electronically, through
   subscriptions to publications, and via telephone and fax, through
   automated recordings. Information specialists are also available in the
   national and regional offices to provide assistance.

   Electronic access to CPI data

   BLS on the Internet.
   Through the Internet, BLS provides free, easy, and continuous access to
   almost all published CPI data and press releases. The most recent
   month's CPI is made available immediately at the time of release.
   Additionally, a database called LABSTAT, containing current and
   historical data for the CPI is accessible. Data and press releases from
   other BLS surveys are also available. This material is accessible via
   the World Wide Web (WWW), and File Transfer Protocol (FTP). Send E-mail
   to labstat.helpdesk@bls.gov for help using any of these systems.

   World Wide Web.
   The BLS Web site provides easy access to LABSTAT, as well as links to
   program-specific home pages. In addition to data, the CPI home page
   provides other CPI information. This includes a brief explanation of
   methodology, frequently asked questions and answers, contacts for
   further information, and explanations of how the CPI handles special
   items, like medical care and housing. In addition, CPI press releases
   and historical data for metropolitan areas can be accessed, by linking
   to the regional office home pages from the main BLS Web site listed
   above.

   FTP.
   This tool provides access to CPI LABSTAT data, as well as documentation
   and press release files organized in hierarchical directories. Connect
   to stats.bls.gov using FTP, log on as ANONYMOUS and use your complete
   Internet e-mail address as the password.

   Subscriptions to CPI publications

   Summary data.
   Free, monthly, 2-page publication containing 1- and 12-month percent
   changes for selected U.S. city average Consumer Price Index for All
   Urban Consumers (CPI-U) and Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners
   and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) index series. The All Items index data for
   each local area are also included. To be added to the mailing list,
   write to: Office of Publications, Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2
   Massachusetts Avenue, NE., Room 2850, Washington, DC 20212-0001, or
   call (202) 691-5200 or any of the BLS regional offices listed below.

   CPI Detailed Report.
   Most comprehensive report of the Consumer Price Index. This publication
   may be ordered by writing to: New Orders, Superintendent of Documents,
   P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA, 15250-7954, or by calling (202)
   512-1800. Subscriptions cost $31 per year.

   Monthly Labor Review (MLR).
   The MLR provides selected CPI data included in a monthly summary of BLS
   data and occasional articles and methodological descriptions too
   extensive for inclusion in the CPI Detailed Report. The MLR costs $31
   per year. This publication may be ordered by writing to: New Orders,
   Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA,
   15250-7954, or by calling (202) 512-1800. The MLR home page also
   provides recent issues of the MLR.

   Recorded CPI data
   Summary CPI data are provided 24 hours a day on recorded messages.
   Detailed CPI information is available by calling (202) 691-5200. A
   touch-tone telephone is recommended, as this system allows the user to
   select specific indexes from lists of available data.

   Recorded summaries of CPI are also available by calling any of the
   metropolitan area CPI hotlines listed below. These hotline summaries
   typically include data for the U.S. city average, as well as the
   specified area. Recordings are approximately 3 minutes in length, do
   not require a touch-tone telephone, and are available 24 hours a day, 7
   days a week.

   Area Hotline Numbers
Anchorage         (907) 271-2770
Atlanta           (404) 331-3415
Baltimore         (410) 962-4898
Boston            (617) 565-2325
Chicago           (312) 353-1883
Cincinnati        (513) 684-2349
Cleveland         (216) 522-3852
Dallas            (214) 767-6970
Denver            (303) 844-1726
Detroit           (313) 226-7558
Honolulu          (808) 541-2808
Houston           (713) 718-3753
Indianapolis      (317) 226-7885
Kansas City       (816) 426-2481
Los Angeles       (310) 235-6884
Milwaukee         (414) 276-2579
Minneapolis
        -St. Paul (651) 290-3996
New York          (212) 337-2406
Philadelphia      (215) 656-3948
Pittsburgh        (412) 644-2900
Portland          (503) 231-2045
St. Louis         (314) 539-3581
Salt Lake City    (801) 485-6582
San Diego         (619) 557-6538
San Francisco     (415) 975-4350
Seattle           (206) 553-0645
Washington DC     (202) 691-6994
                  (202) 691-5200
                  (410) 692-4898

   Other sources of CPI data

   Technical information is available during normal working hours, Monday
   through Friday (Eastern Time), by calling (202) 691-7000 or any of the
   regional offices listed below.

   Fax-on-Demand.
   A wide variety of BLS information and data, including CPI, are
   available from the BLS Ready Facts catalog via fax-on-demand. CPI
   documents from Ready Facts that are available around the clock include
   the monthly CPI press release, selected national, regional and
   metropolitan area historical summaries, and some technical information.
   The latest CPI information is posted during the morning of release day.
   To have the latest Ready Facts catalog sent to you, call (202)
   691-6325, then follow instructions. Each regional office also has a fax
   system in place; these systems include all information available from
   the national catalog, in addition to region-specific information on the
   CPI. Phone and fax-on-demand numbers for the eight regional offices
   are:
                          Fax-on-Demand       Telephone
Washington, DC       (202) 691-6325      (202) 691-7000
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Office of Prices and Living
 Conditions
2 Massachusetts Avenue, NE
Washington, DC  20212-0001
Boston               (617) 565-9167      (617) 565-2327
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
  Information
JFK Federal Bldg., E-310
Boston, MA  02203
Philadelphia        (215) 597-5153       (215) 597-3282
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
  Information
The Curtis Center, Suite 610 East
170 South Independence Mall West
Philadelphia, PA  19106-3305
New York           (212) 337-2412      (212) 337-2400
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
  Information
201 Varick Street, Room 808
New York, NY  10014-4811
Atlanta            (404) 331-3403     (404) 331-3415
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
 Information
61 Forsyth Street, SW.,
 Room 7T50
Atlanta, GA  30303
Chicago            (312) 353-1880     (312) 353-1880
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
 Information
230 S. Dearborn Street,
  9^th Floor
Chicago, IL  60604
Kansas City           (816) 426-3152     (816) 426-2481
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
 Information
1100 Main Street, Suite 600
Kansas City, MO  64105-2112
Dallas             (214) 767-9613     (214) 767-6970
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
 Information
525 Griffin Street, Room 221
Dallas, TX  75202
San Francisco      (415) 975-4350     (415) 975-4350
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economic Analysis and
 Information
P.O. Box 193766
San Francisco, CA  94119-3766

   Historical tables.
   These include all published indexes for each of the detailed CPI
   components. They are available via the Internet, by calling (202)
   691-7000 in the national office, or by contacting any of the regional
   offices listed above.

   Descriptive publications.
   These publications describe the CPI and ways to use it. They include
   simple fact sheets discussing specific topics about the CPI, this
   pamphlet with its broad, non-technical overview of the CPI in a
   question and answer format, and a quite technical and thorough
   description of the CPI and its methodology. These publications are
   available upon request by calling (202) 691-7000, and many are included
   on the CPI home page on the Internet.

   Special publications
   . Also available are various special publications, such as Relative
   Importance of Components in the Consumer Price Index, and materials
   describing the annual revisions of seasonally adjusted CPI data. For
   more information, call (202) 691-7000.


   Further information
   may be obtained from the Office of Prices and Living Conditions, Bureau
   of Labor Statistics, 2 Massachusetts Avenue, NE., Room 3615,
   Washington, DC, 20212-0001, telephone (202) 691-7000, or by calling any
   of the regional offices listed above.



   Last Modified Date: January 8, 2002

   Privacy & Security Statement • Accessibility Information

                                   Search: ____________________ Search Now
                                                           Advanced Search
   U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
   Division of Consumer Prices and Price Indexes
   Suite 3130
   2 Massachusetts Avenue, NE
   Washington, DC 20212-0001

                                               URL: http://www.bls.gov/CPI
                                                     Phone: (202) 691-7000
                                                       Fax: (202) 691-6325
                                      CPI data questions: cpi_info@bls.gov
                              Technical (web) questions: webmaster@bls.gov
                                          Other comments: feedback@bls.gov
