http://starlight.jpl.nasa.gov/interf/whatis.html


   StarLight Home JPL Home   submit
                  __________ NASA
   A Key Element in NASA's Origins Program

   [spacecraft-spillover-l2.gif] [whitedot.gif]


   [nav-l2-left.gif] What Is StarLight? Interferometry Formation Flying
   Technology Validation Spacecraft Science Kid's Corner Quick Facts
   [whitedot.gif]

   Interferometry
   What is Interferometry?
   A Bit of Interferometry History
   What's so Hard About Optical Interferometry in Space?
   Space Optical Interferometry on a Budget
   More About the Optics
   For More Technical Details
   [nav-l2-interf-filler.gif]


        "... the philosopher, . . . while he gazed upwards to the stars fell
        into the water; for if he had looked down he might have seen the
        stars in the water, but looking aloft he could not see the water in
        the stars. So it cometh often to pass, that mean and small things
        discover great, better than great can discover the small."

                                                              --Francis Bacon

                              What is Interferometry?

       The technology of interferometry is based on the principle that light
      travels in waves. A wave front expands outward in a sphere from a light
        source such as a star. By the time this sphere has expanded several
          million miles (such as the distance from the Sun to Earth), its
         "surface" is, for all practical purposes, flat. We call this flat
      surface a wave front. Wave fronts from other Suns (stars) may come from
            thousands, millions, or even billions of light years away.

      But no matter how far away the star, if we had a telescope mirror, and
      it were inclined at any non-perpendicular angle to the wave front, the
           wave front would hit one side of the mirror before the other.


   Virtually flat wave front hits telescope mirror at a slight angle,
               greatly exaggerated in this illustration.

      This angle is so tiny, however, that the only way we can discern it is
       because the waves reaching opposite sides of the mirror are slightly
       out of phase with one another. If we had a way to measure that phase
         difference, we would have some very precise information about the
       relative location of the source of the light reaching each of the two
      points on the huge mirror. The larger the mirror, the larger the phase
                                difference will be.

       An interferometer is a much more practical way to accomplish the same
         thing. Rather than building a telescope mirror half the size of a
       football field (for example), we put two (or more) telescope mirrors
      half a football field apart. Then we point both telescopes at the same
      star, and reflect the light they gather to a central point. As the two
      beams come together, they form an interference pattern because they are
                              slightly out of phase.


   Constructive and destructive interference.

      This interference, or fringe, pattern appears as a series of bright and
       dark bands-dark where the two light waves cancel each other out, and
                       bright where they augment each other.


   Fringe patterns, related to wave phase mismatches.

       This fringe pattern contains a wealth of information. Light from each
      portion of the star generates its own phase difference. Therefore, from
          the fringe pattern and a few physics equations, a computer can
      instantaneously calculate precise information for the source of the two
         light beams-both its position on the sky, and its shape. In other
      words, instead of a star looking like just a point of light, it becomes
        apparent that it is a disk, with light waves coming from different
       parts of its surface. For almost all stars, this disk is too small to
            be detected with a normal (single mirror) telescope, and an
        interferometer gives us completely new information. The longer the
      baseline (separation between the two telescopes), the larger the phase
       differences will be. We need longer baselines to measure the sizes of
                                  smaller stars.

   [whitedot.gif]
   Web Curator: Diane Fisher
   Webmaster: Lori Sears
   Home | What is StarLight? | Interferometry | Formation Flying
   Technology Validation | Spacecraft | Science | Kid's Corner | Quick
   Facts
