http://www.loc.gov/copyright/faq.html

   [seal2.gif] [logort.gif]                   [logolf.gif]

   Home · Forms · Records · Registration · Law · Comments · Library of
                                   Congress



                         QUESTIONS FREQUENTLY ASKED
             IN THE COPYRIGHT OFFICE PUBLIC INFORMATION SECTION

   The answers to the following frequently asked questions should be read
   as introductory rather than as definitive. Please consult the
   references cited in the answers. References noted by colored links are
   available in full text online. Other cited materials are available by
   telephoning the U.S. Copyright Office, Public Information Office,
   Monday through Friday (except legal holidays) between 8:30 a.m. - 5:00
   p.m. eastern time. (202) 707-3000. TTY (202) 707-6737.
    1. What does copyright protect?
    2. When is my work protected?
    3. What is your telephone number?
    4. What is your mailing address?
    5. What are your visiting address and hours of operation?
    6. Where can I get application forms?
    7. When will I get my certificate?
    8. Can you provide me with copies of my application and my work?
    9. How can I obtain copies of someone else's work and/or registration
       certificate?
   10. I lost my certificate; can I get a new one?
   11. Do you have a list of songs or movies in the public domain?
   12. What is mandatory deposit?
   13. Do I have to register with your office to be protected?
   14. Why should I register my work if copyright protection is automatic?
   15. Are you the only place I can go to register a copyright?
   16. How do I register my copyright?
   17. How long does the registration process take?
   18. What is the registration fee?
   19. Can I make copies of the application form?
   20. What is a deposit?
   21. How can I know if you received my application for registration?
   22. Can I find out what is happening with my registration?
   23. Do I have to send in my work? Do I get it back?
   24. May I register more than one work on the same application? Where do
       I list the titles?
   25. What is the difference between form PA and form SR?
   26. Do I have to renew my copyright?
   27. Can I submit my manuscript on a computer disk?
   28. Can I submit a CD-ROM of my work?
   29. How do I protect my recipe?
   30. Does copyright now protect architecture?
   31. Can I register a diary I found in my grandmother's attic?
   32. Do you have special mailing requirements?
   33. Can foreigners register their works in the U.S.?
   34. Who is an author?
   35. What is a work made for hire?
   36. Can a minor claim copyright?
   37. Do I have to use my real name on the form? Can I use a stage name
       or a pen name?
   38. What is publication?
   39. Does my work have to be published to be protected?
   40. How do I get my work published?
   41. Are copyrights transferable?
   42. Do you have any forms for transfer of copyrights?
   43. Can I copyright the name of my band?
   44. How do I copyright a name, title, slogan, or logo?
   45. How do I protect my idea?
   46. How long does copyright last?
   47. How much of someone else's work can I use without getting
       permission?
   48. How much do I have to change in my own work to make a new claim of
       copyright?
   49. How much do I have to change in order to claim copyright in someone
       else's work?
   50. How do I get my work into the Library of Congress?
   51. What is a Library of Congress number?
   52. What is an ISBN number?
   53. What is a copyright notice? How do I put a copyright notice on my
       work?
   54. How do I collect royalties?
   55. Somebody infringed my copyright: What can I do?
   56. Is my copyright good in other countries?
   57. How do I get on your mailing list or e-mail list?
   58. How do I protect my sighting of Elvis?
   59. How do I get permission to use somebody else's work?
   60. Could I be sued for using somebody else's work? How about quotes or
       samples?
     __________________________________________________________________

    1. What does copyright protect?
       Copyright, a form of intellectual property law, protects original
       works of authorship including literary, dramatic, musical, and
       artistic works such as poetry, novels, movies, songs, computer
       software and architecture. Copyright does not protect facts, ideas,
       systems, or methods of operation, although it may protect the way
       these things are expressed. See Circular 1, section What Works Are
       Protected.
    2. When is my work protected?
       Your work is under copyright protection the moment it is created
       and fixed in a tangible form so that it is perceptible either
       directly or with the aid of a machine or device.
    3. What is your telephone number?
       The Public Information Office telephone number is (202) 707-3000.
       To order application forms, the number is (202) 707-9100. TTY is
       (202) 707-6737.
    4. What is your mailing address?
       Our mailing address is Copyright Office, Library of Congress, 101
       Independence Avenue, S.E.,Washington, D.C. 20559-6000.
    5. What are your visiting address and hours of operation?
       The Copyright Office is located at 101 Independence Avenue, S.E.,
       Washington, D.C., in the James Madison Memorial Building, Room
       LM-401, of the Library of Congress. Hours of service are 8:30 a.m.
       to 5:00 p.m. eastern time, Monday through Friday, except Federal
       holidays. The nearest Metro stop is Capitol South.
    6. Where can I get application forms?
       You may get forms from the U.S. Copyright Office in person, by
       mailing in a request, or by calling our 24-hours-per-day forms
       hotline: (202) 707-9100. Some public libraries may carry our forms
       but we do not maintain a list of those libraries. Forms may also be
       downloaded from our website.
    7. When will I get my certificate?
       The time the Copyright Office requires to process an application
       varies, depending on the amount of material the Office is
       receiving. If your application is in order, you may generally
       expect to receive a certificate of registration within
       approximately 4 to 5 months of submission .
    8. Can you provide me with copies of my application and my work?
       Contact the Certifications and Documents Section of the Copyright
       Office (202) 707-6787 or see Circular 6 for details.
    9. How can I obtain copies of someone else's work and/or registration
       certificate?
       The Copyright Office will not honor a request for a copy of someone
       else's work without written authorization from the owner or from
       his or her designated agent if that work is still under copyright
       protection, unless the work is involved in litigation. Written
       permission from the copyright owner or a litigation statement is
       required before copies can be made available. A certificate of
       registration for any registered work can be obtained for a fee of
       $25. Circular 6 provides additional information.
   10. I lost my certificate: Can I get a new one?
       Yes, we can produce additional certificates for a fee of $25. See
       Circular 6 for details on how to make such a request.
   11. Do you have a list of songs or movies in the public domain?
       No, we neither compile nor maintain such a list. A search of our
       records, however, may reveal whether a particular work has fallen
       into the public domain. We will conduct a search of our records by
       the title of a work, an author's name, or a claimant's name. The
       search fee is $65 per hour. You may also search the records in
       person without paying a fee.
   12. What is mandatory deposit?
       Copies of all works under copyright protection that have been
       published in the United States are required to be deposited with
       the Copyright Office within three months of the date of first
       publication. See Circular 7d and the Deposit Regulation 96 202.19.
   13. Do I have to register with your office to be protected?
       No. In general, registration is voluntary. Copyright exists from
       the moment the work is created. You will have to register, however,
       if you wish to bring a lawsuit for infringement of a U.S. work. See
       Circular 1, section Copyright Registration.
   14. Why should I register my work if copyright protection is automatic?
       Registration is recommended for a number of reasons. Many choose to
       register their works because they wish to have the facts of their
       copyright on the public record and have a certificate of
       registration. Registered works may be eligible for statutory
       damages and attorney's fees in successful litigation. Finally, if
       registration occurs within five years of publication, it is
       considered prima facie evidence in a court of law. See Circular 1,
       section Copyright Registration and Circular 38b on non-U.S. works.
   15. Are you the only place I can go to register a copyright?
       Although copyright application forms may be available in public
       libraries and some reference books, the U.S. Copyright Office is
       the only office that can accept applications and issue
       registrations.
   16. How do I register my copyright?
       To register a work, you need to submit a completed application
       form, a non-refundable filing fee of $30, and a non-returnable copy
       or copies of the work to be registered. See Circular 1, section
       Registration Procedures.
   17. How long does the registration process take?
       The time the Copyright Office requires to process an application
       varies, depending on the amount of material the Office is
       receiving. If your application is in order, you may generally
       expect to receive a certificate of registration within
       approximately 4 to 5 months of submission .
   18. What is the registration fee?
       The current filing fee is $30 per application. Generally, each work
       requires a separate application. See Circular 4.
   19. Can I make copies of the application form?
       Yes, you can make copies of copyright forms if they meet the
       following criteria: photocopied back to back and head to head on a
       single sheet of 8 1/2 by 11 inch white paper. In other words, your
       copy must look just like the original.
   20. What is a deposit?
       A deposit is usually one copy (if unpublished) or two copies (if
       published) of the work to be registered for copyright. In certain
       cases such as works of the visual arts, identifying material such
       as a photograph may be used instead. See Circular 40a. The deposit
       is sent with the application and fee and becomes the property of
       the Library of Congress.
   21. How can I know if you received my application for registration?
       If you want to know when the Copyright Office receives your
       material, you should send it by registered or certified mail and
       request a return receipt from the post office. Allow at least five
       weeks for the return of your receipt.
   22. Can I find out what is happening with my registration?
       Copyright registration is effective on the day we receive the
       appropriate form, copy or copies of the work, and the $30 filing
       fee. The time the Copyright Office requires to process an
       application varies, depending on the amount of material the Office
       is receiving. If your application is in order, you may generally
       expect to receive a certificate of registration within
       approximately 4 to 5 months of submission. If we need further
       information, you may receive a letter or telephone call from our
       office. If a claim is older than 6 months, the Office will do an
       in-process search without charge to determine why the certificate
       has been delayed. If it is imperative that you have this
       information sooner, you may pay the appropriate fees and request
       that the Certifications and Documents Section conduct an in-process
       search. The current in-process search fee is $65 per hour.
   23. Do I have to send in my work? Do I get it back?
       Yes, you must send the required copy or copies of the work to be
       registered. These copies will not be returned. Upon their deposit
       in the Copyright Office, under sections 407 and 408 of the
       Copyright law, all copies, phonorecords, and identifying material,
       including those deposited in connection with claims that have been
       refused registration, are the property of the United States
       Government.
   24. May I register more than one work on the same application? Where do
       I list the titles?
       You may register unpublished works as a collection on one
       application with one title for the entire collection if certain
       conditions are met. It is not necessary to list the individual
       titles in your collection, although you may do so by completing a
       Continuation Sheet. Published works may only be registered as a
       collection if they were actually first published as a collection
       and if other requirements have been met. See Circular 1, section
       Registration Procedures.
   25. What is the difference between form PA and form SR?
       These forms are for registering two different types of
       copyrightable subject matter that may be embodied in a recording.
       Form PA is used for the registration of music and/or lyrics (as
       well as other works of the performing arts), even if your song is
       on a cassette. Form SR is used for registering the performance and
       production of a particular recording of sounds. See Circular 50 and
       Circular 56a.
   26. Do I have to renew my copyright?
       No. Works created on or after January 1, 1978, are not subject to
       renewal registration (see Circular 15). As to works published or
       registered prior to January 1, 1978, renewal registration is
       optional after 28 years but does provide certain legal advantages.
       For information on how to file a renewal application as well as the
       legal benefit for doing so, see Circular 15 and Circular 15a.
   27. Can I submit my manuscript on a computer disk?
       No. There are many different software formats and the Copyright
       Office does not have the equipment to accommodate all of them.
       Therefore, the Copyright Office still generally requires a printed
       copy or audio recording of the work for deposit.
   28. Can I submit a CD-ROM of my work?
       Yes, you may. The deposit requirement consists of the best edition
       of the CD-ROM package of any work, including the accompanying
       operating software, instruction manual and a printed version, if
       included in the package. See Circular 55.
   29. How do I protect my recipe?
       A mere listing of ingredients is not protected under copyright law.
       However, where a recipe or formula is accompanied by substantial
       literary expression in the form of an explanation or directions, or
       when there is a collection of recipes as in a cookbook, there may
       be a basis for copyright protection. See FL 122.
   30. Does copyright now protect architecture?
       Yes. Architectural works became subject to copyright protection on
       December 1, 1990. The copyright law defines "architectural work" as
       "the design of a building embodied in any tangible medium of
       expression, including a building, architectural plans, or
       drawings." Copyright protection extends to any architectural work
       created on or after December 1, 1990, and any architectural work
       that on December 1, 1990, was unconstructed and embodied in
       unpublished plans or drawings. Architectural works embodied in
       buildings constructed prior to December 1, 1990, are not eligible
       for copyright protection. See, Circular 41.
   31. Can I register a diary I found in my grandmother's attic?
       You can register copyright in the diary only if you are the
       transferee (by will, by inheritance). Copyright is the right of the
       author of the work or the author's heirs or assignees, not of the
       one who only owns or possesses the physical work itself. See
       Circular 1, section Who Can Claim Copyright.
   32. Do you have special mailing requirements?
       Our only requirement is that all three elements, the application,
       the copy or copies of the work, and the $30 filing fee, be sent in
       the same package. Many people send their material to us by
       certified mail, with a return receipt request, but this is not
       necessary.
   33. Can foreigners register their works in the U.S.?
       Any work that is protected by U.S. copyright law can be registered.
       This includes many works of foreign origin. All works that are
       unpublished, regardless of the nationality of the author, are
       protected in the United States. Works that are first published in
       the United States or in a country with which we have a copyright
       treaty or that are created by a citizen or domiciliary of a country
       with which we have a copyright treaty are also protected and may
       therefore be registered with the U.S. Copyright Office. See
       Circular 38a for the status of specific countries.
   34. Who is an author?
       Under the copyright law, the creator of the original expression in
       a work is its author. The author is also the owner of copyright
       unless there is a written agreement by which the author assigns the
       copyright to another person or entity, such as a publisher. In
       cases of works made for hire (see Circular 9), the employer or
       commissioning party is considered to be the author.
   35. What is a work made for hire?
       Although the general rule is that the person who creates the work
       is its author, there is an exception to that principle; the
       exception is a work made for hire, which is a work prepared by an
       employee within the scope of his or her employment; or a work
       specially ordered or commissioned in certain specified
       circumstances. When a work qualifies as a work made for hire, the
       employer or commissioning party is considered to be the author. See
       Circular 9.
   36. Can a minor claim copyright?
       Minors may claim copyright, and the Copyright Office does issue
       registrations to minors, but state laws may regulate the business
       dealings involving copyrights owned by minors. For information on
       relevant state laws, consult an attorney.
   37. Do I have to use my real name on the form? Can I use a stage name
       or a pen name?
       There is no legal requirement that the author be identified by his
       or her real name on the application form. For further information,
       see FL 101. If filing under a fictitious name, check the
       "Pseudonymous" box at space 2.
   38. What is publication?
       Publication has a technical meaning in copyright law. According to
       the statute, "Publication is the distribution of copies or
       phonorecords of a work to the public by sale or other transfer of
       ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending. The offering to
       distribute copies or phonorecords to a group of persons for
       purposes of further distribution, public performance, or public
       display constitutes publication. A public performance or display of
       a work does not of itself constitute publication." Generally,
       publication occurs on the date on which copies of the work are
       first made available to the public. For further information see
       Circular 1, section Publication.
   39. Does my work have to be published to be protected?
       Publication is not necessary for copyright protection.
   40. How do I get my work published?
       Publication occurs at the discretion and initiative of the
       copyright owner. The Copyright Office has no role in the
       publication process.
   41. Are copyrights transferable?
       Yes. Like any other property, all or part of the rights in a work
       may be transferred by the owner to another. See Circular 1, section
       Transfer of Copyright, for a discussion of ownership.
   42. Do you have any forms for transfer of copyrights?
       There are no forms provided by the Copyright Office to effect a
       copyright transfer. The Office does, however, keep records of
       transfers if they are submitted to us. If you have executed a
       transfer and wish to record it, the Copyright Office can provide a
       Document Cover Sheet, which can help to expedite the processing of
       the recordation. See Circular 12.
   43. Can I copyright the name of my band?
       No. Names are not protected by copyright law. Some names may be
       protected under trademark law. Contact the U.S. Patent & Trademark
       Office, (800) 786-9199, for further information.
   44. How do I copyright a name, title, slogan or logo?
       Copyright does not protect names, titles, slogans, or short
       phrases. In some cases, these things may be protected as
       trademarks. Contact the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office at (800)
       786-9199 for further information. However, copyright protection may
       be available for logo art work that contains sufficient authorship.
       In some circumstances, an artistic logo may also be protected as a
       trademark.
   45. How do I protect my idea?
       Copyright does not protect ideas, concepts, systems, or methods of
       doing something. You may express your ideas in writing or drawings
       and claim copyright in your description, but be aware that
       copyright will not protect the idea itself as revealed in your
       written or artistic work.
   46. How long does copyright last?
       The Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act, signed into law on
       October 27, 1998, amends the provisions concerning duration of
       copyright protection. Effective immediately, the terms of copyright
       are generally extended for an additional 20 years. Specific
       provisions are as follows:
       *  For works created after January 1, 1978, copyright protection
       will endure for the life of the author plus an additional 70 years.
       In the case of a joint work, the term lasts for 70 years after the
       last surviving authors death. For anonymous and pseudonymous works
       and works made for hire, the term will be 95 years from the year of
       first publication or 120 years from the year of creation, whichever
       expires first;
       *  For works created but not published or registered before January
       1, 1978, the term endures for life of the author plus 70 years, but
       in no case will expire earlier than December 31, 2002. If the work
       is published before December 31, 2002, the term will not expire
       before December 31, 2047;
       *  For pre-1978 works still in their original or renewal term of
       copyright, the total term is extended to 95 years from the date
       that copyright was originally secured. For further information see
       Circular 15a.
   47. How much of someone else's work can I use without getting
       permission?
       Under the fair use doctrine of the U.S. copyright statute, it is
       permissible to use limited portions of a work including quotes, for
       purposes such as commentary, criticism, news reporting, and
       scholarly reports. There are no legal rules permitting the use of a
       specific number of words, a certain number of musical notes, or
       percentages of a work. Whether a particular use qualifies as fair
       use depends on all the circumstances. See Circular 21 and FL 102.
   48. How much do I have to change in my own work to make a new claim of
       copyright?
       You may make a new claim in your work if the changes are
       substantial and creative -- something more than just editorial
       changes or minor changes. This would qualify as a new derivative
       work. For instance, simply making spelling corrections throughout a
       work does not warrant a new registration -- adding an additional
       chapter would. See Circular 14 for further information.
   49. How much do I have to change in order to claim copyright in someone
       else's work?
       Only the owner of copyright in a work has the right to prepare, or
       to authorize someone else to create a new version of that work.
       Accordingly, you cannot claim copyright to another's work, no
       matter how much you change it, unless you have the owner's consent.
       See Circular 14.
   50. How do I get my work into the Library of Congress?
       Copies of works deposited for copyright registration or in
       fulfillment of the mandatory deposit requirement are available to
       the Library of Congress for its collections. The Library reserves
       the right to select or reject any published work for its permanent
       collections based on the research needs of Congress, the nation's
       scholars, and of the nation's libraries. If you would like further
       information on the Library's selection policies, you may contact:
       Library of Congress, Collections Policy Office, 101 Independence
       Avenue, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20540.
   51. What is a Library of Congress number?
       The Library of Congress Card Catalog Number is assigned by the
       Library at its discretion to assist librarians in acquiring and
       cataloging works. For further information call the Cataloging in
       Publication Division at (202) 707-6345.
   52. What is an ISBN number?
       The International Standard Book Number is administered by the R. R.
       Bowker Company 1-888-BOWKER2. The ISBN is a numerical identifier
       intended to assist the international community in identifying and
       ordering certain publications.
   53. What is a copyright notice? How do I put a copyright notice on my
       work?
       A copyright notice is an identifier placed on copies of the work to
       inform the world of copyright ownership. While use of a copyright
       notice was once required as a condition of copyright protection, it
       is now optional. Use of the notice is the responsibility of the
       copyright owner and does not require advance permission from, or
       registration with, the Copyright Office. See Circular 3, Copyright
       Notice for requirements for works published before March 1, 1989
       and for more information on the form and position of the copyright
       notice.
   54. How do I collect royalties?
       The collection of royalties is usually a matter of private
       arrangements between an author and publisher or other users of the
       author's work. The Copyright Office plays no role in the execution
       of contractual terms or business practices. There are copyright
       licensing organizations and publications rights clearinghouses that
       distribute royalties for their members.
   55. Somebody infringed my copyright. What can I do?
       A party may seek to protect his or her copyrights against
       unauthorized use by filing a civil lawsuit in Federal district
       court. If you believe that your copyright has been infringed,
       consult an attorney. In cases of willful infringement for profit,
       the U.S. Attorney may initiate a criminal investigation.
   56. Is my copyright good in other countries?
       The United States has copyright relations with more than 100
       countries throughout the world, and as a result of these
       agreements, we honor each other's citizens' copyrights. However,
       the United States does not have such copyright relationships with
       every country. For a listing of countries and the nature of their
       copyright relations with the United States, see Circular 38a,
       International Copyright Relations of the United States .
   57. How do I get on your mailing list?
       The Copyright Office does not maintain a mailing list. The
       Copyright Office sends periodic e-mail messages via NewsNet, a free
       electronic mailing list.  Important announcements and new or
       changed regulations and the like are published in the Federal
       Register. Most will also appear on the Copyright Office website on
       the Internet.
   58. How do I protect my sighting of Elvis?
       Copyright law does not protect sightings. However, copyright law
       will protect your photo (or other depiction) of your sighting of
       Elvis. Just send it to us with a form VA application and the $30
       filing fee. No one can lawfully use your photo of your sighting,
       although someone else may file his own photo of his sighting.
       Copyright law protects the original photograph, not the subject of
       the photograph.
   59. How do I get permission to use somebody else's work?
       You can ask for it. If you know who the copyright owner is, you may
       contact the owner directly. If you are not certain about the
       ownership or have other related questions, you may wish to request
       that the Copyright Office conduct a search of its records for a fee
       of $65 per hour. Additional information can be found in Circular
       22.
   60. Could I be sued for using somebody else's work? How about quotes or
       samples?
       If you use a copyrighted work without authorization, the owner may
       be entitled to bring an infringement action against you. There are
       circumstances under the fair use doctrine where a quote or a sample
       may be used without permission. However, in cases of doubt, the
       Copyright Office recommends that permission be obtained.
     __________________________________________________________________

     Home · Forms · Records · Registration · Law · Comments · Library of
                                     Congress

   05-Dec-2001
