http://fire.pppl.gov/Omi_Japan_Press_Conf.pdf

   Press Conference held by Minister Omi immediately after The Council of
   Science and Technology Policy Meeting. September 21, 2001 (see also
   original Japanese version) 1. Minister Omi reported on his trip to the
   US and Europe, he said the ITER plan has been studied but no conclusion
   yet. At general science technical meeting a ranking (of special
   requests) has been established. 2. Reporter - Will there be more
   meetings of the Council of Science and Technology Policy? Omi - No
   meeting in September, it will be later. The Under Prime Minister will
   present the amount of the special request to all Ministries. Based on
   that, all Ministries will propose their own detailed request to the
   Finance Minister. He anticipates a conclusion before December. The
   discussion of the special request ended at this meeting (Council of
   Science and Technology Policy). 3. Reporter - Are results of the
   ranking open to the public? Omi - After all Ministries have presented
   their proposals, the ranking will be made public. 4. Reporter - On the
   ITER project, does this mean that participation in ITER has not been
   determined? Omi - No formal decision has been made on ITER. 5. Reporter
   - Regarding the October 4-5 Canadian ITER meeting, no statement on
   Japan participation? Omi - Before October 4, no general science and
   technology meeting. However, we discussed with people related to
   project that we should discuss internally how firmly we can talk about
   ITER - can't say more now. 6. Reporter - How about France? Omi - France
   says Cadarache, but France and Europe will discuss how the budget will
   be shared. After the plan is made, it will be proposed. In Japan, share
   of the expense will be discussed. 7. Reporter - If France and Europe do
   not have a specific plan, is it meaningless to have meeting? Omi -
   Personally, yes. I have the same opinion. Others would like the meeting
   for information exchange. 8. Reporter  Has progress been delayed? Is
   each side watching to see what the other side will do? Omi  People
   should discuss, but don't move too quickly. 9. Reporter  Who are the
   participants? Omi  scientists of nuclear fusion, official personnel and
   financial officers 10. Reporter  Why haven't we decided up to now? Omi
   It just takes time. Technical Staff of Ministry  It is important to
   discuss further the relationship of ITER to Energy Research and Atomic
   Energy Research because it is a large expense. The first thing the
   international meeting should do is decide how the countries share
   expenses and develop a framework for that purpose. 11. Reporter  Before
   the framework is established, does your comment mean that is unwise to
   raise your hand too early considering the negotiation. Omi  It takes
   time to adjust/arrange the Japanese principle, people related directly
   are anxious to have discussion. In my opinion, I like to see the mutual
   understanding of people involved in Japan, then make the decision.
   Congress Member  The facility expense of a national university is under
   public investment. Predicted budget is not under consideration. We are
   concerned about that. On this matter, the members of that meeting
   reported they don't know where the ITER budget comes from.
