http://bxatac.doc.gov/061201rpminP.htm

   Open Meeting Minutes of 6/12/01 RPTAC


   Jim Wyatt - Greeting and opening remarks.  Introductions around the
   room.


   Hillary Hess - Regulatory Update


   Published rules:


   5/14/01 - Addition of 12 PRC entities to the Entity List; modification
   of three Russian entity listings; and correction to an Israeli entity
   listing.


   4/09/01 - Wassenaar changes: increased control levels for
   microprocessors, graphic accelerators, and external interconnects.


   4/09/01 - Addition of Brazil, Latvia, and Ukraine to Nuclear Suppliers
   Group; addition of Austria, Finland, Ireland, and Sweden to list of
   countries not subject to certain nuclear end-use restrictions.


   3/01/01 - Removal of Serbia controls imposed in May 1999; Kosovo no
   longer considered a separate destination for purposes of the EAR.


   Pending rules:


   Australia Group - changes from Oct. 2000 plenary regarding kits,
   mixtures; adds Cyprus and Turkey.  (Interagency)


   Nuclear Suppliers Group Changes - reformatting; adds Belarus, Cyprus,
   Slovenia, and Turkey.  (Drafting)


   Missile Technology Control Regime - Oct. 1999 changes and subsequent
   reformatting; adds Czech Republic, Poland, Ukraine, South Korea, and
   Turkey.  (Interagency)


   Wassenaar Arrangement-


   Computers - raises CTP in 4A003 to 28,000 Mtops.  (Interagency)

   Categories 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 9 - mostly updating (easing) but does
   expand 2B001 to catch fly cutting machine tools.  (Interagency)


   Liberia/Taliban - Implements U.N. arms embargoes.  (Interagency)


   Encryption - Wassenaar changes; streamlining.  (Drafting)


   Trade Sanctions Reform Act (TSRA)/License Exception AGR - Exports of
   agricultural commodities to Cuba.  (Interagency)


   De Minimis - incorporation of U.S. software into foreign-made
   hardware.  (OMB)


   Mandatory Electronic Submission - SNAP/ELAIN for license application
   submission.  (Drafting)


   Work Groups: Status & Discussion


   E-Commerce: Anne-Marie Banner


   Group held a conference call to define E-Commerce - what it means
   vis-a-vis export controls.  Focus on electronic delivery - screening
   requirements, reasonable care, interaction with EPCI.


   End-User Controls: Kathleen Blackall


   Compare and contrast other countries= end-user controls to ours.
   (Question from Dick Seppa on Aold initiatives@ e.g., EPCI Apositive
   list@ - what happened to these?  EPCI 10 years old - has it
   accomplished its objectives?)  Recommended inviting people from other
   countries to RPTAC to discuss what they do.


   Technology Controls: Jim Wyatt


   RPTAC letter to U/S Ken Juster - proposal for License Exception NDA for
   technology transfer - similar to ENC, applied more broadly to
   technology.  How do other countries do it - interaction with privacy
   laws and blocking statutes.  Industry needs to argue why easing won=t
   harm national security in addition to arguing cost burden - for
   instance, not hiring the right people creates loss to national security
   by hampering commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) acquisitions.


   Deemed Export License (DEL): Sandee Vincent and Kathleen Gebeau


   Letter submitted by RPTAC on process.  Still problems:


   Typewriter and ribbon

   No electronic tracking

   30-day clock notice by mail

   Difficult to get status

   Notice after 30 days of problem/hold.


   (Opportunity for public comment offered.)


   Brian Nilsson - Encryption


   Thanked RPTAC for their letter.  Consulting with Bill Root and PECSENC
   on streamlining.

   Updates:

   - Licensing load has dropped since January 2000: 190/month to 20/month

   - Technical reviews still coming in 25/week (no drop)

   - Retail percentage now about 85%


   Have asked NSA to evaluate usefulness of reports.  First whole
   interagency meeting next week.  Currently out of step with Wassenaar
   Arrangement - cumbersome nature of regs to be cleaned up.  Comment by
   Roz Thomsen that determination of de minimis not going well.


    TSRA - FDA definition of medical devices.  Notification process,
   classifications for EAR99 items.


   Practices and Procedures: Catherine Thornberry


   Comments on new export clearance rules, software valuation, Special
   Comprehensive License.


   Susan Daniel - USXports


   (Also ECASS program manager -redesign.)  Redesign of SNAP and ESD
   project: prototype tested with 5 exporters - recommended against
   rolling it out.  SNAP redesign to roll out at same time - SCL, DEL
   added - ESD trial by Update; then should be able to sign people up by
   Update West for March rollout.  Pressure to use public key
   infrastructure (PKI) but will still use SSL.  ECASS redesign in next
   year or two.


   CCL: Bill Root


   Recommendation #3 from Inspector General - working group on CCL.
   People outside the committee on work groups.


   Multilateral Controls: Dick Seppa


   Monitor/influence regimes, other country practices - discrepancies.
   Wassenaar involvement, but not much with nonproliferation regimes.
   Cross-cutting, broader policy issues across regimes.  Differences in
   national implementation - licensing practices, catch all, technology
   controls, and countries of concern.  Militarily Critical Technologies
   List - how does that fit in?


   Open Session adjourned.
