http://www-supernova.lbl.gov/public/papers/publicaigua/q0/saulaiguasissa.ps

   SCHEDULED DISCOVERIES OF 7+ HIGH-REDSHIFT SUPERNOVAE: FIRST COSMOLOGY
   RESULTS AND BOUNDS ON q0 The Supernova Cosmology Project: I S.
   PERLMUTTER1, S. DEUSTUA, S. GABI, G. GOLDHABER, D. GROOM, I. HOOK, A.
   KIM, M. KIM, J. LEE, R. PAIN2, C. PENNYPACKER AND I. SMALL E. O.
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory & Center for Particle
   Astrophysics, University of California, Berkeley A. GOOBAR University
   of Stockholm R. ELLIS AND R. MCMAHON Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge
   University B. BOYLE, P. BUNCLARK, D. CARTER, K. GLAZEBROOK3 AND M.
   IRWIN Royal Greenwich Observatory H. NEWBERG Fermi National Accelerator
   Laboratory A. V. FILIPPENKO AND T. MATHESON University of California,
   Berkeley M. DOPITA AND J. MOULD MSSSO, Australian National University
   AND W. COUCH University of New South Wales Abstract. Our search for
   high-redshift Type Ia supernovae discovered, in its first years, a
   sample of seven supernovae. Using a "batch" search strategy, almost all
   were discovered before maximum light and were observed over the peak of
   their light curves. The spectra and light curves indicate that almost
   all were Type Ia supernovae at redshifts z = 0:35 - 0.5. These
   high-redshift 1Presented by S. Perlmutter, e-mail address:saul@LBL.gov
   2Current address: CNRS-IN2P3, University of Paris 3Current address:
   Anglo-Australian Observatory 2 supernovae can provide a distance
   indicator and "standard clock" to study the cosmological parameters q0,
   \Lambda , \Omega 0, and H0. This presentation and the following
   presentations of Kim et al. (1996), Goldhaber et al. (1996), and Pain
   et al. (1996) will discuss observation strategies and rates, analysis
   and calibration issues, the sources of measurement uncertainty, and the
   cosmological implications, including bounds on q0, of these first
   high-redshift supernovae from our ongoing search. 1. Introduction Since
   the mid 1980's, soon after the identification of the supernova
   subclassifications Ia and Ib were recognized, Type Ia supernovae (SNe
   Ia) have appeared likely to be homogeneous enough that they could be
   used for cosmological measurements. At the time, it appeared that they
   could be used to determine H0, if their absolute magnitude at peak
   could be measured, i.e., if some SN Ia's distance could be calibrated.
   They could also be used to determine q0 from the apparent magnitudes
   and redshifts of nearby and high redshift supernovae, if high redshift
   SNe Ia could be found. Many of the presentations at this meeting have
   demonstrated significant advances in recent years in our understanding
   of the SN Ia homogeneity (and/or luminosity calibration), the distances
   to SNe Ia, and measurements of H0. We will here discuss the search for
   high redshift supernovae and the measurement of q0. 2. High Redshift
   Supernovae Search Strategy We began our High Redshift Supernova Search
   soon after the completion of a labor-intensive search at the Danish
   1.5-m in Chile, which in two years of searching had discovered one SN
   Ia at z = 0:31, approximately 18 days past maximum light
   (No/rgaard-Nielsen et al. 1989). It was apparent that SNe Ia at high
   redshift are difficult to work with for at least three reasons: they
   are rare, they are rapid, and they are random. The estimates of SN Ia
   rates--a few per millennium per galaxy--are daunting, if one wants a
   statistically useful sample of supernovae. Much of the interesting data
   must be obtained rapidly, since the supernova rises to maximum light
   within a few weeks and, at high redshifts, fades below the largest
   telescopes' limits within a month or two. Furthermore, it is not
   possible to guarantee photometry and particularly spectroscopy of
   randomly occurring high-redshift supernovae, since the largest, most
   over-scheduled telescopes are needed to observe them. Ideally one would
   like to schedule supernova explosions on demand, and 3 ~750flflGalaxies
   ... ... ... Scheduled Follow-Upflfl Spectroscopy fl & Photometry 50-1
   00 F ields RESULT: ~10 SNe Ia DiscoveredflflBefore Maximum Light, at
   New Moon Per Field t f(t) fl fll Figure 1. Search strategy designed to
   discover batches of ,10 high-redshift supernovae on demand, just before
   new moon, and while the supernovae are still brightening, i.e. before
   "maximum light." The follow-up spectroscopy and photometry can
   therefore be scheduled, and can follow the supernovae over maximum
   light during dark time. then apply for the telescope time to study
   them, beginning at least a few days before maximum light. To solve
   these problems, we developed a new search technique. Figure 1 presents
   a schematic outline of the strategy. Just after a new moon, we observe
   many tens of high-galactic-latitude fields (including known
   highredshift clusters when possible) on a 2.5- to 4-meter telescope.
   With a wide-field camera, each image contains hundreds of galaxies at
   redshifts 0.3 - 0.6. Just before the following new moon, we observe the
   same fields again. We compare the images, thus checking tens of
   thousands of high redshift galaxies (including those below our
   detection limit) to find the ten or so showing the new light of a
   supernova that was not there on the previous observation. The
   supernovae generally do not have time to reach maximum light, with only
   2.5 to 3 weeks (or approximately 11 to 14 days in the supernova rest
   frame) between our after- and before-new4 moon comparison images. In
   order to begin the follow-up photometry and spectroscopy immediately,
   we have developed extensive software to make it possible to complete
   the analysis of all the images within hours of the observations. In
   short, this search technique allows "batches" of pre-maximum-light
   supernova discoveries to be scheduled just before new moon, the ideal
   time to begin follow-up spectroscopy and photometry. This follow-up can
   now be scheduled as well, on the largest telescopes. 3. Supernova
   Discoveries and Follow Up As of this meeting in June 1995, we had used
   this "batch" search technique several times at the Isaac Newton
   Telescope and the Kitt Peak 4-meter telescope to discover 9 supernovae.
   Seven of these were found within the standard 2.5 - 3 week search
   interval and were followed with photometry and spectroscopy (Perlmutter
   et al. 1994, 1995a, 1995b). (Since these were the demonstration runs of
   the project, not all of the follow up was scheduled.) We observed light
   curves for all of the supernovae in at least one filter (usually R
   band), and spectra for all of the host galaxies and three of the
   supernovae. [Since the Aiguablava meeting, we have now completed
   another search run using the CTIO 4-meter telescope. This yielded 11
   supernovae at redshifts between 0.39 and 0.65 (Perlmutter et al.
   1995c).] The results of the batch search strategy can be seen in Figure
   2, which shows a preliminary analysis of the R-band light curves as of
   June 1995. For each of the supernovae, there is the 2.5 - 3 week gap in
   the observations leading up to the discovery just before maximum light.
   (There is also a gap during the following full moon.) Figure 3a shows
   the distribution of discovery dates spread over the week before maximum
   light. In the case of SN 1994am, the discovery was just after maximum
   light, but in this case the very first observations provide data points
   before maximum light. Whenever possible, photometry was also obtained
   in other bands in addition to R. The light curve of SN 1994G shows an
   example with more extensive coverage in both I and R. Several of the
   supernovae were observed in the B band, although these points are not
   plotted in Figure 2. B-band photometry near maximum light is
   particularly important, because it gives an indication of rest-frame
   ultraviolet flux, as discussed below. The redshift distribution of the
   supernova discoveries depends, of course, on the telescope aperture and
   exposure times used for the search. Most of these seven supernovae were
   discovered with data that was optimal for detection of supernovae in
   the redshift range z = 0.35 - 0.45, as discussed at this meeting in
   more detail by Reynald Pain and Isobel Hook (Pain et al., 5 0.0 0.2 0.4
   0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 No rma lize d fl ux SN1992bi SN1994al SN1994am SN1994an
   SN1994H "Spontaneousflfl Generation" fl event SN1994F SN1994G 0.0 0.2
   0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 No rma lize d fl ux z = 0.354 z = 0.425 R dataflfl I
   data 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 No rma lize d fl ux Days from peak -0.2
   0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 No rma lize d fl ux -50 0 50 100 150 200 250 0
   50 100 150 200 250 300 Days from peak z = 0.458 z = 0.374 z = 0.420 z =
   0.372 z = 0.378 Figure 2. Preliminary R-band light curves for the first
   seven high-redshift supernovae. Shading behind the solid curves
   represent the 1-oe bounds on the best fit Leibundgut template light
   curve. An I-band light curve is also shown for SN 1994G; other
   photometry points in I and B for these supernovae are not shown on this
   plot. The lower right panel shows the light curve of a "spontaneous
   generation" event, a transient point-source of light on a region of an
   image where no host galaxy is visible; the follow-up photometry was not
   as extensive for this event. 6 MaximumflLight -2 0-6 -4-8-14-18-20 +2
   +4 Days (observer's frame) 0 1 2 3 0.35 0.40 0.3 0.45 0.5 Redshift (a)
   (b) 94a m 94a m NSN Figure 3. (a) Distribution of discovery dates,
   plotted as number of days before maximum light. Note that for SN 1994am
   the discovery was just after maximum light, but the first observations,
   about three weeks earlier, provide a data point well before maximum
   light, shown in dotted outline. (b) Distribution of redshifts. 1996).
   Figure 3b shows the actual redshift distribution, which matches the
   expected distribution quite well. Our more recent searches use
   observations that are over a magnitude deeper and hence favor redshifts
   in the range 0.4 - 0.6. Two of the three supernova spectra observed,
   for SN 1994G (by Challis, Riess, and Kirshner) and SN 1994an, match
   well feature-for-feature to a nearby SN Ia spectrum observed on the
   corresponding number of days (supernova rest frame) after maximum
   light, after redshifting the comparison spectrum to the redshift of the
   distant supernova's host galaxy. The one spectrum that extends far
   enough into the red shows the Si II feature of an SN Ia. The third
   supernova spectrum, for SN 1994F, was observed during commissioning of
   the LRIS spectrograph (by J.B. Oke, J. Cohen, and T. Bida) on the Keck
   telescope and is poorly calibrated. It nevertheless shows peaks and
   troughs matching a redshifted SN Ia. (The three spectra will be 7
   presented in forthcoming publications.) Although no supernova spectrum
   was obtained for SN 1994am, its host galaxy spectrum exhibits a large
   4000-angstrom break and lacks strong emission lines, indicating an
   elliptical galaxy. This supernova can therefore be taken to be an SN Ia
   as well. Given that the lightcurve shapes are not consistent with SNe
   IIP, and the higher probability of finding SNe Ia given their
   brightness relative to the typical SNe II's, Ib's, and Ic's, it is
   likely that all seven of the supernovae considered here are SNe Ia (see
   Perlmutter et al. 1995a for further discussion of SN 1992bi). 4.
   Photometry Analysis The data analysis involves several stages, first to
   reduce the observed image data to individual photometry points and then
   to compare these points with nearby SN Ia light curves to determine the
   luminosity distance and hence q0. The supernova light in each image
   must be measured and the underlying host galaxy light subtracted off.
   At these redshifts the supernova's seeing disk usually covers a
   significant amount of the galaxy, so it is important to do this step
   correctly. Each image has different seeing, and often a different
   telescope's point-spread-function (PSF) varies both spatially over the
   field and temporally over the course of an observing night. The amount
   of galaxy light that must be subtracted therefore varies from image to
   image. To ensure that this step does not introduce spurious
   fluctuations in the photometry, we have developed various analysis
   tests and controls to monitor the stability of the measurement. For
   example, we repeat the analysis used at the location of the supernova
   at many other locations on nearby galaxies similar to the supernova's
   host galaxy. These locations should show flat "light curves," since
   they have no supernova. If the brightness fluctuates more than expected
   from the sky noise, we have evidence for a mismatch of galaxy light
   from image to image, due for example to a poor measurement of the
   seeing or local PSF. These neighboring-galaxy locations also help
   monitor the accuracy of the color corrections that account for slightly
   different filters or CCD responses between telescopes and cameras. As
   another check, we place "fake" supernovae on the images, and follow the
   analysis chain all the way through to the light curves to see that the
   analysis does not distort the photometry. 5. Light Curve Analysis To
   compare these high-redshift supernova photometry points to nearby SN Ia
   light curves, it is necessary to calculate the K correction that
   accounts for the redshifting of the light observed in a given filter.
   The standard K corrections give the magnitude difference between the
   light emitted in 8 a given filter band and the light observed after
   redshifting in that same band. Since at redshifts of order z = 0:45 the
   light received in the R band corresponds approximately to the light
   emitted in the B band, we calculate a generalization of the K
   correction, KRB, that gives the magnitude difference between the rest
   frame B magnitude and the observed R magnitude. This is described in
   more detail at this meeting by Kim et al. (1996), and Kim, Goobar, &
   Perlmutter (1996). In the past year, the case has become quite strong
   that SNe Ia are a family of very similar events, not all identical.
   Hamuy et al. (1995) and Riess, Press, and Kirshner (1995) present
   evidence indicating that this family can be described by a single
   parameter, essentially representing the shape or width of the light
   curve, and that this parameter is tightly correlated with the absolute
   magnitude at maximum. The broad, slow-light-curve supernovae appear
   somewhat brighter, while the narrow, fast-light-curve supernovae are
   somewhat fainter. Hamuy et al. used Phillips' (1993) characterizations
   of this light curve width, \Delta m15, the magnitude drop in the first
   15 days past maximum, and fit their data to template light curves from
   supernovae representing various \Delta m15 values. Riess et al. added
   and subtracted different amounts of a "correction template" to a
   Leibundgut "normal" template (Leibundgut et al. 1991 and references
   therein) to represent this same light curve variation. For our
   preliminary analysis, we have chosen a third alternative approach, to
   stretch or compress the time axis of the Leibundgut template by a
   "stretch factor" s. We find that this simple parameterization gives
   variations on the light curve that fit the variety of SNe Ia and can be
   translated to Phillips' \Delta m15 via the formula \Delta m15 = 1:7=s
   \Gamma 0:6. Calibrating nearby supernovae with this s-factor, we find
   the width-brightness relation can be characterized by a magnitude
   correction of \Delta mag = 2:35(1 \Gamma s \Gamma 1), which closely
   matches Hamuy et al's \Delta m15 correction. At this meeting, and
   since, a number of other supernova observables have been discussed as
   indicators of a given supernova's brightness within the SN Ia family.
   Branch et al. (1996) have discussed the correlation with B \Gamma V and
   U \Gamma B color, while Nugent et al. (1996) has pointed out indicative
   spectral features, suggesting that temperature may provide a single
   theoretical parameter that characterizes the variations within the SN
   Ia family. These recent developments suggest that our final reduced
   "data product" must include not only the K-corrected magnitude at peak,
   but also any available information on light-curve width, colors, and
   spectral features that might locate the supernova within the family of
   fast-and-faint to broad-and-bright SNe Ia. 9 6. Preliminary Scientific
   Results Having gathered and reduced these data, what scientific results
   can we glean from them? Other talks at this meeting from the Supernova
   Cosmology Project group address the uses of this data to determine
   limits on the spatial variability of the Hubble constant (Kim et al.
   1996), to demonstrate the time dilation of a "standard clock" at
   cosmological distances (Goldhaber et al. 1996), and to provide a first
   direct measurement of the SN Ia rate at z , 0:4 (Pain et al. 1996). We
   will here discuss the homogeneity and widthbrightness relation of SNe
   Ia at z , 0:4 and implications for measuring q0. Note that all the
   results should be understood as preliminary, since we are now
   concluding the final stages of calibration and cross-checking the
   analysis. To use high-redshift SNe Ia as distance indicators, we must
   first ask if the width-brightness relation holds at z , 0:4. In Figure
   4, we plot the stretch factor--or equivalently \Delta m15--versus the
   K-corrected and Galacticextinction-corrected absolute magnitude (for a
   given q0 and H0), and we find a correlation that is consistent with
   that found for nearby supernovae (shown as a solid line). A different
   choice of q0 would only change the scale on the magnitude axis (and
   slightly jitter the magnitude values, since the supernovae are not all
   at exactly the same redshift), but this would not affect the agreement
   between the near and distant width-brightness relation. Using the
   width-brightness relation as a magnitude "correction," established
   using only nearby SNe Ia, tightens the dispersion of the high redshift
   supernova K-corrected peak magnitudes from oeraw = 0:32 mag to
   oecorrected = 0:21 mag. These dispersions are quite comparable to those
   found for nearby SNe Ia before and after correcting for the
   width-brightness relation. When we turn to the other indicators of SN
   Ia family status, although the analysis is still incomplete, we find
   one good cross-check for the brightest of our high redshift supernovae,
   SN 1994H. For this supernova, a B\Gamma R color was measured at peak,
   which after K-correction is an indicator of U \Gamma B color in the
   supernova rest frame. The B \Gamma R color indicates that SN 1994H is
   very similar to SN 1991T, which had a broad and bright light curve. SN
   1991T had an s-factor of ,1.08, and our preliminary value for SN 1994H
   is s = 1:06 \Sigma 0:08, broader and brighter than any of the other
   high redshift supernovae of this sample with well-measured lightcurve
   widths. Ideally, these cross checks will be available for all future
   high-redshift supernovae. This will be particularly important for cases
   for which the light curves are not complete enough for an accurate
   measurement of the lightcurve width. For our preliminary estimate of
   q0, we have used a few approaches. The first is to apply the
   width-brightness correction to all seven of the high10 stretch factor,
   s MB (q 0=0 .5,H 0=8 5) - 18 .62 flflWidth-Brightnessfl Relationflfor
   Nearby SNefl fl 1.5 1.1 0.82.2 \Delta m15 Figure 4. K-corrected
   absolute B magnitude (for q0 = 0:5 and H0 = 85 m s \Gamma 1Mpc\Gamma 1)
   versus stretch factor, s, representing the width of the SN Ia template
   light curve that best fits the high-redshift supernovae. The solid line
   shows the relation between MB and s found for nearby SNe Ia. redshift
   supernovae, on the assumption that they are all SNe Ia with negligible
   extinction and that the zero point of the width-brightness relation--
   the intercept of Figure 4--has not evolved in the ,4 billion years back
   to z , 0:4. Given the range of host galaxy ages for the nearby
   supernovae used to derive this relation, it is unlikely that it would
   have a very different intercept (but the same slope) at z , 0:4. Figure
   5 shows the results of this analysis plotted on a Hubble diagram,
   together with the relatively nearby SNe Ia of Hamuy et al. (1995).
   Comparing the upper and lower panels, it is clear that the scatter
   about the Hubble line decreases for both near and high-redshift
   supernovae after correcting for the width-brightness relation, although
   the error bars increase in the cases for which the light-curve width
   (s-factor or \Delta m15) is poorly constrained by the photometry data.
   The three supernovae with the smallest error bars, after correction for
   the width-brightness relation, are all near the redshift z = 0:37 and
   their data points in Figure 5, lower panel, lie on top of each other.
   They favor a relatively high value for q0. Note that before the
   width-brightness correction (Figure 5, upper panel) their data points
   spread from q0 ss \Gamma 0:5 (upper dotted line) to q0 ? 1 (lower
   dotted line); generally, the correction has brightened as many points
   as it has dimmed. 11 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5log(cz) 14 16 18 20 22 effe
   ctiv e m B 14 16 18 20 22 24 effe ctiv e m B Hamuy et al. flfl (1995)
   data Perlmutter et al.fl(1994, 1995a,b) datafl fl Raw Data qo = 0.5 qo
   = 0 11 Current SNe flfl(Perlmutter et al. 1995c) Preliminary Analysis
   Lightcurve WidthflCalibrated Data Figure 5. Hubble diagrams for first
   seven supernovae (preliminary analysis). Upper panel: "raw" apparent
   magnitude measurements, after K correction from R-band (observed) to
   B-band (supernova rest frame), versus redshift. The upper dotted curve
   is calculated for q0 = \Gamma 0:5, the two solid curves are for q0 = 0
   and q0 = 0:5, and the lower dotted curve is for q0 = 1. Lower panel:
   apparent magnitude measurements after "correction" for width-brightness
   relation. Note that the three points with the smallest error bars lie
   on top of each other, in this plot. Inset: Points represent redshifts
   for the most recent 11 supernova discoveries that are still being
   followed. 12 As an alternative approach to the q0 measurement, we have
   also determined the value found for SN 1994G alone. In the case of this
   supernova we can avoid assumptions, because there is a strong spectrum
   for type identification, and its B \Gamma R and R \Gamma I colors are
   consistent with a "normal" SN Ia with no significant reddening. In
   particular, the (observed) R \Gamma I color passes the (rest-frame) B
   \Gamma V cut proposed in Vaughan et al. (1995) to test for normal,
   unreddened SNe Ia. This is also consistent with its stretch factor,
   which is within error consistent with an s = 1 standard Leibundgut
   template. For SN 1994G, we find a preliminary value of q0 = 0:8\Sigma
   0:35\Sigma 0:3, where the second error is a preliminary bound on
   systematic error including a \Gamma 0:1 estimate for possible Malmquist
   bias discussed below. This is consistent with the
   width-brightness-corrected result for the whole sample of seven
   supernovae. (We re-emphasize that these values are currently undergoing
   their final calibrations and cross-checks, although they are unlikely
   to change significantly.) 7. Discussion and Conclusion Given the error
   bars, our current measurements of q0 do not yet clearly distinguish
   between an empty q0 = 0 and closed q0 ? 0:5 universe. The data do,
   however, indicate that a decelerating q0 * 0 is a better fit than an
   accelerating q0 ! 0 universe. This is an important conclusion since it
   limits the possibility that q0 = \Omega 0=2 \Gamma \Omega \Lambda is
   dominated by the cosmological constant \Lambda (where \Omega \Lambda is
   the normalized cosmological constant \Lambda (3H0) \Gamma 2). In an
   accelerating universe, high values for the Hubble constant do not
   conflict with the ages of the oldest stars, because the universe was
   expanding more slowly in the past. However, in a "flat" universe, in
   which \Omega 0 + \Omega \Lambda = 1, a cosmological constant \Omega
   \Lambda * 0:5 would give an acceleration q0 ^ \Gamma 0:25, a poor fit
   to our data. Note that extinction of the distant supernovae would make
   this evidence of deceleration even stronger, as would the possibility
   of inhomogeneous matter distribution in the universe as described by
   Kantowski, Vaughan, & Branch (1995), since both of these would lead to
   underestimates of q0 if not taken into account. (Our future analyses
   will bound or measure extinction using multiple colors to differentiate
   reddening from intrinsic color differences within the SN Ia family.
   Riess et al. (1996) discussed this approach at this conference.) It
   will be important to compare the q0 value from our most distant
   supernovae to the value from our closest high-redshift supernovae to
   look for Malmquist bias. An estimate of the size of this bias using our
   studies of our detection efficiency as a function of magnitude suggests
   that a 0.2 mag intrinsic dispersion in calibrated SN Ia magnitudes
   would lead to an 13 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 \Omega 0 Age < 9.6 Gyr fl
   (H=50 km/s/Mpc) No Big Bang SN at z = 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
   -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 \Omega = \Lambda /(3H 0)2 \Lambda SN
   at z = 1 \Omega T = \Omega \Lambda + \Omega 0 = 1 Figure 6. Theoretical
   bands of allowed parameter space in the \Omega \Lambda versus \Omega 0
   plane, for the hypothetical example of two SNe Ia discovered at z = 0:5
   and at z = 1 in a universe with \Omega \Lambda = 0 and \Omega 0 =1
   (from Goobar and Perlmutter 1995). The width of the bands is due to
   uncertainty in the apparent magnitude measurement of the supernovae.
   The intersection region would provide a measurement of both \Lambda and
   \Omega 0. The shaded corners are ruled out by other observations, as
   indicated. overestimate of 0.1 in q0, if not accounted for (Pain et al.
   1996, and see also Schmidt et al. 1996). We will complete the
   observations and analyses of the next 11 supernovae soon, and be able
   to greatly strengthen the certainty of these conclusions. The new data
   set is expected to have significantly smaller error bars, particularly
   after calibration of the width-brightness relation, and it should be
   possible to distinguish the empty, q0 = 0, and closed, q0 ? 0:5,
   universes. The redshift of these supernovae are plotted in the inset of
   Figure 5. Note that the highest redshift supernova, at z , 0:65, would
   be over 0.35 magnitudes brighter in a closed universe than in an empty
   universe. For the future, it should be possible to measure both \Omega
   0 and \Lambda , even if the universe is not assumed to be flat. The
   apparent magnitude of a "calibrated candle" depends on both \Omega 0
   and \Lambda , but with different powers of z. The discovery of still
   higher redshift supernovae, at z , 1, can therefore locate our universe
   in the \Omega 0 vs. \Lambda parameter plane, as shown in Figure 6. The
   feasibility of this measurement is discussed in Goobar and Perlmutter
   (1995). 14 We have shown here that the scheduled discovery and follow
   up of batches of pre-maximum high-redshift supernovae can be
   accomplished routinely, that the comparison with nearby supernovae can
   be accomplished with a generalized K-correction, and that a
   width-brightness calibration can be applied to standardize the
   magnitudes. Ideally this will now become a standard method in the
   field, and SNe Ia beyond z = 0:35 will become a well-studied distance
   indicator--as they already are for z ! 0:1-- useful for measuring the
   cosmological parameters. The prospects for this look good: already
   several other supernova groups have now started highredshift searches.
   Schmidt et al (1996) and Della Valle et al (1996), at this meeting
   discussed two of these. The many presentations at this exciting meeting
   have discussed recent advances in our empirical and theoretical
   understanding of Type Ia supernovae. The resulting supernova-based
   measurement of the cosmological parameters is an impressive consequence
   of these efforts of the entire supernova research community. The
   observations described in this paper were primarily obtained as
   visiting/guest astronomers at the Isaac Newton and William Herschel
   Telescopes, operated by the Royal Greenwich Observatory at the Spanish
   Observatorio del Roque de los Muchachos of the Instituto de Astrofisica
   de Canarias; the Kitt Peak National Observatory 4-meter and 2.1-meter
   telescopes and Cerro Tololo Interamerican Observatory 4-meter
   telescope, both operated by the National Optical Astronomy Observatory
   under contract to the National Science Foundation; the Keck Ten-meter
   Telescope; and the Siding Springs 2.3-meter Telescope of the Australian
   National University. We thank the staff of these observatories for
   their excellent support. Other observers contributed to this data as
   well; in particular, we thank Marc Postman, Tod Lauer, William Oegerle,
   and John Hoessel for their more extended participation in the
   observing. This work was supported in part by the Physics Division, E.
   O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory of the U. S. Department of
   Energy under Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF000098, and by the National
   Science Foundation's Center for Particle Astrophysics, University of
   California, Berkeley under grant No. ADT-88909616. References 1. D.
   Branch et al. 1996, this volume. 2. M. Della Valle et al. 1996, this
   volume. 3. G. Goldhaber et al, 1996, this volume. 4. A. Goobar and S.
   Perlmutter. Ap. J., 450:14, 1995. 5. M. Hamuy, M. M. Phillips, J. Maza,
   N. B. Suntzeff, R. A. Schommer, and R. Aviles. Astron. J., 109:1, 1995.
   6. R. Kantowski, T.E. Vaughan, and D. Branch. Ap. J., 447:35, 1995. 15
   7. A. Kim et al. 1996, this volume. 8. A. Kim, A. Goobar, and S.
   Perlmutter. Pub. Astr. Soc. Pacific, 1996, in press. 9. B. Leibundgut,
   G.A. Tammann, R. Cadonau, and D. Cerrito. Astro. Astrophys. Suppl.
   Ser., 89:537, 1991. 10. H.U. No/rgaard-Nielsen, L. Hansen, H.E.
   Jorgensen, A.A. Salamanca, R.S. Ellis, and W.J. Couch. Nature, 339:523,
   1989. 11. P. Nugent, M. Phillips, E. Baron, D. Branch, and P.
   Hauschildt. Ap.J.Lett., 1996, in press. 12. R. Pain et al. 1996, this
   volume, and forthcoming publication. 13. S. Perlmutter, C. R.
   Pennypacker, G. Goldhaber, A. Goobar, R. A. Muller, H. J. M. Newberg,
   J. Desai, A. G. Kim, M. Y. Kim, I. A. Small, B. J. Boyle, C. S.
   Crawford, R. G. McMahon, P. S. Bunclark, D. Carter, M. J. Irwin, R. J.
   Terlevich, R. S. Ellis, K. Glazebrook, W. J. Couch, J. R. Mould, T. A.
   Small, and R. G. Abraham. Ap.J., 440:L41, 1995a. 14. S. Perlmutter et
   al. International Astronomical Union Circular, 1994, nos. 5956 and
   5958. 15. S. Perlmutter et al. International Astronomical Union
   Circular, 1995b, no. 6263. 16. S. Perlmutter et al. International
   Astronomical Union Circular, 1995c, no. 6270. 17. M. M. Phillips.
   Ap.J., 413:L105, 1993. 18. A. G. Riess et al. 1996, this volume. 19. A.
   G. Riess, W. H. Press, and R. P. Kirshner. Ap.J., 438:L17, 1995. 20. B.
   Schmidt et al. 1996, this volume. 21. T. Vaughan, D. Branch, D. Miller,
   and S. Perlmutter. Ap.J., 439:558, 1995.
