http://www.ssa.gov/history/fperkins.html

                                pioneers logo

                 home | feedback | search the site | sitemap

                               FRANCES PERKINS

        Portrait photo of Frances Perkins
       photo of Frances Perkins signature
       "I came to Washington to work for God, FDR, and the millions of
       forgotten, plain common workingmen."

      Frances Perkins was born on April 10, 1882 in Boston, Massachusetts.
      She graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1902, and Columbia
      University in 1910 with a master's degree in sociology. In 1910 she
      became head of the New York Consumer's League, lobbying for better
      working hours and conditions. In 1933, Franklin Roosevelt appointed Ms.
      Perkins as his Secretary of Labor, a position she held for twelve
      years, longer than any other Secretary of Labor and making her the
      first woman to hold a cabinet position in the United States.


   Historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. has described Frances Perkins in vivid
   terms: "Brisk and articulate, with vivid dark eyes, a broad forehead
   and a pointed chin, usually wearing a felt tricorn hart, she remained a
   Brahmin reformer, proud of her New England background . . . and intent
   on beating sense into the heads of those foolish people who resisted
   progress. She had pungency of character, a dry wit, an inner gaiety, an
   instinct for practicality, a profound vein of religious feeling, and a
   compulsion to instruct . . ."

      As Secretary of Labor she played a key role writing New Deal
      legislation, including minimum wage laws. However, her most important
      contribution came in 1934 as chairwoman of the President's Committee on
      Economic Security. In this position she was involved in all aspects of
      the reports and hearings that ultimately resulted in the Social
      Security Act of 1935.

      Prior to going to Washington, Perkins held positions in State
      government in New York, first as an aid to governor Al Smith and then
      to Franklin Roosevelt when he became governor. Smith, a machine
      politian from the old school, was an early social reformer with whom
      Frances Perkins made many a common-cause. At Smith's funeral in 1944
      two of his former Tammany Hall political cronies were overheard to
      speculate on why Smith had become a social crusader. One of them summed
      the matter up this way: "I'll tell you. Al Smith read a book. That book
      was a person, and her name was Frances Perkins. She told him all these
      things and he believed her."

      Following her tenure as Secretary of Labor in 1945, Ms. Perkins was
      asked by President Truman to serve on the U.S. Civil Service
      Commission, which she did until 1952 when her husband died, and she
      resigned from Federal service. Following her government service career,
      Ms. Perkins continued to be active as a teacher and lecturer until her
      death on May 14, 1965.

     Additional material related to Frances Perkins
     Mini Biography of Frances Perkins at Department of Labor Web Site
     Brief SSA Biography of Frances Perkins, with Selection of Perkins
     Quotes
     Text of Frances Perkins Radio Address on Social Insurance (1935)
     Audio Recording of 1935 Radio Broadcast
     OASIS Article Regarding Perkins' Speech on the 25th Anniversary of
     Social Security
     Miss Perkins' "Roots of Social Security" Speech
     FRANCES PERKINS PHOTO GALLERY
