http://kids.msfc.nasa.gov/news/2001/news-stationpower.asp

   NASA Logo



     Join NASA KIDS

                                 Send a NASA
                                KIDS Post Card
                             Picture of Postcard

   Buzzwords
   none
   More About It:

   Power & Propulsion Office  at NASA's Glenn Research Center

   Powering the Future by NASA's Lewis Research Center

   Space Charge by NASA's Science @ NASA

   When Can I See the Space Station?  by NASA's Liftoff to Space
   Exploration

   Link to audio version of article
   Requires RealPlayer



      New Science
      Link to the Explorer version of this article Power to the Space Station
      Link to audio version of this article
      December 7, 2001


                                         Astronauts shaving in space
   Power on the Station not only provides life support, but familiar
                                               things like shaving.

      Without electrical power, living on the International Space Station
      wouldn't be possible.  Even the air the crew breathes is made using
      electricity.  Electricity runs the Station's air and water systems,
      keeps the lights on, pumps liquids, warms meals, and runs computers.
      It even lets crewmembers talk to school children by Ham radio.  There's
      no doubt about it, electric power is very important to the Station.

      Providing electricity to a home flying 350 km in the sky is a big
      challenge.  After all, the crew can't drop a power cord down and plug
      it in somewhere!  And constantly carrying fuel up from Earth would be
      too expensive.

      The best solution is sunlight.  The Sun radiates a lot of power.  The
      trick is to convert that power into electricity for the Station.
      NASA's Glenn Research Center is where engineers work to find ways to do
      just that.  They designed the eight large, wing-like solar arrays that
      are the most recognizable things on the Station.  The solar arrays are
      each 34 meters long and 11 meters wide (112 ft x 39 ft) and hold a
      total of 262,400 solar cells.  On Earth, they would cover more than
      half of an American football field!  A computer rotates the arrays to
      keep them tilted toward the Sun.


   Space Station in orbit
   Solar arrays are the easiest things to see on the International Space
   Station, and maybe the most important!

      But the Sun is not always "up," because the Station spends about
      one-third of its time in the Earth's shadow.  During the shadow time
      the Station relies on rechargeable batteries to provide power.

      Switching back and forth between solar cells and battery power was a
      challenge, too.  The change has to be automatic, so the crew doesn't
      have to do it, and there can't be any glitches in the constant power to
      systems and experiments.

      So how much power do those big solar arrays produce?  David McKissock,
      a power management system analyst at Glenn says the result is 110 kW of
      power.  Even after accounting for all the life support and battery
      charging, that still leaves 46 kW of power for science experiments.
      That's enough to run 50 to 55 houses!

   see caption
   This circuit isolation device acts like a lightning rod to reduce the
   chances of a spacewalking astronaut being shocked.

      There's another problem with electricity, one that could be dangerous
      for astronauts.  The Station can build up a strong electrical charge on
      the outside hull.  As a result, space-walking astronauts could get
      shocks from touching the metal hull of the Station.

      To prevent that, the Glenn center developed devices such as "plasma
      contactors," which neutralize the charge on the hull, and "circuit
      isolation devices," or CIDs, which let a space-walking astronaut turn
      off sections of electrical circuits.  Without CIDs, large portions of
      the Station would have to be powered down during some spacewalks.

      Thanks to technological advances such as these, the lights are always
      shining brightly -- and safely -- on the International Space Station!





   Living on the International Space Station:
     * Staying Cool on the Space Station - keeping the temperature just
       right
     * Home, Sweet Home - Living and keeping house on the Space Station
     * Plumbing the Space Station - How does water flow without gravity?
     * Housekeeping on the Station - Even in space you have to take out
       the trash once in a while.
     * Tiny Stowaways on Space Station - There are microbes everywhere
       humans go, including the Space Station. The crew must keep them
       under control.
     * Clean Air for the Space Station - Life support systems on the
       Station must supply oxygen and remove contaminants in the Station's
       air.
     * Water on the Space Station - The Station must provide clean water
       for the crew.

   Mascot pointing out more links


      Editors: Gil Knier & Becky Bray
   Link to NASAKIDS home


   That's Hot Stuff!
   The Sun radiates 4 x 10^23 kilowatts (kW) of power, which is a 4
   followed by 23 zeros!  If we could collect it all, the Sun's power
   output would be enough to supply 31,000 billion Earths!

   However, the Sun radiates energy out in all directions so our planet
   only receives about a billionth of the total.  This is still a lot of
   power.  "If we turned all the water in Lake Erie into fuel oil and
   burned it all in a single second, we'd produce about the same amount of
   energy as we get from the sunlight that strikes Earth in one day,"
   explains Sheila Bailey, a research physicist at NASA's Glenn Research
   Center in Cleveland, Ohio.

   [batteries.jpg]
   Batteries Included
   The batteries used to help power the Station have thirty-eight cells
   connected together.  The batteries, which are recharged during the sun
   pass of each orbit, should last more than 5 years.

   [outlet.jpg]
   Station power is a bit different from the electricity in our homes on
   Earth, though. Rather than the familiar alternating current (AC), the
   Station runs on direct current (DC) power. Electrical devices built for
   the Station can use the station's 120-volt DC power, but appliances
   from Earth such as portable CD players or electric razors must be
   changed to use the unusual power.



   More New Science
   Power to the Station!
   A Change of Space
   The Leonids Are Coming
   A Harvest Moon
   Space Walking
   Older News



                                  Write Us
                              December 07, 2001
