http://www.sdd.uscourts.gov/faq.htm

   court2.gif Banner Image court2.gif
   [EMBED]
     * Federal Judges
     * Who appoints federal judges?
     * How are new judgeships created?
     * What are the qualifications for becoming a federal judge?
     * How is a chief judge selected?
     * What is a senior judge?
     * What are bankruptcy judges? How are they appointed?
     * What are federal magistrate judges?

   Court Information
     * How many courts of appeals are there?
     * How many district courts are there?

   Filing a Case
     * How do I file a civil case? Is there a charge?
     * How do I file a criminal case?
     * How do I file for bankruptcy? Is there a charge?
     * How can I find a lawyer?
     * How can I check on the status of my case? Can I review case files?
     * When will the court reach a decision in my case?
     * How are judges assigned to cases?
     * How do I file a complaint against a judge?

     * Juror information
     * How are jurors contacted for service in federal court?
     * Must I respond to my jury duty notice?
     * Who may serve as a juror?
     * Will I be paid for jury service?
     * What if the distance to the courthouse is too far or too difficult
       for me to travel?
     * What if the dates of my jury service conflict with my work or
       vacation schedule?
     * Why have some people never been called for jury duty?

   The Judicial Conference
     * What is the Judicial Conference of the United States? When was it
       established?
     * What are the duties and responsibilities of the Judicial
       Conference?
     * Who are the members of the Judicial Conference?
     * When and where does the Judicial Conference meet?
     * How does the Judicial Conference do its work?
     * Who are the committee members and how are they appointed?

   Employment
     * How do I find out about job openings in the federal courts?

   Q: Who appoints federal judges?

   Supreme Court justices, court of appeals judges, and district court
   judges are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United
   States Senate, as stated in the Constitution. The names of potential
   nominees often are recommended by senators or sometimes members of the
   House who are of the President's political party. The Senate Judiciary
   Committee typically conducts confirmation hearings for each nominee.
   Article III of the Constitution states that these judicial officers are
   appointed for a life term. The federal Judiciary, the Judicial
   Conference of the United States, and the Administrative Office of the
   U.S. Courts play no role in the nomination and confirmation process.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How are new judgeships created?

   Court of appeals and district court judgeships are created by
   legislation that must be enacted by Congress. New judgeships were last
   created in December 1990, under Public Law 101-650, which established
   11 new court of appeals and 74 new district court judgeships. The
   Judicial Conference (through its Judicial Resources Committee) surveys
   the judgeship needs of the courts every other year. A threshold for the
   number of weighted filings per judgeship is the key factor in
   determining when an additional judgeship will be requested. Other
   factors may include geography, number of senior judges, and mix of
   cases. The Judicial Conference presents its judgeship recommendations
   to Congress.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What are the qualifications for becoming a federal judge?

   The Constitution sets forth no specific requirements. However, members
   of Congress, who typically recommend potential nominees, and the
   Department of Justice, which reviews nominees' qualifications, have
   developed their own informal criteria.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How is a chief judge selected?

   One is not nominated or appointed to the position of chief judge
   (except for the Chief Justice of the United States); they assume the
   position based on seniority. The same criteria exists for circuit and
   district chiefs. The chief judge is the judge in regular active service
   who is senior in commission of those judges who are (1) 64 years of age
   or under; (2) have served for one year or more as a judge; and (3) have
   not previously served as chief judge.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What is a senior judge?

   The "Rule of 80" is the commonly used shorthand for the age and service
   requirement for a judge to assume senior status, as set forth in Title
   28 of the US. Code, Section 371(c). Beginning at age 65, a judge may
   retire at his or her current salary or take senior status after
   performing 15 years of active service as an Article III judge (65+15 =
   80). A sliding scale of increasing age and decreasing service results
   in eligibility for retirement compensation at age 70 with a minimum of
   10 years of service (70+10=80). Senior judges, who essentially provide
   volunteer service to the courts, typically handle about 15 percent of
   the federal courts' workload annually.

   [redbar.gif]
   Q: What are bankruptcy judges? How are they appointed?

   A U.S. bankruptcy judge is a judicial officer of the U.S. district
   court who is appointed by the majority of judges of the U.S. court of
   appeals to exercise jurisdiction over bankruptcy matters. The number of
   bankruptcy judges is determined by Congress. The Judicial Conference of
   the United States is required to submit recommendations from time to
   time regarding the number of bankruptcy judges needed. Bankruptcy
   judges are appointed for 14-year terms.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What are federal magistrate judges?

   A U.S. magistrate judge is a judicial officer of the district court and
   is appointed by majority vote of the active district judges of the
   court to exercise jurisdiction over matters assigned by statute as well
   as those delegated by the district judges. The number of magistrate
   judge positions is determined by the Judicial Conference of the United
   States, based on recommendations of the respective district courts, the
   judicial councils of the circuits, and the Director of the
   Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. A full-time magistrate judge
   serves a term of eight years. Duties assigned to magistrate judges by
   district court judges may vary considerably from court to court.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How many courts of appeals are there?

   There are 13 judicial circuits, each with a court of appeals. The
   smallest court is the First Circuit with six judgeships, and the
   largest court is the Ninth Circuit, with 28 judgeships. A list of the
   states that compose each circuit is set forth in Title 28 of the U.S.
   Code, Section 41. The number of judgeships in each circuit is set forth
   in Title 28 of the U.S. Code, Section 44.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How many district courts are there?

   There are 89 districts in the 50 states, which are listed with their
   divisions in Title 28 of the U.S. Code, Sections 81-144. District
   courts also exist in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the District of
   Columbia, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. In total there are 94
   U.S. district courts. Some states, such as Alaska, are composed of a
   single judicial district. Others, such as California, are composed of
   multiple judicial districts. The number of judgeships allotted to each
   district is set forth in Title 28 of the U.S. Code, Section 133.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How do I file a civil case? Is there a charge?

   A civil action is commenced by the filing of a complaint. Parties
   instituting a civil action in a district court are required to pay a
   filing fee pursuant to Title 28, U.S. Code, Section 1914. The current
   fee is $150. Complaints may be accompanied by an application to proceed
   in forma pauperis, meaning that the plaintiff is incapable of paying
   the filing fee.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How do I file a criminal case?

   Individuals do not file criminal charges in U.S. district courts. A
   criminal proceeding is initiated by the government, usually through the
   U.S. attorney's office in coordination with a law enforcement agency.
   Allegations of criminal behavior should be brought to local police, the
   FBI, or other appropriate law enforcement agency.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How do I file for bankruptcy? Is there a charge?

   A bankruptcy case is commenced by the filing of a petition. You must
   also file a statement of your assets and liabilities, and schedules
   listing your creditors. If you choose to file a bankruptcy petition
   without the assistance of an attorney, you can obtain the required
   forms at most stationery stores.

   There is a range of filing fees for bankruptcy cases, depending on the
   chapter of the bankruptcy code under which you file. Chapter 7, by far
   the most common form filed by individuals, involves an almost complete
   liquidation of the assets of the debtor, as well as a discharge of most
   debts. You must pay a fee of $200 to file a case under Chapter 7, which
   includes a $155 filing fee, a $30 miscellaneous fee, and a $15 trustee
   fee. See Bankruptcy Basics.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How can I find a lawyer?

   In most districts, local bar associations or similar groups offer
   lawyer referral services, usually without charge. The clerk's office in
   your district court should be able to put you in touch with such a
   service. Many clerk's offices also have developed informational packets
   explaining filing procedures and listing sources of legal assistance.
   Personnel in the clerk's office and other federal court employees are
   prohibited from providing legal advice to individual litigants.

   Defendants in criminal proceedings have a right to a lawyer, and are
   entitled by the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) to have counsel appointed at
   government expense if they are financially unable to obtain adequate
   representation by private counsel. The CJA, which is set forth in Title
   18, U.S. Code, Section 3006A, requires a court determination that a
   person is financially eligible for court-appointed counsel. A court may
   determine that a defendant is partially eligible for court-appointed
   counsel and order the defendant to contribute to the cost of
   representation. Counsel assigned to a defendant may be a private
   lawyer, who is a member of the court's panel of attorneys receiving CJA
   appointments, or, in many districts, an attorney who works for a
   federal defender organization. The clerk's office has forms that can be
   used to apply for the appointment of counsel.

   There is no right to free legal assistance in civil proceedings. Some
   litigants proceed pro se; that is, they represent themselves before the
   court.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How can I check on the status of my case? Can I review case files?

   Your lawyer, who likely is familiar with local court practice, is your
   best resource. Generally, all documents filed with a court are public
   records and are available through the clerk's office. By way of
   exception, some documents are sealed by special court order, and some
   documents are confidential by operation of law, such as grand jury
   materials and criminal files relating to juveniles.

   As the keeper of court records, the fee clerk's office responds to most
   inquiries on the status of a case once given the specific case name or
   docket number. In many courts, inquiries for information and requests
   to examine dockets, case files, exhibits, and other records are made at
   the intake area in the clerk's office. Inquiries often are made by
   phone. There is a $15 fee for the retrieval of information that is not
   readily available. A fee of $ .50 a page also is assessed for providing
   copies of court documents.

   Almost all federal courts have automated systems that allow for the
   search and retrieval of case-related information through personal
   computers at the public counters and through a dial-in service called
   PACER (Public Access to Court Electronic Records). Automated access to
   case-related information is available free of charge at the public
   counter in the clerk's office of most courts. The dial-in PACER
   service, which provides access from home or office for registered
   users, currently assesses a reasonable fee of $ .60 per minute of use.
   Options for providing this service over the internet are being
   investigated.

   In many bankruptcy and appellate courts there also are telephone
   information systems, which enable callers to obtain case information
   through the use of a touch tone phone. These systems are provided free
   of charge, are available 24 hours a day, and have a toll free number
   for long distance service.

    For more information, visit the Directory of Electronic Public Access
                                  Services.


                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: When will the court reach a decision in my case?

   Most cases are handled in an expeditious manner. The Speedy Trial Act
   of 1974 establishes standard time requirements for the timely
   prosecution and disposition of criminal cases in district courts. There
   is no similar law governing civil trial scheduling, and as a result,
   the scheduling of criminal cases is assigned a higher priority.

   In 1990, Congress enacted legislation that directs each district court
   to devise and adopt a civil expense and delay reduction plan. One goal
   established under the legislation is for each civil case to be
   scheduled for trial within 18 months of filing the complaint.

   Litigants should keep in mind that judges have many duties in addition
   to deciding cases. The average district court judge has more than 400
   newly filed cases to contend with each year. In addition to trials,
   judges conduct sentencings, pretrial conferences, settlement
   conferences, motions hearings, write orders and opinions, and consider
   other court matters both in the courtroom and in their chambers.

   There are numerous reasons for delay, many of which are outside of a
   court's control. Attorneys and/or litigants may be responsible. Cases
   may be delayed because settlement negotiations are in progress. Some
   courts also experience shortages in judges or available courtrooms.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How are judges assigned to cases?

   Judge assignment methods vary. The basic considerations in making
   assignments are to assure equitable distribution of caseload and avoid
   judge shopping. By statute, the chief judge of each district court has
   the responsibility to enforce the court's rules and orders on case
   assignments. Each court has a written plan or system for assigning
   cases. The majority of courts use some variation of a random drawing.
   One simple method is to rotate the names of available judges. At times
   judges having special expertise can be assigned cases by type, such as
   complex criminal cases, asbestos-related cases, or prisoner cases. The
   benefit of this system is that it takes advantage of the expertise
   developed by judges in certain areas. Sometimes cases may be assigned
   based on geographical considerations. For example, in a large
   geographical area it may be best to assign a case to a judge located at
   the site where the case was filed. Courts also have a system to check
   if there is any conflict that would make it improper for a judge to
   preside over a particular case.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How do I file a complaint against a judge?

   The complaint process is not intended to address complaints related to
   the merits of a case or a court's decision. Any person alleging that a
   judge of the United States has engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
   effective and expeditious administration of the business of the courts,
   or that such officer cannot discharge all the duties of the office
   because of physical or mental disability, may file a complaint with the
   clerk of the court of appeals for that circuit or applicable national
   court. The statute governing this complaint mechanism is set out at
   Title 28, U.S. Code, Section 372(c).

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How are jurors contacted for service in federal court?

   Before potential jurors are summoned for service, their names are
   randomly drawn from voters lists (and sometimes drivers lists) to
   receive a questionnaire to determine whether they meet the legal
   qualifications for jury service. Individuals who receive questionnaires
   are required to complete and return them to the clerk's office, which
   then screens the completed questionnaires to determine eligibility for
   jury service. (In some courts, qualification questionnaires and
   summonses are mailed together.)

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: Must I respond to my jury duty notice?

   Yes, it is legally required, and there are penalties for noncompliance.
   Jurors perform a vital role in the American system of justice. Jury
   service is an important civic function that supports one of the
   fundamental rights of citizens--the right to have their cases decided
   by a jury of their peers.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: Who may serve as a juror?

   The Jury Act, which is set out at Title 28, U.S. Code, Sections
   1861-1878, calls for random selection of citizens' names from voters
   lists or combined voters and drivers lists. (Because random selection
   is required, individuals may not volunteer for service.)

   The act states that individuals are legally disqualified from service:
     * if they are not a citizen of the United States 18 years old, who
       has resided for a period of one year within the judicial district;
     * if they are unable to read, write, and understand the English
       language with a degree of proficiency necessary to fill out a
       qualification form;
     * if they are unable to speak the English language;
     * if they are incapable by reason of mental or physical infirmity to
       render jury service; or
     * if they have felony charges pending against them or they have been
       convicted of a felony and their civil rights have not been
       restored.

   In addition, the Jury Act lists three groups that are exempt from
   federal jury service:
     * members of the armed forces on active duty;
     * members of professional fire and police departments; and
     * "public officers" of federal, state or local governments, who are
       actively engaged in the performance of public duties.

   Persons belonging to these groups may not serve on federal juries, even
   if they so desire.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: Will I be paid for jury service?

   Yes, federal jurors are paid $40 a day. (Employees of the federal
   government are paid their regular salary in lieu of this fee.) In most
   courts, jurors also are reimbursed for reasonable transportation
   expenses and parking fees.

   Your employer may continue your salary during all or part of your jury
   service, but is not required to do so. Nonetheless, the Jury Act
   forbids any employer from firing, intimidating, or coercing any
   permanent employee because of their federal jury service.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What if the distance to the courthouse is too far or too difficult
   for me to travel?

   The Jury Act allows courts to permanently excuse a juror from service
   at the time he or she is summoned on the grounds of "undue hardship or
   extreme inconvenience" if the distance to the courthouse makes it
   difficult for the juror to travel. The juror should write a letter to
   the chief judge of the court requesting an excuse with an explanation
   of hardship. As with temporary deferrals, whether to grant an excuse is
   a matter of discretion for the court and cannot be reviewed or appealed
   to Congress or any other entity.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What if the dates of my jury service conflict with my work or
   vacation schedule?

   The Jury Act allows courts to grant temporary deferrals of service on
   the grounds of "undue hardship or extreme inconvenience." The
   qualification questionnaire and juror summons provides specific
   information on how to request a deferral from your individual court.
   Whether to grant a deferral is a matter of discretion for the court and
   cannot be reviewed or appealed to Congress or any other entity.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: Why have some people never been called for jury duty?

   Eligibility for federal jury service is dependent both upon an
   individual meeting the legal qualifications for service and upon the
   random chance of having one's name drawn from the source lists.

   Each judicial district must have a formal written plan for the
   selection of jurors, which provides for random selection from a fair
   cross-section of the community in the district, and which prohibits
   discrimination in the selection process. Voter records--either voter
   registration lists or lists of actual voters--are the required source
   of names for federal court juries. Some courts supplement voter lists
   with other sources, such as lists of licensed drivers. A copy of a
   district's jury plan is available for review in the clerk's office.

   In addition, many courts offer excuses from service, on individual
   request, to designated groups of persons or occupational classes. Such
   groups may include persons over age 70; persons who have, within the
   past two years, served on a federal jury; and persons who serve as
   volunteer fire fighters or members of a rescue squad or ambulance crew.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What is the Judicial Conference of the United States? When was it
   established?

   The Conference of Senior Circuit Judges was created by Congress in
   1922, to "serve as the principal policy making body concerned with the
   administration of the United States Courts." In 1948, Congress enacted
   Section 331 of Title 28, U.S. Code, changing the name to the Judicial
   Conference of the United States. District judges formally were added to
   the Conference in 1957.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: What are the duties and responsibilities of the Judicial Conference?

   As in 1922, the fundamental purpose of the Judicial Conference today is
   to make policy with regard to the administration of the United States
   courts. Section 331 of Title 28 specifically provides that the
   Conference shall:
     * make a comprehensive survey of the conditions of business in the
       courts of the United States;
     * prepare plans for the assignment of judges to or from courts of
       appeals or district courts, where necessary;
     * submit suggestions to the various courts in the interest of
       promoting uniformity of management procedures and the expeditious
       conduct of court business;
     * exercise authority provided in 28 U.S.C. Section 372(c) for the
       review of circuit council conduct and disability orders filed under
       that section and
     * carry on a continuous study of the operation and effect of the
       general rules of practice and procedure in use within the federal
       courts, as prescribed by the Supreme Court pursuant to law.

   The Judicial Conference also supervises the Director of the
   Administrative Office of the United States Courts in the performance of
   his duties as the administrative officer of the courts of the United
   States under 28 U.S.C. Section 604. In addition, certain statutes
   authorize the Judicial Conference to act in a variety of specific areas
   dealing with the administration of the courts.

   The Chief Justice is required to submit to Congress an annual report of
   the proceedings of the Judicial Conference and its recommendations for
   legislation.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: Who are the members of the Judicial Conference?

   The Chief Justice of the United States is the presiding officer of the
   Judicial Conference. Membership is comprised of the chief judge of each
   judicial circuit, the chief judge of the Court of International Trade,
   and a district judge from each regional judicial circuit, who is
   elected for a term of not less than three nor more than five successive
   years as established by majority vote of all circuit and district
   judges of the circuit represented (28 U.S.C. Section 331).

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: When and where does the Judicial Conference meet?

   The statute requires the Chief Justice to summon the Judicial
   Conference into session annually, at such time and place in the United
   States as he may designate. Traditionally the Chief Justice has
   convened two meetings of the Conference each year, one in September and
   one in March. The members are required to attend each session unless
   excused by the Chief Justice, who will then designate a replacement.
   The Conference generally meets in Washington, D.C., at the Supreme
   Court Building.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How does the Judicial Conference do its work?

   The Conference operates through a network of committees created to
   address and advise on a wide variety of subjects, such as automation,
   personnel, probation and pretrial services, sentencing, space and
   security, and judicial salaries and benefits. The seven-member
   Executive Committee of the Judicial Conference serves as the senior
   executive arm of the Conference, acting on its behalf between sessions
   on matters requiring emergency action. Among it responsibilities, the
   Executive Committee reviews the jurisdiction of Conference committees,
   and establishes and publishes procedures for assembling Conference and
   committee agendas.

   The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
   serves as Secretary to the Judicial Conference. The assistant director
   of the Office of the Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat in the
   Administrative Office coordinates administrative support to the
   Conference itself and its Executive Committee, and also coordinates the
   activities of the Executive Secretariat, which consists of senior
   members of the Administrative Office's professional staff, who dedicate
   all or a substantial portion of their time to the work of the Judicial
   Conference and its committees.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: Who are the committee members and how are they appointed?

   The Chief Justice has sole authority to make committee appointments.
   The Director of the Administrative Office and the assistant director,
   Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat collate the expressed
   interests of judicial officers and their recommendations of others who
   may be considered for appointments, and the Director forwards the
   suggestions to the Chief Justice. Committee chairpersons may appoint
   subcommittees composed of members of the committee. Appointment of
   subcommittees composed of non-committee members requires the approval
   of the Chief Justice.

   As a general rule, committee appointments are for a term of three
   years, subject to one reappointment. Terms are staggered to minimize
   turnover each year. Judges who desire committee service, or wish to
   recommend others for assignments, may make their interests or
   recommendations known at any time, in writing, to the Director of the
   Administrative Office (Attention: Judicial Conference Executive
   Secretariat). A permanent file is maintained for reference during the
   annual appointment process.

                                [redbar.gif]

   Q: How do I find out about employment opportunities in the federal
   courts?

   The federal court system's personnel decisions are decentralized. This
   means that each court unit does its own advertising and hiring for job
   positions. Court unit heads generally control the hiring within their
   office so that chief probation officers, staff attorneys, circuit
   executives, clerks of court, and circuit librarians each exercise such
   authority within their offices. Judges select and hire their own
   chambers staff. Some employment opportunities are available on this web
   site but often the clerk's office of the court of appeals, district, or
   bankruptcy court is the best source for a complete listing. The federal
   Judiciary is committed to the national policy of ensuring equal
   employment opportunity to all persons.


   [QuickLinks___]
   [rushmore.gif]
                                    F A Q
   These are some frequently asked questions about federal district court.
   If you should have further questions comments or suggestions, please
   contact us at (605) 330-4447
     Case Search | District Info | Jury Info | Documents | Bankruptcy |
   More
