http://www.ntia.doc.gov/oiahome/oiahome.html

                               NTIA OFFICE OF
   INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

   The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, NTIA,
   is the Executive Branch's principal voice on domestic and international
   telecommunications and information technology policy issues. NTIA's
   Office of International Affairs, OIA, acts as an advocate of U.S.
   commercial interests overseas. OIA promotes the need for competition
   and liberalization of telecommunications and information policies
   around the world. OIA's goal is to provide policy analyses, technical
   guidance, and representation in international fora, so as to advance
   the strategic interests and the international competitiveness of the
   United States before a diverse, world-wide audience.

   OIA's wide variety of activities are designed to further advance and
   promote these U.S. interests by advocating: 1) telecommunications and
   information standards consistent with U.S. objectives; 2) regulations
   governing the international use of the radio frequency spectrum; 3)
   regulatory policies pertaining to the provision of information and
   telecommunications services both within and between U.S. and foreign
   markets; and, 4) the deployment of new technologies in these markets,
   to improve global communications and expand trade opportunities for our
   citizens.

   OIA advocates Executive Branch policy perspectives in bilateral and
   multilateral consultations with foreign governments, in international
   regulatory conferences, and in other fora dealing with Global
   Information Infrastructure issues. Specific oversight responsibilities
   include, in cooperation with the State Department and with the FCC, the
   COMSAT Corporation's activities in the International Telecommunications
   Satellite Organization (INTELSAT) and the International Mobile
   Satellite Organization (Inmarsat), along with other developments in the
   satellite industry.

   To improve U.S. competitiveness in international markets, OIA provides
   policy and technical counsel to diverse U.S. interests. OIA helps NTIA
   in its mission to champion greater foreign market access, by: 1)
   advocating competition and liberalization of telecommunications and
   information technology policies around the world; 2) participating in
   international government-to-government negotiations to open markets for
   U.S. companies; and 3) negotiating with foreign governments to ensure
   that there is adequate spectrum for national defense, public safety,
   and U.S. business needs. OIA also provides information to the general
   public on a wide variety of telecommunications and information policy
   subjects, with links to foreign telecommunications ministries and
   licensing authorities.

     * OIA Staff Directory
     * Links to Related International Websites (Diane's List)
     * OIA Satellite Industry Website
     * Internship Opportunities with OIA
     * Job Opportunities with OIA

     * ENUM (Telephone Number Mapping Protocol)

      NTIA Privacy Policy

   Navigation Bar

   [celtic_b.gif]
