http://fire.pppl.gov/FESAC_BurnPlas_Charge.pdf

   October 5, 2000 Professor Richard D. Hazeltine, Chair Fusion Energy
   Sciences Advisory Committee Institute for Fusion Studies, RLM 11.218
   University of Texas at Austin Austin, TX 78712 Dear Professor
   Hazeltine: For many years, the U.S. magnetic fusion community has
   recognized that burning plasma physics is the next frontier of fusion
   research. In this regard, it is important to note that the September
   1990 Fusion Policy Advisory Committee report recommended
   "...construction as soon as possible of the U.S. Burning Plasma
   Facility." In the last two decades, the program has made several
   attempts, both international and domestic, to move forward on design
   and construction of a tokamak experimental device in which the science
   of burning plasmas could be explored. For various reasons, all these
   attempts failed. In the last few years, the U.S. fusion community has
   reconsidered its priorities and reorganized its efforts. The FESAC
   Report on Priorities and Balance within the Fusion Energy Sciences
   Program includes burning plasma physics as a part of a major thrust
   area, and the draft Integrated Program Planning Activity report
   includes a section on burning plasma physics. However, the community
   needs to come to consensus on two aspects of this issue. Therefore, I
   would like FESAC to address the scientific issues of burning plasma
   physics, as follows: 1. What scientific issues should be addressed by a
   burning plasma physics experiment and its major supporting elements?
   What are the different levels of self-heating that are needed to
   contribute to our understanding of these issues? 2. Which scientific
   issues are generic to toroidal magnetic confinement and which ones are
   concept-specific? What are the relative advantages of using various
   magnetic confinement concepts in studying burning plasma physics? 2 As
   a part of your considerations, please address how the Next Step Options
   program should be used to assist the community in its preparations for
   an assessment in 2004, as recommended in the Priorities and Balance
   report. I would like you to provide your report to the Office of
   Science by the end of July 2001. Sincerely, /s/ Mildred S. Dresselhaus
   Director Office of Science
