http://www.compliance.gov/images/nabetdec.pdf

   OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE LA 200, John Adams Building, 110 Second Street,
   S.E. Washington, D.C. 20540-1999 Office of the U.S. Senate ) Sergeant
   at Arms, ) Employing Office, )) and )) Case No. 97-LM-3 National
   Association of Broadcast Employees ) and Technicians, Communications
   Workers ) of America, AFL-CIO, ) Petitioner. ) Before the Board of
   Directors: Glen D. Nager, Chair; James N. Adler; Jerry M. Hunter;
   Lawrence Z. Lorber; Virginia A. Seitz, Members. DECISION AND DIRECTION
   OF ELECTION I. Petitioner, National Association of Broadcast Employees
   and Technicians, Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO
   ("Petitioner" or "NABET") has duly filed with the Board of Directors of
   the Office of Compliance ("the Board") a petition to represent
   employees of the U.S. Senate Recording Studio, which is under the
   jurisdiction of the Central Operations Department of the Office of the
   U.S. Senate Sergeant at Arms ( "Employing Office" or "SAA"). In
   response to the petition, the Board, acting pursuant to its authorities
   under Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, as applied by section
   220 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (the "CAA"), 2
   U.S.C. ยง 1351, and the regulations of the Office of Compliance, has
   investigated the petition. Finding that there is a question concerning
   representation, the Board held a pre-election investigatory hearing to
   develop a record upon which to make a decision. II. NABET seeks to
   represent a group of employees of the U.S. Senate Recording Studio. The
   Recording Studio provides the Senate with television, radio, and
   videotape services, including live and videotaped gavel-to-gavel
   coverage of Senate floor and committee proceedings, as well as field
   coverage of press conferences and other events which occur at sites
   other than the Senate floor or the Recording Studio. Record at
   I:115-16. (All Record references are to the Official Transcript of the
   Pre-Election Investigatory Hearing, Volumes I-VI, referring to the
   transcript of the hearing conducted on October 23, 1997 and November 4,
   10, 12, 17, and 18, 1997, respectively.) The Recording Studio operates
   two television studios and two radio stations and also offers
   post-production editing services. Id. The Director of the Recording
   Studio, now termed the Branch Manager, is responsible for the overall
   management of the Studio. Id. at I:112-13, 125-26. A number of
   employees including the Production Manager, Administrative Manager, and
   the LAN Administrator report directly to him. Id. at I:119. The Studio
   is divided into five different workgroups: production, taperoom,
   electronic newsgathering ("ENG" or "field operations"), radio, and
   video engineering. Each workgroup is directed by one or more levels of
   supervisor who oversee the work of a variety of Production Technicians,
   who are classified as level I, II or III, depending on their technical
   proficiency with the requisite equipment and their performance
   evaluations. Record at I:142-43. Production, the largest of the
   workgroups, is headed by the Production Supervisor, to whom a Graphic
   Artist, a Production Technician, a Staff Assistant, three Technical
   Directors, and three Production Directors report directly. This
   workgroup is divided into two shifts, which rotate between providing
   live television coverage and studio videotape work. Record at I:120-21;
   Employing Office Exhibit No. 5. Each shift contains one or two
   Technical Directors, who handle personnel and technical aspects of the
   work, one or two Production Directors, who handle the artistic
   direction, and a number of Production Technicians, who, along with the
   Technical Directors, operate the equipment needed for the production.
   Record at V:1084-91. The taperoom consists of the Taperoom Supervisor
   and up to five other employees, including Tape Production Technicians
   and a Staff Assistant. The taperoom provides post-production services
   such as videotape editing, dubbing, and graphics, and also makes master
   recordings of all Senate proceedings. The Taperoom Supervisor reports
   to the Production Manager. Record at I:133-34; IV:1025-26. The field
   operations unit consists of a Manager, a Supervisor and up to four
   permanent employees, who are responsible for covering all field events,
   such as committee hearings and press briefings by individual Senators.
   Other regular production employees are assigned temporarily to this
   unit as needed by these events. Record at I:276. The radio group has
   two employees, the Radio Supervisor and a Radio Production Technician,
   who together run the two Senate Radio Studios. Record at V:1251-52. The
   final unit in the Recording Studio is video engineering. At the time at
   which the original representation petition was filed, video engineering
   was part of the Recording Studio. In October 1997, the unit was moved
   to the Network Engineering Branch of Technical Operations as part of
   the SAA's reorganization. However, it was returned to the Recording
   Studio in February 1998, during the pendency of these proceedings. See
   Employing Office's Withdrawal of Objection (Feb. 4, 1998). The unit,
   directed by an Engineering Manager, consists of an Engineering
   Supervisor and four video Engineering Technicians, who provide video
   support for the Recording Studio, as well as assisting other parts of
   the U.S. Senate with their needs for video equipment and related
   engineering expertise. Record at IV: 958-68. III. Petitioner seeks to
   represent all but the supervisory and administrative employees of the 2
   Recording Studio. The petition, as amended,1 describes the appropriate
   unit as consisting of employees in the following positions: Production
   Technician I, Production Technician II and Production Technician III
   (production, tape, radio and ENG/field operations); Production
   Director; Production Staff Assistant (production, tape); Graphics
   Artist; Taperoom Supervisor; Radio Supervisor; ENG/field operations
   Supervisor; and Engineering Supervisor; Engineering Technician II, and
   Engineering Technician III. See Petitioner's Exhibit No. 1;
   Petitioner's Motion to Amend Unit Description (Feb. 25, 1998). The
   petition proposes to exclude from the proposed unit nonsupervisory
   employees in the following positions: "Administrative Manager; LAN
   Administrator; Office Manager; Assistant LAN Manager [Administrator];
   and Staff Assistant (administrative)." Petitioner's Exhibit No. 1. The
   petition, as amended in the Hearing, recognizes that, under the
   statute, the Engineering Manager position "is properly excluded as
   supervisory," id., while Petitioner's February 25, 1998 motion
   withdraws from the unit the position of Technical Director which the
   Employing Office argued was also statutorily excluded as supervisory.
   The positions of "Manager, Production Manager, and Production
   Supervisor," which the Employing Office contends are supervisory,
   Employing Office Brief at 2, were omitted from the unit description
   without discussion and are therefore not included in the proposed unit.
   The Employing Office originally opposed the inclusion of the positions
   of Engineering Technician II and III in the proposed unit on the
   grounds that, since the reorganization of the SAA, the technicians were
   no longer organizationally part of the Recording Studio, and thus did
   not share a community of interest with the rest of the employees in the
   proposed unit. Employing Office Brief at 36-42. However, on February 4,
   1998, the Employing Office withdrew its objection to the inclusion of
   the Engineering Technician II and III positions when "the employees in
   the positions of Engineering Supervisor, Engineering Technician II and
   Engineering III [were] reassigned from the Network Engineering Branch
   of the Technical Operations Department of the SAA to the Recording
   Studio." Employing Office Withdrawal of Objection at 2. Therefore, the
   parties no longer disagree about the appropriateness of the unit
   proposed by the petition. The Board concludes that such a functional
   unit consisting of the above-named positions is appropriate within the
   meaning of section 7112(a)(1) of title 5, as applied by section
   220(c)(1) of the CAA. See Office of Communications Media, Office of the
   Chief Administrative Officer, Employing Office and Nat'l Association of
   Broadcast Employees and Technicians, Communications Workers of America,
   AFL-CIO, Petitioner, No. 96-LM-2 at 2-3 (March 17, 1997) (citations
   omitted). However, the Employing Office opposes the inclusion of the
   following positions: Taperoom Supervisor, Field Operations Supervisor,
   Radio Supervisor, and Engineering Supervisor on the grounds that they
   are supervisory positions within the meaning of section 1 Petitioner
   has twice sought by motion to amend the unit description portion of the
   Petition. The first motion made during the Hearing in the form of
   Petitioner's Exhibit No. 1 was granted by the Hearing Officer. Record
   at I:12-17. The second motion, addressed to the Board on February 25,
   1998, and opposed by the Employing Office by motion on March 4, 1998,
   is hereby granted. 3 7103(a)(10) of title 5, as applied by section
   225(f)(1) of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. ยง 1361(f)(1). See Employing Office Brief
   at 2. For the reasons set forth below, the Board has determined that
   the individuals in these positions are statutory supervisors and
   therefore must be excluded from the unit. IV. Section 7112(b)(1) of
   title 5, as applied by the CAA, provides that a bargaining unit is not
   appropriate if it includes a supervisor. Section 7103(a)(10) defines a
   "supervisor" as: an individual employed by an agency having authority
   in the interest of the agency to hire, direct, assign, promote, reward,
   transfer, furlough, layoff, recall, suspend, discipline, or remove
   employees, to adjust their grievances, or to effectively recommend such
   action, if the exercise of the authority is not merely routine or
   clerical in nature but requires the consistent exercise of independent
   judgment . . . . An employee need only exercise or effectively
   recommend any one of the supervisory criteria set forth in the statute
   to be found a supervisor, as long as the employee consistently uses the
   requisite independent judgment in connection with the exercise or
   effective recommendation of that criterion. See, e.g., U.S. Dep't of
   the Navy, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, N.H., 38 F.L.R.A. 764,
   766, 768-69 (1990); U.S. Dep't of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Admin.
   Medical Ctr., Allen Park, MI, 35 F.L.R.A. 1206, 1211 (1990); Dep't of
   the Navy, Naval Undersea Warfare Eng'g Station, Keyport, WA , 7
   F.L.R.A. 526, 527 & n.1 (1981). This is so, moreover, even if another
   individual also exercises or makes recommendations concerning the same
   statutory criterion. See, e.g., Veterans Admin. Medical Ctr., 35
   F.L.R.A. at 1211. Accordingly, "where an individual exercises
   independent judgment in evaluating employee performance, and where that
   evaluation is relied on by upper-level management in taking an action
   listed among the indicia of supervisory authority specified in section
   7103(a)(10), thereby constituting the effective recommendation of that
   action, a sufficient basis exists to conclude that the individual
   constitutes a supervisor within the meaning of section 7103(a)(10) of
   the Statute." U.S. Dep't of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs,
   Navajo Area Office, Gallup , NM, 45 F.L.R.A. 646, 650 (1992). The
   evaluation need not be the sole factor in upper-level management's
   decision, so long as it is a significant factor. Id. at 656-57. The
   Employing Office contends, on a number of grounds, that the positions
   of Taperoom Supervisor, Field Operations Supervisor, Radio Supervisor,
   and Engineering Supervisor are supervisory within the meaning of the
   statute. See, e.g., Employing Office Brief at 10-14 (arguing that
   Taperoom Supervisor uses independent judgment to assign and direct
   work; arrange employee schedules and leave; perform performance
   evaluations; resolve grievances and recommend disciplinary measures;
   make hiring and transfer recommendations; as well as pointing out that
   he attends meetings and training for supervisory personnel). The Board
   addresses only the claim that these positions are supervisory because
   the individuals at issue perform 4 performance evaluations that require
   the consistent exercise of independent judgment and that are relied on
   by upper-level management in awarding or withholding pay increases,
   including within grade and other promotions, as well as in making
   decisions respecting probationary status. The Taperoom Supervisor,
   Field Production Supervisor, Radio Supervisor, and Engineering
   Supervisor play a central role in the performance evaluation process
   used by the Recording Studio. The Recording Studio evaluates all
   probationary employees on a three or six month basis and all
   nonprobationary employees annually on the anniversary date of their
   hiring, using forms developed by the SAA. The current form evaluates
   nonsupervisory employees on 11 factors: (1) quality of work; (2)
   quantity of work (3) attendance and punctuality (4) initiative and
   resourcefulness; (5) job knowledge; (6) judgment and analytical
   ability; (7) work organization; (8) dependability/reliability; (9)
   interpersonal relations and cooperation (10) communication; and (11)
   compliance with organizational policies and procedures. See Employing
   Office Exhibit No. 7. Employees are awarded one of the following three
   "grades" on each factor: "exceeds standards," "meets standards," "needs
   improvement." Id. In addition, in the current form there is a section
   provided for narrative comments by the "Immediate Supervisor," as well
   as a separate section for comments by "Mid-level Supervisors,
   Director," id., while in the previous form there was space for
   narrative comments next to each factor, see Employing Office Exhibit
   No. 6. It is undisputed that, apart from time and attendance, see
   Record at I:215, the current incumbents of the positions of Taperoom
   Supervisor, Field Production Supervisor, Radio Supervisor, and
   Engineering Supervisor (hereinafter collectively "Immediate
   Supervisors") evaluate the performance of the nonsupervisory employees
   in their respective units on the above factors, complete the section
   for narrative comments by the "Immediate Supervisor," Employing Office
   Exhibit No. 7, sign the evaluation in the space for the "Supervisor's
   Signature," id., and generally go over the completed evaluation in
   person with the employees in their units, see, e.g., Record at I:134-38
   ; see also Office of Compliance Exhibit No. 3. The completed evaluation
   form becomes part of the individual's personnel file. Record at
   I:137-38. Completing these evaluations requires that the Immediate
   Supervisors consistently make independent judgments that are not
   routine or clerical in nature. See U.S. Dep't of the Interior, Bureau
   of Indian Affairs, 45 F.L.R.A. at 657 (individual's evaluations and
   recommendations constituted an exercise of independent judgment where
   supervisor did not tell him how to evaluate the employees, but relied
   on his independently formed assessment of their performance); U.S.
   Dep't of the Navy, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard , 38 F.L.R.A. at 766-67
   (affirming Regional Director's finding of consistent exercise of
   independent judgment in the performance appraisal process and in
   effectively recommending for awards "because of the limited direction
   and guidance from higher level management"); cf. U.S. Dep't of the
   Army, Army Aviation Systems Command, 36 F.L.R.A. 587 (1990) (collecting
   cases on exercise of independent judgment in making and evaluating
   assignments and finding 5 out of 7 engineers supervisors based on their
   independence in assessing and assigning work). Testimony established
   that there are no set standards or guidance from upper level management
   for determining whether an employee "meets," "exceeds," or "needs
   improvement" in any area; the Immediate Supervisors must use 5 their
   own judgment to make that determination for each factor. See, e.g.,
   Record at II:338; IV:1028. Moreover, in their narrative comments, the
   Immediate Supervisors independently assess areas such as the employee's
   overall proficiency, progress in his or her craft, interpersonal
   skills, contribution to the work of the unit, and fitness for promotion
   and or pay increases. See, e.g., Employing Office Exhibit Nos.16, 19,
   48. These comments are also used by the Director in determining the
   overall evaluation of an employee as "exceeds" "meets" or "needs
   improvement" and in deciding whether to give a merit salary increase or
   within-grade promotion. Record at I:146. Because upper-level management
   relies on the Immediate Supervisors' evaluations in making pay,
   promotion, and retention decisions and almost always accepts their
   evaluations without change, the Immediate Supervisors' role in the
   evaluation process constitutes the effective recommendation of actions
   specified in section 7103(a)(10) as indicia of supervisory authority.
   See U.S. Dep't of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs , 45 F.L.R.A.
   at 657; see also USA DARCOM Materiel Readiness Support Activity (MRSA),
   Lexington, KY, 8 F.L.R.A. 46, 50 (1982). Record evidence established
   that evaluations are determinative in the decision whether to award a
   pay increase: receiving an overall rating of "meets" is the
   prerequisite for consideration for any type of pay increase and a very
   high rating without more constitutes an effective recommendation for a
   pay increase to the extent such increases are authorized by the budget
   process. See, e.g., Record at II:715, 855, 993-95; II:358-59; IV:1019;
   see also Office of Compliance Exhibit No. 3. These evaluations are also
   used for within-grade promotions, as well as other promotions. See,
   e.g., Record at I:141-42, 256; II:357-58; III:872-74. The Immediate
   Supervisors' evaluation of probationary employees is given great weight
   in determining whether those employees will be taken off probationary
   status, kept on probationary status, or terminated. See, e.g., Record
   at I:144-46; II:345. A very poor evaluation can result in an employee
   being placed on probationary status. Record at I:145-66.
   Notwithstanding Petitioner's vigorous objection to the contrary, see
   Petitioner Brief at 11-16, the Board concludes that the Hearing Officer
   provided Petitioner with a fair opportunity to examine the evaluations
   relied on by the Employing Office to demonstrate that the Immediate
   Supervisors' evaluations are rarely altered by senior supervisors, see
   Record at VI:134-36. Petitioner's examination yielded only one
   additional example of an evaluation altered by upper level management
   out of the many evaluations on the record. See Order Directing
   Inclusion of Proposed Stipulation of Facts in Record, Ruling on
   Exhibits and Closing the Record (November 24, 1997). This is
   insufficient to contradict the Employing Office's testimony that these
   evaluations are generally accepted and relied upon by senior
   supervisors without change. See, e.g., Record at I:146;
   II:358-60;VI:98, 113. The Board concludes, based on the above Record
   evidence, that the Taperoom Supervisor, Field Operations Supervisor,
   Radio Supervisor, and Engineering Supervisor perform evaluations that
   require the consistent exercise of independent judgment and that are
   relied on by upper level supervisors in determining whether or not to
   award pay increases, making within- grade promotions, and making
   determinations respecting probationary status. These individuals are
   therefore supervisory personnel within the meaning of section
   7103(a)(10) of title 5, as 6 applied by the CAA and must therefore be
   excluded from the unit. DIRECTION OF ELECTION An election by secret
   ballot shall be conducted among employees in the following unit, as
   early as possible, but not later than 40 days from the date of this
   decision: All employees of the U.S. Senate Recording Studio of the
   Office of the U.S. Senate Sergeant at Arms, including employees of the
   production, tape, radio, field/ENG, and engineering groups, but
   excluding employees in the positions of Technical Director; Taperoom
   Supervisor; Radio Supervisor; Field/ENG Supervisor; Engineering
   Supervisor; Engineering Manager; Administrative Manager; Director; LAN
   Administrator; Office Administrator; Assistant LAN Administrator; Staff
   Assistant (administrative); and those employees excluded by statute.
   The Executive Director of the Office (or her designee) shall supervise
   and conduct the election, subject to the Office's rules and
   regulations. Eligible to vote are those in the unit who were employed
   during the payroll period immediately preceding the date below,
   including employees who did not work during that period because they
   were out ill, or on vacation, or on furlough, including those in
   military service who appear in person at the polls. Ineligible to vote
   are employees who have quit or were discharged for cause since the
   designated payroll period and who have not been rehired or reinstated
   before the election date. Those eligible to vote within the appropriate
   unit shall vote whether or not they wish to be represented for the
   purpose of exclusive recognition by the National Association of
   Broadcast Employees and Technicians, Communications Workers of America,
   AFL-CIO, or no labor organization. Issued, Washington, D.C., March 5,
   1998 7
