http://www.osha-slc.gov/dts/tib/tib_data/tib20011217.pdf

   Technical Information Bulletin U.S. Department of Labor Occupational
   Safety and Health Administration Cardiac Arrest and Automated External
   Defibrillators (AEDs) TIB 01-12-17 Purpose 1. To inform employers about
   the use of automated external defibrillators (AEDs), a life-saving
   technol- ogy, in the treatment of cardiac arrest at work. 2. To provide
   an information resource to aid in decision-making about these devices
   at individual worksites. Background Sixty-one million Americans have
   cardiovascular disease, resulting in approximately 1 million deaths per
   year. One-third of these deaths (300,000-400,000) are due to cardiac
   arrest, the sudden and unex- pected loss of heart function. Survival
   rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest are only 1 to 5 percent. Most
   often cardiac arrest is due to chaotic beating of the heart
   (ventricular fibrillation), which can be restored to a normal rhythm if
   treated early with electric shock (defibrillation). Treatment of
   witnessed ventricular fibrillation with immediate defibrillation can
   result in greater than 90 percent survival. With each minute of delay
   in defibrillation, nearly 10 percent fewer survive, so that at 10
   minutes, survival is dismal. In June 1999, Chicago's O'Hare and Midway
   Airports installed automated external defibrillators (AEDs) to respond
   in 1 minute to cardiac arrest. In the first 10 months, 14 cardiac
   arrests occurred, and 9 of the 14 victims (64 percent) survived.
   Description of Hazard In 1999 and 2000, 815 out of 6,339 (13 percent)
   workplace fatalities reported to OSHA were due to sudden cardiac
   arrest. Work factors that may aggravate or contribute to cardiovascular
   disease are carbon monoxide, carbon disulfide, halogenated
   hydrocarbons, smoking, extreme heat or cold, stress, and shift work.
   Electrical hazards may produce cardiac arrest (ventricular
   fibrillation). Exposure to noise, lead, or arsenic may produce high
   blood pressure, increasing the risk for heart disease. AED Use Use of
   automated external defibrillators began in the 1970s, enhancing the
   ability of emergency medical service personnel to treat cardiac arrest.
   Defibrillation is just one part of the treatment which also The
   Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA's) Directorate of
   Technical Support issues Technical Information Bulletins (TIBs) to
   provide information about occupational hazards and/or to provide
   information about noteworthy, innovative, or specialized procedures,
   practices, and research that relate to occupational safety and health.
   These bulletins are not standards or regulations and they create no
   independent legal obligations. They are advisory in nature,
   informational in content, and are intended to assist employers in
   providing a safe and healthful workplace. Further information about
   this bulletin may be obtained by contacting OSHA's Directorate of
   Technical Support at 202-693-2093. includes calling for emergency
   medical service assistance, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and for the
   administration of medications and other life support measures. Early
   defibrillation, however, is the most critical of all the steps because
   it is definitive therapy for ventricular fibrillation. AEDs cost
   between $3,000 and $4,500 plus the expense of maintenance and
   instruction. The past decade has seen advances in miniaturization and
   improvement in their reliability and safety. The AED is lightweight,
   runs on rechargeable batteries, analyzes the heart rhythm, and
   automatically indicates when to shock. These developments have markedly
   reduced response time and minimized the need for training. In a study
   of mock cardiac arrest, the mean time to defibrillation was 67 seconds
   for trained emergency service technicians while only 90 seconds for
   untrained sixth-grade students, indicating that even the untrained can
   use these devices successfully. Many communities have trained first
   responders (police and firefighters) to use AEDs. Recognizing the need
   for faster response, the American Heart Association (AHA) has proposed
   public access defibrilla- tion (PAD), a program that places AEDs close
   to the victim (in public places) and uses trained lay person- nel for
   defibrillation. Specifically, the program should be designed to reduce
   the time to defibrillation to no more than 3-5 minutes. Using this
   program, a study of cardiac arrest in casinos found that defibrillation
   by a trained security officer within the first 3 minutes produced a 74
   percent survival rate whereas defibrilla- tion more than 3 minutes
   after collapse had 49 percent survival rate. Another study assessing
   survival for airline passengers with cardiac arrest found that 92%
   responded to defibrillation, while 40% survived to go home. In both
   instances, cardiac arrest victims could be readily observed and
   treatment initiated almost immediately. Research on AEDs is ongoing. To
   determine if trained lay persons are as effective as trained emer-
   gency medical service personnel, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
   Institute of the National Institutes of Health initiated a study in
   August 2000 that will be completed in 2003. The study will also look at
   whether it is realistic and cost-effective to train a large number of
   people to use these devices. The Department of Health and Human
   Services and the General Service Administration published Guidelines
   for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities
   following passage of Public Law 106-505 November 13, 2000, the Public
   Health Improvement Act . The Act authorized placement of AEDs in
   federal buildings and provided immunity from civil liability for anyone
   using an AED in a federal building. Several states have adopted
   legislation that allows a layperson to use an AED and provides legal
   immunity for proper use. The American College of Occupational and
   Environmental Medicine, the professional association representing
   occupational physicians, has issued guidelines for establishing and
   managing a workplace AED program. Conclusions The sooner defibrillation
   is started, the more likely the victim will survive. The optimum time
   for defibrillation is 3 to 5 minutes after the onset of the cardiac
   arrest. The AED is a safe, effective, easily learned method of treating
   victims of cardiac arrest. Recommendations About 400 workplace deaths
   from cardiac arrest are reported to OSHA annually. Assuming an average
   time to defibrillation of 5 minutes would produce a 40 percent survival
   rate, 160 lives per year could be saved. Employers should consider use
   of AEDs at their worksites to reduce the time to defibrilla- tion with
   the goal of improving survival. Consult the American Heart Association
   (http://www.cpr- ecc.org/Cpr_aed/cpr_aed_menu.htm) for further
   information on public access defibrillation programs, the American
   College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine
   (http://www.acoem.com/paprguid/guides/ aed.htm) for guidelines on
   workplace programs, and OSHA (http://www.osha.gov) for additional docu-
   ments relating to AEDs. References American College of Occupational and
   Environmental Medicine. ACOEM Guideline Automated External
   Defibrillation in the Occupational Setting.
   http://www.acoem.com/paprguid/guides/aed.htm American Heart
   Association. 2001 Heart and Stroke Statistical Update. Dallas, Texas:
   American Heart Association, 2000. American Heart Association CPR and
   AEDs. http://www.cpr-ecc.org/Cpr_aed/cpr_aed_menu.htm Centers for
   Disease Control. NIOSH. National Institute for Occupational Safety and
   Health. Occupational Heart Disease.
   http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/heartdis.html Department of Health and Human
   Services and General Services Administration. Guidelines for Public
   Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities May 23, 2001.
   http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=2001_register
   &docid=01-12939-filed Fine L. "Chemical and physical factors." State of
   the Art Reviews: Occupational Medicine 15(1):18-20, 2000. Groeneveld
   P.W., Kwong J.L., Yeuyi L. "Cost-effectiveness of automated external
   defibrillators on airlines." JAMA. 286:1482-1489, 2001. Gundry J.W.,
   Comess K.A., et al. "Comparison of naïve sixth-grade children with
   trained professionals in the use of an automated external
   defibrillator." Circulation. 100:1703-7,1999. Marenco J.P., Wang P.J.,
   et al. "Improving survival from sudden cardiac arrest  the role of the
   automated external defibrillator." JAMA. 285:1193-1200, 2001. NIH News
   Release. National Institutes of Health. National Heart, Lung, and Blood
   Institute. "Study Launched to Test Public Access Defibrillation."
   August 22, 2000. http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/new/press/aug22-00.htm Page
   R.L., Joglar J.A., et al. Use of automated external defibrillators by a
   US airline. NEJM. 343:1210-6, 2000 Public Health Improvement Act.
   Public Law 106-505. November 13, 2000.
   http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/
   getdoc.cgi?dbname=106_cong_public_laws&docid=f:publ505.106 Rosenman
   K.D.: "Occupational Heart Disease (Chapter 49)" in W.N. Rom, ed:
   Environmental and Occupational Medicine, Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven
   Publishers, 1998. Pp. 733-741. Takata T.S., Page R.L., Joglar J.A.
   "Automated external defibrillators: technical considerations and
   clinical promise." Ann Int Med.135:990-998, 2001 Valenzuela T.D., Roe
   D.J., et al. "Outcomes of rapid defibrillation by security officers
   after cardiac arrest in casinos." NEJM. 343:1206-9, 2000 Zipes D.P,
   Wellens H.J.J. "Sudden cardiac death." Circulation. 98:2334-2351, 1998
