http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/me031501.pdf

   MINUTE ENTRY FALLON, J. March 15, 2001 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
   EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA : MDL NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID :
   PRODUCTS LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION "L" :: JUDGE FALLON .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. : JUDGE AFRICK THIS DOCUMENT RELATES TO ALL CASES: A pretrial
   status conference was held March 15, 2001 at 9:00 a.m. in the courtroom
   of Judge Eldon E. Fallon. In attendance for Plaintiffs were Richard J.
   Arsenault, Robert Blanchard, Dawn Barrios, Daniel E. Becnel, Leonard
   Davis, James Dugan, Walter Dumas, Russ M. Herman, Barry Hill, Larry
   Morris, Stephen Murray, Gordon Rudd and Chris Seeger. In attendance for
   Defendants were Thomas F. Campion, James B. Irwin, Charles F. Preuss,
   and Quentin F. Urquhart, Jr. At the conference, counsel reported to the
   Court on the topics set forth in Joint Report No. 5 of Plaintiffs' and
   Defendants' Liaison Counsel. 1. Virtual Document Depository Counsel
   reported that no further progress has been made in creating a virtual
   document depository. Both Plaintiffs and Defendants remain concerned
   about security issues and plan to continue their security evaluation.
   2. Master Complaint/Answer Plaintiffs explained that they plan to
   prepare a brief to submit to the Court after review by Defendants on
   the issue of drafting a mater complaint/answer. Plaintiffs expressed
   concern about the drafting of a master complaint/answer. 3. Update to
   Rolling Document Production Counsel reported that approximately
   ninety-two thousand (92,000) pages of documents were produced on March
   1, 2001 from the corporate sector for marketing and sales of the
   Defendants and that an additional and larger production will be made
   regarding marketing and sales documents on or before March 15, 2001.
   Defendants indicated that the April production will consist primarily
   of documents from the Customer Action Center. In addition, counsel
   stated that document production from Belgium will proceed within the
   next sixty (60) days. Finally, counsel identified June 30, 2001 as the
   date by which all domestic document production should be completed. 4.
   Electronic Service/Verilaw Counsel reported that the Verilaw electronic
   service site for this litigation was activated on March 9, 2001 and is
   now fully operational. User identifications and passwords have been
   furnished by Verilaw to attorneys who are properly registered in
   accordance with Pretrial Order No. 4 and its Supplements. 5. State
   Liaison Counsel Counsel reported that representatives from the New
   Jersey state cases, the Texas state cases and this MDL litigation met
   in Dallas, Texas on February 28, 2001, in connection with electronic
   document production issues. 2 6. Electronic Document Preservation and
   Production Counsel reported that they have reached an agreement in
   principle regarding the preservation of domestic electronic documents.
   Counsel are continuing their negotiations and will report to the Court
   on their progress at the next pretrial status conference. With regard
   to the preservation of international electronic data, Defendants report
   that logistical and technical problems remain unresolved. Defendants
   indicated that they have notified management personnel in appropriate
   international locations. The Court ORDERED Defendants to produce the
   names and addresses of those individuals responsible for managing,
   maintaining, and preserving documents and data in each relevant
   geographic area abroad. With respect to production of electronic data,
   the parties indicated that they are discussing the development of
   language for a protocol that would provide for the handling of such
   materials. 7. 30(b)(6) Deposition Regarding Corporate Organization
   Counsel indicated that they conducted corporate depositions on March
   12, 2001. 8. Plaintiff Profile Forms and Authorizations Plaintiffs'
   Liaison Counsel reported that he was still receiving plaintiff profile
   forms and authorizations from plaintiffs after having sent reminder
   letters. The Court reiterated the importance of Plaintiffs providing
   this information to Defendants. Defendants' Liaison Counsel expressed
   concern over the use of medical authorizations, and counsel agreed to
   meet to resolve this issue. 8. Scheduling of April Pretrial Status
   Conference The next pretrial status conference will be held on
   Thursday, April 19, 2001 at 9:00 a.m. 3
