http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2002_0128LCV.htm

   [bar1.jpg]

   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   [bar1.jpg]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) / Tracey Shifflett
   (Tracey.Shifflett@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019


      LCV Ignores True Environmental Record in Its Political Attack on
                             President, Congress

       Scores of Green Bills Ignored by Extremist Environmental Group


   Washington, D.C. – House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen today
   chided the League of Conservation Voters for deliberately
   misrepresenting President Bush’s and the U.S. House of Representatives’
   environmental record.

   Chairman Hansen’s statement:

   “Every year, the League of Conservation Voters twists Congress’
   environmental record to drive its own extreme agenda. This year is no
   exception. The LCV is taking potshots at President Bush and Congress
   for everything from cabinet appointments it doesn’t agree with to green
   bills that the group decided weren’t quite green enough.

   “Meanwhile, the LCV ignored dozens of green bills passed by the House
   and signed by President Bush. These bills make a real difference in
   protecting our clean air and water, our wild places and our wildlife,
   but the LCV isn’t interested because protecting the environment isn’t
   its true agenda.

   “Let me list a few:

   “Congress created Detroit River Wildlife Refuge, taking 5,000-acres of
   an abandoned industrial site and returning it to the wetlands it once
   was. We created the Rocky Flats Wildlife Refuge and increased funding
   for the additional clean-up of this former Superfund site. Congress has
   created five wildlife refuges in the last two years. The LCV has
   ignored every one of them.

   “Congress extended Wild and Scenic River status to the Eight Mile River
   in Connecticut, protecting this beautiful stretch of river from
   pollution or development. President Bush has signed all three of these
   into law. The LCV ignored all three, too.

    “Congress extended funding for the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation
   until 2005. This nonprofit organization oversees and administrators
   donations for fish, wildlife and plant conservation. In nearly 20
   years, the Foundation has funded over 5,000 projects which have
   restored nearly 20 million acres of habitat, and over

   11,000 miles of streams and waterways have been enhanced.  It’s made a
   dramatic difference since it was created in 1984 – but that difference
   was ignored by the LCV. The President will sign this.

   “Congress appropriated tens of millions of dollars for the ongoing
   protection of the African elephant, Asian elephant, Rhinoceros and
   Tigers. President Bush promptly signed this. The LCV ignored it.

   “Congress also extended historic funding for the National Wildfire
   Management Program, preventing the loss last summer of thousands of
   acres of forest and who knows how many lives. This, too, was signed
   into law and completely ignored by the LCV.

   “Congress substantial protection for a potential source of clean
   drinking water for the City of Portland” This adds 2,890 acres of
   federal lands to the Bull Run Watershed Management in Oregon, and
   amended the existing law to prohibit timber harvesting within the
   area.  The LCV ignored it as well.”

   These are only a few of last year’s accomplishments. In addition to
   these, there are more than 50 other green bills over at the Senate
   waiting for the Senate’s Democratic leadership to stop politicking and
   start legislating.

   Congress and President Bush have made a positive difference for our
   environment and our wildlife on the ground – where it really counts.
   But once again, the LCV ignored these tangible improvements. Instead,
   we’re getting the same old tired posturing from this group that we get
   every year. I’m still waiting for their posturing to do something
   useful like preserve a species or save a green corner of our planet.



               ###
