http://deepimpact.jpl.nasa.gov/smallbodies.html

   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1
   DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet home search sitemap frequently
   asked questions contact us DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 Small Bodies Missions

   contents:
   MISSION: See how the mission works and meet the team
   SCIENCE: All about comets, mission science objectives and more
   TECHNOLOGY: About the spacecraft, systems and launch vehicle
   GALLERY: Images, videos and more
   EDUCATION: Standards based activities and opportunities
   DISCOVERY ZONE: Fun for you and your community
   PRESS: News and resources
   [navbar-l1-fade.jpg]

   Deep Impact joins a suite of missions that will travel to other comets
   and asteroids and learn more about our solar system.

   Comet Missions

   STARDUST
   Launch Date: February 7, 1999
   Destination: Comet Wild 2
   Encounter: January 2004
   Sample Return: 2006
   Objective: Collect comet dust and interstellar dust particles for
   return to earth
   Description: This will be the first mission to collect samples from a
   comet and return them to earth. Stardust will make three loops around
   the sun before its closest approach to the comet. Samples will be
   captured in a special material called aerogel and the collector will
   retract into a sample return capsule. The capsule will be returned to
   earth during a soft landing at the U.S. Air Force's Utah Test and
   Training Range.
   Web site: http://stardust.jpl.nasa.gov

   CONTOUR
   Launch Date: July 2002
   Destination: Comet Encke, Comet Schwassmann-Wachmann 3
   Encounter: November 2003, June 2006
   Objective: Encounter and study at least two comets by taking
   high-resolution pictures
   Description: The Comet Nucleus Tour (CONTOUR) will encounter at least
   two comets during their visit to the inner solar system. The spacecraft
   will encounter each comet during its peak of activity close to the sun
   and take high-resolution pictures. They will then perform analyses of
   their composition. They will also determine the comet's precise orbit.
   Timing for the mission will also allow for ground-based observations.
   There may be an extended mission to fly by Comet d'Arrest in 2008.
   Web site: http://www.contour2002.org

   ROSETTA
   Launch Date: January 2003
   Destination: Comet Wirtanen
   Encounter: November 2011
   Objective: Travel to and land upon the surface of the comet to study
   its nucleus
   Description: The Rosetta spacecraft will perform remote study of the
   nucleus and study its surface using a landed instrument package. Prior
   to arrival at Comet Wirtanen, the Rosetta spacecraft will fly by
   asteroid 4979 Otawara in July 2006 and asteroid 140 Siwa in July 2008.
   This mission is designed and managed by the European Space Agency
   (ESA).
   Web site: http://sci.esa.int/rosetta

   Launch Date: January 2004
   Destination: Comet Tempel 1
   Encounter: July 4, 2005
   Objective: Impact the surface of a comet with a 350 kg impactor
   creating a crater that exposes fresh material from the interior, study
   crater formation and composition of the interior.
   Description: Deep Impact will be the first mission to look beneath the
   surface of a comet by making a crater that will expose fresh material
   from its interior and observing its formation and chemistry of
   materials beneath. The dual spacecraft mission will collect images and
   spectra of the impact and its aftermath from the impactor, the flyby
   spacecraft and from ground and space based observatories. The flyby
   spacecraft will have approximately 14 minutes to observe the crater
   before the comet passes over it. After turning, the spacecraft will
   observe the comet for another 24 hours as the spacecraft continues its
   solar-centered orbit.

   Asteroid Missions

   NEAR SHOEMAKER
   Launch Date: February 17, 1996
   Destination: Asteroid Eros
   Encounter: February 14, 2000
   Objective: Orbit asteroid Eros for a period of one year
   Description: The NEAR spacecraft entered the orbit around Eros in
   February of 2000 to determine its structure, geology, mass,
   composition, gravity and magnetic field. Having successfully completed
   its mission objectives, the project team took on an extended objective
   to land the spacecraft on the surface of Eros. The Near spacecraft
   touched down on February 12, 2001 transmitting 69 close-up images as it
   descended.
   Web site: http://near.jhuapl.edu

   DEEP SPACE 1
   Launch Date: October 24, 1998
   Destination: Comet Braille, Comet 19P/Borelly
   Encounter: July 1999, September 2001
   Objective: Test new technologies in space to fly by a comet
   Description: The thorough testing of new technologies meant flying them
   on missions with a strong resemblance to missions of the future. The
   DS1 mission has successfully tested 12 new technologies in space
   including:
     * An ion drive rocket engine
     * A new solar panel design that concentrates sunlight
     * An autonomous navigation system that guides the spacecraft using
       established positions of asteroids

   On its way to Comet Borelly, the DS1 spacecraft flew past asteroid
   (9969) Braille in July 1999.
   Web site: http://nmp.jpl.nasa.gov/ds1

   MUSES-C
   Launch Date: December 2002 or May 2003
   Destination: asteroid 1998 SF36
   Encounter: September 2005
   Sample Return: June 2007
   Objective: Collect up to three asteroid surface samples for return to
   Earth
   Description: The Muses-C will arrive at asteroid 1998 SF36 and collect
   up to three surface samples before returning them to earth. The
   Japanese Institute for Space and Astronautical Sciences (ISAS) is
   managing the mission with some technical assistance provided by NASA.
   Web site: http://www.muses-c.isas.ac.jp
   [bottom-bar.gif]
                        NASA Office of Space Science
   Web Curator: Maura Rountree-Brown
   Webmaster: David Martin
   Last Updated: 18-Jun-2001
   Questions? Contact Maura Rountree-Brown.
