http://nnlm.gov/news/

   NN/LM Health Information | Librarian & Health Educator Resources |
         Projects | About Us | Announcements | Search

   News to Muse: NICHSR: Bioterrorism--Community Preparedness, 2002

                                 Announcements

     * NLM - New and Noteworthy
     * NIH - News and Events

                               NN/LM Website News

   March 21, 2002
          Children's Environmental Health Information Resources - A Public
          Health Training Network Satellite Broadcast, Thursday, March 21,
          2002, 1:00-3:00 PM ET.

   October 9, 2001
          NN/LM's Outreach Evaluation Resource Center (OERC) website is
          online, integrating previously available evaluation resources
          with new information about OERC's new activities.

   May 1, 2001
          Regional Medical Library Contracts Awarded

   February 7, 2001
          New to health library management? Our Basic Library Management
          guide links to resources which will help you become a more
          effective manager.

   December 28, 2000
          Readers with an interest in outreach planning and evaluation may
          want to visit the NN/LM Evaluation Resources section, which
          includes a PDF version of Measuring the Difference: Guide to
          Planning and Evaluation Health Information Outreach by Catherine
          Burroughs and Fred Wood.

   December 8, 2000
          We have revised our Find a library that can help you with health
          information service. Searches for Loansome Doc and Reference
          Service providers are now much faster. The results pages have
          been redesigned to report Resource Libraries first (since these
          institutions usually have larger collections and are better
          equipped to provide services to unaffiliated patrons). The new
          Network Profile report (which replaces the old Interlibrary Loan
          Profile) provides richer information about each library's
          contact information. It also includes a summary of data
          regarding interlibrary loan operations.

   October 2, 2000
          Ejournals are changing the way libraries access and store
          information. A list of resources has been compiled to help
          librarians use ejournals more effectively.

   September 6, 2000
          The web-based Tutorial for DOCLINE on the Web by Susan Barnes
          (PNR) and Beth Carlin (MR) has been updated and expanded. This
          is intended for new DOCLINE users and for those who would like a
          review of the system.

   September 4, 2000
          FreeShare is a new cross-regional library group for DOCLINE
          libraries that would like to participate in free, reciprocal
          lending.

   September 1, 2000
          A web-based manual for librarians and others who are organizing
          consumer health collections, Consumer Health: An Online Manual
          has been compiled by Marsha Sullivan and Lorna Springston with
          contributions from NN/LM SCR's Consumer Health Advisory
          Committee.

   June 1, 2000
          We are pleased to announce the availability of a web-based
          tutorial for librarians and others who provide information on
          consumer health questions: HEALTHINFOQUEST.

                                 Opportunities

     * Funding Information
     * Current Positions in the GMR
     * Job Opportunities at SCR

                               Upcoming Exhibits

     * NLM Exhibit Schedule

                         Calendar of Events (by region)

   NOTE - The following calendars do not currently follow a standardarized
   format. They may include exhibits, classes, training, or meetings, or a
   combination of these events.

   Greater Midwest Region - GMR Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky,
   Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Wisconsin
   Midcontinental Region - MCR Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Utah,
   Wyoming
   Middle Atlantic Region - MAR Delaware, New Jersey, New York,
   Pennsylvania
   New England Region - NER Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New
   Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont
   Pacific Northwest Region - PNR Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon,
   Washington
   Pacific Southwest Region - PSR Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, and
   U.S. Territories in the Pacific Basin
   South Central Region - SCR Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma,
   Texas
   Southeastern Atlantic Region - SEA Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Maryland,
   Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, West
   Virginia, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin
   Islands
   National Training Center and Clearinghouse - NTCC All States

   NN/LM Home : Health Information |
   Librarian & Health Educator Resources | Projects | About Us |
   Announcements | Search
   Policy on Linking | Disclaimer | Freedom of Information Act | NLM |
   NIH | HHS
   NN/LM Web Team | Revised: January 29, 2002
   http://nnlm.gov/news/ Funded by  National Library of Medicine
