http://www.oha.doe.gov/cases/ee/vee0073.htm

                               Case No. VEE-0073

     May 31, 2000

     DECISION AND ORDER

     OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS

     Application for Exception

     Case Name: Midtown Development, L.L.C.

     Date of Filing:May 12, 2000

     Case Number: VEE-0073

     This Decision and Order considers an Application for Exception filed
     by Midtown Development, L.L.C. (Midtown), seeking exception relief
     from the provisions of 10 C.F.R. Part 430, Energy Conservation
     Program for Consumer Products: Test Procedures and Certification and
     Enforcement Requirements for Plumbing Products (Plumbing Products
     Standards). In its exception request, Midtown asserts that the firm
     would be severely impacted if required to adhere to the Plumbing
     Products Standards of Part 430, 10 C.F.R. § 430.32, with respect to
     seven toilets Midtown must replace in an historic building currently
     under renovation by the firm. If Midtown’s Application for Exception
     were granted, the firm would be permitted to purchase, by import,
     seven toilets not meeting the prescribed standards and certification
     requirements of Part 430. As set forth in this Decision and Order,
     we have concluded that Midtown’s Application for Exception should be
     granted.

I. Background

  A. Plumbing Product Standards

     The Plumbing Products Standards, 10 C.F.R. Part 430, were published
     as a final rule by Department of Energy (DOE) on March 18, 1998, 63
     Fed. Reg. 13308, as mandated by Congress in Part B of Title III of
     the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §§
     6291-6309 (EPCA). In the EPCA, Congress directed, inter alia, that
     DOE administer an energy and water conservation program for
     specified major household appliances and commercial equipment,
     including certain plumbing products. Pursuant to this authority, the
     Part 430 final rule establishes water conservation standards and
     test procedures for faucets, showerheads, water closets (toilets)
     and urinals, and further specifies certification requirements and
     enforcement measures to ensure compliance by manufacturers and
     vendors of these covered plumbing products.

     Pertinent to the present case, section 430.332 of the Plumbing
     Products Standards codifies a statutory standard for water closets
     (toilets) of a maximum allowable water use of 1.6 gallons per flush
     (gpf) for gravity tank-type toilets, flushometer tank toilets, and
     electromechanical hydraulic toilets, if manufactured after January
     1, 1994. 10 C.F.R. § 430.32(q). Certification and enforcement
     requirements are set forth in Part 430, Subpart F. Section 430.62
     prohibits sale or distribution in commerce of any basic model of a
     covered product absent a certification that such product has
     complied with the testing procedures of DOE, and meets the
     applicable energy conservation standard or water conservation
     standard prescribed in 10 C.F.R. Part 430, Subpart C. These
     requirements are extended by section 430.64 to “any person importing
     any covered product into the United States” and “[a]ny covered
     product offered for importation . . . .” 10 C.F.R. §§ 430.64(a) and
     (b).(1) Under section 430.61(b), any person who knowingly violates
     this prohibition may be subject to assessment of a civil penalty of
     no more than $110 for each violation.

     Persons subject to the various product standards of Part 430 may
     apply to the DOE Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) for exception
     relief. See Amana Appliances, 27 DOE ¶ 81,006 (1999). In this
     regard, section 504 of the Department of Energy Organization Act
     authorizes OHA to make adjustments of any rule or order issued under
     the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, consistent with the other
     purposes of the Act, if necessary to prevent special hardship,
     inequity, or unfair distribution of burdens. 42 U.S.C. § 7194(a).

  B. Application for Exception

     Midtown is a real estate management and leasing firm located in
     Waterloo, Iowa, and is the owner of Black’s Building, an historic
     eight-story building (formerly Black’s Department Store) constructed
     in 1909. The department store that originally occupied the building
     closed in 1981. Upon later acquiring the building, Midtown has made
     $2.5 million in renovations and improvements to convert the building
     into a mixed-used facility. Black’s Building currently houses a
     variety of businesses and professional offices including law firms,
     engineering companies, a dental office, government offices, a
     restaurant and a data service center.

     Midtown states in its Application for Exception that the firm has
     confronted a unique problem in its process of restoration involving
     seven toilets located on the sixth and seventh floors of the
     building. Midtown asserts that replacement toilets on these floors
     must be mounted in existing marble structures and all available 1.6
     gpf toilets, meeting the required Part 430 standards, have proven to
     be unworkable since the toilet seat would be 35 inches from the
     floor when mounted. According to Midtown, the only fixture that will
     work correctly and is suitable for installation is the Eljer
     111-0355 Top Spud wall mounted model which is a nonconforming 3.5
     gpf toilet. Midtown states that it has been able to locate seven of
     these Eljer toilets at a plumbing supply store located in Windsor,
     Ontario, Canada. In its Application for Exception, Midtown seeks
     approval to purchase these imported toilets for installation on the
     sixth and seventh floors of Black’s Building. Rest rooms are located
     on the other floors, but Midtown seeks no exception relief for those
     facilities.

II. Analysis

     We have carefully considered Midtown’s Application for Exception and
     concluded that the firm’s exception request should be approved. In
     response to our request for additional information, Midtown states
     in a supplemental submission filed on May 18, 2000, that
     installation of standard 1.6 gpf toilets in the seven locations
     concerned would entail rerouting the plumbing on the sixth and
     seventh floors of the building. According to Midtown’s engineer,
     such rerouting would require that the original marble paneling and
     wood flooring be torn away. Black’s Building has been designated a
     historical building, as duly registered by the Iowa State Historical
     Society. Thus, apart from the substantial cost, devastation of the
     marble walls and original flooring for purposes of installing the
     seven toilets would constitute an undue burden and injure the
     appearance of the historic building.(2) Under the unique
     circumstances of this case, we are persuaded that Midtown would
     suffer an unfair distribution of burdens if required to adhere to
     the Plumbing Products Standards with respect to the seven toilets
     concerned. 42 U.S.C. § 7194(a); 10 C.F.R. § 1003.25(b)(2).

     Midtown shall therefore be granted exception relief from the
     Plumbing Products Standards, allowing the firm to install seven
     nonconforming toilets on the sixth and seventh floors of Black’s
     Building. The exception relief is specifically limited to the seven
     Eljer 111-0355 Top Spud toilets Midtown has located at Veteran’s
     Plumbing, a plumbing supplier located in Windsor, Ontario. The
     exception relief approved in this Decision and Order shall authorize
     the import purchase by Midtown, and import sale by Veteran’s
     Plumbing, of these seven toilets for purpose of installation in
     Black’s Building.

     It Is Therefore Ordered That:

     (1) The Application filed by Midtown Development, L.L.C. (Midtown),
     on May 12, 2000, is hereby granted as set forth in Paragraph (2)
     below.

     (2) Notwithstanding the requirements of 10 C.F.R. Part 430, Midtown
     is hereby authorized to purchase by import seven Eljer 111-0355 Top
     Spud toilets for installation in Black’s Building, Waterloo, Iowa.
     Veteran’s Plumbing, a plumbing parts supplier, located at 276
     Wyandotte Street E, Windsor, Ontario Canada N9A 6L7, is
     correspondingly authorized to make the import sale of said toilets
     to Midtown.

     (3) Any person aggrieved by the approval of exception relief in this
     Decision and Order may file an appeal with the Office of Hearings
     and Appeals in accordance with 10 C.F.R. Part 1003, Subpart C.

     George B. Breznay

     Director

     Office of Hearings and Appeals

     Date: May 31, 2000

     (1)During the Part 430 proposed rulemaking, commenters expressed
     concern that nonconforming plumbing products might nonetheless enter
     the retail marketplace, particularly through import. The agency
     responded, however, that “DOE believes that its existing enforcement
     procedures -- which encourage industry policing, prescribe
     enforcement testing, and provide for civil penalties for all covered
     products (which include imports) that violate the Federal standards
     -- are adequate for deterring would-be violators.” Proposed
     Rulemaking, 62 Fed. Reg. 7834, 7841 (February 20, 1997).

     (2)Midtown states in its exception application that recognizing the
     impact on the historical building, the City of Waterloo building
     code authority has authorized Midtown to install the nonconforming
     Eljer toilets, subject to the approval by DOE of exception relief
     from the Part 430 standards.
