http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/Travel/IncidentMgmt/IncidentMgmt.htm


   Click here to return to the Operations main page Click here to return
   to the Operations main page

        Travel Management Transportation Operations Freight Management ITS
   image line


   Overview
   ITS Public Safety Program
   Conferences and Meeting
   Training
   Reports and Documents
   Incident Management Links


































   Incident Management
   IEEE Incident Management Standards Working Group (IMWG) Meeting
   October 23-24, 2001
   Chantilly, VA (suburban Washington, DC)

   The IEEE IMWG will meet on October 23-24 with the goal of bringing two
   new standards in the 1512 (Incident Management) family of standards to
   ballot readiness.

   Last year, the Incident Management Base Standard "IEEE Standard for
   Common Incident Management Message Sets for Use by Emergency Management
   Centers" (IEEE 1512-2000) was formally approved by IEEE. That standard
   contains 18 messages divided in 3 sets - Status Message Set, Incident
   Management Message Set, and Center Message Set. Since then work has
   proceeded on 4 new standards:
   1512.1 - Traffic Management message sets used in traffic incident
   management.
   1512.2 - Public Safety message sets used in traffic incident
   management.
   1512.3 - Hazardous Materials message sets used in traffic incident
   management.
   1512.a - Emergency Management Data Dictionary for data elements in all
   volumes of 1512.

   The Traffic Management (1512.1) and Hazardous Materials (1512.3) are
   nearing completion and are expected to be balloted this year. Working
   is continuing on the Public Safety (1512.2) and Emergency Management
   Data Dictionary with completion expected in 2002. The Incident
   Management Working Group is made up of transportation and public safety
   professionals from law enforcement, fire and rescue, hazardous
   materials and emergency medical disciplines.

   (See The IEEE Incident Management Working Group site information and
   the meeting agenda. Click on Meetings/Agendas on the left side of the
   IMWG home page).

   NFSIMC to Produce Model Procedures Guide for Traffic Incidents
   The US Department of Transportation has contracted with The National
   Fire Service Incident Management System Consortium to produce a Model
   Procedures Guide for Highway Incidents. This will be the seventh in the
   series of Model Procedures Guides produced by the Consortium and will
   the first to specifically address incident management procedures
   related to traffic incidents. The six previous guides have been
   primarily developed for fire and rescue issues. The panel that has been
   assembled for developing this guide consists of representatives not
   only from fire and rescue but also law enforcement, emergency medical
   services and transportation. The first meeting of the panel will be
   November 28-29, 2001. Work on this guide is expected to take about 18
   months.

   NIOSH Web Site - Traffic Hazards to Fire Fighters While Working Along
   Roadway. This web site provided by the National Institute for
   Occupational Safety and Health has a discussion of the hazards facing
   firefighters and recommendations for improving firefighter safety. Many
   of these issues will be discussed in the development of the Model
   Procedures Guide for Highway Incidents.

   Highway Incident Safety for Emergency Responders
   This is an excellent web site that provides a fire services perspective
   on responder safety issues at traffic incidents. On this web site you
   will find links to a slide show on responder safety, a review of
   highway incidents involving fire and EMS personnel and recommendations
   on loss prevention. You will also find a white paper on protecting
   emergency responders as well as links to other related sites.

   DOT to the Rescue (Adobe PDF format document)
   Read this article about North Carolina's Incident Management Assistance
   Patrol (IMAP) in the monthly newsletter for NC DOT Employees. It's on
   Page 2.

   Virginia DOT’s Project Info-Share reduces traffic delays due to
   accidents and incidents thanks to an information sharing program
   sponsored by the Virginia Department of Transportation for police, fire
   and other incident response agencies in Virginia and adjacent states.
   Read about Project Info-Share on the VDOT web site.

   VDOT Earns National Award For Excellence in E-Emergency Management
   The Virginia Operational Information System (VOIS recently won the 2001
   Award for Excellence in e-Emergency Management from the State and Local
   Emergency Management Data Users Group (SALEMDUG), the national
   professional association for emergency management technology. Read
   about VOIS on the VDOT press release.

   Utah DOT Offers Free Emergency Response Training to Local Fire, Police,
   EMS, and Dispatch Personnel
   Emergency responders in the Salt Lake City area are gearing up for the
   2002 Olympics by acquiring new tools and receiving extra preparedness
   training. Read about this multi-agency response training on the UDOT
   web site.

   Ground Broken for State Police Communication Center in New Jersey
   This web site contains a new release on the ground breaking for a State
   Troop C Headquarters and Technology Center in Mercer County New
   Jersey.Note that the center will also contains facilities for State
   Department of Transportation (DOT) personnel and Department of
   Environmental Protection (DEP) personnel for operation of
   communications services from the center, thus helping to coordinate the
   three agencies' services, especially under emergency conditions.

   Houston Announces Inter-Agency Project for Houston Trans-Star Automated
   Incident Management Strategies and Support System Project
   This Mayoral Press Release announces an Inter-Agency Cost Share
   Agreement between the City of Houston and the Texas Department of
   Transportation to investigate the use of new technologies to improve
   the distribution of information on freeway traffic data and other
   incidents and emergencies.




                                 image line

   [Quick Links: Select a Destination Please______________________________
   _______...]

   DOT Logo U.S. Department of Transportation
   Federal Highway Administration
   FHWA Home | Operations CBU Home | Travel Management Home
   Privacy & Disclaimer Statement

   spacer
   Updated 29 October, 2001
