http://detroit.fbi.gov/contact/fo/detroit/history.htm

     Detroit Field Office image


                          Click here for the Detroit Division Jurisdiction
   Jurisdiction

             Click here for the Detroit Division Territory Map - Graphical
   Territory

            Click here for the Detroit Division Territory List - Text Only
   Text-only Territory

                             Click here for the Detroit Division Fugitives
   FBI's Most Wanted - Detroit

                                    Click here for our current events page
   Current Events

                                             Click here for our links page
   Links

                                        Click here for career opportunites
   Career

                             Click here for the Detroit Division Home Page
   Detroit Division
   Home Page

                                 Click here to E-Mail the Detroit Division
   E-Mail Us

                            Click here for the Privacy and Security Notice
   Privacy & Security Notice

                                    Click here for our current events page
   Community Outreach Program

   The FBI in Detroit has not always been known by that name. In 1924,
   when the office was opened as an investigative arm of the Department of
   Justice, it was known simply as the Bureau of Investigation. In July,
   1924, F. H. Hessler was appointed the first Special Agent in Charge
   (SAC) of Detroit and served in this capacity for the next several
   months. This occurred during a time when the newly appointed Director
   of the Bureau, a young man named J. Edgar Hoover, was in the process of
   realigning the FBI and its personnel. In October, 1924, Fred L. Parker
   was named SAC and served for one year until October, 1925.

   Detroit was a bustling city during this time and Prohibition was the
   law of the land. Rumrunners from Canada frequented Detroit's shorelines
   and Belle Isle was a common destination for these
   "entrepreneurs." Criminal groups such as Detroit's "Purple Gang"
   controlled much of this illicit activity and acted ruthlessly in
   enforcing their will.

   From January, 1927, until May, 1930, T.C. Wilcox served as the SAC of
   the Detroit office of the Bureau of Investigation. His tenure
   encompassed the great stock market crash of 1929 which led to be the
   worst economic depression ever experienced by this country. The Great
   Depression hit especially hard in Detroit due to the city's close ties
   to the automobile industry. More than 5.3 million cars had been built
   during 1929 and that number fell to just over 3 million in the
   following year.

   The Detroit office welcomed a new SAC in September, 1930.  Herman
   Hollis was destined to advance quickly in the Bureau. He was here for
   only nine months, but just long enough to see the opening of a
   wonderful tunnel which linked the city of Detroit to Windsor, Ontario,
   a Canadian city situated uniquely enough, to the south of Detroit. The
   tunnel took two and one-half years to build, cost a total of $25
   million, and was constructed under the swift currents of the Detroit
   River.  Agent Hollis left Detroit in April, 1931, and transferred
   several more times in the next year. In 1934, he was assigned to the
   busy Chicago office where he would be forever remembered as one of the
   two Agents involved in a shootout with infamous gangster "Babyface"
   Nelson. Agent Hollis and Inspector Samuel Cowley were killed during
   this gun battle, but were able to inflict wounds on Nelson which
   resulted in his death the following day.

   The Bureau's Detroit office saw a number of acting SAC's during the
   next two years. It was not until May, 1932, that the office would have
   a permanent SAC once again assigned to lead it. William Larson served
   in this capacity for three years.

   During the mid to late 1930s, the economic crisis eased in the country
   and in Detroit as well. Automobile production steadily increased and
   more workers returned to their jobs. Significant changes were occurring
   in the city as major construction projects were initiated and
   transportation expanded. The Bureau underwent it's own changes during
   this time including a change of the organization's official name in
   1935 from the Bureau of Investigation to today's Federal Bureau of
   Investigation.

   H.H. Reinecke was designated SAC for Detroit in January, 1936, and
   served until February, 1937. His replacement, J.C. Newman, functioned
   in this capacity for the next 15 months and was replaced by John S.
   Bugas in May, 1938. SAC Bugas served in this role until January,
   1944. It was his tenure that witnessed entry of America into World War
   II and the establishment of Detroit as "The Arsenal of Democracy." All
   of the major automobile manufacturers were heavily involved in the war
   effort, building planes, tanks, bombs, and guns. Henry Ford, inventor
   of the renowned Model-T automobile and patriarch of the Ford Motor Car
   company, was typical of the Detroit industrialists instrumental in the
   effort against the Axis powers. Ford oversaw construction of the Willow
   Run B-24 Liberty Bomber plant which was churning out 650 planes per
   month by the end of 1944. This plant accounted for 70 percent of all
   B-24 production in the nation during 1945, the last year of World War
   II.

   In January, 1944, R.A. Guerin was appointed SAC of Detroit and served
   until October, 1946. On September 5, 1944, SAC Guerin and the 130 or so
   Special Agents assigned to the Division had their day interrupted when
   Detroit experienced a slight earthquake. Fortunately, no serious damage
   ensued from the quake.

   The office experienced a growth spurt on November 1, 1945.  The Grand
   Rapids Field Office, located in Grand Rapids, Michigan, was
   consolidated into the Detroit office. Grand Rapids became a satellite
   office of Detroit or, as it is known in Bureau vernacular, a Resident
   Agency. At that time, the office was located in Room 400 of the Grand
   Rapids National Bank Building.

   While memories of the 1944 earthquake were undoubtedly still on the
   minds of Detroit office employees, another natural disaster struck the
   southeastern Michigan area on June 17, 1946. A tornado touched down
   resulting in significant damage to the city of Windsor. Several
   individuals were killed during the storm.  The Detroit FBI office
   turned out to render assistance to the Canadians resulting in a City
   Counsel of Windsor resolution expressing appreciation for our efforts.

   The 1950s are remembered as halcyon days for America and Michigan as
   well. Woodward Avenue, known far and wide for cruising and
   drive-through hamburger stands, was an immensely popular place for
   youngsters. That new medium known as television took off like wildfire
   in Detroit where locals such as Soupy Sales and Bob McFea as "Bozo the
   Clown" became legends overnight. The Gerber Baby Food company of
   Michigan began marketing their products in supermarkets in order to
   feed the new baby boomers. The Kellogg's Company of Battle Creek,
   Michigan, introduced a newfangled brand of cereal, already containing
   sugar. In 1955, a retail outlet known as J. L. Hudson Company opened
   one of the first shopping malls in the United States in Southfield,
   Michigan. It was appropriately christened "Northland." One of the first
   freeways in the country the Davison expressway, helped facilitate
   traffic. In the Detroit FBI office, Harry T. O' Connor had been
   appointed SAC in 1946. He was to remain in that position until
   September, 1951. This relatively lengthy tenure was offset by more
   frequent turnover during the next few years. From 1951 through 1955,
   the office saw four different SACs, including J.A. Robey, E. Scheidt,
   F. H. McIntire, and C.W. Brown. By February 24, 1956, the office had
   Resident Agencies opened not only in Grand Rapids, but in Ann Arbor,
   Flint, and Lansing as well.  In less than two years, the number of
   Resident Agencies had increased to 17 cities throughout Michigan and
   included Ann Arbor, Flint, Lansing, Saginaw, Battle Creek, Bay City,
   Benton Harbor, Ironwood, Jackson, Kalamazoo, Marquette, Monroe,
   Muskegon, Pontiac, Port Huron, Sault Ste. Marie, and Traverse City.

   In October, 1958, Thomas J. Gearty was named SAC of Detroit.  At that
   time, the office was located in the United States Post Office and
   Courthouse at 231 West Lafayette in Detroit, the site of the present
   day U.S. Courthouse.  The Sault Ste. Marie Resident Agency had closed
   by this time, leaving the state with 16 Resident Agencies. Between
   those 16 satellite offices were assigned a grand total of 35 Special
   Agents.

   SAC Gearty was replaced by SAC Donald S. Hostetter in July, 1959.  SAC
   Hostetter held this position until September, 1962. It was during this
   time that Agents of the Detroit office located and apprehended Thomas
   Viola, a Top Ten fugitive who was on the run for unlawful flight to
   escape the crime of murder. On July 24, 1962, Detroit Special Agents,
   assisted by offices from the Detroit Police Department, located and
   apprehended Charles Wolfe, Norman Brandt, and Richard Stegeman, three
   escapees from a Kansas jail. These arrests were effected within four
   hours of the Agents learning of the escape.

   In September, 1962, Bernard C. Brown was designated SAC of Detroit.  By
   this time, Detroit was in the process of acquiring the moniker
   "Motown." The recording studio "Hitsville" either had or would soon
   have under contract such Detroit singing sensations as Martha Reeves,
   The Temptations, The Supremes, Marvin Gaye, and Smokey Robinson. On
   January 2, 1964, Agents of the Detroit office located and arrested two
   fugitives involved in the theft of rare books, coins, and documents
   from the National Archives in Washington, D.C.  Sixteen cartons of
   stolen merchandise valued in the hundreds of thousands of dollars were
   recovered as a result of this investigation.

   In February, 1965, Paul H. Stoddard replaced SAC Brown as the Agent in
   Charge of the Detroit Division. He would serve in this capacity until
   May, 1970.

   Since the late 1970s, the Detroit Division of the FBI has been located
   at its current site in the Patrick V. McNamara Federal Office
   Building. While the office has undergone and been witness to many
   changes since its beginning in the early part of the century, the
   commitment of the people that work here and their desire to pursue
   violations of Federal laws in a fair and equitable fashion, remains
   constant.

   Back to top
