http://cbp-1.lbl.gov/links.htm

                        [links.gif] Links [links.gif]




   [us_map.gif] US Department of Energy and DOE Labs


   US Department of Energy (DOE)

   The main website for the US Department of Energy features directives
   for US Department of Energy Research, which funds much of the
   scientific research at national labs today.

   AMES Laboratory (AMES)

   Located in Iowa, AMES research is primarily concerned with chemical,
   engineering, materials, and physical sciences.

   Argonne National Laboratory (ANL)

   Located in Illinois, ANL is one of the DOE's largest research
   facilities. Argonne features many research instruments related to beam
   physics including a linear accelerator, pulsed neutron source, and the
   Advanced Photon Source.

   Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL)

   BNL features many instruments related to the use of beams in research,
   including the Alternating Gradient Synchrotron, The Accelerator Test
   Facility, The Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, The National Synchrotron
   Light Source, Tandem Van de Graaf Accelerator, and the High Flux Beam
   Reactor.

   Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL)

   The Center for Beam Physics is located here at LBNL in Berkeley,
   California. LBNL is managed by UC Berkeley for the US DOE. Probably the
   most historically significant laboratory in the United States, LBNL is
   still one of the leaders in scientific research in the United States.
   Visit the LBNL homepage to find out more.

   Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (FNAL)

   "Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory advances the understanding of
   the fundamental nature of matter and energy..." Fermilab operates the
   world's highest-energy particle accelerator, the Tevatron. More than
   2,200 scientists from 36 states and 20 countries use Fermilab's
   facilities to carry out research on the frontiers of particle physics.

   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL)

   Concerned primarily with radioactive waste management, treatment, and
   research, INEEL researchers strive to be looked at as "THE national
   environmental laboratory with viable solutions to nation's complex
   environmental problems."

   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL)

   LLNL is located not too far from LBNL in Livermore, California. The
   facility studies many aspects of physics, engineering, and other
   sciences in an effort to serve national security. Much of the work at
   LLNL involves classified scientific research on the forefront of
   technology.

   Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL)

   Born as part of The Manhattan Project in 1943, LANL strives today to
   reduce the danger of nuclear weapons and nuclear materials worldwide
   through scientific research into ensuring that the US has safe, secure,
   and reliable nuclear weapons, and ensuring the safe disposal and
   destruction of nuclear weapons and nuclear waste.

   National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)

   The U.S. Department of Energy's premier Laboratory for renewable energy
   & energy efficiency research, development & deployment.

   Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL)

   ORNL research covers several scientific disciplines including
   biological sciences, engineering, and energy research. ORNL is managed
   by Lockheed Martin for the US DOE.

   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL)

   A multidisciplinary research facility that "brings science and
   technology together to solve problems for [DOE]..." PNNL research
   involves environmental research, national security research, and
   nuclear science and technology research.

   Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL)

   PPPL is the only DOE laboratory devoted solely to fusion research. Much
   of the research at PPPL in Princeton, New Jersey involves plasma
   physics, beams, and the manipulation of beams in the pursuit of fusion
   research.

   Sandia National Laboratories (SNL)

   SNL located in Albuquerque, New Mexico is operated by Lockheed Martin
   for the US DOE. SNL produces non-nuclear components for the nation's
   nuclear weapons, performs a wide variety of energy research, and
   responds to national security threats.

   Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC)

   The Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in Palo Alto, California is
   managed by Stanford University for the US DOE. Research at SLAC is
   primarily based on beam physics - the manipulation, collision, and
   subatomic particle detection of beams created in the 2-mile long linear
   accelerator featured at SLAC.

   Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility (TJNAF)

   The primary research done at The Jefferson Lab is probing the nature of
   subatomic particles, especially the quark (currently the
   smallest/most-basic identifiable particle in the universe). This is
   achieved by detecting subatomic particles through particle collisions
   in the lab's 7/8 mile underground tunnel linear accelerator.


   [earth.gif]

              International Facilities and Beam Related Groups


   TRIUMF National Laboratory in Canada

   A Canadian lab researching subatomic particle physics and practical
   applications of particle beams. The laboratory is managed by four
   universities and features research into the medical applications of
   particle beams, subatomic particles, and other applied physics systems.

   Daresbury Accelerator Laboratory

   Daresbury is located in England. Much of the research at Daresbury is
   done using synchrotron radiation and high energy beam collisions to
   study subatomic particles.

   Institute for High Energy Physics

   A Russian institute with online links, papers, and research information
   regarding high energy physics projects, particle physics projects, and
   research taking place around the world today.

   Physics Instrumentation Center

   A Russian facility devoted to beam research, especially dynamics of
   lasers.

   KEK - National Laboratory for High Energy Physics

   The KEK research facility is located in Japan. Research at KEK involves
   advanced studies of subatomic particles and related sciences using
   advanced accelerators and detectors. These accelerators utilize some of
   the most advanced concepts in beam physics today to pursue dreams of a
   more knowledgeable tomorrow.

   Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (SRRC)

   A research laboratory in Taiwan, SRRC research involves beamlines,
   synchrotron radiation, development of technology for beam physics, and
   a synchrotron radiation light source, much like ALS, here at LBNL.

   European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN)

   CERN is one of the world's leading particle physics research facilities
   located in Geneva, Switzerland. CERN is on the forefront of scientific
   research in particle physics, beam physics, and all other aspects of
   science.

   High Energy Physics Links Page at CERN

   A great page that offers many links to websites featuring high energy
   physics and beam physics around the world.


   [labanim.gif] LBNL and UC Berkeley Links


   The Advanced Light Source

   Located right here at LBNL, The Advanced Light Source is the world's
   most brightest source of ultraviolet and soft x-ray beams. ALS is
   comprised of a large synchrotron and several "beamlines" that create
   intense focused beams for various research projects.

   Microworlds

   A website "magazine" for ALS. Microworlds takes an elementary approach
   to understanding the concepts at research at ALS. An excellent site for
   children of all ages to learn even more about beams.

   The Center for Beam Physics

   The Center for Beam Physics is where this site is located and
   maintained. It is also the primary focus of this site.

   UC Berkeley Beam Physics Homepage

   A site devoted to a project currently underway at UC Berkeley to create
   "beam drivers" for fusion research. This project is part of the
   Department of Nuclear Engineering.

   UC Berkeley Inertial Confinement Homepage

   Graduate students and professors in the Department of Nuclear
   Engineering at U.C. Berkeley study a variety of topics related to
   inertial confinement fusion (ICF). From this UCB-ICF home page, you can
   find links to information about inertial fusion energy and related
   research projects now underway at UCB.

   National Center for Electron Microscopy

   The National Center for Electron Microscopy is located here at LBNL.
   Electron microscopy involves using very highly focused and coherent
   beams of electrons to scan extremely small objects at the molecular
   level. This center provides facilities necessary for that type of
   research, as well as new microscopy-driven research.

   Center for X-Ray Optics

   The Center for X-Ray Optics (CXRO) was established in 1984 at the
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL). It has complementary
   roles: demonstrating the scientific capabilities and usefulness of the
   x-ray and extreme ultraviolet regions of the spectrum and developing
   equipment and techniques which make those capabilities widely and
   readily available.


   [links.gif] Various Links [links.gif]


   The American Physical Society

   An organization of physicists around the country. APS involves itself
   in informing the physics community about current research, discoveries,
   and projects, as well as awarding prizes and awards to scientists in
   various fields, including beam physics.

   The Plasma and Beam Physics Group at the University of Colorado

   The Plasma and Beam Physics Group at the University of Colorado carries
   out research in plasma and beam physics. They are also doing research
   in nonlinear dynamics and its application to plasma and beam physics,
   and they investigate the use of object oriented programming methods in
   the modeling of beams and plasmas.

   Opto & Laser Europe Online Magazine

   An online magazine devoted to conveying current research and beam
   physics technology. This magazine is devoted to the discussion of laser
   beam physics and optics in a scientific forum.

   Particle-Surface Resources on the Internet

   A site maintained by the chair of The Physics Department at Cal State
   Fullerton. A comprehensive and thorough list of links to various
   physics websites all over the world, including over 160 links to sites
   ranging from particle beam physics and dynamics to websites devoted to
   various conferences, workshops, and meetings.

   LE Fast Counter

   Great site with free web tracking and statistical analysis. This
   company provides statistical analysis for this site.


                                [elevbak.gif]
