http://eob.gsfc.nasa.gov/Newsroom/NasaNews/2002/200201287319.html

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                             News

     Nasa News Stories Archive

     January 28, 2002

     NEW SATELLITE MAPS REVEAL WHERE IN THE WORLD LIGHTNING STRIKES

     Lightning. It avoids the ocean, but likes Florida. It's likely to
     strike in the Himalayas and even more so in central Africa. And
     lightning almost never strikes the North or South Poles.

     These are just a few of the things NASA scientists at the National
     Space Science and Technology Center (NSSTC) in Huntsville, Ala., have
     learned using satellites to monitor worldwide lightning.

     "For the first time, we've been able to map the global distribution of
     lightning, noting its variation as a function of latitude, longitude
     and time of year," said Hugh Christian, a scientist from NASA's
     Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala. and project leader for
     the lightning team at the NSSTC's Global Hydrology and Climate Center.

     This new perspective on lightning is possible thanks to two
     satellite-based detectors: the Optical Transient Detector (OTD) and the
     Lightning Imaging Sensor (LIS).

     "These are two optical sensors that we've flown in lower Earth orbit,"
     said Christian, whose team developed the sensors. "The Optical
     Transient Detector was launched in 1995 and we got five good years out
     of it, compared to the two years expected, before it stopped
     transmitting data. The Lightning Imaging Sensor was launched on the
     Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission satellite in 1997, and it's still
     going strong."

     "Basically, these optical sensors use high-speed cameras to look for
     changes in the tops of clouds, changes your eyes can't see," he
     explained. By analyzing a narrow wavelength band around 777 nanometers
     -- which is in the near-infrared region of the spectrum -- they can
     spot brief lightning flashes even under daytime conditions.

     Before the Optical Transient Detector and Lightning Imaging Sensor,
     only approximate global lightning patterns were known. Ground-based
     lightning detectors employing radio-frequency sensors provide
     high-quality local measurements. But because such sensors have a
     limited range, oceans and low-population areas had been poorly sampled.

     The development of space-based optical detectors was a major advance,
     giving researchers their first complete picture of planet-wide
     lightning activity. The new maps show that Florida, for example, is one
     place where the rate of strikes is unusually high.

     Dennis Boccippio, an atmospheric scientist with the NSSTC lightning
     team, explained why: "Florida experiences two sea breezes: one from the
     East Coast and one from the West Coast." The "push" between these two
     breezes forces ground air upward and triggers thunderstorms.

     Within thunderclouds, turbulence spawned by updrafts causes tiny ice
     crystals and water droplets, called "hydrometeors," to bump around and
     collide. For reasons not fully understood, positive electric charge
     accumulates on smaller particles -- that is, on hydrometeors smaller
     than about 100 micrometers -- while negative charges grow on the larger
     ones. Winds and gravity separate the charged hydrometeors and produce
     an enormous electrical potential within the storm.

     "Lightning is one of the mechanisms to relax this build-up," said
     Boccippio.

     Another lightning hot spot is in the Himalayas, where the extreme local
     topography forces the convergence of air masses from the Indian Ocean.

     And where does lightning strike most frequently? Central Africa. "There
     you get thunderstorms all year 'round," Christian said. "It's a result
     of weather patterns, air flow from the Atlantic Ocean, and enhancement
     by mountainous areas."

     The satellite data also track patterns of lightning intensity over
     time. In the Northern Hemisphere, for example, most lightning happens
     during the summer months. But in equatorial regions, lightning appears
     more often during the fall and spring.

     Meanwhile, areas such as the Arctic and Antarctic have very few
     thunderstorms and, therefore, almost no lightning at all.

     "Oceanic areas also experience a dearth of lightning," Christian said.
     "People living on some of the islands in the Pacific don't describe
     much lightning in their language." The ocean surface doesn't warm up as
     much as land does during the day because of water's higher heat
     capacity. Heating of low-lying air is crucial for storm formation, so
     the oceans don't experience as many thunderstorms.

     According to Boccippio these global patterns probably aren't much
     influenced by human activity. Some people have suggested that buildings
     and metal communications towers increase the overall frequency of
     lightning strikes. But, "lightning that does make it to the ground is
     pretty much creating its own channels," Boccippio said.

     "The likelihood that we are changing the amount of cloud-to-ground
     strikes with construction of towers is very slim." He cautions,
     however, that this has not been verified experimentally.

     To answer such questions, a new lightning detector -- the Lightning
     Mapper Sensor or "LMS" -- is on the drawing board at the National Space
     Science and Technology Center. The proposed instrument would circle our
     planet in a geostationary orbit over the United States, detecting all
     forms of lightning with a high spatial resolution and detection
     efficiency.

     The LMS, or something like it, could provide valuable -- even
     life-saving -- data to weather forecasters. "The same updrafts that
     drive severe weather often cause a spike in the lightning rate at the
     onset of a storm," explained Boccippio. So, measuring the rate of
     lightning flashes in real time might offer a way to identify
     potentially deadly storms before they become deadly.

     ##

     Contact:
     Steve Roy
     NASA/Marshall Space Flight Center News Center
     256-544-0034
     steve.roy@msfc.nasa.gov

     This text derived from
     http://www1.msfc.nasa.gov/newsroom/NSSTC/news/releases/2002/N02-001.htm
     l

     Back to: News


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
