http://rrdjazz.nist.gov/access.html

   NIST Center for Neutron Research

   Home Instruments UserProposal Experiments Firewall SiteMap

            HOW TO OBTAIN UNESCORTED ACCESS TO THE NCNR FACILITY:

                               NIST employees
                               click here

     Four steps must be followed before a first time user can perform
     experiments at the NCNR (NIST Center for Neutron Research) and
     obtain unescorted access to the NIST site and the NIST Center for
     Neutron Research Building:
    1. Undergo Health Physics Radiation Safety Training which is divided
       into two parts: A computer-guided course and a 30-minute tour. The
       computer part can be downloaded by clicking on Health Physics
       Radiation Safety Training, but the tour must be given at the
       facility. Both parts need to be completed and signed off by Health
       Physics before you can receive a dosimeter or temporary card key
       badge. TRAINING TAKES THE BETTER PART OF ONE DAY AND IS TYPICALLY
       STARTED AT 9:30 AM. This training must be repeated every two years
       for you to stay on the access list. If you are unsure of your
       current status, contact the NCNR office (at (301) 975-6210 or email
       at ncnraccess@nist.gov.
    2. Please bring with you a brief letter of identification from your
       home institution, often referred to as the "trustworthy" letter.
       This letter should be signed by a supervisor or colleague who can
       attest to your trustworthiness. It should be addressed to Dr. J.
       Michael Rowe, Director, and NCNR and should be presented to the
       NCNR contact after training is completed.
    3. Complete a "Facility User Safety Awareness Checklist", which will
       be reviewed and signed by you and your NIST sponsor after your
       Health Physics Radiation Safety Training is completed.
    4. Complete a Signed Facility User Agreement, which will be given to
       you after your Health Physics Radiation Training. If you are a
       non-citizen, please bring proof of stay in the United States
       (example: IAP66, I94, I20, green card, etc). A tourist VISA is not
       acceptable. If you plan to stay more than 10 days (non-citizen) or
       30 days (US citizen) a calendar year, a security assurance will
       need to be completed after you arrive.

     Request Radiation Safety Training (First Time User & Retraining)
                         (Non-NIST employees only)

     Check the current training request list

     If you are a first time user, do not request dosimetry, it will be
     issued after your initial training. If you are already on the access
     list and you are a returning user, please request personal dosimetry
     here. After receipt of this request, your current Agreement and
     training status will be checked.

     Request Personal Dosimetry

     Check the current dosimetry request list

                               CHRNS Proposals

     Last modified 04-January-2002
