http://cpen.nci.nih.gov/about/index.htm

   [woman_smiling_2_top.gif] About CPEN NCI Logo
   [woman_smiling_2_bottom.gif]

   Planning Resources
   Educational Resources
   News and Events
   About CPEN
   Contact CPEN
   Useful Links
   Site Map
   CPEN Members
   MAIN
   The Cancer Patient Education Network is composed of cancer patient
   education program leaders from NCI-designated cancer centers
   nationwide. Currently, there are over 70 members. The CPEN was
   established in 1989 by the National Cancer Institute's Patient
   Education Branch (PEB) and provides a formal mechanism for the exchange
   of information among cancer patient educators thus improving the
   management and delivery of patient education services.

   What is the CPEN mission?
   As stated in the bylaws (revised July 2000), the mission reads as
   follows: The NCI Cancer Patient Education Network represents the cancer
   education leadership of NCI-designated cancer centers to promote
   excellence in patient, family and community education across the
   continuum of cancer care.

   Who are the members of CPEN?
   CPEN Membership is limited to cancer patient education representatives
   from each NCI-designated cancer center and their affiliated hospitals.
   One individual from each cancer center is designated as the primary
   CPEN contact and voting member. Other staff may attend the annual
   meeting and participate on committees.

   How does CPEN communicate as a network?
   The CPEN Listserv and web site, an annual meeting, and quarterly
   conference calls facilitate communication among CPEN members and with
   the NCI. Members receive notification of NCI news releases, fact
   sheets, and new resources. A resource guide and directory facilitate
   networking among members.

   The CPEN Steering Committee oversees several committees including:
     * Awards Committee
       Established three awards in 1999: Distinguished Service, Gold Star,
       and Excellence in Cancer Patient Education.
     * Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) Committee
       Compiled an annotated bibliography of CAM resources and completed
       an in-depth survey of CAM services at NCI Cancer Centers.
     * Electronic Bulletin Board Committee
       Launched a Listserv and developed the CPEN web site.
     * Learning Resource Centers Group
       Conducted a survey of learning center coordinators at CPEN
       institutions.
     * Research Committee
       Reviewed the cancer patient education literature and co-wrote an
       article about cancer patient education research. In the future,
       interested in conducting collaborative research.
     * New Member Orientation Committee
       Helps familiarize new CPEN members with the network, its culture,
       and resources.
     * Staff Development Group
       Coordinates and identifies professional development opportunities
       for CPEN members.


   Updated 1/24/2002
