http://www.src.wa.gov/news/westcol112101.htm

                                  [2h_media.jpg]

                       Essential services must be protected
                        as Legislature faces budget crisis
                            Special to the Senior Times



   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   November 21, 2001

                                                   FOR INTERVIEWS CONTACT:
                                            Sen. James West (360) 786-7610

      Just this past week, I received that now-famous invitation from the
      AARP to become a member in good standing. I still don’t know who told
      them that I passed the 50^th birthday milestone this year and
      officially became a seasoned citizen.

      As I crossed that threshold I reflected that my generation, the baby
      boomers, really wasn’t tested and forged by adversity as my parents’
      generation was. They were born and raised during the Depression, called
      to duty during the war and asked to build the American economy through
      the 1950s and ‘60s. Theirs was a generation that believed in hard work,
      saved religiously, was restrained in its use of debt, put family first,
      and believed in the greatness of this country. For this we owe them a
      debt. Unfortunately, many of our leaders today failed to learn their
      lessons and do not have the same ethic.

      When the Legislature meets in Olympia next January, it will face
      perhaps the worst state budget scenario in 20 years.

      Many would like to blame the September 11^th terrorist attacks for this
      difficult time, but in fact the warning signs were starting to surface
      nearly a year ago. The unemployment rate began to rise last year as the
      Spokane area alone lost thousands of good-paying jobs to layoffs. The
      energy crisis of last winter put a financial burden not only on
      individuals but businesses as well. Because of this and other factors,
      Kaiser has still not reopened and may not for many more months. In the
      spring, The Boeing Company foresaw a slowdown in its sales and moved
      its corporate headquarters out of state because Washington’s business
      climate was poor. At the same time, many high-tech firms reduced their
      workforces as the economy cooled.

      Two years ago, the Legislature and Governor Locke unwisely assumed that
      the good times would roll forever and cut the Emergency Reserve Fund in
      half and went on a spending binge. That led to a budget this year that
      was precariously balanced by spending $650 million more than the state
      would collect in taxes. We were largely ignored as many of us protested
      this spending plan, arguing that the signs of an economic slowdown were
      all around us. To her credit, Helen Sommers, Democrat co-chairwoman of
      the House Appropriations Committee, faced the facts squarely. "This
      budget is like writing a check on an account without enough money to
      cover the check," she said, on the day the governor signed the budget
      into law. Unfortunately she voted for the budget she helped write.

      On November 20^th, we learned the total impact of the recession and the
      September 11^th attack when the Revenue Forecast Council announced that
      state revenues will be down $779 million and voter-approved initiatives
      reduced revenue an additional $37 million. Last week we learned that
      state caseloads for mandatory programs and budget decisions made last
      year will cost an additional $400 million. The total impact of this is
      a budget that is $1.2 billion – yes, that’s billion – out of balance.

      This will be a difficult session with difficult decisions to be made.
      At the same time we are learning that spending is too high, many groups
      are approaching the Legislature to create new programs and spend more.

      What are the lessons here? The reserves were started in 1994 after the
      economic slowdown of 1993. At the time, there was a recognition that a
      strong economy wasn’t a birthright and there was a need to set money
      aside for bad times. It’s a harsh lesson our parents learned in the
      ‘30s and ‘40s. Unfortunately, less than 20 percent of the Legislature
      remembers the budget cuts and tax increases of 1993. Only four members
      of the Legislature remember the last recession in 1981.

      Our top priority in the coming session must be protecting essential
      services. This can only be accomplished in the future by having
      adequate reserves and resisting the temptation to draw those reserves
      down in good times. A lesson my generation is slow to learn.

                                     –end–

      Senator James West is the Senate Republican Leader. He serves Spokane’s
      6^th Legislative District.



   [leg._building.jpg] About Your Senator [bd12538_.jpg] Issues In Focus
   [microphone2.jpg] Media Center/Breaking News

                           Return to SRC Home Page
   Thank you for your interest in the Washington State Senate Republican
   Caucus.
   If you have questions, you may contact the caucus office at:
    PO Box 40462, Olympia, WA 98504-0462, (360) 786-7517
   or e-mail: Republican Caucus for further assistance.
   10/08/01
