http://www.dtsc.ca.gov/privacy.html


      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   Home
                   Toxics Questions?
                   Public Notices
                   Calendar
                   Laws, Regulations, and Policies
                   Site Cleanup
                   Managing Hazardous Waste
                   Pollution Prevention
                   Science and Technology
                   News Releases
                   Publications and Forms
                   Employment
                   How to Contact DTSC
                   Department of Toxic Substances Control



   Department of Toxic Substances Control




        __________ search
   ( )  My CA (*)   This Site
           Search Tips


   DTSC: Home Page

   Privacy Policy

   Pursuant to Government Code Section 11019.9, all departments and
   agencies of the State of California shall enact and maintain a
   permanent privacy policy, in adherence with the Information Practices
   Act of 1977 (Civil Code Section 1798 et seq.), that includes, but not
   necessarily limited to, the following principles:

   (a) Personally identifiable information may only be obtained through
   lawful means.

   (b) The purposes for which personally identifiable data are collected
   shall be specified at or prior to the time of collection, and any
   subsequent use of the data shall be limited to and consistent with the
   fulfillment of those purposes previously specified.

   (c) Personal data may not be disclosed, made available, or otherwise
   used for a purpose other than those specified, except with the consent
   of the subject of the data, or as required by law or regulation.

   (d) Personal data collected shall be relevant to the purpose for which
   it is needed.

   (e) The general means by which personal data is protected against loss,
   unauthorized access, use, modification, or disclosure shall be posted,
   unless the disclosure of those general means would compromise
   legitimate agency objectives or law enforcement purposes.

   Each department shall implement this privacy policy by:
     * Designating which position within the department or agency is
       responsible for the implementation of and adherence to this privacy
       policy;
     * Prominently posting the policy physically in its offices and on its
       Internet website, if any;
     * Distributing the policy to each of its employees and contractors
       who have access to personal data;
     * Complying with the Information Practices Act (Civil Code Section
       1798 et seq.), the Public Records Act (Government Code Section 6250
       et seq.), Government Code Section 11015.5, and all other laws
       pertaining to information privacy, and
     * Using appropriate means to successfully implement and adhere to
       this privacy policy.

   Link to California's Home Page Back to Top of Page Back to DTSC's Home
                 Page Link to Governor Gray Davis' Home Page

   Cal/EPA | Air Resources Board | California Integrated Waste Management
                 Board | Department of Pesticide Regulation
       Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment | State Water
                           Resources Control Board
            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
     TM/2001 Hollywood Chamber of Commerce licensed by Global Icons, Los
                   Angeles, CA 90034. All Rights Reserved.
