http://www.oklahoma.feb.gov/Mission.html

            Missions of Federal Executive Boards and Associations

    "Although each executive agency and its field organization have a
   special mission, there are many matters on which the work of the
   departments converge. Among them are management and budgetary
   procedures, personnel policies, recruitment efforts, office information
   duties, and similar matters. There are opportunities to pool experience
   and resources, and to accomplish savings. In substantive programs there
   are also opportunities for a more closely coordinated approach in many
   activities."

   With those words, the concept of Federal Executive Boards was
   introduced by President John F. Kennedy in 1961. Today, a quarter of a
   century later, twenty-eight FEBs exist to provide closer coordination
   among Federal agencies outside Washington DC.

                                   MISSION

   To increase the effectiveness and economy of Federal agencies in
   Oklahoma.

   1961 Presidential Memo, 5CFR Part 960

                              VISION STATEMENT

   FEBs are considered the preferred single point of contact, the liaison,
   to communicate national and local government initiatives in an
   effective and efficient manner.

                                GENERAL GOALS
     * Communicate - The FEB provides a forum for member agencies to share
       each other's initiatives, successes, concerns, challenges, and
       informs the local community of national interagency policies and
       priorities.
     * Coordinate Emergency and Other Interagency Actions - The FEB stands
       ready to immediately facilitate marshaling the resources of the
       Oklahoma federal community, whether to aid a member agency in
       crisis, assist the citizenry in a public emergency, or implement
       initiatives that affect the federal community.
     * Facilitate Customer Service - The FEB facilitates effective
       customer service across agencies.
     * Partner with Community Groups - The FEB partners with community
       groups to identify and help solve problems.
     * Reduce Costs and Improve Efficiency - The FEB brings together
       agencies with common goals by pooling experiences and resources so
       that their efforts are complementary and more cost effective.

   Back to FEB Page
