http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/news_events.html

   LINCSearch National Institute for Literacy Site Map
                                              Skip Navigational Links
                                              News and Events

                                                                About NIFL

   Frequently Asked Questions

   News & Events

   Programs & Services

   Policy & Legislation

   Publications

   Join Mailing List

   Contact NIFL

   For Other Literacy Resources, Go To LINCS


              News & Events

                                                      Grants and Contracts
                                                        Calendar of Events

     * The National Institute for Literacy Launches NIFL in the States Web
       Site
       NIFL in the States is a new research and implementation tool from
       the Institute. When fully completed, users will be able find
       information about NIFL's involvement in each state and territory,
       other key resources in the states, and whom to contact to get
       involved or learn more. Currently, this tool includes state-level
       policy and legislative information. Information on other NIFL
       programs and activities is coming soon.
     * The National Institute for Literacy Launches America's Literacy
       Directory web site
       www.literacydirectory.org
       On September 7, the National Institute for Literacy and its
       partners, the U.S. Department of Education, the U.S. Department of
       Labor, and Verizon, launched America's Literacy Directory (ALD).
       The ALD is a comprehensive, on-line searchable database of local
       literacy providers from all 50 states and U.S. territories.
       "America's Literacy Directory promises to help learners,
       prospective volunteers, job counselors, librarians - really
       everyone - independently find literacy programs in their
       communities," said NIFL Director Andy Hartman. "This is the first
       time such a comprehensive resource has been so widely available."
       The Directory contains comprehensive information about literacy
       programs for adults and children in all 50 states, describes their
       services and class schedules, gives directions, and provides
       contact information. It allows users to search according to program
       location, age group served, and services offered, such as GED
       preparation and English as a Second Language (ESL). The information
       can also be accessed by calling the NIFL's National Literacy
       Hotline at 1-800-228-8813.
       If your organization provides adult basic education and/or
       children's literacy services, you can be listed in the Directory.
       If you are already on NIFL's mailing list, you should have recently
       received a request from us to update your data. Simply respond to
       this request and your program will be included in the directory. If
       you did not receive a request from us and you would like your
       organization to be included in the directory, you can fill out an
       on-line form by selecting "Add New Program to Directory" from the
       menu bar at the bottom of the ALD website. Or call or e-mail LeAnna
       Marr at 202-233-2036 or lmarr@nifl.gov to request that a form be
       sent to you.
     * Interim Director Designated at the National Institute for Literacy
       Dr. Sandra Baxter has been named by Deputy Secretary of Education
       William Hansen as Interim Director for the National Institute for
       Literacy (NIFL), an independent federal agency focused on adult and
       family literacy issues. Read more...
     * Summit Year-One Report
       The Year-One Report of the National Literacy Summit celebrates the
       achievements of the first year since the launch of the initial
       Summit report, From the Margins to the Mainstream: An Action Agenda
       for Literacy. That report represented the adult literacy field's
       best thinking about how to improve the nation's system of adult
       literacy, language, and lifelong learning services. The Year-One
       Report also defines Year Two wherein the Summit Initiative will
       move to improve the context of adult literacy's operational
       environment by enhancing the field's ability to friend-raise and
       fund-raise to reach the goal: "By 2010, a system of high quality
       adult literacy, language, and lifelong learning services will help
       adults in every community make measurable gains toward achieving
       their goals as family members, workers, citizens, and lifelong
       learners."
       For general information on the National Literacy Summit, click
       here.


              NIFL HOME CONTACT NIFL ABOUT NIFL NATIONAL LINCS
