http://www-fbsc.ncifcrf.gov/cachauresearch.html

   Welcome to the ABCC Website!


   ABCC website:  About ABCC Accounts  Hardware  Runable programs
                    Links    Software Networking     Training
   [logo55.gif]

   Search in ABCC pages _______________

   Search Reset
   GENERAL INFO
   Home
   Mission Statement
   Email us
   HELP DESK (301-846-5555)
   Staff
   User support (web-based)
   Training
   Tutorials
   Hardware Messages-of-the-Day
   Research
   Services
   High Performance Computing
   Video Conferenc ing at the FCRDC
   BIO-LOGUE Archives
   SOFTWARE
   QUICK LINKS

   [Select one__________________]
   HARDWARE
   Cray Research
   Cray SV1-4/96-96 Supercomputer
   J916 Classic Vector Computer
   J932se Vector Computer

   Silicon Graphics, Inc.
   Onyx Computer
   Power Challenge Superscalar Computer
   Origin 2000

   Digital Equipment Corporation
   Alpha 8400 Superscalar Computer

   International Business Machines
   Scalable PowerParallel 2 Superscalar Computer

   Hewlett Packard/Convex
   Exemplar UniTree Data Archival Computer

   StorageTek
   9311 Nearline Robotic Tape Silo

   Sun Microsystems
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation

   MISCELLANEOUS
   FCRDC Home
   Library
   Site map
   [pixel.gif]
   Homology Modeling in the Bioinformatics Age
   A Research Project of Dr. Raul E. Cachau
   Proteins are essential chemical components of every known form of life.
   Their wide functional ability is not the result of chemical complexity
   but, instead, that of nature's ingenuity to build complex structures
   from simple components. Proteins are linear polymers, based on merely
   20 different building blocks that define the sequence of the protein
   chain. However, if the three dimensional (3D) structure of a protein
   would resemble that of a loose rod, few different functions could be
   expected from it. Protein functional flexibility results from the
   ability of the chain to fold over itself, defining complex 3D objects.
   [cachau1.jpg]
   Structural studies of biomolecules have changed our perception of the
   biological world in the past twenty years. Today the explanation of a
   biological function seems incomplete unless the shape of the
   biomolecules involved is included in the description. In spite of its
   relevance and importance, biomolecular structure modeling remains one
   of the most complex and challenging tasks in molecular biology. One
   technique used to meet this challenge is homology modeling.
   Homology modeling describes an extended collection of techniques with
   the goal of predicting the 3D details of biomolecules of unknown
   structure, relying heavily on resources such as pattern-to-function
   relationship predictors and sequence-to-structure determination
   predictions. Thus, homology modeling techniques are directly impacted
   by the current explosion in sequence and structure databases.
   The studies carried out in the past ten years have resulted in a wealth
   of information both at the sequence and structural levels. As the
   Protein Data Bank (PDB) readily approaches 10,000 structures, it has
   become evident that the number of 3D arrangements used in naturally
   occurring proteins is rather limited. Even though many new structures
   are being added to the databank, the number of different structural
   motifs in the database is not increasing at the same rate. This
   limitation of structural motifs means that each motif is being
   repeatedly sampled in the structural databases. The use of more
   reliable sequence alignment and 3D-to-sequence alignment techniques is
   opening the door to the possible prediction of partial structural
   motifs with a high degree of certainty. The combination of
   bioinformatics techniques with state-of-the-art modeling tools is
   potentially one of the most exciting developments in recent years in
   the area of biomolecular structure studies.
   Some three dimensional information is necessarily lost in the process
   of 3D-to-sequence alignment, however. This loss of information
   frequently results in errors in the final model. To overcome some of
   these difficulties we have developed a series of techniques that map 3D
   to 3D information directly. One of these techniques is based on the
   molecular replacement strategy frequently used in X-ray crystallography
   to overcome the crystallography phasing problem. The 3D coordinates of
   a molecule of similar composition to that structure which is being
   solved is used as a probe to find the placement of the new structure in
   the crystal unit cell. From this initial borrowed model, a new
   structure is refined. In a novel approach to the homology modeling
   problem we have shown that this crystallographic technique can be
   reverted; starting from a known structure, the 3D model of a protein of
   known sequence and unknown structure can be built.
   The technique is based on the same assumption used in X-ray
   crystallography -- that at low enough resolution two homologous
   structures have a similar 3D structure. This technique takes advantage
   of the fastest growing segment of the Protein Data Bank. This subset of
   the Protein Data Bank contains the experimental observables used for
   the generation of the X-ray crystallography models. Ten years ago less
   than one in every ten structures in the PDB were accompanied by the
   experimental observables. Today, almost two in three structures
   deposited in the PDB contain this information. Use of the
   crystallography [cachau2.jpg] observables may offer a new venue to more
   reliable homology modeling strategies.
   In addition to an overall shape restraint, a biased molecular dynamics
   trajectory developed in our laboratory is used to add detailed
   information to the model. During the trajectory, our procedures
   introduces a subtle bias which forces the model to a conformation
   similar to that of the parent molecule. This is accomplished by using
   automatically scaled restraints during the MD trajectory. The scale
   factors are determined as a function of the agreement of the modeled
   structure with the parent one, thus preserving as much of the initial
   model as possible.
   These techniques help us identify structure-activity relationships in
   large complex systems like the homodimers of human Glutathione
   transferases of the Mu class (Figure F-2), Placitaxel, heat shock
   proteins, and a number of other targets including membrane proteins and
   aspartic proteases. These methods are also being applied to the initial
   stages of protein structure refinement by X-ray crystallography
   techniques.
   Benefits of Scalable Increases in Compute Power
   Although highly computationally intensive by current standards, the
   techniques developed in our laboratory have proven valuable in
   increasing the accuracy of the final models. As our understanding of
   simpler biological systems grows, it becomes evident that more accurate
   modeling protocols are needed before we can confront the intrinsic
   difficulties of highly complex systems. In order to reach this goal a
   large increase in computational power is needed. High throughput CPUs
   and large memory architectures are required to pursue complex
   self-consistent 3D modeling strategies. A two order of magnitude
   increase in computer performance will enable near optimal multiple
   sequence alignments to detect long distance homologies, identify
   hypervariable and conserved regions. This will enhance our ability to
   identify the initial secondary structure of proteins and build new
   models using the available 3D information from known structural
   databases.
