http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sec/sectdes.htm

   skip to main content

   treasury direct on the net

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

            Warning! | Upcoming Auctions | Recent Auctions: Bills
      Recent Auctions: Notes & Bonds | Secondary Market Rates | E-mail
                                   Reports


                     TreasuryDirect Electronic Services

   BULLETINS:

   If you have tax questions, we have answers!

   Treasury is suspending issuance of the 30-year bond and revising the
   security buyback program.

   Treasury is calling a 30-year bond originally set to mature in 2007.

   Welcome! If you're an existing customer, we invite you into our Virtual
   Lobby, where you can access the electronic services available for your
   account.

   To reach our Lobby doors, just click "Continue" below.

   If you're not yet a customer, learn how to become one!
   exterior of the virtual lobby
   Continue Continue       Exit Exit

   WARNING: If you fail to follow the following directions, you can
   seemingly conduct a transaction -- and even receive a confirmation
   number -- when, in fact, no transaction was processed ...
   1) Don't use your browser's "Back" or "Forward" buttons. Rather, use
   the navigation buttons near the bottom of each page.
   2) Don't bookmark a page beyond this one. If you bookmark any page
   within TreasuryDirect Electronic Services, bookmark this one.

   NOTICE: 5- and 10-year notes are reopened on a regular basis. If you
   buy or reinvest into a reopened security, you will owe accrued interest
   and possibly a premium. If an auction is a reopened auction, the
   offering announcement press release will show the accrued interest per
   $1,000. If you're using Pay Direct, we'll automatically collect the
   amount due when we collect your payment.

                                 Contact Us

                    Return to Treasury Direct Storefront

   The Treasury Department, Bureau of the Public Debt, has provided this
   online service for the exclusive use of current TreasuryDirect
   customers only.

   To maintain the privacy and security of your account information, your
   browser must support Secure Socket Layer (SSL). Please read our legal
   and privacy notices.


                          Updated December 28, 2001
                             OMB #1535-0069/0086
