http://www.ciwmb.ca.gov/help/siteinfo.htm

   Go To CIWMB Home    Search   Site Index   Contact Us   Help

Site Information and Disclaimers

   Web Access Symbol (for people with disabilities)
     * Statement of Purpose
     * Accessibility
     * Whom to Contact
     * Web Site Technical Information
     * Disclaimers
     * External Links Policy
     * Information Collection Policies
     * Copyright Information

   Internet Content Rating Association logo

  Statement of Purpose

   The California Integrated Waste Management Board (CIWMB) maintains this
   Web site to enhance public access to information and services provided
   by the Board.

   The CIWMB's goals for the Web site include:
     * Provide timely and convenient access to Board publications and
       information about all of the Board's programs.
     * Reduce waste generation and increase the productivity and
       effectiveness of Board staff through electronic dissemination of
       Board documents and other information.
     * Through the use of external links, provide the Board's Web site
       users with convenient access to other resources available on the
       Internet.
     * Make effective use of current and evolving Internet technologies to
       maximize benefits to the Board's clients and help California
       achieve 50 percent diversion of its waste from landfills.
     * Provide an archive of past program activities for the use of the
       public and CIWMB staff.

  Accessibility

   Web Access Symbol (for people with disabilities) This site includes
   accessibility features to accommodate the needs of disabled users. If
   you need information about these features or have suggestions, please
   contact the Public Affairs Office at (916) 341-6300.

   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Statement
   The California Integrated Waste Management Board (CIWMB) does not
   discriminate on the basis of disability in access to its programs.
   Persons with hearing impairments can reach the CIWMB through the
   California Relay Service, 1-800-735-2929.

  Whom to Contact

   Questions about the content of a specific portion of the CIWMB Web site
   should be referred to the contact listed in the footer of that page.

   Questions about the general content of the CIWMB Web site should be
   directed to the Public Affairs Office at (916) 341-6300.

   Questions about the technical aspects of the site should be e-mailed to
   the CIWMB Webmaster.

  Disclaimers

   Content and Liability Disclaimer
   The California Integrated Waste Management Board shall not be
   responsible for any errors or omissions contained at this Web site, and
   reserves the right to make changes without notice. Accordingly, all
   CIWMB and any third party information is provided "AS IS."  The CIWMB
   provides no warranty, either expressed or implied, as the accuracy,
   reliability, or completeness of furnished data.  If you find any errors
   or omissions, we encourage you to report them to the contact listed in
   the footer of that Web page.

   THE CIWMB DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THE INFORMATION
   PROVIDED, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF PROPRIETARY
   RIGHTS.

   In no event shall the CIWMB be liable for any damages whatsoever, and
   in particular the CIWMB shall not be liable for special, indirect,
   consequential, or incidental damages, or damages for lost profits, loss
   of revenue, or loss of use, arising out of or related to the CIWMB web
   site or the information contained in it, whether such damages arise in
   contract, negligence, tort, under statute, in equity, at law or
   otherwise.

   Indemnification
   User agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the California
   Integrated Waste Management Board and its respective directors,
   officers, employees, and agents from and against all claims and
   expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising out of the use of the
   CIWMB Web site.

   Disclaimer of Endorsement
   Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or
   service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not
   constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the
   State of California or the Integrated Waste Management Board.

   Disclaimer of Duty to Continue Provision of the Data
   Due to the dynamic nature of the Internet, resources that are free and
   publicly available one day may require a fee or restricted access the
   next, and the location of items may change as menus, home pages, and
   files are reorganized. User expressly agrees that use of California
   Integrated Waste Management Board's web site is at the user's sole
   risk. Neither the California Integrated Waste Management Board nor any
   of its respective employees warrant that the service will be
   uninterrupted or error free.

   Feedback Information
   Any information provided to the CIWMB in connection with the CIWMB Web
   site shall be provided by the submitter and received by the CIWMB on a
   nonconfidential basis. The CIWMB shall be free to use such information
   on an unrestricted basis.

  External Links Policy

   External Web Sites Linking to This Web Site
   Other Web sites are invited to include links to the Board's Web
   site. While we appreciate it if you let us know
   (webmaster@ciwmb.ca.gov) who you are and what part of our site you are
   linking to, permission is not required. If you want to use our logo
   when you link to us, please use the gif (1 KB) located at
   www.ciwmb.ca.gov/Gallery/CIWMBLogos/ and do not alter it in any way.

   Links to External Web Sites
   The California Integrated Waste Management Board is a public agency of
   the State of California. As such, the Board must avoid any impropriety,
   or appearance of impropriety, in terms of the information or external
   links available on its Web site.

   The CIWMB may, at its discretion, create links to other Web sites that
   meet the following criteria.
    1. The external link will assist the CIWMB in fulfilling its mission.
    2. The external link will provide information of value to CIWMB
       customers.
    3. The organization being linked to is not engaged in any legal or
       enforcement proceedings with the CIWMB.
    4. The external Web site is managed in a professional manner (i.e.,
       fully operational and available most of the time, etc.).
    5. If the external Web site is a commercial site, the site owner is
       either an active partner in one of the Board's programs, or
       supplies information or products that support the principles of
       integrated waste management.
    6. The external Web site does not contain information that would
       offend common standards of decency and propriety.

   The Board will remove any external link that does not continue to meet
   these criteria.

   External links do not imply any State of California or California
   Integrated Waste Management Board endorsement of the opinions or ideas
   expressed therein, or guarantee the validity of the information
   provided. The user specifically acknowledges the CIWMB is not liable
   for the defamatory, offensive, or illegal conduct of other users,
   links, or third parties and that the risk of injury from the foregoing
   rests entirely with the user.

   The Board reserves the right to modify these criteria and add/delete
   links based upon the modification at any time and without notice.

  Information Collection Policies

   Some pages on this site collect information directly from individuals
   who volunteer to use our services. Collection of this information is
   required to deliver the specific services, but use of these services is
   voluntary.

   If you do nothing during your visit to the Web site but browse or
   download information, some pages may automatically collect and store
   the following information about your visit:
    1. The Internet Protocol Address and domain name used, but not the
       e-mail address. The Internet Protocol Address is a numerical
       identifier assigned either to your Internet service provider or
       directly to your computer. We use the Internet Protocol Address to
       direct Internet traffic to you and generate statistics used in the
       management of this site.
    2. The type of browser and operating system you used.
    3. The date and time you visited this site.
    4. The Web pages or services you accessed at this site.
    5. The Web site you visited prior to coming to this Web site.
    6. The Web site you visit as you leave this Web site.
    7. If you downloaded a form, the form that was downloaded.

   The information we automatically collect or store is used to improve
   the content of our web services and to help us understand how people
   are using our services. This information does not identify you
   personally and is used for gathering Web site statistics. The
   information we automatically collect and store in our logs about your
   visit helps us to analyze our Web site to continually improve the value
   of the materials available. Our Web site logs do not identify a visitor
   by personal information, and we make no attempt to link other web sites
   with the individuals that browse this Web site.

   Government Code § 11015.5.(a)(6) prohibits all Sate agencies from
   distributing or selling any electronically collected personal
   information, as defined above, about users to any third party without
   the permission of the user. The State does not sell any "electronically
   collected personal information." Any distribution of "electronically
   collected personal information" will be solely for the purposes for
   which it was provided to us.

   The State may provide or distribute certain lists and statistical
   reports of regulatory information as provided by law, but no personal
   information is sold or distributed, and all relevant legal protections
   still apply to the State's Web sites.

   Cookies
   A cookie is a piece of data stored on the users hard drive containing
   information about the user.  Usage of a cookie is normally not linked
   to any personally identifiable information while on this site. In a few
   cases, some pages do make use of cookies for personal identification,
   but users of these pages are advised of the usage and volunteer the
   identification information.

   Download the latest browser versions here:

          Get Microsoft Internet Explorer        Get NetScape Navigator

   Last updated: October 01, 2001
     __________________________________________________________________

   Help http://www.ciwmb.ca.gov/Help/
   CIWMB Webmaster: webmaster@ciwmb.ca.gov  (916) 341-6141
   © 1995, 2001 California Integrated Waste Management Board. All rights
   reserved.
