http://www.nimh.nih.gov/wmhc/highlights.cfm

   Picture of the NIMH logo

                            NIMH Research On Women´s Mental Health: Highlights
                            FY 1999-FY 2000

                            [bluebox.gif]

   Table of Contents

      Executive Summary
      Research Accomplishments
          Mood Disorders
          Anxiety Disorders
          Eating Disorders
          Schizophrenia
          NIMH Phase III Clinical Trials
          Services Research
          Other Mental Disorders And Health Conditions
          Women And AIDS
      NIMH Initiatives And Activities Related To Women's Mental Health
          Program Announcements
          Publications, Workshops, And Symposia
          NIMH Communications Program Activities
        __________________________________________________________________

   Executive Summary

      Mental disorders affect women and men almost equally. But certain
      disorders, such as major depression and dysthymia (a less severe but
      often more chronic form of depression), affect women much more than
      men. For example, an estimated 12% of U.S. women, in contrast to 6.6%
      of men, will experience a depressive disorder during a one-year period.
      Anxiety disorders affect approximately 2-3 times as many women as men.
      The eating disorders anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa also occur
      more frequently in women; together they affect up to 2% of adolescent
      girls and young women, and the prevalence of both is increasing. Like
      mood disorders, eating disorders can be life-threatening; recovery is
      slow, and relapse is common. Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
      (manic-depressive illness) are also marked by gender differences in age
      of onset, pattern of symptoms, treatment response, and natural course,
      but not in prevalence.

      Through its research programs in behavioral science, neuroscience, and
      clinical science, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) seeks
      to understand the many effects of gender-related variables on mental
      disorders and to translate research findings into improved diagnosis,
      treatment, prevention, and public health.

      The NIMH behavioral science research program seeks to identify
      developmental, social, and environmental contributions to mental
      illness and health. Males and females are generally exposed to
      different environmental and developmental stressors. For example,
      females are more likely than males to be victims of childhood sexual
      abuse, domestic violence, and rape. They are also reared to respond to
      different norms of behavior. Understanding how these variables
      translate into gender differences in disorders is an important goal of
      behavioral science research.

      Gender differences and women's mental health issues are especially
      important to the NIMH Clinical and Intervention Research program. Women
      are more likely than men to seek treatment for mental disorders, both
      in specialty and primary care settings. Unipolar major depression is
      the leading cause of disability (measured in disability-adjusted life
      years, or DALYs) worldwide for females over age 5, and it is primarily
      a disorder of women of childbearing age. Despite this, little is known
      specifically about the safety and effectiveness of different treatments
      for depression during pregnancy and lactation. NIMH is funding studies
      examining how and when mental disorders occur during reproductive
      transitions, and which treatments may be especially appropriate for
      women during their reproductive years.

      NIMH neuroscience research that examines gender differences in brain
      and behavior promises to enrich understanding of normal and
      psychopathological development. Research on how sex steroids affect
      specific brain regions as well as the functional links between the
      hypothalamus, the pituitary, and the adrenal glands (known as the HPA
      axis) is increasing understanding of how hormonal factors may
      predispose women to mood and anxiety disorders.

      NIMH highlights scientific and public health issues in women's mental
      health through grants programs, conferences, program announcements, and
      publications, and through the efforts of the NIMH Women's Mental Health
      Program and the Women's Mental Health Consortium. The Program
      coordinates NIMH research on women's mental health through the
      Consortium, which is comprised of representatives from NIMH research,
      policy, and information components. The Consortium promotes research
      that takes into account gender differences in mental disorders and
      their treatments and seeks to encourage public policy reflecting the
      results of this research, to the benefit of both women and men. It
      furthers the study of mental health throughout the female life span to
      improve the health and life quality of girls and women directly or
      indirectly affected by mental illness. Three strategies are used to
      accomplish these objectives: 1) promoting multidisciplinary,
      multimethod approaches to basic and applied biomedical and behavioral
      research on gender differences in the etiology, course, and outcome of
      mental illness; 2) encouraging rapid translation of basic and clinical
      research knowledge into prevention, treatment, and services; and 3)
      assessing research training needs throughout the United States.

      These many efforts bore fruit in 1999 and 2000, as indicated by the
      number, diversity, and quality of relevant research investigations. The
      following report highlights scientific accomplishments from NIMH
      research on mood, anxiety, and eating disorders; on schizophrenia; and
      on AIDS and other disorders. It also summarizes recent NIMH research
      initiatives, meetings, and publications, as well as communications
      activities related to women's mental health.
        __________________________________________________________________

   Research Accomplishments

   Mood Disorders

      NIMH research is determining the causes, improving the treatments, and
      developing preventive strategies for all forms of mood disorders in
      women. The Global Burden of Disease study
      (http://www.nimh.nih.gov/publicat/burden.cfm or
      http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/organizations/bdu/gbdmain.htm) notes that
      the mood disorders—major depression, dysthymia, and bipolar
      disorderare major causes of disability in women. In addition, mood
      disorders related to reproduction, such as premenstrual dysphoric
      disorder and postpartum and perimenopausal depression can cause
      significant functional impairment in women. Genetic, hormonal, life
      stress and other psychosocial factors all appear to play a part in the
      origins and course of mood disorders. Below are some recent highlights
      of NIMH-supported clinical and basic findings on mood disorders in
      women.

      Additionally, many studies have revealed that depression occurs
      frequently in women during pregnancy and immediately following
      childbirth. In addition to the risks depression poses to their own
      health, women with pregnancy and postpartum depression face increased
      risk of dissatisfaction with their partner relationship, and their
      children may suffer lags in development. Despite the efficacy of
      antidepressant and other medications, these treatments present
      difficult risk/benefit issues to pregnant women and mothers who choose
      to breast-feed their infants. Thus, in addition to basic and clinical
      research related to pharmacological treatments for pregnant women with
      mental disorders (particularly depression), NIMH funds research related
      to nonpharmacological treatments for such women.

      Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is an effective treatment for
      postpartum depression. A study assessing how IPT (a short-term
      treatment focused on improving interpersonal relationships and
      communication skills) affected postpartum depressed mothers found that
      women receiving the therapy experienced a 55% reduction in symptom
      level compared with a 17% symptom level reduction in a wait-list
      control group. Nonetheless, treated women experienced significant
      levels of symptoms during the follow-up period, suggesting that levels
      of relapse and recurrence in such women are comparable to depressed
      patients with episodes outside of the postpartum period. These findings
      also suggest the need to explore maintenance strategies to keep women
      well after initial treatment.

      O'Hara MW, Stuart S, Gorman LL, Wenzel A. Efficacy of interpersonal
      psychotherapy for postpartum depression. Archives of General Psychiatry
      2000; 57(11): 1039–1045.

      Research is exploring cognitive-behavioral therapy as a way to prevent
      full-blown depression in pregnant/lactating women with depressive
      symptoms. Given the limited number of completely effective treatments
      for depressed pregnant or lactating women, research efforts are
      underway to prevent maternal depression before it becomes disabling.
      Two recently funded studies are focusing on ethnic minority women who
      are pregnant, or have recently delivered. One is testing an adaptation
      of cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT, a treatment focused on modifying
      patterns of thinking and behavior) to reduce depressive symptoms and
      prevent major depression during pregnancy and after delivery in
      Hispanic women. The second study also focuses on reducing depression
      risk during pregnancy with CBT, and includes improving parenting skills
      in Hispanic and African American women.

      Luis Zayas, principal investigator. Reducing Perinatal Depression and
      Enhancing Parenting. Grant # MH-57936-04.
      Ricardo Munoz, principal investigator. Preventive Intervention
      Development: Mamas y Bebes. Grant # MH-59605-02.

      The postpartum period brings heightened risk of bipolar
      relapse—especially in women who discontinue lithium during pregnancy.
      Women taking lithium to prevent a recurrence of bipolar illness often
      discontinue treatment when they are pregnant. But how does this affect
      their chances of becoming ill again? In a recent study, researchers
      compared recurrence rates after discontinuing lithium for women with
      bipolar disorder during 40 weeks of pregnancy and 24 postpartum weeks
      or during an equivalent period of 64 weeks for nonpregnant subjects.
      Recurrence rates did not differ for pregnant and nonpregnant women for
      the initial 40 weeks after discontinuing lithium, but they were
      approximately three times greater during weeks 41-64 for the pregnant
      subjects. This finding suggests that the postpartum period specifically
      presents an elevated risk of relapse for women with bipolar disorder
      who discontinue lithium maintenance therapy.

      Viguera AC, Nonacs R, Cohen LS, Tondo L, Murray A, Baldessarini RJ.
      Risk of recurrence of bipolar disorder in pregnant and nonpregnant
      women after discontinuing lithium maintenance. American Journal of
      Psychiatry 2000; 15: 179–184.

      Estrogen affects brain response to commonly prescribed antidepressant
      medications. Many widely used antidepressant medications, including the
      selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), increase the
      availability of the neurotransmitter serotonin in the brain. Animal
      research has revealed that the reproductive hormone estrogen modulates
      the availability of serotonin in different ways during various phases
      of the reproductive cycle. Findings such as these may shed light on how
      changes in circulating sex steroids affect serotonin levels and
      antidepressant drug responses in women with mood disorders.

      Maswood S, Truitt W, Hotema M, Caldarola-Pastuszka M, Uphouse I.
      Estrous cycle modulation of extracellular serotonin in mediobasal
      hypothalamus: role of the serotonin transporter and terminal
      autoreceptors. Brain Research 1999; 831: 146–154.

      For women with depression around time of menopause, estrogen may be an
      alternative to traditional antidepressants. NIMH intramural scientists
      conducted the first controlled study of estrogen's effects on mood in
      women with depression around the time of menopause. A 3- to 6-week
      trial of estrogen was found to be more effective than placebo in
      reducing symptoms. Estrogen significantly boosted mood in 80 percent of
      depressed women (vs. 20 percent of those who received a placebo),
      independent of its effect on hot flushes. Other depression symptoms
      that improved with the hormone were early morning awakening, loss of
      enjoyment, sadness, and irritability. This level of relief, and the 3-
      to 6-week period required to achieve a therapeutic effect, were
      comparable to effects seen with antidepressant drugs.

      Schmidt PJ, Nieman L, Danaceau MA, Tobin MB, Roca CA, Murphy JH,
      Rubinow DR. Estrogen replacement in perimenopause-related depression: A
      preliminary report. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2000;
      183(2): 414–420.

      Reproductive hormones and stress hormones are linked to depression in
      women. NIMH studies have investigated the role of the sex hormone
      estradiol or the stress hormones ACTH and cortisol in women's risk for
      depression and anxiety. One study found that estradiol levels were
      lower in depressed women than in non-depressed women, but levels of
      other reproductive hormones were normal. Another study found that women
      with anxiety and depression who also reported histories of childhood
      abuse had high levels of ACTH and cortisol.

      Young EA, Midgley AR, Carlson NE, Brown MB. Alteration in the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis in depressed women. Archives of
      General Psychiatry 2000; 57: 1157–1162.

      Gender differences in stress pathways may have implications for
      treating depression. NIMH investigators have shown that the brain's
      stress pathways (the HPA axis) are generally more sensitive to stress
      hormones in normal men than in normal women. However, this effect
      reverses with age: older women have a higher HPA stress response than
      men of the same age. This finding suggests that despite their elevated
      rates of depression, pre-menopausal women may have protective stress
      adaptive mechanisms that depend on the body's natural estrogens. It
      also has implications for treating depression because at core this
      disease is thought to involve alterations in the brain's stress
      adaptive mechanisms. This potential protective phenomenon may provide
      an avenue for developing new treatments for depression in both sexes
      across the life span.

      Rubin RT, Sekula LK, O'Toole S, Rhodes ME, Czambel RK.
      Pituitary-adrenal cortical responses to low-dose physostigmine and
      arginine vasopressin administration in normal women and men.
      Neuropsychopharmacology 1999; 20: 434–446.

      Women are at elevated risk for depression in young adulthood. A new
      study of young women during the 5-year transition from high school to
      early adulthood found that a substantial proportion experienced one or
      more episodes of major depressive disorder (MDD) during the study
      period. The risk that depression would recur was substantial for all
      the women, particularly those whose illness began relatively
      early—prior to their senior year in high school. Women who had
      experienced psychiatric disorders other than depression also were more
      likely to have depressive episodes during the post-high school period.
      Substance abuse disorders (SUD) affected 9.5 percent of the women
      during the 5-year period. MDD and SUD co-occurred frequently during the
      adolescent and early adult years. People with SUD had an increased risk
      of MDD over time, but the reverse was not true. Even after controlling
      for the effects of MDD on social adjustment, SUD was associated with
      significantly impaired school functioning.

      Rao U, Hammen C, Daley SE. Continuity of depression during the
      transition to adulthood: A 5-year longitudinal study of young women.
      Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
      1999; 38: 908–915.
      Rao U, Daley SE, Hammen C. Relationship between depression and
      substance use disorders in adolescent women during the transition to
      adulthood. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent
      Psychiatry 2000; 39: 215–222.

   Anxiety Disorders

      Most anxiety disorders, including panic disorder, phobias,
      obsessive-compulsive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), affect twice as many women as
      men. These disorders are often co-morbid with the mood disorders, and
      like the mood disorders, they have relatively early onset. Below are
      highlights of NIMH 1999-2000 research into these common and often
      disabling disorders.

      Childhood abuse may alter brain function in women with PTSD. Women who
      are sexually abused as children can develop extreme and prolonged
      anxiety with repeated flashbacks of the events, a condition known as
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). One NIMH-funded study
      demonstrated that these women have abnormal blood flow to the
      hippocampus, a brain region associated with learning and memory,
      processing of emotions, and visual imagery. Related to this finding,
      animal studies have shown that stress can damage brain cells in the
      hippocampus.

      Bremner JD, Narayan M, Staib LH, Southwick SM, McGlashan T, Charney DS.
      Neural correlates of memories of childhood sexual abuse in women and
      without posttraumatic stress disorder. American Journal of Psychiatry
      1999; 156: 1787–1795.

      Stressful events elicit different hormones and learning experiences in
      female vs. male rats. Researchers found that in female rats, stressful
      events raise levels of the ovarian steroid hormone estradiol and impair
      associative learning. In male rats, by contrast, similar stressful
      events result in elevations of adrenal steroids and enhanced learning.
      These distinct hormonal responses to stress in female vs. male rats and
      the associated differences in learning rates suggest that the brain
      mechanisms underlying some forms of learning may differ in females and
      males.

      Shors TJ, Miesegaes G, Beylin A, Ahao M, Rydel T, Gould E. Neurogenesis
      in the adult is involved in the formation of trace memories. Nature
      2001; 410: 372–376.

      Men and women may have different behavioral and neuroendocrine
      responses to stress. Other NIMH-supported researchers have theorized
      that females and males respond differently to stressful situations. The
      "fight-or-flight," response—widely regarded as a prototype of a stress
      response—has been disproportionately based on studies of males, the
      researchers note. They identified a female stress response pattern of
      "tend-and-befriend," and suggest that the pattern—involving nurturing
      and protective behaviors—may have evolved to protect offspring from
      harm. Animal studies provide support for the proposal that these
      responses depend in part on the hormones oxytocin and estrogen as well
      as the brain's own opiates to reduce responses to stress in the
      sympathetic nervous system and the HPA axis.

      Taylor SE, Klein LC, Lewis BP, Gruenewald TL. Gurung RAR, Updegraff JA.
      Biobehavioral responses to stress in females: Tend-and-befriend, not
      fight-or-flight. Psychological Review 2000; 107(3): 411–429.

      Women are at greater risk for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      than men. In a large community sample, researchers found that while the
      overall risk of developing PTSD after exposure to a trauma was 9%, the
      risk was more than twice as great for women (13%) as for men (6%). The
      gender disparity in PTSD remained even when controlling for the type of
      trauma experienced. Exposure to multiple traumas and experiencing
      interpersonal violence as a child also placed both women and men at
      increased risk for PTSD, but women's greater exposure to sexual
      violence may contribute to the gender disparity in rates of PTSD.

      Breslau N, Chilcoat HD, Kessler RC, Davis GC. Previous exposure to
      trauma and PTSD effects of subsequent trauma: Results from the Detroit
      Area Survey of Trauma. American Journal of Psychiatry 1999; 156:
      902–907.
      Breslau N, Kessler RC, Chilcoat, HD, Schulz, LR, Davis, GC, Andreski P.
      Trauma and posttraumatic stress disorder in the community: The 1996
      Detroit Area Survey of Trauma. Archives of General Psychiatry 1996; 55:
      626–632.

   Eating Disorders

      Eating disorders represent a significant public health problem for
      women in the United States and other Westernized countries. They affect
      8 to 10 times more women than men. Women with these disorders have a
      psychological obsession with food and body image. The most common forms
      of eating disorders are anorexia nervosa (self-starvation) and bulimia
      nervosa (binge eating and/or purging). The eating disorders, which can
      be very functionally disabling, typically begin in adolescence to young
      adulthood. Anorexia affects an estimated 1% of adolescent girls and
      young women, and bulimia nervosa an estimated 1-3%.

      Eating disorders form distinctive symptom clusters with different risk
      factors and heritability. Early results in a study designed to
      determine the genetic and diagnostic predictors of eating disorders
      indicate that the disordered eating symptoms of anorexia nervosa,
      bulimia nervosa, and binge eating each form distinctive natural
      clusters that include subclinical conditions. The disorders'
      heritability and the subjects' age cohort also influenced individuals'
      estimates of their current body size, their desired body size, and
      their body dissatisfaction.

      Bulik, CM, Sullivan PF, Kendler KS. An empirical study of the
      classification of eating disorders. American Journal of Psychiatry
      2000; 157(6): 886–895.

      Brain serotonin may be linked to eating disorders in women. Evidence
      from NIMH-funded studies suggests that a key brain transmitter system,
      serotonin, may be altered in women with anorexia nervosa and bulimia,
      both when they are ill and after recovery. Using positron emission
      tomography (PET) scanning, NIMH investigators are exploring whether
      brain receptors for serotonin function abnormally in women with bulimia
      and anorexia. Understanding biologic vulnerabilities such as serotonin
      disturbance will contribute to developing treatments for these often
      chronic and deadly disorders. These studies will also clarify the role
      of serotonin in complex behaviors.

      Kaye WH, Grendall K, Strober M. Serotonin neuronal function and SSRI
      treatment in anorexia and bulimia nervosa. Biological Psychiatry 1998;
      44: 825–838.

      Young black and white women differ in eating disorders risk. To test
      the belief that eating disorders are more frequent among white than
      black women, 1628 black women and 5741 white women were surveyed by
      telephone to identify the presence of binge eating and extreme
      weight-control behaviors, such as vomiting, laxative or diuretic abuse,
      or fasting. The study also examined racial differences in two important
      clinical correlates of recurrent binge eating: obesity and psychiatric
      distress. Comparable numbers of black women and white women reported
      binge eating at least once during the preceding three months. However,
      significantly more black women than white women reported recurrent
      binge eating, which indicates a more clinically severe eating disorder.
      Black women were also significantly more likely to report fasting,
      laxative abuse, or diuretic abuse. Regardless of race, women with
      recurrent binge eating disorder reported significantly more psychiatric
      symptoms than did control subjects and were more likely to be
      overweight. These results challenge the widely held view that black
      women are immune to developing eating disorders and indicate the
      potential for correlated physical and mental health problems.

      Striegel-Moore RH, Schreiber GB, Lo A, Crawford P, Obarzanek E, Rodin
      J. Eating disorder symptoms in a cohort of 11- to 16-year old black and
      white girls: The NHLBI Growth and Health Study. International Journal
      of Eating Disorders 2000; 27: 49–66.

   Schizophrenia

      Schizophrenia is the most chronic and disabling of the mental
      disorders. People with this disorder experience hallucinations,
      delusions, disordered thought processes, and other abnormal behaviors.
      Usually, psychotic symptoms first appear in the late teens or early
      twenties. Although schizophrenia affects men and women equally, there
      are gender differences in age of onset, pattern of symptoms, treatment
      response, and natural course of the disease. Women appear to have
      protective factors against poor cognitive and psychosocial outcomes in
      schizophrenia, which are more characteristic of men.

      The size of a language-related brain area differs in men and women with
      schizophrenia. Autopsy and brain-imaging studies often reveal
      abnormalities in specific brain regions of people with schizophrenia,
      although there is some variability in which areas are found to be
      abnormal. NIMH-sponsored researchers have found a greater size
      reduction in the left inferior parietal lobe of men with schizophrenia
      than among women with the same disease. This brain area is thought to
      be involved in language, but the clinical significance of these gender
      differences in schizophrenia remains to be further studied.

      Frederikse M, Lu A, Aylward E, Barta P, Sharma T, Pearlson G. Sex
      differences in inferior parietal lobule volume in schizophrenia.
      American Journal of Psychiatry 2000; 157: 422–427.

      Sex steroids influence neurotensin neurotransmission in animals.
      Studies of people with schizophrenia have revealed decreased levels of
      a brain chemical messenger known as neurotensin, which become
      normalized when they receive an antipsychotic drug such as haloperidol.
      Studies in rats have demonstrated similar neurotensin-increasing
      effects of haloperidol. They have also revealed gender differences in
      neurotensin levels, both in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and in
      various brain areas: prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus,
      and substantia nigra. Levels of both neurotensin and messenger RNA
      varied significantly across the breeding cycle in females. These
      findings suggest important mechanisms of interaction between sex
      steroids and neurotransmitters that may contribute to new treatments
      for schizophrenia.

      Kinkead B, Lorch SM, Owens MJ, Nemeroff CB. Sex- and estrous
      cycle-related differences in the effects of acute antipsychotic drug
      administration on neurotensin-containing neurons in the rat brain.
      Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics 2000; 295:
      205–211.

      Maternal exposure to respiratory infection increases risk for later
      schizophrenia. In a study examining the prenatal determinants of
      schizophrenia in a large birth cohort, investigators found that
      second-trimester exposure to respiratory infections was associated with
      a significantly increased risk of schizophrenia spectrum disorders
      (SSD). This was so even after adjusting for the mother's smoking,
      education, and race. These findings support and extend previous
      research suggesting that respiratory infections during this period of
      pregnancy are risk factors for SSD. They suggest as well that public
      health measures that prevent or treat maternal respiratory infections
      during the second trimester could lead to a reduction in SSD risk among
      offspring.

      Brown AS, Schaefer CA, Wyatt RJ, Goetz R, Begg MD, Gorman JM, Susser
      ES. Maternal exposure to respiratory infections and adult schizophrenia
      disorders: A prospective birth cohort study. Schizophrenia Bulletin
      2000; 26(2): 287–295.

      Birth complications related to impaired circulation increase risk of
      psychotic disorders. Investigators evaluated 693 young adult men and
      women born to a community sample of women between 1959 and 1966 to
      evaluate how birth complications related to ischemia (impaired
      circulation) affected the children's risk for future psychotic and mood
      disorders. Compared to individuals with no such birth complications,
      those with complications were at elevated risk for developing a
      psychotic disorder (6.9% versus 1.4%). When mood disorders were
      excluded from the group of psychotic diagnoses, the risk of
      schizophrenia and other non-affective psychoses associated with hypoxia
      (decreased oxygen levels) and ischemia-related complications was
      strikingly elevated, (5.75% versus 0.39% in those with no relevant
      complications). Risk of non-psychotic mood disorders was not related to
      ischemia-related birth complications.

      Zomberg GL, Buka SL, Tsuang MT. Hypoxic-ischemia-related fetal/neonatal
      complications and risk of schizophrenia and other nonaffective
      psychoses: A 19-year longitudinal study. American Journal of Psychiatry
      2000; 157(2): 196–202.

   NIMH Phase III Clinical Trials

      Phase III clinical trials are typically large-scale intervention
      studies undertaken to affect clinical practice and health care policy.
      NIH policy on Phase III trials requires that they be designed to permit
      valid analysis of results to determine the existence of gender
      differences in outcome. Below are results of four NIMH Phase III
      trials. The first two underscore the importance of gender comparisons,
      while the third and fourth reveal the unique needs of women.

      Psychotropic medications and/or combined treatments are effective
      interventions for ADHD symptoms in elementary school-aged girls. An
      NIMH multi-site, multi-modal treatment study assessed the effectiveness
      of different treatment strategies in children with ADHD, including 114
      girls aged 7-9 years. The inclusion of girls in this study represented
      the field's largest examination of differential treatment outcomes for
      boys versus girls with ADHD. Children were randomly assigned to one of
      four 14-month conditions: monthly medication management with supportive
      care; intensive behavioral treatment; both treatments combined; or
      assessment and referral back to the community providers. For most ADHD
      symptoms, children in the combined treatment and medication management
      groups showed significantly greater improvement than those given
      intensive behavioral treatment or community care. Boys' and girls'
      responses to treatment differed in only one of a possible 14 outcome
      measures, indicating similar study results in male and female
      participants.

      The MTA Cooperative Group. A 14-month randomized clinical trial of
      treatment strategies for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder
      (ADHD). Archives of General Psychiatry 1999; 56: 1073–1086.
      The MTA Cooperative Group. Moderators and mediators of treatment
      response for children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder
      (ADHD). Archives of General Psychiatry 1999; 56: 1088–1096.

      After electroconvulsive therapy, depressed women are more likely than
      men to relapse while receiving maintenance drug therapy. In a
      multi-site study, patients with depression who had successfully
      completed a course of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) were randomly
      assigned to six months of continuation treatment with the
      antidepressant nortriptyline alone, nortriptyline plus lithium, or
      placebo. Both active treatments were superior to placebo, and the
      combination treatment had the best results. However, across all
      treatment groups, women were more likely to experience early relapse
      than men. This finding, which had been observed inconsistently in
      previous studies, suggests that treatment or preventive interventions
      found to be effective in men are not necessarily equally effective in
      women; relapse prevention in women recovering from depression may
      require more aggressive management than is needed for men.

      Sackeim HA, Haskett RF, Mulsant BH, Thase ME, Mann JJ, Pettinati HM,
      Greenberg RM, Crowe RR, Cooper TB, Prudie J. Continuation
      pharmacotherapy in the prevention of relapse following
      electroconvulsive therapy: A randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2001;
      285: 1299–1307.

      A multi-site study of treatments for bipolar disorder addresses women's
      mental health needs. A large-scale effectiveness trial launched by NIMH
      over the past two years [the Systematic Treatment Enhancement Program
      for Bipolar Disorder (STEP-BD) project] seeks to provide long-term
      information on the optimal treatment of bipolar disorder for use in
      routine clinical practice. Directed by a coordinating center at
      Massachusetts General Hospital, STEP-BD is using a network of 18 sites
      around the country to enroll 5,000 individuals with bipolar disorder,
      1500 of whom will undergo randomized trials within the program. Unlike
      unipolar depression, which predominantly affects women, bipolar
      disorder affects both genders equally. But treating bipolar disorder in
      women—and especially in pregnant women—raises special issues, including
      the increased risk of relapse after delivery, the dangers to the fetus
      of the usual mood stabilizers, and the increased prevalence in women of
      some subtypes of the disorder, most notably rapid-cycling bipolar
      disorder. Three subprojects within STEP-BD are specifically targeted to
      these challenges. They include studies of the relationship between
      polycystic ovarian syndrome and valproate and other mood-stabilizer
      medications used to treat bipolar disorder; pilot investigations of the
      efficacy of omega-3 fatty acids in stabilizing the moods of women with
      bipolar disorder who are planning pregnancy; and a brain-imaging study
      examining whether brain levels of lithium predict drug response in
      women with rapid-cycling bipolar disorder.

      Hyman SE. Goals for research on bipolar disorder: The view from NIMH.
      Biological Psychiatry 2000; 48: 436–441.

      Community-level preventive interventions for HIV/AIDS are effective
      with high-risk urban women. In a randomized clinical trial, NIMH
      researchers assessed a community-level, neighborhood-based HIV
      behavior-change intervention with 690 women (predominantly black) from
      18 low-income housing developments in five US cities. The intervention
      included HIV risk-reduction workshops and community HIV-prevention
      events led by women who were popular opinion leaders. The intervention
      resulted in lowered risk behavior and increased risk-reduction
      behavior, as well as increased knowledge about HIV risk and readiness
      for partner negotiation. This study demonstrates that community-level
      intervention can reduce high-risk sexual behavior and has the potential
      for broad and cost-effective public health applications.

      Carey MP, Braaten LS, Maisto SA, Gleason JR, Forsyth AD, Durant, LE
      Jaworski, BC. Using information, motivational enhancement, and skills
      training to reduce the risk of HIV infection for low income urban
      women: A second randomized clinical trial. Health Psychology 2000;
      19(1): 3–11.

   Services Research

      NIMH services research seeks to identify and address the mental health
      needs of women in diverse service settings that include specialty
      mental health settings, general medical settings, and other service
      sites. Below are some recent highlights of NIMH-supported service
      research that are particularly relevant to the mental health of women.

      Significant unmet mental health needs of women uncovered in diverse
      health care settings. An NIMH-sponsored study found that more than 70%
      of mothers bringing a child to a child mental health clinic had
      untreated depressive and anxiety disorders themselves. Sixty percent of
      these ill women had not been diagnosed previously. In addition, most of
      the mothers did not seek treatment, and when referred for treatment,
      failed to follow through with it. Similar findings were discovered
      among women in public-sector gynecology clinics, where a recent study
      examined the mental health needs of 205 ethnically diverse, young
      women, all either uninsured or receiving public medical assistance.
      Current mental disorders were assessed through a structured interview
      using the Prime-MD, an instrument designed to diagnose mood, anxiety,
      alcohol, and eating disorders in medical patients. Any history of
      sexual or other physical assault was also recorded. The rates of
      current psychiatric disorders were found to be extremely high; for
      example, 21.5% had current major depression. Many women had experienced
      sexual trauma, and many reported behaviors that pose serious health
      risks; for example, 32% smoked and 2% used illicit drugs. Fewer than
      half, however, had access to comprehensive primary medical care.

      Carol Anderson, principal investigator. Engaging Distressed Mothers of
      Disturbed Children. Grant # MH-61712-01.

      Mental illness and substance abuse problems hamper women's
      welfare-to-work transition. Based upon a national survey, researchers
      have determined that 19 percent of welfare recipients meet diagnostic
      criteria for a disabling psychiatric disorder. About the same
      percentage reported using illicit drugs. Because of the new work
      requirements and the time-limited nature of assistance, policy makers
      often must decide what to do when welfare recipients fail to
      successfully transition from welfare to work. Renewed attention is
      being focused on participants' individual characteristics, particularly
      specific diagnoses that might reduce employability. These data indicate
      that mental and behavioral health problems could be significant
      barriers to self-sufficiency for many of these women, and that they
      will need substance abuse and/or mental health treatments.

      Jayakody R, Danziger S, Pollack H. Welfare reform, substance use, and
      mental health. Journal of Health Politics Policy and Law 2000; 25(4):
      623–651.

   Other Mental Disorders and Health Conditions

      Family risk for ADHD is comparable in boys and girls. Attention deficit
      hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is diagnosed much more frequently in boys
      than in girls, and little is known about how the disorder is
      transmitted in families of ADHD girls. A recent study addressed this
      issue by comparing 140 girls with ADHD and their close biological
      relatives, and 122 girls without the disorder and their families. As
      with relatives of ADHD boys, the relatives of ADHD girls had a
      significantly higher prevalence of ADHD themselves, as well as
      antisocial, mood, anxiety, and substance dependence disorders. However,
      antisocial disorders were less frequent in the families of ADHD girls
      than ADHD boys. Although these findings show that ADHD is transmitted
      in the families of both girls and boys with ADHD, they still leave
      unexplained the greater prevalence of ADHD among boys.

      Faraone SV, Biederman J, Mick E, Williamson S, Wilens T, Spencer T,
      Weber W, Jetton J, Kraus l, Bert J, Zallen B. Family study of girls
      with attention deficit hyperactivity. American Journal of Psychiatry
      2000; 157: 1077–1083.

      Women living with advanced breast cancer diagnoses experience high
      levels of traumatic stress symptoms. Recent studies have shown that
      past and current stressors influence mental and medical health outcomes
      in women with metastatic breast cancer. One study revealed that up to
      one-half of such women may experience clinically significant levels of
      traumatic stress symptoms related to their cancer. One-third of women
      reported high levels of "intrusion" symptoms (e.g., unbidden disturbing
      thoughts/memories about their illness and treatment), and more than
      one-quarter reported "avoidance" symptoms (e.g., trying to forget about
      the illness) in the same range. These levels are comparable to those
      seen in survivors of other traumatic stressors, such as multiple
      shootings and motor vehicle crashes. Of particular note are the
      findings of an elevated risk for both intrusion and avoidance symptoms
      for women with stressful life histories and currently aversive social
      environments. Thus, having experienced past stressors may make women
      more vulnerable to more intense distress and trauma symptoms in
      response to new stressors. These findings have implications for the
      design of support services for such women.

      Turner-Cobb JM, Sephton SE, Koopman C, Blake-Mortimer JB, Spiegel D.
      Social support and salivary cortisol in women with metastatic breast
      cancer. Psychosomatic Medicine 2000; 62: 337–345.

      Social support is linked to better neuroendocrine functioning in women
      with advanced breast cancer. A research team used a cross-sectional
      design to examine how the quality and quantity of social support is
      related to neuroendocrine function in 103 women with metastatic breast
      cancer. Mean stress hormone levels were lowest among women reporting
      greatest levels of "belonging" and tangible social support. These
      findings suggest a mediating link between social support and medical
      outcomes, and may help explain why women who received a structured,
      therapist-facilitated social-support group intervention survived longer
      than women who did not. Such group interventions have been shown to be
      an economical way to address both the mental and medical health needs
      of these women.

      Butler LD, Koopman C, Classen C, Spiegel D. Traumatic stress, life
      events, and emotional support in women with metastatic breast cancer:
      Cancer-related traumatic stress symptoms associated with past and
      current stressors. Health Psychology 1999; 18(6): 555–560.

   Women and AIDS

      Women now make up 24 percent of new AIDS cases, compared with 6.7
      percent nearly two decades ago. Equally alarming is the fact that 81
      percent of the AIDS cases in women between June 1999 and June 2000 were
      among African American and Hispanic women. A host of unique biological
      and psychosocial risk factors differentially affect prevention,
      treatment, and coping with HIV illness in women. HIV appears to be
      transmitted more efficiently from men to women than vice versa. Because
      of women's increased risk of infection, prevention programs must
      encourage women to adhere more rigorously to lowered risk behavior than
      men. Research also indicates differences in the course of HIV in women
      and men. For example, women experience more HIV-associated problems
      than men, progress to an AIDS diagnosis more quickly, and die from the
      disease sooner than men with comparable levels of virus. NIMH has
      placed a high priority on research to address HIV infection in women.
      To this end, NIMH supports research examining the mechanisms of HIV
      etiology and pathogenesis, prevention of HIV transmission, adherence to
      HIV treatment, and coping with HIV infection that are unique to women.
      A number of high-risk populations are included: minority women; women
      with serious mental illnesses; rural and urban women; women living with
      HIV/AIDS; and adolescent girls.

      Women living with HIV/AIDS report emotional growth while dealing with
      stress. To understand the coping mechanisms and skills of women living
      with HIV/AIDS, investigators examined illness-related positive change
      or stress-related growth among 54 African American, Puerto Rican, and
      non-Hispanic white HIV-infected women living in New York City. While
      these women acknowledged the negative stresses of living with HIV/AIDS,
      83% attributed at least one positive change in their lives to their
      illness experience. Domains of potential growth identified included
      health behaviors, spirituality, interpersonal relationships, view of
      the self, value of life, and career goals. The forms of growth varied
      in relation to the women's ethnic/racial background, class, and IV drug
      use history. Findings such as these provide guidance for designing
      interventions to help other women cope more effectively with their
      illness.

      Siegel K, Schrimshaw E.W. Perceiving benefits in adversity:
      stress-related growth in women living with HIV/AIDS. Social Science and
      Medicine 2000; 51: 1543–1554.

      For HIV-positive women, diagnosis and disclosure raise risk for abuse.
      In a sample of 310 HIV-positive women (94% African American) enrolled
      in a primary care clinic, 45% reported undergoing emotional, physical,
      or sexual abuse by an intimate or nonintimate partner at some time
      after learning their diagnosis; 32% of the total sample experienced
      violence both before and after their diagnosis, while 13% experienced
      it only after. For 4% of the total sample, physical abuse was directly
      attributed to disclosure. Women with a history of abuse, drug use, less
      income, or a partner with negative or unknown HIV status were at
      elevated risk for post-diagnosis abuse, as were younger women who had
      been diagnosed more than 4 years previously. Women who avoided
      disclosure for fear of violence (29%) were more likely to receive help
      with disclosure from a health care provider than women who were not
      afraid (21% vs. 10%). This study indicates the importance of screening
      for violence when working with HIV-positive women and identifying those
      who may be at risk for abuse following disclosure.

      Gielen AC, McDonnell KA, Burke JG, O'Campo P. Women's lives after an
      HIV positive diagnosis: disclosure and violence. Maternal and Child
      Health Journal 2000; 4(2): 111–120.

      New preventive interventions reduce HIV risk in high-risk women. An
      HIV/AIDS prevention program based on social learning theory and peer
      education was assessed with 280 low income, inner city black women.
      They received six sessions, followed by 3 booster sessions, which
      included learning and rehearsing behavioral skills, discussing
      high-risk behaviors, and learning risk-reduction strategies. Compared
      with a control group, women in the treatment group significantly
      increased their sense of self-efficacy, protective sexual behavior,
      condom knowledge, and their discussions with family and neighbors about
      HIV prevention. In another prevention intervention study with a similar
      target of high-risk women, a randomized clinical trial evaluated the
      impact of an HIV risk-reduction approach based on providing
      information, motivational enhancement, and skills training.
      Post-intervention and follow-up data indicated that, compared with
      matched controls, participants in the experimental intervention
      enhanced their knowledge about how to reduce risk, strengthened
      intentions to reduce their risk for HIV infection, and increased both
      partner negotiation and risk-reduction behavior.

      Carey MP, Braaten LS, Maisto, SA, Gleason JR, Forsyth AD, Durant LE,
      Jaworski BC. Using information, motivational enhancement, and skills
      training to reduce the risk of HIV infection for low-income urban
      women: A second randomized clinical trial. Health Psychology 2000;
      19(1): 3–11.
        __________________________________________________________________

   NIMH Initiatives And Activities Related To Women's Mental Health

   Program Announcements

      NIMH released a program announcement in March 2000 entitled "Women's
      Mental Health and Gender Differences Research" (PA-00-074). It called
      for studies focusing on brain and behavior, biological and behavioral
      dysregulation and adaptation to stress, epidemiology and clinical
      research, reproductive transitions, and intervention and services. Web
      address for the announcement is
      http://www.nimh.nih.gov/grants/pamenu.cfm.

      A program announcement "Mental Health Research in Eating Disorders"
      (PA-96-064) emphasizes the need for research on eating disorders at all
      levels, from fundamental studies of brain and behavior that identify
      basic mechanisms, to examinations of risk factors, to epidemiological
      and clinical investigations that help diagnose and treat the disorders
      successfully. Web address for the announcement is
      http://www.nimh.nih.gov/grants/pamenu.cfm.

      A program announcement "Research on Violence and Traumatic Stress"
      (PA-95-068) invites research on the prevalence, incidence,
      characteristics, course, and mental health consequences, etiological
      and risk factors, and correlates of violence. Intervention research is
      also encouraged to help reduce the extent and consequences of
      interpersonal violence and trauma. Web address for the announcement is
      http://www.nimh.nih.gov/grants/pamenu.cfm.

      NIMH and NIDA issued a joint program announcement "Interventions for
      Suicidal Youth" (PA-00-077). Suicide attempts are most prevalent during
      adolescence, with girls reporting higher attempt rates than boys. The
      announcement identifies the need to test the effectiveness of
      interventions for reducing suicidal behavior through a number of
      approaches, ranging from broad community-based or school-based
      prevention efforts to more targeted approaches that reduce suicidal
      behavior in youth with identified mental or substance-use disorders.
      The Web address for the announcement is
      http://www.nimh.nih.gov/grants/pamenu.cfm.

      NICHD and NIMH co-sponsored the request for applications "The Influence
      of Gender on HIV Risk" (RFA-HD-01-002) to solicit research on how
      gender influences the risk of HIV infection through sexual behaviors,
      and on how best to reduce HIV risks based in gendered expectations and
      behaviors. The Web address for this Request for Applications (RFA) is
      http://www.nimh.nih.gov/grants/rfa.cfm.

   Publications, Workshops, And Symposia

      In March 1999, NIMH and the North American Psychosocial Obstetrics and
      Gynecology Society co-sponsored a meeting on women's mental health
      issues related to reproductive transitions. As part of the meeting,
      NIMH supported a session for new investigators.

      Two NIMH-sponsored workshops on gender roles, risk, and resilience
      among women explored the relation of these factors to heterosexual
      transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
      They were held in March and November 1999.

      In collaboration with the NIH Office of Research on Women's Health
      (ORWH), NIMH staff organized a health seminar on women and mood
      disorders on December 2, 1999. The seminar included speakers addressing
      treatments for women with depression and bipolar disorder during
      pregnancy, postpartum, and during the period around menopause. On
      September 21, 2000, NIMH staff collaborated with ORWH to organize a
      seminar on the impact of stress on women, including talks on
      neuroendocrine effects of stress, cardiovascular risk and stress in
      women, workplace stress, and self-help for coping with stress.

      In April 2000, NIMH held the Prevention of Eating Disorders Roundtable
      meeting to discuss: a) the state of the art (including neuroscience) in
      understanding risk factors for eating disorders; b) the state of the
      art in effective preventive interventions for eating disorders and
      other relevant disorders (depression, substance abuse); c) challenges
      to developing prevention efforts in eating disorders; and d) next steps
      to develop safe and effective prevention interventions.

      In collaboration with the American Psychological Association, NIMH
      co-sponsored a summit meeting on women and depression at the Wye River
      Conference Center in October 2000. The meeting's goal was to develop a
      research agenda to advance knowledge of the causes, prevention, and
      treatment of depression in women.

      At the annual Society for Neuroscience meeting in New Orleans in
      November 2000, NIMH staff organized a symposium on estrogen and
      cognition highlighting recent advances in the rapid and
      gender-different effects of estrogen on cognition and brain plasticity.

      NIMH sponsors annually the research conference "The Role of Families in
      Preventing and Adapting to HIV/AIDS." The 1999 conference was held in
      Philadelphia, and the 2000 conference in Chicago. A workshop on
      conducting research with women was held at each conference, and many of
      the sessions explored the role of women in preventing the spread of
      HIV/STDs to their children.

      A recently published book, "Working with Families in the Era of AIDS,"
      edited by Drs. Willo Pequegnat and José Szapocznik, is based on
      NIMH-sponsored research conducted by respected AIDS prevention
      scientists. It is intended to provide guidance for developing
      prevention program for families at risk of HIV, as well as
      interventions for HIV-infected and HIV-affected families, most of which
      are headed by women.

   NIMH Communications Program Activities

      Communicating results of NIMH research is vital to the Nation's
      progress in treating and preventing mental disorders. The Office of
      Communications and Public Liaison (OCPL) uses several approaches to
      reach the general public with research information about women's mental
      health.

      NIMH issues many press releases to inform the media of research
      advances of particular interest to women. One such release reported on
      the use of estrogen as an alternative to traditional antidepressants
      for women who suffer depression in the early stages of menopause.
      Another press release discussed three separate research studies
      suggesting that a gene or genes on chromosome 10 may be risk factors
      for late-onset Alzheimer's disease, a disorder of great significance to
      women who live longer than men and thus are more often affected by
      late-onset Alzheimer's.

      During 1999-2000, NIMH launched the Constituency Outreach and Education
      Program, which seeks to improve diagnosis and treatment of depression,
      anxiety disorders, and other mental disorders by disseminating
      science-based information throughout the Nation and encouraging people
      with mental disorders and their families to seek help. The key elements
      of the program are 51 Outreach Partners, which are now established in
      every State and the District of Columbia, and the Education Network,
      which includes professional, consumer and advocacy organizations
      concerned primarily with mental health, as well as organizations
      involved in medicine, managed care, education, academia, and business.
      The program emphasizes the development of outreach and education
      activities and materials for ethnic and cultural minorities, children
      and youth, and older adults. NIMH provides the Outreach Partners with
      regular scientific updates, technical assistance, and opportunities for
      collaboration among groups committed to improving the Nation's mental
      health. Many materials produced by the program are made available to
      the public on the NIMH website.

      Two brochures were written during the year that address mental health
      issues found more often in women than in men; they are "Eating
      Disorders," and "Depression: What Every Women Should Know." Both of
      these publications can be found on the NIMH web site
      (http://www.nimh.nih.gov). Also found on the website is information on
      the Women's Mental Health Consortium
      (http://www.nimh.nih.gov/wmhc/index.cfm), as well as the Science on Our
      Minds article "Women Hold Up Half the Sky," which discusses both the
      prevalence of various mental disorders in women and the NIMH research
      that is addressing them. The communications office also maintains a
      ListServ of more than 125 organizations, including the Society for the
      Advancement of Women's Health Research. This ListServ has improved
      communications via electronic mail to increasingly greater numbers of
      people who periodically receive reports of NIMH research results,
      events, and news.

      If you have any scientific questions about the report, please contact:
      Mary C. Blehar, Ph.D.
      Chief, Women's Mental Health Program, OSP, OD
      National Institute of Mental Health
      301-443-2847
      E-mail: mblehar@mail.nih.gov

   Updated: November 27, 2001
   Posted: August 31, 2001

   | NIMH Home | Welcome | News and Events | Clinical Trials | Funding
   Opportunities |
   | For the Public | For Practitioners | For Researchers | Intramural
   Research |
   | Top |

   For information about NIMH and its programs, please email, write or
   phone us.

   NIMH Public Inquiries
   6001 Executive Boulevard, Rm. 8184, MSC 9663
   Bethesda, MD 20892-9663 U.S.A.
   Voice (301) 443-4513; Fax (301) 443-4279
   TTY (301) 443-8431
