http://www.fast.sdc.gsa.gov/pub/concept.pdf

   General Services Administration --- Federal Technology Service IT
   Solutions Business Line Core Business The core business of the IT
   Solutions business line is the reselling of private sector solutions
   that are obtained through the award and administration of contracts
   with the private sector. Business Goal A business goal is to provide
   the same products or services or solutions with the same level of
   service at the same price to all clients irrespective of their
   geographic location. Concept of Operations FTS is implementing a new
   concept of operations for the IT Solutions business line based on
   distinct service delivery and solutions development "centers of
   expertise." Client Support Centers (CSCs) will provide direct client
   interface and support, issue and manage task orders against contracts,
   and deliver (resell) solutions to our clients. Solutions Development
   Centers (SDCs) will award and administer IT contracts, i.e., SDCs
   develop solutions, for CSCs and other government agencies. CSCs will be
   organizationally and financially separate from any SDC to avoid a
   conflict of interest or a prejudice toward a particular contract or
   solution. Initially, there will be eleven Regional CSCs called Regional
   IT Solutions, and two National CSCs, the Office of Information Security
   (OIS) and the Federal Systems Integration and Management Center
   (FEDSIM). At present, FTS has approved four SDCs  the Federal Computer
   Acquisition Center (FEDCAC), Pacific Rim Region 9, the FAST Small
   Business SDC in Region 6, and a partnership of Regions 4 and 7. (Other
   non-GSA SDCs already exist, e.g. the Army's Ft. Huachuca, and
   GSA/non-FTS SDCs exist, e.g., FSS Multiple Award Schedules.) Benefits
   The IT Solutions concept of operations will: Eliminate the development
   of unnecessary FTS acquisition vehicles. Ensure that all new FTS
   contracts fit into an FTS strategic acquisition plan. Make all
   contracts available to all CSCs. Reduce the FTS resources devoted to
   developing and awarding new contracts. Reduce the private sector
   resources required to respond to FTS contracting initiatives. Provide
   contract options and alternatives to our clients. Establish voluntary
   sources of supply for all CSCs. Reduce dependency on single vendors or
   contracts. Maximize the number of industry partners. The new IT
   Solutions concept of operations establishes a fundamental sales vs.
   service delivery vs. solutions development construct to guide the
   operation of this business line. Organizations had been rewarded for
   selling the contracts that they had awarded and were not necessarily
   rewarded for selling the contract that best satisfied the client's
   requirements. By separating the sales/service delivery from contract
   award/solutions development, FTS will offer its clients the best
   solutions for their particular needs. Each client will now have a much
   wider-range of options and alternatives. General Services
   Administration --- Federal Technology Service General Services
   Administration --- Federal Technology Service Client Support Centers
   CSCs provide a value-added technical and acquisition service for
   Federal clients worldwide and serve as the Contracting Officer and
   Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. Clients come to FTS
   with IT problems and FTS client representatives provide private sector
   IT solutions. Alternatively, clients state their need for specific IT
   products and services, and FTS client representatives identify the
   vendor and contracting option that best fits their need. FTS awards
   task orders for clients and conducts a wide-range of pre- and post-task
   order activities including: developing statements-of-work, evaluating
   proposals, negotiating, monitoring service delivery and project
   progress, managing projects, evaluating and accepting deliverables, and
   certifying vendor invoices for payment. CSCs use a wide-range of
   contracts including: FSS's multiple award schedules (MAS); BPAs placed
   against FSS MAS; Government-wide contracts (GWACs), e.g., NIH and ITOP;
   FAST multiple award 8(a) contracts; Directed non competitive 8(a)
   definite quantity contracts; FTS awarded MAIQ and IDIQ contracts;
   Contracts awarded by other agencies on FTS's behalf, e.g. Ft Huachuca
   Directorate for Contracting and Dept of Energy's Federal Energy
   Technology Center. The eleven Regional CSCs called Regional IT
   Solutions, have a geographic orientation and focus on clients within
   their region. The National CSCs, the Federal Systems Integration and
   Management Center (FEDSIM) and the Office of Information Security
   (OIS), focus on large systems integration and management projects, and
   information security (INFOSEC) requirements, respectively. Workload A
   measure of IT Solutions' workload is revenue received from clients by
   the IT Fund as a result of FTS work including hourly labor, surcharges
   and contractor payments for ongoing projects. IT Solutions revenue grew
   by 53% to a total of $2.4 billion in FY1998. Regional CSC revenues
   increased by 50%, OIS revenues increased by 11%, and FEDSIM revenues
   increased by 83% in FY1998. I T S o l u t i o n s R e v e n u e s P a s
   t S ix F i s c a l Y e a r s M i l l i o n s $ 3 0 0 0 2 5 0 0 2 0 0 0
   1 5 0 0 1 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 F Y 9 3 F Y 9 4 F Y 9 5 F Y 9 6 F Y 9 7 F Y 9 8
   General Services Administration --- Federal Technology Service 2
   General Services Administration --- Federal Technology Service
   Solutions Development Centers There are presently three approved FTS
   SDCs and one under development: The Federal Computer Acquisition Center
   (FEDCAC) delivers full service management of large- scale, complex
   information technology acquisitions for client agencies and conducts
   full and open competitions for government-wide contracts required by
   FTS CSCs. It's achievements include the FBI's Fingerprint
   Identification System, the State Department's mainframe upgrades, the
   Agriculture Department's Forest Service Automation System, the National
   Institutes of Health's computer facilities acquisition, and the
   Department of Energy's Telecommunications Integrator Services contract.
   Other innovative contracts awarded by FEDCAC include: the Virtual Data
   Center Services contract, which provides data processing outsourcing
   services to Federal agencies, the Government-wide Business Continuity
   Contract, and the GSA Seat Management Services contract. FEDCAC
   currently administers the GWAC portion of ODIN, a NASA awarded desktop
   outsourcing contract, and the Financial Management System Software
   (FMSS) schedules. FEDCAC is currently conducting the $25 billion
   Millennia acquisition and a $500 million acquisition for the FBI. The
   Pacific Rim Region 9 SDC conducts full and open competitions for
   contracts required by FTS CSCs. It was established in FY1998, and its
   accomplishments include the $25 billion Applications `N Support for
   Widely-diverse End User Requirements (ANSWER) MAIQ contract awarded to
   10 companies in December 1998. The Region 4 and 7 partnership SDC will
   conduct full and open competitions for contracts required by FTS CSCs.
   It was established in the first quarter of FY1999. An SDC to support
   FTS's FAST Contracts will be established in Kansas City. This SDC will
   support FTS's quick, low cost buying service for IT products and
   services. It will concentrate on providing non-complex (turnkey)
   solutions. Reasons agencies support the IT Solutions business line
   Agencies support the IT Solutions business line because IT Solutions
   offers: Fast, cost-effective access to the private sector. Ease of use.
   Technical expertise in the full range of current and emerging
   technologies. Quick response from government technical and acquisition
   experts. Experienced project and financial managers. Third-party
   objectivity and independence. Excellent, innovative contracts. One-stop
   shopping. Competitive pricing. Nationwide and worldwide presence.
   Clients IT Solutions serves all branches and departments of the Federal
   Government; every executive department and branch of the military
   service; more than 75 independent agencies; Congress; and the
   Judiciary. General Services Administration --- Federal Technology
   Service 3
