http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/wid0627inda.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit Photo Gallery


             House Joins Senate in Division on E-Commerce Taxes

                          Washington Internet Daily

                                June 27, 2001

   By Patrick Ross

   Congress has 117 days to act before the moratorium on discriminatory
   Internet taxes expires, but comments by members at a House hearing on
   the topic Tuesday suggested that body was as divided as the SEenate on
   how best to proceed before the October 21 deadline.  There is near
   universal agreement that the Internet shouldn't be subject to
   discriminatory taxes and that taxes on access to the Internet are
   undesirable, but members remain divided after more than a year of
   debate on how simplification of state sales and use taxes should be
   addressed.  Rep. Cox (R-Cal.), testifying before the House Judiciary
   Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law in defense of his two
   bills to extend the moratorium, said that if Congress failed to act, "I
   assure you within a matter of days...all hell will break loose."

   "Tax collectors were looking to shake down the Net" four years ago when
   he and Sen. Wyden (D-Ore.) authored the moratorium bill, Cox said.  On
   the panel with Cox was Michigan Governor John Engler (R), representing
   the National Governors' Association, to urge state autonomy in crafting
   sales and use tax reform, as well as flexibility on access taxes. But
   Cox said "we're not worrying about state legislatures rushing out bills
   the next day" after the moratorium expires.  "But most of these things
   can be implemented by local bureaucrats," Cox warned, "re-enacting laws
   passed well before Al Gore even invented the Internet."
