http://stateaid.nysed.gov/charterQA.pdf

   QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER SCHOOLS
   PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF THE
   REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 1. What basic payments
   must a school district make to a charter school for resident pupils of
   the school district who are enrolled in the charter school? ÿ The
   statute requires that the school district pay an amount to the charter
   school for each resident pupil so enrolled that is equal to the
   approved operating expense per pupil of the public school district. The
   exact amount payable for each pupil equals the product of the approved
   operating expense per pupil and the full-time-equivalent enrollment of
   the student in the charter school. For the 2001-02 school year, the
   approved operating expense used is computed by multiplying the 1999-00
   actual approved operating expense per pupil of the district by an
   inflation factor representing the statewide increase in total approved
   operating expense for all school districts from 1998-99 to 2000-01.
   This inflation factor has been determined to be 113.3% for the 2001-02
   school year payments to charter schools. ÿ The statute also requires
   that the school district pay to the charter school any state or federal
   aid that is attributable to students with disabilities receiving
   special education services from the charter school to the extent that
   such aid is based on the enrollment of such students in the charter
   school and the special education services provided. 2. What is the
   approved operating expense per pupil value to be used by my school
   district in paying charter schools for the 2001-02 school year? ÿ The
   approved operating expense per pupil value to be used by each district
   may be found on the New York State Education Department's State Aid
   internet site at: http://stateaid.nysed.gov/, under the heading
   "Charter School Information." 3. What is the value per pupil of state
   aid that may be attributable to a pupil with a disability enrolled in
   special education programs of a charter school? ÿ This aid is called
   Public Excess Cost Aid and is calculated based on the category of
   special education services provided to the student with a disability.
   The following weightings are provided for the listed categories: 1.70
   for approved special services or programs that are provided to the
   student for 60% or more of the school day. 0.90 for approved special
   services or programs that are provided to the student for 20% or more
   of the school week or for approved special education services provided
   to the student by a special education consultant teacher. The Public
   Excess Cost Aid payable for each student equals the product of: 1
   09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER
   SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF
   THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION ¸ the pupil's
   full-time-equivalent enrollment in the charter school; ¸ the assigned
   weighting for the category of service provided; ¸ the approved
   operating expense per pupil of the public school district (but not more
   than $7,110); and ¸ the public excess cost state sharing ratio of the
   public school district which is based on the districts relative taxable
   property wealth and resident income wealth per pupil. (This ratio can
   not be less than 25% for wealthier districts and is 49% for a district
   of average wealth.) ÿ In addition, if the annual cost of the special
   education services provided to the student exceeds an amount equal to
   three times the approved operating expense per pupil of the public
   school district a High Cost Aid is payable. The High Cost Aid payable
   for each high cost student equals the product of: ¸ the amount of the
   excess; ¸ the pupils full-time-equivalent enrollment in the charter
   school; and ¸ the public excess cost state sharing ratio of the public
   school district. 4. What is the federal per pupil allocation that may
   be attributable to a pupil with a disability enrolled in a special
   education program of a charter school? ÿ The per pupil allocations
   under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Sections
   611 and 619 are available for special education programs and services.
   Section 611 funds are available for students ages 3 - 21 and Section
   619 funds are available for children ages 3 - 5. Therefore, children
   ages 3 - 5 are eligible to receive funds under both Sections. The per
   pupil allocation is determined for both Section 611 and Section 619 by
   each local education agency (local school district). 5. What is
   "full-time-equivalent enrollment" (FTE)? ÿ FTE is the decimal
   expression of the enrollment of a student in the charter school
   compared to the length of the annual session of the charter school. A
   student who is enrolled for the full school year has an FTE of 1.000,
   while a student who is only enrolled half of the school year has an FTE
   of 0.500. The length of the school year and each student's period of
   enrollment are measured in weeks for this purpose. To assist in the
   calculation of FTEs for charter school pupils, an "FTE Calculator" is 2
   09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER
   SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF
   THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION available in the
   Charter School Information section of the State Aid web site at
   http://stateaid.nysed.gov. 6. Will the public school district receive
   any State Aid to offset its expenditures for resident students enrolled
   in charter schools? ÿ The statute and regulations provide that the
   enrollment of students attending charter schools shall be included in
   the enrollment, attendance and, if applicable, count of students with
   disabilities of the school district in which the pupil resides for the
   purposes of claiming State Aid. The full-time-equivalent enrollment of
   such pupils will be added to total adjusted average daily attendance
   and to the total aidable pupil units used to claim General Aids and, if
   applicable, be appropriately weighted and added to the weighted
   resident students with disabilities used to claim Public Excess Cost
   Aids. 7. How will the public school district report the
   full-time-equivalent enrollment of district resident pupils enrolled in
   charter schools, including reports of the level of special programs or
   services provided directly or indirectly to pupils with disabilities by
   charter schools and the estimated annual cost of such special programs
   or services, to the Education Department in order to claim State Aid? ÿ
   The 2001-02 State Aid Data Entry Assistant (DEA) claim form, which
   public school districts must submit to the Education Department by
   September 1, includes a Schedule U (appended to Form A of the DEA) that
   requests information regarding enrollment and the full-time-equivalent
   enrollment of district resident pupils enrolled in charter schools,
   including reports of the level of special programs or services provided
   directly or indirectly to pupils with disabilities by charter schools.
   Multiple copies of the schedule are included in the Data Entry
   Assistant, and public school districts with resident pupils attending
   more than one charter school are required to report data for each
   charter school separately. Based on the data reported on Schedule U,
   the Data Entry Assistant will include the enrollment of students
   attending the charter schools in the enrollment, attendance and, if
   applicable, count of students with disabilities of the public school
   district. Schedule U help screens provide detailed instructions for
   updating resident charter school enrollments and FTEs. ÿ If the annual
   cost of the special education services provided to a district resident
   student with a disability by a charter school exceeds an amount equal
   to three times the approved operating expense per pupil of the public
   school district, the public school district should submit the necessary
   STAC (System to Account for Children) forms to the Program Services
   Reimbursement Unit of the State Education Department so that the
   student's full-time-equivalent enrollment and annual program 3 09/17/01
   QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER SCHOOLS
   PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF THE
   REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION cost can be included in
   the school district's future Public Excess Cost-High Cost Aid claim. 8.
   Are students attending a charter school entitled to textbooks, computer
   software, library materials and transportation services at public
   expense? ÿ For the purposes of the Textbook Loan Program defined in
   Section 701 of the Education Law, the Library Materials Loan Program
   defined in Section 711 of the Education Law and the Computer Software
   Loan Program defined in Section 751 of the Education Law, students
   attending a charter school have the same access to textbooks, software
   and library materials loaned by the public school district as if
   enrolled in a nonpublic school. Within available school district
   inventory and budgetary appropriations for purchase of such materials,
   the public school district is required to provide such materials on an
   equitable basis to all public school pupils and to all nonpublic and
   charter school pupils who are residents of the district (Textbook Loan
   Program) or who attend a nonpublic or charter school in the school
   district (Software and Library Materials Loan Programs). The base year
   enrollment of students in a charter school may be claimed by the public
   school district for the purposes of Textbook, Software and Library
   Materials Aids in the same manner as nonpublic school enrollments are
   claimed. ÿ The statute provides that transportation services shall be
   provided by the public school district to resident pupils attending a
   charter school in the same manner as such services are provided to
   resident pupils attending a nonpublic school. All public, nonpublic and
   charter school pupils who are in like circumstances in terms of
   distance from home to the school legally attended and other factors,
   must be provided the same transportation services consistent with the
   district's approved transportation policy and State law. 9. When must
   the public school district pay the required basic payments to a charter
   school? ÿ The statute requires that the basic payments be made by the
   school district in six substantially equal installments on the first
   business day of the months of July, September, November, January, March
   and May. Since the statute also requires the Commissioner to certify
   the amount of any payments for which a school district is delinquent,
   the regulations provide for the following reporting, payment and
   certification process: ¸ Thirty days before each scheduled payment date
   the charter school should provide to each public school district with
   resident pupils enrolled in the charter school an updated estimate of
   the full-time-equivalent enrollment of district resident pupils so
   enrolled for the current school year. For each pupil with a disability
   so 4 09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER
   SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF
   THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION enrolled, the report
   should indicate the level of special programs or services to be
   provided directly or indirectly to such pupil by the charter school and
   the estimated annual cost to be incurred by the charter school in
   providing such special programs or services. Since no charter schools
   had been created by July 1, 1999, however, no report was required and
   no payment was required to be made to the charter school on the
   scheduled July 1 payment date for the 1999-00 school year. ¸ The
   approved charter of a charter school may provide for a lesser charge
   per pupil than otherwise authorized by the statute. Such lesser charge
   must be based on an agreement between the charter school and the entity
   that is approving the charter (i.e., a public school district's board
   of education, the Board of Trustees of the State University of New
   York, or the Board of Regents). If such a reduced per pupil charge has
   been established pursuant to an agreement between the charter school
   and the charter school entity that approved the charter, the charter
   school should report the amount of such reduced charge to each public
   school district with resident pupils enrolled in the charter school
   thirty days before each scheduled payment. ¸ On each scheduled payment
   date, based on reports received from charter schools, a public school
   district with resident pupils enrolled in a charter school must pay
   directly to the charter school the appropriate payment amounts
   attributable to the enrollment of such resident pupils. For the 1999-00
   school year, however, no report was required and no payment was
   required to be made to the charter school on the scheduled July 1
   payment date. 10. How will the total annual payment due to a charter
   school by a public school district for resident pupils enrolled in the
   charter school be determined? ÿ The total estimated annual payment due
   will equal the sum of: (1) the product of the total reported FTE for
   2001-02 multiplied by the basic charge; (2) the product of the reported
   weighted FTE of pupils with disabilities multiplied by the public
   school district's calculated public excess cost aid per pupil; (3) the
   product of any high cost for individual pupils with disabilities (the
   reported estimate of annual cost minus three times the public school
   district's approved operating expense per pupil) multiplied by the
   individual pupil's FTE and by the public school district's public
   excess cost aid ratio; and (4) with regard to payment of Sections 611
   and 619 IDEA funds: 5 09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE
   FINANCING OF CHARTER SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION
   LAW AND PART 119 OF THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION a)
   Charter Schools Opening Or Significantly Expanding Enrollment On Or
   Before Nov. 1st Of An Academic Year Charter schools which open or
   significantly expand their enrollment on or before November 1st of an
   academic year will report their December 1st child counts of resident
   pupils with disabilities enrolled in the charter school to the
   student's school district of residence as well as the State Education
   Department. The school district of residence will include the count
   given to them by the charter school as part of their PD count submitted
   to the State Education Department for students who are in programs on
   December 1st of a given school year. The school district of residence
   will calculate the amount due to the charter school by taking the
   number of students reported as of December 1st, who were in the charter
   school and receiving special education services in a charter school,
   and multiply that by the per pupil amount calculated under both Section
   611 and Section 619 of IDEA as appropriate by each local school
   district of residence. The charter school must receive the full amount
   of funds due within five months of the date the charter school opens or
   significantly expands its enrollment. The district will need to
   determine the portion of services delivered by the district of
   residence and the portion delivered by the charter school. The charter
   school will get a pro- rated amount based upon the portion of services
   the child receives from the charter school and full-time equivalent
   enrollment. b) For Charter Schools Opening Or Significantly Expanding
   Enrollment After Nov. 1st But Before Feb. 1st Of An Academic Year For
   charter schools opening or significantly expanding enrollment after
   Nov. 1st but before Feb. 1st of an academic year, the charter school
   must receive a pro-rata portion of the funds for which the charter
   school is eligible within five months of the date the charter school
   opens or significantly expands its enrollment. If the charter school
   opens after Nov. 1st and before Dec. 1st, it should report the Dec. 1st
   child counts to the students' school districts of residence as
   described above, and districts will need to allocate monies as
   described above. However, for charter schools that open after Dec. 1st
   or that significantly expand their enrollment for the time period Dec.
   2nd  Jan. 31st, charter schools must report these enrollment figures to
   the students' school districts of residence and receive a pro-rata
   portion of funds within five months of the date the charter school
   opens or significantly expands its enrollment. The district, in
   calculating the amount due the charter school, will need to consider
   the FTE for the child for that year, and the portion of the special
   education services delivered by the charter school and by the district
   of 6 09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER
   SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF
   THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION residence. The charter
   school would only be entitled to the per child amount pro-rated based
   upon the portion of special education services delivered by the charter
   school, and pro-rated based upon FTE enrollment. School districts
   should note that when calculating the amount for charter schools (as in
   the prior two paragraphs) and determining the amount based upon the
   amount of services received in the charter schools, this is the only
   time school districts allocate federal funds based upon the amount of
   services delivered. Districts do not pro-rate federal funds based upon
   the amount of services delivered, pursuant to Chapter 6, as amended by
   Chapter 254 relating to disbursement of federal dollars to approved
   Special Education Programs. c) For Charter Schools That Open Or
   Significantly Expand Enrollment After Feb. 1st Of An Academic Year The
   students' district of residence may, at its discretion, provide the
   charter school with a pro-rata share portion of funds, based upon the
   FTE enrollment and portion of special education services delivered by
   the charter school. 11. What type of notice must charter schools
   provide local education agencies (LEAs) in order to qualify to receive
   federal funds? ÿ In accordance with federal regulations, at least 120
   days before the date a charter school is scheduled to open or
   significantly expand its enrollment, the charter school must provide
   the LEA's with notice to that effect. 12. How will each of the six
   scheduled payments due to a charter school by a public school district
   for resident pupils enrolled in the charter school be determined? ÿ
   Each scheduled payment will be calculated as follows on the first
   business day of each of the months of July, September, November,
   January, March and May, based on updated estimates of 2001-02 FTE
   enrollments, as specified in item #9 above, provided by the charter
   school to the public school district 30 days before each scheduled
   payment date. v July 1, 2001: Payment = The Total Annual Payment Due
   Multiplied By One Sixth. v Sept. 1, 2001: Payment = [The Total Annual
   Payment Due Multiplied By Two Sixths] Minus the July Payment Amount. 7
   09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE FINANCING OF CHARTER
   SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION LAW AND PART 119 OF
   THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION v Nov. 1, 2001:
   Payment = [The Total Annual Payment Due Multiplied By Three Sixths]
   Minus the July and Sept Payment Amounts. v Jan. 3, 2002: Payment = [The
   Total Annual Payment Due Multiplied By Four Sixths] Minus the July,
   Sept and Nov Payment Amounts. v Mar. 1, 2002: Payment = [The Total
   Annual Payment Due Multiplied By Five Sixths] Minus the July, Sept, Nov
   and Jan Payment Amounts. v May 1, 2002: Payment = [The Total Annual
   Payment Due Minus the July, Sept, Nov, Jan and Mar Payment Amounts. 13.
   Will there be any adjustment in the aids paid to a charter school by a
   public school district after the close of the school year? ÿ No later
   than July 31 after the close of the school year, the charter school
   must provide a final report to each public school district with
   resident pupils enrolled in the charter school of the actual
   full-time-equivalent enrollment of district resident pupils so enrolled
   for the completed school year. For each pupil with a disability so
   enrolled, the report should indicate the level of special programs or
   services actually provided directly or indirectly to such pupil by the
   charter school and the annual cost actually incurred by the charter
   school in providing such special programs or services. Based on this
   report and the total payments made by the public school district to the
   charter school for the completed school year, any adjustments in
   payments due to the charter school for the completed year will be
   determined and will be applied to the total annual payment due to the
   charter school from the public school district in the next school year.
   14. What happens if a public school district with resident pupils
   enrolled in a charter school refuses or fails to make the payments
   required? ÿ If the charter school has provided the required documented
   reports to the district, and the district refuses or fails to make the
   payments required, the charter school should notify the Charter School
   Unit of the State Education Department in writing. Upon written
   notification to the Education Department by a charter school of the
   failure of a public school district to make any of the required
   payments based on the charter school's documented reports of the
   full-time-equivalent enrollment of district resident pupils enrolled in
   the charter school, including reports of the level of special programs
   or services provided directly or indirectly to pupils with disabilities
   and the estimated annual 8 09/17/01 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING THE
   FINANCING OF CHARTER SCHOOLS PURSUANT TO SECTION 2856 OF THE EDUCATION
   LAW AND PART 119 OF THE REGULATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION
   cost of such special programs or services, the Education Department
   will calculate the amount of any delinquent payments due and owing to
   the charter school and certify such amount to the State Comptroller.
   Upon such certification, the State Comptroller will deduct the
   certified amount from State Aid payments otherwise due to the public
   school district and pay the amount of State Aid withheld directly to
   the charter school. 15. How will the public school district record and
   report required payments to a charter school under the Uniform System
   of Accounts? ÿ The public school district will record and report
   appropriations and expenditures of the basic charter school tuition
   amount for resident pupils enrolled in charter schools in the General
   Fund appropriation/expenditure account "A2110.473: Payments to Charter
   Schools for Regular Instruction," (Schedule A4 of the Annual Financial
   Report Form ST- 3). ÿ Payments to charter schools that represent State
   Aid attributable to school aged pupils with disabilities should be
   recorded and reported in the General Fund appropriation/expenditure
   account "A2250.473: Payments to Charter Schools for Special Education,"
   (Schedule A4 of the Annual Financial Report Form ST-3). 9 09/17/01
