http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0906eco-terrorismhearing.htm

    blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or
   Michael Correia (Michael.Correia@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   September 6, 2001

          Forest Subcommittee to Hold Oct. Hearing on Eco-Terrorism
   Full Committee to Consider Related Subpoena at September 12^th Hearing

   Washington, D.C.- The Subcommittee on Forest and Forest Health will
   hold a hearing to explore the increasing numbers of eco-terrorist acts
   on national forest lands. The hearing will be Tuesday, October 16.

   In conjunction with that hearing, the House Resources Committee will,
   on September 12 at 10 a.m. in 1334 Longworth HOB, consider a request
   from Chairman Scott McInnis that Resources Chairman James V. Hansen
   issue a subpoena requiring Craig Rosebraugh, the self-described North
   American spokesperson for Earth Liberation Front (ELF), to testify at
   the Oct. 16^th hearing. Rosebraugh has declined an invitation to
   voluntarily appear.

   The use of violence and intimidation by extreme environmental groups in
   an attempt to further their agenda is on the rise. Since 1980, there
   have been over 100 major acts of arson or bombings in 11 western
   states, totaling $42.8 million in damages. Activists have burned
   experimental, genetically-altered crops in Oregon, California, and
   Maine. The FBI has noted both an increase in frequency and intensity of
   these terrorist crimes.

   "This is a serious problem that needs to be addressed by my
   subcommittee because many attacks have been in direct response to land
   management decisions made by the Forest Service," McInnis said. "In my
   estimation, this violent activism represents a fundamental danger to
   the people, property, and processes associated with the management of
   our nation's forests."

   House Resources Committee Chairman James V. Hansen said, "I applaud
   Chairman McInnis' bold approach to this problem. I hope this hearing is
   a step toward a stronger, effective federal response to this growing
   problem. Eco-terrorism, like any other form of terrorism, is
   unconscionable and must not be tolerated."

   The Earth Liberation Front (ELF) has claimed responsibility for
   numerous acts of eco-violence, including the 1998 bombing of a Vail ski
   resort which caused $12 million worth of damage. Rosebraugh has bragged
   about his group's intention to escalate its violence.

   Representatives from several federal agencies and members of Congress
   who have taken a leadership role on this issue will testify at the Oct.
   16^th hearing. Business owners who have been victims of eco-terrorism
   will also testify before the subcommittee. House and Senate committees
   have the power to subpoena witnesses. The committee, by a majority
   vote, authorizes a committee chairman to issue the subpoena.

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
