http://ftp.sec.gov/about/whatwedo.shtml

   SEC Seal SEC Seal Home |Fast Answers | Site Map | Search:
                                                            Search
                         U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission


        About the SEC

   [pixel.gif]
          [pixel.gif]
   What We Do
   Commissioners
   Laws & Regulations
   Annual Report
   GPRA
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif]
      [pixel.gif]
        Filings (EDGAR)
        Regulatory Actions
        Staff Interps
        Investor Info
        News & Statements
        Litigation
        Information for...
        Divisions
        Contact

   December 1999

The Investor's Advocate:
How the SEC Protects Investors and Maintains
Market Integrity

     __________________________________________________________________

         *  Introduction
         *  Creation of the SEC
         *  Organization of the SEC
         *  Laws That Govern the Industry
        __________________________________________________________________

Introduction The SEC: Who We Are, What We Do

   The primary mission of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
   (SEC) is to protect investors and maintain the integrity of the
   securities markets. As more and more first-time investors turn to the
   markets to help secure their futures, pay for homes, and send children
   to college, these goals are more compelling than ever.

   The world of investing is fascinating, complex, and can be very
   fruitful. But unlike the banking world, where deposits are guaranteed
   by the federal government, stocks, bonds and other securities can lose
   value. There are no guarantees. That's why investing should not be a
   spectator sport; indeed, the principal way for investors to protect the
   money they put into the securities markets is to do research and ask
   questions.

   The laws and rules that govern the securities industry in the United
   States derive from a simple and straightforward concept: all investors,
   whether large institutions or private individuals, should have access
   to certain basic facts about an investment prior to buying it. To
   achieve this, the SEC requires public companies to disclose meaningful
   financial and other information to the public, which provides a common
   pool of knowledge for all investors to use to judge for themselves if a
   company's securities are a good investment. Only through the steady
   flow of timely, comprehensive and accurate information can people make
   sound investment decisions.

   The SEC also oversees other key participants in the securities world,
   including stock exchanges, broker-dealers, investment advisors, mutual
   funds, and public utility holding companies. Here again, the SEC is
   concerned primarily with promoting disclosure of important information,
   enforcing the securities laws, and protecting investors who interact
   with these various organizations and individuals.

   Crucial to the SEC's effectiveness is its enforcement authority. Each
   year the SEC brings between 400-500 civil enforcement actions against
   individuals and companies that break the securities laws. Typical
   infractions include insider trading, accounting fraud, and providing
   false or misleading information about securities and the companies that
   issue them.

   Fighting securities fraud, however, requires teamwork. At the heart of
   effective investor protection is an educated and careful investor. The
   SEC offers the public a wealth of educational information on its
   Internet website at www.sec.gov. The website also includes the EDGAR
   database of disclosure documents that public companies are required to
   file with the Commission.

   Though it is the primary overseer and regulator of the U.S. securities
   markets, the SEC works closely with many other institutions, including
   Congress, other federal departments and agencies, the self-regulatory
   organizations (e.g. the stock exchanges), state securities regulators,
   and various private sector organizations.

   This article is an overview of the SEC's history, responsibilities,
   activities, organization, and operation. More detailed information
   about many of these topics is available on the SEC website.

Creation of the SEC

   The SEC's foundation was laid in an era that was ripe for reform.
   Before the Great Crash of 1929, there was little support for federal
   regulation of the securities markets. This was particularly true during
   the post-World War I surge of securities activity. Proposals that the
   federal government require financial disclosure and prevent the
   fraudulent sale of stock were never seriously pursued.

   Tempted by promises of "rags to riches" transformations and easy
   credit, most investors gave little thought to the dangers inherent in
   uncontrolled market operation. During the 1920s, approximately 20
   million large and small shareholders took advantage of post-war
   prosperity and set out to make their fortunes in the stock market. It
   is estimated that of the $50 billion in new securities offered during
   this period, half became worthless.

   When the stock market crashed in October 1929, the fortunes of
   countless investors were lost. Banks also lost great sums of money in
   the Crash because they had invested heavily in the markets. When people
   feared their banks might not be able to pay back the money that
   depositors had in their accounts, a "run" on the banking system caused
   many bank failures.


                                               Pres. Franklin D. Roosevelt

                        President Franklin D. Roosevelt


                                Joseph Kennedy

   With the Crash and ensuing depression, public confidence in the markets
   plummeted. There was a consensus that for the economy to recover, the
   public's faith in the capital markets needed to be restored. Congress
   held hearings to identify the problems and search for solutions.

   Based on the findings in these hearings, Congress passed the Securities
   Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These laws were
   designed to restore investor confidence in our capital markets by
   providing more structure and government oversight. The main purposes of
   these laws can be reduced to two common-sense notions:
     * Companies publicly offering securities for investment dollars must
       tell the public the truth about their businesses, the securities
       they are selling, and the risks involved in investing.
     * People who sell and trade securities brokers, dealers, and
       exchanges must treat investors fairly and honestly, putting
       investors' interests first.

   Monitoring the securities industry requires a highly coordinated
   effort. Congress established the Securities and Exchange Commission in
   1934 to enforce the newly-passed securities laws, to promote stability
   in the markets and, most importantly, to protect investors. President
   Franklin Delano Roosevelt appointed Joseph P. Kennedy, President John
   F. Kennedy's father, to serve as the first Chairman of the SEC.

Organization of the SEC

   The SEC is comprised of five presidentially-appointed Commissioners,
   four Divisions and 18 Offices. With approximately 2,900 staff, the SEC
   is small by federal agency standards. Headquartered in Washington, DC,
   the SEC has 11 regional and district Offices throughout the country.

The Commissioners

   The Securities and Exchange Commission has five Commissioners who are
   appointed by the President of the United States with the advice and
   consent of the Senate. Their terms last five years and are staggered so
   that one Commissioner's term ends on June 5 of each year. To ensure
   that the Commission remains non-partisan, no more than three
   Commissioners may belong to the same political party. The President
   also designates one of the Commissioners as Chairman, the SEC's top
   executive.

   The Commissioners meet to discuss and resolve a variety of issues the
   staff brings to their attention. At these meetings the Commissioners:
     * interpret federal securities laws;
     * amend existing rules;
     * propose new rules to address changing market conditions; and/or
     * enforce rules and laws.

   These meetings are open to the public and the news media unless the
   discussion pertains to confidential subjects, such as whether to begin
   an enforcement investigation.

Divisions

Division of Corporation Finance

   The Division of Corporation Finance oversees corporate disclosure of
   important information to the investing public. Corporations are
   required to comply with regulations pertaining to disclosure that must
   be made when stock is initially sold and then on a continuing and
   periodic basis. The Division's staff routinely reviews the disclosure
   documents filed by companies. The staff also provides companies with
   assistance interpreting the Commission's rules and recommends to the
   Commission new rules for adoption.


                                                  SEC staff in meeting - 1



                                                  SEC staff in meeting - 2

   The Division of Corporation Finance reviews documents that
   publicly-held companies are required to file with the Commission. The
   documents include:
     * registration statements for newly-offered securities;
     * annual and quarterly filings (Forms 10-K and 10-Q);
     * proxy materials sent to shareholders before an annual meeting;
     * annual reports to shareholders;
     * documents concerning tender offers (a tender offer is an offer to
       buy a large number of shares of a corporation, usually at a premium
       above the current market price); and
     * filings related to mergers and acquisitions.

   These documents disclose information about the companies' financial
   condition and business practices to help investors make informed
   investment decisions. Through the Division's review process, the staff
   checks to see if publicly-held companies are meeting their disclosure
   requirements and seeks to improve the quality of the disclosure. To
   meet the SEC's requirements for disclosure, a company issuing
   securities or whose securities are publicly traded must make available
   all information, whether it is positive or negative, that might be
   relevant to an investor's decision to buy, sell, or hold the security.

   Corporation Finance provides administrative interpretations of the
   Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the
   Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and recommends regulations to implement
   these statutes. Working closely with the Office of the Chief
   Accountant, the Division monitors the activities of the accounting
   profession, particularly the Financial Accounting Standards Board
   (FASB), that result in the formulation of generally accepted accounting
   principles (GAAP).

   The Division's staff provides guidance and counseling to registrants,
   prospective registrants, and the public to help them comply with the
   law. For example, a company might ask whether the offering of a
   particular security requires registration with the SEC. Corporation
   Finance would share its interpretation of the relevant securities
   regulations with the company and give it advice on compliance with the
   appropriate disclosure requirement.

   The Division uses no-action letters to issue guidance in a more formal
   manner. A company seeks a no-action letter from the staff of the SEC
   when it plans to enter uncharted legal territory in the securities
   industry. For example, if a company wants to try a new marketing or
   financial technique, it can ask the staff to write a letter indicating
   whether it would or would not recommend that the Commission take action
   against the company for engaging in its new practice.

   How the SEC Rulemaking Process Works

      Rulemaking is the process by which federal agencies implement
      legislation passed by Congress and signed into law by the President.
      Major pieces of legislation, such as the Securities Act of 1933, the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Investment Company Act of
      1940, provide the framework for the SEC's oversight of the securities
      markets. These statutes are broadly drafted, establishing basic
      principles and objectives. Then, as the securities markets evolve
      technologically, expand in size, and offer new products and services,
      the SEC engages in rulemaking to maintain fair and orderly markets and
      to protect investors by altering regulations or creating new ones.

      Rulemaking can involve several steps: concept release, rule proposal,
      and rule adoption.

      Concept Release: The rulemaking process usually begins with a rule
      proposal, but sometimes an issue is so unique and/or complicated that
      the Commission seeks out public input on which, if any, regulatory
      approach is appropriate. A concept release is issued describing the
      area of interest and the Commission's concerns and usually identifying
      different approaches to addressing the problem, followed by a series of
      questions that seek the views of the public on the issue. The public's
      feedback is taken into consideration as the Commission decides which
      approach, if any, is appropriate.

      Rule Proposal: The staff of the SEC drafts a detailed formal rule
      proposal and presents it to the full Commission. Unlike a concept
      release, a rule proposal is specific in its objectives and methods for
      achieving its goals. Following approval by the Commission, the rule
      proposal is presented to the public for a specified period of time,
      typically between 30 and 60 days for review and comment. Input once
      again is considered as a final rule is crafted.

      Rule Adoption: Finally, the staff of the SEC presents a final rule to
      the full Commission for its consideration. If adopted, the measure
      becomes part of the official rules that govern the securities industry.
      If the rule is a major rule, it may be subject to congressional review
      and veto prior to becoming effective.

Division of Market Regulation

   The Division of Market Regulation establishes and maintains standards
   for fair, orderly, and efficient markets. It does this primarily by
   regulating the major securities market participants: broker-dealer
   firms; self-regulatory organizations (SROs), which include the stock
   exchanges and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD),
   Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and clearing agencies
   (SROs that help facilitate trade settlement); transfer agents (parties
   that maintain records of stock and bond owners); and securities
   information processors. (A self-regulatory organization is a member
   organization that creates and enforces rules for its members based on
   the federal securities laws. SROs, which are overseen by the SEC, are
   the front line in regulating broker-dealers.)

   The Division also oversees the Securities Investor Protection
   Corporation (SIPC), which is a private, non-profit corporation that
   insures the securities and cash in the customer accounts of member
   brokerage firms against the failure of those firms. It is important to
   remember that SIPC insurance does not cover investor losses arising
   from market declines or fraud.

   Market Regulation's responsibilities include:
     * carrying out the Commission's financial integrity program for
       broker-dealers;
     * reviewing and approving proposed new rules and proposed changes to
       existing rules filed by the SROs;
     * establishing rules and issuing interpretations on matters affecting
       the operation of the securities markets; and
     * surveilling the markets.

Division of Investment Management

   The Division of Investment Management oversees and regulates the $15
   trillion investment management industry and administers the securities
   laws affecting investment companies (including mutual funds) and
   investment advisers. In applying the federal securities laws to this
   industry, the Division works to improve disclosure and minimize risk
   for investors without imposing undue costs on regulated entities. The
   Division:
     * interprets laws and regulations for the public and SEC inspection
       and enforcement staff;
     * responds to no-action requests and requests for exemptive relief;
     * reviews investment company and investment adviser filings;
     * reviews enforcement matters involving investment companies and
       advisers; and
     * develops new rules and amendments to adapt regulatory structures to
       new circumstances.

   As the utility industry evolves from a regulated monopoly to a
   competitive, market-driven industry, the Division also exercises
   oversight of registered and exempt utility holding companies under the
   Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. In this area, the Division:
     * reviews proposals and applications and proposes new rules and
       amendments under the Act;
     * examines annual and periodic reports of holding companies and their
       subsidiaries; and
     * participates in audits of these companies.

Division of Enforcement

   The Division of Enforcement investigates possible violations of
   securities laws, recommends Commission action when appropriate, either
   in a federal court or before an administrative law judge, and
   negotiates settlements on behalf of the Commission. While the SEC has
   civil enforcement authority only, it works closely with various
   criminal law enforcement agencies throughout the country to develop and
   bring criminal cases when the misconduct warrants more severe action.

   The Division obtains evidence of possible violations of the securities
   laws from many sources, including its own surveillance activities,
   other Divisions of the SEC, the self-regulatory organizations and other
   securities industry sources, press reports, and investor complaints.

   All SEC investigations are conducted privately. Facts are developed to
   the fullest extent possible through informal inquiry, interviewing
   witnesses, examining brokerage records, reviewing trading data, and
   other methods. Once the Commission issues a formal order of
   investigation, the Division's staff may compel witnesses by subpoena to
   testify and produce books, records, and other relevant documents.
   Following an investigation, SEC staff present their findings to the
   Commission for its review. The Commission can authorize the staff to
   file a case in federal court or bring an administrative action.
   Individuals and companies charged sometimes choose to settle the case,
   while others contest the charges.

               Common violations that may lead to SEC investigations include:

     * insider trading: buying or selling a security in breach of a
       relationship of trust and confidence while in possession of
       material, non-public information about the security;
     * misrepresentation or omission of important information about
       securities;
     * manipulating the market prices of securities;
     * stealing customers' funds or securities;
     * violating broker-dealers' responsibility to treat customers fairly;
       and
     * sale of securities without proper registration.

   Under the securities laws the Commission can bring enforcement actions
   either in the federal courts or internally before an administrative law
   judge. The factors considered by the Commission in deciding how to
   proceed include: the seriousness of the wrongdoing, the technical
   nature of the matter, tactical considerations, and the type of sanction
   or relief to obtain. For example, the Commission may bar someone from
   the brokerage industry in an administrative proceeding, but an order
   barring someone from acting as a corporate officer or director must be
   obtained in federal court. Often, when the misconduct warrants it, the
   Commission will bring both proceedings.
     * Civil action: The Commission files a complaint with a U.S. District
       Court that describes the misconduct, identifies the laws and rules
       violated, and identifies the sanction or remedial action that is
       sought. Typically, the Commission asks the court to issue an order,
       called an injunction, that prohibits the acts or practices that
       violate the law or Commission rules. A court's order can also
       require various actions, such as audits, accounting for frauds, or
       special supervisory arrangements. In addition, the SEC often seeks
       civil monetary penalties and the return of illegal profits, known
       as disgorgement. The courts may also bar or suspend an individual
       from serving as a corporate officer or director. A person who
       violates the court's order may be found in contempt and be subject
       to additional fines or imprisonment.
     * Administrative action: The Commission can seek a variety of
       sanctions through the administrative proceeding process.
       Administrative proceedings differ from civil court actions in that
       they are heard by an administrative law judge (ALJ), who is
       independent of the Commission. The administrative law judge
       presides over a hearing and considers the evidence presented by the
       Division staff, as well as any evidence submitted by the subject of
       the proceeding. Following the hearing the ALJ issues an initial
       decision in which he makes findings of fact and reaches legal
       conclusions. The initial decision also contains a recommended
       sanction. Both the Division staff and the defendant may appeal all
       or any portion of the initial decision to the Commission. The
       Commission may affirm the decision of the ALJ, reverse the
       decision, or remand it for additional hearings. Administrative
       sanctions include cease and desist orders, suspension or revocation
       of broker-dealer and investment advisor registrations, censures,
       bars from association with the securities industry, and payment of
       civil monetary penalties, and return of illegal profits.

  Offices

    Office of Administrative Law Judges

   Administrative law judges conduct hearings and rule on allegations of
   securities law violations brought by the SEC staff. After cases are
   referred to them by the Commission, the judges conduct hearings in a
   manner similar to non-jury trials in the federal district courts. Among
   other actions, administrative law judges issue subpoenas, rule on
   motions, and rule on the admissibility of evidence. At the conclusion
   of hearings, the parties involved submit proposed findings of fact and
   conclusions of law. The administrative law judges prepare and file
   initial decisions including factual findings and legal conclusions.
   Parties may appeal decisions to the Commission, which can affirm or
   deny the administrative law judges' rulings or remand the case back for
   additional hearings.

    Office of Administrative and
    Personnel Management


                                                 personnel staffer at work

   The Office of Administrative and Personnel Management develops,
   implements and evaluates the Commission's programs for human resource
   and personnel management, such as position management and pay
   administration; recruitment, placement, and staffing; payroll;
   performance management and awards; employee training and career
   development; employee relations; personnel management evaluation;
   employee benefits and counseling; the processing and maintenance of
   employee records; and ethics and financial disclosure. The Office
   develops and executes programs for office services, such as
   telecommunications; procurement and contracting; property management;
   contract and lease administration; space acquisition and management;
   management of official vehicles; safety programs; emergency
   preparedness programs; physical security; mail receipt and
   distribution; and publications, printing and desktop publishing.


   a printing calculator - still a useful tool in accountancy

    Office of the Chief Accountant

   The Chief Accountant is the principal adviser to the Commission on
   accounting and auditing matters. An audit is an examination of a
   company's financial books and records done to ensure that it keeps
   fair, consistent documents in accordance with SEC regulations. The
   Office of the Chief Accountant also works closely with domestic and
   international private-sector accounting and auditing standards-setting
   bodies (e.g. the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the
   International Accounting Standards Committee, the American Institute of
   Certified Public Accountants, and the International Accounting
   Standards Committee), consults with registrants, auditors, and other
   Commission staff regarding the application of accounting standards and
   financial disclosure requirements, and assists in addressing problems
   that may warrant enforcement actions.

    Office of Compliance Inspections
    and Examinations

   The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations administers the
   SEC's nationwide examination and inspection program for registered
   self-regulatory organizations, broker-dealers, transfer agents,
   clearing agencies, investment companies, and investment advisers. The
   Office conducts inspections to foster compliance with the securities
   laws, to detect violations of the law, and to keep the Commission
   informed of developments in the regulated community. Among the more
   important goals of the examination program is the quick and informal
   correction of compliance problems. When the Office finds deficiencies,
   it issues a "deficiency letter" identifying the problems that need to
   be rectified and monitor the situation until compliance is achieved.
   Violations that appear too serious for informal correction are referred
   to the Division of Enforcement.

    Office of the Comptroller

   The Office of the Comptroller administers the financial management and
   budget functions of the SEC. The Office assists the Executive Director
   in formulating budget and authorization requests, monitors the
   utilization of agency resources, and develops, oversees, and maintains
   SEC financial systems. These activities include cash management,
   accounting, fee collections, travel policy development, and oversight
   and budget justification and execution.


                                  symbolic representation of a bull market

    Office of Economic Analysis

   The Office of Economic Analysis advises the Commission and its staff on
   the economic issues associated with the SEC's regulatory and policy
   activities. The Office analyzes the potential impacts and benefits of
   proposed regulations, conducts studies on specific rules, and engages
   in long-term research and policy planning. The Office also analyzes
   data on a wide range of market activities that may require attention by
   the SEC. The Office is staffed by financial economists, statisticians,
   analysts, and computer programmers.

    Office of Equal Employment
    Opportunity

   The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) develops and
   recommends policies designed to promote equal opportunity in all
   aspects of the agency's recruitment, selection, training, advancement,
   compensation, and supervision of employees. In particular, the Office
   develops the agency's affirmative employment practices and procedures;
   ensures agency compliance with EEO regulatory requirements affecting
   all employees and applicants; administers the agency's EEO complaint
   processing, investigative, and alternative dispute resolution
   procedures; and disseminates information on EEO-related policies and
   procedures. In its capacity as liaison between the Commission and the
   securities industry on diversity issues, the Office sponsors diversity
   roundtables and minority symposiums to encourage greater diversity in
   the securities industry.

    Office of the Executive Director

   The Office of the Executive Director develops and executes the
   management policies of the SEC. The Office formulates budget and
   authorization strategies, supervises the allocation and use of SEC
   resources, promotes management controls and financial integrity,
   manages the administrative support offices, and oversees the
   development and implementation of the SEC's automated information
   systems.

    Office of Filings and Information
    Services

   The Office of Filings and Information Services receives and initially
   handles all public documents filed with the SEC. The Office is also
   responsible for custody and control of the SEC's official records,
   development and implementation of the records management program, and
   authentication of all documents produced for administrative or judicial
   proceedings. Through the Office's Public Reference Branch, the public
   may obtain a wide range of information from quarterly and annual
   reports, registration statements, proxy materials, and other reports
   submitted by SEC filers. All public documents are available for
   inspection in the Public Reference Room in Washington, DC. Copies of
   documents may be obtained for a fee. Most corporate disclosure
   documents filed since May 1996, are available on the SEC Internet
   website at www.sec.gov and on the terminals located in the public
   reference rooms in the Commission's Offices in New York and Chicago.

    Office of the General Counsel

   The General Counsel is the chief legal officer of the Commission.
   Primary duties of the Office include representing the SEC in certain
   civil, private, or appellate proceedings, preparing legislative
   material, and providing independent advice and assistance to the
   Commission, the Divisions, and the Offices. Through its amicus curiae
   program, the Office often intervenes in private appellate litigation
   involving novel or important interpretations of the securities laws.


   a computer with the SEC's website on-screen

    Office of Information Technology

   The Office of Information Technology is responsible for organizing and
   implementing an integrated program designed to support the Commission
   and staff of the SEC in all aspects of information technology. The
   Office has overall management responsibility for the Commission's IT
   program including headquarters and regional/district operations
   support, applications development, IT program management, network
   engineering, security, and enterprise IT architecture. The Office
   operates the Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR)
   system, which electronically receives, processes, and disseminates more
   than 500,000 financial statements every year. The Office also maintains
   a very active website that contains a wealth of information about the
   Commission, the securities industry, and also hosts the entire EDGAR
   financial database for free public access.

    Office of the Inspector General

   The Office of the Inspector General conducts internal audits and
   investigations of SEC programs and operations. Through these audits and
   investigations, the Inspector General seeks to identify and mitigate
   operational risks, enhance government integrity, and improve the
   efficiency and effectiveness of SEC programs.

    Office of International Affairs

   The SEC works extensively in the international arena to promote
   cooperation and assistance and to encourage the adoption of high
   regulatory standards worldwide. The Office of International Affairs
   plays a key role in the development and implementation of the SEC's
   international enforcement and regulatory initiatives. The Office
   negotiates and oversees the implementation of information-sharing
   arrangements for enforcement and regulatory matters, conducts a
   technical-assistance program for countries with emerging securities
   markets, and ensures that the SEC's interests are furthered through
   participation in international meetings and organizations.

    Office of Investor Education and
    Assistance

   The Office of Investor Education and Assistance serves individual
   investors, ensuring that their problems and concerns are known
   throughout the SEC and considered when the agency takes action.
   Investor assistance specialists answer questions, analyze complaints,
   and seek informal resolutions.

   In addition to handling questions and complaints, the Office organizes
   Investors' Town Meetings in cities throughout the country to help
   Americans learn how to save and invest wisely, prepare for retirement,
   and achieve financial security. The Office also publishes free
   brochures and other educational materials on numerous investing topics.
   For more information about investor education, visit www.sec.gov or
   call (800) 732-0330.

   The Office, and the Commission in general, cannot act as a personal
   lawyer to members of the public engaged in private disputes with the
   securities industry. It also cannot force a broker to settle or resolve
   a private dispute. The Office can assist an investor by explaining how
   these disputes can be resolved through binding arbitration, mediation,
   or private litigation.


                                                 a lawyer reviewing briefs

    Office of Legislative Affairs

   The Office of Legislative Affairs serves as the principal liaison
   between the SEC and Members of Congress and their staffs. The Office
   advises the Commission on legislative strategy, responds to
   congressional requests, and provides information about SEC actions to
   Congress. In addition, the Office organizes briefings given to Congress
   by SEC staff and coordinates the testimony of Commission officials
   before congressional committees. The Office works closely with other
   government agencies regarding legislation that might affect the SEC.

    Office of Municipal Securities

   The Office of Municipal Securities coordinates the SEC's municipal
   securities activities and advises the Commission on policy matters
   relating to the municipal securities market. States, cities, and other
   political subdivisions, such as school districts, issue municipal
   securities to raise money. The Office assists the Division of
   Enforcement and other Divisions on municipal securities matters. The
   Office also provides technical assistance in the development and
   implementation of major SEC initiatives in the municipal securities
   area, including the coordination of municipal enforcement actions. The
   Office works closely with the municipal securities industry to educate
   state and local officials about risk management issues and foster a
   thorough understanding of the Commission's policies.

   Additional Information About the SEC
     * Addresses of SEC Offices
       Across the U.S.
     * Useful Telephone Numbers
       at the SEC
     * SEC Organization Chart
     * 1999 Annual Report of the Commission
     * The SEC News Digest
       (daily bulletin of SEC business and activities)

    Office of Public Affairs, Policy
    Evaluation and Research

   The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation, and Research
   coordinates SEC media relations and monitors media coverage of issues
   related to the SEC and the securities industry. The Office also
   administers internal and external SEC information programs and manages
   the foreign visitors program. In addition, the Office provides research
   support in regulatory and enforcement policy areas, supplies
   information for speeches for the Chairman and Commissioners, and
   assists in planning and coordinating special initiatives of the SEC.

    Office of the Secretary

   The Office of the Secretary schedules Commission meetings, administers
   the Commission's seriatim the process by which the Commission takes
   collective action without convening a meeting of the Commissioners and
   duty-officer process, and prepares and maintains records of Commission
   actions. The Office reviews all SEC documents submitted to and approved
   by the Commission. These include rulemaking releases, SEC enforcement
   orders and litigation releases, SRO rulemaking notices and orders, as
   well as other actions taken by SEC staff pursuant to delegated
   authority. The Office also provides advice to the Commission and the
   staff on questions of practice and procedure. In addition, it receives
   and tracks documents filed in administrative proceedings, requests for
   confidential treatment, and comment letters on rule proposals. The
   Office is responsible for publishing official documents and releases of
   Commission actions in the Federal Register and the SEC Docket, and it
   posts them on the SEC Internet website, www.sec.gov. The Office also
   monitors compliance with the Government in the Sunshine Act, and
   maintains records of financial judgments imposed in enforcement
   proceedings.

The Laws That Govern the Securities Industry

  Securities Act of 1933

   Often referred to as the "truth in securities" law, the Securities Act
   of 1933 has two basic objectives:
     * require that investors receive financial and other significant
       information concerning securities being offered for public sale;
       and
     * prohibit deceit, misrepresentations, and other fraud in the sale of
       securities.

   The full text of this Act is available at:
   http://www.law.uc.edu/CCL/sldtoc.html. (The SEC does not control or
   maintain this site.)

    Purpose of Registration

   A primary means of accomplishing these goals is the disclosure of
   important financial information through the registration of securities.
   This information enables investors, not the government, to make
   informed judgments about whether to purchase a company's securities.
   While the SEC requires that the information provided be accurate, it
   does not guarantee it. Investors who purchase securities and suffer
   losses have important recovery rights if they can prove that there was
   incomplete or inaccurate disclosure of important information.

    The Registration Process


                                            reviewing corporate disclosure

   In general, securities sold in the U.S. must be registered. The
   registration forms companies file provide essential facts while
   minimizing the burden and expense of complying with the law. In
   general, registration forms call for:
     * a description of the company's properties and business;
     * a description of the security to be offered for sale;
     * information about the management of the company; and
     * financial statements certified by independent accountants.

   Registration statements and prospectuses become public shortly after
   filing with the SEC. If filed by U.S. domestic companies, the
   statements are available on the EDGAR database accessible at
   www.sec.gov. Registration statements are subject to examination for
   compliance with disclosure requirements.

   Not all offerings of securities must be registered with the Commission.
   Some exemptions from the registration requirement include:
     * private offerings to a limited number of persons or institutions;
     * offerings of limited size;
     * intrastate offerings; and
     * securities of municipal, state, and federal governments.

   By exempting many small offerings from the registration process, the
   SEC seeks to foster capital formation by lowering the cost of offering
   securities to the public.

  Securities Exchange Act of 1934

   With this Act, Congress created the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   The Act empowers the SEC with broad authority over all aspects of the
   securities industry. This includes the power to register, regulate, and
   oversee brokerage firms, transfer agents, and clearing agencies as well
   as the nation's securities self regulatory organizations (SROs). The
   various stock exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange, and
   American Stock Exchange are SROs. The National Association of
   Securities Dealers, which operates the NASDAQ system, is also an SRO.

   The Act also identifies and prohibits certain types of conduct in the
   markets and provides the Commission with disciplinary powers over
   regulated entities and persons associated with them.

   The Act also empowers the SEC to require periodic reporting of
   information by companies with publicly traded securities.

    Corporate Reporting

   Companies with more than $10 million in assets whose securities are
   held by more than 500 owners must file annual and other periodic
   reports. These reports are available to the public through the SEC's
   EDGAR database.

    Proxy Solicitations

   The Securities Exchange Act also governs the disclosure in materials
   used to solicit shareholders' votes in annual or special meetings held
   for the election of directors and the approval of other corporate
   action. This information, contained in proxy materials, must be filed
   with the Commission in advance of any solicitation to ensure compliance
   with the disclosure rules. Solicitations, whether by management or
   shareholder groups, must disclose all important facts concerning the
   issues on which holders are asked to vote.

    Tender Offers

   The Securities Exchange Act requires disclosure of important
   information by anyone seeking to acquire more than 5 percent of a
   company's securities by direct purchase or tender offer. Such an offer
   often is extended in an effort to gain control of the company. As with
   the proxy rules, this allows shareholders to make informed decisions on
   these critical corporate events.

    Insider Trading

   The securities laws broadly prohibit fraudulent activities of any kind
   in connection with the offer, purchase, or sale of securities. These
   provisions are the basis for many types of disciplinary actions,
   including actions against fraudulent insider trading. Insider trading
   is illegal when a person trades a security while in possession of
   material nonpublic information in violation of a duty to withhold the
   information or refrain from trading.

    Registration of Exchanges,
    Associations, and Others


   market research - one way to do it

   The Act requires a variety of market participants to register with the
   Commission, including exchanges, brokers and dealers, transfer agents,
   and clearing agencies. Registration for these organizations involves
   filing disclosure documents that are updated on a regular basis.

   The exchanges and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)
   are identified as self-regulatory organizations (SRO). SROs must create
   rules that allow for disciplining members for improper conduct and for
   establishing measures to ensure market integrity and investor
   protection. SRO proposed rules are published for comment before final
   SEC review and approval.

   The full text of this Act can be read online at:
   http://www.law.uc.edu/CCL/sldtoc.html. (The SEC does not control or
   maintain this site.)

  Trust Indenture Act of 1939

   This Act applies to debt securities such as bonds, debentures, and
   notes that are offered for public sale. Even though such securities may
   be registered under the Securities Act, they may not be offered for
   sale to the public unless a formal agreement between the issuer of
   bonds and the bondholder, known as the trust indenture, conforms to the
   standards of this Act. The full text of this Act can be read online at:
   http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/15/ch2A.html. (The SEC does not
   control or maintain this site.)

  Investment Company Act of 1940

   This Act regulates the organization of companies, including mutual
   funds, that engage primarily in investing, reinvesting, and trading in
   securities, and whose own securities are offered to the investing
   public. The regulation is designed to minimize conflicts of interest
   that arise in these complex operations. The Act requires these
   companies to disclose their financial condition and investment policies
   to investors when stock is initially sold and, subsequently, on a
   regular basis. The focus of this Act is on disclosure to the investing
   public of information about the fund and its investment objectives, as
   well as on investment company structure and operations. It is important
   to remember that the Act does not permit the SEC to directly supervise
   the investment decisions or activities of these companies or judge the
   merits of their investments. The text of the Investment Company Act of
   1940 is part of the Internet web page located at:
   http://www.law.uc.edu/CCL/sldtoc.html. (The SEC does not control or
   maintain this site.)

  Investment Advisers Act of 1940

   This law regulates investment advisers. With certain exceptions, this
   Act requires that firms or sole practitioners compensated for advising
   others about securities investments must register with the SEC and
   conform to regulations designed to protect investors. Since the Act was
   amended in 1996, generally only advisers who have at least $25 million
   of assets under management or advise a registered investment company
   must register with the Commission. The text of this Act is part of the
   Internet web page located at:
   http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/15/ch2D.html

  Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935

   Interstate holding companies engaged, through subsidiaries, in the
   electric utility business or in the retail distribution of natural or
   manufactured gas are subject to regulation under this Act. These
   companies, unless specifically exempted, are required to submit reports
   providing detailed information concerning the organization, financial
   structure, and operations of the holding company and its subsidiaries.
   Holding companies are subject to SEC regulations on matters such as
   structure of their utility systems, transactions among companies that
   are part of the holding company utility system, acquisitions, business
   combinations, the issue and sale of securities, and financing
   transactions. The full text of this Act is available online at:
   http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/15/ch2C.html (The SEC does not
   control or maintain this site.)

   http://www.sec.gov/about/whatwedo.shtml
     __________________________________________________________________

   Contact | Employment | Links | FOIA | Privacy Policy

                                                        Modified: 05/30/2001
