http://www.cpec.ca.gov/Commission/SpeakerMenu.asp

   Logo    CPEC

        Public Presentations

    Home Page
    The Commission
    Going To College
    College Guide
    FAQs
    Fast Facts
    Policy
    Reports
    On-Line Data
    Programs
    Public Presentations
    Search CPEC
    Site Directory
    Useful Links
    Contact Us
    Ask a Question

   Mail to WebMaster   Site Directory
   The following materials have been submitted by the respective authors
   for posting on the Commission's website. Persons other than
   commissioners or the staff of the Commission have prepared these
   comments, articles, and presentations, often as the basis for public
   comment before the Commission at an open public meeting. As such, the
   contents of these materials are not the views of the Commission and
   represent solely the views of the contributing author(s) on
   education-related matters such as pending legislation, student testing,
   student financial aid, outreach programs, and other topics.

   Official Commission policy, positions, resolutions, findings of facts,
   and recommendations are contained in materials adopted by a formal
   majority vote of the Commission made during a public meeting. Those
   materials are listed elsewhere on this website in the Commission's
   official published materials.

   Copyright Disclaimer: Each author, by virtue of submitting these
   materials to the Commission for posting on this website have agreed to
   make materials available under the provisions of the California Public
   Records Act, California Government Code Section 6250 et seq. All other
   provisions of applicable copyright law, both state and federal, remain
   in force.

   Materials are listed in the order of receipt beginning with the most
   recent.


                 Commission Meeting -- December 3-4, 2001
      Presentation (if available) Presenter's Biography (if available)
                                           Dr. Mark Drummond
                                           James Kenneth Hahn
                                          Robert M. Hertzberg
                                          Mark David Milliron
                                            Gov. Paul Patton
                                             Frank Quiambao
                                               Roy Romer
                                              Herb Wesson


                   Commission Meeting -- July 30-31, 2001
      Presentation (if available) Presenter's Biography (if available)
            The Power of the Internet for Learning David S. Byer
         Education in the Medium of Technology Dr. Stanley Chodorow
               Enterprise e-Learning William H. Graves, Ph.D.
        The Technology Conundrum in Higher Education Kenneth C. Green

                   Commission Meeting -- June 4-5, 2001
      Presentation (if available) Presenter's Biography (if available)
                                          Richard C. Atkinson
                                            Gaston Caperton
                                          Richard L. Ferguson
                                            Nicholas Lemann
