http://astrobiology.arc.nasa.gov/feature/editorial0601.html

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [USEMAP:logo.gif]
   [nav_left.gif]
   [nav2_01.gif]
   [nav2_02.gif]
   [nav2_03.gif]
   [nav2_04.gif]
   [nav2_05.gif]
   [nav2_06.gif]
   [nav2_07.gif]
   [nav2_08.gif]
   [nav2_09.gif]
   [nav2_10.gif]
   [nav2_11.gif]
   [nav2_12.gif]
   [nav2_13.gif]
   [nav2_14.gif]
   [nav2_15.gif]
   [nav2_16.gif]
   [nav2_17.gif]
   [nav2_18.gif]
   [USEMAP:nav_top.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   Astrobiology: Leadership Forum
   bbb

                                 PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS AT
                             AAAS: PACIFIC DIVISION MEETING
                             ASHLAND, OREGON, JUNE 13, 2000

                   Ten Thousand Days in the Life of a Science Educator
                 Rita Peterson, Ph.D. (University of California, Irvine)

         In the very short time on the job as President of the Pacific Division
         of AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science), you
         learn that three things are expected of you. You preside over the
         meetings of the Division Council and the Executive Committee of the
         Council; you place before these groups any important issues that you
         think the Division's action can serve to advance science; and you give
         a Presidential address at the end of your one-year term.

         To prepare for this presidential address, I made an interesting
         discovery. The Pacific Division has had 80 presidents that have
         preceded me and four of the 80 have been women. These presidents
         represented 23 general fields of science: 19 were botanists of various
         stripes; 14 were zoologists of several subspecialties; 8 were chemists;
         7 were geologists; 5 each were astronomers and oceanographers; 3 each
         were physicists, psychologists, and soil scientists; 2 each were
         ecologists, engineers, general geologists, hydrologists, and
         meteorologists; and 1 each was an agronomist, and anthropologist, and a
         general geneticist. No "partridges in pear trees." More to the point of
         my talk, there have been no science educators. Now since science
         educators help to advance science in a very different way than most
         other scientists, I decided it was my duty to describe who science
         educators are and what we do. I must confess that I might have chosen
         this same topic if the last Division President had also been a science
         educator.

                      Who Are Science Educators and What Do We Do?

         Science educators are a relatively small group within the scientific
         community. One census estimated there were about 800 science educators
         in the United States. I think the census-taker probably was referring
         to the number of us who spend a part of our lives as researchers. Like
         many of you, many science educators hold university appointments which
         allow them to conduct research, publish, teach and serve the public.
         The main difference between scientists and science educators who
         conduct research is that the research of science educators has a
         different focus.

         Our research generally focuses on how children and adults learn
         science, how much science is understood by people, why some students
         and adults have a difficult time understanding science, and how to
         improve the teaching of science and the presentation of science to the
         general public.

         In other words, we conduct research to advance science by increasing
         knowledge about the public understanding of science, if you think of
         the public as including students of all ages and those who are no
         longer students. This focus happens to be one of the six missions of
         AAAS, that of increasing the public understanding of science. Of
         course, science educators are not alone in their contributions toward
         this mission; many if not most scientists also devote part of their
         energies toward improving the public understanding of science. It's
         just that science educators delve into how science content is
         presented, and how effective presentations are in relation to their
         intended audiences.

         A cartoon by Gary Larson, in The Far Side, sums it up nicely. He
         pictures four scientists in white lab coast, crowded around a colleague
         who is writing on a blackboard filled with mathematical equations. They
         cheer their colleague on, "Go for it, Sidney! You've got it!" Science
         educators help move the science content from the blackboard to
         languages and visual images, for audiences who need clarification.

                              Ten Thousand Days in the Life
                                 of One Science Educator

         Every definition benefits from a concrete example. Intimate details
         make the best examples, which is the only reason I use myself as an
         example. I have been a science educator for nearly 10,000 days, almost
         30 years. In the minutes remaining I will provide two highlights of my
         work so that you have a glimpse and first-hand account of the research
         of a typical science educator in the advancement of science. Mainly
         this focus is on research, since you are not likely to be interested in
         the courses I teach or the books I write. A few references are included
         at the end of this narrative only cite the publications mentioned.

         I began my research career when I entered U.C. Berkeley in 1965 to
         study for a Ph.D. I wanted to focus as much as possible on California
         native fauna and flora; I had been a botanical illustrator earlier in
         my life and I also taught a course on California native fauna and
         floral in a biology department at a nearby university. I wanted to
         study under scientists whose works had intrigued me most: Starker
         Leopold (wildlife management), Robert Ornduff (economic botany and
         California native flora), Robert Stebbins (herpetology), and Carl Sauer
         (origins of agriculture). At the same time, I studied in a new area
         called science education since the National Science Foundation (NSF)
         funded my doctoral study as part of the nation's effort to improve
         science education in response to Russia's launching of the world's
         first satellite, Sputnik. Three scientists with whom I studied at
         Berkeley were engaged in the development of new science programs for
         elementary and secondary school students - in addition to their regular
         scientific research. Robert Stebbins, Robert Karplus (a physicist) and
         Robert Gagne (a psychologist) all had been funded by NSF to update
         science curricula for the nation's public schools, and received very
         large grants for this purpose. All of us engaged in science education
         at Berkeley - scientists and graduate students - viewed our efforts as
         part of a responsibility toward the nation's welfare.

         Understandably, my doctoral research was strongly influenced by these
         three scientists. They wanted to know if their new hands-on science
         programs really increased children's curiosity and interest in solving
         novel problems. Such illusive qualities became my research agenda for
         the doctorate and continued for the next 10 years, largely because
         paper-and-pencil tests held little promise for assessing these outcomes
         in the new hands-on science programs. I experimented with hidden
         cameras, filming children and adolescents (with parental consent) in
         the acts of discovery in science-enriched environments, in waiting
         rooms and classrooms, and alone exploring physical and life science
         materials, and in the acts of solving novel science problems of their
         own making.

         The challenge I set for myself was to convert videotaped behavior into
         a reliable quantitative measurement tool that would allow me and other
         researchers to make comparisons of curiosity behavior among
         individuals, groups, programs or environments. While pondering this
         challenge, I happened to be reading a new book, Mechanisms of Animal
         Behavior (Marler & Hamilton, 1966), in an animal behavior course I was
         taking. Suddenly, on page 737, I found the solution for my quantitative
         measure of curiosity behavior. A drawing of a fish, the three-spined
         stickleback, was shown to be defending its territory.

         The drawing was divided into four horizontal bands, where each band
         portrayed the same fish swimming in a different way along the same
         path. Taken as a whole the bands illustrated four increasingly complex
         responses of the sand-digging behavior of this fish species, as it
         defended its territory.

         From this drawing, I substituted in my mind a curious child or adult
         who exhibits four increasingly complex levels of curiosity or
         exploratory behavior, in response to seeing science materials of high
         interest to the general population. The four levels showed an
         individual 1) noticing interesting material and ignoring it; 2)
         noticing it and approaching to look more closely; 3) noticing,
         approaching, looking, and either touching, listening, or smelling it;
         4) (all of the above levels) and reorganizing the objects or materials
         to see the effect of some action on the materials. For example, a
         person might place different weights on each side of an equal arm
         balance, feed a tortoise, or lift it from a terrarium and place it on a
         bathroom scales to weigh it, and so forth. This behavioral scale made
         sense to the scientists who reviewed it.

         The rest was easy. I stopped the videotape of each child or adolescent
         to record the highest level of curiosity expressed during each
         60-second interval, and generated average response levels over
         10-minute segments of videotape for every individual. When these
         "curiosity scores" were validated against trained and untrained raters
         who were asked to compare the videotaped behavior of any two children,
         they made selections that matched the scores generated by the video
         tool. Once validated, the video tool allowed me to study similarities
         and differences in curiosity behavior among cultural groups, and to
         study changes in curiosity behavior in a sample of Berkeley students
         over a six-year period of time. Other science educators used the same
         video tool to study the impact of various science programs and learning
         environments on students' curiosity and persistence in solving science
         problems. For example, graduate students at the University of Florida,
         Gainesville, used the video tool to observe the curiosity behavior of
         adults and children in science museums, and subsequently modified
         science exhibits to stimulate greater curiosity. At this point I would
         like to show you one or two interesting segments of videotaped behavior
         of children in the acts of discovery; but during the 1960's and 1970's,
         use of hidden cameras required that I assure parents I would not
         release videotaped behaviors of their children. Those of you who study
         rocks, plants or smaller animals don't face such problems.

         By 1980, I shifted the focus of my research as a result of my move to
         Washington, D.C where I directed a research program for the National
         Science Foundation. While there, I had the opportunity to meet with a
         group of neuroscientists who were using new CAT and PET brain scans,
         and reporting significant new findings about normal brain functioning
         and dysfunctioning due to brain injury or disease.

         Imagine my surprise when I heard descriptions of adult behaviors that
         were the result of brain injuries, and I instantly recognized behaviors
         that were considered "typical" by teachers in elementary and secondary
         classrooms! To clarify, in most school lunchrooms you might visit, you
         are likely to hear teachers make comments of the following kinds:

         "I don't know where it (new knowledge) goes! I covered that (content)
         only two months ago - and now, it's GONE! They've never heard of it!"
         or "Even my brightest students don't get it. I've done everything but
         stand on my head; we've read about it, talked about it; the kids can
         describe it in their own words, but solve problems? No way!"

         Comments like these made by talented teachers from my past led me to
         ask neuroscientists in Washington about the brain's normal
         developmental timetable between the ages of 6 and 18 years. "How could
         entire classes of students completely forget information they had known
         two months earlier - amnesia? Why couldn't students apply a principle
         to solve problems, if they were able to describe the principle -
         premature prefrontal cortex development? Were these behaviors related
         to some stage of brain development?" I could find nothing in print.
         Neuroscientists weren't studying normal children or using CAT, PET, MRI
         or other brain scans, unless children were experiencing
         life-threatening conditions.

         For the second time in my research career, I faced the same problem. I
         could find plenty of information about mental development in the form
         of paper-and-pencil tests, but nothing in the way of
         photo-physical-evidence of normal brain development or functioning
         during childhood and adolescence. I was frustrated, recalling science
         teachers' bewilderment over students' fast forgetting of subject matter
         and their failure to see how to apply new science knowledge to solve
         problems.

         I decided to tackle the problem head-on. A small group of us
         (neuroscientists, cognitive psychologists, and a science educator)
         invited a larger group of 30 neuroscientists, cognitive scientists, and
         educators to meet for four days at a farm used as a think-tank outside
         of Washington. Our goal was to develop a research agenda that would
         stimulate researchers to begin building bridges that would ultimately
         connect these three disciplines. The result of this combined effort was
         a book, The Brain, Cognition, and Education (1986) published so that
         the three agencies we represented might direct funding toward this new
         research agenda.

         When I left Washington and came to UC Irvine, I began to gather
         systematic information from expert teachers on anomalies such as entire
         classes of students forgetting content that was taught and understood,
         and students' pandemic difficulties solving problems. I cataloged
         teachers' descriptions, and searched for possible connections to brain
         research, hoping to construct a hypothetical neuro-developmental
         timetable for school aged youth. As I monitored new research reported
         by scientists studying stroke victims and other brain-injured patients,
         I looked for evidence of patterns in brain dysfunctions that resulted
         in atypical adult responses to daily tasks. I hoped to find evidence of
         adults' loss of specific brain functions that paralleled the behavior
         considered "normal" during some stage of childhood or adolescence, so
         that I could formulate a conceptual or theoretical framework to guide
         my investigation. I found recognizable developmental "markers" in the
         form of student behaviors that were easily recognized; but I needed
         much more evidence of the gradual development of the brain before I
         could publish my work, because along with finding developmental
         markers, I also found natural variations within all age groups that
         interfered with the idea of brain-mind timetables.

         I worked alone at this task, while also holding an administrative job.
         Yet, in spite of the many literature references and encouragement I
         receive from scientists, Kenneth Klivington at the Salk Institute and
         Larry Squire, at UC San Diego, and in spite of my own very strong
         motivation, I realized at the end of five years that my Developing
         Brain - Developing Child theoretical framework was premature:

         Indirect evidence of the brain's increasing levels of thought
         complexity and information processing during childhood and adolescence
         was obvious but not sufficient to describe a reliable
         neuro-developmental timetable, given the naturally occurring variations
         I found within age groups.

         Reluctantly, I concluded that I had to wait until more scientific
         information about the brain was available. I took on a new five-year
         international research project funded by NSF and JSPS (Japan's Society
         for the Promotion of Science). By the time I finished the U.S. - Japan
         Study, the brain-mind research scene had matured.

         A major break-through occurred in 1992 that caused me to return to my
         primary interest and broaden the question of brain developmental
         timetables. I met Melvin Levine, a pediatrician at the medical school
         at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, who had read our
         book, The Brain, Cognition, and Education, when it was released and had
         described anomalous behaviors in children who were failing in schools.
         Parents had contacted Levine in the hope that he could tell them why
         their "normal" children were failing in school. Levine's detailed
         descriptions of students' struggles and failures in school meshed well
         with the theoretical framework I had earlier been formulating. Levine
         had found that children who struggle in school do not share a single
         behavioral profile but have "all kinds of minds" or varied behavioral
         profiles. Levine's analysis of the neuro-developmental processes that
         underlie performance on school tasks was convincing.

         Based on Levine's work, I revised my research plan and began to look
         for and compare successful science students with struggling science
         students of "normal" intelligence (estimated by teachers). I wanted to
         observe behaviors suggesting variations in students' capacities to
         understand science.

         My goal was to search for evidence of patterns in students' struggles
         in science, hypothesizing a range of normal variations (strengths and
         weaknesses) in brain-mind development, using Levine's descriptions. At
         this same time Martha Denkla at Johns Hopkins University reported that
         no two brain images in their entire database were alike, nor had they
         found an image of a "perfect brain." I found it reasonable that some
         students would fail in science because they could not focus auditory
         attention for long enough periods of time to hear the main ideas of the
         teacher's lecture, while others failed for lack of adequate visual
         attention. These weaknesses might have nothing to do with a student's
         desire to keep listening or reading, but simply reflect the student's
         inability to sustain a given neurological response as long as the
         teacher made it necessary. Could some students fail to understand
         abstract concepts in science because they couldn't visualize images of
         what they read, while others might fail to see relationships between
         what they read and the problems they were presented? Perhaps gaining
         meaning from sequential information in charts, or interpreting abstract
         concepts from graphic representations might as likely have neurological
         origins as they might be indicative of a student's self-discipline or
         motivation.

         These questions would have immediate relevance for science teachers and
         those who prepare teachers.
         Based on Levine's findings, I began to observe students in science
         classrooms in search of evidence that different kids exhibited
         different strengths and weaknesses in their struggles to learn science.
         In no time I found plenty of evidence. Even the science teachers were
         convinced that I was "on to something." The student work samples shown
         in Figures 1 and 2 below show the strengths and weaknesses of one 7th
         grade student who was failing in science.

         What you see in Figure 1 is the work of a student called Josh
         (pseudonym). He had an exceptional ability to create a science
         experiment from scratch - that is, without guidance from the teacher or
         a lab report. In this experiment, Josh controlled two variables at the
         same time, something schools value highly and call higher order
         thinking. As background, Josh's 7th grade science teacher put on her
         lab table the following materials: a large box of sugar cubes, a large
         thermos of hot water, a pitcher of cold water with ice cubes in it, a
         stack of clear plastic tumblers, paper towels, and mortars and pestles.
         On the whiteboard she wrote: "Set up an experiment to find out what
         makes some solids dissolve faster than other in some liquids. (1) Use
         any of the materials on my lab table. (2) Take the materials to your
         seat. Do your science experiment at your seat. (3) Do your own work.
         Don't talk to other students. (4) Write a lab report on a blank sheet
         of paper. Describe what you did. Write your name on your lab report."

         At his desk, Josh systematically placed four tumblers in a row. He put
         one sugar cube in each of the first two tumblers. Next he pulverized
         the third sugar cube and dumped it in the third tumbler, and then
         pulverized the last cube to pour into the fourth tumbler. Carefully, he
         poured hot water into the first and third tumblers, and cold water into
         the second and fourth tumblers. Then he bent down near the four
         tumblers and watched the sugar dissolve. In his lab report, Josh
         concluded accurately what he had observed in his experiment. The hotter
         the water temperature, the faster the solid dissolves, and the smaller
         the size of the particle, the faster the solid dissolves.

                                        Figure 1

         While Josh's spelling is no worse than most students in his class, his
         report suffers from disorganization and erroneous labeling. He "earned"
         a grade of C on his report, one of the highest grades he earned in his
         science class. The important point, however, is to focus on Josh's
         strength. He was the only student in the entire class who set up a
         controlled experiment in which he tested two variables effectively and
         simultaneously, without any guidelines to follow. Most of Josh's
         classmates tested the effect of only one variable, water temperature,
         on whole sugar cubes. A few tested the effect of the particle size but
         they appeared oblivious to controlling water temperature, pouring hot
         water in a tumbler of slightly crumbled sugar and cold water on a
         pulverized cube. Yet, the majority of students, whose reports
         accurately categorized their hypotheses - materials - method - results
         - conclusion categories, earned better grades than Josh even though
         their experiments were simpler or even flawed.

         This second example is a copy of a vocabulary test from Josh's 7th
         grade English class (Figure 2). In this paper Josh missed 11 of 14
         questions. Once again we see that Josh's command of English, his native
         language, is as poor as his use of language in his lab report is weak.
         The weakness illustrated in these two examples suggests that a student
         like Josh can fail in science because he has not yet developed a
         refined use of language nor does he recognize the importance of
         accurate sequencing in language. We do not need a brain scan to see
         which area of the brain is the site of his weakness, but simply
         recognize that Josh's language weakness interferes with his success in
         science. Students who have strong language skills typically earn higher
         grades in school. The question we must ask is whether students like
         Josh should be given failing grades in science. My own view is that
         teachers should spend as much time encouraging students to advance in
         their areas of strength in science as they spend pointing out and
         helping students develop in their areas of weakness.

                                        Figure 2

         After collecting several hundred work samples like those of Josh, I
         recognized the need for a visual graphic that would characterize the
         neuro-developmental processes that are associated with students'
         success or failure in various science tasks. Such a visual graphic
         might enable science teachers to realize the major impact that
         neuro-developmental differences can have in a science class. I wanted
         to be able to show teachers how they were losing students in science by
         misinterpreting students' weaknesses and overlooking their strengths. I
         designed the graphic in Figure 3 to introduce teachers to the eight
         different neuro-developmental processes described by Levine. Each of
         the eight processes in Figure 3 may exist either as a strength or
         weakness in every student. With the graphic, I have helped teachers to
         relate students' academic achievement or failure in various science
         assignments, once they understand the nature of the processes. The
         eight processes shown in Figure 3 are Attention, Memory, Language,
         Temporal-Sequential, Motor, Social, Higher Order Cognition, and
         Visual-Spatial Processing. Each process has multiple characteristics
         which I will not describe here.

                                        Figure 3

         Finally I designed a visual graphic to portray individual student
         profiles of strengths and weaknesses, based on hundreds of observations
         of students in classrooms and analyses of hundreds of student work
         samples. I refer to this visual graphic in Figure 4 as a "student
         neuro-developmental fingerprint." You see in the profile of a student,
         I'll call Dirk, fairly strong - though not excellent - language skills
         and strong abilities to

                                      [figure4.jpg]

         recall what he hears or reads. By strong, I mean the pie-shaped
         segments of the fingerprint called Language and memory are filled about
         60% with color actually representing a series of observations of Dirk's
         behavior listening, reading, speaking, and writing. At the same time,
         notice that Dirk has difficulty maintaining auditory Attention during
         his science teacher's lectures (only about 10% of the time), and he has
         difficulty with time management, Temporal-Sequential processing which
         affects his ability to get his assignments in on time. Because of these
         weaknesses, Dirk earned a D in his science class since his teacher
         focused her highest priorities on paying attention in class and
         bringing in well-organized science notebooks at the end of each grade
         period. By way of contrast, if Dirk had been in a class where the
         teacher's priority was to have students participate in discussions of
         what they read, and to take quizzes in class, dirk might have earned a
         B, based on his strong memory and ability to describe science concepts
         reasonably well in class and on tests.

         When I show teachers the form that I use to portray student
         fingerprints, I ask them to fill in a blank form and create a
         fingerprint that shows an "A" student in their science class. Most
         teachers create a uniformly even chart with 7 or 8 segments filled to
         about 80%. Often the 8th segment is Motor processing, and it is filled
         to about 50%, which science teachers quickly explain as the kind of
         student who drops a test tube occasionally or jams a microscope lens
         into a glass slide the first time he or she uses it, or spills reagents
         they are trying to pour into test tubes, or gets small bits of foreign
         material into his or her eyes, nose or mouth once or twice. Oddly
         enough, most science teachers recognize that a student who is "clumsy"
         can't really help it. "They're just poorly coordinated," while they
         take all other neuro-developmental processes for granted, as though all
         were equally developed in students, a part of every students' standard
         equipment.

         Once teachers complete their fingerprint of an A student, I then
         contrast the fingerprints of A and B students with D and F students,
         all from other unnamed schools, and we begin to look at work samples of
         these students whose names have been replaced with fictitious names. By
         the time I show rows of fingerprint profiles, each lopsided in a unique
         way that portrays each student's strengths and weaknesses, teachers are
         able to recognize, and often describe examples of students who
         exhibited these same behaviors or patterns in science classrooms,
         months or years earlier. Slowly science teachers change the way they
         think about "all kinds of minds" in their classrooms. They are less
         likely to confuse Dirk's attention weakness with boredom, and his
         temporal sequencing weakness with a lack of self-discipline. Gradually
         they are more likely to see Josh's strength in which he simultaneously
         tests two variables in a single experiment, along with their concern
         about his language failures.

         One last point should be made about the quantitative and visual models
         I have developed and used in my research. I remind teachers that they
         must resist the temptation to think of these fingerprints as fixed (as
         biological fingerprints are permanent) because the brain is plastic and
         continues to evolve throughout our lives. The fingerprints I use are
         based on extensive observations of variations among students; but
         student profiles are not fixed. They represent a moment in students'
         brain-mind development. Every person's brain-mind timetable differs
         from that of every other person. All of us recognize physical
         differences in children's and adolescents' growth spurts in height and
         weight, but fail to "see" variations in the timing of growth spurts
         within the human brain that result in differences in children's and
         adolescents' ways of thinking and learning. Naturally, we can see
         overall patterns of development; and we also see recognizable
         differences in students' capacities to succeed at any one time in the
         various academic tasks that are presented. With the work I have
         completed over the past ten years, I hope to present these ideas and
         the supporting evidence in a book for science educators, so that it
         becomes part of future science teachers' knowledge and experience.

                                   The Larger Picture

         The two examples of research that I described here illustrate a final
         point I will make. The point is that science educators vary in the kind
         of research they do, even within this very small field. I am attracted
         to unsolved problems and counter-intuitive phenomena - attributes often
         associated with basic research. This attraction has led me to search
         for new ways to observe and describe human behavior. Currently, I am
         trying to understand why some people have very accurate visual memories
         for things they have seen, but terrible memories for things that are
         described to them by others; while another group of people appear to be
         just the opposite, remembering descriptions for years but having very
         poor visual memories.

         Science educators, as a group however, work nationally and
         internationally to meet a wide range of challenges required to advance
         knowledge about the public understanding of science. Since the
         emergence of the field called science education in the mid-1960's,
         science educators have contributed to the development of many federally
         funded science programs, have written planning and program documents
         published by AAAS called Science for All Americans, have developed
         National Science Education Standards, have conducted important national
         and international surveys of sub-populations' understandings of science
         that have led to changes in state and national policies, and have
         published libraries of books, articles in journals, and films
         throughout the world. As we think about the status of our planet in
         this year, 2000, and the needs of the Earth's growing diverse
         population, the challenges that lie ahead for science educators may be
         greater than those of the past 30 to 40 years, but the challenges are
         what attracts us to this field.

                                       REFERENCES

         Friedman, S., Klivington, K.A., and Peterson, R.W., Editors. (1968).
         The Brain, Cognition, and Education. London: Academic Press.

         Levine, M.D. (1987) Developmental Variations and Learning Disorders.
         Cambridge: Educators Publishing Services, Inc. (Second Edition: 1999)

         Marler, P. and Hamilton, W.J. III (1966). Mechanisms of Animal
         Behavior. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc. p.737.

         Peterson, R.W. (1975) The differential effect of an adult's presence on
         the curiosity behavior of children. Journal of Research in Science
         Teaching, 12:3, pp. 199-208.

         Peterson, R.W. (1979) Changes in curiosity behavior from childhood to
         adolexcence. Journal of Research in Science, 16:3.

   [spacer.gif]

                            Questions? Comments?

                         Responsible NASA Official:
                              Kathleen Connell

                          Designed and Curated by:
                           Symtech Corp. and NASA

   [spacer.gif]
