http://www.ofheo.gov/docs/press/PRrbcrulechanges121101.pdf

   OFFICE OF FEDERAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE OVERSIGHT NEWS RELEASE FOR
   IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Stefanie Mullin Tuesday, December 11, 2001
   202.414.6921 www.ofheo.gov OFHEO ANNOUNCES PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS TO
   RISK-BASED CAPITAL RULE (revised 12/18 to include actual language as
   printed in Federal Register) WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Armando Falcon, Jr.,
   Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO),
   safety and soundness regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the
   Enterprises), today announced proposed improvements to OFHEO's final
   risk-based capital rule published September 13, 2001 in the Federal
   Register. "These modifications will improve upon the ability of the
   rule to closely tie capital to risk. A dynamic, state-of-the-art rule
   such as this will necessarily undergo periodic revision to reflect
   changing risk profiles and better information about the nature of
   risks," said Falcon. "We continuously research and analyze risk
   characteristics of the Enterprises. That ongoing work has now resulted
   in the identification of several areas where we can improve upon
   treatments currently in the rule. I assured Congress in September that
   we would move expeditiously to implement such improvements." Interested
   parties will have 30 days to comment from the date of publication in
   the Federal Register. Comments will be published on the OFHEO web site
   at www.ofheo.gov. The proposed rule was submitted to the Office of
   Management and Budget (OMB) Friday, Nov. 16 and cleared today, Tuesday,
   Dec. 11. OFHEO sent the proposed regulation to the Federal Register
   today (attached). The proposed rule includes the following
   improvements: Modification to Counterparty Haircuts -The proposed rule
   would modify the calculation of counterparty haircuts to take loss
   severities into account explicitly and would extend the phase-in period
   for investment grade counterparties from five years to 10 years. These
   changes would tie haircuts more closely to the historical experience of
   bond issuers during stressful periods and phase them in evenly during
   the 10-year stress period. -The proposed rule would reduce the
   differential in haircuts between AAA- and AA-rated counterparties to
   more closely reflect historical experience. (more) 1700 G STREET N.W.,
   WASHINGTON, D.C. 202.414.6922 FAX 202.414.3823 Multifamily Loans -The
   proposal would make a number of changes to the multifamily default
   model, loss severity param- eters, and prepayment speeds that refine
   the measurement of risk in multifamily loans. The proposed changes
   would reflect more accurately the differential risks between fixed rate
   and adjustable rate mortgages as well as the costs and recoveries
   associated with foreclosures. The proposal on prepay- ment speeds would
   more accurately reflect prepayment penalties. Funding -The proposed
   rule would refine funding rules to provide a more realistic picture of
   funding costs in a stressful period by altering the target mix of long-
   and short-term debt to be maintained during the stress period from
   50/50 to the Enterprise's actual mix of long- and short-term debt at
   the start of the stress period. The proposal would also add a 10-basis
   point premium to the cost of an Enterprise's newly issued debt during
   the last nine years of the stress period, reflecting the impact of the
   stress on an Enterprise's cost of funds. Technical and Clarifying
   Changes -The proposal makes a number of other technical and clarifying
   changes that refine the measurement of risk in complex instruments,
   such as derivative contracts, foreign currency swaps, and instruments
   with call options, and eliminates double counting and distortion in
   calculations. In light of the proposed changes, OFHEO will now be using
   the First Quarter 2001 numbers to calculate how the Enterprises will
   fare under the risk-based capital rule. OFHEO will publish this
   information in June 2002. ### Proposed Changes to the Risk-Based
   Capital Rule * Modifications to Counterparty Haircuts o Incorporates
   loss severities into haircut calculations for all counterparties by
   multiplying default rates by loss severity rates. * Sets default rates
   for all counterparties equal to existing maximum haircuts for
   non-derivative counterparties, but lowers the default rate for AA-rated
   counterparties from 15 to 12.5 percent. * Sets loss severity rates at
   70 percent for non-derivative counterparties and 10 percent for
   derivative counterparties. o Extends the phase-in period for
   counterparty haircuts from five to ten years. o Provides for netting of
   swap payments and receipts at the counterparty level rather than the
   individual contract level. Provides an interim reduction in haircuts
   for derivative counterparties until netting is implemented. o Permits a
   higher rating than BBB for unrated seller-servicers who participate in
   delegated underwriting and servicing programs when loss- sharing
   obligations are supported by a fully funded reserve deemed adequate by
   OFHEO. * Modifications to Treatment of Multifamily Loans o Makes
   technical adjustments to the treatment of ARM loans to reduce excessive
   predicted losses on these loans in the up-rate scenario. o Modifies a
   variable in the model that increases defaults when property cash flows
   are projected to be negative, moderating the modelís sensitivity to
   declines in cash flow. o Makes a technical correction to the starting
   vacancy rate in the first month of the stress period. o Re-estimates
   the loss severity rates applied to multifamily loans (which are
   currently based solely on Freddie Mac data from the 1980s) based upon a
   larger and more diverse sample of foreclosed properties from both
   Enterprises. o Takes account of prepayment penalties by specifying no
   prepayments on loans where such penalties are effective. The rule
   provides for no prepayments in the up-rate scenario, but specifies that
   two percent of these loans prepay in the down-rate scenario. *
   Additional Operational and Technical Changes o Adds a ten-basis-point
   premium to the cost of an Enterpriseís newly issued debt during the
   last nine years of the stress period. o Specifies that the stress test
   will issue new debt in amounts that maintain or move toward the mix of
   long- and short-term debt that exists at an Enterprise at the beginning
   of the stress test. The rule currently specifies a 50/50 mix. o
   Corrects an overstatement of float income in the current rule. o
   Applies haircuts to foreign currency swaps. o Models American options
   more precisely. o Clarifies the appropriate House Price Index value to
   apply to loans originated since the date of the most recent published
   Index. o Corrects a technical omission of a flag needed to distinguish
   loans without prepayment penalties or yield maintenance provisions from
   those with in the calculation of the duration of prepayment penalties
   for loan groups. TABLE 331-STRESS TEST MAXIMUM HAIRCUT BY RATINGS
   CLASSIFICATION Derivative Derivative Contract Contract Non-Derivative
   Number of Ratings Classification Counterparties Counterparties Contract
   prior to after Counterparties or Phase-in Implementation of
   Implementation of Instruments Months Netting Netting Cash 0 0% 0% N/A
   AAA 0.3% 0.5% 3.5% 120 AA 0.75% 1.25% 8.75% 120 A 1.2% 2% 14% 120 BBB
   2.4% 4% 28% 120 Below BBB and 100% 100% 100% 1 Unrated 1 65146 Federal
   Register / Vol. 66, No. 243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed
   Rules due to changes in economic conditions VI. The Treasury and
   General receivership by a court with jurisdiction during the life of
   the receivership. Government Appropriations Act, to adjudicate the
   claim. Finally, the proposed rule provides 1999-Assessment of Federal
   (c) Post-insolvency interest that post-insolvency interest Regulations
   and Policies on Families distributions. (1) Post-insolvency
   distributions would be calculated using The FDIC has determined that
   the interest shall only be distributed a simple interest method, rather
   than a proposed rule will not affect family following satisfaction by
   the receiver of compound interest method. The simple well-being within
   the meaning of the principal amount of all creditor interest method is
   proposed because it section 654 of the Treasury and General claims. (2)
   The receiver shall distribute post- appears to provide a reasonable
   amount Government Appropriations Act, insolvency interest at the post-
   of interest to compensate receivership enacted as part of the Omnibus
   insolvency interest rate prior to making creditors for the time value
   of money Consolidated and Emergency any distribution to equityholders.
   Post- owed from the time the receivership is Supplemental
   Appropriations Act of insolvency interest distributions shall
   established until dividend payments are 1999 (Public Law 105277, 112
   Stat. be made in the order of priority set forth received. 2681). in
   section 11(d)(11)(A) of the Federal III. Request for Public Comment
   List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 360 Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C.
   Banks, banking, Savings associations. 1821(d)(11)(A). The FDIC hereby
   solicits comments For the reasons set forth in the (3) Post-insolvency
   interest on all aspects of the proposed rule, and preamble, the FDIC
   Board of Directors distributions shall be made at such time
   specifically whether post-insolvency proposes to amend 12 CFR part 360
   as as the receiver determines that such interest should be paid
   according to the follows: distributions are appropriate and only to
   order of priority described in the the extent of funds available in the
   national depositor preference statute or PART 360-RESOLUTION AND
   receivership estate. Post-insolvency alternatively pro rata to all
   creditors RECEIVERSHIP RULES interest shall be distributed on the
   regardless of priority. 1. The authority for part 360 is revised
   outstanding balance of a proven claim, as reduced from time to time by
   any IV. Paperwork Reduction Act to read as follows: interim dividend
   distributions, from the Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(1), date the
   receivership is established until The proposed rule will not involve
   1821(d)(10)(C), 1821(d)(11), 1821(e)(1), such time as the principal
   amount of a any collection of information under the 1821(e)(8)(D)(i),
   1823(c)(4), 1823(e)(2); Sec. proven claim has been distributed but
   Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 401(h), Pub. L .10173, 103 Stat.
   357. not thereafter. 3501 et seq.). Consequently, no 2. Section 360.7
   is added to part 360 (4) Post-insolvency interest shall be information
   has been submitted to the to read as follows: determined using a simple
   interest Office of Management and Budget for method of calculation.
   review. § 360.7 Post-insolvency interest. (a) Purpose and scope. This
   section By order of the Board of Directors. V. Regulatory Flexibility
   Act establishes rules governing the Dated at Washington, DC this 10th
   day of calculation and distribution of post- December, 2001. Pursuant
   to section 605(b) of the insolvency interest to creditors with Federal
   Deposit Insurance Corporation. Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601
   proven claims in all FDIC-administered Robert E. Feldman, et seq.) the
   FDIC certifies that the receiverships established after [effective
   Executive Secretary. proposed rule will not have a significant date of
   final rule]. [FR Doc. 0131162 Filed 121701; 8:45 am] economic impact on
   a substantial (b) Definitions-(1) Equityholder. The number of small
   entities. The proposed owner of an equity interest in a failed BILLING
   CODE 671401P rule will only apply to FDIC- depository institution,
   whether such administered receiverships established ownership is
   represented by stock, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND after the effective
   date of the rule, and membership in a mutual association, or URBAN
   DEVELOPMENT it does not impose new reporting, otherwise. recordkeeping
   or other compliance (2) Post-insolvency interest. Interest Office of
   Federal Housing Enterprise requirements on receivership creditors.
   calculated from the date the Oversight The proposed rule continues the
   FDIC's receivership is established on proven existing practice of
   making post- creditor claims in receiverships with 12 CFR Part 1750
   insolvency interest distributions to surplus funds. RIN 2550AA23
   creditors holding proven claims in (3) Post-insolvency interest rate.
   For surplus receiverships prior to making any calendar quarter, the
   coupon Risk-Based Capital distributions to equityholders, based on
   equivalent yield of the average discount their equity interests, in a
   failed insured rate set on the three-month Treasury bill AGENCY: Office
   of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, HUD. depository institution.
   In addition, the at the last auction held by the United States Treasury
   Department during the proposed rule will provide interested ACTION:
   Proposed regulation. preceding calendar quarter, and parties, including
   small entities, with adjusted each quarter thereafter. SUMMARY: The
   Office of Federal Housing greater certainty in future FDIC- (4)
   Principal amount. The proven Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO) is
   administered receiverships by claim amount and any interest accrued
   proposing to amend Appendix A to establishing a single uniform interest
   thereon as of the date the receivership Subpart B of 12 CFR Part 1750
   Risk- rate and method for making post- is established. Based Capital.
   The effect of these insolvency interest distributions. (5) Proven
   claim. A claim that is amendments would be to modify Accordingly, the
   Act's requirements allowed by a receiver or upon which a provisions
   relating to counterparty relating to an initial regulatory final
   non-appealable judgment has been haircuts, multifamily loans, and
   flexibility analysis are not applicable. entered in favor of a claimant
   against a refunding and to make several technical VerDate 112000 19:13
   Dec 17, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702
   E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No.
   243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed Rules 65147 adjustments and
   corrections. These assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet period,
   except for haircuts for below- amendments are intended to refine the
   obligations under severe credit and investment-grade providers and
   stress test model to tie capital more interest rate stress for a period
   of ten instruments, which are applied fully in closely to risk. years
   (stress period). The stress test the first month of the stress period.
   DATES: Written comments must be projects rates of default and
   prepayment The Rule applies one set of haircuts received by January 17,
   2002. for the mortgages guaranteed by the for non-derivative
   counterparties and securities, based on analysis of ADDRESSES: Send
   written comments Enterprises, as well as cash flows from concerning the
   proposal to Alfred these and other assets, liabilities, and historical
   bond default rates, and a Pollard, General Counsel, Office of
   off-balance-sheet obligations. Using different set of haircuts for
   derivative Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, these cash flows, the
   stress test counterparties, reflecting lower Fourth Floor, 1700 G
   Street, NW., produces monthly balance sheets for the expected loss
   severities associated with Washington, DC 20552. Written 120 months of
   the stress period in order the use of strong collateral agreements.
   comments may also be sent to Mr. to determine the amount of starting To
   further refine the Rule's treatment of Pollard by electronic mail at
   capital that would be necessary to haircuts, OFHEO proposes to improve
   RegComments@ofheo.gov. OFHEO maintain positive capital during the ten-
   consistency between haircuts for requests that written comments year
   stress period. Thirty percent of the derivative counterparties and
   securities submitted in hard copy also be amount of capital so
   determined is then and non-derivative counterparties and accompanied by
   the electronic version added to that amount to protect against
   securities by specifying default and in MS Word or in portable document
   management and operations risk. severity rates separately; to extend
   the OFHEO continuously seeks to format (PDF) on 3.5 disk. phase-in
   period from five to ten years; improve its measurements and formulas to
   provide for netting of exposures to FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: to
   tie capital more closely to risk and the same derivative counterparty;
   and to Edward J. Szymanoski, Acting Associate works to ensure that the
   Rule supports provide for an exception to the BBB Director, Office of
   Risk Analysis and the safety and soundness regime created haircut for
   certain unrated seller/ Model Development, telephone (202) by Congress.
   In the preamble to the servicers as described in the proposed 4143763
   (not a toll-free number), or Rule, OFHEO expressed its intention to
   rule. David Felt, Associate General Counsel, review, on an ongoing
   basis, the Default Rates. OFHEO proposes to use telephone (202) 4143750
   (not a toll-free operation of the stress test and its the Rule's
   haircut rates for non- number), Office of Federal Housing various
   components and to evaluate the derivative counterparties and securities
   Enterprise Oversight, Fourth Floor, 1700 need for revisions and
   improvements. as the cumulative default rates for all G Street, NW.,
   Washington, DC 20552. Also, OFHEO committed to act counterparties and
   securities, but to The telephone number for the expeditiously to remedy
   any technical lower slightly the default rate for AA-
   Telecommunications Device for the Deaf and operational issues that
   arise during rated firms. After re-evaluating the is (800) 8778339. the
   one-year implementation period historical data on differences in
   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: following promulgation. OFHEO is now
   performance of AA-rated and AAA- proposing to make refinements and
   Comments rated firms, including data that recently technical
   adjustments and corrections to has become available to OFHEO, the The
   Office of Federal Housing the Rule to tie capital more closely to
   Rule's default ratio of three to one Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO)
   invites risk. Technical changes are included in (based largely on the
   average exposure comments on the proposed regulation this proposal
   rather than issued as a over the past 80 years) appears to be and will
   take all comments into final regulation to provide a more than is
   warranted for a period of consideration before issuing the final
   comprehensive package of changes. economic stress. Data were recently
   regulation. Copies of all comments will made available to OFHEO by
   Moody's be posted on the OFHEO internet web A. Proposed Changes to
   Counterparty Investors Service 2 for the worst annual site at
   http://www.ofheo.gov. In Haircuts cohorts of U.S. investment-grade
   issuers addition, copies of all comments The Rule gives the Enterprises
   credit since 1920, the cohorts formed at the received will be available
   for for cash payments that would be beginning of 1929, 1930, and 1931.
   The examination by the public at the Office received during the stress
   period from average 10-year default rate for AA-rated of Federal
   Housing Enterprise securities and various counterparties, issuers
   (12.25 percent) was 2.6 times as Oversight, Fourth Floor, 1700 G
   Street, such as mortgage insurance companies large as the average
   default rate for NW., Washington, DC 20552. and derivative
   counterparties. However, because Enterprise counterparties are
   AAA-rated issuers (4.72 percent), and Background themselves likely to
   be adversely the ratio for the worst of those years was only 2.2.
   Furthermore, a study of On September 13, 2001, OFHEO affected by the
   economic conditions of corporate bond quality by W. Braddock published
   a final regulation setting forth the stress period and to default on
   some Hickman shows 12-year default rates for a risk-based capital
   stress test, (Rule) 1 or all of their obligations, the stress test the
   cohort formed at the beginning of that is the basis for determining the
   risk- discounts the value of cash payments 1928 for AA-rated issuers
   (12.3 percent) based capital requirement for the received during the
   stress period by a to be 1.5 times as large as that for AAA- Federally
   sponsored housing specified percentage, based on the rated issuers (8.1
   percent).3 More recent enterprises-Federal National Mortgage public
   credit rating of the security or data, in relatively favorable economic
   Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal counterparty. The amount by which
   Home Loan Mortgage Corporation cash payments from a counterparty or 2
   For purposes of this proposal, Moody's Investors (Freddie Mac)
   (collectively, the security are discounted in each month Service
   provided information on ``Letter Enterprises). The risk-based capital
   of the stress period is the haircut. The Cumulative Default Rates (from
   01/01/29 to 01/01/ specified haircut percentages increase as 31)'' on
   October 16, 2001. Data may be obtained stress test set forth in the
   Rule simulates from Moody's Investors Service by contacting Mr. the
   performance of each Enterprise's the credit rating declines-the lower
   Steve Liebling at Liebling@Moody's.com. that rating, the more severe
   the haircut. 3 W. Braddock Hickman, ``Corporate Bond 1 Risk-based
   Capital, 66 FR 47730 (September 13, In the Rule, the haircuts are
   phased in Quality and Investor Experience,'' 190 National 2001). over
   the first five years of the stress Bureau of Economic Research (1958).
   VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt
   4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 65148 Federal
   Register / Vol. 66, No. 243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed
   Rules circumstances, also show greater defaults in 1930 to 1943.7
   Moody's has To develop loss severity rates for similarity in the
   performance of issuers reported average recovery rate estimates
   defaulted derivative contracts, OFHEO in these two rating categories.
   However, that are substantially lower during examined changes in
   Treasury security a partially offsetting factor is that recessions, and
   fall as low as 20 percent interest rates over periods of ten Moody's
   data for both depression during the 1930s.8 For 1930 to 1943, business
   days during the past 25 years. cohorts and averages of all cohorts show
   Moody's average was 36 percent, For five-year Treasury securities, that
   defaults of AAA-rated issuers that despite higher rates during the
   latter increases in yields of more than 7.5 occur within 10 years after
   the cohort is years of that period. A somewhat lower percent and
   decreases of more than 5.0 formed occur later in the 10-year period
   projection for the stress period used in percent, respectively, have
   occurred than those of AA-rated issuers. the rule is, therefore,
   appropriate. infrequently-roughly 1 percent and 4 The relationship
   between AA and All of the recovery studies show some percent,
   respectively, of the time.10 AAA defaults is particularly relevant
   differences in recovery rates depending Thus, severity rates that
   reflect losses because most Enterprise counterparty on the presence or
   absence of secured or associated with yield changes of these and
   security exposures are either AAA- subordinated status. However, such
   magnitudes should be reasonably or AA-rated. An excessive differential
   status is a factor used in determining conservative. between these
   ratings in the stress test ratings. Moody's expressly states that For
   application in the stress test's could create inappropriate business
   securities with different status may have cash flow model, OFHEO must
   translate incentives for the Enterprises. After similar probabilities
   of default, but be such changes into impacts on net weighing the above
   considerations, rated differently in recognition of the derivative cash
   flows. During the stress OFHEO proposes to lower the effect of security
   or subordination on period, net derivative cash flows are cumulative
   default rate for AA-rated likely recoveries.9 Thus, a secured related
   to changes in the ten-year counterparties and securities to 12.5
   instrument may have a somewhat higher Treasury yield-75 percent in the
   up-rate percent (from 15 percent), which will be probability of default
   than average for scenario and 50 percent in the down- 2.5 times the
   rate for AAA-rated its rating, but also have a somewhat rate scenario.
   For example, in the up- counterparties and securities. higher
   expectation of recovery. rate scenario, with its flat yield curve,
   Severity Rates. To further refine risk Accordingly, OFHEO proposes to
   the pay side of a ten-year pay-fixed/ measurement in the stress test,
   OFHEO specify a recovery rate of 30 percent (70 receive-floating swap
   implemented just proposes to take explicit account of percent loss
   severity rate) for all non- before the start of the stress test would
   potential recoveries in the event of derivative counterparties and
   securities remain at its original rate and the default by introducing a
   loss severity with investment-grade ratings. receive side would rise to
   175 percent factor. Before issuing the Rule, OFHEO OFHEO also proposes
   to maintain, of the original pay-side rate. Thus, the received mixed
   comments regarding with alteration, special treatment for swap would
   have net annual cash flows incorporation of recovery projections for
   derivative counterparty exposures. for the last nine years of the
   stress test non-derivative security and Current exposures are marked to
   market roughly equal to 75 percent of the initial counterparty
   obligations after default. at least weekly, and high quality fixed rate
   used in the swap multiplied Such recoveries were not part of the
   collateral is posted against any by the notional value. This is ten
   times proposed rule, however, and OFHEO significant exposures by
   counterparties the 7.5 percent market yield change that decided not to
   include them at that with less than a AAA rating. The may be associated
   with losses on a time, pending further consideration. Enterprises
   retain the right to require derivative counterparty default in the
   Historically, corporate bond recoveries substantial
   over-collateralization or to up-rate scenario. Accordingly, OFHEO have
   averaged about 40 percent (i.e., a transfer the contract to a new
   proposes to set severity rates for 60 percent loss severity rate) over
   long counterparty if a counterparty's rating is derivative exposures at
   ten percent.11 periods of time. A study of default and lowered to low
   investment-grade levels OFHEO recognizes that losses could recovery
   rates by Moody's shows an or worse. Thus, the principal risk is that be
   greater than ten percent if interest average recovery rate of 39
   percent over a relatively highly rated counterparty rates move
   exceptionally after a sudden the past 20 years.4 A study of defaulted
   may fail suddenly and that exposures default, or if an Enterprise
   failed to bond recoveries by Standard and Poor's rise between the time
   a contract was last replace a contract with a defaulting shows an
   average recovery rate of 44 collateralized and the time the
   counterparty and market yields percent from 1981 to 1997.5 The
   Enterprise takes action to transfer or 10 These percentages correspond
   to absolute Hickman study shows an average replace the contract. This
   period may be changes of 61 and 41 basis points, on average, recovery
   rate of 43 percent for large as much as ten business days. during the
   period, but would be less than half as issues from 1900 to 1943.6
   Recoveries The credit exposures on fixed-floating much at recent yield
   levels. interest rate swaps and swaptions (the 11 on Enterprise
   holdings of mortgage and Loss severities of counterparty defaults are
   vast majority of Enterprise derivative typically expressed as
   percentages of derivative other asset-backed securities and on market
   value at the time of default. However, the mortgage insurance claims
   would likely contracts) are closely tied to changes in stress test
   model reflects such losses as reductions be substantial also,
   benefiting from asset market yields of securities with in net
   derivative cash flows. For example, in the up- values in the former
   case and premium maturities equal to those of the swap or rate stress
   scenario, after a 75 percent increase in swaptions. When interest rates
   rise, an interest rates, a swap with a market value of zero income in
   the latter. at the start of the stress test (i.e., a fixed-pay rate
   Data on recoveries in unusually Enterprise's exposure rises on swaps
   for equal to the then-market rate) will have a stressful times are less
   favorable. which it receives the floating-rate side significantly
   increased market value during the Hickman reported an average recovery
   of the swap. When interest rates fall, an stress period. Since short-
   and long-term rates are Enterprises's exposure rises on swaps the same
   in the last nine years of the stress period rate of 34 percent for
   large issues for in the up-rate scenario, net derivative cash flows for
   which it receives the fixed-rate side. roughly equal the scenario-based
   change in long- 4 ``Default Recovery Rates of Corporate Bond term
   interest rates multiplied by the notional value, Issues: 2000,'' 26
   Moody's Investor's Service 7 Hickman, at 119. and the market value of
   the swap is the discounted (February 2001). 8 ``Historical Default
   Rates of Corporate Bond present value of these cash flows. A ten
   percent 5 ``Ratings Performance 1997: Stability of Issuers, 19201996,''
   12 Moody's Investor Service reduction in those cash flows thus reflects
   the Transition,'' 3 Standard and Poor's (August 1998). (January 1997).
   impact on market value of a 7.5 percent change in 6 Hickman, at 460. 9
   Moody's (2001), at 2425. interest rates. VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17,
   2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702
   E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No.
   243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed Rules 65149 continued to
   move unfavorably. recoveries beyond the collateral already default rate
   for each rating category by However, OFHEO also recognizes that held
   might be available. Thus, OFHEO the severity rate. The resulting
   haircuts yield changes near the time of a default judges that a ten
   percent severity rate for that are proposed are set forth in Table
   could easily be less unfavorable than the derivatives is adequate. 1
   below. 7.5 percent increase or 5 percent Haircuts. Under the proposal,
   haircuts decrease contemplated, and some would be determined by
   multiplying the TABLE 1-STRESS TEST HAIRCUT BY RATINGS CLASSIFICATION
   Derivative Non-Derivative Ratings Classification Contract Contract
   Counterparties Counterparties or Instruments Cash 0% 0% AAA 0.5% 3.5%
   AA 1.25% 8.75% A 2% 14% BBB 4% 28% Below BBB and Unrated 100% 100%
   Phase-In. Under the Rule, haircuts for years to ten years for
   investment-grade counterparty.12 No comments were investment-grade
   counterparties and counterparties and securities. Thus, for received on
   the proposal, and the Rule, securities are phased-in over the first
   credit exposures to firms and securities reflecting OFHEO's intent to
   model five years of the stress period, so that rated BBB and higher,
   defaults will master netting agreements, did not haircuts are close to
   zero in the first occur evenly throughout the stress specify a change
   from NPR2. However, month of the stress period and rise to period. due
   to a technical omission, OFHEO's their maximums in the 60th month,
   Netting of derivative counterparty intent to model master netting where
   they remain for the last five exposures. The Enterprises regularly
   agreements was not operationalized in years. In effect, all defaults
   occur within enter into derivatives contracts, the Rule. Recognition of
   master netting the first five years, and later haircuts to typically
   swaps, for debt and portfolio agreements would result in a more cash
   flows simply reflect the risk management purposes. These accurate
   measurement of the consequences of previous defaults, as contracts
   expose the Enterprises to the Enterprises' exposure to derivative
   defaulted counterparties are unable to risk of failure by a derivative
   counterparties. Further, recognition of meet their obligations. This
   conservative counterparty to perform its obligations master netting
   agreements is consistent approach takes into account that the as
   anticipated by the terms of the with OFHEO's intent to model interest
   rate shocks and house price contract. The Enterprises, consistent
   Enterprise contracts according to their shocks all occur in the first
   half of the with accepted risk management and respective terms, and
   such recognition stress period. Long-term average market practice,
   attempt to mitigate allows OFHEO to tie capital to risk with historical
   data show more evenly their derivative counterparty credit greater
   precision. The proposal would distributed defaults over time, but
   exposure through a number of methods, amend the Rule to model master
   netting available data for especially stressful including the use of
   master netting agreements explicitly, as originally periods (e.g., the
   1910s and 1930s) give agreements. Master netting agreements
   contemplated in NPR2. little indication of timing. The recently are
   used by the Enterprises when they OFHEO notes that this technical
   obtained unpublished data from engage in multiple swap transactions
   correction will require an Moody's shows that for the worst cohort with
   the same counterparty. A master implementation period to allow for
   (starting in the beginning of 1930), only netting agreement permits an
   Enterprise development and completion of the 57 percent of ten-year
   investment-grade to determine its aggregate total credit software
   changes that will allow OFHEO defaults occurred during the first five
   exposure to a particular counterparty by to model master netting
   agreements. years. While the principal shocks may netting the gains and
   losses across all of Therefore, during the implementation of occur
   somewhat earlier in the stress the contracts with that counterparty.
   the technical correction, OFHEO will period than they did for issuers
   in the This approach allows the Enterprises to recognize the risk
   mitigation effects of 1930s, a closer approximation of the net their
   exposures at the counterparty such agreements by reducing the
   historical patterns may better reflect the level, rather than netting
   at the haircuts for derivatives contracts. Upon ability of most highly
   rated firms to individual contract level. implementation of the
   technical survive severe stresses for many years. In NPR2, OFHEO
   proposed a correction, maximum haircuts for Some of those that
   ultimately fail during methodology to recognize this practice
   derivative contract counterparties will the stress period may
   reasonably be by modeling the terms of master netting be readjusted and
   netting by expected to fail during its final years. agreements and then
   applying specified counterparty will be implemented in the Accordingly,
   OFHEO proposes to haircuts to the resulting net amount software. The
   interim treatment will extend the phase-in period from five due, if
   any, from each derivatives remain effective only for the period 12 NPR2
   refers to the Second Notice of Proposed Rulemaking issued by OFHEO
   before the Rule. 64 FR 18084, 18159 (April 13, 1999). VerDate 112000
   19:13 Dec 17, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702
   E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 65150 Federal Register / Vol.
   66, No. 243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed Rules required to
   complete the technical model master netting agreements. The contract
   counterparties are as shown in software modifications necessary to
   interim and final haircuts for derivative the Table 2 below: TABLE
   2-STRESS TEST HAIRCUTS FOR DERIVATIVE CONTRACT COUNTERPARTIES Haircuts
   for Haircuts for Derivative Derivative Number of Ratings Classification
   Counterparties Counterparties prior to Imple- upon Imple- Phase-in
   mentation of mentation of Months Netting Netting Cash 0% 0% N/A AAA
   0.3% 0.5% 120 AA 0.75% 1.25% 120 A 1.2% 2.0% 120 BBB 2.4% 4.0% 120
   Below BBB and Unrated 100% 100%1 Unrated Seller/servicers. The Rule
   model include (1) a respecification of than one means that the NOI is
   treats unrated seller/servicers as BBB- explanatory variables which has
   the insufficient to cover the required rated counterparties. OFHEO
   recognizes effects of reducing the model's mortgage payment, an
   occurrence that that certain unrated seller-servicers to sensitivity to
   debt-service coverage suggests a high probability of default. whom
   underwriting and servicing ratios (DCRs) falling below one and The
   stress test projects the DCR in each authority has been delegated enter
   into reducing predicted cumulative default month of the stress period
   from the loss-sharing agreements with the rates on adjustable rate
   mortgages prior month's value by updating NOI, Enterprises and
   collateralize these loss- (ARMs) in the up-rate stress test, and (2)
   using rent growth rates and rental sharing obligations with fully
   funded an increase to the initial vacancy rate vacancy rates that
   reflect the economic reserve accounts pledged to the used to update DCR
   during the stress conditions of the benchmark region and Enterprise.
   OFHEO is proposing to test making this rate consistent with the period,
   and adjusting mortgage amend the Rule to permit a higher rating
   benchmark region's vacancy rate from payments monthly according to the
   note than BBB for these seller-servicers if the the month prior to the
   start of the terms and the stress test interest rate fully funded
   reserve account is equal to benchmark period.13 OFHEO is also scenario.
   When this method is used to or greater than an amount determined
   proposing changes for the multifamily project DCR, the types of loans
   for by OFHEO to be adequate to support the loss severity parameters
   that reflect the which the projected DCR falls below risk borne by the
   seller-servicer under costs, timing, and recoveries associated one tend
   to be fixed rate mortgages the loss sharing agreement. For with a
   larger and more broad-based set (FRMs) that started the stress test
   with example, if the loss-sharing obligation of of Enterprise
   foreclosures. The Rule a low DCR and, in the up-rate scenario, a
   seller-servicer participating in Fannie reflects a decision not to
   model the most ARM loans, resulting in Mae's Delegated Underwriting and
   complexities of prepayment premiums comparatively high cumulative
   default Servicing (DUS) Program is that may or may not be received by
   the rates for these loans in the stress test. collateralized by a fully
   funded reserve Enterprises during stressful periods OFHEO has found
   that the UWDCRF account that is equal to or greater than without
   further study. The proposed adds value to the multifamily default one
   percent of the seller-servicer's multifamily prepayment speeds are
   model by capturing the additional risk aggregate unpaid principal
   balance more consistent with that decision than of default when NOI is
   insufficient to covered by the loss-sharing agreement at existing
   pre-payment speeds. Each cover mortgage payments, but is the start of
   the stress test, the rating of proposed change is discussed in turn.
   concerned that the sensitivity of the issuer of the instrument backing
   the Underwater Debt Coverage Ratio flag predicted monthly defaults to
   projected reserve account may be used, in lieu of (UWDCRF). In the
   Rule, the multifamily DCR falling below one may be too great, BBB, as
   the rating of the unrated seller- default model included an Underwater
   for two reasons. First, the UWDCRF is servicer, except that in no event
   will the Debt Coverage Ratio Flag (UWDCRF), an indicator that is only
   turned on when rating exceed AA. Determinations of the intended to
   cover the additional default DCR is projected to be below one, and
   required reserve amount and the rating risk posed when the projected
   debt is turned off otherwise. There are no permitted would be made on a
   program- service coverage ratio-net operating finer gradations for this
   explanatory by-program and Enterprise-by- income (NOI) divided by
   mortgage variable such as those that might be Enterprise basis.
   payment-falls below one during the captured if the projected DCR
   accounted B. Proposed Changes to Multifamily stress test. A debt
   coverage ratio less for individual property dispersion Model around the
   mean.14 In the application of 13 The terms ``benchmark region and
   period'' refer OFHEO is proposing a number of to the regional credit
   loss experience identified by 14 In the Rule's single-family default
   and changes to the multifamily default OFHEO in compliance with the
   ``Credit Loss'' prepayment models, the level of borrower equity in
   parameters outlined in Title XIII of the Housing and the property
   (property value less mortgage debt) is model, multifamily loss severity
   Community Development Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. analogous to multifamily
   DCR in that both measures parameters, and multifamily 102550, known as
   the Federal Housing Enterprises capture economic stress. The
   circumstance of a prepayment speeds specified in the Financial Safety
   and Soundness Act of 1992 (1992 single-family mortgage borrower having
   negative Rule. Proposed changes to the default Act), as described in
   additional detail in NPR2. equity is similar to that of a multifamily
   loan having VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm
   00010 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 Federal
   Register / Vol. 66, No. 243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed
   Rules 65151 the stress test, many multifamily loan a cumulative default
   rate of 95 percent counterparts. Arguing against the groups will have
   DCRs projected to fall in the up-rate scenario. These excessive
   inclusion of an ARM flag is the below one-some only slightly below
   default rates for ARMs in the up-rate improvement in the Enterprises'
   one, while others fall well below one. stress test arise from two
   principal multifamily ARM underwriting in The additional risk of
   default may be sources. First, the up-rate stress test recent years,
   which means that, over overstated for those loan groups with projects
   declining DCRs for ARMs, and time, differences in risk between loan
   DCRs projected to fall only slightly two explanatory variables in the
   default types due to differences in borrower below one by the abrupt
   transition of model translate declining DCRs into characteristics will
   disappear. That is, the UWDCRF variable. Second, even higher default
   rates: the DCR variable, the choice of ARM versus FRM in the when a
   multifamily property's DCR itself, and the UWDCRF, where multifamily
   mortgage market may be does fall below one, only a fraction of
   applicable. The second source is from becoming a strategic business
   decision borrowers default, indicating that those the application of an
   ARM product-type related to professional financial who do not default
   may carry their flag-New Book ARM Flag (NAF)- management considerations
   and may, as properties with funds from other which further raises the
   predicted ARM a result, have a declining relationship to sources for a
   period of time while they default rates. OFHEO included the ARM
   borrower credit quality. try to remedy the negative cash flow product
   flag in the Rule because it OFHEO decided that the excessive position.
   observed in the historical data from the predicted default rates for
   ARM loans in For these reasons, OFHEO decided to Enterprises that ARM
   defaults appear to the up-rate stress test warranted re-estimate the
   multifamily default be higher than those of otherwise investigation of
   the default model's model with a revised definition of the comparable
   FRMs even after controlling specification of ARM product type flags.
   UWDCRF that turns the flag on only for DCR changes due to interest rate
   OFHEO sought to determine if a when the DCR is projected to be well
   changes. respecification of the model could below one. As a result of
   that re- The stress test projects DCR in each maintain a reasonable
   relationship to estimation, OFHEO proposes to redefine month of the
   stress period from the the historical data while producing the UWDCRF
   to be equal to one (that is, prior month's value using rent growth more
   reasonable results in the stress to turn the flag on) when projected
   DCR rates and vacancy rates that reflect the test. First, the
   estimation was performed is less than 0.98 (that is, when NOI is
   economic conditions of the benchmark without either of the two product
   type more than two percentage points below region and period along with
   monthly flags, the NAF and the New Book the mortgage payment), rather
   than mortgage payment adjustments Balloon Flag (NBLF). If the only
   setting the flag equal to one immediately according to the note terms
   and the additional risk associated with ARMs when the projected DCR
   falls below one. stress test interest rate scenarios. In the relative
   to FRMs resulted from the The re-estimated multifamily default up-rate
   scenario, the mortgage payment impact of rate changes on mortgage model
   has a slightly lower coefficient on adjustments on ARMs cause the
   payments and DCR, then this UWDCR, and the coefficients for the
   projected DCR to fall much more than specification for the default
   model other explanatory variables do not that of an otherwise
   comparable FRM. might be appropriate. OFHEO found, change materially.
   Simulations using This more rapid decline in DCR causes however, that
   this model specification the revised UWDCRF definition result predicted
   defaults on ARMs to be higher caused another explanatory variable, the
   in lower predicted default rates for than those of otherwise comparable
   Ratio Update Flag (RUF) to be no longer ARMs in the up-rate scenario
   and for FRMs, as one would expect, because statistically significant.
   Next, OFHEO FRMs with low initial DCR in both mortgage payments on an
   ARM may re-estimated the model without the scenarios, making the model
   less grow to exceed net operating income Ratio Update Flag. The result
   of the sensitive to the UWDCRF than the from the property. In addition,
   the NAF second re-estimation produced, as existing model. The revised
   definition further raises new book ARM defaults expected, an averaging
   effect between does not substantially affect the relative to comparable
   new book FRMs New Book ARM and FRM default predicted default rates for
   most FRMs or to capture performance differences not for ARMs in the
   down-rate scenario. related to projected changes in DCR. rates-that is,
   the size of the coefficient 15 OFHEO believes the respecified model The
   theoretical justification for the for New Book loans decreased (the
   more accurately captures the added inclusion of an ARM flag to account
   for coefficient remained negative but had a risks associated with loans
   that have performance differences not related to smaller absolute
   value), reflecting the negative cash flow in the stress test. ARM
   payment changes is that ARM fact that the NBF was now averaging the ARM
   Flags. OFHEO is concerned that borrowers may possess higher credit
   product type differences that are predicted cumulative default rates
   for risk qualities than their fixed-rate currently separated out by the
   product ARM loans are excessive in the up-rate type flags in the Rule.
   This specification also reduced the sensitivity of defaults 15
   scenario. For example, a typical ARM The Rule includes a New Book ARM
   flag (NAF) and a New Book Balloon flag (NBLF) as product- purchased by
   an Enterprise could have to the distinction between New Book type
   offsets to the New Book flag (NBF), which is and Old Book loans,
   holding other a categorical (or dummy) variable that distinguishes a
   DCR below one because both are associated with factors constant,
   because it no longer between ``Old Book'' loans that were made when
   increased likelihood of default. However, in the the Enterprises first
   entered into the multifamily distinguished between loans for which
   single-family model, negative equity is captured as business (before
   1988 for Fannie Mae and before loan-to-value ratio (LTV) and DCR ratios
   a probability and enters the model as categorical 1993 for Freddie Mac)
   and ``New Book'' loans made are updated and those for which they
   variable having eight possible values. These eight under their more
   recent restructured programs. gradations for the probability of
   negative equity are not.16 OFHEO's research indicates that New Book
   loans improve the single-family model by avoiding abrupt have shown
   lower defaults than Old Book loans in predicted transitions from
   positive to negative general, although the amount of improvement 16
   This effect is captured in the Rule by the Ratio equity. OFHEO is able
   to calculate the probability varies significantly among product types.
   Update Flag (RUF). Specifically, the RUF identifies of negative equity
   for single-family loans because Specifically, New Book fixed-rate
   balloon loans a subset of New Book loans-those for which the projected
   property value changes are based on outperformed Old Book fixed-rate
   balloon loans to loan-to-value ratio (LTV) and debt-service coverage
   OFHEO's House Price Index and its associated a lesser degree than their
   fixed-rate fully amortizing ratio (DCR) have been calculated or
   delegated to dispersion parameters. No similar measures of
   counterparts. ARM loan performance differentials have been calculated
   by the Enterprises at loan dispersion are currently available to
   project were even smaller. These differences are reflected origination
   or for which the LTV and DCR have multifamily DCR or the probability of
   DCR falling in the Rule in the NBLF and NAF offsets to the been
   recalculated or delegated to have been below one. NBF. Continued
   VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt
   4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 65152 Federal
   Register / Vol. 66, No. 243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed
   Rules OFHEO rejected the above model re- OFHEO believes that a similar
   The proposed change is to set the specification, which eliminates the
   distinction between ratio-updated FRMs initial vacancy rate at ten
   percent, NAF, the NBLF, and the RUF, because and not-ratio-updated FRMs
   should which is the estimated WSC Census it ignored two important
   factors that exist even though there are too few not- division vacancy
   rate in 1983. Thus, the OFHEO has observed in Enterprise ratio-updated
   FRMs in the Enterprises' vacancy rate change in the initial month
   historical data. First, OFHEO considered historical data to confirm the
   of the stress test would be from ten the evidence of higher Enterprise
   ARM hypothesis. As a result, OFHEO percent to 13.6 percent. default
   rates, compared with FRM proposes to multiply monthly Loss Severity.
   Loss severity default rates during historical periods conditional
   default rates for not-ratio- parameters in the Rule were based upon
   when interest rates were flat to updated FRMs by a factor of 1.2 times
   the experience of 705 Freddie Mac declining. Since flat-to-declining
   the rates for otherwise comparable ratio- multifamily REO 19 properties
   from the interest rates lead to stable or lower updated FRMs to reflect
   the marginally 1980s. OFHEO has now analyzed data ARM payments and
   therefore stable or higher risk expected with those loans. reflecting
   the costs, timing, and recovery higher DCRs, all else equal, OFHEO
   OFHEO believes that, given the rates associated with additional REO
   suspected that factors unrelated to Enterprise data, the proposal
   handles a that has been made available from both interest-rate-related
   ARM payment very complicated issue fairly and with Enterprises. Based
   upon that analysis, changes (such as borrower credit statistical
   soundness and good OFHEO is proposing to modify the quality) may still
   be underlying the judgment. If, in the future, Enterprise multifamily
   severity parameters to take higher observed ARM default rates. data
   show no differences between ARM into consideration the performance of
   Second, OFHEO found substantial and FRM risk other than the adverse
   Fannie Mae REO in the 1980s and both differences in observed default
   rates for effect of rising interest rates on ARM Enterprises' more
   recent multifamily ratio-updated versus not-ratio-updated payments and
   ARM DCR, OFHEO may REO. The multifamily loss severity loans in
   Enterprise historical data. revisit this issue. calculations that use
   the severity Ratio-updated loans appear to perform Initial Vacancy
   Rate. Estimated rent parameters in the Rule would not better than those
   that are not, holding growth for the first month of the stress change.
   Specifically, OFHEO proposes other factors constant. test is based on
   the relative change in a reducing net REO holding costs to seven
   Therefore, OFHEO proposes to re- rent index from immediately prior to
   the percent from 13.33 percent and specify its multifamily default
   model as stress test to month one of the stress increasing REO sales
   proceeds from follows. The proposed model has the test.17 However, the
   estimated vacancy 58.88 percent to 63 percent of the same explanatory
   variables as the model rate change in the first month of the unpaid
   principal balance as of the in the Rule, except that NAF, NBLF, and
   stress test does not look back to the default date. Additionally, OFHEO
   RUF are removed, and a respecified flag value of the vacancy rate
   immediately proposes reducing the time from default is introduced that
   captures both the prior to the stress test, but rather to foreclosure
   completion from 18 to 9 distinction between ARMs and FRMs compares the
   vacancy rate in month one months while increasing the time from and the
   distinction between ratio- of the stress test with a long-term REO
   acquisition to REO disposition updated and not-ratio-updated loans.
   national historical average vacancy rate. from 13 to 15 months.
   Changing these Specifically, the new variable OFHEO is To be
   consistent, the change in vacancy severity parameters yields a 44
   percent proposing in its respecified default rates between the period
   immediately ``baseline'' severity rate, as compared to model is a
   Not-Ratio-updated ARM Flag prior to the stress test and month one of
   the 55 percent ``baseline'' produced by (NRAF) which takes a value of
   one (that the stress test should be based on the the model in the Rule.
   ``Baseline'' is, it is turned on) if a loan is both an change in the
   benchmark region severity is a simple way to compare one ARM and not
   ratio-updated, and zero vacancy rate from the month prior to the set of
   severity parameters with otherwise. Because nearly all of the benchmark
   period to the first month of another.20 ARM loans in Enterprise
   historical data the benchmark period. OFHEO views Prepayment Penalties.
   In the Rule, no are not ratio-updated, but nearly all of this change as
   a technical correction. credit is given for cash flows from prepayment
   penalties and yield the FRMs are ratio-updated, OFHEO Specifically, the
   vacancy rate change maintenance provisions. Nevertheless, determined
   that it is statistically in the Rule in the initial month of the the
   Rule provides that two percent of difficult to fully separate these
   effects as stress test is from the Census Bureau's loans that are
   subject to such penalties measures of historical performance. The
   long-term national historical average of or provisions prepay each year
   of the proposed model with the NRAF variable 6.23 percent to the West
   South Central stress test in the down-rate scenario. In would apply
   this new variable (WSC) Census division's estimated the preamble to the
   Rule, OFHEO coefficient during the stress test January, 1984, rate of
   13.6 percent, with explained that the data indicated that a simulation
   only to ARM loans that are changes thereafter based upon changes small
   percentage of loans did prepay not ratio-updated, capturing the in
   rates through 1993 in that region.18 while subject to yield maintenance
   historical performance differences of This specification has the effect
   of provisions and that OFHEO had no data these ARMs after controlling
   for imposing a greater percentage increase indicating to what extent
   prepayment payment changes. ARM loans that have in vacancies than
   appears to have penalties were actually paid by undergone the
   ratio-update process occurred during the benchmark loss borrowers, as
   opposed to waived by the would not be subject to higher default
   experience. Enterprises or added to the balances of risk imposed by the
   NRAF, thereby refinanced loans. Because it is likely 17 reducing the
   differential between ARM Specifically, the twelfth root of month over
   that some prepayment penalties are paid same month previous year rent
   indices minus one. and FRM defaults in the up-rate or other
   compensating consideration is 18 Reporting of vacancy rate data for
   Metropolitan scenario for those loans. Statistical Area located in the
   WSC Census division began in 1986. As a result, 1984 and 1985 rates 19
   REO is real estate owned as a result of loan recalculated by the
   Enterprises at Enterprise were estimated based on national rates using
   the default. acquisition according to current underwriting ratio of WSC
   Census division rates to U.S. rental 20 The ``baseline'' consists of a
   simple adding up standards. New Book loans for which origination
   vacancy rates in 1986, a factor of 2.3. For 1983, a of the cost
   components of the rate, without and/or acquisition LTV and DCR are
   unknown lower factor of 1.8 is assumed because it predates considering
   discounting, credit enhancements, or cannot be considered to be
   ratio-updated. the WSC Census division's recession. passthrough
   interest on sold loans. VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO
   00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN:
   18DEP1 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001
   / Proposed Rules 65153 received by the Enterprises, OFHEO charged
   because many of the special status. It is reasonable, therefore,
   decided to include some prepayments Enterprises' hedging instruments
   are to use a much smaller premium than on these loans in the down-rate
   based upon rates other than Treasuries might be appropriate for a
   non-GSE in scenario, but at a lower rate than (e.g., LIBOR, COFI). The
   spreads a similar stress test. OFHEO also indicated by the data in
   order to take between these rates and Treasuries considers it
   appropriate to consider that prepayment penalties into account. could
   be expected to widen during the stresses affecting the Enterprises in
   OFHEO is proposing to modify the stressful conditions, thus mitigating
   the the stress test would also be affecting Rule to provide for no
   prepayments in Enterprises' risk. In light of these other borrowers in
   the market place. To the down-rate scenario inside comments, OFHEO
   postponed assume that they do not, as was the case prepayment penalty
   or yield imposition of any new debt premium in NPR2, which proposed a
   50-basis- maintenance periods. This approach is pending later
   refinements of the Rule. point premium, is inconsistent with the more
   consistent with OFHEO's Nevertheless, OFHEO indicated that the stress
   implied in the haircuts that the preference to model contractual
   implicit assumption in the stress test stress test applies to all
   counterparties instruments according to their terms, that the spreads
   of an Enterprise's debt of the Enterprises. An ideal stress test but
   recognizes that modeling these yields to other interest rates would be
   might model different spreads for penalties according to their terms
   would unaffected by the deteriorating different interest rate series, a
   complex be immensely complicated, because condition of the Enterprise
   ignored an approach that OFHEO could not those terms vary greatly from
   loan to area of significant risk. implement in the foreseeable future.
   loan. The proposed approach is a The risk of wider spreads in a The
   ten-basis-point premium, therefore, reasonable simplification because
   stressful period is important if asset can be viewed as a simplifying
   prepayment penalty provisions are lives, which are unusually long in
   the assumption, which gives some effect to actually liquidated damages
   clauses, up-rate scenario, exceed terms-to- the possibility that stress
   period market which are intended to give the lender maturity of
   outstanding debt. In support conditions could impact an Enterprise the
   benefit of full performance on the of this proposal, OFHEO notes that
   more adversely than the rest of the loan. some funding strategies
   employed by market. C. Proposed Changes to Yields on the Enterprises
   depend significantly on D. Proposed Changes to New Debt Mix Enterprise
   Debt their ability to borrow in the future at relatively favorable
   interest rates. For The Rule provides for the funding of The Rule does
   not impose a premium example, the Enterprises often fund a all cash
   deficits by the issuance of new upon an Enterprise's cost of funds to
   portion of their mortgage asset portfolio long-or short-term debt,
   whichever is in reflect the reaction of the debt markets with
   short-term debt accompanied by shorter supply, until a 50/50 balance of
   to the financial stress imposed upon the interest rate swaps, in which
   they pay short-to long-term debt is reached in Enterprise. However, the
   preamble to a fixed rate and receive a floating rate. each Enterprise's
   portfolio. Thereafter, the Rule suggested that a premium If the
   floating rate they pay on their own long- and short-term debt are
   issued in might be appropriate and that this short-term debt is close
   to the floating whatever ratio best contributes to would likely be an
   area of future rate they receive on the swap, the net maintaining that
   balance. This approach change. Upon further study, OFHEO has effect is
   roughly the same as if they had was chosen because OFHEO did not found
   that it is appropriate for the stress issued long-term fixed-rate debt
   at the wish to include an assumption about test to recognize an
   increased cost of rate they pay on the swap. If, however, any
   particular behavioral preference by debt of ten basis points for an
   Enterprise their cost of short-term funds rises the Enterprises during
   the stress period. in the stress test vis-a-vis other significantly,
   relative to the index on On further consideration, however, borrowers
   in the debt markets. which the swap's floating rate is based, OFHEO
   proposes to change the target OFHEO proposed in NPR2 to impose their
   cost will be higher than if they had balance embodied in this approach.
   A a 50-basis-point premium on new issued long-term fixed-rate debt. Use
   of 50/50 balance is generally unsuitable for Enterprise debt for the
   last nine years of fixed-pay swaptions to hedge against the funding a
   portfolio of largely fixed-rate the stress period. The analysis that
   effect of rising interest rates on expected mortgage assets, and it
   could often OFHEO performed for NPR2 indicated asset lives creates a
   similar risk. result in a substantial change in an that debt spreads to
   Treasury rates have Although the spreads to Treasury rates Enterprise's
   funding structure during widened in times of financial stress for of
   other interests rates may also widen the stress period. OFHEO proposes
   to Government-sponsored enterprises in a stressful economic
   environment, replace the 50/50 target with the actual (GSEs). NPR2 did
   not propose the stress test is designed to be ratio of Enterprise debt
   obligations (as adjustments to reflect unusual stress for especially
   stressful to the Enterprises. adjusted by interest rate swaps) at the
   any other interest rate series in the The stress test involves factors,
   such as start of the stress period. Typically, the stress test. a
   decline in housing prices, that might Enterprises have a long-term debt
   to In the final rule, OFHEO took note of not affect the debt costs in
   other sectors total debt ratio (swap adjusted) of 70 the comments
   received in response to of the economy as much. OFHEO has percent to 90
   percent. Use of such ratios NPR2, some of which questioned the chosen
   to propose a ten-basis-point in the stress test will result in a more
   appropriateness of a premium on new spread for the final nine years of
   the realistic debt structure. Enterprise debt and the size of that
   stress period, in part to reflect these premium. OFHEO conceded that
   data risks. E. Miscellaneous Technical Changes upon which to base such
   a premium A ten-basis-point borrowing premium Operating Expenses. In
   the Rule, one may be too sparse to determine incorporates these risks
   in a modest third of an Enterprise's operating definitively whether
   other spreads to way. Firms in very stressful expenses at the start of
   the stress test Treasuries would widen as much as the circumstances
   frequently face premiums remain fixed throughout the stress
   Enterprises' spreads or to estimate how of several hundred basis
   points, if they period, while the remainder decline in much the
   Enterprises' spreads would are able to borrow at all. GSEs, though,
   proportion to the decline in the widen. The preamble to the final rule
   have always been able to borrow, even mortgage portfolio. The total of
   the fixed also noted that some commenters felt when they are in very
   poor financial and variable components is then that no premium on new
   debt should be condition, because of their perceived reduced by
   one-third to recognize that a VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17, 2001 Jkt
   197001 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04
   PsN: 18DEP1 65154 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 243 / Tuesday,
   December 18, 2001 / Proposed Rules cessation of new business would have
   a no haircut to foreign currency swaps, whether the proposed changes
   may raise significant impact upon operating but stated its intention to
   continue to novel policy issues. OFHEO is not expenses. The variable
   portion of the explore appropriate methodologies for required to
   provide the type of operating expenses for a given month is applying an
   appropriate haircut. In regulatory impact analysis that is determined
   by calculating the furtherance of its commitment to required for an
   economically significant Enterprise's mortgage portfolio at the
   continue to refine the stress test, rule. Nevertheless, in accordance
   with end of each month of the stress period OFHEO now proposes to
   eliminate the OMB's guidance that all regulatory as a percentage of the
   portfolio at the simplifying assumption and apply actions should be
   consistent with the start of the stress test. Starting-position
   haircuts to foreign currency swap principles of E.O. 12866, OFHEO has
   fixed-asset balances are held constant counterparties. Because the
   stress test determined, after review by agency over the ten-year stress
   period, while does not project foreign currency values, economists,
   financial analysts, and related depreciation is included in the the
   haircut is applied by adjusting the attorneys, that the benefits of the
   base on which operating expenses are pay (dollar-denominated) side of
   the proposed changes to the Rule calculated for each month of the
   stress swap upward by the amount of the substantially outweigh any
   economic period. The implication of this haircut percentage rather than
   costs. treatment is that fixed assets are being haircutting the
   foreign-currency receive It is impossible to estimate precisely
   regularly replaced throughout the side of the swap. the particular
   benefits and costs period, which appears inconsistent with American
   Call Option. As a associated with the risk-based capital the decline in
   financial assets as simplifying assumption in the Rule, an requirement.
   While OFHEO believes mortgages amortize and prepay. American call
   option, which allows the this group of enhancements and To address this
   inconsistency, issuer to exercise the option at any time, refinements
   to the stress test will not OFHEO is proposing to modify the is treated
   as a Bermudan call option, generally increase or decrease the stress
   test treatment of operating which allows the issuer to exercise the
   amount of required capital for an expenses by converting 75 percent of
   call only on a coupon date. However, in Enterprise to any substantial
   degree, the starting-position fixed-asset balances to the preamble to
   the Rule, OFHEO effect in any particular quarter depends cash over the
   ten-year stress period. The signaled its intention to consider how upon
   how well that Enterprise is hedged proposal would retain 25 percent of
   the American call options might be against the risks and conditions
   fixed assets on the Enterprise books modeled more precisely. OFHEO is
   now specified in the stress test. OFHEO throughout the stress period to
   reflect proposing to modify the stress test to cannot know whether or
   not hedges in the acquisition of some new fixed evaluate American calls
   on the first place at an Enterprise at the beginning assets, such as
   computer equipment, option date in the exercise schedule and of any
   quarter would have been in place which is likely even in a
   ``wind-down'' subsequent monthly anniversaries of the in the absence of
   specific provisions of scenario. The effect of this change is to
   instrument's first coupon date. the risk-based capital rule or were put
   reduce the Enterprises' need for debt to House Price Growth Factor in
   place because of the test. Speculating carry nonearning fixed assets.
   Clarification. The Rule requires the use Float Income. The Rule
   provides for as to what the Enterprises would do in of OFHEO's most
   recent House Price the modeling of float income associated the absence
   of specific provisions in Index as of the reporting date to with
   passthrough payments on future quarters is even more difficult.
   securities issued by the Enterprises. determine the house price growth
   factor Therefore, a detailed economic cost/ Float income can be
   positive or negative used to calculate current loan-to-value benefit
   analysis is not practical. depending on whether the Enterprise ratios.
   The proposal expands the Rather than trying to assess the costs holds
   the funds for a period of time instructions in Section 3.6 to clarify,
   and benefits of every change to the before remitting them to security
   consistent with Section 3.7, that when stress test, OFHEO looks to
   whether or holders or remits funds to security a loan was originated
   since the not the changes it is proposing make the holders before they
   are actually publication of that report, a cumulative Rule better
   reflect the risks faced by the received. When an Enterprise owns its
   house price growth factor of one is used. Enterprises. Improving the
   Rule in this own passthrough securities, the timing Technical
   Correction. The proposal manner should reduce the potential for of
   payment to itself is not relevant. adds a Prepayment Penalty Flag as an
   Enterprise insolvency by protecting However, the Rule includes these
   additional classification variable for better against interest rate,
   credit, and securities in the calculation of float multifamily loan
   groups, to distinguish management and operations risk. By income,
   resulting in an overstatement of loans with active prepayment penalties
   helping to ensure the safety and float income. OFHEO proposes to or
   yield maintenance provisions from soundness of the Enterprises, the
   correct this overstatement by reducing those without in the calculation
   of regulation allows them to continue to the float income on
   passthrough prepayment penalty duration for loan carry out their public
   purposes, which securities issued by the reporting groups. include
   providing stability in the Enterprise by the percentage of the
   Regulatory Impact secondary market for residential Enterprise's
   ownership interest. mortgages and providing access to However, when an
   Enterprise receives Executive Order 12866, Regulatory mortgage credit
   in central cities, rural prepayments and holds the funds for a Planning
   and Review areas, and underserved areas.21 In number of days during
   which investors The proposed amendment would addition, the regulation
   helps ensure accrue interest at the coupon rate of the amend a rule
   designated as a major rule that the Enterprises will continue to
   security, the difference between the by the Office of Management and
   provide benefits to the primary yield the Enterprise can earn on Budget
   (OMB). The proposed mortgage market, such as standardizing invested
   funds at that time of the stress amendment is a refinement of that rule
   business practices.22 period and the coupon rate will that would tie
   the capital more closely 21 1992 Act, section 1302(2) (12 U.S.C.
   4501(2)). continue to be reflected for the relevant to risk. Although
   the impact of that 22 ``Managing Risk in Housing Finance Markets:
   number of days. refinement is not economically Perspective from the
   Experience of the United Currency Swaps. As a simplifying significant,
   OMB has reviewed the States of America and Mexico,'' Mortgage Bankers
   assumption in the Rule, OFHEO applied proposed amendment to determine
   Association of America (June 11, 1998). VerDate 112000 19:13 Dec 17,
   2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702
   E:\FR\FM\18DEP1.SGM pfrm04 PsN: 18DEP1 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No.
   243 / Tuesday, December 18, 2001 / Proposed Rules 65155 Adopting the
   proposed amendment impact on small entities. Such an n. Revise
   paragraph 3.6.3.5.3.2 [a] will result in a capital requirement that
   analysis need not be undertaken if the 2.b.; corresponds more closely
   to capital agency has certified that the regulation o. Revise paragraph
   3.6.3.5.3.2 [a] 3.; levels that the marketp
