http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sav/savtxfaq.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   U.S. Savings Bonds FAQ Area
   line divider

                           Taxes and Savings Bonds

   This is a series of Frequently Asked Questions about taxes and savings
   bonds.

     * 1) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER ON BONDS RECEIVED AS GIFTS
        1.1) Our daughter received a savings bond as a gift. The person
            who gave the gift used his own Social Security Number to
            register the bond instead of our daughter's Social Security
            Number. Should we change the Social Security Number? If we
            don't change it, will the bond buyer be responsible for paying
            the taxes when we cash the bond?
     * 2) EXCHANGING SERIES E OR EE BONDS FOR SERIES HH BONDS
        2.1) I have some Series EE bonds that I'd like to exchange for
            Series HH bonds. How do I do this?
            2.2) What are the tax implications of redeeming a Series E
            bond and converting it to a Series HH bond?
     * 3) TAX LIABILITY
        3.1) My 12-year old daughter and I are listed as co-owners on
            several bonds. I'd like to cash some of these bonds and make
            sure my daughter has the tax liability. Is this possible?
     * 4) REISSUING SAVINGS BONDS TO REMOVE A CO-OWNER
        4.1) My husband and I currently own several savings bonds that
            have both of our names on them in the following form: John Doe
            or Jane Doe. We'd like to change the registration of these
            bonds so only one name appears on the bond. Can we do this?
            4.2) I'm a co-owner on several Series EE/E savings bonds with
            my deceased father. I'd like to have some of these bonds
            reissued to make my brother the owner and his son the
            co-owner. Am I subject to taxes on these bonds if my name is
            removed?
     * 5) TAX DEFERRAL WHEN CASHING SAVINGS BONDS
        5.1) I've bought and saved several thousand dollars' worth of
            savings bonds over the years. I want to redeem all or some of
            the bonds and put the funds into an Individual Retirement
            Account (IRA) so I can continue to defer interest. Is there a
            way to do this without having to pay tax on the interest
            earned when I redeem them?
            5.2) Is there any way to defer the taxes when cashing savings
            bonds to buy a home?
            5.3) I'm not sure how I should go about reporting savings bond
            interest for my taxes. Can you tell me what my options are?
     * 6) TAXES WHEN SAVINGS BONDS ARE CASHED FOR EDUCATION
        6.1) I'd like some general information about tax exemption when
            cashing bonds for education. Where can I get this information?
            6.2) If savings bonds are used to pay for college tuition, are
            they tax exempt? If so, what requirements must be met and what
            forms are necessary to claim exemption?
            6.3) When I bought savings bonds for my children's education,
            I was confused about how they should be registered to qualify
            for the education tax exclusion -- I mistakenly registered
            them in my children's names instead of my own. Can I get the
            name on these bonds changed so they qualify for the tax
            exclusion?
            6.4) I'm a U.S. citizen, but I live in Europe. If my child
            attends a university in Europe, I'd still like to use savings
            bonds I've bought for his educational expenses. How do I find
            out which schools qualify for this program?

                          horizontal separator bar

   1) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER ON BONDS RECEIVED AS GIFTS

   1.1) Our daughter received a savings bond as a gift. The person who
       gave the gift used his own Social Security Number to register the
       bond instead of our daughter's Social Security Number. Should we
       change the Social Security Number? If we don't change it, will the
       bond buyer be responsible for paying the taxes when we cash the
       bond?
       It's not necessary to have the savings bond reissued to show your
       daughter's Social Security Number. When your daughter cashes the
       bond, she must then provide her Social Security Number for Federal
       income tax and interest reporting purposes. (Although the Social
       Security Number on Series EE and E savings bonds is used for record
       keeping purposes, it's a good idea to keep a list of bond serial
       numbers separate from the bonds so they can be easily replaced if
       they're lost or stolen.)

                         Return to Table of Contents

2) EXCHANGING SERIES E OR EE BONDS FOR SERIES HH BONDS

       2.1) I have some Series EE bonds that I'd like to exchange for
       Series HH bonds. How do I do this?
       To exchange your Series EE bonds for Series HH bonds, you should:

    1. Take your EE bonds to a financial institution where you have an
       account (if possible, the institution should also be one that
       redeems EE savings bonds).
    2. Work with an officer or employee of that institution to complete an
       exchange application (PD F 3253), particularly the portion of the
       form that covers direct deposit of semiannual interest payments on
       the HH bonds. If the institution doesn't redeem EE bonds, it's a
       good idea for you to try completing the top part of the exchange
       application before you go to the bank.
       Note: The Savings Bond Wizard and PD F 3600, Tables of Redemption
       Values, are useful in determining how much your bonds are worth and
       how much interest the bonds have earned.
    3. As you complete the exchange application, sign the request for
       payment on the back of each bond.

   The institution processes your EE and E bonds through the commercial
   check collection system (if the institution is one that ordinarily
   redeems savings bonds). Otherwise, the institution guarantees or
   certifies your signature on the back of each of your EE bonds and sends
   those unredeemed, uncashed EE bonds to a Federal Reserve Bank that
   processes savings bonds. In either event, the institution sends your
   completed and signed exchange application to a Federal Reserve Bank and
   ensures that any additional funds required in the transaction are
   remitted.

   The total redemption value of the EE bonds being exchanged must be at
   least $500--the minimum HH bond denomination. EE bonds eligible for an
   exchange must be at least six months old, and EE bonds and E bonds are
   eligible up to one year from the month in which they reach final
   maturity and stop earning interest--30 years after issue for E bonds
   with December 1965 and later issue dates and for EE bonds; and, 40
   years after issue for E bonds with issue dates older than December
   1965.

   2.2) What are the tax implications of redeeming a Series E bond and
   converting it to a Series HH bond?

   If you exchange eligible Series E or EE bonds or savings notes for
   Series HH bonds, you can either:
     * include the accumulated ("accrued") E or EE bond or note interest
       on your Federal tax return for that year, OR
     * continue to postpone ("defer") doing so until you cash your HH
       bonds, you give up owning them, or your HH bonds stop earning
       interest--20 years after their issue date--whichever happens first.
       (To be eligible for an exchange, EE bonds have to be at least 6
       months old. EE/E bonds and savings notes are eligible for an
       exchange up to a year after the month in which they stop earning
       interest.)

                         Return to Table of Contents

3) TAX LIABILITY

       3.1) My 12-year old daughter and I are listed as co-owners on
       several bonds. I'd like to cash some of these bonds and make sure
       my daughter has the tax liability. Is this possible?
       If an owner or co-owner is a minor and not of sufficient competency
       and understanding to sign and make a request for payment, then a
       parent with whom the minor resides or to whom legal custody has
       been granted can request payment for the minor. A parent who cashes
       a bond for a minor or co-owner must sign a request on the back of
       each bond as follows:

     John A. Jones on behalf of John C. Jones
       That parent must also include the following statement on the back
       of each bond:

     "I certify that I am the parent of [name of minor] and the person
     with whom he/she resides [to whom legal custody has been granted].
     He/She is [age] years old and is not of sufficient competency and
     understanding to make this request."

   If a savings bond issued in the names of co-owners, such as you and
   your child, is cashed during the lifetime of both co-owners, the
   co-owner who bought the bond is generally liable for the interest
   earned, regardless of which co-owner cashed the bond. The following
   chart from IRS Publication 550 shows who pays Federal income tax on
   savings bond interest.


   How Bond is Bought Who Must Pay Tax on Bond Interest
   You use your funds to buy a bond in your name and the name of another
   person as co-owners. You.
   You buy a bond in the name of another person, who is the sole owner of
   the bond. The person for whom you bought the bond.
   You and another person buy a bond as co-owners, each contributing part
   of the purchase price. Both you and the other co-owner, in proportion
   to the amount each paid for the bond.
   You and your spouse, who live in a community property state, buy a bond
   that is community property. If you file separate returns, both you and
   your spouse generally pay tax on one-half.

                         Return to Table of Contents

4) REISSUING SAVINGS BONDS TO REMOVE A CO-OWNER

       4.1) My husband and I currently own several savings bonds that have
       both of our names on them in the following form: John Doe or Jane
       Doe. We'd like to change the registration of these bonds so only
       one name appears on the bond. Can we do this?
       Series I bonds can only be reissued to eliminate the name of a
       living co-owner if one or both the co-owners are involved in a
       divorce or an annulment of their marriage. You can use Form PD F
       5387 for this purpose. Send the form and the bonds to the Federal
       Reserve Bank that provides savings bond services for your region.
       Please note the transaction could be a taxable event. See Tax
       Consequences of Reissuing I Bonds for more information.
       Series EE/E and Series HH/H bonds can be reissued to eliminate the
       name of a living co-owner in this situation. The co-owner whose
       name is being removed needs to complete and sign Form PD F 1938 in
       accordance with the instructions printed on the form. If the bonds
       are being reissued to do more than remove the name of the living
       co-owner whose name is being removed, then both co-owners need to
       complete and sign the form. Send the form and the bonds to the
       Federal Reserve Bank that provides savings bond services for your
       region. Please note the transaction could be a taxable event. See
       Tax Consequences of Reissuing Savings Bonds for more information.
       4.2) I'm a co-owner on several Series EE/E savings bonds with my
       deceased father. I'd like to have some of these bonds reissued to
       make my brother the owner and his son the co-owner. Am I subject to
       taxes on these bonds if my name is removed?
       Yes, you'd be required to include all the bonds' previously
       accumulated interest on your Federal tax return you file for the
       year in which the bonds are re-registered ("reissued") to your
       brother and his son. This is true unless you can establish that
       some or all of that interest had been previously (and properly)
       reported by your father or whomever filed his final IRS 1040 for
       the year he died. For more information, read about the tax
       consequences of reissuing savings bonds and the savings bonds
       section in IRS Publication 550, "Investment Income and Expenses."
       It may also be helpful to take a look at IRS Publication 559,
       "Survivors, Executors, and Administrators."

                         Return to Table of Contents

5) TAX DEFERRAL WHEN CASHING SAVINGS BONDS

       5.1) I've bought and saved several thousand dollars' worth of
       savings bonds over the years. I want to redeem all or some of the
       bonds and put the funds into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA)
       so I can continue to defer interest. Is there a way to do this
       without having to pay tax on the interest earned when I redeem
       them?
       No, there's no way to do what you described without your having to
       include as income on your Federal tax return the savings bond
       interest earned. By continuing to hold the bonds, you can continue
       to postpone reporting the bonds' accumulated interest for Federal
       income tax purposes until they stop earning interest, or you can
       exchange at least $500 worth of them for HH bonds. EE bonds and E
       bonds with December 1965 and later issue dates stop earning
       interest 30 years after issue. E bonds with November 1965 and
       earlier issue dates stop earning interest 40 years after issue. For
       HH bonds, the interest earning life span is composed of two 10-year
       segments, for a total of 20 years. You have up to a year following
       the month in which an E or EE bond or savings note stops earning
       interest to include it in an exchange of at least $500 worth of
       EE/E bonds and notes for HH bonds.
       For more information, read IRS Publication 550, "Investment Income
       and Expenses," and IRS Publication 590, "Individual Retirement
       Arrangements (IRAs)."
       5.2) Is there any way to defer the taxes when cashing savings bonds
       to buy a home?
       No; however, you may find it helpful to read IRS Publication 550,
       "Investment Income and Expenses," and IRS Publication 530, "Tax
       Information for First-Time Homeowners."
       5.3) I'm not sure how I should go about reporting savings bond
       interest for my taxes. Can you tell me what my options are?
       If you own Series I, Series EE, or Series E bonds and use the cash
       method of reporting, you can:

    1. Postpone reporting the interest on your Federal income tax return
       until the year you cash the bonds, the year you give up owning
       them, or the year in which they finally mature (stop earning
       interest), whichever happens first; OR
    2. Choose to report the bonds' increases in value as interest each
       year.
       (Note: Under the cash method of accounting, you report your income
       for the year you actually receive it.)

   If you want to change your method of reporting savings bond interest
   from the first to the second method (outlined above), you can do so
   without notifying or getting permission from IRS. However, when filing
   your Federal income tax return for the year you change, you must
   include on that return all your bonds' interest accumulated to date
   that hasn't previously been reported.

   If you want to change your method of reporting savings bond interest
   from the second to the first method (outlined above), you can do so by
   filing IRS Form 3115 with IRS and following the procedures in the
   savings bonds section in IRS Publication 550, "Investment Income and
   Expenses."

   If you need help figuring out how much savings bond interest to include
   on your return under the second method mentioned above (reporting
   increases in value each year), get PD F 3501 mailed to you through our
   forms ordering system.

                         Return to Table of Contents

6) TAXES WHEN SAVINGS BONDS ARE CASHED FOR EDUCATION

       6.1) I'd like some general information about tax exemption when
       cashing bonds for education. Where can I get this information?
       Try the following sources of information about the education
       feature of savings bonds:

    1. You can find information on our site about the education feature in
       Savings Bonds for Education.
    2. You can find helpful information in the savings bonds section in
       IRS Publication 550, "Investment Income and Expenses," and on IRS
       Form 8815 and IRS Form 8818.

   6.2) If savings bonds are used to pay for college tuition, are they tax
   exempt? If so, what requirements must be met and what forms are
   necessary to claim exemption?
   Under the Educational Savings Bond Program, interest earned on Series
   EE and Series I bonds bought on or after January 1, 1990 may qualify
   for exclusion from income for Federal income tax purposes if the bond
   owner pays tuition and required fees at colleges and universities
   during the year the bonds are redeemed. To qualify for this exclusion,
   tuition or other educational expenses must be incurred by the taxpayer,
   his or her spouse, or his or her dependents. In addition, there are
   income and other limitations. Bonds intended for the education of a
   dependent child must be issued in the name(s) of the taxpayer(s) for
   whom the child is a dependent. The dependent child can't be named as
   owner or co-owner; however, the dependent may be named as beneficiary
   on the bonds.
   To obtain the necessary documentation and specific information, request
   the following from the Internal Revenue Service: IRS Publication 550,
   IRS Form 8815, and IRS Form 8818.

   6.3) When I bought savings bonds for my children's education, I was
       confused about how they should be registered to qualify for the
       education tax exclusion -- I mistakenly registered them in my
       children's names instead of my own. Can I get the name on these
       bonds changed so they qualify for the tax exclusion?
       As long as the bonds are Series I or Series EE and issued January
       1990 or later, you can request that they be "reissued" to correct
       the registration. To do this, complete and sign Form PD F 5387 (for
       Series I bonds) or PD F 4000 (for Series EE bonds). Your signature
       on the form should be guaranteed or certified by an authorized
       certifying officer (available at a bank, trust company, or credit
       union). Mail the completed form, along with the bonds, to the
       Federal Reserve Bank that handles savings bond transactions for
       your region.
       6.4) I'm a U.S. citizen, but I live in Europe. If my child attends
       a university in Europe, I'd still like to use savings bonds I've
       bought for his educational expenses. How do I find out which
       schools qualify for this program?
       IRS Publication 550, "Investment Income and Expenses," states that
       eligible "institutions include most public and nonprofit
       universities and colleges and certain vocational schools that are
       eligible for federal assistance." This seems to exclude European
       universities and colleges since they would be very unlikely to
       receive direct financial assistance from the U.S. government.

                         Return to Table of Contents

   This FAQ is maintained by the Bureau of the Public Debt's Savings Bond
       Operations Office. Keep in mind that these questions may not fit
       all situations and are only intended as guidelines.

                           Return to Main FAQ Menu

                          Updated December 28, 2001
