http://sdp.cit.nih.gov/open_agreements/adobe_desc.asp


   Skip Over Navigation Links
   Center for Information Technology Software Distribution Project
     Antivirus Home Page
   Contact Us
   Questions or Comments
   Disclaimers

      Information
   [1x1space.gif]
                  SDP Description
                  Contact Lookup
                  OEM Support
                  (Logon Required)
                  SPD Advisory Committee
      Open Agreements
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Absolute Description
                  Adobe Description
                  BindView Description
                  Macromedia Description
      Catalogs
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Abobe Catalog
                  Macromedia Catalog
      Software
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Downloads



   Adobe

      Manufacturer Overview

      Adobe Systems Incorporated (http://www.adobe.com) is the third largest
      PC software company in the U.S. and was founded in 1982. Adobe builds
      software solutions for network publishing, including web, print, video,
      wireless and broadband applications.

      Products Overview

      The current agreement covers most of Adobes products including Acrobat,
      Illustrator, PageMaker and Photoshop. Other product lines featured in
      the agreement are After Affects, ATM Deluxe, Dimensions, Font Folio,
      FrameMaker, GoLive, InDesign, Premiere, PressReady, and Streamline.

      Product Audience

      Web and graphic designers, professional publishers, document-intensive
      organizations, business users, and consumers use Adobe products.

      Products Description


   Acrobat
   Acrobat allows you to convert any document to a Portable Document
   Format (PDF). PDF is a universal file format that preserves all the
   fonts, formatting, graphics, and color of any source document,
   regardless of the application and platform used to create it.
   Illustrator
   Illustrator is the industry-standard vector graphics creation software
   for print and the Web. Illustrator includes graphics tools, versatile
   transparency capabilities, powerful object and layer effects, and other
   features that allow you to transform creative ideas into sophisticated
   graphics for use on the Web, in print, or in dynamic media projects.
   PageMaker
   PageMaker is a page layout program for professionals who want to create
   high-quality publications such as brochures and newsletters. PageMaker
   features templates, graphics, and intuitive design tools that allow you
   to easily leverage existing content to create customized
   communications.
   Photoshop
   Photoshop is an image-editing solution that features built-in vector
   drawing tools, enhanced layer control, and web graphics production
   including Image Ready.
   After Effects
   After Effects offers a comprehensive set of tools to efficiently
   produce motion graphics and visual effects for film, video, multimedia,
   and the Web. After Effects allows you to work in a 2D or 3D compositing
   environment. Adobe Type Manager (ATM) Deluxe software lets you organize
   your PostScript® Type 1, OpenType®, and TrueType fonts to suit the way
   you work.
   Dimensions
   Dimensions is an easy yet powerful 3D rendering tool that offers both
   raster and crisp, resolution-independent PostScript® output.
   Font Folio
   Font Folio contains more than 2,750 ready to use typefaces from the
   Adobe Type Library. Also included are Adobe Type Manager® Deluxe for
   organizing font sets and Adobe Type Reunion® Deluxe (Macintosh only)
   for organizing font menus.
   FrameMaker
   FrameMaker is for publishing long, content-rich documents across
   multiple channels such as the Web, CD-ROM, or print. FrameMaker
   features book-building including book-wide commands, enhanced HTML and
   XML capabilities, and structured PDF file creation.
   GoLive
   GoLive software has design, production, and management features for
   creating professional, dynamic, database-driven Web sites. GoLive
   software protects code from modification and corruption while offering
   site layout and management functionality.
   InDesign
   InDesign is a page layout and design application created for high-end
   graphic designers, production artists and prepress professionals.
   InDesign offers integration with Adobe applications, new tools for
   creativity and productivity, and enhanced precision and control.
   Premiere
   Premiere is a simple and powerful digital video editing tool that
   allows video and business professionals to quickly and easily edit
   digital video on a desktop and publish it to the Web in multiple
   formats.
   PressReady
   PressReady, a printing and proofing tool for select desktop color
   inkjets, enables users to create affordable, high-quality color prints
   from their desktop inkjets using Adobe PostScript® 3, Adobe PDF
   technology and industry color standards.
   Streamline
   Streamline software converts scanned black-and-white or color raster
   images into editable Adobe PostScript® line art.

      Availability

      This agreement is available to all of HHS.

      Pricing

      Please view the Adobe catalog for pricing details.

      Acquisition

      The contract number for the Adobe agreement is PCG16APR200180557 and
      must be referenced on all orders.

      Contact

      Ben Bourbon
      Account Manager, CDW-G
      Direct Toll Free Number: (800) 808-4239 Ext. 77281
      Fax Number: (847) 419-8481
      benbou@cdwg.com

   Contact TASC for assistance or call
   301.59.Go.CIT (V) 301.496.8294 (TDD)

   Questions or Comments | Disclaimers
   National Institutes of Health Center for Information Technology
   National Institutes of Health
   Bethesda, Maryland 20892
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   -
