http://mccain.senate.gov/catfish.htm

          ________________________________________________________

     Tuesday, December 18, 2001
     FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     CONTACT:
     NANCY IVES 202-224-7130

      McCain: Catfish Import Barrier Puts International Trade Agreements
                                   at Risk

   WASHINGTON, DC U.S. Senator John McCain today made the following
   statement regarding his amendment to the Farm Bill that would reinstate
   catfish imports into the United States. The amendment failed on a
   tabling motion 67-28. The statement follows:

   "Mr. President, I wish to draw my colleagues' attention to an action
   Congress recently took, but which they most likely know nothing about a
   severe restriction on all catfish imports into the United States. Much
   more is at stake here than trade in strange-looking fish with whiskers.
   In fact, this import barrier has grave implications for the
   U.S.-Vietnam Bilateral Trade Agreement, for our trade relations with a
   host of nations, and for American consumers and fishermen. America's
   commitment to free trade, and the prosperity we enjoy as a result of
   open trade policies, have been put at risk by a small group of Members
   of Congress on behalf of the catfish industry in their states without
   debate or a vote in the Congress. Consequently, Senators Gramm, Kerry,
   and I are offering an amendment to the Farm Bill to elevate the
   national interest over these parochial interests by stripping this
   narrow-minded import restriction from the books and ensuring that we
   define "catfish" for trade purposes in a way that reflects sound
   science -- not the politics of protectionism.

   "During consideration of the Senate version of the Agriculture
   Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2002, I voiced deep concern about
   the managers' decision to "clear" a package of 35 amendments just
   before final passage of the bill. The vast majority of Senators had
   received no information about the content of these amendments and had
   no chance to review them.

   "As it turns out, I had good reason to be concerned. Included in the
   managers' package was an innocuous-sounding amendment banning the Food
   and Drug Administration from using any funds to process imports of fish
   or fish products labeled as "catfish" unless the fish have a certain
   Latin family name. In fact, of the 2,500 species of catfish on Earth,
   this amendment allows the FDA to process only a certain type raised in
   North America and specifically those that grow in six southern states.
   The practical effect is to restrict all catfish imports into our
   country by requiring that they be labeled as something other than
   catfish -- an underhanded way for U.S. catfish producers to shut out
   the competition. With a clever trick of Latin phraseology and without
   even a ceremonial nod to the vast body of trade laws and practices we
   rigorously observe, this damaging amendment, slipped into the managers'
   package and ultimately signed into law as part of the Agriculture
   Appropriations bill, literally bans federal officials from processing
   any and all catfish imports labeled as what they are catfish.

   "Proponents of this ban used the insidious technique of granting
   ownership of the term "catfish" to only North American catfish growers
   as if southern agribusinesses have exclusive rights to the name of a
   fish that is farmed around the world, from Brazil to Thailand.
   According to the Food and Drug Administration and the American
   Fisheries Society, the Pangasius species of catfish imported from
   Vietnam and other countries are "freshwater catfishes of Africa and
   southern Asia." In addition, current FDA regulations prohibit these
   products from being labeled simply as "catfish." Under existing
   regulations, a qualifier such as "basa" or "striped" must accompany the
   term "catfish" so that consumers are able to make an informed choice
   about what they're eating.

   "These fish were indeed catfish until Congress, with little review and
   no debate, determined them not to be. No other animal or plant name has
   been defined in statute this way. All other acceptable market names for
   fish are determined by the FDA, in cooperation with the National Marine
   Fisheries Service, after a review of scientific literature and market
   practices.

   "What are the effects of this import restriction? As with any
   protectionist measure, blocking trade and relying on only domestic
   production will increase the price of catfish for the many Americans
   who enjoy eating it. One in three seafood restaurants in America serves
   catfish, attesting to its popularity. This trade ban will raise the
   prices wholesalers and their retail customers pay for catfish, and
   Americans who eat catfish will feel that price increase a price
   increase imposed purely to line the pockets of Southern agribusinesses
   and their lobbyists, who have conducted a scurrilous campaign against
   foreign catfish for the most parochial reasons.

   "The ban on catfish imports has other grave implications. It patently
   violates our solemn trade agreement with Vietnam the very same trade
   agreement the Senate ratified by a vote of 88-12 only two months ago.
   The ink was not yet dry on that agreement when the catfish lobby and
   their Congressional allies slipped their midnight amendment into a
   must-pass appropriations bill.

   "Over the last ten years, our nation has engaged in a gradual process
   of normalizing diplomatic and trade relations with Vietnam. Our
   engagement has yielded results: the prosperity and daily freedoms of
   the Vietnamese people have increased as Vietnam has opened to the
   world. The engine of this change has been the rapid economic growth
   brought about by an end to the closed economy under which the
   Vietnamese people stagnated during the 1980s. Many Americans, including
   many veterans, who have visited Vietnam have been struck by these
   changes, and the potential for capitalism in Vietnam to advance our
   interest in freedom and democracy there. We have a long way to go, but
   we are planting the seeds of progress through our engagement with the
   Vietnamese, as reflected most recently in ratification of the bilateral
   trade agreement by both the United States Senate and the Vietnamese
   National Assembly. Indeed, the trade agreement only took effect this
   week.

   "This trade agreement is the pinnacle of the normalization process
   between our countries. It completes the efforts of four American
   presidents to establish normal relations between the United States and
   Vietnam. It is the institutional anchor of our relationship with
   Vietnam, the 14th-largest nation on Earth, and one with which we share
   a number of important interests.

   "Yet in the wake of such historic progress, and after preaching for
   years to the Vietnamese about the need to get government out of the
   business of micro managing the economy, we have sadly implicated
   ourselves in the very sin our trade policy claims to reject. The
   amendment slipped into the Agriculture Appropriations bill openly
   violates the national treatment provisions of our trade agreement with
   Vietnam, in a troubling example of the very parochialism we have urged
   the Vietnamese government to abandon by ratifying the agreement.

   "The amendment Senator Gramm and I are offering today would repeal this
   import restriction on catfish. Our amendment would define "catfish"
   according to existing FDA procedures that follow scientific standards
   and market practices.

   "Not only is the restrictive catfish language offensive in principle to
   our free trade policies, our recent overwhelming ratification of the
   Bilateral Trade Agreement, and our relationship with Vietnam; it also
   flagrantly disregards the facts about the catfish trade. I'd like to
   rebut this campaign of misinformation by setting straight these facts,
   as reported by agricultural officials at our embassy in Hanoi who have
   investigated the Vietnamese catfish industry in depth.

   "The U.S. embassy in Vietnam summarizes the situation in this way:
   Based on embassy discussions with Vietnamese government and industry
   officials and a review of recent reports by U.S.-based experts, the
   embassy does not believe there is evidence to support claims that
   Vietnamese catfish exports to the United States are subsidized,
   unhealthy, undermining, or having an injurious' impact on the catfish
   market in the U.S." Our embassy goes on to state: "In the case of
   catfish, the embassy has found little or no evidence that the U.S.
   industry or health of the consuming public is facing a threat from
   Vietnam's emerging catfish export industry....Nor does there appear to
   be substance to claims that catfish raised in Vietnam are less healthy
   than [those raised in] other countries.' The U.S. embassy reports the
   following:

     SUBSIDIES: American officials indicate that the Vietnamese
     government provides no direct subsidies to its catfish industry.
     HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS: The embassy is unable to identify any
     evidence to support claims that Vietnamese catfish are of
     questionable quality and may pose health risks. FDA officials have
     visited Vietnam and have confirmed quality standards there. U.S.
     importers of Vietnamese catfish are required to certify that their
     imports comply with FDA requirements, and FDA inspections certify
     that these imports meet American standards. A NORMAL INCREASE IN
     IMPORTS: The embassy finds no evidence to suggest that Vietnam is
     purposely directing catfish exports to the United States to
     establish market share. LABELING: The Vietnamese reached an
     agreement with the FDA on a labeling scheme to differentiate
     Vietnamese catfish from American catfish in U.S. retail markets. As
     our embassy reports, the primary objective should be to provide
     American consumers with informed choices, not diminish the choice by
     restricting imports.

   "Mr. President, the facts are clear the midnight amendment passed
   without a vote is based not on any concern for the health and
   well-being of the American consumer. The restriction on catfish imports
   slipped into the Agriculture Appropriations bill serves only the
   interests of the catfish producers in six southern states who profit by
   restricting the choice of the American consumer by banning the
   competition.

   "The catfish lobby's advertising campaign on behalf of its
   protectionist agenda has few facts to rely on to support its case, so
   it stands on scurrilous fear-mongering to make its claim that catfish
   raised in good old Mississippi mud are the only fish with whiskers safe
   to eat. One of these negative advertisements, which ran in the national
   trade weekly Supermarket News, tells us in shrill tones, Never trust a
   catfish with a foreign accent!' This ad characterizes Vietnamese
   catfish as dirty and goes on to say, They've grown up flapping around
   in Third World rivers and dining on whatever they can get their fins
   on....Those other guys probably couldn't spell U.S. even if they
   tried.' How enlightened.

   "I believe a far more accurate assessment is provided in the Far
   Eastern Economic Review, in its feature article on this issue: For a
   bunch of profit-starved fisherfolk, the U.S. catfish lobby had deep
   enough pockets to wage a highly xenophobic advertising campaign against
   their Vietnamese competitors.'

   "Unfortunately, this protectionist campaign against catfish imports has
   global repercussions. Peru has brought a case against the European
   Union in the World Trade Organization because the Europeans have
   claimed exclusive rights to the use of the word "sardine" for trade
   purposes. The Europeans would define sardines to be sardines only if
   they are caught off European waters, thereby threatening the sardine
   fisheries in the Western Hemisphere. Prior to passage of the
   catfish-labeling language in the Agriculture Appropriations bill, the
   United States Trade Representative had committed to file a brief
   supporting Peru's position before the WTO that such a restrictive
   definition unfairly protected European fishermen at the expense of
   sardine fishermen in the Western Hemisphere. Like the Peruvians, a
   large number of American fishermen would suffer the effects of an
   implicit European import ban on the sardines that are their livelihood.

   "Yet as a direct consequence of the passage of the restrictive
   catfish-labeling language in the Agriculture Appropriations bill, USTR
   has withdrawn its brief supporting the Peruvian position in the sardine
   case against the European Union because the catfish amendment written
   into law makes the United States guilty of the same type of
   protectionist labeling scheme for which we have brought suit against
   the Europeans in the WTO. The WTO has previously ruled against such
   manipulation of trade definitions which, if allowed to stand in this
   case, could be used as a precedent to close off foreign markets to a
   number of U.S. products. I doubt the sponsors of the restrictive
   catfish language in the Agriculture Appropriations bill happily
   contemplate the potential of the Pandora's Box they have opened.

   "Mr. President, this blanket restriction on catfish imports, passed
   without debate and without a vote on its merits, has no place in our
   laws. I urge my colleagues to join us in striking it from the books and
   allowing science, not politics, to define what a catfish is by
   supporting our amendment."

                                    # # #
          ________________________________________________________

        | Home | Arizona | Biography | Legislation | Press Releases |
           | Committees | Washington Offices | Federal Websites |
