http://sti.soicc.ca.gov/School.html



   What an Adult Should Consider Before Enrolling in School

   Thinking about going to school to improve yourself or your standard of
   living? Too old for high school? Consider this...
   You may be spending several years of your life and thousands of your
   dollars toward schooling. Before enrolling in a school, spend some time
   and effort to ensure that the school is right for you. Do your
   research. It is much better to be safe than sorry!
   Ask yourself what type of job you want, the salary you are seeking, the
   hours you are willing to work and why. Keep a cold eye on reality.
   Don't try to be a barber if you have flat feet and it hurts you to
   stand for long hours. Don't work outdoors if you have allergies that
   cannot be corrected. If you transpose numbers a lot, don't try to
   become an accountant.
   Once you have decided to pursue a specific occupation, go to at least
   five businesses that utilize the field of expertise you are pursuing.
   Interview individuals in those businesses, especially those who are
   working in the field of your interest. Ask how they became qualified,
   and talk to them about the actual responsibilities of the position. Ask
   them whether they would work in the same job if they had to do it over.
   Inquire about the type of schooling that was required and which schools
   they would recommend. If possible, take school catalogs with you and
   ask the employees in the field if the instruction described in the
   catalog would prepare you for employment. This will help you decide if
   you would really like the job and give you valuable direction about
   good schools. In addition, it will give you several valuable contacts
   in your field of interest.
   You should also decide whether you want to earn an academic degree and,
   if so, determine the highest degree you are seeking. Ask around. Find
   people who have the degree you are interested in obtaining. Ask them
   what school they attended, and how the degree has helped them. Find out
   whether a lower degree would have been adequate or if they would have
   benefited from earning a higher degree.
   Once you have determined what you want to achieve, then you can decide
   how to get there. Decide whether it would be best to go to school right
   away or to seek an entry-level position in the same field and work your
   way up. Also, some companies send employees to school at the company's
   expense.
   Take into consideration how going to school will affect your personal
   life. Think about the time and money you will invest. It may be in your
   best interest to attend a short, intense full-time program that doesn't
   allow you to work. On the other hand, it might be better for you to
   attend a part-time program and continue with your regular life. The
   advantage of a short program is that you might attend school for
   approximately six months, 40 hours a week, and then immediately start
   earning more money. However, attending a part-time program over a
   longer period of time may allow you to continue your current lifestyle
   and work while you are in school. Let the numbers and your personal
   situation work for you.
   If you decide school is for you, use the information you obtain from
   talking with people in your field of interest. Discuss your goals with
   friends, past teachers, and people you trust who have good judgment.
   Visit at least four to five schools that offer programs in your field
   of interest. Here are important factors when visiting schools:
   ...Do not sign anything until after you have been to all of the schools
   you planned to visit.
   ...Make sure you clearly understand the total cost of the program,
   including supplies, equipment, and tuition. Know exactly how and when
   you will have to pay these costs. Check on the grace period for
   withdrawal without financial commitment and the refund policy.
   ...Read the enrollment agreement and catalog carefully. These are the
   documents that you will live by.
   ...Consider at least one community college and one private vocational
   school.
   ...Obtain as much written information as you can, including catalogs,
   from the various schools. Believe only what is in writing.
   ...Have each school tell you its exact placement rate of graduates as
   well as the names of companies that hire those graduates.
   ...Interview graduates. Where are they now? Would they recommend the
   school?

   ...If you want to know whether the school's credits transfer to another
   institution, always check with the institution that will receive the
   credits. Only that institution can assure acceptance. Get it in
   writing.
   ...Always check out transfer credits at the institution where you plan
   to take your highest level of education. The credits may be
   transferable toward an Associate's Degree, but if you plan to get a
   Bachelor's Degree later, then checking with the institution where you
   will pursue the Bachelor's Degree will ensure that you do not waste the
   time and money spent in your earlier education.
   ...Find out whether the degree or course of study qualifies you for a
   professional licensure examination and what the school's pass rate of
   the examination has been. Check with the licensure board to verify.
   ...Look at some of the classes and talk with students and instructors.
   Inquire about equipment they use, teacher qualifications, canceled
   classes, availability of special help, preparation for employment,
   placement services, and counseling. Get it in writing.
   ...Do not enroll in a program other than exactly the one you have
   decided upon.
   ...Only rely on what is in writing, not what is told to you orally.
   Here are some other tips:
   In California, non-public postsecondary educational institutions are
   approved to operate by the Bureau of Private Postsecondary and
   Vocational Education. You can contact the Bureau at (916) 445-3427 to
   verify approval of a school and the nature and disposition of any
   complaints filed against the school.
   If the school claims to be accredited, contact its accrediting agency
   to verify its accreditation.

   Back to COICC Home Page

   To BPPVE Home Page
