http://www.baaqmd.gov/jobs/proganalyst.htm

   [baaqmdl.gif]

                 OPEN RECRUITMENT

     __________________________________________________________________


   January 18, 2002

   PROGRAMMER ANALYST II – ONE POSITION

   Salary Range – $51,655 - $62,787 Annually

                Initial hire is normally at the entry salary.



   The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) is currently
   recruiting for one Programmer Analyst II position in the Information
   Systems Services Division.  This is a full time represented position.
   The Programmer Analyst, under general supervision, performs computer
   programming and applications systems design and modification of a
   routine to complex nature in support of District administrative,
   business, engineering and other technical services; performs related
   work as assigned.

   Programmer Analyst II is the journey level of this classification.
   Incumbents perform a variety of difficult programming, coding, and
   computer application work and exercise a greater latitude of
   independent judgment.  This class is distinguished from Systems Analyst
   in that the latter coordinates, analyzes, designs, implements and
   evaluates the acquisition, development and maintenance of District-wide
   management information systems.


   EXAMPLES OF DUTIES: Duties may include but are not limited to the
   following: (Duties in bold print are the most relevant for the
   position) Designs, codes and tests application programs based on
   program specifications; develops program logic and processing steps;
   codes programs in Visual Basic using structured programming techniques;
   writes utility programs to support and validate adapted systems and
   programs; writes, modifies and converts computer models, subroutines
   and data files in Visual Basic; gathers, analyzes and documents
   information regarding user systems and requirements and develops or
   modifies automated systems to fulfill these needs; writes program and
   design documentation and user procedures and instructions and assists
   user departments and staff in implementing new or modified programs and
   applications; tracks and evaluates project and systems progress;
   confers with user department staff regarding assigned functional
   program areas; confers with and assists computer operations staff to
   resolve computer related problems;  plans and develops test data to
   validate new or modified programs; designs input and output forms and
   documents; conducts feasibility studies and develops system, time,
   equipment and cost requirements; using computer-generated techniques,
   simulates hardware and software problems, tests and evaluates
   alternative solutions, and recommends and implements appropriate
   applications design; tests and debugs programs; provides for
   maintenance and enhancements as assigned;  troubleshoot software
   problems as needed, for user and information systems personnel;
   maintains records and prepares periodic and special reports of work
   performed; maintains current knowledge of technology and new computer
   user applications.


   QUALIFICATIONS:  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and skills for
   the Programmer Analyst II is:  Equivalent to graduation from a
   four-year college or university with major coursework in computer
   science or a closely related field.  In addition to the education
   requirement, two years of experience in applications programming for a
   mainframe or minicomputer system and two years of programming and
   systems analysis experience.


   Additional experience may be substituted for college education on a
   year for year basis for up to two years of the required education.


   Qualified applicants must possess knowledge of:  (those in bold print
   are critical for successful job performance) Computer programming
   principles, techniques and procedures for administrative, technical,
   business and modeling applications; systems analysis, design and
   documentation procedures  and techniques; form and document design
   techniques; principles and techniques of Client/Server and Web-based
   programming; relational database principles and programming techniques;
   batch and on-line applications techniques; operating principles and
   characteristics of the mainframe computer, application servers, web
   servers, network servers and associated computer hardware utilized by
   the district; job planning, prioritizing and scheduling techniques;
   basic accounting, statistical, business administration and office
   procedures;   AND skill in (skills in bold print are critical for
   successful job performance) Analyzing systems and problems and
   developing new or modified programs to meet user department needs;
   translating user department needs into operational programs;
   establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with those
   contacted in the course of the work; preparing clear and concise
   program documentation, user procedures, reports of work performed, and
   other written material; exercising sound independent decisions within
   established guidelines; developing logical procedures and coding their
   steps into programming instructions and developing tests to validate
   program design;  troubleshooting software problems and debugging
   programs and applications; instructing user department staff in the
   operation of new or revised computer applications, including explaining
   system concepts to non-technical users; analyzing system requirements
   and selecting appropriate hardware and software for system design.


   OTHER REQUIREMENTS:  Must possess a valid California driver’s license
   and meet the automobile insurability requirements of the District.


   SELECTION PROCESS:  Interested individuals must submit a completed
   BAAQMD application along with their responses to the supplemental
   application questions to the Human Resources Office no later than 5:00
   p.m. on February 11, 2002.  For an application packet, contact the
   Human Resources Office at 939 Ellis Street, Fourth Floor, San
   Francisco, CA 94109.  Phone (415) 749-4980.  Except as requested in
   this announcement, do not include any additional documents or
   attachments, such as letters of recommendation, performance
   evaluations, work samples, etc.  They will not be considered.  A resume
   may be included, but will not be accepted in lieu of an official BAAQMD
   application.  Postmarks and faxes will not be accepted.


   The Human Resources Office will review all required application
   materials to assist in determining whether or not an applicant meets
   the minimum qualifications for the position.


   For more than one vacancy, one additional applicant for each additional
   vacancy will be added to each of the following selection processes.


   If more than five (5) applicants meet the minimum qualification for the
   position, the following process will be utilized:


   1)      All applicants who meet the minimum qualifications will be
   screened by a panel of three (3) District employees.  The screening
   criteria for this recruitment will be the responses to the supplemental
   questions.  As a result of the screening, all applicants will be given
   a score on a 100-point scale.


   2)      Based on the screening panel scores, the top eight (8)
   applicants will be interviewed by a panel of three (3) individuals.  As
   a result of the interview panel, the applicants will be given a score
   on a 100-point scale.


   3)      Based on the combined scores of the screening panel (weighted:
   60%) and interview panel (weighted: 40%), the top five (5) applicants
   will be interviewed by a Hiring Committee.


   If five (5) or fewer applicants meet the minimum qualifications for the
   position, only a Hiring Committee interview will be conducted.


   In the event there are no bargaining unit employees in the qualified
   applicant pool, the District retains the right to utilize these
   procedures or any other selection procedures deemed appropriate by the
   Human Resources Officer.


   Persons with disabilities who may require reasonable accommodations
   during the application and/or selection process should notify the Human
   Resources Office at 415-749-4980.


                                     EEO

   [back.gif]
