http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/eharchive/01/april/ozone.html


                        Home, Feedback, Search Links
                        Main Sections Navigation Bar
    Where you are:   For News Media  :   EOS Highlights Archive  :   Year
                          2001  :   April  :   Dust
           Earth Observering System Project Science Office Banner

   http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/gsfc/earth/atmos/ozone.htm

   RELEASE: 01-34

   April 17, 2001

   Wetter Upper Atmosphere May Delay Global Ozone Recovery
   Envelope Icon Tell a friend about this press release

   NASA research has shown that increasing water-vapor in the
   stratosphere, which results partially from greenhouse gases, may delay
   ozone recovery and increase the rate of climate change.

   Drew Shindell, an atmospheric scientist from NASA's Goddard Institute
   for Space Studies (GISS) and Columbia University, NY, used the
   NASA/GISS global climate model with satellite and other remote sensing
   data to investigate long-term stratospheric cooling and ozone
   depletion. This study is the first to link greenhouse gases to
   increased ozone depletion over populated areas.

   Shindell found that he was able to best simulate the behavior of
   temperature and ozone in the upper atmosphere when he added water vapor
   data into the climate model.

   "Climate models show cooler stratospheric temperatures happen when
   there is more water vapor present, and water vapor also leads to the
   breakdown of ozone molecules," Shindell said. According to satellite
   data, upper atmospheric temperatures around the world (20-35 miles
   high) have cooled between 5.4-10.8 degrees Fahrenheit over recent
   decades. The stratosphere is the typically dry layer of the atmosphere
   above the troposphere, where temperatures increase with height.

   According to Shindell there are two driving forces behind the change in
   stratospheric moisture. "Increased emissions of the greenhouse gas,
   methane, are transformed into water in the stratosphere," Shindell
   said, "accounting for about a third of the observed increase in
   moisture there."

   The second cause of change in the upper atmosphere is a greater
   transport of water from the lower atmosphere, which happens for several
   reasons. Warmer air holds more water vapor than colder air, so the
   amount of water vapor in the lower atmosphere increases as it is warmed
   by the greenhouse effect. Climate models also indicate that greenhouse
   gases such as carbon dioxide and methane may enhance the transport of
   water into the stratosphere. Though not fully understood, the increased
   transport of water vapor to the stratosphere seems likely to have been
   induced by human activities.

   "Rising greenhouse gas emissions account for all or part of the water
   vapor increase," said Shindell, "which causes stratospheric ozone
   destruction."

   When more water vapor works its way into the stratosphere, the water
   molecules can be broken down, releasing reactive molecules that can
   destroy ozone. Shindell noted that his global climate model agrees with
   satellite observations of the world's stratospheric ozone levels when
   the water vapor factor is increased in the stratosphere over time.
   Shindell said, "If the trend of increasing stratospheric water vapor
   continues, it could increase future global warming and impede ozone
   stratospheric recovery."

   The impact on global warming comes about because both water vapor and
   ozone are greenhouse gases, which trap heat leaving the Earth. "When
   they change, the Earth's energy balance changes too, altering the
   surface climate," said Shindell. Increased water vapor in the
   stratosphere makes it warmer on the ground by trapping heat, while the
   ozone loss makes it colder on the ground. Water vapor has a much larger
   effect, so that overall the changes increase global warming. Shindell
   stressed that although ozone depletion cools the Earth's surface,
   repairing stratospheric ozone is very important to block harmful
   ultraviolet radiation, and other greenhouse gas emissions need to be
   reduced.

   Shindell used seven years of data from the Upper Atmosphere Research
   Satellite's (UARS) Halogen Occultation Experiment (HALOE) with ground
   based data to paint a complete picture of the upper atmosphere. He also
   used 14 years of lower stratospheric measurements that show large
   increases in water vapor. Though some studies conflict with lower
   stratospheric observations of water vapor trends, studies released
   since Shindell's paper was written, agree with the increases he used,
   and indicate that they have been taking place for more than four
   decades already.

   Shindell's paper, "Climate and Ozone Response to Increased
   Stratospheric Water Vapor," appears in the April 15th issue of
   Geophysical Research Letters.

   NASA's HALOE was launched on the UARS spacecraft September 12, 1991, as
   part of the Earth Science Enterprise Program. Its mission includes
   improvement of understanding stratospheric ozone depletion by analyzing
   vertical profiles of ozone, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen fluoride,
   methane, water vapor, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, and aerosols.

   For more information, please visit:
   http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/gsfc/earth/atmos/ozone.htm
   http://haloedata.larc.nasa.gov/.

   Contact: Cynthia O'Carroll NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
   (301/614-5563)

      Home Icon HOME      Search Icon SEARCH      Feedback Icon FEEDBACK
