http://www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov/constitution.htm


   [MINNESOTA_SEAL.gif]

                                                  HONOLULU-PACIFIC

                                               FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD

                                                    CONSTITUTION

                                 [rain.gif]

   Article I - Name

   The name of this organization shall be the Honolulu-Pacific Federal
   Executive Board, hereinafter referred to as the Executive Board.

   Article II - Authority and Purpose

   Section 1 -  FEB's are established by direction of the President. A
   memorandum to heads of departments and agencies dated July 6, 1966
   adding Honolulu, among others, and a memorandum to the Director, Bureau
   of the Budget, now Office of Management and Budget, dated August 13,
   1969 are the establishing documents.

   Section 2 -  Consistent with the range of authority and discretion
   which Board members hold by delegation from superiors in their
   respective agencies, it shall be the goal of the Federal Executive
   Board to initiate improved coordination of governmental activity within
   the State of Hawaii and that part of the Pacific are under jurisdiction
   of a member agency, through cooperative action among field
   establishments in the areas of government wide policy implementation,
   service to the community, and improving the quality of Federal
   Government.

   Section 3 -  From time to time and under the guidance of the Director
   of the Office of Personnel Management, the Executive Board shall direct
   its cooperative activity to specific programs concerning Presidential
   policies of general application.

   Article III - Membership

   Section 1 -  Membership on the Executive Board shall consist of the
   heads of field establishments located in Honolulu and the immediate
   vicinity as designated by the head of the department or agency.

   Section 2 -  Board members will each designate an alternate who will
   participate in Board meetings and activities when the principal is not
   on duty in the city.

   Section 3 -  Board members will designate officials and employees on
   their staff to participate in activities undertaken by the Board or to
   work on committees under the Board. Such assignments will not
   constitute membership on the Executive Board.

   Section 4 - Voting privileges in meetings of the Executive Board shall
   be restricted to the members or, in their absence, their designated
   alternates.

   Section 5 - The Policy Committee at its discretion, may designate
   persons as honorary, special and/or associate members without vote for
   terms of membership for the same period of time as the officers of the
   FEB.

   Article IV - Officers and Elections

   Section 1 - The elected officers of the Executive Board shall be a
   chairman, vice chairman, and six members of the Policy Committee. The
   Policy Committee shall also include the immediate past chairman still
   in Federal Government service as a voting member and the members
   representing the General Services Administration and the Office of
   Personnel Management as ex-officio members.

   Section 2 - The term of office for the chairman and vice chairman shall
   be for one fiscal year. Unless there are extenuating circumstances, the
   vice chairman shall be nominated as the chairman elect.

   Section 3 - The term of office for elected members of the Policy
   Committee shall be two years. Terms for three elected members of the
   Policy Committee shall expire on even   years. The terms of the other
   three shall expire in odd years. Elections shall be held annually to
   fill the vacancies created by the expiring terms. Interim vacancies
   shall be filled by appointment of a member of the Executive Board by
   the chairman. The appointed members shall hold office until the next
   regular election at which time a member shall be elected for the
   unexpired term.

   Section 4 - Elections shall be held annually at the regular meeting of
   the Executive Board scheduled during the last fiscal quarter. A special
   election for vice chairman will be held during the year whenever the
   office of vice chairman becomes vacant. Officers will assume their
   duties on the first day of the new fiscal year. It shall be the duty of
   the chairman to appoint a nominating committee of not less than five
   members who shall place in nomination one or more names for each
   elective office. In order to permit full consideration of the
   candidates, a listing of nominees will be submitted to the members with
   the notice of the meeting at which the election will be held. After
   formal presentation of the nominations at the meeting, the chairman
   will provide an opportunity for more nominations from the floor.

   Section 5 - Election shall be by ballot. In all instances, the
   candidate receiving the greatest number of votes for an office shall be
   declared elected to that office. The ballot may be dispensed with by
   unanimous consent.

   Section 6 - In the event the chairman must leave office before the end
   of the elected term, either because of illness or transfer, the vice
   chairman shall be designated to serve as acting chairman until the
   unexpired term of the chairman has been completed. A special election
   will be held for the vacant vice chairman position whenever the
   position becomes vacant under these circumstances.

   Article V - Duties of Officers

   Section 1 - The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Executive
   Board, appoint all standing and special committees, call such special
   meetings as may be required, and act as spokesperson for the Executive
   Board on all occasions. The chairman shall function ex-officio as
   chairman of the Policy Committee.

   Section 2 - The vice chairman shall preside at meetings in the absence
   of the chairman. The vice chairman shall also serve as a member of the
   Policy Committee.

   Section 3 - In the event emergency or special meetings must be called
   and both the chairman and vice chairman are unavailable to preside, the
   chairman's alternate shall preside.

   Section 4 - In lieu of a secretary-treasurer, the employed executive
   director shall issue the notices of all meetings, assist committees in
   the preparation of minutes where needed, retain official files of
   minutes, conduct the routine correspondence of the Executive Board, and
   keep such records as may be required. He shall manage and disburse
   funds of the Board in accordance with instructions of the Policy
   Committee, and perform such other functions as the chairman may assign.

   Section 5 - The Policy Committee shall seek ways and means to undertake
   with diligence and serious purpose those activities related to
   government wide policy implementation, service to the community and
   improving the quality of the Federal Government that will best
   contribute to the effectiveness and economy of government operations in
   Honolulu, the State of Hawaii and cognizant Pacific areas.

   Article VI - Meetings

   Regular meetings of the full Executive Board shall be held at least
   four times each year upon notice by the chairman. Special meetings of
   the Executive Board will be on call by the chairman.

   Article VII - Annual Report

   At the beginning of the fiscal year the chairman, in consultation with
   the Policy Committee, shall prepare and submit to the Office of
   Personnel Management a plan of objectives of the Federal Executive
   Board for the ensuing year and activities and projects in the areas of
   government-wide policy implementation, service to the community, and
   improving the quality of the Federal Government designed to fulfill
   these objectives.

   Article VIII - Reports

   At the end of each fiscal year, the chairman in consultation with the
   Policy Committee shall prepare and submit to the Office of Personnel
   Management a report on the accomplishments and progress in relation to
   the annual work plan of the past year. The chairman will also prepare
   and  submit such other reports as may be requested by the Office of
   Personnel Management.

   Article IX - Effective Date of Constitution

   This constitution shall become effective upon adoption by a majority of
   the members present and voting.

   Article X - Amendments to the Constitution

   Amendments to the constitution shall be referred to the Policy
   Committee and upon a favorable report by that committee may be adopted
   at any regular meeting of the Executive Board with the concurrence of
   the majority of the members present and voting.


   Amended September 20, 1983



            Annual Report/Calendar/COLA Settlement/Committees &
   Councils/Constitution/Directory of FEBs/Emergency Dismissal Plan/EEO
   Council/FEB Mission/FSCH/FWC/Hawaii-Pacific Area CFC/Home/Interesting
      Articles/Links/Meeting Minutes/Membership/News Bite/Officers &
                 Staff/Photographs/Training Opportunities
