http://www.coastal.ca.gov/access/accndx.html

               [accesslogo.jpg]

                               Access Home Page
                                 OTD/Easement
                             Prescriptive Rights
                                Coastal Trail
                             Coastal Access Guide
                                CCC Home Page

               California Coastal Act, Section 30001.5 states:

     “The legislature further finds and declares that the basic goals of
     the state for the coastal zone are to: . . .

     (c) Maximize public access to and along the coast and maximize
     public recreational opportunities in the coastal zone consistent
     with sound resources conservation principles and constitutionally
     protected rights of private property owners.”

         This theme setting collage is composed (mostly) of pictures
         submitted in our Photo Contests. The photo of the man in the
     wheelchair enjoying the coast was taken by Debbie Molina. The photo
       of the little girl admiring the sea was taken by Rick Nehm. The
     glorious sunset photo was taken by Robert ing. All the others which
            were entrants are identified in our contest galleries.

     The first comprehensive review of the State
     ’s Coastal Access Program, the California Coastal Commission Public
     Access Action Plan, was published in June 1999. It identified the
     key issues that affect the public’s ability to use and enjoy the
     coast for recreation, and determined its three top program
     priorities:

     The Offer to Dedicate (OTD) Public Access Easement Program;

     The California Coastal Trail;

     The Prescriptive Rights Program.

     The  Commission publishes the California Coastal Access Guide with
     information on more than 850 public access coastal areas.



     If you would like more information on the Public Access Program, you
     may contact Linda Locklin, the Program Manager at 831-427-4875
