http://infoserv2.ita.doc.gov/ticwebsite/tic.nsf/AF34FA880278BDD58525690D00656C6F/DB2C153B5216E819852569190056B3B3?OpenDocument

   Trade Information Center Homepage Banner 1-800-USA-TRADE

Export Questions

                Country Info

                            Trade Offices

                                         Tariffs & Taxes

                                                        Resources

                                                                 Export Programs

   [ISMAP:0.60!OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=gif]-[USEMAP:0.60!OpenElement&F
   ieldElemFormat=gif]

   Tariff and Tax Information

                             Trade Information Center

   This document contains information on how to determine tariffs and
   taxes levied on U.S. products and services exported from the United
   States to other countries.
   [textlink.gif] 1) Define your export related terms
   [textlink.gif] 2) What is an HS (Harmonized System) number and how do I
   identify it for my product?
   [textlink.gif] 3) Contact U.S. Government sources for tariff, tax and
   other customs info
   [textlink.gif] 4) Use the Internet to find tariff, tax and other
   customs info (see table below).
   [textlink.gif] 5) Determine charges for U.S. shipments to U.S.
   Territories
   [textlink.gif] 6) Find out about tax and tariff exemptions for gifts
   [textlink.gif] 7) Contact private sector sources for tariff, tax, and
   other customs info
   [textlink.gif] 8) Ask U.S. Customs about tariff rates on imports into
   the U.S.
   LIST OF COUNTRIES WITH TARIFF WEBSITES:
   Angola    COMESA      Guatemala Lesotho     Niger       Spain
   APEC      Comoros     Honduras  Luxembourg  Norway      Swaziland
   Australia Congo       Hong Kong Madagascar  Philippines Sweden
   Austria   Costa Rica  Iceland   Malawi      Pakistan    Taiwan
   Bahrain   Denmark     Indonesia Malaysia    Portugal    Tanzania
   Belgium   El Salvador Ireland   Malta       Puerto Rico Thailand
   Bolivia   Eritrea     Israel    Mexico      Qatar       UAE/Dubai
   Botswana  Ethiopia    Japan     Mauritius   Rwanda      Uganda
   Brunei    Europe      Italy     Morocco     S. Korea    UK
   Burundi   Finland     Jordan    Namibia     Seychelles  Zambia
   Canada    Germany     Kenya     Netherlands Singapore   Zimbabwe
   Chile     France      Kuwait    New Zealand S. Africa
   China     Greece      Lebanon   Nicaragua   Sudan
   1) DEFINE YOUR TERMS
   Ad Valorem: According to value.
   CIF: Cost, Insurance, Freight. A pricing term indicating that the cost
   of goods, insurance, and freight are included in the quoted price.
   Duty-paid Value: CIF or FOB value + duty.
   FOB: Free on Board. Cost of the product + all transportation costs from
   the manufacturer to the port of departure + costs of loading the
   vessel.
   Tariff & Duty (Interchangeable terms): A product-specific tax imposed
   on imports by the customs authorities of a country.
   Taxes: Charges applied in addition to duty (tariff).
   2) DETERMINE THE HARMONIZED SYSTEM NUMBER FOR YOUR PRODUCT
   Harmonized System (HS) numbers are classification numbers assigned to
   identify a specific type of product. The HS number is used by Customs
   authorities around the world to apply duties and taxes. These numbers
   are typically 6 to 10 digits long. The first 6 digits are standardized
   worldwide, while additional numbers are used by some governments to
   further distinguish products in certain categories. In the United
   States, HS numbers are also called Schedule B and HS Tariff
   Classification numbers. To find tariff information, the HS number up to
   the 6-digit level is required.
   The U.S. Census Bureau's Foreign Trade Division website can be used to
   classify products in the Harmonized System. The address is
   http://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/schedules/b/index.html. If you have
   trouble classifying your product and need assistance, call the Census
   Bureau at 301-457-1084.
   The Schedule B: Statistical Classification of Domestic and Foreign
   Commodities Exported from the United States can be ordered from the
   Government Printing Office by calling 202-512-1800. The stock number is
   903-009-00000-4. The CD-ROM version can also be purchased from the
   Census Bureau by calling 301-457-1086.
   3) CONTACT U.S. GOVERNMENT SOURCES FOR TARIFF, TAX AND CUSTOMS
   INFORMATION
   Nonagricultural Exports:
   Please note: The U.S. Government cannot provide tariff rates for
   products shipped from one foreign country to another. The U.S.
   Government provides information only on U.S. goods shipped to a foreign
   country.
   For Western Europe, Asia, Africa, the Western Hemisphere, and the
   Middle/Near East, call the Trade Information Center at
   1-800-USA-TRAD(E). We ask that you fax requests for 3 or more
   commodities or countries to 202-482-4473. You must have the HS numbers
   for your products.
   For Russia and the New Independent States, contact the Business
   Information Service for the New Independent States (BISNIS) at
   202-482-4655.
   For Central and Eastern Europe, contact the Central and Eastern
   European Business Information Center (CEEBIC) at 202-482-2645.
   Agricultural Exports:
   Please note: The U.S. Government cannot provide tariff rates for
   products shipped from one foreign country to another. The U.S.
   Government provides information only on U.S. goods shipped to a foreign
   country.
   If your product is agricultural (HS chapters 1 through 24), please
   contact the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Foreign Agricultural
   Service.
   All tariff requests for agricultural exports must be faxed:
   For Europe, Africa, and the Middle East: tel: 202-720-1341; fax:
   202-690-1093
   For Asia and the Americas: tel: 202-720-1289; fax: 202-690-2079
   International Customs Journal:
   The International Customs Tariffs Bureau publishes the International
   Customs Journals. Each volume covers duties indexed by HS numbers for
   individual countries. The timeliness of the tariff schedules vary from
   country to country. The volumes can be purchased from the National
   Technical Information Service (NTIS) by phone at 1-800-553-6847 or
   (703) 605-6000. Orders can be placed on-line from:
   http://tradecenter.ntis.gov/ or http://www.fedworld.gov.
   4) USE THE INTERNET TO FIND IMPORT TARIFF, TAX, AND OTHER CUSTOMS
   INFORMATION
   European Union
   The TIC Western Europe site has the European Union tariff schedule
   on-line. Members include Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,
   Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal,
   Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.
   APEC
   The members of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) have placed
   their tariff schedules in the APEC Tariff Database on the Internet at
   http://www.apectariff.org. Members include many Asian economies, the
   United States, Canada, Mexico, and Chile. You will be asked to register
   in order to use the site, but it is a free service. This section helps
   U.S. exporters identify which column rates apply to U.S. products,
   lists the costs against which the tariff and tax rates are applied, and
   lists additional taxes collected at the border.
   Australia http://www.apectariff.org
   U.S. products subject to the general duty rate (usually the first and
   highest rate of several shown for a given product). The general rate
   has no DC, DCS, CAN or other preferential geographic designation before
   the duty rate.
   -- The duty is applied on the FOB value.
   -- 10 percent Goods and Services tax applied on FOB + duty.
   Brunei http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Single column tariff schedule; tariffs applied on the CIF value.
   -- No other taxes are known.
   Canada http://www.apectariff.org
   U.S. products meeting the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
   rules of origin (except some agricultural products) are duty free
   effective January 1, 1998. (Refer to 'Applicable Preference Tariff'
   column, AUST.). For products that do not meet the NAFTA rule of origin,
   use the AMFN column.
   --For NAFTA rates which apply to qualifying U.S. products only, use the
   "Applicable Preferential Tariffs" column and look for the designation
   "UST."
   --For rates which apply to products from the United States which do not
   qualify under NAFTA, use the "MFN Tariff" column. For information on
   how to qualify products under NAFTA see our NAFTA database.
   --Canada applies duties on FOB value.
   --The Federal Goods and Services Tax (GST) is 7 percent applied on the
   FOB + duty value.
   --New Brunswick (15 percent HST--includes the provincial sales tax plus
   the 7 percent federal GST),
   Newfoundland (15 percent HST--includes the provincial sales tax plus
   the 7 percent federal GST), and Nova Scotia (15 percent HST--includes
   the provincial sales tax plus the 7 percent federal GST) collect
   provincial taxes at the border. As of April 1, 1999 Quebec and Ontario
   (15 percent HST--includes the provincial sales tax plus the 7 percent
   federal GST) collect provincial taxes at the border on personal, not
   commercial, shipments.
   Chile http://www.apectariff.org
   --Single column tariff schedule; tariffs applied on the CIF value.
   --Value Added Tax of 18 percent is applied on the CIF + duty value.
   -- Chile imposes a flat 9 percent import duty on most traded products,
   except for some agriculture products, which may be subject to quotas or
   prohibition. Most used vehicles cannot be imported. For duties on
   agricultural and food products contact the TIC.
   -- Chile imposes a value added tax of 18 percent applied on the CIF +
   duty value on all products at the time of entry.
   -- Gifts are subject to duties and taxes; the first US$600 are exempt
   from duties.
   -- Carnets are not accepted. Temporary entry is permitted, but a bond
   may be required.
   Customs Service of Chile
   Phone: 56-32-200-500
   Fax: 56-32-23-212-841
   China http://www.apectariff.org
   --U.S. products subject to duty in Column I (Most-Favored Nation); duty
   applied on the CIF value.
   --Value Added Tax of 17 percent applied on the CIF + duty value; 13
   percent VAT on foodstuffs, some fuels and books.
   Hong Kong http://www.apectariff.org
   Hong Kong is a duty free territory. No import duties are charged on any
   products from any source, although both foreign and domestic products
   face excise taxes on a limited number of products. For more information
   see our Asia database.
   --Hong Kong levies a 0.035 percent documents handling fee, which is
   applied on the CIF value.
   --Hong Kong and China are separate customs territories with separate
   tariff schedules.
   --Hong Kong requires an import or an export license for all optical
   disc manufacturing equipment.
   Hong Kong Customs & Excise Department
   6 - 9th Floors, 38 Pier Road
   Central, Hong Kong
   Phone: (852) 2852-1411
   Indonesia http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Single column tariff schedule; rates applied on the CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 10 percent applied on the CIF + duty value.
   -- 10-40 percent Sales Tax on "luxury items."
   Japan http://www.apectariff.org
   As of January 1, 1998, U.S. products face the rate in the WTO 2 column;
   if this figure is in parentheses, use the figure in the general column;
   rates are applied on the CIF value.
   -- Consumption tax of 5 percent is applied at the retail level. If the
   imported product is shipped directly to the end user, the tax is
   applied at the time of entry on the CIF + duty value.
   Malaysia http://www.apectariff.org
   -- U.S. products subject to rates under "Import" column, applied on the
   CIF value.
   -- Sales Tax varies by product--nil, 5, or 10 percent (10 percent being
   the most frequent) applied on CIF + duty.
   Mexico http://www.apectariff.org
   The tariff schedule on the APEC Tariff Database gives the Most Favored
   Nation (MFN) rates only. For information on tariff rates applied to
   U.S. products meeting the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
   rules of origin, call the Trade Information Center. For information on
   how to qualify products under NAFTA click here.
   -- Tariff rates are applied on the CIF value (non-NAFTA product) or FOB
   value (NAFTA product).
   -- Value Added Tax of 15 percent is applied on the CIF value (non-NAFTA
   product) or FOB value (NAFTA product).
   -- The VAT is 10% on US-Mexico border regions. Drugs are not subject to
   the VAT.
   -- A 0.8 percent Customs User Fee is applied on the CIF value of
   non-NAFTA products. Click here for details.
   New Zealand http://www.apectariff.org
   -- U.S. products subject to tariff rates in Column I (general rate);
   tariff applied on the FOB value.
   -- Sales tax of 12.5 percent is applied at the retail level. If the
   imported product is shipped directly to the end user, the tax is
   applied at the time of entry on the CIF + duty value.
   Papua New Guinea http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Single column tariff schedule; rates applied on the CIF value.
   -- No other taxes known.
   Philippines http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Single column tariff rate by year; rates applied on the CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 10 percent applied on the CIF + duty value.
   Singapore http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Single column tariff applied on the CIF value; if the column is
   blank, the tariff rate is zero.
   --Tariff and tax information can also be found at
   http://www.gov.sg/customs/ (click on "For Traders")
   -- Sales Tax of 3 percent applied on the CIF + duty.
   -- Singapore applies duties only on tobacco products, alcoholic
   beverages, gasoline, and motor vehicles. The import duty on all other
   products is zero.
   -- For tariff information on tobacco, alcoholic beverages, gasoline,
   and vehicles use the APEC Tariff Database on the Internet or contact
   the Trade Information Center.
   Singapore Customs & Excise Department
   Phone: (65) 272-8222
   Fax: (65) 250-8663
   South Korea http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Single column tariff; where no rate is shown, use the nearest
   preceding rate.
   -- Tariffs are applied on the CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 10 percent applied on the CIF + duty value.
   Taiwan (Chinese Taipei) http://www.apectariff.org
   -- U.S. products subject to tariffs in Column II (Most Favored Nation);
   if no rate is shown in Column II, use the Column I rate.
   -- Tariffs are applied on the CIF value.
   -- Port charge of 0.5 percent is applied on the CIF value for shipments
   by sea.
   -- Value Added Tax of 5 percent is applied on the CIF value.
   Thailand http://www.apectariff.org
   -- Thailand is a member of APEC, but has not placed its tariff
   schedules in the APEC Tariff Database. To obtain tariff rates for
   Thailand, contact the Trade Information Center.
   Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)
   Tariff and customs information can be found at http://www.comesa.int/
   The COMESA member countries are: Angola, Burundi, Comoros, Democratic
   Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi,
   Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania,
   Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
   Computers/Software
   The Department of Commerce, International Trade Office of Information
   Technologies maintains a website, which contains information on duties
   and taxes applied by some 120 countries on imports of U.S. computers
   and software. The website can be accessed at
   http://web.ita.doc.gov/ocbe/ocbehome.nsf.
   Bahrain
   -- Customs duties are imposed on the CIF value:
   -- 5 percent on foodstuffs and non-luxuries
   -- 10 percent on luxuries
   -- 20 percent on cars and boats
   -- 25 percent on fully-processed corn and palm oil imports, and other
   items produced in Bahrain.
   -- 70 percent on cigarettes and tobacco products
   -- 125 percent on alcoholic beverages
   -- In principle, no tax or duty is payable on imports of raw materials
   or semi-manufactured goods for manufacture or on imports required for
   development projects (but not including spare parts).
   Bahrain Directorate of Customs and Ports
   Phone: 011-973-727178
   Bolivia
   -- Bolivia assesses a 10 percent tariff on all goods except those
   classified as capital goods, books, and publications.
   -- Capital goods, found only in Harmonized System chapters 84, 85, 86,
   and 97, are assessed a 5 percent tariff. Books and publications are
   charged a tariff of 2 percent.
   -- Tariffs are assessed on the CIF value.
   -- A Value Added Tax of 14.94 percent is imposed on the CIF + duty
   value.
   -- A Customs Warehouse Fee of 0.5 percent is imposed on the CIF value.
   -- Additional customs charges total some $50-$60.
   -- Carnets are not accepted. Temporary entry of goods is permitted, but
   a bond may be required.
   Costa Rica
   Spanish-language website with tariff schedule can be found at
   http://ns.sieca.org.gt/ArancelVigente/Arancel.asp
   El Salvador
   Spanish-language website with tariff schedule can be found at
   http://ns.sieca.org.gt/ArancelVigente/Arancel.asp
   Guatemala
   Spanish-language website with tariff schedule can be found at
   http://ns.sieca.org.gt/ArancelVigente/Arancel.asp
   Honduras
   Spanish-language website with tariff schedule can be found at
   http://ns.sieca.org.gt/ArancelVigente/Arancel.asp
   Iceland
   English-language website with tariff schedule can be found at
   http://www.tollur.is.
   -- Go to "manuals." Click on "Table of Contents" to browse by chapter
   or "Search" to do a keyword search.
   -- Tariff applied on U.S. products in "A" column; tariff applied on CIF
   value.
   -- Value Added Tax: 24.5 percent on most products; applied on duty paid
   value.
   -- Excise Tax: Levied on motor vehicles (including motor cycles), up to
   37 percent; sugar and chocolate confectionery, 7 percent; soft drinks
   and preparations for making soft drinks and beer, 17 percent; potatoes,
   50 percent; goods made from potatoes, 40 percent.
   Jordan
   English-language website with the complete tariff schedule for goods
   imported into Jordan and other customs information. The address is
   http://www.customs.gov.jo.
   Kuwait
   -- The tariff applied on most imports is 4 percent.
   -- The tariff applied on tobacco and tobacco products is 70 percent.
   Lebanon
   English language website with tariff schedule and other customs
   information: http://www.customs.gov.lb
   Malta
   English language website with tariff schedule and other customs
   information at http://customs.business-line.com/Default.htm
   -- Go to "The Integrated Tariff." If you do not know the full
   Harmonized System number, search by description.
   -- Duty, VAT, and Levy are levied on the CIF value. Rates are given in
   "The Integrated Tariff.
   Morocco
   Tariff information in French can be found at
   http://www.douane.gov.ma.tarif.
   -- The first column indicates the duty rate for products from the
   United States. Tariffs are applied on CIF value.
   -- The second column indicates the Import Tax, applied on CIF + duty.
   Nicaragua
   Spanish-language website with tariff schedule can be found at
   http://ns.sieca.org.gt/ArancelVigente/Arancel.asp
   Niger
   Tariff information can be found at http://www.cotecna.com.
   -- Tariffs applied on U.S. products: "droit de douane" column; tariffs
   applied on CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax : "taxe sur la valeur ajoutee" column
   -- Statistical Tax: "redevance statistique" column
   -- Community Solidarity Levy: "prelevement commaunitaire de solidarite"
   column
   -- Trade and Industry Profit tax: "benefice industriels et commerciaux"
   column
   -- Customs Computer Processing fee: "redevance informatique" column
   -- Reduced - "reduite"
   Norway
   Tariff information can be found at http://www.toll.no.
   -- Click on "Naeringslivs- informasjon," then "Tolltariffen," then
   "ausnill/ kapitler"
   -- Select tariff chapter desired. The tariff has four columns, right to
   left
   1.)Tariff Number;
   2.) Description of Goods;
   3.) Rate of Duty; percent ad valorem or Norwegian Crowns/kilogram
   4.) Units for measures of quantity
   -- Duties are charged on the CIF value of the shipment.
   -- The Norwegian value added tax is levied on most imports of
   industrial products. The 23 percent rate is charged on the duty paid
   value.
   Pakistan
   Tariff and tax information can be found at http://www.cbr.gov.pk
   Qatar
   Tariff information can be found at
   http://www.qatar.net.qa/customs/gen-e.htm
   -- The tariff assessed on most goods is 4 percent.
   -- The tariff assessed on steel is 20 percent.
   -- The tariff assessed on alcoholic beverages is 100 percent.
   -- Imports of pork and its derivatives are prohibited.
   South African Customs Union
   Tariff information for Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and
   Swaziland) can be found at http://www.cargoinfo.co.za/. SACU members
   have a common external tariff, so the South African tariff schedule can
   be used as a proxy for the tariffs applied by each member country to
   U.S. products.
   Botswana http://www.cargoinfo.co.za/
   -- Tariffs applied on the CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 10% applied on the CIF + duty value.
   Lesotho http://www.cargoinfo.co.za/
   -- Tariffs applied on the CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 10% applied on the CIF + duty value.
   Namibia http://www.cargoinfo.co.za/
   -- Tariffs applied on the CIF value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 8% applied on the CIF + duty value.
   South Africa http://www.cargoinfo.co.za/
   -- Tariffs applied on the FOB value.
   -- Value Added Tax of 14% applied on FOB + duty value.
   Swaziland http://www.cargoinfo.co.za/
   -- Tariffs applied on the CIF value.
   -- A Surcharge (amount unknown) may be levied on the CIF + duty value.
   United Arab Emirates/Dubai
   Tariff information can be found at http://www.dxbcustoms.gov.ae
   United Kingdom
   Limited tariff and tax information for personal importations can be
   found on the United Kingdom Customs and Excise website at
   http://www.hmce.gov.uk/public/info/index.htm
   ISRAEL
   Tariff: U.S. goods (excluding a few agricultural products), which meet
   the US-Israel Free Trade Agreement (FTA) rules of origin, qualify for
   zero (0) duty. The US-Israel FTA rules of origin require that at least
   35 percent of the product be American and/or Israeli origin. A
   U.S.-Israel FTA Certificate of Origin must be completed. For
   information on the Certificate of Origin, see our explanatory document.
   TAMA: Some products are subject to the import uplift (TAMA), which is
   imposed on a CIF basis. The TAMA rate varies by product and is used to
   calculate the VAT and purchase tax.
   Purchase Tax: Information on the domestic purchase tax rate is
   available from the Trade Information Center. Purchase tax is applied on
   CIF value plus the TAMA, plus port fee (if applicable).
   VAT: A VAT of 17 percent is applied on the CIF value, purchase tax ,
   and port fee and other fees (if applicable).
   Port Fee: A port fee of 1.3 percent is assessed on goods shipped by
   sea. It is not charged on goods shipped by air.
   Other Fees: apply to certain products, such as fuel, alcoholic
   beverages, tobacco
   Calculations
   + = added to
   * = multiplied by
   How to Calculate the TAMA (uplift)
   --Step One: CIF + Tariff + (CIF * port fee) = Z
   --Step Two: Z + Z* (importation rate uplift) = Y
   --Information on the importation rate uplift is available from the
   Trade Information Center.
   Note: The TAMA is not payable. The TAMA is used to calculate the base
   on which the Purchase Tax is levied.
   How to Calculate the Purchase Tax
   Y * Purchase Tax Rate = Purchase Tax Payable
   How to Calculate Total Tariff and Taxes
   CIF + Port Fee + Purchase Tax + Tariff + other fees + VAT = Total
   Payable
   5) DETERMINE CHARGES FOR U.S. SHIPMENTS TO US Territories
   PUERTO RICO
   As a U.S. territory, shipments to Puerto Rico are not considered
   exports so duties are not applied.
   A 6.6 percent excise tax levied on the CIF value of goods going to the
   island from the United States.
   GUAM
   As a U.S. territory, Guam has no duty or quota requirements applicable
   on shipments to Territory of Guam.
   However, there are fees and other requirements which apply to the type
   of importation and business.
   1) $5.00 procession fee for all shipments of cargo entering the
   Territory;
   2) Business license requires prior to engaging in any business issued
   by the Department of Revenue and Taxation;
   3) 4% gross receipt tax on all merchandise sold in Guam; and
   4) 4% use tax on all items imported for personal or business use.
   OTHER U.S. TERRITORIES
   Shipments to US Territories are NOT considered exports. There are
   fourteen US territories and possessions: American Samoa, Baker Island,
   Guam, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef,
   Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra
   Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands (US) and Wake Island. Please contact
   the U.S. Department of Interior for more information on shipping to
   these territories at (202) 208-6816.
   6) FIND OUT ABOUT TAX AND TARIFF EXEMPTIONS FOR GIFTS
   The following countries/economies allow gifts to enter the country duty
   free if the value of the gift is below a certain value. Above the
   stated value, import duty and taxes are applied.
   Australia
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $150.
   Bolivia
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $100.
   Canada
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $48.
   Chile
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $600.
   European Union Countries
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $100.
   Hong Kong
   No gift tax is applied.
   Mexico
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $300.
   Namibia
   Zero duty and taxes applied if the value of the gift is less than $400.
   South Africa
   No gift tax is applied if the value is less than R400. Each resident
   may only receive two gifts per year.
   7) CONTACT PRIVATE SECTOR SOURCES FOR TARIFF, TAX, AND OTHER CUSTOMS
   INFORMATION
   WorldTariff, A FedEx Trade Networks Company, publishes worldwide
   customs duty and tax information. WorldTariff collects data from the
   world's customs authorities, then simplifies, standardizes and
   translates it into English. Fully qualified Harmonized System (HS)
   classifications for duty purposes; Complete HS descriptions, covering
   HS Chapters 1-97 on over 100 countries around the world; MFN (Most
   Favored Nation) applied duty rates; Import Taxes; Continually updated;
   Three media formats: online, print and data elements. Questions? Call
   (800) 556-9334, (415) 591-6696 or visit WorldTariff's website at
   www.worldtariff.com.
   TradeRef, offered by Tower Group International, includes the NAFTA
   rules of origin and the tariff schedules for the United States, Mexico,
   and Canada on CD-ROM. Tower can be reached by telephone: 800-889-8723,
   fax: 716-871-3349, or on the Internet at
   http://www.towergroupintl.com/. TradeRef also offers information on the
   Internet.
   Tariffic Computer Products Incorporated sells tariff information in CD
   ROM format. The CD ROM contains comprehensive tariff information on 87
   countries. It includes customs, tariffs and trade control measures for
   commodities in the six-digit Harmonized System. Tariffic also provides
   country information such as the political regime, inflation rate, GDP
   and GNP per capita, and import and export statistics. The company can
   be reached at telephone: (514) 276-1182; fax: (514) 273-9660; email:
   Tariffic@colba.net; or Internet: http://www.tariffic.com/
   Foreign Customs Sources
   Official tariff rates are provided by each country's Customs authority
   only. See our Foreign Trade Offices database for foreign Customs
   authorities contact information.
   8) ASK U.S. CUSTOMS ABOUT TARIFF RATES ON IMPORTS INTO THE UNITED
   STATES
   For tariff rates levied on imports into the United States, please
   contact U.S. Customs. To locate the Customs office near you, please
   refer to our National Export Directory .
   The U.S. tariff schedule can be found at
   http://www.usitc.gov/taffairs.htm. From the website go to Interactive
   Tariff Database.

     For assistance with exporting U.S. products contact 1-800-USA-TRADE
            Trade Information Center, U.S. Department of Commerce
                             Fax: (202) 482-4473

        Contact TIC | About Us | Site Map | FAQs | Privacy Statement
      U.S. Department of Commerce | International Trade Administration

    International Copyright U.S. Department of Commerce 2000: All Rights
                   Reserved outside of the United States.
