http://subsurface.inel.gov/information/newsletter/Vol2Iss4/strontium.asp

   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory
   Security/Privacy
   HOME | Site Index | Staff Directory | Jobs | Contact Us
   _______________ [go.gif]


   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory Home Page

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002

   Subsurface Home Page
   Home
   [pixel.gif] This Issue:
   [pixel.gif] Stimulating Biogeochemical Reactions to Sequester Strontium
   -more- [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif] Dr. Gill Geesey--New SSI Biosciences Discipline Lead
   -more-
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif] LASIMS Research Yields Unexpected Results
   -more-
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif] Investigating Fate and Mobility of Actinides, Fission
   Products and Other Contaminants
   -more-
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif] Triangulating on the ESRP Aquifer
   -more-
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif] Board Lauds Progress; Urges Itensified Science Planning
   -more-
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif] New SSI/INRA Liaison
   -more-
   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif]

                             Newsletter Archives

   [pixel.gif]
   [pixel.gif]

                       Newsletter Mailing List Sign-up

   [pixel.gif]

   [Subsurface_Masthead400px.jpg]



                      December 2001, Volume 2, Issue 4

                                                          Dr. Rick Colwell
     Do native microbial populations hold the key to halting the spread of
   heavy metals and radionuclides in the vadose zone? Dr. Rick Colwell and
                           his team of researchers are trying to find out.

   SubsurfaceTopics is the quarterly newsletter for the Subsurface Science
      Initiative. Newsletter topics include program activities, updates on
    development of the planned Subsurface Geosciences Laboratory, features
       on specific research projects, hiring announcements, and updates on
   research collaborations and partnerships. Sign up to get on our mailing
                                                                     list.

   Stimulating Biogeochemical Reactions to Sequester Strontium
   Finding ways to immobilize subsurface contaminants such as heavy metals
   and radionuclides is among the major goals of the INEELs SSI.
   Strontium-90 is one of DOEs more mobile radionuclides. SSI researchers
   are testing a theory that native microbial communities of the Eastern
   Snake River Plain Aquifer have the biogeochemical capability to
   sequester contaminants, such as the radionuclide strontium-90, by
   precipitating them into calcite.

   If this research effort is successful, it may provide an effective and
   relatively inexpensive method of immobilizing strontium-90 in Western
   aquifers.

   Stimulating urea hydrolysis may be the key
   Stimulating the ureolytic activity of native microbial communities
   could initiate calcite formation in aquifers and vadose zones
   contaminated with inorganics. Calcite (calcium carbonate) is a common
   mineral that can incorporate divalent metal ionssuch as strontium,
   cadmium, lead and cobaltinto its crystal structure. In Western
   aquifers, calcite is stable and radionuclides are held within its
   mineral matrix until their radioactivity levels decay to background
   levels and beyond.

                                                          [Bpasteurii.jpg]
       This scanning electron micrograph shows spherical or oblong calcite
    particles formed by Bacillus pasteurii urea hydrolysis activity, shown
                                           here adhered to the particles.

   Conditions for calcite formation are improved by urea hydrolysis
   (metabolizing urea), which produces the compounds ammonia and
   carbonate. The combination of carbonate and high pH (from ammonia)
   stimulates calcite precipitation.

   1st: Lab-scale tests
   The research team ascertained the conditions most likely to stimulate
   the ureolytic activity of the aquifers indigenous microorganisms.
   University of Toronto scientist Grant Ferris had used Bacillus
   pasteurii, a model urea hydrolyzer, in laboratory investigations of
   calcite precipitation. Selected isolates from INEEL aquifer samples,
   however, indicated that the indigenous microbes could not metabolize
   urea without a supplementary carbon source.

   The research team tested several carbon sources; molasses proved to be
   both inexpensive and effective. Using a 0.1% molasses solution as a
   source of carbon and energy, significant urea hydrolysis and an
   accompanying increase in pH were detectable over a 35-day incubation
   period. An increase in overall cell numbers was also observed.

                                Applicability of Push-Pull Testing Studied
    In a push-pull test, a solution is injected into a well and allowed to
       rest for a period of time. Then the well is incrementally pumped so
           groundwater samples can be analyzed for evidence of appropriate
                                                      biological activity.

     Though push-pull tests have been used for years in oil recovery, they
      have only recently been applied to bioremediation research, and only
        rarely in fractured basalt. Push-pull tests are constrained by the
          combined effect of aquifer flow rate and the time needed for the
   injected solution to work. In an extreme case, testing a slow microbial
     process in a rapidly moving aquifer could result in the test solution
    being swept away before the microbes have an opportunity to react. (In
         areas with fast-moving groundwater, the push-pull method could be
                                           adapted to a dual-well system.)

          The research team studying biogeochemical reactions to sequester
         strontium (discussed in the article above), first conducted three
   drawdown tests to characterize the hydrology of the basalts accessed by
       the test well. Then they injected potassium bromide, a conservative
   tracer, into the well to determine the rate of groundwater flow. Twelve
          days later, the well was pumped. Throughout the pumping process,
      bromide concentrations were measured to provide insight into aquifer
                                                flow and dispersion rates.

        During the test, 90% of the bromide was recovered, indicating that
   sample loss due to groundwater flow may not be a significant problem at
    the test well. This bodes well for the push-pull methods applicability
                                                             at the INEEL.

   2nd: Field-scale tests
   A suitable well for a push-pull test was selected (see box below).
   Groundwater samples from the well were analyzed for an array of ions,
   urea, ammonia, temperature, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, redox and
   pH. The numbers of microbial cells and urease-positive cells were
   estimated.

   Direct microscopic counts of bacterial cells in the groundwater samples
   combined with statistical analysis indicated the presence of
   urease-positive cells, but in lower concentrations than found in soils.
   With such a low concentration of urease-positive cells, kinetic
   analysis showed a low rate of urea hydrolysis and low enzymatic
   affinity for urea, compared to similar data from soils.

   Next, a test solution was prepared. This consisted of urea, molasses
   and potassium bromide (as a tracer), diluted in 1,000 liters of water
   from the test well. The solution was pumped into the well.

   Over a 25-day period, 200 liters of water were extracted daily and
   samples were subjected to the same tests used for the pre-test samples.
   In a planned follow-up test, urea alone will be injected into the well
   and the amount of urease activity will be measured again to determine
   whether there is a lasting effect from the initial stimulation.

   Preliminary results indicate the test solution significantly increased
   the number of urea-hydrolyzing organisms and the population appears to
   be stable. Results also reveal interesting geochemical effects and a
   persistence of increased cell numbers long after the urea and bromide
   could no longer be detected in the well.

   3rd: Bridging the gap between lab and field
   If calcite precipitation is used as a remediation technique, having the
   ability to track key members of the microbial community will help
   monitor the progress of the urea stimulation. The research team is
   attempting to characterize the composition of the unaltered microbial
   community and to determine how that composition is affected by urea
   stimulation and whether stimulation has any long-term community
   effects.

   "We have shown that push-pull microbial stimulation has a lasting
                    effect on the biotic community.

   Currently, laboratory cultures grown from field samples are being used
   to assess both cell numbers and urease activity. However, INEEL
   microbiologist and project lead Rick Colwell noted that culturing
   environmental microorganisms in the laboratory can be a tricky
   business, because environmental organisms vary in how well they survive
   under laboratory conditions. The composition of cultured microorganisms
   may not reflect the actual composition of the community in its natural
   environment.

   To address this issue and supplement the cultural assays, the research
   team and Anna-Louise Reysenbach of Portland State University are
   developing genetic tests for ureolytic organisms using urease-specific
   primers developed by Idaho State University graduate student Tina
   Tyler. These primers have already demonstrated an ability to detect the
   presence of the urease gene in samples from the test well, and they
   will be used to analyze cells filtered from groundwater before and
   after the urea treatment.

   Future of Biogeochemical Sequestration
   The push-pull test demonstrated that the microbial community can be
   readily manipulated. Based on what weve seen so far, we have a good
   idea of where to go with the push-pull technique, said INEEL
   microbiologist Mark Delwiche. Its a complicated reaction, so we cant
   expect to see immediate calcite formation in the first run, but
   importantly, we have shown that push-pull microbial stimulation has a
   lasting effect on the biotic community.

   Note: The research team is led by Rick Colwell, Ph.D. and includes Carl
   Palmer, Ph.D.; Mark Delwiche; Yoshiko Fujita, Ph.D.; Dave Cummings,
   Ph.D.; Joanna Taylor and Tina Tyler. This project is one of a series of
   experiments aimed at developing a technique for in situ biogeochemical
   entrapment of strontium-90. It is funded by the INEELs Environmental
   Systems Research and Analysis program and builds on Environmental
   Management Science Program projects at Oregon State University. Credit
   is given to Bob Smith, Ph.D. (now of University of Idaho) for his work
   on this project and the EMSP calcite precipitation project.

   Contacts:   Rick Colwell, Ph.D.
               Lead Researcher
               208-526-0097
               fxc@inel.gov

   Page contact: Deborah Hill, subsurf@inel.gov.

   [pixel.gif] [pixel_blk.gif]
   [pixel.gif] [pixel_grn.gif]
   Updated: Wednesday, January 09, 2002
   For general inquiries about INEEL, please call 1-800-708-2680
   © 2001 Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC. All rights reserved.
   Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC is an EEO/AA employer
   Feedback
   The INEEL is operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC.
   Click to visit DOE's website.
