http://pilc.grc.nasa.gov/meetings/minneapolis/prop-charter.txt

   WG name: Performance Implications of Link Characteristics (PILC) Area:
   Transport Area Advisor: Vern Paxson WG Chairs: Aaron Falk Spencer
   Dawkins Description: The Internet network-layer and transport-layer
   protocols are designed to accommodate a very wide range of networking
   technologies and characteristics. Nevertheless, experience has shown
   that the particular properties of different network links can have a
   significant impact on the performance of Internet protocols operating
   over those links, and on the performance of connections along paths
   that include such links. This is especially of concern to the wireless
   networking community. The PILC working group will produce several
   Informational/BCP documents. The first document to be produced will
   contain advice to those utilizing terrestrial wireless links (so-called
   long, thin networks). Next, a document discussing considerations for
   link-layer designers from the perspective of best supporting existing
   IETF protocols will be produced. The next document will discuss the
   capabilities, limitations and pitfalls of "performance enhancing
   proxies" (PEPs), that is, active network elements that modify or splice
   end-to-end flows in an attempt to enhance the performance they attain
   in the face of particular link characteristics. The remaining documents
   will each discuss the impact and mitigations for a problematic
   link-layer characteristic (or group of closely related
   characteristics). All documents will identify which of their
   considerations remain research topics versus which are established as
   advanced development. Research topics will be explicitly flagged as not
   part of any recommendations. The working group will also serve as a
   forum for discussing possible modifications to IETF protocols to
   improve performance in environments with problematic link
   characteristics - however, not to the detriment of performance and
   stability in the general Internet, nor to undermine existing security
   models. Milestones May 1999 Draft on significantly low bandwidth links.
   Draft on lossy links. Document on long-thin networks sent to the IESG
   for publication. June 1999 Draft of link-layer design considerations
   document. Draft of PEP capabilities and limitations document. Draft on
   asymmetric network paths. Oct 1999 Draft of "TCP Over Wireless"
   overview/pointer document. Nov 1999 Document on low bandwidth links to
   IESG for publication as Informational. Document on high BER links to
   IESG for publication as Informational. Document on link-layer design
   considerations submitted for publication as BCP. Document on PEP
   capabilities and limitations submitted for publication as
   Informational. Document on asymmetric network paths submitted to the
   IESG for publication as Information. TCP Over Wireless document to the
   IESG. Possible rechartering of WG to address modifications to IETF
   protocols.
