http://tcpsat.lerc.nasa.gov/tcpsat-charter.txt

   TCP Over Satellite (tcpsat) --------------------------- Charter Last
   Modified: 21-Apr-99 Current Status: Active Working Group Chair(s):
   Aaron Falk Transport Area Director(s): Scott Bradner Vern Paxson
   Transport Area Advisor: Vern Paxson Mailing Lists: General
   Discussion:tcpsat@grc.nasa.gov To Subscribe: majordomo@grc.nasa.gov In
   Body: subscribe tcpsat your_email_address Archive:
   http://tcpsat.grc.nasa.gov/tcpsat/mail.html Description of Working
   Group: Satellites are being used to extend the Global Internet
   geographically and will be more ubiquitous in the next decade with the
   deployment of several proposed services capable of providing greater
   than T1 access to individual users anywhere in the world. Yet,
   satellite links have a unique combination of characteristics that can
   affect the throughput of TCP traffic. Because of the high-bandwidth
   delay product, slow start and congestion control algorithms behave much
   differently when the path includes a satellite link than exclusively
   terrestrial ones. The TCP over Satellite Working Group shall produce an
   informational RFC which describes the issues affecting TCP throughput
   over satellite links. It identifies the domains in which each issue
   applies, including network topology, satellite orbit (LEO, MEO, GEO),
   and link rates; fixes, both protocol and implementation, that
   ameliorate reduced throughput; and areas for further research. The
   purpose of including this information is to direct the research
   community to the areas in which show promise, not to perform the
   research or even advocate the results. Scope: The scope of this working
   group will include consideration of the following for inclusion in the
   Informational RFC: o Transport layer issues affecting TCP over
   satellite links o Existing TCP options o Compliant implementations
   which have some known improved performance over satellite links o
   Recommendation of well understood protocol changes o Identification of
   protocol changes that are potentially promising but require more
   further investigation in order to be well understood SECURITY The
   working group will consider in depth security issues that are relevant,
   describing risks and indicating how they may be addressed. Goals and
   Milestones: Jul 97 Post first Internet-Draft. Aug 97 Meet at Munich
   IETF to review Internet-Draft. Dec 97 Meet at DC IETF tyo achieve
   consensus on final version of Internet-Draft. Jan 98 Submit
   Internet-Draft to IESG for consideration as an Informational RFC.
   Internet-Drafts: Posted Revised I-D Title ------ -------
   ------------------------------------------ Dec 97 Oct 99 Ongoing TCP
   Research Related to Satellites Request For Comments: RFC Stat Published
   Title ------- -- ---------- -----------------------------------------
   RFC2488 Jan 99 Enhancing TCP Over Satellite Channels using Standard
   Mechanisms
