http://egov.gov/documents/gpealaw.doc

   TITLE : Government Paperwork Elimination Act. 44 USC 3504 note.>>
   XVII--GOVERNMENT PAPERWORK ELIMINATION ACT SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE. This
   title may be cited as the ``Government Paperwork Elimination Act''.
   SEC. 1702. AUTHORITY OF OMB TO PROVIDE FOR ACQUISITION AND USE OF
   ALTERNATIVE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES BY EXECUTIVE AGENCIES. Section
   3504(a)(1)(B)(vi) of title 44, United States Code, is amended to read
   as follows: ``(vi) the acquisition and use of information technology,
   including alternative information technologies that provide for
   electronic submission, maintenance, or disclosure of information as a
   substitute for paper and for the use and acceptance of electronic
   signatures.''. SEC. 1703. PROCEDURES FOR USE AND ACCEPTANCE OF
   ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES BY EXECUTIVE AGENCIES. (a) In General.--In order
   to fulfill the responsibility to administer the functions assigned
   under chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, the provisions of the
   Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (divisions D and E of Public Law 104-106) and
   the amendments made by that Act, and the provisions of this title, the
   Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, in consultation
   with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and
   not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act,
   develop procedures for the use and acceptance of electronic signatures
   by Executive agencies. (b) Requirements for Procedures.--(1) The
   procedures developed under subsection (a)-- (A) shall be compatible
   with standards and technology for electronic signatures that are
   generally used in commerce and industry and by State governments; (B)
   may not inappropriately favor one industry or technology; (C) shall
   ensure that electronic signatures are as reliable as is appropriate for
   the purpose in question and keep intact the information submitted; (D)
   shall provide for the electronic acknowledgment of electronic forms
   that are successfully submitted; and (E) shall, to the extent feasible
   and appropriate, require an Executive agency that anticipates receipt
   by electronic means of 50,000 or more submittals of a particular form
   to take all steps necessary to ensure that multiple methods of
   electronic signatures are available for the submittal of such form. (2)
   The Director shall ensure the compatibility of the procedures under
   paragraph (1)(A) in consultation with appropriate private bodies and
   State government entities that set standards for the use and acceptance
   of electronic signatures. SEC. 1704. DEADLINE FOR IMPLEMENTATION BY
   EXECUTIVE AGENCIES OF PROCEDURES FOR USE AND ACCEPTANCE OF ELECTRONIC
   SIGNATURES. In order to fulfill the responsibility to administer the
   functions assigned under chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code,
   the provisions of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (divisions D and E of
   Public Law 104-106) and the amendments made by that Act, and the
   provisions of this title, the Director of the Office of Management and
   Budget shall ensure that, commencing not later than five years after
   the date of enactment of this Act, Executive agencies provide-- (1) for
   the option of the electronic maintenance, submission, or disclosure of
   information, when practicable as a substitute for paper; and (2) for
   the use and acceptance of electronic signatures, when practicable. SEC.
   1705. ELECTRONIC STORAGE AND FILING OF EMPLOYMENT FORMS. In order to
   fulfill the responsibility to administer the functions assigned under
   chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, the provisions of the
   Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (divisions D and E of Public Law 104-106) and
   the amendments made by that Act, and the provisions of this title, the
   Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, not later than
   18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, develop procedures
   to permit private employers to store and file electronically with
   Executive agencies forms containing information pertaining to the
   employees of such employers. SEC. 1706. STUDY ON USE OF ELECTRONIC
   SIGNATURES. (a) Ongoing Study Required.--In order to fulfill the
   responsibility to administer the functions assigned under chapter 35 of
   title 44, United States Code, the provisions of the Clinger-Cohen Act
   of 1996 (divisions D and E of Public Law 104-106) and the amendments
   made by that Act, and the provisions of this title, the Director of the
   Office of Management and Budget shall, in cooperation with the National
   Telecommunications and Information Administration, conduct an ongoing
   study of the use of electronic signatures under this title on-- (1)
   paperwork reduction and electronic commerce; (2) individual privacy;
   and (3) the security and authenticity of transactions. (b)
   Reports.--The Director shall submit to Congress on a periodic basis a
   report describing the results of the study carried out under subsection
   (a). SEC. 1707. ENFORCEABILITY AND LEGAL EFFECT OF ELECTRONIC RECORDS.
   Electronic records submitted or maintained in accordance with
   procedures developed under this title, or electronic signatures or
   other forms of electronic authentication used in accordance with such
   procedures, shall not be denied legal effect, validity, or
   enforceability because such records are in electronic form. SEC. 1708.
   DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION. Except as provided by law, information
   collected in the provision of electronic signature services for
   communications with an executive agency, as provided by this title,
   shall only be used or disclosed by persons who obtain, collect, or
   maintain such information as a business or government practice, for the
   purpose of facilitating such communications, or with the prior
   affirmative consent of the person about whom the information pertains.
   SEC. 1709. APPLICATION WITH INTERNAL REVENUE LAWS. No provision of this
   title shall apply to the Department of the Treasury or the Internal
   Revenue Service to the extent that such provision-- (1) involves the
   administration of the internal revenue laws; or (2) conflicts with any
   provision of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act
   of 1998 or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. SEC. 1710. DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this title: (1) Electronic signature.--The term
   ``electronic signature'' means a method of signing an electronic
   message that-- (A) identifies and authenticates a particular person as
   the source of the electronic message; and (B) indicates such person's
   approval of the information contained in the electronic message. (2)
   Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has the meaning given
   that term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code. Title XVII:
   Government Paperwork Elimination Act - Government Paperwork Elimination
   Act - Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget: (1)
   in providing direction and overseeing the acquisition and use of
   information technology, to include alternative information technologies
   that provide for electronic submission, maintenance, or disclosure of
   information as a substitute for paper and for the use and acceptance of
   electronic signatures; (2) to develop procedures for the use and
   acceptance of electronic signatures by executive agencies; (3) to
   ensure that, within five years, executive agencies provide for the
   option of electronic maintenance, submission, or disclosure of
   information as a substitute for paper and for the use and acceptance of
   electronic signatures, when practicable; (4) to develop procedures to
   permit private employers to store and file electronically with
   executive agencies forms containing information pertaining to
   employees; and (5) in cooperation with the National Telecommunications
   and Information Administration, to conduct and report the Congress on
   an ongoing study of the use of electronic signatures on paperwork
   reduction and electronic commerce, individual privacy, and the security
   and authenticity of transactions. (Sec. 1707) Provides for: (1) the
   enforceability and legal effect of electronic signatures; (2)
   protection from disclosure of information collected in the provision of
   electronic signature services for executive agencies; and (3)
   applicability exceptions with respect to administration of the internal
   revenue laws.
