http://levin.senate.gov/issues/medicare.htm

   HOME


                             [headmedicare.gif]

   Congress has a unique opportunity to improve and modernize the Medicare
   program. I am hopeful that members from both sides of the aisle will
   work together to improve one of nation's most important entitlement
   programs ensuring its solvency and prosperity for years to come.

   As part of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, Congress established
   two health care financing programs Medicare and Medicaid. Medicare is a
   federal health insurance program for our nation's elderly and disabled
   persons. Medicaid is a medical assistance program for certain needy
   individuals.

   As a proponent of the Medicare program, I am aware of the need to
   improve and preserve Medicare for the 21st century. In its current
   structure, the Medicare program is antiquated and needs to be
   modernized as Americans life expectancy continues to grow. There are
   currently 75 million baby boomers in the United States and Medicare
   will not be able to handle the increased volume of beneficiaries in the
   next decade. The solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund is projected until
   2029.

   Congress should act as soon as possible to modernize Medicare including
   the adding a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program.
   Prescription drugs have become an essential element of medicine, in
   some cases replacing the need of an operating table which was
   commonplace 30 years ago. A prescription drug benefit should be an
   entitlement under Medicare, available as an option to any beneficiary
   who receives other Medicare hospital insurance or medical insurance.

   There are other important issues that I feel should be addressed
   regarding Medicare. One of those issues is providing long-term care to
   our nation's seniors. Medicare does not currently provide long-term
   care and many of our elderly have no one to provide for them. Providing
   long-term care is an issue that Congress should address this year.
   Another issue is stop-loss or "catastrophic" coverage. Many of our
   nation's seniors are forced to spend much of their retirement savings
   paying for unforeseeable illnesses. Catastrophic coverage as part of
   the Medicare benefits package would assist in helping to pay for these
   costs.

   I have been supportive of other initiatives to improve Medicare. These
   changes reflect modifying payment policies as well as the overall
   administration of the program. Some of these initiatives include:
     * stabilizing the Medicare+Choice program (the Medicare managed care
       option);
     * eliminating the 15 percent reduction in payment rates for home
       health services under the prospective payment system;
     * continuing to develop ways to reverse the unintended consequences
       of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) and its adverse impact on
       Medicare providers.

   These are issues important to the American people and it is my hope
   that Congress will act to help preserve this program vital to our some
   of our nation's most vulnerable populations.

                                [brblgrv.gif]

       Carl's Bio * Photo Gallery* Michigan Services* Senate Activity

          Press Page * Federal Links * Student Info * Contact Carl
