http://outsource.gsfc.nasa.gov/html/about.html


   ODIN Banner
               image
               Services/Seat Info

                                 image

                                 Contract Info About

                                                    image

                                                    Documents Links


   image

        What is ODIN?

        Outsourcing Desktop Initiative for NASA (ODIN) is a program to
        implement the outsourcing of NASA's desktop computing environment.
        ODIN is intended to develop a long-term outsourcing arrangement with
        the commercial sector which transfers to it the responsibility and risk
        for providing and managing the vast majority of NASA's desktop, server,
        and intra-Center communication assets and services as the Agency
        downsides and refocuses IT personnel to Agency core missions.
        Additionally, this contract is utilized by other Agencies with external
        agency order placement and administration being handled in accordance
        with the procedures specified by the GSA / FTS organization.  ODIN will
        include hardware and software acquisition, as well as maintenance,
        helpdesk, and other ancillary support services for general purpose
        workstations for NASA civil servants and on-site contractors. Goddard
        Space Flight Center leads the ODIN effort, working closely with
        representatives from the other Centers and NASA headquarters. The ODIN
        team also works closely with industry to ensure that requirements,
        enhancements, and revisions are defined in a way which results in an
        effective outsourcing contract.

        How Will ODIN Benefit Your Agency

        Government agencies face a number of challenges in managing their
        information technology (IT) and communications environments.  Change is
        a constant in the IT world; the need for corporate interoperability,
        the dependence on the network as a mission critical component, and a
        continuing requirement to dedicate resources just to stay abreast of
        technology are common problems faced by every federal agency.  Add flat
        or declining budgets, and the inability to attract and adequately
        compensate highly skilled IT workers, and innovation becomes a
        necessity.

        NASA, through the use of the Outsourcing Desktop Initiative for NASA
        (ODIN), has accepted this challenge by implementing an innovative,
        long-term outsourcing arrangement with the commercial sector which
        transfers to it the responsibility and risk for providing and managing
        the vast majority of NASA's desktop, server and intra-center
        communications assets and services.

        What does ODIN mean to you?
          * No longer having to purchase desktop hardware and software.  The
            ODIN vendor does this, and you pay a monthly fee per seat for the
            "service",
          * A "one-stop-shop" Help Desk for all your IT requirements (both ODIN
            and non-ODIN),
          * Automatic hardware and software technology refreshments at the
            frequency you determine,
          * "Lemon Law" provision and independent equipment benchmarking by
            NSTL to ensure you receive top-quality desktops,
          * Standards and architecture management mechanisms - you still
            control your IT environment through government-managed change
            control procedures,
          * Allowance for Government ownership of assets where it's determined
            (by you) to be in the government's best interest,
          * Allowance for installation and use of non-outsourcer provided
            hardware and software,
          * Complete customization of service levels and desktop
            characteristics at the individual seat level,
          * A comprehensive catalogue of services and commercial components to
            ensure no service is left out of your organization's requirements,
          * Unwinding provisions to allow transition of contractor-owned assets
            at termination (to the government or another ODIN or non-ODIN
            contractor), and,
          * The ability to modify delivery order quantities and configurations
            on a monthly basis.

        In summary, with ODIN you can buy only what you need, for as long as
        you need it!
