http://images.jsc.nasa.gov/iams/html/use.txt

   NASA generally does not assert copyright in its imagery, and therefore,
   permission to reproduce is not required. However, NASA photographs and
   other imagery may not be used in any manner such as to state or imply
   an endorsement by the Agency or any of its employees of any commercial
   product or process. NASA, or the National Aeronautics and Space
   Administration, should be credited as the source of the imagery.
   Commercial use of NASA imagery in which a recognizable individual
   appears may infringe a right of privacy or publicity, which is personal
   to the individual. NASA's emblematic designs are protected by statute
   and implementing regulations, specifically, 14 CFR Part 1221, Subpart
   1221.1 -- NASA Seal, NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program
   Identifiers, NASA Flags, and the Agency's Unified Visual Communications
   System. Reproduction Guidelines for Use of NASA Emblems on the Internet
   There are strict rules regarding the use of the various NASA emblems
   (the NASA Seal, the NASA Insignia, the NASA Logo, mission emblems,
   program logos, etc.). Since some of the NASA emblems are trademarks,
   please be advised that it may be illegal to download any of the emblems
   for certain uses. Any questions regarding application of any NASA
   emblem should be directed to: Bert Ulrich Public Services Division NASA
   Headquarters Code POS Washington, DC 20546 Tel: (202)358-1713 Fax:
   (202)358-4331 Internet: bulrich@pao.hq.nasa.gov Please be advised that:
   1) NASA does not endorse or sponsor any commercial product, service, or
   activity. 2) The use of the NASA name, initials, any NASA emblems
   (including the NASA Insignia, the NASA Logo and the NASA Seal) which
   would express or imply such endorsement or sponsorship is strictly
   prohibited. 3) Use of the NASA name or initials as an identifying
   symbol by organizations other than NASA (such as on foods, packaging,
   containers, signs, or any promotional material) is prohibited. 4) NASA
   does permit the use of the NASA Logo and Insignia on novelty and
   souvenir-type items. However, such items may be sold and manufactured
   only after a proposal has been submitted to and approved by a
   representative from the Public Services Division (see above information
   for address, numbers, etc.) in accordance with 14 CFR (Code of Federal
   Regulations) Part 1221. Permission is granted on a nonexclusive basis
   as it is not NASA's policy to grant exclusive rights to use any of the
   Agency identities. 5) No approval for use is authorized by NASA when
   the use can be construed as an endorsement by NASA of a product,
   service, or activity. 6) NASA emblems should be reproduced only from
   original reproduction proofs, transparencies, or computer files
   available from NASA Headquarters. Please be advised that approval must
   be granted by the Public Services Division (see above information for
   address, numbers, etc.) before any reproduction materials can be
   obtained.
