http://fire.pppl.gov/eu_fast_track_101201.pdf

   Conclusions of the Fusion Fast Track Experts Meeting held on 27
   November 2001 on the initiative of Mr. De Donnea, President of the
   Research Council Experts participating in the meeting: Prof. David KING
   (Chairman) Mr. Marcel GAUBE Prof. Angelo AIRAGHI Dr. Lars HOGBERG Prof.
   Harald BOLT Mr. Gabriel MARBACH Dr. Joaquin CALVO Mr. Steven WALSGROVE
   Mr. Bernard PROIS We examined a possible fast track towards fusion
   energy production with reference to the tentative Roadmap elaborated in
   2000 by the Panel in charge of Assessment of the Euratom programme (see
   figure). This Roadmap foresees three successive generations of devices,
   the Next Step (ITER in the international context), DEMO achieving net
   electricity production about 35 years after the decision to construct
   ITER, and PROTO. This would lead to the beginning of large-scale
   electricity production in a time scale of about 50 years. The Roadmap
   also shows that the parallel development of appropriate fusion
   materials and the demonstration of environmental and safety case
   supporting wide use of fusion power should be completed in time for
   DEMO. We have reached the following conclusions on the topics listed in
   the mandate established by the Research Council Presidency (see annex).
   We would be happy to hold a second meeting on these issues if requested
   to do so by the Council Presidency. 1. The ITER project is the
   essential step towards energy production on a fast track. The
   engineering design has been finalized, and a modest upgrading could
   readily be achieved over the life of ITER, by fully exploring the
   inherent flexibility of the present ITER design in demonstrating the
   technical feasibility of fusion power on a 20-30 year timescale. The
   tests of breeding and energy extraction blanket modules prototyping the
   full size blanket for DEMO should receive particular attention. 2.
   Future commercial systems are likely to be energy-injected and not
   self-sustained. Since the DEMO generation is energy-injected, current
   thinking is that in a fast track approach, the DEMO and PROTO
   generations could be combined into a single step that should be
   designed as a credible prototype for a power-producing fusion reactor,
   although in itself not fully technically and economically optimized.
   This would depend strongly on the development of adequate materials, as
   discussed in 4 below. 3. The emphasis in the research work on ITER
   should be on demonstration of sustained fusion power production and
   extraction; ITER will serve as an enabling research machine regardless
   of the design of later commercial reactors. Within the EU fusion
   programme the fusion Associations should concentrate on accompanying
   R&D for ITER and plasma physics. Other European facilities such as
   stellerators and spherical tokamaks should address possible
   improvements of concepts and of design for future reactors. 4. The
   mission of fusion materials science is to provide solutions for a
   sustainable, environmentally benign and economically attractive energy
   technology. In addition to the essential information provided by ITER
   on plasma facing materials an appropriate high-energy, high intensity
   neutron source such as the International Fusion Material Irradiation
   Facility (IFMIF) is required to test and verify material performance
   when subjected to extensive neutron irradiation of the type encountered
   in a fusion reactor. In a fast track approach, the detailed engineering
   design of IFMIF should be examined to identify to which extent relevant
   studies could be done on Neutron Spallation Sources available now and
   in the foreseeable future in Europe or elsewhere. 5. From the above
   results that the following elements are of key importance to achieve a
   faster track towards fusion energy production: * Construction of ITER
   should start as soon as reasonably achievable. As a first step, the
   present mandate of negotiations with the EU international partners
   regarding the ways of establishing an ITER Legal Entity should be soon
   extended in order to address ITER cost sharing and site dependent
   issues. * The two major international ventures on fusion energy
   development, i.e. ITER and IFMIF should proceed in a co-ordinated way,
   with the realization of ITER starting in parallel with the detailed
   engineering design of IFMIF. * Regarding the use of existing fusion
   devices, mostly devoted to plasma physics, in particular the use of the
   JET facilities, it is important not to interrupt abruptly their
   programmes as long as they can efficiently continue to contribute to
   improve the knowledge base needed for the next steps and develop the
   necessary experience in operating fusion machines, JET should be phased
   out progressively according to the schedule of the ITER realization and
   to the availability of financial resources. These elements of a faster
   track towards fusion energy production will require additional
   resources in the first leg of the track, in particular during FP6 and
   FP7, as more activities need to be done in parallel. Eventually the
   total amount of public funding to reach the long-term objective could
   be reduced substantially if it proves possible to save one generation
   of fusion devices. These additional resources for the first leg of the
   track should be sought also by expanding the international
   collaboration. A clear lead from Europe could be expected to generate a
   positive response from both existing and potential ITER partners. 6. At
   the present stage of fusion energy research, industry is mostly
   involved through the construction of fusion devices and through its
   participation in the ITER design. From this point of view most of the
   financial resources required for the construction of ITER should go to
   industry. The role of industry in the engineering of fusion devices
   should grow significantly during the realization of ITER, and later of
   DEMO/PROTO. The direct involvement of the electricity producers, the
   utilities, should increase progressively along the route to energy
   production. However, in order to drive the programme most efficiently
   towards power production it is important to harness the energies of
   individuals within the industrial communities including engineering
   companies, component manufacturers and electricity producers to assist
   in managing all phases of the programme. The existing fora where
   utilities and industry can bring in their views on fusion energy
   research should extend further their activities in order to ensure that
   fusion developments meet industrial requirements for energy production.
   Brussels, 5 December 2001 20.11.2001 Draft Mandate for Fusion Fast
   Track Working Group: Mission Assess scope and ways of organizing the
   programme with a view to producing a "fast track" roadmap for fusion,
   with the clear goal of energy production within 20-30 years. Terms of
   reference: * assess feasibility of fast track scenario enabling goal
   (including ITER) to be met and address corresponding fusion budget
   questions in and beyond FP6 * assess acceleration of materials work,
   with appropriate neutron source * assess options for how to organize
   the EU programme involving industry/utilities to ensure that ITER and
   materials projects are as relevant as possible to the goal of energy
   production from fusion power within 20-30 years * consider ways of
   maximizing co-ordinated international activity on ITER and a neutron
   source for materials, including increased participation of third
   parties (e.g. US) Specific tasks for consideration at first meeting
   (with a view to interim report back to Council Presidency before
   Council of 10 December 2001): 1. First assessment of a fast track
   schedule 2. Acceleration of materials work alongside work on ITER
   _____________________________ Tentative Roadmap of Achievements
   starting from the decision to construct the Next Step Main Achievements
   Required Design Construction Operation Application of results *
   Production and control of long pulse-burning plasma * Heat and
   particles exhaust (plasma facing components) Next Step (1/2 GWth) *
   Test of breeding blanket modules for DEMO & * Net electricity
   production (full hot breeding blanket) sics uction * High reliability
   of operations ying DEMO (2 GWth) rod * Qualification of lower
   activation materials for PROTO an Phy in nology mp * Improved economy
   in electricity production ricity p cco Tech * Improved low activation
   materials A PROTO (1.5 GW ect gramme e) el Pro cale * Demonstration of
   a reference low activation steel for DEMO Material Development e S *
   Search for higher performance materials for PROTO rgLa * Demonstration
   of waste management and recycling * Demonstration of safety management
   Environ. & Safety * Demonstration of low environmental impact potential
   0 10 20 30 40 50 Years after decision on Next Step
