http://www.doi.gov/energy_summit/index.html

                       U.S. Department of the Interior
                 Office of Indian Affairs [niesbanner2.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

   Remarks prepared for delivery by Interior Secretary Gale Norton for the
         Department of the Interior's National Indian Energy Summit
                     Denver, Colorado - December 6, 2001

   Good morning and welcome, honorable tribal leaders, guests, ladies and
   gentlemen. Thank you Neal.

   Neal is the perfect person to help lead this summit - and to lead the
   Bureau of Indian Affairs. His engineering background and his lifelong
   experience with energy enterprises - in an energy intensive state -
   give him a great perspective on the overall economic potential of
   effective, long-term energy development in Indian Country.

   Some 18 years ago, President Reagan said: "Indian tribes and the nation
   stand to gain from the prudent development and management of the vast
   coal, oil, gas, uranium and other resources found on Indian lands."

   President Reagan said: "[T]hese resources can become the foundation for
   economic development ... while lessening our nation's dependence on
   imported oil." His foresight was never more evident than today, in
   light of the tragic events of Sept. 11.

   Just as in other defining times in our history, we 've seen during the
   past three months that, when united, Americans can achieve great
   things. Together - throughout America and Indian Country - we're making
   our natural resources - and our entire country - stronger.

   That's why I'm pleased to be here with you - to kick off this important
   summit on the vital role American Indian and Alaska Natives have in
   creating more energy security for American families. We will explore
   exciting partnerships between tribes, businesses and government to help
   develop and market tribal resources.

   Our energy summit will focus on promising and proven tribal energy
   ventures; on building profitable partnerships between tribes and
   business; and on how federal agencies can assist tribes as they explore
   ways to develop energy.

   Just last week, the Interior Department sponsored a conference with the
   Energy Department on increasing renewable energy on federal lands. We
   determined that we must explore ways to better capture the sun's light,
   the sky's winds, the land's bounty and the Earth's heat.

   American Indians and Alaska Natives actively embrace renewable energy.
   The technologies have the potential to generate power for thousands, if
   not millions, of American homes. A number of tribes are investigating
   or have already developed solar, wind, wave and geothermal power. The
   tribes are creating jobs, bringing economic development to their
   communities and to supporting tribal government by selling excess
   energy. Tribes are leading the way in finding greater energy
   independence. For example, students at four BIA schools study in
   classrooms heated by geothermal energy.

   Over the next two days, we'll hear from tribes who have been successful
   in creating renewable energy. With your insight and history, tribal
   nations will play an important role in increasing renewable energy
   production. With input from this event and last week's conference,
   Energy Secretary Abraham and I will develop recommendations for the
   vice president's task force to strengthen our national energy policies.

   At the Interior Department, we're working to change the tone in which
   we talk about conserving and protecting our environment. We're
   fostering a new culture of communication and cooperation … a culture of
   consultation - all to serve the cause of conservation. It's what the
   administration believes is needed to reach a national energy policy
   that includes both energy development and conservation.

   America needs an energy plan that enhances our national security. True
   national security means America needs an energy plan that reduces
   dependence on foreign oil, creates new jobs, and expands conservation
   programs - all while protecting the environment.

   Earlier this year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed such a
   plan. With the backing of the House's only American Indian member,
   Democratic Congressman Brad Carson, a bipartisan U.S. House majority
   passed the president's energy package.

   And a solid - and growing - group of Senate Democrats support President
   Bush's bipartisan energy strategy.

   Our economy has suffered a blow as a result of Sept. 11. In addition to
   national security, Americans are worried about job security. According
   to calculations from the working men and women of organized labor, the
   president's energy plan will create more than 700,000 good paying
   American jobs. That includes jobs for American Indians and Alaska
   Natives.

   The plan improves energy efficiency and conservation, protects the
   environment, diversifies our supply through renewable sources, and
   reduces our surging reliance on foreign oil.

   So far, the Senate has not allowed a fair vote on the president's
   bipartisan plan. If a vote is allowed, the president's energy strategy
   would pass and become law. This would be a victory for a healthier
   environment; a victory for stable energy prices; a victory for a
   stronger economy; a victory for strong national security; and, my
   friends, a victory for Indian Country.

   Last year, Indian lands generated 9.3 million barrels of oil, nearly
   300 billion cubic feet of gas and 21.4 million short tons of coal.
   According to Interior's Minerals Management Service, the energy
   production on Indian lands is more than 10 percent of the total federal
   onshore production.

   But there is still more to be done. One example is environmentally safe
   development of a small portion of Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife
   Refuge. A portion of ANWR is owned by the Inupiats of Kaktovik Village.
   They can't access their own lands without congressional action. The
   Alaska Federation of Natives support allowing the area to be explored.

   Proposed development would occur in a small section of ANWR called the
   1002 Area. In 1980, the area was specially designated for further study
   of its oil and gas potential by President Carter and Congress. It is
   the nation's largest potential oil field. Energy could start flowing
   from the area in about five years. President Bush's plan would limit
   energy exploration in the 1002 Area to just 2,000 acres out of ANWR's
   19 million.

   To put it into perspective, if the state of Alaska were a football
   field, like Denver's own Invesco Field at Mile High, home of the
   Broncos, ANWR would be on the six-yard line with the 1002 Area on the
   one-half yard line. And the actual area of energy production would
   equal the length of less than one chain link on the 10-yard marker.

   A conservative calculation says the 1002 Area, including Native lands,
   could yield 10.4 billion barrels of oil. ANWR could supply
   approximately 1 million barrels of oil a day - more than 20 percent of
   our domestic oil production.

   American needs the resources from ANWR. The Inupiats of Kaktovik need
   the income from the energy. The Senate needs to allow a vote so the
   project can move forward.

   From Alaska's North Slope to the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, we must form
   partnerships and build on new technologies to ensure a safe
   environment. There are good ideas all over America - and I believe in
   the value of developing partnerships and listening to people. Tribes
   constantly improve resource management techniques. Through partnerships
   formed to create and manage natural resources, tribes make
   contributions to meet America's energy needs.

   This summer, I visited the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Oklahoma. I
   saw free-roaming bison lumber among prairie flowers and oil wells. The
   Nature Conservancy owns the land. The Osage Tribe owns the mineral
   rights. If anything happens to one of the wells, the Nature Conservancy
   calls professors and students at Tulsa University to immediately
   mitigate the situation.

   It's a wonderful win-win situation. The bison herd is thriving. The
   Osage people receive funds from the oil revenues. The university shares
   cost-effective environmental protection ideas with energy producers
   throughout the country. And the students receive training and conduct
   research that improves technology across the nation.

   None of this would be possible without the partnership of the Nature
   Conservancy. They made extraordinary efforts to conserve and protect
   the vast landscapes of Tallgrass Prairie and the plants and wildlife
   there.

   Another example of business-tribal cooperation involves Kinder Morgan,
   the industry partner of the Southern Ute Tribe. Kinder Morgan's
   willingness to work with the tribal government has gone a long way in
   securing a successful partnership with the Southern Ute Tribe. So
   successful, in fact, that the tribe now honors every member over age 60
   with an annual payment of $50,000.

   I can't think of a better use of resources than to take care of those
   who took care of us: our mothers, fathers and grandparents.

   These examples are the result of cooperation and goodwill.

   At the Interior Department we're helping to facilitate tribal energy
   development. The first step a tribe must take in developing its energy
   resources is to identify and catalogue its inventory. That's vital to
   making decisions and designing comprehensive plans for energy
   development. Our Division of Energy and Mineral Resources in Lakewood,
   Colo., through seismic exploration and graphing technologies, provides
   technical expertise to help tribes assess their mineral resources. The
   division works closely with the Colorado School of Mines to produce
   data and management tools. With BIA's assistance, the Southern Ute
   Tribe, for example, has successfully planned long-term growth for
   natural gas development.

   Tribes and industry partners who engage in energy development on trust
   lands often must deal with three agencies - BIA, the Office of Surface
   Mining, and the Bureau of Land Management - for just one project.

   The time and energy these agencies require to manage their part of such
   a project can be daunting. An industry partner's reluctance to run this
   gauntlet can hinder a tribe's ability to benefit from the resources.

   But, we have streamlined the old process by creating, within BIA, an
   "Expediting Team" composed of technical experts from various
   disciplines and within Interior who are involved in resource
   development projects. This will help make development more attractive
   to tribes by bringing a "one-stop shop" to the BIA.

   To help tribes, Assistant Secretary McCaleb has asked the BIA's Office
   of Tribal Government Services to develop a model tribal organization
   that is conducive to energy development.

   BIA will review the governmental structures of three tribes - the Warm
   Springs' Confederated Tribes, the Southern Ute Tribe and the Mandan,
   Hidatsa and Arikara Tribes - for their successful energy development
   efforts. I want to thank them for generously giving us permission to
   include them in our review.

   The tribes' success in energy development is imperative because it
   helps rebuild economies and alleviate poor socio-economic conditions
   found on far too many reservations.

   According to BIA, unemployment on and near Indian lands is 43 percent -
   compared to the national average of 5.4 percent. Another 33 percent,
   living on or near Indian lands, are earning below poverty level wages.
   This is unacceptable. And it compels us to explore ways to change the
   conditions that produced them.

   It has been shown that when a tribe's economy improves, it's able to
   sustain its children, families and communities. Their lives are
   improved. They have hope for the future. And they become contributing
   members of their tribes and of our nation.

   Indeed, the energy production can lift you up. American Indian David
   Tippiconnic, part Comanche-part Cherokee, recently retired as President
   of Phillips-66 Petroleum and Citgo. Leonard Burch, chairman of Southern
   Ute Tribe - and other leaders - some of you here today, brought their
   tribes to prominence with energy production, benefitting the entire
   community.

   Dave Tippiconnic and Chairman Burch are excellent examples of people we
   need, not only in the next generation of leaders to manage tribal
   projects, but to be at the forefront of all energy development in the
   nation.

   Energy development creates educational opportunities. Tribal colleges
   play a major role in developing the workforce to help tribes achieve
   their energy resource goals.

   The tribal colleges' association, the American Indian Higher Education
   Consortium, is well represented at this summit. I hope the consortium
   will add to the discussions on what is needed for American Indian and
   Alaska Native students to pursue their education in business, energy
   and engineering.

   Finally, many of you are interested in the Interior Department's
   proposed initiative to improve and reform the Indian trust system.
   We're actively consulting with tribes and asking: Is the trust system
   working now? Working together, how can we improve it? What are your
   ideas and suggestions about the proposed initiative to improve Indian
   trust programs?

   We need your input and suggestions to make trust reform a reality. We
   have been actively listening to tribes, and gaining their insight.

   Today, I'm announcing our schedule for seven consultation sessions. The
   first session is December 13 in Albuquerque, N.M. We will then listen
   to tribes with meetings in Minneapolis, Oklahoma City, Rapid City, San
   Diego and Anchorage. Our last scheduled consultation meeting is set for
   February 1 in Washington, D.C. We have also launched a new web site at
   www.doi.gov/indiantrust that will provide updated information on our
   reform initiative.

   I share your goal to fix the trust accounting system. Indian Country
   deserves it. And with your ideas, suggestions and participation, we can
   make reform a reality.

   Native people in all parts of this great country have long used the
   natural materials of their environment to feed, shelter and heal
   themselves and their families, to record their histories, to create
   works of art, and to sustain their communities. In short, they have
   used the natural resources at hand, and they have done so with
   reverence, gratitude and wise conservation for future use.

   For this conference to be successful, we need to learn from you. We
   need your input on ways we can be more effective in helping you develop
   the projects you need to be successful. Please bring your ideas to the
   table and actively share them with us. That way our conference will be
   more beneficial and the long term future of Indian energy will be
   stronger.

   Through their energy resources, tribes make a significant contribution
   to the nation's energy supply. You understand the value of replenishing
   and renewing resources for the future. America, in turn, must do its
   part to help tribes strengthen infrastructures and economies so that
   our children, families, and communities will thrive.

   Energy development and conservation are traditional native ideals. Our
   challenge is to conserve our natural energy resources, to use those
   resources wisely and to ensure that they are available now and for
   future generations of Americans.

   This is the lesson you are teaching us. Today we move forward with our
   mission, hand-in-hand, for a better tomorrow in Indian Country, and in
   every corner of this great nation.

   Thank you.

     __________________________________________________________________

     Acceptable Use Policy | Disclaimer | Privacy Statement | Freedom of
                            Information Act (FOIA)

                             [first_gov_logo.gif]

                Get access to over 20,000 government websites
