http://www.centennialofflight.gov/calendar_cf/calendar.cfm




     Home
     About the Commission
     National Plan
     Calendar of Events
     Wright Brothers History
     For Educators & Students
       •Matrix
       •Posters & Bookmark
     History of Aviation
     100 Years of Innovation
     Future of Flight
     Exhibit Info & Brochure
     Sights & Sounds of Aviation
     Contact Us

                                [blackpixel.gif] Centennial of Flight Commission
                                                 Animation
                                                 A Century of Wings

   Calendar of Events Search an Event            Submit an Event
   Welcome to the U.S. Centennial of Flight Commission's "Calendar of
   Events." The sites and links provided here are intended to give you
   information about activities listed on the calendar. We have populated
   the calendar with a few aviation events for the initial take off roll.
   The "Submit an Event" feature will allow you to submit information
   about upcoming events that are related to the centennial of flight, the
   history of aviation, and/or aviation in general. We are looking for
   events that meet the following criteria:
    1. Sponsored by a reputable organization that is willing to provide
       basic details about itself and its event;
    2. Open to the public or have a large invited attendance; and
    3. Relevant to the centennial of powered flight or the history of
       aviation.

   All events submitted via the "Submit Event" button will be reviewed in
   the order in which they are received, and then, if appropriate, posted
   on the calendar.

   Event planners may wish to request special recognition by the
   Commission. If recognized, an airplane will be placed on the calendar
   next to the event. In addition, planners of recognized events may be
   able to use the U.S. Centennial of Flight (COFC) logo in the following
   ways:
    1. Display the logo in conjunction with the event and event
       advertising;
    2. Use the COFC special recognition as an aid in promoting the event
       to potential sponsors, donors, and/or partners; and
    3. Enter into product licensing arrangements with NASA that include
       use of the Commission logo on a case by case basis.

   The Commission's History and Education Panel has established a
   clearly-defined process for the selection of events that will be
   recognized by the Commission. That process involves completing the form
   that appears on the "Submit an Event" web page once the question "Would
   you like your event to be recognized by the Commission?" is responded
   to positively.

   We are looking forward to receiving information about aviation and
   aerospace activities in your community. We would also appreciate your
   comments about the site.

   Although events and activities listed on this site have been reviewed,
   the Commission cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information. The
   U.S. Centennial of Flight Commission does not endorse any activities,
   products, or services that may be listed on the web sites accessed
   through the calendar unless they are specifically noted as being
   endorsed by the Commission. For more information, please click on
   "Disclaimer" at the bottom of this page.
   Click on the Month to see the upcoming events.


   2002 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

   2003 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

   2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec


   U.S. Centennial of Flight Commission Website
   Curator: The U.S. Centennial of Flight Commission
   Contact Us | Technical Questions
   DISCLAIMER
