http://www.longbeach.gov/disaster/index.htm



                             [USEMAP:topnav.gif]


                [disaster.gif] [special_message_0913012.gif]





   Agencies

   Local
   Long Beach Health Department
   Long Beach Fire Department
   Long Beach Police
   Long Beach Airport
   Long Beach Chapter Red Cross
   Long Beach Press Telegram
   State & County
   California Home Page
   Los Angeles County
   LA County Public Health
   LA County Mental Health
    National
   The White House
   FBI
   US Postal Service
   FEMA
   American Red Cross
    Information
   Google Search
   Iwon Portal
   Yahoo! Search

   FOR THE RESIDENTS OF GREATER LONG BEACH
   Concerns About Anthrax or Other Biological Hazards

   The City of Long Beach Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)
   has been receiving a large number of calls from individuals who believe
   they are ill or have been exposed to possible anthrax, smallpox, or
   other biological hazards. In the event of a discovery of a questionable
   substance, fire and police and public health officials will respond to
   investigate the incident. Please note the following:

   1. At this time, there have been NO true anthrax exposures in
   California, despite numerous threats/hoaxes (over 12 events in Long
   Beach alone over the last 5 days have been hoaxes or overreactions to
   normal substances).

   2. At this time, there have been NO cases of anthrax disease or mail
   identified to be contaminated with biological hazards in California.

   3. There is NO recommendation for medical testing or treatment for
   those exposed to a “non-credible” substance; in the event of a
   documented biological hazard exposure, the DHHS will contact the
   exposed individuals to be tested and to start on antibiotics.

   In the event of an emergency, immediately contact 911. Please note that
   we are entering flu season. If you or members of your family develop
   flu like symptoms, it is much more likely to be the flu or related
   respiratory viruses than anthrax. The general public is at very low
   risk in developing anthrax disease or illness. If you have a condition
   requiring medical attention, please contact your physician. If you do
   not have a physician, please feel free to contact the DHHS at (562)
   570-4000 for a referral. Additional information regarding biological
   hazards may be obtained by visting the DHHS website, at
   www.ci.long-beach.ca.us/health or by calling the DHHS hotline at (562)
   570-4499.


   Further information on this DHHS Press Release available from their
   website at: http://www.ci.long-beach.ca.us/health/pdf/pressanthrax.pdf



                    News Updates
   Special Message from Your City Government
   CDC information on bio-terrorism and anthrax
   CDC advice on handling suspicious mail
   US Postal Service talks about suspicious mail
   FEMA explains terrorism
   FBI and suspicious mail
   US Department of Education and helping children
   Red Cross and Disaster Preparedness
