http://www.bbs.ca.gov/Licstat3.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                BBS Home Page
                Sitemap
                What's New!
                Verify Licenses
                Online Psychotherapy
                About the Board
                Board Meetings
                Consumer Complaint Information
                Licensing

                Examinations

                Licensee Information
                  * Verify Licenses Online
                  * Verifications & Certifications
                  * Licensee / Registrant Statistics
                  * Change of Address or Name Change
                  * Replacement License or Registration
                  * License Renewal
                  * Inactive Licenses and Renewals
                  * Continuing Education
                  * Licensee CE FAQ's
                  * CE Provider FAQ's
                  * MFT & LCSW Supervisor FAQ's
                  * Expired or Cancelled License
                  * Social Security Requirement
                  * Licensees Wanted
                  * Telephone Medical Advice Services (TMAS)

                Continuing Education
                Forms & Publications
                Laws & Regulations
                Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counselors
                Links
                Email the Board


                Board of Behavioral Sciences
                        400 R Street
                         Suite 3150
                       Sacramento, CA
                            95814
                       (916) 445-4933
                     fax (916) 323-0707
                   BBSWebMaster@bbs.ca.gov




   Board of Behavioral Sciences




                                       __________ search
                                  ( )  My CA    (*)  BBS Website



   Continuing Education

   REQUIREMENT

   MFT's and LCSW's whose licenses expire January 31, 1999 or later, must
   complete CE within the preceding two years of the license renewal date.

   COURSEWORK

   MFT's and LCSW's are required to take classes relevant to their scopes
   of practice. Training, education, and coursework by approved providers
   shall incorporate one or more of the following:
    1. aspects of counseling or social work that are fundamental to the
       discipline
    2. aspects of counseling or social work in which significant recent
       developments have occurred
    3. aspects of other disciplines that enhance the understanding or
       practice of counseling or social work

   Additional licensee information is available in CE FAQ's for MFT's and
   LCSW's

   MANDATORY COURSES

   1. HIV/AIDS

   One of the mandatory CE courses is HIV/AIDS. This is a one time
   requirement due with your first renewal. The HIV/AIDS course must be at
   least seven hours in length and cover the characteristics and method of
   assessment and treatment of people living with HIV and AIDS.

   Exception: If you have taken HIV/AIDS courses in the past, or if you
   have equivalent teaching or practice experience, you do not need to
   retake the HIV/AIDS courses. Previous courswork or experience cannot be
   credited towards your CE hours.

   2. Law and Ethics New Info Button

   Any person renewing their license on or after January 1, 2004 is
   required to have completed no less than six hours of continuing
   education in the subject of Law and Ethics for this and each subsequent
   renewal. The six hours shall be considered part of the 36 hour CE
   requirement.

   EXCEPTIONS FROM THE CE REQUIREMENT

   The following is an excerpt from the California Code of Regulations,
   Section 1887.2(c) regarding exceptions from the CE requirement.

   A licensee may submit a written request for exception from the
   continuing education requirement for any of the reasons listed below.
   The board will notify the licensee, within thirty (30) working days
   after receipt of the request for exception, whether the exception was
   granted. If the request for exception is denied, the licensee is
   responsible for completing the full amount of continuing education
   required for license renewal. The board shall grant the exception if
   the licensee can provide evidence, satisfactory to the board, that:

   1. For at least one year during the licensee's previous license renewal
   period the licensee was absent from California due to military service;

   2. For at least one year during the licensee's previous license renewal
   period the licensee resided in another country; or

   3. During the licensee's previous renewal period, the licensee or an
   immediate family member, where the licensee has primary responsibility
   for the care of that family member, was suffering from or suffered a
   disability. A disability is a physical or mental impairment that
   substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of an
   individual. The disability must be verified by a licensed physician or
   psychologist with special expertise in the area of the disability.
   Verification of the disability must include:

   (a) the nature and extent of the disability;

   (b) an explanation of how the disability would hinder the licensee from
   completing the continuing education requirement; and

   (c) the name, title, address, telephone number, professional license or
   certification number, and original signature of the the licensed
   physician or psychologist verifying the disability.

   PROVIDERS

   Licensees must obtain continuing education from Board approved
   providers. A list of board-approved providers is available by request
   from the board office.

   You can also download the list from our website! However, please note
   that the list of CE Providers is subject to change. The list on our
   website is updated on a quarterly basis. Please contact the Board
   office if you have questions regarding a provider.

   Additional provider information is available in CE Provider FAQ's.

   If you would like further information, please contact the CE Program
   technician, at (916) 445-4933 ext. 1008 or send an e-mail to
   BBSWebMaster@bbs.ca.gov. If you are interested in becoming a CE
   provider, you can e-mail our office for an application or download the
   application from our website. If you send an e-mail, please include
   your name and address.

   Updated: January 14, 2002

                             Back to Top of Page
       2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Privacy Policy
                             |Conditions of Use
