http://sfablueprint.ed.gov/pdf/Mb_ch2.pdf

   A. What Is the Modernization Blueprint? SFA has embarked on a major
   transformation of federal student financial aid delivery. SFA is
   pursuing three objectives simultaneously: Customer Satisfaction,
   Employee Satisfaction, and Lower Unit Cost. Every initiative, project,
   and task is evaluated for its contribution to these objectives. The key
   to SFA's modernization is information technology. The Blueprint is not
   a detailed plan because information technology is changing, colleges
   and universities are changing their information technology, and
   financial aid programs themselves are changing. Rather, the Blueprint
   is a plan that changes as new opportunities and new challenges arise.
   The plan has specific initiatives, projects, and activities for the
   next fiscal year. Some of the projects extend over several fiscal
   years. Other projects will begin in the future though the schedule is
   not yet known and others are yet to be defined. The Modernization
   Blueprint describes the business requirements, business and technical
   architecture, and sequencing plan that the Office of Student Financial
   Assistance (SFA) will use to transform the SFA system using leading
   edge technology. The Blueprint is just the first step in an on-going
   process. These elements, shown in Figure II.A-1, provide the focus,
   framework, and actions needed to make the SFA vision a reality. SFA PBO
   Objectives Modernization Goals Modernization Framework SFA Business
   Target Business Target IT Modernization Modernization Requirements
   Architecture Sequencing Plan Architecture Project Initiatives
   Implementation to Date 10044162-017_v2 Figure II.A-1. The Modernization
   Plan July 15, 2000 Page II-1 The Modernization Plan begins with
   business requirements because of the shift in focus from financial aid
   programs to delivery of service to students. These business
   requirements are provided in Chapter III and reflect the process
   changes needed to meet the three objectives. The Business Requirements,
   in turn, lead to Business Architecture and Information Technology
   Architecture described in Chapter IV. This chapter defines a series of
   initiatives and projects, which are described and sequenced in Chapter
   V. This relationship is shown in Figure II.A-1, The Modernization Plan.
   B. Objectives of the Modernization Blueprint This Blueprint has seven
   main objectives. Though these objectives are distinct, all are related
   and together complete the modernization goal. The Blueprint: !
   Summarizes SFA's vision to better serve students and families, and
   revolutionize the way the nation's investment in higher education is
   managed. ! Defines changes to the Business and Technical Architecture
   that will permit SFA to meet its objectives. ! Explains how information
   technology (IT) will enable SFA to provide exceptional service to
   students and families, educational institutions, the financial
   community, and other partners. ! Describes the order in which SFA
   modernization activities will be performed, both to achieve rapid,
   dramatic, early results, such as Web pilots, and to invest in
   infrastructure changes with long-term benefits, such as the creation of
   a master student record. ! Supports management's three-year focus of
   resources on projects that will have the greatest positive effect on
   customer satisfaction. ! Measures SFA's financial performance and
   provides efficient and accurate recording and reporting of information.
   ! Provides an initial framework for establishing performance-based
   requirements to measure customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction
   and unit cost. C. Organization of the Modernization Blueprint The
   Modernization Blueprint Framework (shown in Figure II.C-1) outlines the
   way in which the Modernization Blueprint is organized. The current
   version of the Blueprint includes Levels I and II of the framework.
   This is the Universal Architecture, or target view of the SFA
   modernization plan. Level III, the Subrelease Architecture, is provided
   for a subset of functionality known as Release 1.0. The chapters of the
   Blueprint follow the main structure of the Modernization Framework, and
   the beginning of each chapter indicates the portion of the framework
   described in that chapter. July 15, 2000 Page II-2 The Chapters
   included in the Blueprint are as follows: ! Chapter I: Executive
   Summary  introduces SFA's vision of modernization for student financial
   assistance and the framework for the Modernization Blueprint that will
   enable SFA to achieve this goal. ! Chapter II: The Modernization
   Blueprint Framework  provides an overview of the Modernization
   Blueprint and its components. ! Chapter III: Business Requirements
   describes the SFA business requirements that are allocated to processes
   and subprocesses. These requirements are also presented from the
   external perspective of students, educational institutions and the
   financial community. ! Chapter IV: Business and Technical Architecture
   describes the business and technical architecture that must be in place
   if SFA is to meet its requirements. The business architecture is
   described in process flows (how processes and subprocess interact). The
   technical architecture is described in the following pieces:
   applications, database, data management, and technical infrastructure
   (hardware, software, system services, and networks). The business and
   technical architecture linkages are clearly explained. The architecture
   supports various alternatives and its open system approach allows for
   variability and change. ! Chapter V: Modernization Sequencing Plan
   describes how modernization activities are grouped into initiatives,
   projects, and phases. Also, the chapter explains how these phases of
   projects are sequenced over time. The sequencing plan depicts the first
   three years of a continuing process of modernization. Chapter I *
   Executive Summary Chapter II * The Modernization Blueprint Framework
   Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter V * Business * Business and Tech- *
   Modernization Requirements nical Architecture Sequencing Plan
   Modernization Modernization Modernization Requirements Architecture
   Sequencing Plan Process Technical Business Process Program System Level
   I Requirements Process Systems Flows Sequencing Subprocess Business
   Subprocess Subsystem Level II Flows Subsystems Requirements Sequencing
   Level III* Subrelease Subrelease Subrelease Requirements Design
   Planning Level IV* CI CI CI Development Requirements Design Planning
   10044162-019 * Levels III and IV of the Modernization Blueprint
   framework are not described in this document Figure II.C-1.
   Modernization Blueprint Framework July 15, 2000 Page II-3 This
   Blueprint is written to address both technical and non-technical
   audiences. Individuals who desire a high-level description of the
   Blueprint can turn to Chapters I and II for an overview of SFA's
   Performance Based Organization (PBO) and Modernization Framework. Those
   interested in a more detailed look at SFA's approach to modernization
   can read Chapters III through V, which provide specific and technical
   descriptions of our business requirements, architecture, and sequencing
   plan. The three principal components of the Modernization Framework,
   covered in Chapters II through V, are explained in greater detail in
   Figure II.C-2. July 15, 2000 Page II-4 Modernization Requirements (QG
   WR HQGÃUHTXLUHPHQWVÃDOORFDWHGÃWRÃSURFHVVHV Level I
   5HTXLUHPHQWVÃDOORFDWHGÃWRÃVXESURFHVVHV Level II +LJK
   OHYHOÃSURFHVVHVÃGHILQHGÃDQGÃIXQFWLRQDOO\ÃVHTXHQFHG
   6XESURFHVVHVÃDUHÃGHILQHGÃZLWKLQÃDÃSURFHVV Level III
   'HWDLOHGÃUHTXLUHPHQWVÃIRUÃDÃ6XEUHOHDVHÃRIÃIXQFWLRQDOLW\ Level IV
   &RQILJXUDWLRQÃ,WHPÃ &, ÃUHTXLUHPHQWVÃDOORFDWHGÃWRÃGHYHORSPHQWÃXQLWVÃ
   &RPSXWHUÃ6RIWZDUH 8QLWV ÃÃÃÃÃÃÃÃÃÃ127(Ã ÃÃÃÃÃÃÃÃÃÃ(OHPHQWVÃLQFOXGH
   6XEV\VWHPÃGHVFULSWLRQ Modernization Architecture &RQILJXUDWLRQÃLWHPÃ &,
   LGHQWLILFDWLRQ ,OOXVWUDWHVÃDQGÃGHVFULEHVÃUHODWLRQVKLSV
   ,OOXVWUDWHVÃDQGÃGHVFULEHVÃUHODWLRQVKLSVÃEHWZHHQÃDQG
   ,QWHUIDFHÃLGHQWLILFDWLRQ EHWZHHQÃDQGÃDPRQJÃ3URFHVVÃ$UHDV DPRQJÃ6\VWHPV
   3HUIRUPDQFH Level I 6\VWHPVÃHTXDWHÃWRÃ3URFHVVHVÃ$UHDVÃ RQH RQH
   6HFXULW\ÃLGHQWLILFDWLRQ 'DWDÃDOORFDWLRQÃ DWÃ6XEMHFWÃ$UHD
   ,OOXVWUDWHVÃDQGÃGHVFULEHVÃWKHÃSURFHVVHV
   ,OOXVWUDWHVÃDQGÃGHVFULEHVÃWKHÃSURFHVVHV ÃUHODWLRQVKLSV ÃDQG
   SURFHVVÃIORZVÃEHWZHHQÃDQGÃDPRQJÃ6XEV\VWHPV /HYHO UHODWLRQVKLSV
   ÃDQGÃSURFHVVÃIORZVÃEHWZHHQÃDQG 6XEV\VWHPVÃUHODWHÃWRÃ6XESURFHVVHVÃ PDQ\
   RQH 7HOHFRPPXQLFDWLRQVÃLGHQWLILFDWLRQ Level II DPRQJÃ6XESURFHVVHV
   6HHÃ127(Ã LQÃLQIUDVWUXFWXUH 127(Ã Level III
   3URFHVVÃDQGÃ7HFKQLFDOÃGHILQLWLRQÃRIÃDÃ6XEUHOHDVHÃDQGÃLWVÃHOHPHQWVÃRIÃ&,
   VÃ 6HHÃ127(Ã (OHPHQWVÃLQFOXGH
   2UJDQL]HGÃWRÃUHIOHFWÃ6XEUHOHDVHÃEXLOGÃVWUDWHJ\Ã H J
   ÃFRQWUDFWRUÃGHYHORSPHQW &RQILJXUDWLRQÃ,WHPÃ &, Ã'HILQLWLRQ
   ,QWHUIDFHÃGHILQLWLRQ 3HUIRUPDQFH Level IV
   'HVLJQÃRIÃWKHÃHOHPHQWVÃRIÃ&,VÃ
   LQFOXGHVÃVRIWZDUHÃGHVLJQÃDWÃWKHÃ&68Ã/HYHO 6HHÃ127(Ã 6HFXULW\ÃGHILQLWLRQ
   'DWDÃDOORFDWLRQÃ DWÃ'DWDÃ*URXS /HYHO 6XEUHOHDVHÃ&RQILJXUDWLRQÃ +: 127(Ã
   GHFLVLRQV (OHPHQWVÃLQFOXGH Modernization Sequencing
   7HOHFRPPXQLFDWLRQVÃ'HILQLWLRQÃ LQ &RQILJXUDWLRQÃ,WHPÃ &, LQIUDVWUXFWXUH
   'HVLJQ ,QWHUIDFHÃ'HVLJQ 3HUIRUPDQFH 6HFXULW\Ã'HVLJQ Program System
   Sequencing 'DWDÃDOORFDWLRQÃ DWÃHQWLW\ DWWULEXWH /HYHO +:Ã'HVLJQ
   7HOHFRPPXQLFDWLRQVÃ'HVLJQÃ LQ LQIUDVWUXFWXUH Subsystem Sequencing
   10044162-021 Figure II.C-2. Components of the Framework July 15, 2000
   Page II-5 Consistent with the Modernization Framework, the output from
   each chapter serves as input to subsequent chapters of this Blueprint.
   This concept is shown graphically in Figure II.C-3. The major results
   of each chapter are building blocks that, together, comprise the
   overall SFA Modernization Plan. Business Requirements Chapter III
   Target Business and Technical Architecture Process Process Subprocess
   Subprocess Chapter IV Subprocess Subprocess Determines Current IT
   Architecture Target IT Architecture Compared to Applications
   Applications Data Data Technical Infrastructure Technical
   Infrastructure Drives Projects To Be Sequenced Time Chapter V Product
   10044162-046 Figure II.C-3. Each Chapter of the Blueprint Is a Building
   Block for Developing the Modernization Plan July 15, 2000 Page II-6
   Performance Measurement is critical to SFA's goal of becoming a PBO. It
   establishes performance goals, determines the measures or metrics
   associated with measuring progress against these goals, reports on the
   success in meeting these goals and adjusts or changes policy or program
   directions to better support SFA strategies and objectives. A
   three-tier performance management framework was created to define the
   different levels (e.g., number, type, and complexity) of performance
   measures supporting SFA's core business processes and functions. Goals
   and metrics will be established using a top-down/bottom-up approach
   focusing on these three tiers: Organizational, Management, and
   Process/Activity. In addition, metrics will directly and indirectly
   support the PBO's three core objectives of customer satisfaction,
   employee satisfaction, and unit cost reduction. Metrics will be
   developed to measure the progress of the Modernization project against
   these objectives. Figure II.C-4 represents a possible tool that can be
   used to generate metrics supporting the performance based requirements.
   By populating the matrix with targeted measures and metrics, SFA can
   gauge its success for the major processes and functions of SFA's target
   business model (in accordance with the PBO's three performance
   objectives). While metrics will actually be established in a separate
   strategic initiative (the SFA Performance Plan), it is clear that they
   will be grounded in the processes and functions of the Modernization
   Blueprint. The Modernization Blueprint will also provide the business
   requirements (Chapter III) and the technical infrastructure (Chapter
   IV) to support easy and rapid implementation of the metrics that are
   put in place. r me ction ction loyee ocesses Pr Custo Unit Cost Emp
   Satisfa Satisfa Student Services School Services Financial Partners
   Services Enterprise Services Performance Management 10044162-392 Figure
   II.C-4. Framework for Performance Metrics A performance metrics
   framework will drive SFA towards consistent business results. By
   localizing and internalizing these metrics and measures at each level
   of the July 15, 2000 Page II-7 organization, every individual at SFA
   will understand how his/her effort supports the goals of his/her
   department and the PBO at large. The top-down/bottom-up development of
   a performance measurement process with defined goals, measures, and
   feedback mechanisms is essential to an effective PBO. Once the
   performance measurement process is in place, continuous tracking and
   fine-tuning will be required to ensure SFA's commitment to this effort.
   Initial goals and metrics in support of this effort will be reflected
   in the SFA Performance Plan in September. D. Changes in This Edition of
   the Modernization Blueprint The Business Requirements represent a
   series of decisions being made by the Channel and Enterprise Managers.
   Some initiatives have been added to those in the 1999 Modernization
   Blueprint and some have been consolidated or cancelled. Business
   Requirements One of the four major processes for School Services has
   changed. The business processes are shown in Table II. D-1. Table
   II.D-1. School Services Business Processes 1999 2000 Program
   Eligibility Program Eligibility Program Support Program Support Aid
   Origination and Disbursement Common Origination and Disbursement
   Financial Transactions Financial Transactions Common Origination and
   Disbursement is an initiative to redefine the processes for Pell Grant,
   Direct Loan and campus-based programs, so a school has a single
   simplified process for all three programs. The subprocesses are
   described in Chapter III. Section C under Common Origination and
   Disbursement. These include application, eligibility, determining the
   aid package, communication of disbursement, resolving rejected records,
   pre-disbursement eligibility checks, disbursement, and
   closeout/reconciliation. The Sub-Processes and Business Requirements
   will change to reflect the current view of Common Origination and
   Disbursement. As the community has the opportunity to comment on this
   Business Process, additional changes are likely. Business processes and
   subprocesses for Financial Partners and Enterprise Services remain
   unchanged from the 1999 edition. Business and Technical Architecture
   The Business Architecture, detailed in Chapter IV, is essentially
   unchanged. Three sections have been added to the Technical
   Architecture. These are approaches to July 15, 2000 Page II-8
   configuration management, system integration and testing, enterprise
   deployment. The Aid and Disbursement process is being replaced with the
   Common Origination and Disbursement process. In Chapter IV Section B.5,
   Level II SFA Enterprise Conceptual Data Model  Subject Areas, the Aid
   Awards subject area has been added. The Aid Program services of the
   Level II Conceptual Model were consolidated with others. Consistent
   with discussions with the community, Business Requirement AA-05 Manage
   Aid Package has been changed so the aid award packages rather than the
   details would be made available to SFA from schools. Business
   Requirement OD-16 Manage Lender Disbursement Information has been
   expanded to show more of the participants in the subprocess. In Chapter
   IV Section D, the concept of "middleware" was replaced by Enterprise
   Application Integration (EAI) with a description of how integration of
   the disparate systems and databases will be achieved. Integration
   Architecture Services is shown in several figures following its
   introduction. These figures depict Integration Architecture Services
   with different applications, databases and systems. The Privacy
   Architecture section now contains a security framework to ensure
   information security and to protect the business assets of SFA. The use
   of Enterprise Application Integration for parallel development,
   improved customer service, and improved asset utilization is now
   described in Chapter IV Section H. A description of Enterprise
   Configuration Management has been added in Chapter IV. Section J,
   Enterprise System Integration and Testing in Chapter IV. Section K, and
   Enterprise Deployment in Chapter IV. Section L. Initiatives and
   Projects Within Chapter V, Sequencing Plan, some projects for Student
   Services have been eliminated or consolidated. For the 2000-2001 fiscal
   year, the pilot project to collect financial aid packaging information
   has been eliminated based on community comments. References to the
   single student account have been changed to the student portal-which
   will produce information as a single student account (See Business
   Requirements AW-01, 02, 03 and 05). Borrower Tracking Strategy has been
   consolidated with projects. Debt collection has been deleted from the
   Analysis of Servicing, Business Requirement LR-04. The 2000-2001 NS
   2001-2002 project to Simplify Paper Application Process has
   consolidated with others to achieve earlier results. Similarly Online
   Eligibility AA-02 and AA-03 has been consolidated for the same purpose.
   Many of the Financial Management Architecture Changes in Chapter V
   Section E have been moved to or consolidated with, those of Chapter V.
   Section A through Chapter V. Section D reflecting the need for
   financial transaction processing in those areas. July 15, 2000 Page
   II-9 A summary of the Status of 1999-2000 Projects is given in Table
   II. D-2 Summary of the Status of 1999-2000 Projects. Table II.D-2
   Summary of the Status of 1999-2000 Projects 1999-2000 Projects Status
   (as reported September 30, 1999) Personalized Student Web Page
   "Students.gov" has been subsumed into the future students portals and
   includes three major concepts: * Capability to make on-line changes to
   FAFSA on the web * NSLDS can be directly accessed by students on the
   web * Major upgrade to Direct Loan student Website (March 25, 2000)
   On-Line Help Wizard In Process. This is a feature of the schools portal
   that we are currently building and will become part of the students'
   portal in the future. Complaint Cherishing System Completed Online
   Financial Planning Tools See Enterprise Information System (EIS) Data
   Center Consolidation Near completion Data Center Intranet Completed
   Single Student Account Incorporated into the Common Origination and
   Disbursement initiative All Enrolled Data Agreement with the National
   Student Loan Clearinghouse Digital ID See Students Channel for use with
   student access and Financial Partners for FFELP pilots. Financial
   Management System Under Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Flexiplace
   Upgrade In process, see improved organizational and human performance
   projects RFMS In Place Completed FAFSA Corrections on the Web Many
   available, others in process Direct Loan Exit Counseling Material
   Completed Electronic Billing Infrastructure Incorporated into the
   Direct Loan Reengineering project. Web-Based Technical Assistance Two
   ways this has been done. IFAP on the web and SFA Technology. Direct
   Loan Consolidation In process, see Direct Loan (Certificate/ACH
   Payment) Consolidation Re-engineering Host Computer Access Layer In
   process, see Enterprise Integration July 15, 2000 Page II-10 1999-2000
   Projects Status (as reported September 30, 1999) Access America, Phase
   I See Highway 1 project for student access to personal financial aid
   data. See Access America Website for information for students. See Loan
   Servicing and Loan Consolidation under the Students Channel for
   additional on- line student services. Mentor Program See Enhanced
   Service Delivery for Financial Partners Electronic Yellow Pages for SFA
   In Process. This is an employee focused intranet that currently focuses
   on enhanced customer service. This tool will allow SFA employees to
   forward all calls to the appropriate person. Travel System for SFA
   Employees In Process Intranet for SFA Employees Completed Technical
   Training for SFA See SFA University Employees July 15, 2000 Page II-11
   E. Comments on the Modernization Blueprint During the Comment Period
   for the April 7, 2000 draft, five organizations and three individuals
   commented on the Blueprint. A higher education association provided a
   list of specific questions and suggestions from their members. Many of
   these questions were answered by SFA COO and Channel General Managers
   at the Town Hall Teleconference held April 27, 2000. Separately the
   association commented, "[Steve Hawald's] presentation ... last week in
   Chicago and remarks yesterday [at the Town Hall Teleconference]
   establish a foundation for why the PBO will accomplish its goal of
   modernizing student aid delivery." A financial institution commended
   SFA for the agreement making information from the National Student Loan
   Clearing House (NSLC) available to the community and the Highway 1
   demonstration project. The institution encouraged additional dialog
   with the financial aid community and emphasis on developing standards
   using community processes. It also encouraged broader participation in
   the Integrated Product Teams. SFA has expanded the IPTs to include
   experts from the community. A trade association expressed the concerns
   of their members about the scope of Modernization suggesting more
   modest efforts. The association asked that federal information be made
   available to students on Websites of guaranty agencies, lenders, and
   secondary markets as well as SFA's schools and student portals. Another
   financial institution commented: "It is very clear that you and your
   General Managers and the rest of the PBO staff are activity listening
   to the higher education community and developing strategies that will
   provide long-term benefits to students, schools, and the Department's
   financial partners." The institution asked SFA to "Consider...a more
   de-centralized communications and data access model that places ED in
   partnership with the entities that interact directly with students on a
   day to day basis." An association of state agencies urged additional
   coordination with state aid programs. Two individual comments suggested
   use of standards and the standards-making processes of the
   Postsecondary Education Standards Council (PESC). One individual asked
   about the future of the Virtual Student Account. Speaking at the
   NASSGAP Annual Meeting in Washington, DC, SFA COO Greg Woods described
   SFA's commitment to make federal information available to students from
   state agencies as well as other financial partners. He also said SFA
   would make available state aid data to students if it were available.
   Expansion of the Software Developers' Conference and the forthcoming
   Extranet will provide additional current information on the
   implementation of the Blueprint. Changes to the Blueprint make clear
   members of the financial aid community will participate in the
   Integrated Product Teams. As part of the re-engineering processes, the
   "data dictionary" of current systems is nearing completion and will
   guide integration of these systems. July 15, 2000 Page II-12 SFA
   continues to seek guidance on data exchange among partners. SFA
   continues to support NACHA, monitors standards in the financial
   industry that may be applicable, and encourages standards contributions
   from the community. SFA is coordinating with the Department of Health
   and Human Services and hopes to have health professions loan data
   available for schools to eliminate the need for financial aid
   transcripts for students with health professions loans. SFA is
   reviewing initiatives and projects to better understand how to
   accommodate the suggestions made by NASSGAP for state grant and aid
   programs. Additional information will be provided in the next edition
   of the Blueprint. F. Form of the Modernization Blueprint After
   reviewing the April 7th draft, several commenters suggested changes to
   the format of the next Modernization Blueprint. School representatives
   at the Town Hall Teleconference thought the Executive Summary was
   especially useful and the content and format of it should be retained.
   Since the detail of the Integrated Product Teams will soon be available
   on the Extranet, commenters suggested Chapters 3 and 4 could be omitted
   since the detail should be available for those who have interest or
   need for this information. Similarly they suggested Chapter 5 be
   shortened to a summary of the projects and their status. The
   Modernization Blueprint serves many different purposes for the
   different readers. Some require the detail that is included in Chapters
   3, 4, and 5. Experience with dissemination using the Extranet may
   suggest some changes in future editions of the Modernization Blueprint.
   Others use the detailed information contained in Chapters 3, 4, and 5
   and would need the information available in a similar format. The
   detailed information in these three chapters is also used to
   communicate the specific and detailed plans of SFA to other federal
   departments and agencies. July 15, 2000 Page II-13 This page
   intentionally left blank. July 15, 2000 Page II-14
