http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=11

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   Beyond the café culture and burgeoning business opportunities, this
   citys spectacular setting, perched on protected Puget Sound, is reason
   enough to pack up and head to Seattle. You can be driving in any of the
   distinct neighborhoods when suddenly your windshield is filled with a
   landscape of mountains, water and city skyline painted perfectly
   together. It could be the teeth of the Cascade Range smiling in the
   east over downtown Bellevue, or Mount Rainier filling a huge triangle
   of sky above Lake Washington, or the Olympic Mountains in the sunset
   across Elliott Bay. Here, more than anywhere else in the world, the
   forefronts of technology and urban culture stand arm in arm with
   dramatic coastline and high alpine terrain.

   The climate and style are decidedly comfortable. Seattle actually gets
   less rain per year than New York, Chicago, Miami or Atlanta. Winters
   are mild and summers are perfection, with persistent blue skies and
   temperatures that make air conditioning unnecessary. Snow is rare
   downtown, but a number of impressive ski areas, some less than an hour
   away, receive more of the white stuff than any region on Earth. The
   mild climate also makes activities like golfing, fishing, whale
   watching and hiking possible year round.

   Heading east toward the mountains, youll cross one of two floating
   bridges that span Lake Washington. On its eastern shore, downtown
   Bellevue glistens in the afternoon light. Fertilized by the areas
   prosperity, Bellevue has grown its own cultural identity. In addition
   to an acclaimed Art Museum, Philharmonic and Ballet, the downtown is
   home to the finest doll museum in the world.

   Shopping in Seattle rivals most large cities. Small designer boutiques
   coexist with big retailers like Nordstrom and Bon Marché, and with
   sleek malls like Pacific Place. The famed Pike Place Market is a bazaar
   of fresh seafood, fruit, vegetables, flowers, ethnic eateries and
   specialty shops amid a menagerie of artists and street performers.
   Stroll the adjacent waterfront or relax and watch the ferries glide to
   and from the islands.

   Area restaurants are always innovating to keep pace with the city
   itself. Bars and clubs feature live bands that are constantly renewing
   the citys reputation as an incubator for powerful new sounds. And no
   matter where you go to hang out, the crowd is reliably eclectic and
   unpretentious.

   Groundbreaking attractions are recently completed or underway all over
   the city, from the Mariners new ballpark, to a brand new professional
   football and soccer stadium now under construction. A magnificent new
   symphony hall opened in downtown in 1998. And in the shadow of the
   Space Needle, the monorail runs right through the undulating
   architecture of the Experience Music Project, an interactive journey to
   the soul of rock music. Seattle is also one of the few cities in the
   U.S. to boast a major opera, symphony and ballet company.

   In many ways, Seattle is a futuristic city, for it embodies the idea
   that we can balance economic vitality with environmental sensitivity,
   high technology with simple pleasures and urban convenience with
   outdoor adventure. Come explore the contrasting thrills of this
   metropolitan playground on the edge of the wilderness.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
