http://www.alnd.uscourts.gov/Local/local_rules.htm

                        UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

                        NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA

                                 LOCAL RULES

        (As Effective December 1, 1993 - Current as of January, 2001)

     * LR3.1 Civil Cover Sheet
     * LR5.1 Non-filing of Discovery Materials in Civil Cases
     * LR5.2 Removal of Court Files and Exhibits
     * LR16.1 Scheduling Orders; Alternative Dispute Resolution
     * LR26.1 Disclosures; Discovery Limitations and Commencement; Meeting
       of Parties
     * LR47.1 Juror Interrogation
     * LR54.1 Costs
     * LR58.1 Payment of Judgments
     * LR72.1 References to Magistrate Judges
     * LR72.2 Designation of Magistrate Judge as Special Master
     * LR72.3 Assignment of Additional Duties to Magistrate Judges
     * LR72.4 Additional Powers and Duties of Magistrate Judges
     * LR73.1 Designation of Magistrate Judge to Conduct Misdemeanor
       Trials
     * LR73.2 Conduct of Civil Trials by Magistrate Judges
     * LR81.1 Proceedings to Compel Testimony or Production
     * LR83.1 Attorneys
     * LR83.2 Broadcasting and Photographs

   LR3.1 Civil Cover Sheet. A completed civil cover sheet (Form JS-44c)
   shall be submitted to the Clerk with the initial civil complaint or
   notice of removal filed in this court by a litigant represented by
   counsel.

   LR5.1 Non-filing of Discovery Materials in Civil Cases. Except as
   otherwise directed by a judge of the court:

   (a) Depositions in civil cases shall not be filed with the Clerk except
   as provided in subsections (c) and (e) of this Rule.

   (b) Other discovery materials in civil cases (including
   interrogatories, requests for production, requests for admission, and
   responses thereto, as well as notices of depositions and discovery
   subpoenas) shall be served in accordance with the Federal Rules of
   Civil Procedure, but shall not be filed with the Clerk except as
   provided in subsections (c) and (e) of this Rule.

   (c) Discovery materials in civil cases shall be filed with the Clerk

   (1) when directed by a judge of the court; or

   (2) when and to the extent needed by any party (A) in connection with
   any motion or response thereto or (B) for use at trial. A request to a
   custodian to file discovery materials (when the requesting party does
   not have the original or a copy of the materials so needed) shall
   specify the particular materials (or portions thereof) needed for such
   purposes, and the custodian shall file such materials promptly upon
   receiving the request.

   (d) Counsel noticing a deposition or responsible for serving other
   non-filed discovery materials shall act for the court as custodian of
   such deposition or discovery material; shall preserve the same for
   filing as provided in subsection (c); and shall provide to other
   counsel (and to any parties appearing without counsel) reasonable
   access to such materials and reasonable opportunity to duplicate the
   same at the expense of the copying party. Other persons may, with leave
   of court, obtain from the custodian a copy of non-filed discovery
   material upon payment of the reasonable expense of the copy.

   (e) The provisions of this Rule for non-filing of discovery materials
   and their retention by counsel as custodian do not apply (1) to
   depositions noticed by, or discovery materials to be served by,
   litigants who are not represented by counsel, or (2) in civil actions
   instituted by inmate plaintiffs challenging the conditions of
   confinement. Nor do these provisions preclude the Clerk from receiving
   and docketing discovery materials on file when a case is removed or
   transferred from another court.

   (f) Unless otherwise directed by a judge of the court, depositions and
   other discovery materials, if filed with the Clerk, shall be disposed
   of as provided for exhibits in LR5.2(b) and, if not filed with the
   Clerk, may be disposed of by the custodian 30 days after final
   disposition of the case (including any appeal or the expiration of the
   time for any appeal).

   LR5.2 Removal of Court Files and Exhibits. Except as otherwise directed
   by a judge of the court:

   (a) Court files, and the papers and documents filed therein, may be
   removed from the Clerk's office only by a member of the bar of this
   court in person and only in accordance with the conditions specified in
   a written authorization therefor from a judge of the court.

   (b) After final disposition of a case, exhibits which were received in
   evidence in such case shall be withdrawn from the custody of the Clerk
   upon submission of a detailed receipt therefor by the party who offered
   the same in evidence (or by such other person as may be entitled
   thereto); and exhibits not so withdrawn within thirty (30) days after
   such final disposition may thereafter be destroyed or otherwise
   disposed of by the Clerk.

   LR16.1 Scheduling Orders; Alternative Dispute Resolution.

   (a) Magistrate Judges may enter and modify scheduling orders under Fed.
   R. Civ. P. 16(b) in cases assigned to them by consent under 28 U.S.C.
   636(c) and in cases referred to them by a District Judge, except that a
   Magistrate Judge shall not change a scheduling order entered by a
   District Judge without the express permission of a district judge of
   the court.

   (b) Except as otherwise ordered by a judge of the court in a particular
   case, a scheduling order need not be entered in the categories of cases
   exempted under LR26.1(d)(1) from the requirement of a meeting of the
   parties.

   (c) A judge of the court may, in a scheduling order or by separate
   order, direct that the litigants engage in one or more procedures for
   alternative dispute resolution as authorized and provided in the ADR
   plan adopted by the court.

   LR26.1 Disclosures; Discovery Limitations and Commencement; Meeting of
   Parties.

   (a) Required Disclosures.

   (1) Initial Disclosures. Except to the extent otherwise ordered, a
   party shall, without awaiting a discovery request:

   (A) provide to other parties the name and, if known, the address and
   telephone number of each individual believed by it to have discoverable
   non-privileged personal knowledge concerning any significant factual
   issue specifically raised in the pleadings or identified by the parties
   in their report to the court under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(f), appropriately
   indicating the subjects about which the person has such knowledge;

   (B) make available to other parties for inspection and copying, as
   under Fed. R. Civ. P. 34, all documents, data compilations, and
   tangible things in its possession, custody, or control that may be used
   by it (other than solely for impeachment purposes) to support its
   contentions with respect to any significant factual issue in the case;

   (C) provide to other parties a computation of any category of damages
   claimed by it, making available for inspection and copying, as under
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 34, the documents or other evidentiary material, not
   privileged or protected from disclosure, on which such computation is
   based, including materials bearing on the nature and extent of injuries
   suffered; and

   (D) disclose to other parties the existence and extent of coverage of
   any insurance agreement under which any insurer may be liable to
   satisfy part or all of a judgment which may be entered against it in
   the action or to indemnify or reimburse it for payments made to satisfy
   the judgment.

   Unless otherwise ordered or stipulated, these disclosures shall be made
   at or within 20 days after the meeting of the parties under paragraph
   (d) of this rule. A party shall make its initial disclosures based on
   the information then reasonably available to it and is not excused from
   making its disclosures because it has not completed its investigation
   of the case or because it challenges the sufficiency of another party's
   disclosures or because another party has not made its disclosures.
   These disclosures are subject to a duty of supplementation, as provided
   in Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(e)(1), at least 30 days before the end of period
   allowed for discovery.

   Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a particular case, the
   requirements of this paragraph (a)(1) do not apply in the categories of
   cases exempted under paragraph (d)(1) of this rule from the requirement
   of a meeting of litigants or in cases brought as class actions under
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 23, and the parties may, by written stipulation, agree
   not to make the initial or supplemental disclosures or to modify the
   scope or timing of the disclosures.

   (2) Expert Testimony. Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a
   particular case, the requirements of Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2), relating
   to disclosure of expert testimony, do not apply in cases initially
   filed in, removed to, or transferred to this court before December 1,
   1993, and by written stipulation the parties may agree to other times
   for providing information about expert testimony, to exempt one or more
   experts from the requirement of a written report, or to modify the
   information to be contained in the written reports. Unless otherwise
   ordered by the court in a particular case, the plaintiff shall make its
   disclosures under Rule 26(a)(2) at least 90 days before the date the
   case is set for trial or to be ready for trial and the defendant shall
   make its disclosures under Rule 26(a)(2) within 30 days after the
   plaintiff's disclosures.

   (3) Pretrial Disclosures. Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a
   particular case, the requirements of Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(3), relating
   to final pretrial disclosure, do not apply in cases set for trial
   before February 1, 1994.

   (4) Filing. Except as otherwise ordered by the court in a particular
   case, disclosures under paragraph (a)(3) of this rule shall be filed
   with the court promptly after being served, but disclosures under
   paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this rule shall be filed only when, and
   to the extent, ordered by the court or needed by a party in connection
   with a motion (or response thereto) or for use at trial.

   (b) Limits on Formal Discovery.

   (1) Formal discovery under Fed. R. Civ. P. 30-36 is permissible in the
   following types of cases -- if initially filed in, removed to, or
   transferred to this court after December 1, 1993 -- only with prior
   approval of a judge of the court or upon the written stipulation of the
   parties:

   Bankruptcy Appeals and Withdrawals (NOS: 422-23)

   Condemnation Actions (NOS: 210)

   Deportation Actions (NOS: 460)

   Equal Access to Justice -- Fee Award Appeals (NOS: 900)

   Forfeiture and statutory penalty actions (NOS: 610-690)

   Freedom of Information actions (NOS: 895)

   Government collection actions (NOS: 151-153)

   Judgments -- actions to enforce or register (NOS: 150)

   Prisoner actions to vacate sentence, for habeas corpus, or for mandamus
   (NOS: 510-40)

   Selective Service actions (NOS: 810)

   Social Security reviews (NOS: 861-65)

   Summons/subpoenas -- proceedings to enforce/contest government summons
   and private party depositions

   Third-party IRS tax actions (NOS: 871)

   (2) Unless a different number is fixed by court order or by the
   parties' stipulation, the maximum number of interrogatories (including
   all discrete subparts) that one party may serve on another party is 25,
   and the maximum number of depositions (whether on oral examination or
   written questions) that may be taken by the plaintiff(s), by the
   defendant(s), or by the third-party defendant(s) is 10. Absent a court
   order, however, there is no limitation on the number of interrogatories
   or depositions in:

   (A) cases brought as class actions under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23;

   (B) cases filed in, removed to, or transferred to this court before
   December 1, 1993; or

   (C) cases transferred to this court under 28 U.S.C. 1407, or joined
   with cases so transferred.

   (c) Commencement of Discovery. Except as otherwise stipulated in
   writing by the parties or ordered by the court in a particular case:

   (1) formal discovery under Fed. R. Civ. P. 30, 31, 33, and 36 may not
   be commenced before the meeting of the parties under Fed. R. Civ. P.
   26(f) except in the following cases:

   (A) cases exempted under paragraph (d)(1) from the requirement of a
   meeting of the parties;

   (B) cases in which a temporary restraining order or preliminary
   injunction is sought; and

   (C) cases in which discovery is needed to resolve a preliminary motion
   such as an objection to personal jurisdiction or venue; and

   (2) a request for production under Fed. R. Civ. P. 34 may not be
   commenced before the requesting party and the party to whom the request
   is directed have appeared in the case.

   (d) Meeting of Parties. Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a
   particular case, the provisions of Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(f), requiring a
   meeting of and report from the parties, apply to all civil actions in
   this court, subject to the following modifications:

   (1) Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a particular case, the
   requirement of a meeting and report does not apply in:

   (A) cases filed in, removed to, or transferred to this court before
   December 1, 1993;

   (B) cases in which, under paragraph (b)(1) of this rule, discovery is
   permitted only with prior approval of a judge of the court;

   (C) cases instituted pro se by prisoners;

   (D) cases consolidated with a case in which the parties have met as
   provided in this paragraph (d) or in which a scheduling order under
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 16(b) has been entered; and

   (E) cases transferred to this court under 28 U.S.C. 1407 or
   consolidated with cases so transferred, and cases subject to potential
   transfer to another court under 28 U.S.C. 1407 pursuant to a motion
   pending before the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation or a
   conditional transfer order entered by that Panel.

   (2) Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a particular case, the
   meeting must be held within 45 days from the first appearance of a
   defendant and at least 14 days before any scheduling conference set by
   the court under Fed. R. Civ. P. 16(b).

   (3) Unless otherwise ordered by the court in a particular case, the
   parties may, if the offices of their principal counsel are not within
   100 miles of one another, agree to conduct the meeting by telephone.

   (4) The report by the parties to the court shall substantially conform
   to the format indicated in Form 35 contained in the Appendix to the
   Fed. R. Civ. P., also including, however, a statement as to when the
   information specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this rule was or will be
   provided.

   LR47.1 Juror Interrogation. Communications with a juror concerning a
   case on which such person has served as a juror or alternate juror
   shall not, without prior express approval of a judge of this court, be
   initiated by any attorney, party, or representative of either, prior to
   the day following such person's release from jury service for such term
   of court.

   LR54.1 Costs. Requests for taxation of costs (other than attorneys'
   fees) under Fed. R. Civ. P. 54(d) shall be filed with the Clerk within
   20 days after entry of judgment.

   LR58.1 Payment of Judgments. Except as otherwise directed by a judge of
   the court, there shall be added to each money judgment recovered in
   this court, including those entered on the minutes by the Clerk upon
   the verdict of a jury, the following language (or the equivalent
   thereof as adapted to the nature of the judgment):

   "It is further ORDERED by the court that payment of the proceeds of the
   judgment and costs herein may be made directly to the attorneys of
   record for the plaintiff and that, upon receipt thereof, such attorneys
   will satisfy said judgment on the records of this court."

   LR72.1 References to Magistrate Judges.

   (a) Nondispositive Matters. A magistrate judge of the court may be
   designated to hear and determine any pretrial matter pending before the
   court other than matters specified in subsection (b). Pretrial matters
   which may be referred to a magistrate judge under this subsection shall
   include (but not be limited to) the following:

   (1) Criminal Proceedings.

   (A) General supervision of the criminal calendar, including calendar
   calls and motions to expedite or postpone the trial of cases.

   (B) Hearing and deciding procedural and discovery motions.

   (C) Hearing and deciding motions by the government to dismiss an
   indictment or information without prejudice to further proceedings, and
   any other motion or pretrial matter which is not specifically
   enumerated as an exception in 28 U.S.C. 636(b)(1)(A).

   (D) Issuance of subpoenas, writs of habeas corpus ad testificandum or
   ad prosequendum, or other orders necessary to obtain the presence of
   parties or witnesses or evidence needed for court proceedings.

   (E) Conduct of pretrial conferences, omnibus hearings, and related
   proceedings.

   (F) Conduct of initial appearances and arraignments, acceptance of not
   guilty pleas, and the ordering of a presentence report on a defendant
   who consents thereto or signifies the desire to plead guilty.

   (2) Civil Proceedings.

   (A) General supervision of the civil calendar, including the handling
   of calendar calls and motions to expedite or postpone the trial of
   cases.

   (B) Hearing and determining pretrial procedural and discovery motions,
   and other motions or pretrial matters which are not specifically
   enumerated as an exception in 28 U.S.C. 636(b)(1)(A).

   (C) Issuance of subpoenas, writs of habeas corpus ad testificandum or
   ad prosequendum, or other orders necessary to obtain the presence of
   parties or witnesses or evidence needed for court proceedings.

   (D) Issuance of scheduling orders as provided Fed. R. Civ. P. 16(b),
   except that a magistrate judge shall not change any scheduling order
   entered by a district judge without the express permission of a
   district judge of the court.

   (E) Conduct of preliminary and final pretrial conferences, status
   calls, and settlement conferences, including the preparation of a
   pretrial order following the conclusion of the final pretrial
   conference.

   Decisions of the magistrate judge under this subsection shall be final,
   subject only to a right of review by the district judge in accord with
   the provisions of Fed. R. Civ. P. 72(a).

   (b) Dispositive Matters. A magistrate judge may be designated to review
   and consider, to conduct hearings (including evidentiary hearings), and
   to submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
   recommendations for the disposition by the district judge of any of the
   following dispositive matters:

   (1) Criminal Proceedings.

   (A) Motions to dismiss or quash an indictment or information made by
   the defendant in a criminal case.

   (B) Motions to suppress evidence or for the return of seized property.

   (C) Applications to revoke probation or supervised release (including
   the conduct of the "final" revocation hearing).

   (2) Judicial Review of Administrative Proceedings.

   (A) Decisions regarding benefits under the Social Security Act, the
   "Black Lung" benefits laws, and other similar statutes.

   (B) Administrative awards or denials of licenses or similar privileges.

   (C) Decisions by the Civil Service Commission or other appropriate
   agency in federal employee matters.

   (3) Prisoner Petitions.

   (A) Habeas corpus petitions filed by state prisoners under 28 U.S.C.
   2254 or by federal prisoners under 28 U.S.C. 2241. In connection with
   such matters, the magistrate judge is expressly authorized to issue
   orders to show cause and other necessary orders or writs to obtain a
   complete record.

   (B) Motions filed by federal prisoners for the correction or reduction
   of sentence under Fed. R. Crim. P. 35 or to vacate a conviction or
   sentence under 28 U.S.C. 2255.

   (C) Petitions for writs of error coram nobis, mandamus, prohibition,
   and other relief under the All Writs Act (28 U.S.C. 1651) by federal
   prisoners or persons convicted of federal offenses.

   (D) Original complaints by prisoners or detainees for the deprivation
   of constitutional rights. In connection with such matters, the
   magistrate judge is expressly authorized to take on-site depositions;
   gather evidence; conduct pretrial conferences; serve as a mediator at
   the holding facility; and conduct periodic reviews to insure compliance
   with previous orders of the court regarding conditions of confinement.
   The magistrate judge is expressly authorized to conduct evidentiary
   hearings, including hearings on the ultimate issue of liability and
   relief.

   (4) Other Civil Proceedings.

   (A) Motions for injunctive relief (temporary restraining orders and
   preliminary injunctions).

   (B) Motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim upon which relief
   may be granted.

   (C) Motions to involuntarily dismiss an action (and the review of
   default judgments).

   (D) Motions to dismiss or to permit the maintenance of a class action.

   (E) Motions for judgment on the pleadings or for summary judgment.

   The procedure to be followed upon a reference under this subsection (b)
   shall be as specified in Fed. R. Civ. P. 72(b).

   (c) Order of Reference. Every reference of a matter to a magistrate
   judge under this rule, if not pursuant to a general order of reference
   with regard to a particular class or category of matters or cases,
   shall be by order signed by a district judge. The clerk shall serve
   notice of each reference made under this rule, other than those made by
   general order, upon all parties to the action.

   LR72.2 Designation of Magistrate Judge as Special Master. A magistrate
   judge may by special order be designated to serve as a special master
   pursuant to the applicable provisions of law and Fed. R. Civ. P. 53 in
   the following circumstances:

   (a) In cases brought under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 if a district
   judge has not scheduled the case for trial within 120 days after issue
   has been joined, as authorized under 42 U.S.C. 2000e-5(f)(5).

   (b) In patent, antitrust, and other complex cases where there are a
   great many issues, claims, and documents, or in multiple disaster and
   class action cases where there are numerous claimants and diverse
   claims.

   (c) To determine compensation and assess damages in land condemnation
   cases as a Commissioner under Fed. R. Civ. P. 71A(h).

   (d) For the assessment of damages, such as in admiralty cases, and for
   the determination of attorney's fees under LR54.1.

   (e) When otherwise permitted by Fed. R. Civ. P. 53.

   LR72.3 Assignment of Additional Duties to Magistrate Judges. A
   magistrate judge may be assigned such additional duties as are not
   inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United States. A
   formal order of reference shall not be necessary to implement an
   assignment of any of the duties hereafter enumerated. Such additional
   duties may include (but shall not be limited to) the following:

   (a) Receipt of grand jury returns, in accordance with Fed. R. Crim. P.
   6(f).

   (b) Exoneration or forfeiture of bonds.

   (c) Service as a member of the court's Speedy Trial Act Planning Group,
   including service as the reporter.

   (d) Review of petitions in civil commitment proceedings under Title III
   of the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act.

   (e) Disposition of civil violations under the Federal Boat Safety Act.

   (f) With consent of all the parties, the selection of a jury for the
   trial of a civil case.

   (g) With consent of all the parties, acceptance of petit jury verdicts
   in civil cases.

   (h) Supervision of proceedings on requests for letters rogatory in
   civil and criminal cases, provided that a special designation has been
   made by the district court as required under 28 U.S.C. 1782(a).

   (i) Examining judgment debtors under Fed. R. Civ. P. 69.

   (j) Review of default judgments and conduct of inquests on damages in
   cases involving default judgments.

   (k) Coordination of the court's efforts in such fields as the
   promulgation of local rules and procedures and the administration of
   the forfeiture of collateral system.

   (l) Conduct of proceedings under the Federal Debt Collection Procedures
   Act of 1990.

   LR72.4 Additional Powers and Duties of Magistrate Judges. Each
   magistrate judge serving in the court shall have within the territorial
   jurisdiction prescribed by his or her appointment all powers and duties
   conferred or imposed upon United States magistrate judges by law or by
   the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Such duties shall include (but
   not be limited to) the following:

   (a) Accepting complaints, finding probable cause and issuing
   appropriate arrest warrants or summonses for the named defendants under
   Fed. R. Crim. P. 4.

   (b) Issuance of search warrants upon a determination that probable
   cause for the warrants exists under Fed. R. Crim. P. 41.

   (c) Conduct of initial appearance proceedings for defendants, informing
   them of their rights, admitting them to bail, and imposing conditions
   of release under Fed. R. Crim. P. 5 and 18 U.S.C. 3146, and conduct of
   preliminary hearings under Fed. R. Crim. P. 32.1 when a person is in
   custody for violating a condition of probation or supervised release.

   (d) Appointment of attorneys for indigent defendants, together with the
   administration of the court's Criminal Justice Act Plan, the
   maintenance of a register of eligible attorneys, and the approval of
   attorneys' expense vouchers in appropriate cases.

   (e) Conduct of full preliminary examinations under Fed. R. Crim. P. 5.1
   and 18 U.S.C. 3060.

   (f) Conduct of removal hearings for defendants charged in other
   districts and issuance of warrants of removal under Fed. R. Crim. P.
   40.

   (g) Administering oaths and taking bail, acknowledgements, affidavits,
   and depositions.

   (h) Setting bail for material witnesses.

   (i) Upon special designation by the district court, the conduct of
   extradition proceedings.

   (j) Holding to security of the peace and for good behavior under 18
   U.S.C. 3043.

   (k) Discharge of indigent prisoners or persons imprisoned for debt
   under process of execution issued by a federal court under 18 U.S.C.
   3569 and 28 U.S.C. 2007.

   (l) Issuance of an attachment or order to enforce obedience to an
   Internal Revenue Service summons to produce records or give testimony
   under 26 U.S.C. 7604(b).

   (m) Issuance of administrative inspection warrants.

   (n) Instituting proceedings against persons violating certain civil
   rights statutes under 42 U.S.C. 1987.

   (o) Settling or certifying the nonpayment of seamen's wages under 46
   U.S.C. 603.

   (p) Enforcing awards of foreign consuls in differences between captains
   and crews of vessels of the consul's nation under 22 U.S.C. 258(a).

   (q) Issuance of writs authorizing levy, entry, search, and seizure by
   the Internal Revenue Service requested pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6331 upon
   a determination of probable cause.

   (r) Issuance of warrants of seizure requested by the government
   pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 981(b) and 21 U.S.C. 881(b).

   (s) Verifying consents by offenders to transfer from the United States
   pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4107, and, when so assigned, performing
   (including performance beyond the territorial limits of the United
   States) the verification required by 18 U.S.C. 4108 and the appointment
   of counsel authorized by 18 U.S.C. 4109.

   LR73.1 Designation of Magistrate Judge to Conduct Misdemeanor Trials.

   (a) Jurisdiction. A district judge may designate any full-time
   magistrate judge to try persons accused of, and to sentence persons
   convicted of, misdemeanors and other petty offenses committed within
   this district in accord with 18 U.S.C. 3401.

   (b) Procedures. Preliminary proceedings, trials, and appeals of
   misdemeanors and other petty offenses shall be governed by the
   provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3401 and 3402 and Fed. R. Crim. P. 58.

   (c) Appeal from Magistrate Judge. On an appeal from a decision, order,
   judgment, or sentence by a magistrate judge:

   (1) The clerk shall require a filing fee of $25.00 to be paid at the
   time the notice of appeal is filed unless a magistrate judge or
   district judge permits the defendant to file and proceed on appeal as a
   pauper.

   (2) The record on appeal shall be as defined in Fed. R. Crim. P.
   58(g)(2)(C). Promptly after a statement of appeal is filed, the clerk
   shall forward the record to the district judge, and notify the parties.
   A copy of the record shall be furnished to the defendant only if
   requested and, unless the defendant is allowed to proceed as a pauper,
   only after making payment therefor.

   (3) The appellant shall served and file a brief within 30 days after
   notice that the record has been forwarded to the district judge; any
   brief by the appellee shall be served and filed within 30 days after
   service of the appellant's brief; and any reply brief by the appellant
   shall be served and filed within 14 days after service of the
   appellee's brief. If the appellant fails to file its initial brief
   within the time provided in this subsection, the appeal may be
   dismissed by the court on its own initiative or on motion by the
   appellee.

   LR73.2 Conduct of Civil Trials by Magistrate Judges. Subject to the
   limitations hereinafter stated, and upon the consent of the parties, a
   full-time magistrate judge who has been specially designated to
   exercise such jurisdiction may conduct any or all proceedings in a
   civil case, including the conduct of jury or nonjury trials and the
   entry of a final judgment, as provided by 28 U.S.C. 636(c).

   (a) At the time a civil case is filed, the clerk shall provide to the
   plaintiff (with extra copies for service on the defendants with the
   complaint) written notice of the availability of a magistrate judge to
   exercise the court's jurisdiction with respect to such case, including
   a form on which a party may signify its consent to this jurisdiction.
   In removed cases, this notice shall be provided to the removing party,
   with copies for service on other parties. The notice shall be in a form
   approved by the court and shall also advise the parties of the
   opportunity to consent that any appeals be taken to the district court.

   (b) Each party who consents to exercise of the court's jurisdiction by
   a magistrate judge shall indicate that consent by filing with the clerk
   the appropriate form. Parties shall not communicate their consent, or
   withholding of consent, directly to a district judge or a magistrate
   judge. Consent to the exercise of the court's jurisdiction by a
   magistrate judge does not waive a party's objection to any jurisdiction
   being exercised by the court over it.

   (c) If, within 90 days after a civil case is filed or removed, all
   parties have submitted to the clerk their consent to the exercise of
   jurisdiction by a magistrate judge, their consents will be filed and
   docketed and the clerk will reassign the case to a magistrate judge
   selected at random from among the available magistrate judges, giving
   notice thereof to the affected judges and to the parties. After that
   time, a case may be reassigned under this rule to a magistrate judge
   only with the express permission of the district judge to whom the case
   is assigned.

   (d) Appeals from a judgment entered by a magistrate judge shall be to
   the court of appeals unless the parties have agreed, pursuant to 28
   U.S.C. 636(c)(4) and Fed. R. Civ. P. 73(d), that appeals are to be made
   to a district judge, in which event the provisions of Fed. R. Civ. P.
   74 and 75 shall govern such appeals.

   (e) If any party withholds its consent to the exercise of jurisdiction
   by a magistrate judge, the identity of the parties who consented or of
   those who withheld their consent shall not be disclosed to the district
   judge or to a magistrate judge. A district judge or magistrate judge
   may thereafter remind the parties of the availability of a magistrate
   judge, but, in so doing, shall also advise them that they are free to
   withhold their consent without adverse substantive consequences.

   (f) A district judge may, for good cause on his or her own initiative
   or under extraordinary circumstances shown by any party, vacate the
   assignment of a case to a magistrate judge.

   (g) Depending on workloads of the magistrate judges, the court may from
   time to time suspend the operation of this rule or temporarily withdraw
   the designation of a magistrate judge as available to exercise the
   jurisdiction of the court.

   LR81.1 Proceedings to Compel Testimony or Production. Proceedings to
   compel the giving of testimony or the production of documents in
   accordance with a subpoena issued by an officer or agency of the United
   States under any statute of the United States shall be conducted in the
   following manner except to the extent otherwise required by statute or,
   for good cause shown, ordered by a judge of the court:

   (a) The pleading filed to commence such proceeding, however labeled,
   shall be treated as a petition for an order to show cause, if any there
   be, why the relief requested therein should not be granted. Affidavits
   under Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(e) may be attached to the petition. A copy of
   the petition and any attachments thereto, together with a copy of the
   show cause order, shall be served on the defendant(s) in accordance
   with Fed. R. Civ. P. 4.

   (b) Within the time specified in the show cause order (as may be
   extended by the court), each defendant shall serve an answer to the
   petition which shall consolidate all defensive matters, in law or in
   fact, including those which may be made by motion. Affidavits under
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(e) may be attached to the answer.

   (c) Upon filing of the answer(s), the case shall be deemed (without
   necessity for separate motions) to be tendered to the court on
   cross-motions for judgment on the pleadings or for summary judgment
   under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(c) and 56. If not disposed of under Rule 12(c)
   or 56, the case shall be expeditiously set for hearing.

   (d) Except as otherwise permitted by a judge of the court for good
   cause shown, Fed. R. Civ. P. 26-37 are inapplicable to such
   proceedings.

   LR83.1 Attorneys.

   (a) Bar of Court. The bar of this court consists of those persons
   previously admitted to (and not removed from) the bar of this court and
   of those persons who hereafter are admitted under this Rule.

   (1) Any attorney who is admitted to practice before the Supreme Court
   of Alabama and who resides in Alabama or regularly engages in the
   practice of law in Alabama may be admitted to the bar of this court
   upon the submission of an application, payment of the prescribed fee,
   and

   (A) the order of a judge of this court (on oral or written motion by a
   member of the bar of this court or on the court's own motion), and the
   administering of the prescribed oath before any judge (or other
   designee) of this court; or

   (B) the filing of a certificate of good standing from the Clerk of the
   United States District Court located within the State of Alabama for
   the district in which the applicant resides or regularly practices law.

   (2) By January 1, 1992 (and annually thereafter by the 1st day of
   January of each succeeding year), all attorneys whose status as members
   of the bar of this court shall not have been renewed during the
   preceding five years shall submit to the Clerk a statement respecting
   their eligibility to remain as members of the bar in good standing,
   together with the renewal fee prescribed by the court. Attorneys
   failing to submit such statement and renewal fee within 60 days from
   the date due shall cease to be members in good standing until such
   statement and renewal fee are submitted.

   (b) Appearance Pro Hac Vice. Any attorney who is not a member of the
   bar of this court but who is admitted to practice before the United
   States District Court for the district in which (or before the highest
   court in the state in which) such person resides or regularly practices
   law, may, upon request and payment of the prescribed fee (unless
   payment is waived by special order of the court), be allowed to appear
   in a case pro hac vice by an order of any district judge or bankruptcy
   judge of this court. Any such attorney who appears as counsel by filing
   any pleading or paper in any case pending in this court shall within
   ten days thereafter apply to appear pro hac vice as set out herein. An
   attorney permitted to appear under this subsection is deemed to have
   conferred disciplinary jurisdiction upon this court for any alleged
   misconduct arising in the course of, or in preparation for, proceedings
   in the case; and for purposes of subsection (h) of this Rule the
   attorney shall be treated as if a member of the bar of this court with
   respect to acts and conduct in connection with such case.

   (c) Appearance on behalf of United States. Any attorney representing
   the United States or any agency thereof, having the authority of the
   government to appear as its counsel, may appear specially and be heard
   in any case in which the government or such agency is a party, without
   formal or general admission. An attorney permitted to appear under this
   subsection is deemed to have conferred disciplinary jurisdiction upon
   this court for any alleged misconduct arising in the course of, or in
   preparation for, proceedings in the case, and for purposes of
   subsection (h) of this Rule the attorney shall be treated as if a
   member of the bar of this court with respect to acts and conduct in
   connection with such case.

   (d) By Whom Parties May Appear. In all cases filed in or removed to
   this court, a party may appear and be represented of record only by a
   member of the bar of this court, by an attorney permitted to appear
   pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this Rule, or, if an individual,
   by himself or herself pro se.

   (e) Continuing Representation. Unless disbarred or suspended, attorneys
   shall be held at all times to represent the parties for whom they
   appear of record in the first instance until, after formal motion and
   notice to such parties and to opposing counsel, they are permitted by
   order of court to withdraw from such representation. The court may,
   however, without formal motion and notice, permit withdrawal for good
   cause shown or if other counsel have entered an appearance for the
   party.

   (f) Standards for Professional Conduct; Obligations. Each attorney who
   is admitted to the bar of this court or who appears in this court
   pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this Rule is required to be
   familiar with, and shall be governed by, the Local Rules of this court
   and, to the extent not inconsistent with the preceding, the Alabama
   Rules of Professional Conduct adopted by the Alabama Supreme Court and,
   to the extent not inconsistent with the preceding, the American Bar
   Association Model Rules of Professional Conduct, except Rule 3.8(f)
   thereof. Acts and omissions by any such attorney which violate such
   standards, individually or in concert with any other persons, shall
   constitute misconduct, whether or not occurring in the course of an
   attorney-client relationship, and shall be grounds for discipline, as
   shall the commission by an attorney of any serious crime. Discipline
   under this Rule may consist of disbarment, suspension, censure,
   reprimand, removal from a particular case, ineligibility for
   appointment as court-appointed counsel, ineligibility to appear under
   subsections (b) and (c), monetary sanctions, or any other sanction the
   court may deem appropriate.

   An attorney admitted to the bar of this court, or who appears in this
   court pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this Rule, shall promptly
   notify the Clerk of this court upon (i) being disbarred, suspended, or
   publicly disciplined by another court or disciplinary authority, (ii)
   resigning from another bar while an investigation into allegations of
   misconduct is pending, or (iii) being convicted by any court of any
   serious crime.

   (g) Grievance Committee. The court shall from time to time appoint
   members of the bar of the court to its "Grievance Committee." The court
   shall designate one of the members to serve as Chairman. Any three or
   more members of the committee may act on behalf of the committee when
   so designated by the Chairman.

   (1) Purpose and Function. The purpose and function of the Grievance
   Committee is to conduct, upon referral by the court or a judge thereof,
   inquiries and investigations with respect to alleged misconduct or
   commission of a serious crime by an attorney or with respect to
   reinstatement of an attorney; to conduct and preside over disciplinary
   hearings; to consider, upon referral by the court or a judge thereof,
   matters relating to possible incompetency, incapacity, or impairment of
   an attorney; and to submit written findings and recommendations to the
   court or referring judge for appropriate action. The Committee shall
   not initiate an investigation or conduct hearings without prior
   referral by the court or a judge thereof.

   (2) Powers of Committee. In addition to powers described elsewhere in
   this Rule, the Grievance Committee shall be vested with such powers as
   are necessary to conduct the proper and expeditious disposition of any
   matter referred to it, including the power to compel the attendance of
   witnesses, to take or cause to be taken the deposition of any
   witnesses, and to order the production of books, records, or other
   documentary evidence. The Chairman or, in the Chairman's absence, any
   member of the Committee has the power to administer oaths and
   affirmations to witnesses, which oath or affirmation shall include the
   obligation not to disclose the existence of the proceedings or the
   identity of the attorney involved unless and until such proceedings are
   authorized by the court to be made public.

   (3) Special Counsel. The Grievance Committee may request the court to
   appoint special counsel to investigate or assist in any investigation
   or in the conduct of any hearing authorized under this Rule.

   (4) Immunities. The members of the Grievance Committee and any person
   acting as special counsel for the Committee under paragraph (3) shall,
   with respect to their actions in such capacities, be considered as
   representatives of, and acting under the powers and immunities of, the
   court and shall enjoy all such immunities while acting in good faith
   and in their official capacities.

   (5) Confidentiality. All complaints, referrals, orders, and proceedings
   before, and reports, of the Grievance Committee shall be confidential
   except as provided in this Rule or until otherwise directed by the
   court.

   (h) Discipline.

   (1) Misconduct. The court or a judge thereof may refer to the Grievance
   Committee any accusation or evidence of misconduct by a member of the
   bar of this court for such investigation, hearing, and report as may be
   appropriate.

   (A) Any matter referred to the Committee may, in its discretion, be
   further referred by it to an appropriate committee or official of the
   Alabama State Bar either for preliminary investigation or for conduct
   of such proceedings as may be appropriate.

   (B) If after its preliminary investigation and review the Committee
   concludes that a formal disciplinary proceeding should not be initiated
   against an attorney because of the insufficiency of evidence, because
   of the insubstantial nature of the conduct involved, because of the
   pendency of another proceeding against the attorney the disposition of
   which should be awaited before further action is considered, because of
   other disciplinary or corrective action already taken, or for any other
   valid reason, the Committee shall file with the court a recommendation
   for disposition of the matter, whether by dismissal, deferral, or other
   action, setting forth the reasons therefor. If the matter is dismissed
   or deferred, the attorney who is the subject of the investigation need
   not be notified that a complaint has been submitted or of its ultimate
   disposition.

   (C) If from its preliminary investigation the Committee concludes that
   a formal proceeding should be initiated, the Committee shall file with
   the court a written report of its investigation, together with a
   proposed order for entry by a judge of the court setting forth the
   particular conduct on the basis of which the attorney is believed to be
   subject to discipline and requiring the attorney to show cause to the
   Committee in writing within 20 days after service of that order why he
   or she should not be disciplined. A copy of the report shall be served
   on the attorney along with the show cause order. If requested by the
   attorney in a timely response, the matter shall, upon at least 10 days'
   notice, be set for hearing before the Committee, at which time the
   attorney shall have the right to be present at the taking of testimony,
   to present witnesses and other evidence, to cross examine witnesses,
   and to be represented by counsel. All testimony presented before the
   Committee shall be transcribed, and the accused attorney shall be
   entitled to a copy thereof at his or her own cost. Proceedings before
   the Committee shall be guided by the spirit of the Federal Rules of
   Evidence, but the Committee may receive and consider hearsay evidence
   that it finds to be reliable and trustworthy. Unless the attorney
   asserts a privilege or right properly available under applicable
   federal or state law, the attorney may be called as a witness by the
   Committee to make specific and complete disclosure of all matters
   material to the charge of misconduct. If the attorney does not respond
   to the show cause order, does not timely request a hearing, or agrees
   to the matters asserted, the Committee may take summary action,
   reporting its recommendations forthwith to the court.

   (D) Upon completion of a disciplinary proceeding the Committee shall
   make a full written report to the court, containing its findings of
   fact as to the charges, its recommendations as to whether or not the
   attorney should be found guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary
   action, and its recommendations as to any disciplinary measures that
   should be imposed by the court. The report shall be accompanied by a
   transcript of any proceedings before the Committee, all pleadings, and
   all evidentiary exhibits. A copy of the report shall also be furnished
   to the attorney.

   (E) Upon receiving a report by the Committee finding that misconduct
   occurred and recommending disciplinary action, the court shall issue an
   order requiring the attorney to show cause in writing why the
   Committee's recommendation should not be adopted by the court. After
   considering the attorney's response, the court, by a majority vote of
   the active judges thereof, may adopt, modify, or reject the Committee's
   findings with respect to misconduct, and may impose the sanctions
   recommended by the Committee or other penalties deemed appropriate
   under the circumstances.

   (F) In lieu of, or in addition to, referring a matter involving
   possible misconduct to the Grievance Committee, the court or a judge
   thereof may refer such matter to any other court or to any professional
   disciplinary agency for such investigation and action as that court or
   agency may deem appropriate.

   (2) Commission of Serious Crime.

   (A) If a member of the bar of this court is convicted in any court of
   any serious crime, whether resulting from a plea of guilty, nolo
   contendere, verdict after trial, or otherwise, and regardless of the
   pendency of any appeal, the court shall enter an order directing that
   within 20 days after service of the order (or, if longer, the
   resolution of any appeal from such conviction) the attorney show cause
   to the court in writing why he or she should not be disbarred. As part
   of the order the attorney shall be immediately suspended pending the
   resolution of the show cause order; provided that the court may vacate
   such suspension when it appears in the interest of justice to do so.

   (B) In lieu of proceeding under subparagraph (A), the court, or a judge
   thereof, may refer an accusation or evidence that a member of the bar
   has committed a serious crime to the Grievance Committee for
   investigation, hearing, and report as under paragraph (1). If a final
   judgment of conviction has been entered, the referral shall be made by
   issuance of a show cause order as under paragraph (1)(C), in which the
   sole issue to be determined by the Committee is the extent of
   discipline that should be recommended.

   (C) The term "serious crime" means any felony, as well as any lesser
   crime a necessary element of which, as determined by the statutory or
   common law definition of such crime in the jurisdiction in which it was
   entered, involves false swearing, misrepresentation, fraud, deceit,
   bribery, extortion, misappropriation, theft, or an attempt, conspiracy,
   or solicitation of another to commit a "serious crime."

   (D) A certified copy of a final judgment of conviction of an attorney
   for any crime shall be conclusive evidence of the commission of that
   crime for purposes of discipline under this Rule. If a conviction is
   reversed, any suspension imposed under subparagraph (A) shall be
   vacated, but disciplinary proceedings may be commenced or proceed under
   subparagraph (B), in which event the Committee shall also determine and
   report its findings as to whether the attorney committed the crime.

   (3) Discipline Imposed By Other Courts and Disciplinary Authorities.

   (A) If a member of the bar of this court is suspended, disbarred,
   transferred to inactive status, or otherwise publicly disciplined by
   another court or disciplinary authority, this court may enter an order
   directing that within 20 days after service of that order the attorney
   show cause to this court in writing why, for any of the grounds set
   forth in subparagraph (C) hereof, the imposition of appropriate
   disciplinary action as stated therein (which, except for monetary
   sanctions, shall ordinarily be substantially identical to that imposed
   by such other court or disciplinary authority) would be unwarranted. As
   part of the order the court may direct that the attorney be suspended
   pending the resolution of such inquiry. Sanctions under Federal Rule of
   Civil Procedure 11 and similar rules do not constitute, for purposes of
   this paragraph and subsection (f), public discipline unless the
   sanction is disbarment or suspension.

   (B) If the discipline imposed in the other jurisdiction has been
   stayed, any reciprocal disciplinary proceedings instituted or
   discipline imposed in this court shall be deferred until such stay
   expires.

   (C) This court shall impose the disciplinary action stated in the order
   unless in the response the attorney clearly demonstrates to the court
   that:

   (i) the procedure in the other jurisdiction was so lacking in notice or
   opportunity to be heard as to constitute a deprivation of due process;

   (ii) there was such an infirmity of proof establishing misconduct that
   the court should not accept as final the conclusions of the other
   jurisdiction;

   (iii) the imposition of the disciplinary action stated in the order
   would result in grave injustice; or

   (iv) the misconduct is deemed by this court to warrant substantially
   different discipline from that stated in the order.

   Unless this court determines that element (i) or (ii) exists--in which
   event it shall enter such order as it deems appropriate--a final
   determination by another court or disciplinary authority that an
   attorney has been guilty of misconduct shall establish conclusively the
   misconduct for purpose of proceedings in this court.

   (D) If an attorney has consented to disbarment by another bar, or has
   resigned from another bar while an investigation into allegations of
   misconduct was pending, the court may, in lieu of the other procedures
   of this paragraph (3), order that the attorney be forthwith disbarred
   and removed from the bar of this court.

   (E) In lieu of the procedures set forth in this paragraph (3), this
   court may at any stage ask the Grievance Committee to conduct
   disciplinary proceedings under paragraph (1) or to make recommendations
   to the court for appropriate action in light of the discipline imposed
   by another court or disciplinary authority.

   (4) Disbarment on Consent While Under Disciplinary Investigation or
   Prosecution. A member of the bar of this court who is the subject of an
   investigation or a pending proceeding involving allegations of
   misconduct may consent to disbarment or removal from the bar of this
   court, but only by delivering to this court an affidavit stating that
   the attorney desires to consent to disbarment or removal and that:

   (A) the consent is knowingly, freely, and voluntarily rendered, without
   coercion or duress; and

   (B) the attorney is aware that there is a presently pending
   investigation or proceeding involving allegations of misconduct and
   acknowledges either that the material facts so alleged are true or
   that, upon prosecution of the charges relating to the matters under
   investigation, the attorney could not successfully defend himself or
   herself.

   Upon receipt of the required affidavit, this court shall enter an order
   disbarring or removing the attorney from the bar of this court. The
   order shall be a matter of public record. However, the affidavit
   required pursuant to this paragraph shall not be publicly disclosed or
   made available for use in any other proceeding except upon order of
   this court.

   (5) Service of Papers and Other Notices. Service of an order to show
   cause instituting, or in furtherance of, formal disciplinary proceeding
   shall be made by personal service or by registered or certified mail
   addressed to the affected attorney at the last address provided by such
   person to the court. Service of any other papers or notices required by
   this Rule shall be deemed to have been made if such paper or notice is
   mailed to the attorney at such address or to the person's attorney at
   the address indicated in the most recent pleading or document filed by
   them in the course of any proceeding under this Rule.

   (6) Duties of the Clerk.

   (A) Upon being informed that an attorney who is a member of the bar of
   this court has been convicted of any serious crime or has been
   disbarred, suspended, or publicly disciplined by another court or
   disciplinary authority, the Clerk of this court shall promptly obtain
   and submit to the court a certified or exemplified copy of the
   conviction or disciplinary judgment or order.

   (B) Whenever any attorney has been convicted in this court of any
   serious crime or has been disbarred, suspended, censured, or otherwise
   publicly disciplined by this court, the Clerk of this court shall,
   within ten days thereafter, transmit a certified or exemplified copy of
   the conviction or of the order of disbarment, suspension, censure, or
   disciplinary action (i) to the National Discipline Bank operated by the
   American Bar Association and (ii) to any jurisdiction or court which,
   to the Clerk's knowledge, has previously admitted such person to the
   practice of law.

   (i) Incompetency, Incapacity, Disability, Impairment. If it appears
   that a member of the bar of this court has demonstrated a lack of
   competency to represent clients adequately in proceedings before this
   court or may be physically, mentally, emotionally, or psychologically
   incapacitated, disabled, or impaired, whether by addiction to or abuse
   of drugs or alcohol or for other reason, in a manner that jeopardizes
   the attorney's ability to represent clients adequately in such
   proceedings, the court or a judge thereof may refer the matter to the
   Grievance Committee for appropriate inquiry, investigation,
   counselling, and report. The availability of this procedure shall not
   preclude the court from acting under subsection (h) with respect to
   misconduct, notwithstanding such misconduct may have been the result
   of, or attributable to, incompetency, incapacity, disability, or
   impairment.

   (1) Nature of referral. A referral under this subsection is not
   considered as a disciplinary matter and does not implicate the formal
   procedures described in subsection (h). Upon receiving the referral,
   the Committee shall, if feasible, seek to meet informally with the
   attorney, explain the nature of the inquiry and the circumstances
   giving rise to the referral, and consider the comments and explanations
   of the attorney. The Committee shall then conduct such further inquiry
   and investigation as is needed to determine whether such incompetency,
   incapacity, disability, or impairment exists and, if so, what remedial
   actions could be taken to correct such condition.

   (2) Determination of Competency. If the Committee determines that
   incompetency, incapacity, disability, or impairment does not exist to
   the extent of jeopardizing adequate representation of clients by the
   attorney, it shall so advise the court and the attorney, and the
   inquiry shall be considered closed. Such a resolution does not,
   however, preclude the court from proceeding with possible disciplinary
   action under subsection (h) if otherwise warranted.

   (3) Condition Jeopardizing Representation. If the Committee determines
   that incompetency, incapacity, disability, or impairment does exist to
   the extent of jeopardizing adequate representation of clients by the
   attorney, it shall ascertain whether the attorney is willing to resign
   from the bar of this court or, if the condition may be correctable
   within a reasonable time, to cease further representation of clients in
   this court until the condition is corrected, whether by treatment,
   counselling, education, or other remedial measures.

   (A) If the attorney resigns, the Committee shall so advise the court,
   and the matter shall be considered closed. The attorney may apply for
   reinstatement under subsection (j) when the condition has been
   corrected.

   (B) If the attorney agrees to take corrective action and to cease
   further representation of clients until the condition is corrected, the
   Committee shall so advise the court, indicating the remedial measures
   to be undertaken. The Committee shall further advise the court when the
   condition appears to have been remedied, at which time the attorney may
   resume the representation of clients in this court.

   (C) If the matter is not resolved voluntarily under subparagraphs (A)
   or (B), the Committee shall, after any additional investigation that
   may be needed, submit to the court a written report as under
   subdivision (h)(1)(C) in order that the matter may thereafter proceed
   as a disciplinary matter.

   (j) Reinstatement. An attorney suspended for three months or less shall
   be automatically reinstated at the end of the period of suspension upon
   the filing with this court of an affidavit of compliance with the
   provisions of the order. An attorney suspended for more than three
   months, or disbarred or removed from the bar of this court, may not
   resume the practice of law before this court until reinstated by order
   of the court. An attorney who has been disbarred or removed from the
   bar of this court after hearing or consent may not petition for
   reinstatement until such person is a member in good standing of Alabama
   State Bar and at least five years have expired after the effective date
   of disbarment or removal, except that such a petition by a person
   removed because of incompetency, incapacity, or impairment may be made
   prior to expiration of such five year period upon a showing that the
   incompetency, incapacity, or impairment no longer exists.

   (1) Petition for Reinstatement. Petitions for reinstatement by a
   disbarred, removed, or suspended attorney under this Rule shall be
   filed with the Chief Judge of this court. Upon receipt of the petition,
   the Chief Judge may submit the petition to the court or may refer it to
   the Grievance Committee, which shall promptly schedule a hearing at
   which the petitioner shall have the burden of establishing by clear and
   convincing evidence that he or she has the moral qualifications,
   capacity, competency, and learning in the law required for admission to
   practice before this court and that resumption by such person of the
   practice of law will not be detrimental to the integrity and standing
   of the bar or the administration of justice or disserve the public
   interest. Upon completion of the hearing the Committee shall make a
   full report to the court. The Committee shall include its findings of
   fact as to the petitioner's fitness to resume the practice of law and
   its recommendations as to whether or not the petitioner should be
   reinstated.

   (2) Order. If after consideration of the Committee's report and
   recommendation the court finds that the petitioner is unfit to resume
   the practice of law, the petition shall be denied. If after
   consideration of the Committee's report and recommendation the court
   finds that the petitioner is fit to resume the practice of law, the
   court shall reinstate the petitioner, provided that the reinstatement
   may be made conditional (i) upon the payment of all or part of the
   costs of the proceedings, and the making of partial or complete
   restitution to all parties harmed by the conduct of the petitioner
   which led to the suspension or disbarment; (ii), if the petitioner was
   suspended or disbarred for five years or more, upon the furnishing of
   proof of competency and learning in the law, which proof may include
   certification by the bar examiners of a state or other jurisdiction of
   the attorney's successful completion of an examination for admission to
   practice subsequent to the date of suspension or disbarment; and (iii)
   upon any other or additional terms which the court in its discretion
   deems appropriate.

   (3) Successive Petitions. No petition for reinstatement under this Rule
   shall be filed within one year following an adverse judgment upon a
   petition for reinstatement filed by or on behalf of the same person.

   (4) Expenses. Petitions for reinstatement under this Rule shall be
   accompanied by a deposit in an amount to be set from time to time by
   the court in consultation with the Grievance Committee to cover
   anticipated costs of the reinstatement proceeding.

   (k) Retained Powers. The provisions of subsections (h) and (i) do not
   apply to or limit the imposition of sanctions or other disciplinary or
   remedial action as may be authorized by the Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure or the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, or through
   exercise of the inherent or statutory powers of the court in
   maintaining control over proceedings conducted before it, such as
   proceedings for contempt under Title 18 of the United States Code or
   under Rule 42 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Nor do the
   provisions of such subsections limit the court's power to refer matters
   to appropriate committees or officials of the Alabama State Bar for
   such investigation and action as may be appropriate.

   LR83.2 Broadcasting and Photographs. Whether or not court is actually
   in session, there shall be no radio or television broadcasting or
   taking of photographs in or from the courtrooms or their environs
   during the progress of, or in connection with, any judicial proceeding,
   including proceedings before a Magistrate. This restriction does not
   apply to naturalization ceremonies or other ceremonial proceedings.

  United States District Court
