http://courtlink.utcourts.gov/reports/statejudiciary/state02.htm

   State of the Judiciary Address
   Chief Justice Richard C. Howe
   January 25, 2002
     __________________________________________________________________

   President Mansell / Speaker Stephens, Senators / Representatives,
   guests. Thank you for the opportunity to join you today, and to discuss
   the state of Utah's judiciary. Thank you also for accommodating my
   schedule this week. Ordinarily this address is earlier in the session,
   but the Conference of Chief Justices held their winter meetings at the
   same time, and I wanted to be with them one last time. I say last time
   because my term as Chief Justice of the Utah Supreme Court ends in just
   a few months. So, this will be my last State of the Judiciary address
   as well.

   Since it is my last, I hope you will forgive me if I indulge in a
   little nostalgia. 22 years ago, when I was sworn in as a member of the
   Supreme Court, things were a little bit different, and a little bit the
   same as now, both in the legislature and in the judiciary. The
   legislative issues of 1980 included these:

     The compensation of legislators was raised from $15 to $40 per day.

     There were only 99 House bills and 85 Senate bills introduced that
     year. Of course this was when the even numbered years were
     supposedly just "budget sessions."

     H.C.R. 1 welcomed the Utah Jazz Basketball Club to the state, and
     wished them success.

     H.J.R. 18 approved the appointment of Jon Memmott as the Legislative
     Research Director. Of course Jon Memmott is now a District Judge in
     Davis County, and has been for nine years.

     S.R. 1 called on President Carter to reconsider the decision to
     deploy the MX missile in the Utah desert.

     The Olympics were on the agenda then, too. H.J.R. 27 urged the
     boycott of the 1980 summer games in Moscow, because "the loss of
     medals by Olympic athletes would be a far smaller sacrifice than is
     the loss of life, liberty, and property now being suffered by the
     citizens of Afghanistan."

     Jim Hansen was the Speaker of the House, Carl Saunders was finishing
     his term as the Representative from District 48 in Weber County, and
     Mike Dmitrich was in the House of Representatives representing
     Carbon County.

   The courts were a bit different, and a bit the same, in 1980 as well.

     There were 57 trial judges in the state then, now there are 70.

     However, in 1980 there were just under 2,800 felonies charged
     statewide, and last year there were well over 17,000 - six times as
     many.

     Then, clerks recorded most actions of the courts by hand in large
     docket books, while court reporters keyed in the testimony of
     witnesses, later to be transcribed. Now, clerks enter orders into
     statewide networked computer systems, and digital audio recordings
     of the proceedings are automatically stored onto electronically
     indexed and searchable CDs.

     During the intervening years the structure of the courts has
     changed, too. Two levels of court, the Circuit Court and the
     District Court were consolidated into one; the Court of Appeals was
     created; and we have gone from 210 justice courts down to 136.

     In some ways the role of the judge has changed, as well. Recently we
     have created drug courts and mental health courts, where judges
     become part of a team focused on solving the problems that cause
     offenders to commit crimes. This is different than the traditional
     approach, where judges focus on the procedure and the law, but not
     on the background factors that cause the defendant to commit crime.
     But times change, our communities change, and we have to adapt to
     those changes.

   We have also worked hard to change old perceptions of the judiciary
   held by the public. There are notions about courts that have been
   around for decades, and some of them persist even in the face of these
   changes. Three such views of the judiciary that I would like to mention
   are:

    1. That courts are an insular and secretive institution.
    2. That courts operate like an exclusive fraternity for the
       law-trained.
    3. That courts are steeped in tradition and therefore slow to change.

   None of these perceptions are accurate anymore. I suspect most of you
   realize that I am the most senior member of our court, maybe the most
   senior member of the judiciary, but I can report to you that over the
   last four years as Chief Justice, the oldest player has embraced
   change, and I am proud of the steps we have taken to challenge the
   perceptions I have just mentioned.

   To those who would say that we are an insular organization, I point to
   our many community involvement programs. Programs like Juvenile Court
   Adoption Day, when our Juvenile Court judges schedule dozens of
   adoptions for the same time, and then celebrate together with punch,
   cookies, and teddy bears for all the children. I point to the 27
   community hearings we recently held across the state seeking public
   perceptions about racial and ethnic fairness in the justice system. I
   point to our customer service programs, such as our bi-lingual 1-800
   court information line, and our pay-by-phone system for traffic
   tickets. And I point proudly to the courts' effort to work with the
   State Board of Education to get basic civics and government process
   classes reinstated as part of our public school curriculum; and to
   judges who have created a high school lecture series in Cache and Box
   Elder Counties on the Declaration of Independence; who created a
   presentation on drugs to middle school students in Utah County; and who
   participate in dozens of career day programs, speakers groups, mock
   trials and mentor programs across the state every year.

   Our efforts to seek not only the input of citizens into our policy
   making, but also their meaningful involvement in our processes have
   been deliberate, for the old saying is true: Tell me, and I will
   forget. Show me, and I will remember. Involve me, and I will
   understand. With the involvement of citizens and legislators alike, we
   hope to foster a tangible understanding of Utah's courts, and of the
   role we all play in assuring a fair and effective judicial system.

   The second perception that we are seeking to change is that the courts
   are an exclusive fraternity for the law-trained. Recent years have seen
   Utah's courts focus a great deal of energy on helping court users that
   are not represented by attorneys. Our Online Court Assistance Program
   has been nationally recognized as the most advanced interactive court
   application of its kind. Users fill in the answers to basic questions
   at their home computers, and the program generates the appropriate
   legal pleadings, complete and ready to file.

   We have also supported efforts like Waine's Clinic, a free workshop
   offered to unrepresented litigants, where questions on almost any legal
   topic are addressed and then followed up with individual help. Started
   in Salt Lake City just one night per week, this help has been expanded,
   not just in Salt Lake but to several other Utah cities as well. The
   founder of that effort, attorney Waine Riches, was the recipient of our
   Amicus Curiae, or friend of the court award last year, in recognition
   of the hundreds and hundreds of hours he has devoted to helping
   unrepresented litigants protect their legal rights.

   The Supreme Court has also agreed to lead an inquiry into the delivery
   of legal services in Utah. Five legislators, two Supreme Court
   Justices, several state Bar representatives and others are studying
   ways to improve access to legal services for all citizens. Technology
   solutions, court forms, alternatives to traditional litigation, and
   para-professionals are all being looked at as mechanisms for enhancing
   the ability of non-lawyers to obtain legal remedies. That committee
   plans on reporting its findings to you next fall.

   The final image I would like to challenge is that of a slow-moving,
   unresponsive court system. In the four years of my tenure as Chief
   Justice, I have witnessed remarkable changes in our courts. For
   example, the first drug court started in Utah began operating in 1994,
   but in the past four years we have increased from two drug courts to
   18.

   Technology advances have not only made those heavy docket books relics
   of the past, but have allowed our citizens to check on the status of
   their case and pay fines via the touch pad on their telephone, prepare
   their own pleadings with the assistance of a computer, and court users
   can already, with some cases, file court documents with the stroke of a
   key, rather than a trip to the courthouse.

   Alternative dispute resolution programs were first formally recognized
   in Utah in 1994, and the courts have gone from one such program just
   four years ago to eight, now. We have created truancy mediation,
   parent-time mediation, appellate mediation, victim-offender mediation
   and child welfare mediation programs that are as innovative and
   effective as any in the country.

   By my reckoning, and I have a pretty good frame of reference, change in
   court programs in Utah has been anything but slow. I believe the public
   has been well served by these developments, and I compliment our
   dedicated judges and staff for their ability to accept change, adapt
   and improve.

   All the advances that have been made, and will continue to be made, are
   aimed at enhancing public confidence in the institution of the courts.
   As public leaders, you and I have many responsibilities, but none is
   more important than building trust in and support for our form of
   government, and for the rule of law. More than ever, our society needs
   the reassurance that comes with a reliable, fair judicial system
   grounded in the predictability of that rule of law. Our judges must be
   respected as caretakers of the laws and of the legal system, preserving
   it for future generations.

   By the same token, the public is entitled to assurances that we have
   well qualified and accountable judges occupying these positions of
   trust. I am proud of the fine women and men who make up our state's
   judiciary. They are as fine as any in the country, and the legislature
   can take a great deal of credit for that. Let me explain why.

   As I meet with the chief justices of the other states and territories,
   I find that much of their time and the time of judges in their states
   is taken up with focusing on the next election, and with raising money
   to finance their campaigns. Years ago, a supreme court judge in one
   state told me that for one year before the next election, he spends his
   weekends contacting law firms for contributions. He had to raise over a
   million dollars. I am sure that it is now several million dollars.
   Often, these contested elections become bitter, and large amounts are
   raised to elect a judge or to defeat a judge who really can only make
   one promise, and that is to be fair. After the election is over, the
   problem does not go away. Litigants and attorneys who have contributed
   to the judge's campaign then may appear in the judge's court. The judge
   then should advise the opposing side of the contribution and let them
   decide whether to request the disqualification of the judge from
   hearing the case. The problem is so acute in other states that national
   conferences are held to discuss how to limit campaign contributions to
   judges and what judges can do and not do in their campaigning.

   I am always happy and proud to point out that in Utah, we have none of
   these judicial campaigning problems. Nearly seventy years ago, the
   legislature in 1943 adopted a joint resolution proposing an amendment
   to the Utah Constitution to provide for the selection of judges "based
   solely upon consideration of fitness for office without regard to any
   partisan political considerations and free from influence of any person
   whomsoever, or in other words, judges shall be selected on their merit
   alone. The voters approved the amendment at the general election in
   1944. Mind you, this was done while our country was engaged in World
   War II. Following this constitutional direction, judges are now
   appointed by the Governor based on merit, and confirmed by the Senate.
   The judge then takes office and runs in a retention election at the end
   of each term of office. Information about a judge's record is given to
   the voters so they can decide whether to keep the judge in office for
   another term. This process works without a judge generally having to
   raise any money at all and allows the judge to focus his or her time on
   running a court and deciding cases instead of raising money and
   focusing on the next election. The system we have in Utah is
   undoubtedly the best in the nation, and I want this legislature to know
   that I consider the constitutional amendment proposed by the
   legislature in 1943 and adopted in 1944 as the most significant event
   affecting the Utah Judiciary since Utah became a state in 1896.

   I wanted to highlight this particular reform and thank this body for
   its foresight. Our system for selecting and retaining judges is an
   excellent illustration of the understanding this body has of the role
   of the judiciary and the importance of having well qualified and
   accountable judges. This step, as well as the many others I have
   reflected on today are the product of many collaborations between the
   representatives of the three branches of government here in Utah. We
   have constantly worked together in the interest of our mutual
   constituents, the people of this great state, and they have been very
   well served by that cooperation, and I thank you for it.

   I have looked forward to each of the four times I have now delivered
   this address to you. Not because what I had to say was so important,
   but because the annual State of the Judiciary address is a tangible
   symbol of our mutual respect and understanding of our constitutional
   roles. And while I have said before that those roles are more important
   and enduring than the people who play them, that doesn't mean that the
   people are unimportant. In fact they are. And if you would allow me the
   indulgence of gratitude as well as nostalgia, I would like to thank a
   few important people for their help in shaping and implementing the
   profound advancements that we have all shared in for Utah's judiciary
   over the years.

   To the thousands of dedicated lawyers I have associated with since I
   was admitted to the Bar in 1949, thank you. To the hundreds of caring
   and capable judges with whom I have worked, thank you. To the dozens of
   proficient court administrators and staff who have supported me, thank
   you. To the 10 other justices of the Supreme Court who have been my
   colleagues, and who have allowed me the honor of this position, thank
   you. To my family, thank you very much.

   In that this is the last time I will have the opportunity to address
   this body, I want to tell you what an honor and a privilege it has been
   to serve the people of this state. First, as a member and then Speaker
   of the House of Representatives, as a member of the Senate, and then as
   a Justice and Chief Justice of our Supreme Court. I hope I have made
   the kind of contribution that should be expected of one given such
   wonderful opportunities and lofty responsibilities. I have enjoyed the
   aid and support of many truly gifted public servants, and I thank each
   and every one of you. Thank you for allowing me and my fellow justices
   to appear before you.
