http://clinton2.nara.gov/ONAP/

                       Office of National AIDS Policy

                                 Contact us!
                              Get information!
                             Link to the world!
                               Meet the staff!
                              Search this site!
                          See our photo collection!
                                  Hot news!


                                  Welcome!

     Thank you for visiting the home page for the White House Office of
     National AIDS Policy! We hope that this web site provides you with
     useful information on efforts by the Clinton/Gore administration to
            address the national and international AIDS pandemic.

   Sandra Thurman, ONAP Director ONAP was created by President Clinton and
   Vice President Gore to provide broad policy guidance and leadership on
           the Federal government's response to the AIDS epidemic.

     We work closely with community-based and national organizations to
   discuss the Federal response to the AIDS epidemic, and to reflect their
           concerns in the development of Administration policies.

    Among its responsibilities, ONAP works closely with the Presidential
    Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS, which provides essential input into our
    efforts. ONAP also created and facilitates an Interdepartmental Task
    Force on HIV/AIDS. This Task Force serves to foster communication and
    coordination among those Federal agencies involved in HIV/AIDS policy
                              and initiatives.

   Thank you for your efforts to care for those living with HIV and AIDS,
         to stop the spread of this terrible disease, and to support
   AIDS-related research. Only by working together will we be able to, one
                        day, have a day without AIDS.

                               Sandra Thurman
                                  Director



                                  separator


                      Go to the White House home page!
                             ONAP Home Page Pin
                      Go to the White House help desk!
