http://www.noaa.gov/lautenbacher.html


   NOAA Banner
   Click here for NOAA home page

   Click here for site map.

   Click here for contacts page.

   Click here to search NOAA sites.

   spacer

   Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr. banner

   Vice Admiral Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr., USN (Ret.) Vice Admiral
   Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr., USN (Ret.)
   Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere and
   NOAA Administrator

   A native of Philadelphia, Pa., and a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy
   (Class of '64), Vice Admiral Lautenbacher has served in a broad range
   of operational, command and staff billets.

   Operational tours include Division Officer in USS WASP (CVS-18), and
   USS HENRY B. WILSON (DDG-7), a second tour on the USS HENRY B. WILSON
   (DDG-7) as Department Head, and Executive Officer of USS BENJAMIN
   STODDERT (DDG-22). Areas of expertise include Anti-submarine Warfare,
   Anti-air Warfare, and Naval Surface Fire Support, with expertise gained
   during a number of deployments to the Western Pacific and Southeast
   Asia during the Vietnam War.

   Command experience includes tours as Commanding Officer of USS HEWITT
   (DD-966), Commander Naval Station Norfolk, Commander of
   Cruiser-Destroyer Group Five with additional duties as Commander, U.S.
   Naval Forces Central Command Riyadh, during Operations Desert Shield
   and Desert Storm, where he was in charge of Navy planning and
   participation in the air campaign. As Commander U.S. Third Fleet, he
   introduced Joint training to the Pacific with the initiation of the
   first West Coast Joint Task Force Training Exercises (JTFEXs). A leader
   in the introduction of cutting edge information technology, he
   pioneered the use of information technology to mount large-scale
   operations using sea based command and control. He was the architect of
   the USS CORONADO transformation to a prototype Joint Command and
   Control ship (JCC), a founding father of the current Fleet Battle
   Experiment program, and originator of the Sea Based Battle Laboratory
   concept for significantly reducing the time to move technology to the
   fleet.

   Staff duties include higher education as well as significant
   assignments in senior management. Vice Admiral Lautenbacher attended
   Harvard University receiving MS and Ph.D. degrees in Applied
   Mathematics. He was selected as a Federal Executive Fellow and served
   at the Brookings Institution. He served as a guest lecturer on numerous
   occasions at the Naval War College, the Army War College, the Air War
   College, The Fletcher School of Diplomacy, and the components of the
   National Defense University.

   As a Cost Analyst in OSD Systems Analysis, he became an expert in
   building cost estimating models for major acquisition programs with
   specialization in aircraft R&D and procurement. He was one of the
   original members of the Cost Analysis Improvement Group (CAIG)
   independent cost estimating effort. As Assistant for Strategy with the
   CNO Executive Panel, and Program Planning Branch Head in the Navy
   Program Planning Directorate, he continued to hone his analytic skills
   resulting in designation as a specialist both in Operations Analysis
   and Financial Management.

   As a Flag Officer he served as Deputy Chief of Staff for
   Management/Inspector General on the staff of Commander in Chief U.S.
   Pacific Fleet; and Director of Force Structure, Resources, and
   Assessments (J-8) on the Joint Staff, where he contributed to the
   development of the Base Force and was a prime architect of the Bottom
   Up Review military force structure. He also served as director, Office
   of Program Appraisal, on the Staff of the Secretary of the Navy and his
   last assignment on active duty was Deputy Chief of Naval Operations
   (Resources, Warfare Requirements and Assessments) personally
   responsible for developing the Navy Future (five) Years Program and
   $80B annual budget. These positions resulted in the development of
   significant expertise in federal government processes within both the
   Executive and Legislative branches.

   After transitioning to the civilian sector, he formed his own
   management consultant business, and worked principally for Technology,
   Strategies & Alliances Inc. He was President and CEO of the Consortium
   for Oceanographic Research and Education (CORE) before joining NOAA
   Monday, Dec. 10, 2001. This not-for-profit organization has a
   membership of 65 institutions of higher learning, and a mission to
   increase basic knowledge and public support across the spectrum of
   ocean sciences.

     spacer

     line

     Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration
     (NOAA)
     Last Updated: 12/10/01

     spacer
