http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/1999-Spring/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                            Spring 1999 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available. Thank you for your patience.

   Date Topic Speaker
   March 1 Hypersonic Waveriders to Orbit and Beyond Mark Lewis
   Aeronautical Engineering
   Dept., Univ. of Maryland
   March 8  Cryptology, Technology, and Policy Susan Landau
   Sun Microsystems
   Laboratories
   March 15  Satellites in the Real World -- Policy and
   Regulation Clayton Mowry
   Director, U.S. Satellite
   Industry Association
   March 22 A Brief History of the Time of Day Jo Ellen Barnett
   Department of Microbiology,
   Mount Sinai School of Medicine
   March 29  Engineering Ground Stations in the Antarctic Environment
   TDRS/NSF Team
   GSFC
   April 5  Miniaturization of Space Electronics Ark Lew
   JHU Applied Physics
   Laboratory
   April 12  Poly-pedal Animal Locomotion Robert Full
   Univ. of Calif., Berkeley
   April 19  Lunar Prospector Mario Acuna
   GSFC
   April 26 No Colloquium
   May 3
   SPECIAL EVENT
   Book signing by Lane Wallace,
   author of "GSFC 40th
   Anniversary" The History of the Goddard Space Flight Center Lane
   Wallace
   Author
   May 10 X-34 -- Reusable Launch Vehicle (RLV) Robert Lindberg
   Orbital Sciences Corporation
   May 17 Monitoring and Controlling Debris in Space Nicholas L. Johnson
   NASA/Johnson Space Center
   May 24 Project Phoenix and Other SETI Programs Jill Tarter
   Director, Project Phoenix,
   SETI Institute

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
