http://chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov/csdl/op/proced.html

   jump to text [trans-top-right.gif]

   [USEMAP:navigation_r1_c1.gif]
   About Us
   What's New?
   Navigational Charts and Related Products
   Critical Corrections
   Wrecks and Obstructions
   Navigation Services
   Hydrographic Surveys
   Historic Maps and Charts
   Research and Development
   Sales Information
   Library
   FAQs
   Contact Us
   Home
   [navigation_r16_c1.gif]

   ""

   Office of Coast Survey Text Marine Modeling and Analysis


   [topline.gif]
   Hydrographic Systems and Technology
   Cartographic and Geospatial Technology Marine Modeling and Analysis
   [botlines.gif]

Procedures for Implementing Operational Nowcast/Forecast Systems

   NOS has established a set of procedures for assessing the skill of its
   oceanographic nowcast and forecast systems developed as part of its
   Physical Oceanographic Real-Time Systems (PORTS). Skill assessment is
   critical in helping NOS ensure that these models are developed so that
   they are consistent with user needs, they are implemented in a
   scientifically sound and operationally robust way, their shortcomings
   are well understood, and that all products and procedures are
   authoritative in the face of potential legal challenges.

   The components of skill assessment include the identification of the
   variables relevant to the intended application, model run scenarios,
   the comparison statistics or quantities, and the acceptance criteria.
   User-based skill assessment assumes that a forecast will be most useful
   when it includes variables specifically needed by the user, and when
   accuracy is high enough that specific management or operational
   decisions can be reliably made. The primary user for NOS's nowcasts and
   forecasts is the maritime navigational community. The primary forecast
   variables, in terms of importance to the user, are: the magnitude of
   the water level at all times, the times and heights of high and low
   water, the speed and direction of the currents at all times, and the
   times of slack water before flood and ebb. The scenarios describe the
   type of forcing and the sources of forcing data of forecasts. The
   statistics are a small set of quantities that are easy to define,
   compute, and explain and that cover global accuracy and extreme cases.
   Acceptance criteria include numerical values for the statistics.

   The procedures are explained in detail in the pdf document NOS
   Technical Report NOS Procedures for Implementing Operational Nowcast
   and Forecast Systems for PORTS(.pdf).

   link to download adobe acrobat reader

   About Us What's New? Nautical Charts and Related Publications Critical
   Corrections Wrecks and Obstructions [Transpar-nav-box.gif] Hydrographic
   Surveys Research and Development Historic Maps and Charts Library Sales
   Information FAQs Contact Us Home

   Top line
   Department of Commerce
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   OCS Privacy Statement
   National Ocean Service
   [bottomlines.gif]

   Revised Wednesday November 07 2001by OCS Webmaster
