http://eos13.cit.nih.gov/about/Faqs.htm

   Skip Over Navigation Links

   NIH National Institutes of Health, DHHS
   Health Information Grants & Funding Opportunities News Scientific
   Resources Institutes, Centers & Offices About NIH Building 1
     Back to NIH Home Page

   Back to: About NIH

   Questions and answers about N I H


   On this page
   Health Information
   Grants & Funding
   News & Events
   Scientific Resources
   About NIH
   Jobs at NIH
   NIH Website
   Health Inforrmation
   Health conditions - Where can I find information about a specific
   disease?
   Bioterrorism - Where can I go for information about Anthrax and other
   biological agents?
   Alternative Medicine - Where can I find information about alternative
   medicine?
   Clinical trials - Where can I go for information about clinical trials?
   Healthy volunteers - Can I volunteer for NIH research studies even if
   I'm healthy?
   Medical advice - Does the NIH provide advice about specific medical
   conditions?
   Medical treatment - Can I receive medical treatment at the NIH?
   Doctor referrals - Can the NIH recommend medical specialists or
   hospitals in my area?
   Drug information - Where can I go to learn about prescription
   medications, over-the-counter drugs, and narcotics?
   Grants and funding
   Grants - Where can I find grant information?
   Training - Where can I go for information about research training?
   News and events
   Research advances - Where can I find information about the latest
   research advances coming out of NIH?
   Stem cells - Where can I locate information about stem cell research?
   Event schedules - Where can I find information about NIH-sponsored
   conferences and events?
   Scientific Resources
   NIH Image software - Where can I find information about the NIH Image
   software package?
   Research standards - Who is responsible for the assurance of proper
   conduct of research?
   About N I H
   Mission - What is the National Institutes of Health?
   Location - Where is the NIH located?
   Visitors - Where can I get information about visiting the NIH campus
   now that new security measures are in place?
   Mailing address - What is the main mailing address of NIH?
   Toll-free number - Does NIH have a toll-free telephone number?
   Staff directory - How can I locate an NIH employee address, phone
   number, and e-mail address?
   NIH Director - How can I contact the Director of the NIH?
   NIH budget - Where can I find information about the NIH budget?
   Business opportunities - Where can I find information about conducting
   business with NIH?
   FOIA requests - How do I submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
   request?
   Jobs at N I H
   Jobs - Where can I find information about employment opportunities at
   NIH?
   Internships - Where can I find information about summer internships?
   N I H Website
   Privacy - Does NIH have a privacy notice posted online?
   Updates - How often is the NIH Web site updated?
   Linking to NIH - May I link to the NIH Web site?
   Links from NIH - Will the NIH link to my Web site?


   Health Information

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about a specific disease?

     The NIH Health Information Index at
     http://www.nih.gov/health/InformationIndex/HealthIndex/Pubincov.htm,
     provides a list of diseases currently under investigation by NIH or
     NIH-supported scientists and major NIH research areas with links to
     the appropriate institute(s), center(s), or other component(s) to
     call for information, along with the appropriate phone numbers.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I go for information about Anthrax and other biological
   agents?

     We believe the best source of information on these topics can be
     found on the Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response site,
     which is operated by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about alternative medicine?

     The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicines
     (NCCAM) web site is located at http://nccam.nih.gov/. NCCAM conducts
     and supports basic and applied research and training and
     disseminates information on complementary and alternative medicine
     to practitioners and the public.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I go for information about clinical trials?

     ClinicalTrials.gov, provides information on federal and private
     medical studies involving patients and others at thousands of
     locations nationwide at http://clinicaltrials.gov.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Can I volunteer for NIH research studies even if I'm healthy?

     The NIH Clinical Center provides an opportunity for healthy
     volunteers to participate in medical research studies (sometimes
     called protocols or trials). Healthy volunteers provide researchers
     with important information for comparison with people who have
     specific illnesses. Every year, nearly 3,500 healthy volunteers
     participate in studies at NIH. Visit the Clinical Research Volunteer
     Program to learn about the benefits of volunteering.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Does the NIH provide advice for specific medical conditions?

     The NIH web site does not offer personalized medical advice to
     individuals about their condition or treatment. The resources on
     this site should not be used as a substitute for professional
     medical care and we urge you to work with your medical care
     providers for answers to your personal health questions.

     If you have a medical question, please visit the Health Information
     (http://www.nih.gov/health/) section of the NIH web site. You should
     also visit MEDLINEplus at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/. We've
     found that a large percentage of the questions about NIH on-line
     resources can be answered by browsing our index pages or by using
     the NIH Search Engine at http://search.nih.gov/.

     If you have questions that relate to specific foods, or
     prescription, or over-the-counter drugs, you should visit the Food
     and Drug Administration (FDA) web site http://www.fda.gov/.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Can I receive medical treatment at the NIH?

     NIH is a medical research organization. As such, we only enroll
     patients who are participating in one of our clinical studies. These
     trials span a wide range of diseases and conditions. For information
     about clinical trials, go to http://clinicaltrials.gov.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Can the NIH recommend medical specialists or hospitals in my area?

     No. However, please visit Healthfinder at
     http://www.healthfinder.gov/ for information on choosing quality
     care.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I go to learn about prescription medications,
   over-the-counter drugs, and narcotics?

     NIH's National Library of Medicine provides a guide to over 9,000
     prescription and over-the-counter medications on its MEDLINEplus Web
     site. For the latest information on drug approvals and safety
     warnings, consult the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Web site.
     For information about drug abuse and addiction, visit the National
     Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA).


   Grants and Funding

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find grant information?

     Information regarding funding opportunities from NIH may be found at
     the Grants Page at http://www.grants.nih.gov/grants/oer.htm.This
     page provides information about NIH grant and fellowship programs,
     policy changes, administrative responsibilities of awardees, the
     Computer Retrieval of Information on Scientific Projects (CRISP)
     database, and the numbers and characteristics of awards made by the
     NIH.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I go for information about research training?

     Visit our Research Training Opportunities page. This site brings
     together information about the intramural and extramural training
     opportunities offered by all of NIH's Institutes and Centers.


   News and events

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about the latest research advances coming
   out of NIH?

     A good place to retrieve information about the latest advances
     coming from NIH would be to review the press release area of our
     News page. Here's a tip: if you want to search just the press
     releases, go to our advanced search page, click on the first
     drop-down box, and select "URL". Then enter the following string of
     text: http://www.nih.gov/news/pr/ before entering your keywords in
     the search fields provided.

     Here's an example of how to seach the NIH press releases for
     research on the effect of diet on diabetes:

     This image shows how to use the advanced search to search only the
     press releases. In the first drop-down box, choose URL. In the text
     field next to it, enter http://www.nih.gov/news/pr/ and then type
     keywords in the next two textfields.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I locate information about stem cell research?

     Visit the NIH Stem Cell information page.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about NIH-sponsored conferences and
   events?

     The NIH Calendar of Events, or "Yellow Sheet," is located at
     http://www.nih.gov/news/calendar/nihcalendar.htm. It lists
     NIH-sponsored meetings and other meetings of interest to both
     employees and the general public. It is updated daily and the listed
     meetings are free and open to the public.

     What's Happening at NIH? is a monthly listing of NIH-sponsored
     meetings and events of interest to the media.

     The NIH Calendar of Biomedical Meetings and Events includes meetings
     sponsored by NIH as well as major medical societies and biomedical
     research associations.


   Scientific Resources

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about NIH Image (the software package)?

     NIH Image is a public domain image processing and analysis program
     for the Macintosh. It was developed at the Research Services Branch
     (RSB) of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), part of the
     National Institutes of Health (NIH). The software is located at
     http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/Default.html.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Who is responsible for the assurance of proper conduct of research?

     The emergence of several abuses of the research process has
     generated some confusion about which office handles what type of
     abuse within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The
     attached document (http://ori.dhhs.gov/) was prepared to help
     clarify the matter.


   About N I H

                                                                 Up to Top

   What is the National Institutes of Health (NIH)?

     Founded in 1887, the National Institutes of Health today is one of
     the world's foremost medical research centers, and the Federal focal
     point for medical research in the U.S. The NIH, comprised of 27
     separate Institutes and Centers, is one of eight health agencies of
     the Public Health Service which, in turn, is part of the U.S.
     Department of Health and Human Services.

     Simply described, the goal of NIH research is to acquire new
     knowledge to help prevent, detect, diagnose, and treat disease and
     disability, from the rarest genetic disorder to the common cold. The
     NIH mission is to uncover new knowledge that will lead to better
     health for everyone. NIH works toward that mission by: conducting
     research in its own laboratories; supporting the research of
     non-Federal scientists in universities, medical schools, hospitals,
     and research institutions throughout the country and abroad; helping
     in the training of research investigators; and fostering
     communication of medical and health sciences information.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where is the NIH located?

     The main campus of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is
     located in Bethesda, Maryland. Our main mailing address is:

     National Institutes of Health
     Building 1
     1 Center Drive
     Bethesda, Maryland 20892

     Information about how to get to NIH is located at
     http://www.nih.gov/about/#visitor. Maps of campus and of the local
     area are located at http://www.nih.gov/about/maps.html.

     NIH scientists conduct their research in laboratories located on the
     main campus in Bethesda, and in several field units across the
     country and abroad. The NIH also has facilities in the Rockville,
     Maryland area and the NCI Frederick Cancer Research and Development
     Center (FCRDC) at Fort Detrick in Frederick, MD. The National
     Institute of Environmental Health Sciences' main facility is located
     in Research Triangle Park (RTP) in North Carolina.

     Other laboratory facilities include the NIH Animal Center in
     Poolesville, MD; the National Institute on Aging's Gerontology
     Research Center in Baltimore, MD; the Division of Intramural
     Research of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, also in Baltimore;
     the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases' Rocky
     Mountain Laboratories in Hamilton, MT, and several smaller field
     stations.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I get information about visiting the NIH campus now that new
   security measures are in place?

     The National Institutes of Health, like all Federal Government
     facilities, has recently instituted new security measures to ensure
     the safety of NIH employees and property. This web site,
     http://www.nih.gov/about/visitorsecurity.htm will provide you with
     information you need to know about entering the NIH campus and its
     buildings, parking and transportation on the campus, and other new
     security measures in place.

                                                                 Up to Top

   What is the main mailing address of NIH?

     Our mailing address is:

     National Institutes of Health
     Building 1
     1 Center Drive
     Bethesda, Maryland 20892

     Other NIH street addresses are available in a searchable database at
     http://dss.ors.od.nih.gov/mail/bldgindex.htm.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Does NIH have a toll-free telephone number?

     Toll-free Information Hotlines may be found at
     http://www.nih.gov/health/infoline.htm. The main number for NIH is
     (301) 496-4000.

                                                                 Up to Top

   How can I locate an NIH employee address, phone number, and email
   address?

     The NIH email and phone directory for NIH employees may be found at
     http://directory.nih.gov/.

                                                                 Up to Top

   How can I contact the Director of the NIH?

     Mailing address:
     Director, NIH
     9000 Rockville Pike
     Bethesda, Maryland 20892

     E-mail: execsec1@od.nih.gov
     Web site: http://www.nih.gov/about/director/index.htm.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about the NIH budget?

     A link to the current budget is available on our News and Events
     page at http://www.nih.gov/news/. More information about the NIH
     budget can be found at our Office of Financial Management, their
     site is located at http://www4.od.nih.gov/ofm/.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about conducting business with NIH?

     A number of Web pages have been developed to help you do business
     with NIH. If you are a small business, bookmark the NIH Small
     Business Office page to take advantage of monthly seminars on
     "Conducting Business with NIH." Information about contracts and
     other business opportunities can also be found at the NIH Office of
     Acquisition and Management Policy. We also encourage you to register
     your business with the NIH e-Portals in Commerce (e-PIC) system,
     which will allow NIH buyers to quickly find your organization when
     searching for products and services.

                                                                 Up to Top

   How do I submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request?

     Information regarding Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests may
     be found at http://www.nih.gov/icd/od/foia/index.htm.


   Jobs at N I H

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about employment opportunities at NIH?

     Information about employment opportunities at NIH may be found at
     http://www.nih.gov/about/index.html#employ.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Where can I find information about summer internships?

     Information about summer internships may be found at
     http://www.nih.gov/about/index.html#employ.


   N I H Website

                                                                 Up to Top

   Does NIH have a privacy notice posted online?

     Yes, NIH does have a privacy notice, it can be found at
     http://www.nih.gov/about/privacy.htm.

                                                                 Up to Top

   How often is the NIH Web site updated?

     The NIH web site is not just one site but a large collection of
     sites--over 150 servers. Some areas are updated daily while others
     may not be updated for weeks or months.

                                                                 Up to Top

   May I link to the NIH Web site?

     Unless noted otherwise, it is safe to assume that information posted
     on public Web sites within the "NIH.GOV" domain are considered to be
     "in the public domain." As such, you are free to establish links to
     NIH on-line resources. In establishing such links, we do ask that
     you avoid creating the impression that NIH is endorsing or promoting
     any particular product or service.

                                                                 Up to Top

   Will the NIH link to my web site?

     As a Federal agency, NIH cannot endorse or promote commercial or
     individual interests or services. In some cases, where the
     information serves the public good and is consistent with our
     mission, we may include an outside link to an external resource;
     however these need to be examined on a case-by-case basis. In
     general, the web developer of each particular site determines when
     links to outside entities are justified.



   This page was last reviewed on October 31, 2001 .

   [ Q&A About NIH | Employment Opportunities | Visitor Information | FOIA
   ]
   [ Recent Changes to This Site | Information for Employees | Información
   en español | Search ]
   [ Contact Us | Privacy Notice | Disclaimer | Accessibility]

  NIH Logo National Institutes of Health (NIH)
           Bethesda, Maryland 20892               DHHS Logo Department of Health
                                                            and Human Services
