http://www.rspa.dot.gov/abtrspa.html

   About RSPA

   As one of nine major agencies of the United States Department of
   Transportation (DOT), the Research and Special Programs Administration
   (RSPA) provides vital services to America's dynamic multimodal
   transportation system. Its safety and research programs strengthen the
   nation's industrial competitiveness, especially in a global economy
   where intermodal transportation is essential.

   RSPA is unique in terms of its multimodal mandate and its
   organizational history. It was established by the Secretary of
   Transportation in 1977 to be the operating administration for those
   programs that did not fit into the more narrowly defined missions of
   the existing modal administrations. Initially RSPA consisted of the
   Department's research facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts, the
   Materials Transportation Bureau which regulated hazardous materials and
   pipeline safety, and the Transportation Programs Bureau which managed
   programs of systems engineering, emergency transportation, university
   research, cargo security and facilitation, as well as the
   Transportation Safety Institute. Since 1977, RSPA has assumed
   additional responsibilities in the areas of research policy and
   technology sharing. RSPA was formally created by statute on October 25,
   1992, and the first RSPA Administrator to be appointed by the President
   and confirmed by the Senate was sworn in on September 22, 1994.

   Click here to view organizational chart.

   RSPA is at the forefront of transportation issues pertaining to safety,
   intermodalism, cost-effective regulation, compliance, training and
   research. Employees of RSPA work in varied cross-cutting areas of
   transportation, including:

     * Advancing intermodal transportation research and technology
     * Conducting transportation research
     * Protecting the public from the dangers inherent in the
       transportation of hazardous materials
     * Assuring that the safety and environmental risks of pipeline
       transportation are addressed
     * Providing civil sector preparedness for the Nation's transportation
       emergencies
     * Delivering training and technical assistance in transportation
       safety

   In its role as a provider of multiple transportation-related services
   and products, RSPA continues to identify its customers' requirements.
   Its strategic planning goals as outlined in its mission statement are
   focused on an understanding of these customer needs and expectations.

   RSPA also interacts with many different organizations (within and
   outside the Department) who can directly influence the provision of
   products and services to RSPA's customers. These entities are termed
   stakeholders. They impact RSPA programs by setting policy and guidance,
   proposing legislation, setting budget and staffing limits, providing
   resources, and providing programmatic or technical assistance. RSPA
   customers and stakeholders represent broad categories of institutional
   relationships involving several hundred organizations and individuals.

   RSPA leadership consists of an Administrator, a Deputy Administrator,
   Associate Administrators, for each of the following areas: Hazardous
   Materials Safety, Pipeline Safety, Management and Administration, and
   Research, Technology and Analysis; Office Directors for each of the
   following areas: Chief Counsel, Policy and Program Support, Emergency
   Transporation and Civil Rights; and the Director of the Volpe National
   Transportation Systems Center (located in Cambridge, MA).

                                   Return
