http://xdb.lbl.gov/Section2/Sec_2-2.html

   [OrangeBar.gif]

X-Ray Data Booklet

Section 2.2  HISTORY of SYNCHROTRON RADIATION

   [OrangeBar.gif]

   Arthur L. Robinson
   (This is an expanded version of the section published in the booklet)

   Although natural synchrotron radiation from charged particles spiraling
   around magnetic-field lines in space is as old as the stars—for example
   the light we see from the Crab Nebula—short-wavelength synchrotron
   radiation generated by relativistic electrons in circular accelerators
   is only a half-century old. The first observation, literally since it
   was visible light that was seen, came at the General Electric Research
   Laboratory in Schenectady, New York, on April 24, 1947. In the 50 years
   since, synchrotron radiation has become a premier research tool for the
   study of matter in all its varied manifestations, as facilities around
   the world constantly evolved to provide this light in ever more useful
   forms.

  A.    X-RAY BACKGROUND

   From the time of their discovery in 1895, both scientists and society
   have recognized the exceptional importance of x rays, beginning with
   the awarding of the very first Nobel Prize in Physics in 1901 to
   Röntgen "in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered
   by the discovery of the remarkable rays subsequently named after him."
   By the time synchrotron radiation was observed almost a half-century
   later, the scientific use of x rays was well established. Some
   highlights include

   ·        1909: Barkla and Sadler discover characteristic x-ray
   radiation (1917 Nobel Prize to Barkla)

   ·        1912: von Laue, Friedrich, and Knipping observe x-ray
   diffraction (1914 Nobel Prize to von Laue)

   ·        1913: Bragg, father and son, build an x-ray spectrometer (1915
   Nobel Prize)

   ·        1913: Moseley develops quantitative x-ray spectroscopy and
   Moseley’s Law

   ·        1916: Siegbahn and Stenstrom observe emission satellites (1924
   Nobel Prize to Siegbahn)

   ·        1921: Wentzel observes two-electron excitations

   ·        1922: Meitner discovers Auger electrons

   ·        1924: Lindh and Lundquist resolve chemical shifts

   ·        1927: Coster and Druyvesteyn observe valence-core multiplets

   ·        1931: Johann develops bent-crystal spectroscopy

  B.    EARLY HISTORY

   The theoretical basis for synchrotron radiation traces back to the time
   of Thomson's discovery of the electron. In 1897, Larmor derived an
   expression from classical electrodynamics for the instantaneous total
   power radiated by an accelerated charged particle. The following year,
   Liénard extended this result to the case of a relativistic particle
   undergoing centripetal acceleration in a circular trajectory. Liénard's
   formula showed the radiated power to be proportional to (E/mc^2)^4/R^2,
   where E is particle energy, m is the rest mass, and R is the radius of
   the trajectory. A decade later in 1907, Schott reported his attempt to
   explain the discrete nature of atomic spectra by treating the motion of
   a relativistic electron in a homogeneous magnetic field. In so doing,
   he obtained expressions for the angular distribution of the radiation
   as a function of the harmonic of the orbital frequency. Schott wrote a
   book-length essay on the subject in 1912.

   When attempts to understand atomic structure took a different turn with
   the work of Bohr, attention to radiation from circulating electrons
   waned. Interest in the radiation as an energy-loss mechanism was
   reawakened in the 1920s after physicists began contemplating
   magnetic-induction electron accelerators (betatrons) as machines to
   produce intense beams of x rays by directing the accelerated beam to a
   suitable target. (Commercial betatrons are still used as x-ray
   sources.) The first betatron to operate successfully was a 2.3-MeV
   device built in 1940 by Kerst at the University of Illinois, followed
   at GE by a 20-MeV and then a 100-MeV machine to produce high-energy x
   rays for nuclear research. Meanwhile, in the Soviet Union, Ivanenko and
   Pomeranchuk published their 1944 calculations showing that energy
   losses due to radiating electrons would set a limit on the energy
   obtainable in a betatron, which they estimated to be around 0.5 GeV.

   Subsequent theoretical work proceeded independently by Pomeranchuk and
   others in the Soviet Union and in the U. S., where by 1945 Schwinger
   had worked out in considerable detail the classical (i.e., non-quantum)
   theory of radiation from accelerated relativistic electrons. Major
   features demonstrated for the case of circular trajectories included
   the warping of the globular non-relativistic dipole radiation pattern
   into the strongly forward peaked distribution that gives synchrotron
   radiation its highly collimated property and the shift of the spectrum
   of the radiation to higher photon energies (higher harmonics of the
   orbital frequency) as the electron energy increased, with the photon
   energy at the peak of the distribution varying as E3/R. Schwinger did
   not publish his complete findings until 1949, but he made them
   available to interested parties. Quantum calculations, such as those by
   Sokolov and Tersov in the Soviet Union, later confirmed the classical
   results for electron energies below about 10 TeV.

  C.    DISCOVERY OF SYNCHROTRON RADIATION

   After testing of GE's 100-MeV betatron commenced in 1944, Blewett
   suggested a search for the radiation losses, which he expected from the
   work of Ivanenko and Pomeranchuk to be significant at this energy.
   However, two factors prevented success: whereas, according to
   Schwinger's calculations, the radiation spectrum for the 100-MeV
   betatron should peak in the near- infrared/visible range, the search
   took place in the radio and microwave regions at the orbital frequency
   (and low harmonics) and the tube in which the electrons circulated was
   opaque. Although quantitative measurements reported in 1946 of the
   electron-orbit radius as it shrunk with energy were in accord with
   predicted losses, there was also another proposed explanation with the
   result that, while Blewett remained convinced the losses were due to
   synchrotron radiation, his colleagues were not.

   Advances on another accelerator front led to the 1947 visual
   observation of synchrotron radiation at GE. The mass of particles in a
   cyclotron grows as the energy increases into the relativistic range.
   The heavier particles then arrive too late at the electrodes for a
   radio-frequency (RF) voltage of fixed frequency to accelerate them,
   thereby limiting the maximum particle energy. To deal with this
   problem, in 1945 McMillan in the U. S. and Veksler in the Soviet Union
   independently proposed decreasing the frequency of the RF voltage as
   the energy increases to keep the voltage and the particle in synch.
   This was a specific application of their phase-stability principle for
   RF accelerators, which explains how particles that are too fast get
   less acceleration and slow down relative to their companions while
   particles that are too slow get more and speed up, thereby resulting in
   a stable bunch of particles that are accelerated together.

   At GE, Pollack got permission to assemble a team to build a 70-MeV
   electron synchrotron to test the idea. Fortunately for the future of
   synchrotron radiation, the machine was not fully shielded and the
   coating on the doughnut-shaped electron tube was transparent, which
   allowed a technician to look around the shielding with a large mirror
   to check for sparking in the tube. Instead, he saw a bright arc of
   light, which the GE group quickly realized was actually coming from the
   electron beam. Langmuir is credited as recognizing it as synchrotron
   radiation or, as he called it, "Schwinger radiation." Subsequent
   measurements by the GE group began the experimental establishment of
   its spectral and polarization properties. Characterization measurements
   were also carried out in the 1950s at a 250-MeV synchrotron at the
   Lebedev Institute in Moscow.

                             [GEsynchrotron.jpg]

        Synchrotron light from the 70-MeV electron synchrotron at GE.

   The next step came with the 1956 experiments of Tomboulian and Hartman,
   who were granted a two-week run at the 320-MeV electron synchrotron at
   Cornell. Despite the limited time, they were able to confirm the
   spectral and angular distribution of the radiation with a grazing-
   incidence spectrograph in the ultraviolet from 80 Å to 300 Å. They also
   reported the first soft x- ray spectroscopy experiments with
   synchrotron radiation, measuring the transmission of beryllium and
   aluminum foils near the K and L edges. However, despite the advantages
   of synchrotron radiation that were detailed by the Cornell scientists
   and the interest their work stimulated, it wasn't until 1961 that an
   experimental program using synchrotron radiation got under way when the
   National Bureau of Standards (now National Institute of Standards and
   Technology) modified its 180-MeV electron synchrotron to allow access
   to the radiation via a tangent section into the machine's vacuum
   system.

  D.    THE FIRST GENERATION: PARASITIC OPERATION

   Under Madden and Codling, measurements began at the new NBS facility
   (Synchrotron Ultraviolet Radiation Facility or SURF) to determine the
   potential of synchrotron radiation for standards and as a source for
   spectroscopy in the ultraviolet (the wavelength for peak radiated power
   per unit wavelength was 335 Å). Absorption spectra of noble gases
   revealed a large number of previously unobserved resonances due to
   inner-shell and two-electron excitations, including doubly excited
   helium, which remains today a prime test bed for studying electron-
   electron correlations. These findings further stimulated the growing
   interest in synchrotron radiation. Establishment of SURF began the
   first generation of synchrotron-radiation facilities, sometimes also
   called parasitic facilities because the accelerators were built and
   usually operated primarily for high-energy or nuclear physics. However,
   the NBS synchrotron had outlived it usefulness for nuclear physics and
   was no longer used for this purpose.

   If SURF headed the first generation, it was not by much, as activity
   was also blossoming in both Europe and Asia. At the Frascati laboratory
   near Rome, researchers began measuring absorption in thin metal films
   using a 1.15-GeV synchrotron. In 1962, scientists in Tokyo formed the
   INS- SOR (Institute for Nuclear Studies-Synchrotron Orbital Radiation)
   group and by 1965 were making measurements of soft x-ray absorption
   spectra of solids using light from a 750-MeV synchrotron. The trend
   toward higher energy and shorter wavelengths took a big leap with the
   use of the 6-GeV Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron (DESY) in Hamburg,
   which began operating for both high-energy physics and synchrotron
   radiation in 1964. With synchrotron radiation available at wavelengths
   in the x-ray region down to 0.1 Å, experimenters at DESY were able to
   carefully check the spectral distribution against Schwinger's theory,
   as well as begin absorption measurements of metals and alkali halides
   and of photoemission in aluminum.

  E.    THE FIRST GENERATION: STORAGE RINGS

   While the number of synchrotrons with budding synchrotron-radiation
   facilities was growing, the next major advance was the development of
   electron storage rings, the basis for all of today's synchrotron
   sources. In the 1950s, the Midwest Universities Research Association
   (MURA) was formed to develop a proposal for a high-current accelerator
   for particle physics. As part of the project, Mills and Rowe designed a
   240-MeV storage ring, then a new idea, as a test bed for advanced
   accelerator concepts. Politics intervened, however, and the decision
   was made in 1963 to build a new high-energy accelerator in Illinois, a
   facility that became the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory. With
   this decision, MURA eventually dissolved, but in the meantime
   construction of the storage ring proceeded.

   Thanks to the rapidly swelling interest in synchrotron radiation for
   solid-state research that stimulated a 1965 study by the U. S. National
   Research Council documenting this promise, MURA agreed to alterations
   in the storage-ring vacuum chamber that would provide access to
   synchrotron radiation without interfering with the accelerator studies.
   With MURA's demise in 1967, funding for the original purpose of the
   storage ring also disappeared, but supported by the U. S. Air Force
   Office of Scientific Research, the University of Wisconsin took on the
   responsibility of completing the storage ring, known as Tantalus I, and
   operating it for synchrotron-radiation research. The first spectrum was
   measured in 1968. In subsequent years, improvements enabled Tantalus I
   to reach its peak performance, add a full complement of ten beamlines
   with monochromators, and become in many respects a model for today's
   multi-user synchrotron-radiation facilities.

   With Tantalus I, the superiority of the electron storage ring as a
   source of synchrotron radiation became evident. In a storage ring, the
   beam continuously circulates current at a fixed energy for periods up
   to many hours, whereas the synchrotron beam undergoes a repeated
   sequence of injection, acceleration, and extraction at rates up to 50
   Hz. Among the advantages stemming from this feature are a much higher
   "duty cycle" when the beam is available, higher beam currents and hence
   higher fluxes of radiation, a synchrotron-radiation spectrum that does
   not change with time, greater beam stability, and a reduced radiation
   hazard.

   A surge of interest in storage rings soon followed. In 1971,
   synchrotron-radiation work began on the 540-MeV ACO storage ring at the
   Orsay laboratory in France. With the help of the Wisconsin group, the
   NBS converted its synchrotron into a 250-MeV storage ring (SURF II) in
   1974. The same year the INS-SOR group (now part of the Institute for
   Solid State Physics) in Tokyo began commissioning a 300-MeV storage
   ring, generally considered the first machine designed from the start
   specifically for the production of synchrotron radiation. The first
   storage ring in the multi- GeV class to provide x rays to a large
   community of synchrotron-radiation users was the 2.5-GeV SPEAR ring at
   the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC), where a beamline with
   five experimental stations was added in 1974 under the auspices of the
   Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Project. Other large storage rings to
   which synchrotron-radiation capabilities were added early on include
   DORIS at the DESY laboratory, VEPP-3 at the Institute for Nuclear
   Physics in Novosibirsk, DCI at Orsay, and CESR at Cornell (the CHESS
   facility).

  F.    THE SECOND GENERATION: DEDICATED SOURCES

   The larger storage rings just cited were electron-positron
   colliding-beam machines that were operated to provide the highest
   possible collision rates without blowing up the beams, a condition that
   generally meant low beam currents. Moreover, while studying the
   then-fashionable J/? particle and its relatives, they often ran at low
   beam energies. Under these conditions, parasitic operation meant a
   severely limited output of synchrotron radiation, thereby motivating a
   clamor for storage rings designed for and dedicated to the production
   of synchrotron radiation. The Synchrotron Radiation Source (SRS) at the
   Daresbury Laboratory in the UK was the first fruit of this movement.
   Synchrotron-radiation research had begun at Daresbury around 1970 with
   the addition of a beamline to the 5-GeV NINA electron synchrotron. When
   NINA shut down in 1977, a plan was already approved to build a 2-GeV
   electron storage ring at the same site expressly for synchrotron
   radiation. Experiments began at the new facility in 1981.

   In the U. S., after a 1976 National Research Council study documented
   an increasing imbalance between demand for synchrotron radiation and
   its availability, construction of the National Synchrotron Light Source
   (NSLS) at the Brookhaven National Laboratory was approved. With
   construction completed in 1981, the NASALS complex included separate
   700-MeV and 2.5-GeV storage rings for production of UV and x rays,
   respectively. During this same period, the University of Wisconsin
   Synchrotron Radiation Center built a new 1-GeV storage ring named
   Aladdin, which replaced the old Tantalus I (part of which was later
   sent to the Smithsonian for eventual exhibit). In Japan, the Photon
   Factory was completed in 1982 at the KEK laboratory in Tsukuba. And in
   Berlin, the BESSY facility began serving users in 1982 with a 0.8-GeV
   storage ring. And at Orsay, LURE (Laboratoire pour l'Utilisation du
   Rayonnement Electromagnétique) began operating an 800-MeV storage ring,
   SuperACO, in 1984.

   Elsewhere, some of the first-generation facilities gradually evolved
   toward second-generation status by means of upgrades and agreements
   with laboratory managements to dedicate a fraction and sometimes all of
   the yearly machine operations to synchrotron radiation as the
   high-energy physics frontier advanced. The Stanford Synchrotron
   Radiation Laboratory at SLAC and HASYLAB (Hamburger
   Synchrotronstrahlungslabor) at DESY are prime examples. All of these
   second-generation facilities provide fine examples of the productivity
   of a dedicated source of synchrotron radiation. Over the years, for
   example, the SRS has grown to about 40 experimental stations serving
   around 4000 users from physics and biology to engineering, and the NSLS
   has around 80 operating beamlines and more than 2200 users each year.
   (By this time, the number of synchrotron-radiation facilities has grown
   too large to mention them all here; the reader should turn to Chapter 8
   for a list of current facilities and the spectral ranges they serve.)

   Major experimental developments included a major enhancement of
   photoemission for studying the electronic structure of solids and
   surfaces (for example, angle-resolved photoemission began at Tantalus),
   the development of extended x-ray absorption fine-structure
   spectroscopy (EXAFS) for the measurement of local atomic structure
   (which got its start at SSRL), and the extension of high-resolution
   protein crystallography to small, difficult to grow, or otherwise
   unstable samples (beginning with the work at SSRL and expanding rapidly
   to DESY, CHESS, and elsewhere).

  G.    BRIGHTNESS

   As the clamor for facilities dedicated to synchrotron radiation
   expanded in the 1970's, users increasingly appreciated that spectral
   brightness or brilliance (the flux per unit area of the radiation
   source per unit solid angle of the radiation cone per unit spectral
   bandwidth) was often more important than flux alone for many
   experiments. For example, since the photon beam is most often ribbon
   shaped with a larger horizontal than vertical size, typical
   spectroscopy experiments at synchrotron facilities use monochromators
   with horizontal slits. Because spectroscopy experiments achieve the
   highest spectral resolution when the slits are narrowed, obtaining a
   useful flux through the monochromator exit slits requires that the
   photon beam have a small vertical size and angular divergence so that
   most of the flux from the source can pass through the narrowed entrance
   slits and strike the dispersing element at nearly the same angle (i.e.,
   when the vertical brightness is high). Crystallography experiments,
   especially those with small crystals and large unit cells, also place a
   premium on brightness, since its is necessary to match the incident
   beam to the crystal size while maintaining sufficient angular
   resolution to resolve closely spaced diffraction spots.

   Brightness (flux density in phase space) is an invariant quantity in
   statistical mechanics, so that no optical technique can improve it. For
   example, focusing the beam to a smaller size necessarily increases the
   beam divergence, and vice-versa; apertures can help reduce beam size
   and divergence but only at the expense of flux. The cure therefore is
   proper design of the source, the electron beam in the storage ring. The
   size and divergence of the electron beam are determined by the
   storage-ring lattice—the arrangement and strengths of the dipole,
   quadrupole, and sextupole magnets. As planning of the NSLS progressed,
   Chasman and Green designed what has become the prototype lattice (a
   so-called double-bend achromat) for storage rings with a low emittance
   (product of beam size and divergence) and hence a light source with
   high brightness. The Chasman-Green lattice and variations are the basis
   for most of today's synchrotron sources.

  H.    INSERTION DEVICES

   Undulators provide a way to take maximum advantage of the intrinsic
   brightness of the synchrotron-radiation source. The magnetic structure
   of today's most common (planar) undulator is an array of closely spaced
   vertically oriented dipole magnets of alternating polarity. As the
   electron beam passes longitudinally through the array, it's trajectory
   oscillates in the horizontal plane. Owing to the relatively weak field,
   the radiation cones emitted at each bend in the trajectory overlap,
   giving rise to a constructive interference effect that results in one
   or a few spectrally narrow peaks (a fundamental and harmonics) in a
   beam that is highly collimated in both the horizontal and vertical
   directions; that is, the beam has a high spectral brightness (see
   Chapter 4). Tuning the wavelengths of the harmonics is by means of
   mechanically adjusting the vertical spacing (gap) between the pole
   tips.

   The undulator concept traces back to the 1947 theoretical work Ginzburg
   in the Soviet Union. Motz and coworkers experimentally verified the
   idea in 1953 by building an undulator and using it to produce radiation
   from the millimeter-wave to the visible range in experiments with a
   linear accelerator at Stanford University. The next step came in the
   1970's with the installation of undulators in storage rings at the
   Lebedev Institute in Moscow and the Tomsk Polytechnic Institute.
   Measurements at these laboratories began to provide the information
   needed for a comprehensive description of undulator radiation. Owing to
   the large number of closely spaced dipoles, electromagnets or
   superconducting magnets are not that best choice for undulators, which
   became practical devices for producing synchrotron radiation in storage
   rings in 1981 when Halbach at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and
   coworkers constructed a device based on permanent magnets and
   successfully tested it at SSRL. Parallel work was also under way in
   Novosibirsk.

                            [klaus-halbach86.jpg]

   Klaus Halbach shown in 1986 with Kwang-Je Kim discussing a model of an
                      undulator that Halbach designed.

   Wigglers are similar to undulators but generally have higher fields and
   fewer dipoles, with the result that they produce a continuous spectrum
   with a higher flux and a spectrum that extends to shorter wavelengths
   than bend magnets. Despite the similarity, wigglers evolved
   independently from undulators at the start. A decade after the initial
   suggestion by Robinson, a wiggler was installed in 1966 at the
   Cambridge Electron Accelerator (a 3-GeV storage ring that was actually
   the first multi-GeV storage ring to produce x rays before it was shut
   down in 1972) to enhance beam storage. In 1979, a wiggler comprising
   just seven electromagnet poles at SSRL was the first to be used for
   producing synchrotron radiation. Nowadays, wigglers may be
   permanent-magnet devices following the Halbach design or be based on
   high-field superconductors that shift the spectrum to the shortest
   wavelengths. Together, wigglers and undulators are called insertion
   devices because they are placed in one of the generally empty straight
   sections that connect the curved arcs of large storage rings, where the
   magnets that guide and focus the electron beam reside.

   The planar insertion devices just described produce radiation that is
   linearly polarized in the horizontal plane. However, a feature
   available from bend-magnet sources is the generation of elliptically
   polarized radiation, with the most obvious applications in the study of
   magnetic materials. The radiation from a bend magnet is elliptically
   polarized above and below the horizontal plane of the electron-beam
   orbit, and this feature has now been exploited at many facilities,
   including the pioneering work on magnetic materials in the hard x-ray
   region by Schütz and coworkers at HASYLAB (1987) and in the soft x-ray
   region by Chen and colleagues at the NSLS (1990). Now, among several
   designs for both wigglers and undulators that produce elliptically
   polarized synchrotron radiation, some have been implemented, tested,
   and are in regular use.

  I. THE THIRD GENERATION: OPTIMIZED FOR BRIGHTNESS

   Both undulators and wigglers have been retrofitted into older storage
   rings, and in some cases, the second-generation rings, such as those at
   the NSLS, were designed with the possibility of incorporating insertion
   devices. Nonetheless, even before the second-generation facilities were
   broken in, synchrotron users recognized that a new generation of
   storage rings with a still lower emittance and long straight sections
   for undulators would permit achieving even higher brightness and with
   it, a considerable degree of spatial coherence. Beneficiaries of high
   brightness would include those who need spatially resolved information,
   ranging from x-ray microscopy to spectromicroscopy (the combination of
   spectroscopy and microscopy) and those who need temporal resolution, as
   well as spectroscopists, crystallographers, and anyone who needs to
   collect higher resolution data faster.

   Construction of third-generation synchrotron-radiation facilities
   brings us to the present day. Following the NSLS two-ring model,
   third-generation facilities specialize in either short- wavelength
   (high-energy or hard) x rays or vacuum-ultraviolet and long-wavelength
   (low energy or soft) x rays. The range in between (intermediate-energy
   x rays) is accessible by both. The European Synchrotron Radiation
   Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble was the first of the third-generation hard
   x-ray sources to operate, coming on line for experiments by users with
   a 6-GeV storage ring and a partial complement of commissioned beamlines
   in 1994. The ESRF has been followed by the Advanced Photon Source at
   Argonne National Laboratory (7 GeV) in late 1996, and SPring-8 (8 GeV)
   in Harima Science Garden City in Japan in late 1997. These machines are
   physically large (850 to 1440 meters in circumference) with a
   capability for 30 or more insertion-device, and a comparable number of
   bend-magnet, beamlines.

   Among the long-wavelength sources, the Advanced Light Source at
   Berkeley (1.9 GeV) began its scientific program in early 1994, as did
   the Synchrotrone Trieste (2.0 GeV) in Italy, followed by the
   Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (1.3 GeV) in Hsinchu, Taiwan, and
   the Pohang Light Source (2.0 GeV) in Pohang, Korea. These physically
   smaller machines (120 to 280 meters in circumference) have fewer
   straight sections and therefore can service fewer insertion-device
   beamlines than the larger machines, but since they are also less
   expensive, many more of them have been and are being constructed around
   the world, from Canada in North America; to Brazil in South America; to
   Japan, China, Thailand, and India in Asia; and to Sweden, Germany,
   Switzerland, and other European countries, although in some cases,
   these are not truly third- generation machines in terms of performance.
   Addition of superconducting bend magnets to the storage-ring lattice in
   these smaller machines, as some facilities are planning to do, allows
   them to extend their spectral coverage to higher photon energies
   without sacrificing their performance at lower photon energies.

  J.    NEXT: THE FOURTH GENERATION

   The race to develop a new generation of synchrotron radiation sources
   with vastly enhanced performance has already begun, even as the
   third-generation facilities enter their prime, which takes us past the
   present into the future; namely, to the fourth generation. The
   candidate with the best scientific case for a fourth-generation source
   is the hard x-ray (wavelength less than 1Å) free- electron laser (FEL)
   based on a very long undulator in a high-energy electron linear
   accelerator. Such a device would have a peak brightness many orders of
   magnitude beyond that of the third- generation sources, as well as
   pulse lengths of 100 fs or shorter, and would be fully coherent.
   Research and development on the many technical challenges that must be
   overcome are well under way at many laboratories around the world. In
   the United States, effort is centering around the multi-institutional
   "Linac Coherent Light Source" proposal to use 15-GeV electrons from the
   SLAC linac as the source for a 1.5-Å FEL, which if successful would lay
   the foundation for a later sub-angstrom x-ray FEL. In Europe, HASYLAB
   at DESY is hosting the two-phase TTF-FEL project culminating in a
   device operating at 6.4 Å several years from now. The project would
   pave the way to a still more ambitious 0.1-Å FEL (TESLA-FEL) farther in
   the future.

  K.    BIBLIOGRAPHY

   The articles used in writing this history are recollections and reviews
   that contain references to the original sources.

   G. C. Baldwin, “Origin of Synchrotron Radiation,” Physics Today 28, No.
   1 (1975) 9.

   K. Codling, “Atomic and Molecular Physics Using Synchrotron
   Radiation—the Early Years,” J. Synch. Rad 4, Part 6 (1997) 316. Special
   issue devoted to the 50th anniversary of the observation of synchrotron
   radiation.

   S. Doniach, K. Hodgson, I. Lindau, P. Pianetta, and H. Winick, “Early
   Work with Synchrotron Radiation at Stanford,” J. Synch. Rad 4, Part 6
   (1997) 380. Special issue devoted to the 50th anniversary of the
   observation of synchrotron radiation.

   P. L. Hartman, “Early Experimental Work on Synchrotron Radiation,”
   Synchrotron Radiation News 1, No. 4 (1988) 28.

   E.-E. Koch, D. E. Eastman, and Y. Farges, “Synchrotron Radiation—A
   Powerful Tool in Science,” in Handbook on Synchrotron Radiation, Vol
   1a, E.-E. Koch, ed., North-Holland Publishing Company; Amsterdam, 1983,
   pp. 1-63.

   D. W. Kerst, comment on letter by Baldwin, Physics Today 28, No. 1
   (1975) 10.

   G. N. Kulipanov and A. N. Skrinksy, “Early Work on Synchrotron
   Radiation,” Synchrotron Radiation News 1, No. 3 (1988) 32.

   C. Kunz, “Introduction—Properties of Synchrotron Radiation,” in
   Synchrotron Radiation Techniques and Applications, C. Kunz, ed.,
   Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1979, pp. 1-23.

   K. R. Lea, “Highlights of Synchrotron Radiation,” Phys. Rep. (Phys.
   Lett. C) 43, No. 8 (1978) 337.

   S. R. Leone, “Report of the Basic Energy Sciences Advisory Committee
   Panel on Novel Coherent Light Sources,” U. S. Department of Energy,
   January 1999. Available on the World Wide Web at URL:
   http://www.er.doe.gov/production/bes/BESAC/ncls_rep.PDF.

   D. W. Lynch, “Tantalus, a 240 MeV Dedicated Source of Synchrotron
   Radiation, 1968-1986,” J. Synch. Rad 4, Part 6 (1997) 334. Special
   issue devoted to the 50th anniversary of the observation of synchrotron
   radiation.

   R. P. Madden, “Synchrotron Radiation and Applications,” in X-ray
   Spectroscopy, L. V. Azaroff, ed., McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York,
   1974, pp. 338-378.

   I. H. Munro, “Synchrotron Radiation Research in the UK,” J. Synch. Rad
   4, Part 6 (1997) 344. Special issue devoted to the 50th anniversary of
   the observation of synchrotron radiation.

   M. L. Perlman, E. M. Rowe, and R. E. Watson, “Synchrotron
   Radiation—Light Fantastic,” Physics Today 27, No.7 (1974) 30.

   H. C. Pollock, “The Discovery of Synchrotron Radiation,” Am J. Phys.
   51, No. 3 (1983) 278.

   E. Rowe, “Synchrotron Radiation: Facilities in the United States,
   Physics Today 34, No. 5 (1981) 28.

   T. Sasaki, “A Prospect and Retrospect—the Japanese Case,” J. Synch. Rad
   4, Part 6 (1997) 359. Special issue devoted to the 50th anniversary of
   the observation of synchrotron radiation.

   H. Winick, G. Brown, K. Halbach, and J. Harris, “Synchrotron Radiation:
   Wiggler and Undulator Magnets,” Physics Today 34, No. 5 (1981) 50.

   H. Winick and S. Doniach, “An Overview of Synchrotron Radiation
   Research,” in Synchrotron Radiation Research, H. Winick and S. Doniach,
   eds., Plenum Press, New York and London, 1980, pp. 1-10.
