http://jlarc.leg.wa.gov/Archive1-19-99/guide.pdf

   How do you know when an agency · Do these measures reflect how
   efficiently Legislative Guide has developed a good strategic your
   services are conducted? plan? to the Bottom Line · Is there agreement
   on key measures by Scan the strategic plan - Ask the participants,
   including the legislature? agency these questions . . . Implementing .
   . . about the mission, vision, · Are these measures cost-effective and
   feasible for you to collect? Key Definitions Performance-Based goals,
   and objectives Government · Do you think the average tax payer can ·
   Are you collecting the information now? understand the mission, vision,
   goals and If so, how are you using the information you collect?
   objectives of this agency? Performance- A budget which bases resource
   Based needs on quantified outcomes/ Legislative Initiatives · Can you
   provide an example of how the · How will the information help you
   Budgeting results expected from use of mission, vision, goals and
   objectives are make budget and policy recommendations? Management In
   1996, the legislature enacted ESSB the total allocation. As opposed
   logically connected in this plan? decisions? 6680 which mandated that
   agencies move to incremental budgeting toward a performance-based
   budgeting which focuses on justifying · Does this plan clearly identify
   the primary system. This requires agencies to changes from the historic
   purpose and activities of this agency? Are . . . about the link to
   conduct strategic planning to focus budget or to line-item input- the
   primary client or target groups performance budgeting efforts on
   results, and develop driven budgets. identified? performance measures
   that encourage monitoring of progress toward · How is your budget tied
   to your goals Typical Strategic Plan · Where does the plan identify the
   mandates achieving those results. and objectives? Can you identify the
   to support the agency s mission, vision, Components cost associated
   with achieving each Ultimately agencies will be able to goals and
   objectives? objective? Mission Defines the organization s provide the
   legislature with improved purpose. It should be concise, information
   for use in program policy . . . about the performance understandable,
   and consistent and resource allocation decisions. measures with the
   agency s statutory mandate. Implementing Performance- · Will these
   performance measures tell Based Budgeting you if the program is
   successful or making a difference? Give examples. Vision A statement of
   the What is an agency strategic organization s preferred plan? future.
   It should be idealistic, · Do these measures quantify your key A
   strategic plan is a long-term guide services and expected results? Is
   there motivating, directive, and a target level and a time frame for
   logically connected to the to the future that provides direction
   improving performance? mission. where an agency intends to go and
   directs choices for allocation of resources. 2 3 4 Olympia WA
   98504-0910 PO Box 40910 506 16th Avenue SE Joint Legislative Audit and
   Review Committee Major Broad themes for how an Performance Budget ê
   Strategies agency plans to accomplish Hypothetical Example Performance
   Measures its mission. (Alternate terms: "State Health Services
   Department" goals, strategic goals, objectives) Output Number of
   children Mission Measure immunized for pertussis in Washington State.
   On behalf of the people of the state, the State Goals Statements of
   purpose that Health Services Department assures the identify a desired
   result or Efficiency Cost per pertussis health of current and future
   generations outcome. They should be Measure immunization delivered.
   through education, assessment, intervention, realistic, achievable,
   directive, prevention, service delivery, and assignable, evaluative,
   and advancement of public policies. logically linked to the agency s
   Outcome Number of pertussis cases mission and statutory ê Measure
   reported per 100,000 children mandate. (Alternate terms: living in
   Washington State. Major Strategy objectives, strategic goals, common
   goals) (one of several) Legislative Agencies Promote Reduce the risk of
   communicable disease Implementation of Mandate through prevention.
   Objectives Steps toward a goal. They are specific and measurable ê The
   Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee (JLARC), the Legislative
   within a specified time period. Goal Transportation Committee (LTC),
   and They should be assignable, (one of several) the Legislative
   Evaluation and prioritized, time-phased, and Accountability Program
   Committee have resource estimates. The state will experience the lowest
   incidence (LEAP) are working together with other (Alternate terms:
   goals, action of preventable childhood diseases in the interested
   parties in state government to steps) nation. ê promote successful
   implementation of the mandated performance-based Performance
   Quantifiable indicators Objective Measures government system.
   reflecting progress in (one of several) achieving goal: For more
   information contact: By June 30, 1999, the incidence of pertussis ·
   Outcome Measure will be reduced to 1 case per 100,000 children Cheryle
   Broom, Legislative Auditor Results or service impact living in the
   state by: JLARC, (360) 786-5171 · Efficiency Measure Gene Schlatter,
   Budget Director Cost per service 1) Expanding the vaccination program
   in LTC, (360) 786-7311 targeted areas of the state; and · Output
   Measure Bob Fitchitt, Administrator Productivity or quantity 2)
   Streamlining the service delivery process. LEAP, (360) 753-5911 of
   service 5 6 3/6/97 7
