http://www.fdic.gov/consumers/consumer/news/cnfall01/

   Skip Global Header FDIC Global Navigation Links

   FDIC Consumer News - Fall 2001


   Special Report on FDIC Insurance
   Illustration of a scale with bags of money on it. The scale weighs if
   money is FDIC insured or not. This image is showing that the money
   being weighed is not insured.
   Special Report: Are You Sure You're Fully Insured?
   If your bank were to fail, would all your deposits be covered by the
   FDIC? Here's what you need to know and do to "insure" your money is
   safe.
   Related Articles
       Lessons from Losses: What You Can Learn from Recent Bank Failures
       Six Ways to Protect Yourself With FDIC Insurance
       If a Bank Fails: Answers to Common Questions About an Uncommon
       Event
       Deposit Insurance 101: A Final Exam
       For More Information About FDIC Insurance

   FDIC Consumer News is published by the
   Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

   Donald E. Powell
   Chairman

   Phil Battey
   Director
   Office of Public Affairs (OPA)

   Elizabeth Ford
   Assistant Director, OPA

   Jay Rosenstein
   Senior Writer-Editor, OPA

   Tommy Ballard
   Graphic Design & Illustrations

   FDIC Consumer News is produced by the Office of Public Affairs, in
   cooperation with other FDIC Divisions and Offices. It is intended to
   present information in a nontechnical way and is not intended to be a
   legal interpretation of FDIC regulations and policies. Mention of a
   product, service or company does not constitute an endorsement. This
   newsletter may be reprinted in whole or in part. Please credit material
   used to FDIC Consumer News.

   See other issues of FDIC Consumer News online.

   To receive e-mail notification of the new issues, with links to
   stories, write to listserv@peach.ease.lsoft.com
   and type "Subscribe FDIC-consumernews" (include the hyphen) and your
   name in the message area.

   Other consumer information on the Internet is available at the FDIC Web
   site
   Send comments, suggestions or questions to:
   Jay Rosenstein
   FDIC, 550 17th Street, NW
   Washington, DC 20429
   E-mail: jrosenstein@fdic.gov
   Fax: (202) 898-3870

   Subscriptions
   Subscriptions are available free of charge. Send subscription requests
   and address changes to:

   FDIC, Public Information Center
   801 17th Street, NW, Room 100
   Washington, DC 20434
   Phone: (800) 276-6003 or (202) 416-6940
   E-mail: publicinfo@fdic.gov
   Fax: (202) 416-2076


   Last Updated 11/23/2001 communications@fdic.gov

   Sitemap | Search | Help | Home
