http://corefinancial.ifmp.nasa.gov/FAQ/index.html

   [programoff.gif]
   [moduleoff.gif]
   [industryoff.gif] Investing in NASA's Future

   Schedule | Contact Us | Internal | CF Home
   [calendaroff.gif]

   Core menu

                       Frequently Asked Questions Gif
                         Frequently Asked Questions
   This is a collection of frequently asked questions (FAQ) and
   corresponding answers related to the Core Financial Project. The Core
   Financial Project Management Team has approved the answers to these
   questions. These answers are based on what is known today. They may
   change as the Project moves forward.

   If you require further clarification regarding the information found on
   this page, or would like to pose your own question (s) to the Project,
   click here.


     * Who will the Core Financial Project impact?
     * What is the scope of the Core Financial Project?
     * Why is NASA implementing the Core Financial Project?
     * When and where will the Core Financial Project be implemented?
     * What will happen to the Marshall Accounting and Resources Tracking
       System (MARTS) after implementation of the Core Financial Project?
     * What is SAP and, more specifically, SAP R/3?




   Q. Who will the Core Financial Project impact?

   A. The Core Financial Project will be implemented in all NASA Centers,
   giving NASA its first fully integrated financial management system.
   While some NASA employees--especially those working in the areas of
   finance and procurement--will be most directly impacted by the new Core
   Financial software and business processes, the improvements and
   efficiencies gained from the project will be seen throughout virtually
   the entire organization.
   Back to top


   Q. What is the scope of the Core Financial Project?

   A. The Core Financial Project is the backbone of the IFM Program. Other
   IFM Program projects will be integrated/interfaced with Core Financial,
   where applicable. The Core Financial Project scope includes: standard
   general ledger; accounts receivable; accounts payable; budget
   execution; purchasing; cost management; and general system management.
   Back to top


   Q. Why is NASA implementing the Core Financial Project?

   A. With the implementation of the Core Financial Project, NASA will
   have timelier, more consistent and reliable information for management
   decisions. It will also have improved accountability to enable full
   cost accounting. As well, the Core Financial Project and its use of SAP
   R/3 will help NASA achieve efficiencies and operate more effectively,
   thereby improving its information exchange with customers and
   stakeholders.
   Back to top


   Q. When and where will the Core Financial Project be implemented?

   A. The Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC), in Huntsville, AL, is the
   Agency's Pilot Center for the Core Financial Project. The Core
   Financial Project and SAP R/3 will be implemented at MSFC in June 2002.
   Following its successful pilot at Marshall, the roll out of the
   software to all other Centers will be complete by the end of Fiscal
   Year 2003.

   For further information on the implementation sequence of the Core
   Financial Project, see the Core Financial Project Agency Rollout
   Approach located on the Project Documents page of this website.
   Back to top


   Q. What will happen to the Marshall Accounting and Resources Tracking
   System (MARTS) after implementation of the Core Financial Project?

   A. Data currently residing in MARTS will be converted to support
   ongoing operations upon implementation of the SAP R/3 system.
   Historical data, not needed for ongoing operations, will be archived
   using an IFM Program standard archival strategy. Once the SAP R/3
   system is operational at MSFC, MARTS will be retired.

   Similarly, the accounting systems used at the other NASA Centers will
   eventually be retired after they each implement Core Financial. SAP R/3
   will become the standard, integrated accounting system used
   Agency-wide.
   Back to top


   Q. What is SAP and, more specifically, SAP R/3?

   A. SAP is both a company and a software package. Founded in 1972, SAP
   is the recognized leader in providing collaborative e-business
   solutions for all types of industries and for every major market. SAP
   is the world's largest inter-enterprise software company, and the
   world's third-largest independent software supplier overall. SAP R/3 is
   the third release of SAP's namesake software. To learn more about SAP
   and its offerings, visit its website at www.sap.com.
   Back to top


   Bottom Menu
