http://seafood.nmfs.noaa.gov/int'l.htm

                               [webbanner.gif]


            [client.gif] [InspecOfc.gif] [links.gif] [email.gif]

   [ApprovedFac.gif]   [Fees.gif]   [Publications.gif]   [Advertising.gif]
          [training.gif]   [consumer.gif]   [FAQ.gif]   [Intern.gif]
                    [InspecCon.gif]   [InspecRequest.gif]


                International Services for Foreign Processors

                                January 2000

     Foreign suppliers and U.S. importers must now comply with FDA's new
   HACCP regulations for fish and fishery products. Foreign producers will
     have responsibilities for product specifications, process controls
       (HACCP), training, and sanitary practices. It will be the U.S.
    importers' responsibility to verify that these requirements have been
                                    met.

      The Seafood Inspection Program is pleased to offer the following
     services in any location to meet these needs. Our technical experts
                      have programs for the following:
     * training in principles of auditing, HACCP or sensory analysis
     * on-site implementation and verification of HACCP-based process
       controls
     * third party verification activities for foreign processors

   Details for these services, including program costs, are available upon
    request and can tailored to your particular needs. Charges are based
    upon hourly fees which are publicly available. Currently the fees for
   these described services are US$73.21 per hour per person. Travel costs
    are extra. All inquiries should be forwarded to Dr. Kenneth Aadsen at
                             the above address.

         Three-Day HACCP Training Workshop for the Seafood Industry

    This workshop, which meets the requirements set by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration for HACCP training, is designed to demystify the
    basic principles of HACCP by effectively incorporating lectures with
   hands-on workshop activities. Participants learn practical application
    of HACCP principles by identifying hazards, critical control points,
    and the attendant control criteria for a model producer. Participants
                        will leave the workshop with:
     * an understanding of each of the seven internationally recognized
       principles of HACCP.
     * an understanding of the new FDA seafood safety HACCP regulations as
       they apply to exporters to the United States.
     * an understanding of how to develop a HACCP plan.
     * tools to develop, implement, and monitor and verify a HACCP plan in
       your own establishment.

    Course curriculum will follow the recommendations of the U.S. Seafood
   Alliance for basic food safety and the NOAA Seafood Inspection Program
    for additional quality management controls. Attendance will meet the
   mandatory training requirements of 21 CFR Part 123 issued December 18,
                                    1996.

        Consultative Services for HACCP or Quality Management System

   Our team of experts can assist you in the development, implementation,
   or verification of your HACCP program to accommodate not only mandatory
    seafood safety requirements, but also seafood quality characteristics
   (Quality Management System). This on-site service walks your HACCP team
   through the necessary steps to develop a plan specific to the products
     and processes, to facilitate the implementation of the plan, or to
                    verify an existing operational plan.

   Verification requires that at least one person be properly trained, as
   determined by passage of our test at the end of our 3-day training, or
   on site service, to monitor the HACCP plan at your facility. At the end
                     of this visit, your facility will:
     * be operating under a working HACCP plan, which may include
       different commodities
     * be verified, in an official statement from the U.S. Department of
       Commerce, as a facility that meets the mandatory requirements for
       seafood safety established by the U.S. Food and Drug
       Administration.

                   System Evaluation Consultative Services

   Originally designed for government entities, now also available to the
     private sector, our experts can provide training in the methods of
      quality auditing of food systems, a discipline widely used in the
    evaluation of HACCP and quality management systems of food production
    firms. Both formal classroom theory training with practical examples
   and field training to gather applied experience is included. The method
    employed is a train-the-trainer approach with support services after
     the training is completed. In this way, you may train a force to be
                  used in the development of your program.

                        General Terms and Conditions

   All estimated costs must be paid in advance by bank transfer, certified
    check, or money order (made payable to USDC/NOAA), charged to Master
   Card or VISA, or secured with a bond from a U.S. bank. Refunds will be
                        issued for any overpayments.

    Services can be provided if there are no travel restrictions to your
   country imposed by the U.S. Department of State, following our required
                     notification of the planned visit.

     "[O]btaining governmental or third party certification of foreign
     processor compliance...enables the importer to confirm that the
     foreign processor has an adequate HACCP plan..."

                      U.S. Food and Drug Administration


                         Seafood Inspection Program

                           1315 East-West Highway
                           Silver Spring, MD 20910
                             PHONE: 301-713-2355
                              FAX: 301-713-1081

                       E-mail: Kenneth.Aadsen@noaa.gov
                       Website:  seafood.nmfs.noaa.gov
