http://www.fast.sdc.gsa.gov/hardware.htm


   GSA Logo             Text graphic - US General Services Administration
            Text graphic - Federal Technology Service
            Text graphic - Heartland Region

                                                            spacer graphic


                                             Picture of the American flag
   Link to Region 6 FTS Homepage Link to IT Products and Services Link to
   Telecommunications Link to FAST Small Business Center Link to European
                                                            Business Unit
   Region 6 Homepage



   IT Products and Services

   Who We Are:
   Federal agencies seeking to acquire technology hardware, software and
   services can benefit from the GSA IT Solutions/FAST program. Our staff
   of skilled professionals specialize in IT acquisition and can locate
   the best value for your money and purchase your hardware, software, and
   services quickly.

   Our Procurement Process:
   Your GSA FAST representative acts as your personal shopper and uses
   existing GSA Schedule contracts, 8(a) Set Asides, and a host of other
   available Government-Wide Contracts (GWACs) to fulfill your technology
   acquisition needs.

   We use a web-based on-line procurement process, IT Solutions Shop
   (ITSS), in a real-time Internet environment. This allows you instant
   access, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to review your procurement
   status.

   ITSS is available to anyone with Internet access; no special software
   is needed on the individual's workstation. Click here to access IT
   Solutions Shop: http://it-solutions.gsa.gov/

   You have two options in how you place your order.

   1. Your personal GSA FAST representative can place your requirement
   order into our web-based tool (ITSS). For those short on time and not
   technically savvy, this is your best option.
   2. You may place your order directly on ITSS. (A client must register
   and the client's organization must also be registered on the system).

                              Getting Started:

                           The Value You Receive:

                                Key Contacts
   We need three documents and associated actions to get your requests in
   motion. (Electronic interchange of these materials will further
   expedite the process.)

   The documents are:
     * Bill of Material (BOM): A list of needed Hardware and/or Software
       items in an Excel spreadsheet submitted electronically.
       Sample BOM.
     * Statement of Work (SOW): A document describing the services
       needed.
       Sample SOW.
     * Memorandum of Understanding (MOU): A signed interagency Memorandum
       of Understanding.
       Sample MOU.
     * Funding Document

   We also require your approval for the items described in the BOM or SOW
   based on the price and availability proposed by an industry partner.

   If you have placed an order through the FAST program you can log in to
   check order status at http://it-solutions.gsa.gov/
   GSA adds the following value to your acquisition of IT Hardware and
   Software:
     * Provides consultation services in developing and locating your
       required items
     * Finds the best value for your requirement
     * Processes the order quickly
     * Accepts a variety of federal agency funding documents
     * Pays the industry partner invoices
     * Provides Contracting Expertise to fulfill requirements of the FAR
     * Assist you in assuring your IT requirements meet various federal
       compliance regulations such as Section 508 Handicap Accessibility
     * Manages vendor performance on your requirement


   Online Contracting Guidebook
   Kansas City FAST Representatives
     * Dept of Navy:
       Eldon Hershberger
       816-926-6762
     * Dept of Air Force:
       Bev Faitz
       816-823-3367
     * Dept of Army & Civilian:
       Terry Hunsperger
       816-926-1346
     * Europe:
       Paul Parker
       816-823-4874
     * Other Information
       Claire Allman
       816-823-2963

   TOLL FREE:
   United
   States  888-TRY-FAST
           (888-879-3278)
   Germany 0130-81-6210
   United
   Kingdom 0500-89-2604
   Japan   0031-13-2934
   South
   Korea   0038-13-0436
   What's New:

     June 21, 2001 Section 508 Compliance Statement
     All task/delivery/purchase orders that are signed on/after June 21,
     2001 must have the following statement on OR made a part of the Bill
     of Material/Statement of Work, and the resulting quote to be awarded
     must have indication of compliance with Section 508 (as in the para
     2 below). Failure of either of these, will result in the order not
     being signed and the project will be returned to the ITR/ATM.
     Therefore, all RFQ's from now on must have the below statement
     incorporated, and the quote must comply if the order is signed 6/21
     or after.

     All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through
     this Statement of Work/Bill of Materials and any resulting contract,
     task order, delivery order, or purchase order must meet the
     applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency
     exception to this requirement exists. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section
     508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable
     here.

     The contractor shall indicate for each line item in the schedule
     whether each product or service is compliant or noncompliant with
     the accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194. Further, the proposal
     must indicate where full details of compliance can be found (e.g.,
     vendor's website or other exact location).



       Region 6 Links: R6 Home | About KC | FTS Digest | Publications |
                       Downloads | Vendor Information
   National Links:  GSA National | FTS National | FirstGov | IT-Solutions
                      | SmallBizMall | Buyers.gov | SBA

   Cookies - Privacy and Security Policy - Site Map - Contact Us
