http://www.phila.gov/summary/humanrelations/index.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    City of Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia at Your Service Home Page Philadelphia
   Residents Page Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Visitors Page

[clearpixel.gif]

                                     Copyright© City of Philadelphia 2001  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
[clearpixel.gif]                                            [clearpixel.gif]
                 Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations

                 Mission
                 Established in 1951 under the City Charter, the Philadelphia Commission
   on Human Relations (PCHR) is the city agency that enforces civil rights
   laws and deals with all matters of intergroup conflict within the city.

   PCHR's Compliance Division enforces the Philadelphia Fair Practices
   Ordinance.  Discrimination is prohibited in employment, housing, public
   accommodations and the delivery of City services.  In employment it is
   illegal to discriminate on the bases of race, color, religion, national
   origin, ancestry, age over 40, sex, sexual orientation, disability, and
   marital status.  In housing the bases are race, color, religion,
   national origin, ancestry, any age, physical disability, sex, sexual
   orientation and marital status, the presence of children or an
   individual's source of income.  In public accommodations and the
   delivery of City services, the bases are the same as employment except
   age is not covered in public accommodations.

   PCHR's Community Relations Division deals with all matters of
   intergroup conflict within the city.  Building coalitions and forming
   alliances to help empower individuals and groups to work together in
   solving common problems or concerns, both at the neighborhood level and
   citywide, are the main roles of the Community Relations Division.
   PCHR's Disputes Resolution Program is a service that is offered by the
   agency's Community Relations Division.  The Disputes Resolution Program
   provides mediation, conciliation, counseling, and referral services to
   neighbors and others who have ongoing conflicts that have not escalated
   to a violent level.  In addition, the Community Relations Division
   provides education on diversity and intergroup relations in every
   neighborhood of the city.

   PCHR is also responsible for receiving and reviewing applications from
   same-sex couples who wish to register their relationship.  The couples
   if they choose, can receive a Certificate of Life Partnership. PCHR
   also provides staff for the Philadelphia Fair Housing Commission.

   Process
   PCHR has two locations.  The Commission's main office is located at 34
   S. 11th Street, 6th Floor. The Commission's North Philadelphia Field
   Office is located at 611 W. Lehigh Avenue.  The main telephone number
   for PCHR's Center City office is 215-686-4670 and the TTY number is
   215-686-3238.  The telephone number of the Commission's North
   Philadelphia Field Office is 215-685-9761 and the office fax number is
   215-685-9768.

   The Centralized Intake Unit is the first step for persons seeking
   assistance from PCHR.  Detailed client interviews, which are completely
   confidential, are conducted either in person or by phone. A Centralized
   Intake Unite staff member will carefully review a client's concern and
   refer to client to either the Commission's Compliance Division,
   Community Relations Division, or to a more appropriate public or public
   agency.

   Contact Information:
       Lazar H. Kleit, Executive Director
       email: lazar.kleit@phila.gov
       Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations
       34 S. 11th Street, 6th Floor
       Philadelphia, PA 19107
       Main Telephone: (215) 686-4670
       Centralized Intake Unit: (215) 686-4692
       TTY: (215) 686-3237
       Fax: (215) 686-4684
       North Philadelphia Field Office
       6th & Lehigh Avenues
       Philadelphia, PA 19133
       Main Telephone (215) 685-9761
       Fax: (215) 685-9768
       .
