http://www.crh.noaa.gov/lot/science/lkbracar.99w.htm

             Use of ACARS Data to Improve Lake Breeze Forecasts

      Kenneth M. Labas, National Weather Service, Chicago (Romeoville)
                                  Illinois

    Raymond W. Arritt and Christopher J. Anderson, Iowa State University,
                                  Ames Iowa

      (presented at the AMS Third Conference on Coastal Prediction, New
                             Orleans, Nov. 1999)

   1. INTRODUCTION

   A potentially significant forecast problem for northeast Illinois is
   the onset and movement inland of the lake breeze from Lake Michigan. A
   Cooperative Project between the National Weather Service (NWS) and Iowa
   State University has been funded by COMET (Cooperative Program for
   Meteorological Education and Training) to use a mesoscale model to help
   forecast and understand this phenomenon. A traditional data source for
   this model is the twice daily upper air sounding from Davenport (DVN)
   Iowa. Given the sensitivity of the lake breeze to the boundary layer
   wind field and distance of the data source from the lake shore we have
   begun to employ aircraft wind and temperature profiles from Chicagoland
   airports. It offers improvement in spatial and temporal relevance of
   the input and can lead to significant improvement in the forecast.

   2. PROJECT SUMMARY

   With a population of over 8 million people within the Chicago
   metropolitan area (including northwest Indiana) under the influence of
   the effects of Lake Michigan the understanding of the water induced
   lake breeze has a number of significant repercussions. In prior studies
   of the lake breeze in northeast Illinois by Lyons (1972, 1973, 1973,
   1976) the focus was on air pollution issues along with some
   climatology.

   Air pollution is still a concern but one of the motivations for this
   work was being able to use model simulation to anticipate wind shifts
   at O'Hare and Midway airports. O'Hare International Airport is the
   busiest in the world and wind shifts define runway use, impacting
   operations both locally and nationally. Investigation of the structure
   of the lake breeze was also a goal using model output as well as
   locally available data sources. We have also assembled a rough
   climatology of the phenomena through daily logging of data from
   selected observation sites in northeast Illinois.

   The advent of new technologies such as the WSR-88D (Doppler) radar
   afforded the opportunity to study, increase understanding and improve
   forecasts of this phenomena. The Chicago WSR-88D is located about 42km
   SW of the Lake Michigan shore. The location allows close monitoring of
   the lake breeze interface across most all of northeast Illinois and is
   an important verification tool for model forecasts.

   We have thus been able to incorporate both a local forecast need and
   improved observational tools to address an operationally significant
   problem for a major population base.

   3. MODEL CHARACTERISTICS

   In a previous COMET Cooperative Project we successfully implemented a
   high-resolution (8km) mesoscale model for the Lake Michigan lake breeze
   at the Chicago WFO. This numerical model, which is known by the acronym
   AMBLE, is a hydrostatic primitive-equation model with physical
   parameterizations including short-and long-wave radiative transfer,
   boundary layer turbulence (Yamada, 1983; Arritt and Physick, 1989), and
   shallow cumulus clouds (Wetzel, 1990). Land surface processes,
   including the influence of soil and vegetation, are represented using
   the Noilhan and Planton (1989) scheme which we have found to achieve a
   useful balance between physical realism and simplicity of use. Fluxes
   from water surfaces are computed using a representation given by Smith
   (1988), which is based on extensive data sets. The water surface
   temperature in the model may be specified to vary spatially, for
   example with warm water near the lake shore and cooler water elsewhere
   (see Arritt 1987 for illustrative examples).

   The simulations use a horizontal grid spacing of 8km and 14 vertical
   levels. The model has been installed on a Hewlett-Packard J200 Unix
   workstation at WFO Chicago where it requires about 75 minutes to
   execute a 12-hour forecast. The model code is written with strict
   adherence to the ANSI Fortran-77 standard, which ensures that the model
   can readily be transferred to any system with a Fortran compiler that
   is compliant with this standard.

   The main difference from models such as the NCEP Eta model and the MM5
   is that AMBLE uses a mesoscale perturbation form of the governing
   equations. The benefits of this approach are that the model runs about
   twice as fast and requires only a single vertical profile for
   initialization. The latter feature greatly simplifies procedures for
   ingesting new data sources such as the ACARS data. The main
   disadvantage is that the mesoscale perturbation approach cannot handle
   rapid variations in the synoptic background patterns.

   4. COMMENTS ON RESULTS USING TRADITIONAL RAOBS

   Input into this locally generated mesoscale model has been the 1200 UTC
   upper air sounding from Davenport Iowa. This site is about 205km west
   of the Lake Michigan shoreline. The distance can be a significant
   factor in accurately reflecting the boundary layer wind field leading
   to unrepresentative input.

   The lake breeze is a thermally driven event between the cooler lake and
   warm land which interacts with the ambient background wind. With the
   straight and curved shoreline of southern Lake Michigan the interaction
   between prevailing background wind and push of cool air inland results
   in highly variable orientations of the lake breeze front. This fact
   highlights the critical nature of initial data input, a point which
   ACARS data attempts to address.

   The ultimate intent of this project is to provide real time guidance
   using this model. Early in the project both 0000UTC and 1200UTC data
   were used (2 runs) which provided output for forecasts issued during
   predawn hours. The model output time frame is 700LT(local time) to
   1900LT although use of 1200 UTC data gave output around 900LT. About 75
   minutes of computational time is required to create this 12 hour
   forecast.

   Comparisons of results from each input time was highly variable
   reflecting the applicability of the wind regime to the day in question.
   In general the 1200UTC input time yielded more realistic results due to
   the relevance of the observation time. The fact that weather systems
   change more slowly during the summer months allowed the 0000 UTC data
   to be useful at all.

   5. NEED FOR ACARS

   Like all numerical simulations the quality of the output is highly
   dependent upon the quality of the input. This is even more the case in
   the present application because previous studies have shown that small
   differences in the background wind speed and direction can produce
   large changes in the inland penetration of the predicted lake breeze.
   Therefore the use of a data source to provide wind profiles closer in
   space and time to the target prediction gives the potential for
   significant improvements in forecast accuracy.

   ACARS (an acronym for the commercial system that transmits the data )
   is meteorological data* provided by many commercial aircraft during
   both enroute and ascent/descent modes of their flight (Mamrosh,
   1996,1998). We are using the ascent/descent phase in this work as it
   provides a detailed vertical profile of wind and temperature**. The
   intent is to use this data to determine whether improvements can be
   seen in the lake breeze forecast vs using data from DVN.

   Flights from O'Hare International (ORD) or Rockford Airport (RFD) are
   used. Both of these sites have ACARS profiles available during the late
   night and early morning hours. With ORD located 17km and RFD 108 km
   from the lake shore the proximity of both these sources is
   theoretically superior to DVN

   During the 1999 warm season comparison simulations were done on
   appropriate days using both data sets. An "appropriate" day was one
   where the 1200 UTC DVN wind profile below 700mb varied noticeably from
   that seen at ORD or RFD. In most cases wind direction was different due
   to the orientation or position of the synoptic system. A detailed DVN
   sounding was retrieved from the Forecast Systems Lab (FSL) web site.
   The wind field was then adjusted using ACARS data. Temperatures and
   heights were not.

   Those comparisons using ACARS data were generally no worse than those
   using the more remote DVN input and in some cases dramatically
   improved. Cases are illustrated below.

   *This data set can be viewed or accessed via the web through
   acweb.fsl.noaa.gov, government sites only

   ** Data provided by United Parcel Service originates at the surface and
   is the set used.

   6. MODEL FORECAST RESULTS AND COMPARISON CASES

   Over the past three seasons of work with this simulation, using a
   'distant' data source, a number of model characteristics and biases can
   be noted. Using positions primarily determined from radar signatures as
   verification for the lake breeze location the best results were under a
   weak (less than 10 kt) background northwest flow. This usually implied
   a surface ridge line just to the west near the Mississippi River. A
   northwest wind appeared to maximize definition of the interface at the
   same time reduce the west (offshore) component of the wind.

   Light west, southwest and southeast ambient wind flows also had good
   results on occasion. Often when the initial wind field is southwest it
   implies a surface ridge has passed and the gradient wind tends to
   increase during the day. This cannot be reflected in a static input and
   is a problem regardless of the data source.

   Frequently the lake breeze is forecast too inland, regardless of
   orientation. The model may not account for sufficient boundary layer
   friction, turbulent mixing or surface heating. In a southeast regime
   the breeze forecast is skewed inland north of downtown Chicago while
   remaining offshore south of the city. In reality there is often some
   penetration (up to 5 nm) inland south of the city while to the north
   the forecast does reflect the differential motion inland.

   Under an east or northeast background wind it is questionable whether a
   true lake breeze occurs at all. Once a westerly component is evident in
   the background flow a defined convergent interface can be seen in model
   output as well as radar returns.

   May 10, 1999: The 1200UTC DVN sounding initialized the model with a
   modestly strong southeast boundary layer wind of 5-8m/s increasing to
   12m/s or more above 600 meters. Using an O'Hare ACARS report from
   0928UTC wind below 600meters was veered from NE to SE at 5-8 m/s then
   become southwest 3-6m/s above that. On the base map O = O'Hare Int'l, M
   = Midway Arpt, L = NWS Office.

   Output at 1800LT reflects the full extent of the predicted lake breeze
   development. The DVN output places a lake breeze across the extreme
   northeast tip of Illinois, showing no penetration inland over much of
   the Illinois shoreline. A marked southeast flow continues over land.
   The orientation of the breeze front is obviously skewed by the strong
   background flow.

   The ORD based simulation is significantly different with a lake breeze
   now forecast well to the south and west of the shoreline. The wind
   directions near ORD and MDW have a northeast component which was the
   case in reality.

   The dashed line in the ORD output is the approximate location of the
   lake breeze at 1800LT. While the model output differences are apparent,
   the ORD input was still not aggressive enough in moving the lake breeze
   inland possibly reflecting an even weaker background wind during the
   day.

   July 13, 1999: A surface ridge line was in place between DVN and the
   lake shore and this was reflected in the 0700LT initialized wind field
   on the DVN run. In contrast ACARS data from O'Hare at 1221UTC reflected
   a slight northwest component and is seen in the initialized model
   field.

   Past experience with this simulation suggests that an ambient northwest
   flow is handled best of any background wind. In this case that was
   true.

   At 1600LT the DVN run indicated an elongated trough in the wind field
   just off shore but no indication of any onshore wind component over
   northeast Illinois.

   Output from the ORD ACARS painted a more realistic picture. By 1600LT a
   lake breeze was forecast inland just east of MDW (M) and to the
   vicinity of ORD (O). The actual location is denoted by the dashed line
   in the ORD image.

   The model was too aggressive in moving the breeze inland (compare
   forecast location with dashed verification line). Observations from
   both MDW and ORD indicated no wind shift to an easterly component ever
   occurred. Despite this the ACARS initialized forecast was far superior
   to that using DVN data. It reflected the true background wind in the
   vicinity of the lake shore and northeast Illinois.

   7. SUMMARY

   A mesoscale model with a domain across southern Lake Michigan and
   northeast Illinois was used to simulate the development of a lake
   breeze. This phenomenon affects the Chicago area in numerous ways
   including comfort, air pollution, convection and operations at major
   airports.

   Input to initialize the background wind for this simulation the 1200
   UTC upper air observation from Davenport Iowa is used. One of the
   drawbacks in this scheme is that input is a point observation at a
   given time. Another is that the data location is distant (205 km) from
   the area of concern. Conditions at this remote site may or may not
   reflect those actually present.

   With the availability of real time aircraft data from local airports
   through the ACARS system the ability to use a more relevant data source
   in both time and space exists.

   Using point source data for model input increases the need for the most
   accurate and timely data possible. The lake breeze is very sensitive to
   the background wind so any improvement in this area has a potentially
   large impact on results.

   Comparison studies have been done for specific events to determine the
   validity of using the ACARS data source. In some cases the results were
   dramatic. Two are documented in this article.

   The use of ACARS data is one step that can be taken to improve the
   performance of a locally run model. In many instances the differences
   in model output form the two data sources (ACARS and DVN) are nil. In
   isolated cases a bit worse.

   Nonetheless when weak synoptic patterns are present (which is often the
   case during the summer months) and there is a notable difference in
   boundary layer background winds across northern Illinois one would
   expect data with a better proximity to Lake Michigan to yield superior
   results. This appears to be true.

   Work will continue to formulate a procedure to ingest ACARS data into
   this model. Comparisons in specific cases are to be done to determine
   when the most favorable results may be expected. The value of this work
   will be realized when it is employed in an operational environment,
   using the best data source, to improve local forecasts.

   ACKNOWLEDGMENT

   This paper is funded under a cooperative agreement between the National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the University
   Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR). The views expressed herein
   are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the view of
   NOAA, it sub-agencies or UCAR.

   REFERENCES

   Arritt, R.W., 1987:The effects of water surface temperatures on lake
   breeze and thermal internal boundary layers. Bound.-Layer Meteor., 40,
   101-125.

   Arritt, R.W. and W.L. Physick, 1989:Formulation of the thermal internal
   boundary layer in a mesoscale model. II:Simulations with a Level-2.5
   turbulence closure. Bound.-Layer Meteor.,49,411-416.

   Lyons, W.A., 1972:The climatology and prediction of the Chicago lake
   breeze. Mo. Wea. Rev.,100,1259-1270.

   Lyons,W.A. and Olsson,L.E., 1973:Detailed mesometeorological studies of
   air pollution dispersion in the Chicago lake breeze. Mo. Wea.
   Rev.,101,387-403.

   Lyons, W.A.. and Cole, H.S., 1973:Fumigation and plume trapping on the
   shores of Lake Michigan during stable onshore flow. J. Appl.
   Meteor.,12, 494-510.

   Lyons, W.A.. and Cole, H.S., 1976:Photochemical oxidant transport:
   mesoscale lake breeze and synoptic scale aspects. J. of Appl. Meteor.,
   15, 733-743.

   Mamrosh, R. D., and K. M. Labas, 1996: Real-time monitoring and
   reconstruction of a severe thunderstorm environment using unique data
   sets; Central Region Technical Attachment, National Weather Service,
   No. 96-03, May 1996.

   Mamrosh, R.D., 1998: The use of high-frequency ACARS soundings in
   forecasting convective storms, Preprints, 16^th Conf. On Wea. Analysis
   and Fcstg, Amer. Meteor. Soc., Boston MA. 106-108.Noilhan, J and
   S.Planton, 1989:A simple parameterization of land surface processes for
   meteorological models. Mon. Wea.Rev.,117,536-549.

   Smith, S.D., 1988:Coefficients for sea surface wind stress, heat flux
   and wind profiles as a function of wind speed and temperature.
   J.Geophys. Res.,93,15467-15472.

   Wetzel,P.J., 1990:A simple parcel method for prediction of cumulus
   onset and area-averaged cloud amount over heterogeneous land surfaces.
   J.Appl.Meteor.,29,515-523.

   Yamada,T,1983:Simulations of nocturnal drainage flows by a q2l
   turbulence closure model. J.Atmos.Sci. 40, 91-106.

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   ----------------------------------------------

   KML 8/99
