http://icesat4.gsfc.nasa.gov/ia_home/aim.html

                            Arctic Ice Mapping (AIM)

                       Ice Altimetry Home | Main Page

   [aim_sat.gif]

Description

   The Greenland Airborne Precise Elevation Survey consists of a series of
   survey lines distributed over the large ice sheet that covers most of
   the interior of Greenland. The survey was made with the NASA Airborne
   Topo- graphic Mapper (ATM) and its predecessor, the Airborne
   Oceanographic Lidar (AOL), during field deployments conducted each year
   from 1991 to 1994. These sensors are pulsed laser altimeters which scan
   a laser beam over the ice surface beneath the aircraft with a nutating
   mirror, producing an elliptical sampling pattern. The off-nadir angle
   of the scan mirror was set to yield a swath of altimeter measurements
   approximately 140 m wide. The original data set is very large so two
   condensed files have been created, referred to as profiled and gridded
   data respectively. All elevations are above the WGS-84 ellipsoid.

   Profile Data - Elevations along the flight track at 25 m horizontal
   separ- ation obtained by averaging all measurements within a distance
   of 12.5 m from the flight path location using a 3 sigma edit to remove
   outliers. The standard deviation of the data to the profiled height and
   the number of observations used are also displayed.

   Gridded Data - Elevation gridded onto 25 X 25 m grid for the full swath
   width. The grid elevations are averages of all measurements within the
   grid square, which is uniquely defined on the same stereographic pro-
   jection used for satellite-radar altimetry data. This is a tangent
   polar stereographic projection where the plane of projection is located
   at the geographic North Pole and is normal to the earth's axis. The 25
   m interval is an average throughout Greenland and will vary by several
   cm depending on location. Thus, at locations where one laser flight
   track crosses another, data will be gridded into identical grid
   squares, facilitating intercom- parison. The standard deviation of the
   data to the gridded height and the number of observations used are also
   displayed.

   Available Data:

   Data from the 1991 and 1993 flights is available on-line via the GRAPES
   browser. Send Mail to guest@gdglas.gsfc.nasa.gov for more information

   Available Images:

     * example 3D grid profile
     * example profile

   [rainbow_line.gif]

                       Ice Altimetry Home | Main Page
