http://www.boc.ca.gov/RRCD.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   REVENUE RECOVERY AND COMPLIANCE BRANCH

   Introduction to RRCD
   More About RRCD
   Restitution Activities
   Restitution Order Garnishment Process
   RRCD Publications
   Collection Information
   10 Percent Rebate Program
   Restitution Questions & Answers
   Introduction to RRCD
   The Revenue Recovery and Compliance Division (RRCD) of the California
   Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board (board) conducts
   revenue enhancement and recovery activities on behalf of the
   Restitution Fund. RRCD created and maintains channels of communication
   between the Victims of Crime (VOC) Program and the judiciary, district
   attorneys, court administrators, and probation officers concerning
   restitution fines and restitution orders. The focus of this effort has
   been to collaboratively work with the criminal justice system to
   coordinate, communicate, and analyze the administration of criminal
   restitution fines and restitution orders on a statewide basis.
   Thank you for visiting the RRCD Home Page. Please take a few minutes to
   tell us about yourself, your organization, and what you think of our
   site. Your comments and suggestions will help us improve our site and
   let us know how we can better serve our users on the Web. For
   additional information, comments or suggestions, address your E-mail
   to: RRCD Mail.
   You may also write to us at:
   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Division
   P.O. Box 1348
   Sacramento, California 95812-1348
   Return to Top
   More About RRCD
   The mission of the Revenue Recovery and Compliance Division (RRCD) is
   to serve victims of crime in California by maintaining the integrity of
   the Restitution Fund (fund). The RRCD accomplishes this by tracking,
   monitoring and collecting monies owed to the fund, with specific
   emphasis on restitution fines and restitution orders imposed upon
   offenders.
   One of the critical factors in ensuring the financial success of the
   Victims of Crime (VOC) Program is the education of the criminal justice
   system concerning its responsibilities to the victim community,
   particularly with regard to the extremely complex area of the fine and
   penalty structure of both state and local government. This process
   involves personal meetings with each county's Presiding Judges,
   District Attorney, Chief Probation Officer, and Court Administrator; as
   well as training seminars, and mass-mail distribution of information.
   A further impetus for this effort comes from the realization that
   assisting victims involves more than just providing compensation for
   financial losses associated with a crime. While this obviously
   represents the most critical segment of the VOC Program, also of
   significant importance is the need to ensure, to the extent possible
   and consistent with the Board's role, that offenders are held
   accountable for their actions through payment of restitution to their
   respective victims or to the Board. This concept is also, in part, a
   means of ensuring sufficient funds are available so that the VOC
   Program can provide timely assistance to all victims.
   In its effort to facilitate this process, as well as the understanding
   and application of the restitution statutes, RRCD has been actively
   involved in simplifying and consolidating all statutes pertaining to
   restitution. One significant change, enacted August 3, 1995, involved
   parental liability for juvenile offenders. (Chapter 313, Statutes of
   1995 — Assembly Bill 817, Hoge).
   This legislation has allowed the parents or legal guardian of a
   juvenile offender to be held financially responsible, jointly and
   severally with the minor, for the restitution fine and order, and for
   the penalty imposed on the juvenile. The court can now also take into
   consideration the future earnings capacity of the parents' or
   guardian's when 'ability to pay' is at issue. (Welfare & Institutions
   (W&I) Code §§ 656, 659, and 700).
   Another significant change modified the Penal Code (PC) to further
   strengthen a victim's right to obtain and collect restitution order
   obligations. PC § 1214(b) now specifies that restitution fines and
   restitution orders are enforceable as civil judgments, with an infinite
   life.
   No longer are these judgements restricted to a ten-year enforcement
   period. Victims have been empowered with the ability to collect
   restitution order judgements long after the offender's parole or
   probationary period has ended. (Chapter 629, Statutes of 1996 — Senate
   Bill 1685, Kopp, and Chapter 1077, Statutes of 1996 — Assembly Bill
   2898, Bowler).
   In addition, various RRCD publications have been developed to provide
   guidance and information on restitution issues. The Restitution Guide
   provides direction regarding financial obligations. A newsletter,
   entitled "The Restitution Review" is published on a quarterly basis to
   provide updated information on the Board's funding, new laws pertaining
   to restitution, interest stories from the field, etc. Another brochure,
   "Financial Recovery Options (English, Spanish
   These are only a few of the publications distributed by RRCD. A
   complete Publication List is also available online for your review.
   Return to Top
   Restitution Activities
   Criminal Restitution Compacts
   Due to the positive impact the Criminal Restitution Compacts (CRC) have
   had in the District Attorney Offices in which the contracts were
   originally piloted, the Governors' Office has given full support to
   future expansion of the CRC statewide.
   In 1996, RRCD established contracts, known as Criminal Restitution
   Compacts, between RRCD and county District Attorney and Probation
   Departments. These compacts are designed to enhance the assessment and
   collection of restitution, as well as communicate with counties on the
   amount of payments made by the VOC Program on behalf of a victim.
   This project has proven to be successful in the following areas:
    a. Improve communication channels with county criminal justice
       personnel in order to inform them of VOC Program claims in a timely
       manner and to obtain the criminal disposition on each offender so
       that VOC Program staff can determine eligibility.
    b. Request the assessment of the proper amount of restitution fines,
       restitution orders and penalty assessments and monitor whether the
       counties order these obligations. If not ordered, check to see if
       the court cited compelling and extraordinary reasons in the court
       record, as required by the statutes. Utilize findings to educate
       counties that do not comply with the statutes.
    c. Provide information to the VOC Program about restitution collection
       so that program staff can better maintain claim payment records.
    d. Ensure that restitution payments to victims that have received VOC
       Program assistance are properly diverted to the Restitution Fund to
       reimburse the VOC Program for its payments.

   The CRC provide the necessary funding for the counties to employ a
   staff member to perform a variety of duties associated with criminal
   dispositions, tracking and collecting restitution, as well as education
   and training.
   It is clear that the CRC have provided definite benefits. Restitution
   fines (collection information) are being assessed more consistently and
   at higher levels, collection processes are being enhanced, and working
   relationships between various entities within the counties are better
   coordinated.
   On-Site Visits
   The RRCD has an ongoing outreach and educational program to the
   criminal justice community regarding the consistent imposition and
   collection of restitution. Since 1995, RRCD staff has met with judges,
   District Attorneys, Chief Probation Officers, Court Administrators, and
   Victim/Witness coordinators throughout California to discuss these
   issues. The success of this program is demonstrated by the continuing
   increase in restitution fine and order revenues received.
   Legislation
   Since Fiscal Year 1993-94, the enactment of several legislative
   measures, some of which were sponsored by the Board, have affected the
   statutory requirements of the VOC Program. The Board was successful in
   bringing about significant policy changes to its programs, thereby
   allowing the Board to reduce costs, streamline government operations,
   and enhance revenue collection. This legislation is further discussed
   in the Restitution Guide.
   Restitution Committee
   To maintain an ongoing dialogue between those organizations that impose
   and collect restitution, as well as those which assist victims in
   obtaining restitution, the Board has established a Restitution
   Committee composed of individuals from various organizations and
   professional associations.
   Through the sharing of valuable opinions and information, the
   committee:
    a. Identifies and discusses relevant issues involving restitution,
       California's overall fine/penalty system, and victim services in
       order to provide more efficient and effective restitution and
       victim services programs in the State of California.
    b. Develops and assesses alternatives for overcoming identified
       obstacles in imposing and collecting restitution fines and
       restitution orders in the current criminal justice system.
    c. Creates and implements means to improve working relationships with
       both the state and local criminal justice systems.

   RRCD is responsible for coordinating quarterly meetings of the
   committee.
   Governor's Restitution Award
   In 1997, Governor Pete Wilson established a new award, the Governor's
   Restitution Award, to recognize those individuals who excel in the
   areas of assessment and collection of restitution and enhancing
   services to crime victims through restitution. This award is held in
   conjunction with the Doris G. Tate Awards. Roy Hoffman, Senior Reserve
   Deputy Probation Officer for the Los Angeles County Probation
   Department was the first recipient of the newly established Governor's
   Restitution Award in 1997.
   The Second Annual Governor's Restitution Awards ceremony was held
   October 1998 in San Diego, CA. Governor Pete Wilson personally
   presented the 1998 Governor's Restitution Award to the following
   recipients:
     * Judge Curtis R. Hinman, Riverside County Superior Court and the
       Riverside County Financial Services Division
     * San Diego Deputy District Attorneys', Steven Gold, Michael Rivo and
       Richard Ostrow
     * Judge Stephen Ashworth, San Bernardino County Superior Court

   Liens
   A "lien" exists as a matter of law when benefits are paid to a victim
   under the VOC Program. Specifically, the Board asserts its lien rights
   in accordance with Government Code (GC) § 13966.01 et seq., which
   provides that the State is entitled to a lien on the judgment, award,
   or settlement in the amount of case payments on any recovery made by or
   on behalf of a victim to the extent of VOC Program benefits paid.
   The RRCD developed its collection procedures with the intent to pursue
   collection of all liens against civil and workers' compensation cases,
   to the extent there is sufficient recovery by the victim to satisfy the
   Board's lien. This philosophy is consistent with the RRCD's mission to
   ensure the integrity of the Restitution Fund.
   The Board asserts its lien rights over both civil suit and workers'
   compensation cases through GC § 13966.01 et seq. and Labor Code (LC)
   § 4903(h) . In civil suits, attorneys are required to notify the Board
   upon initiating and/or settling a case for, or on behalf of, a victim
   when the action is the result of a crime for which the VOC Program has
   paid benefits. This is to ensure that the Board has the opportunity to
   perfect its statutory lien.
   Attorneys who participate in the distribution of settlement proceeds
   without providing for payment of the Board's lien may be held liable
   for the loss to the state under a theory of conversion or constructive
   trust. In workers' compensation cases, the Board must be provided with
   written notification of its lien claim to parties before the case is
   settled in order to assert its legal rights directly through the
   Workers' Compensation Appeals Board.
   When the Board asserts its lien in a workers' compensation case, the
   Board will enforce its lien against any compensation to the victim,
   including temporary disability, permanent disability, medical payments,
   and the proceeds of a compromise and release settlement obtained by the
   injured worker. All benefits provided by the VOC Program are
   recoverable by the Board pursuant to LC § 4903(h) .
   The Board's intent in asserting its lien rights is to ensure that the
   VOC Program has an opportunity to recover monies that have been paid to
   victims who subsequently are reimbursed from another source. This
   allows the VOC Program to provide benefits to additional victims.
   When determining if a victim has enough of a recovery to satisfy the
   lien, the Board will begin with the gross recovery and subtract
   attorney fees and costs to determine the victim's net recovery. From
   the net recovery the Board will subtract any qualifying pecuniary
   losses or expenses not reimbursed by the VOC Program. If the remaining
   lien amount is sufficient to recover all or a portion of the Board's
   lien while allowing the victim a minimal recovery, the lien must be
   reimbursed. If not, the Board has the authority to reduce or waive its
   lien.
   The Board also has the ability to reduce or waive its lien when it is
   in the best interest of the state or to avoid undue hardship to the
   victim. Requests for waiver or reduction of a lien for these reasons
   must be supported by factual documentation.
   In evaluating for hardship, the Board will consider qualifying losses
   not reimbursed by the VOC Program, unusual expenses as a result of the
   crime, and whether there are other circumstances that would make
   recovery a hardship. The intent of the VOC Program is to compensate a
   victim for pecuniary losses, not to remunerate a victim for pain and
   suffering as a result of the crime.
   The RRCD prepared and distributed a brochure entitled Lien Recovery and
   the Victims of Crime Program. This brochure is currently undergoing
   revision and will be reposted once the revisions are complete.) This
   brochure was developed as an outreach tool to educate the legal
   community regarding the Board's lien. Over 87,000 copies have been
   distributed to attorneys throughout California.
   Contact RRCD for more information regarding the Board's lien processes,
   to obtain a current lien amount, or to order the lien recovery brochure
   via the Materials Request form.
   Overpayments
   Due to the nature of the statutes governing the VOC Program,
   overpayments will occur periodically. In making its eligibility
   determinations, the Board relies heavily on data from outside sources
   not bound by the same legally mandated time frames. As such, there are
   occasions where timely processing of a claim or expense takes priority
   over the possibility that additional information will be obtained, or
   another reimbursement source will be obtained at a future date.
   Government Code § 13969.3 provides statutory guidance to the VOC
   Program staff in pursuing overpayments. This code states in part:
   A person who has been overpaid or on whose behalf any provider or other
   person has been overpaid, under this chapter, is liable for that amount
   unless:
    a. The overpayment was not due to fraud, misrepresentation or willful
       nondisclosure on the part of the recipient.
    b. The overpayment was received without fault on the part of the
       recipient and its recovery would be against equity and good
       conscience.

   The collection process instituted by the RRCD includes a series of four
   letters notifying the overpaid party of the overpayment and options for
   repayment. If the overpaid party disputes the overpayment
   determination, RRCD affords them due process by allowing the
   opportunity to submit additional information to substantiate their
   dispute of the overpayment at any time during the collection process.
   The overpaid party has the option to repay the overpayment in lump sum,
   monthly payments, or offsetting additional expenses received during the
   collection process. If the overpaid party does not make any effort to
   repay the overpayment, RRCD submits the person's name to the Franchise
   Tax Board for tax refund offset.
   Return to Top
   Restitution Order Garnishment Process
   The California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board and the
   California Department of Corrections (CDC), are pleased to announce the
   implementation of a new program at CDC to collect restitution order
   monies on behalf of victims whose offenders are currently incarcerated
   in CDC institutions.
   In order to facilitate the collection and disbursement of restitution
   order monies, an application for collection and disbursement of direct
   orders of restitution must be completed by victims requesting
   collection of outstanding restitution order obligations from their
   respective offender(s). After completion, the form must be returned to
   CDC at the address printed on the application. Please note that CDC
   will only collect on restitution orders for those victims who have
   received court-imposed restitution orders with specified dollar amounts
   and whose offenders are currently incarcerated within CDC.
   As described in Penal Code § 2085.5, CDC will deduct 22% of all
   deposits made to the inmate's trust account while incarcerated. Of this
   amount, 20% will be credited against the balance owed to the victim,
   and transferred to the California Victim Compensation and Government
   Claims Board for disbursement. The remaining 2% will be retained by CDC
   for administrative costs.
   The application is not intended to be used in those instances when a
   victim wishes to obtain benefits through the Victims of Crime (VOC)
   Program. Conversely, the VOC Program application should not be used as
   a substitute for CDC's application when a victim is requesting the
   collection of direct order monies by CDC.
   For more information regarding the restitution order garnishment
   process, or to request additional applications, contact the California
   Department of Corrections, Office of Victims Services, at (888)
   562-5874 or (916) 358-2436.
   Return to Top
   RRCD Publications
   CDAA Victims' Rights Manual
   in conjunction with the California District Attorneys Association and
   the Institute for the Advancement of Criminal Justice, RRCD has
   collaborated in the development of a Victims' Rights Manual for
   distribution in Summer 1998 to all District Attorneys, prosecuting
   staff, as well as Victim Witness Centers in California.
   This manual was funded by the Board, with an entire section devoted to
   the issue of victim restitution.
   The Restitution Review
   In January 1994, RRCD initiated publication of a quarterly newsletter,
   "The Restitution Review," distributing it to all criminal justice
   agencies at both the state and local levels. This newsletter contains
   updated information on the VOC Program, restitution-related articles
   submitted by various criminal justice agencies, and updates on new laws
   affecting restitution. The newsletter also recognizes those individuals
   who have made significant contributions in the area of restitution.
   Important information: Contact RRCD if you are interested in having The
   Restitution Review mailed to you.
   Both current and back issues of The Restitution Review are available
   online.
   Restitution Guide
   Due to the relative complexity of the statutes regarding restitution
   (Penal Code § 1202.4 and Welfare and Institutions Code § 730.6), RRCD
   found that there is often a lack of understanding about the
   requirements of the law as it applies to restitution fines and
   restitution orders.
   In an attempt to facilitate the application of the statutes pertaining
   to this area, RRCD developed a Restitution Guide. This guide, which is
   written in an easy-to-understand format, is intended to clarify some of
   the most common misconceptions regarding restitution, and was designed
   after numerous meetings with various criminal justice personnel
   throughout California who expressed the need for reliable, timely, and
   relevant information concerning restitution.
   The Restitution Guide is but one tool in the Board's endeavor to
   provide focus and clarity concerning restitution so that the criminal
   justice and victims communities may work together to safeguard the
   restitution rights of victims and hold offenders accountable for their
   actions.
   Quick Reference Sheets
   Another reference tool, developed in response to requests from the
   judiciary, is the Quick Reference Sheets. This reference tool was
   designed to clarify restitution fines and restitution orders. The
   sheets, which are consistent with current law and available for both
   adult and juvenile offenders, briefly explain the fine structure for
   both felony and misdemeanor cases.
   Financial Recovery Options For Victims of Crime in California
   In July 1995, RRCD began distributing a brochure for victims entitled
   "Financial Recovery Options for Victims of Crime in California." This
   brochure identifies several ways in which a victim can recover from
   crime-related losses. Some of the options outlined in the brochure
   include: financial assistance from the Victims of Crime Program,
   restitution from the offender, and recovery from civil suit or workers'
   compensation settlements. This brochure is available in both English
   and Spanish editions.
   Updated! (November 27, 2000) Restitution Responsibilities in California
   and
   How to Enforce Your Restitution Order as a Civil Judgment
   are undergoing revision. They'll be reposted as soon as the revision is
   complete.
   CDC/CYA Collection Process
   As a result of interest expressed by the Restitution Committee, RRCD,
   in collaboration with the California Department of Corrections (CDC)
   and the Similarly, California Youth Authority (CYA), developed charts
   (CDC Chart, CYA Chart) detailing the restitution collection processes
   currently in use by those departments. The front of each chart provides
   a brief summary of the restitution collection process. On the back is a
   basic diagram outlining the same process.
   Return to Top
   Collection Information
   The California Department of Corrections (CDC) and the California Youth
   Authority (CYA) are instrumental in the collection of restitution
   revenue. Pursuant to Penal Code § 2085.5, CDC worked for over one year
   to develop a program to enable the department to deduct 20 percent of
   inmates' wages to pay outstanding restitution fines. The program was
   implemented in November 1992 with advisory support from RRCD. Since
   that time collections have increased from $637,774 in Fiscal Year
   1992-93 to nearly $5.8 million in Fiscal Year 1996-97.

                               CDC Collections

   Similarly, CYA has also played an important role in increasing
   Restitution Fund revenues and holding the offender population
   accountable. For the past three fiscal years, the Board has had an
   interagency agreement with Similarly, CYA to provide initial funding to
   assist Similarly, CYA in implementing a restitution program similar to
   the activities occurring within CDC. Similarly, CYA's program generated
   approximately $223,451 during its first year of operation (Fiscal Year
   1993-94). Collections have increased yearly, with revenue in Fiscal
   Year 1996-97 reported at $236,215.

                                  CYA Chart

   Return to Top
   10 Percent Rebate Program
   Legislation sponsored by the Board, enacted in September 1992, enables
   the Board to rebate to counties in the State of California 10 percent
   of all restitution fine and order monies remitted to the Restitution
   Fund within 45 days after collection. The intent of this legislation
   was to provide an incentive to the counties to collect restitution
   fines and restitution orders owed to the Fund.
   After implementing of the 10 Percent Rebate Program, the collection of
   restitution fines and restitution orders grew from $6.6 million in
   Fiscal Year (FY) 1993-94 to over $33.4 million in FY 1996-97.

                              Total Collections

   Rebates to the counties have increased from $1.9 million for the first
   two years, to $2.7 million in FY 1995-96, and $3.3 million in FY
   1996-97.

                               County Rebates

   Due to this incentive program as well as other outreach activities
   undertaken by RRCD, board staff has received overwhelmingly positive
   responses from the counties that assess and collect restitution fines
   and restitution orders.
   Return to Top
   Restitution Questions & Answers
   Some of the most frequently asked questions about restitution are
   listed below:
   Under what circumstances may the court reduce/waive a restitution
   order?
   A restitution order may be reduced and/or waived only if the court
   finds compelling and extraordinary reasons and states those reasons on
   the record. A defendant's inability to pay is not considered a
   compelling and extraordinary reason, nor is inability to pay to be
   considered in determining the amount of a restitution order. (PC
   § 1202.4(g)).
   An offender has been convicted of a felony, and the court is
   considering the imposition of a restitution fine. The offender tells
   the court that he has no money to pay a fine, he is not working, and he
   does not believe he can work in order to pay the fine. What are the
   factors that determine whether to impose the fine?
   PC § 1202.4(b)(1) requires a restitution fine of at least $200 and not
   more than $10,000 for a felony conviction, absent compelling and
   extraordinary reasons, as specified. Further, PC § 1202.4(c) states
   that the offender's inability to pay is a factor only in assessing the
   amount of a fine in excess of the minimum $200. Therefore, absent
   compelling and extraordinary reasons, a restitution fine of a least
   $200 is required, regardless of whether the offender has the ability to
   pay the fine. Finally, the court should state on the record the reasons
   for any fine waiver.
   How is the issue of restitution impacted when charges against a
   defendant are dismissed under a Harvey Waiver?
   Restitution may be imposed on dismissed counts if the plea is freely
   made, the court approves all conditions, and a Harvey Waiver is
   obtained. (People v. Beck (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 209, 215. See also, PC
   § 1192.3). Restitution orders are to be imposed based on the victim's
   losses, or benefits paid by the Victims of Crime Program.
   In one case, the defense attorney disputed the imposition of
   restitution for the victim, arguing that a restitution hearing was
   necessary to establish the need for restitution. The District Attorney
   objected, asserting the premise of the Harvey Waiver and disputing the
   defendant's definition of a "restitution hearing." The judge agreed
   with the District Attorney. The defendant was unwilling to accept
   responsibility for restitution, withdrew the plea, and the issue
   proceeded to trial.
   At the time of sentencing, a victim's losses are not yet known. How
   should the issue of assessing a restitution order be handled?
   According to PC § 1202.4(f), effective January 1, 1997 (as a result of
   Senate Bill 1685 (Kopp), Chapter 629, Statutes of 1996), in every case
   in which a victim has suffered economic loss as a result of the
   defendant's conduct, the court shall require that the defendant make
   restitution to the victim or victims in the amount established by court
   order, based on the amount of loss claimed by the victim or victims or
   any other showing to the court. In those cases when the amount of loss
   cannot be ascertained, the court shall order restitution with a
   provision that the amount "shall be determined."
   Can a restitution fine or order, imposed in juvenile proceedings, be
   collected from the offenders' parents?
   Yes. W&I Code § 730.7(a) states that a parent or guardian may be held
   jointly and severally liable with the minor. W&I Code § 730.7(b)(5)
   also has important information applicable to this answer. The
   parent/guardian has the burden of showing any lack of ability to pay,
   and the court may consider future earning capacity.
   What is the appropriate restitution fine structure for juvenile
   offenders?
   The basic restitution fine structure is:
     * Misdemeanor convictions are limited to a maximum of $100.
     * Felony convictions shall not be less than $100 and not more than
       $1,000.

   In setting the fine, the seriousness and gravity of the offense, as
   well as the extent to which others suffered losses as a result of the
   offense should be taken into consideration, thus ensuring that the fine
   assessed is commensurate with the crime. In addition, note that a
   separate hearing for establishing the fine is not required. (W&I Code
   § 730.6)
   A defendant, charged with a felony offense, has been placed on
   court-ordered diversion. Is restitution applicable in this case?
   In accordance with PC § 1001.90(b), the court shall impose a diversion
   restitution fee of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000. This
   fee is mandatory, except for persons whose cases are diverted pursuant
   to PC Chapter 2.8, Diversion of Mentally Retarded Defendants.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
