http://www.pswn.gov/about.htm


   PSWN Home
   [nav_space1.gif]
   About PSWN

   PSWN Program Origin
   PSWN Program Vision & Mission
   PSWN Program Strategic Plan
   What's New
   Events
   Library
   Newsroom
   Questionnaire
   Related Sites
   Contact Us
   [nav_space2.gif]

   ABOUT PSWN
   E veryone living within the United States expects government entities
   to respond, mitigate damage, and provide emergency assistance during
   disasters. Emergency workers are trained to respond to a NEED FOR
   CHANGE variety of events, such as natural and technological disasters,
   terrorist actions, and criminal activities, as well as to conduct other
   life-saving activities such as search and rescue operations. To be
   effective before, during, and after their response, public safety
   officials, throughout all levels of government, must be able to
   communicate with each other. Currently, federal, state, and local
   public safety entities compete for limited radio spectrum, have limited
   public safety budgets, and face challenges in keeping pace with
   advances in technology. Moreover, public safety officials operate
   separate tactical communications networks.

   For additional information about the PSWN Program choose the area of
   interest from the list below.

   PSWN Program Origin
   PSWN Vision and Mission
   PSWN Program Strategic Plan

     PSWN Program Origin
   As a result of President Clinton's reinventing government initiative,
   Vice President Gore released the National Performance Review (NPR)
   report in 1993, outlining actions for reengineering government. NPR
   Information Technology initiative 04 (IT04) called for the planning,
   development, and subsequent implementation of an intergovernmental
   wireless network. The vision for the network as described in IT04
   includes the nationwide development of interoperable systems for all
   types of public safety agencies at the local, state, and federal levels
   of government.

The Federal Law Enforcement Wireless Users Group (FLEWUG)

   The Federal Law Enforcement Wireless Users Group (FLEWUG) began as an
   ad hoc group of federal radio spectrum users that met to address the
   National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
   mandate for digital narrowbanding by 2005. In 1994, at direction of
   IT04, the Department of Justice and the Department of the Treasury
   executed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to formalize the FLEWUG as
   a mechanism to address interoperability and other challenges related to
   public safety communications. Among the FLEWUG's key concerns outlined
   in the MOU are common standards for land mobile radio (LMR) technology,
   improved interoperability among federal wireless systems, and
   mechanisms for achieving cost efficiencies.

The Public Safety Wireless Network (PSWN) Program

   In July 1994, the Government Information Technology Services (GITS)
   Board issued a memorandum directing the FLEWUG to coordinate the
   establishment of an intergovernmental wireless network. The FLEWUG
   formulated a management plan in 1995 to address the implementation and
   planning process for the national wireless network discussed in IT04.
   The plan, written not only for the federal user community, but also the
   state and local user community, proposed a methodology for exploring
   the options and alternatives available for providing spectrally
   efficient, interoperable, and cost-effective wireless communications
   capabilities for the public safety community. To implement their plan,
   the FLEWUG issued the PSWN Program Management and Organization document
   in 1996, which led to the creation of the PSWN Program. In 1997, the
   NPR reaffirmed the principles contained in IT04 as Action 06 (A06) in
   its report “Access America”. Access America was issued by the GITS
   Board as a status report on NPR initiatives.
     PSWN Origins Timeline To top of page

     PSWN Vision and Mission

A Shared Vision

   Seamless, coordinated, and integrated public safety communications for
   the safe, effective, and efficient protection of life and property.

   The vision of improved communications is shared with public safety
   organizations. These organizations include local, state, and federal
   agencies whose missions encompass the protection of life and property.

A Compelling Mission

   To plan for and foster interoperability among wireless networks that
   meets the requirements of local, state, and federal public safety
   organizations.

   The challenges are to make the public safety communications more
   effective, efficient, and cost effective.

To Achieve Interoperability

   Communications links that permit persons from two or more different
   public safety agencies to interact with one another and to exchange
   information according to a prescribed method in order to achieve
   predictable results.

   Improving interoperability and public safety communications as a whole
   is a multi-dimensional challenge. These dimensions are: spectrum,
   funding, technology, organization, and operations.

   To top of page

   GO TO PSWN Strategic Plan

   W e are pleased to present to you the Public Safety Wireless Network
   (PSWN) Program's Strategic Plan. This plan describes our vision – one
   that is shared with the public safety community – of seamless,
   coordinated, integrated communications to effectively protect lives and
   property. Our plan also describes the program goals and objectives, and
   the strategies we are employing to reach them. In short, our plan
   provides the framework for how the PSWN Program is working to improve
   public safety communications interoperability throughout the Nation.

                                                                    MORE >

   THE STRATEGIC PLAN
   VISION & MISSION
   GOALS & OBJECTIVES

                     EXTERNAL FACTORS
                     PROCESS STRATEGY
                     EXECUTION STRATEGY

                                       MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
                                       PROGRAM EVALUATION
                                       STRATEGY IN ACTION
   To top of page

       Call 1-800-565-PSWN         Last Updated: January 21, 2002
       The information contained on this web site does not constitute
       endorsement of any product, technology, or vendor.
