http://tccr.oar.noaa.gov/Meetings/10-23-95minutes.html

                 Technical Committee on Computing Resources
                             4th Annual Meeting
                            Oct 23rd, 24th, 1995
                            Princeton, New Jersey

   Present:
   Kevin Kelleher (NSSL),
       John Parker(ERL/OD),
       Rich Beeler (ETL),
       Gary Spalding(GLERL),
       Stan Wilkison(ARL),
       Walt Harrop(AL),
       Sandy Wine(NOAA/IRM),
       Bob Kidwell(NOAA/IRM),
       Don Mock(CDC),
       Joan Brundage(FSL),
       John Calder(ERL/OD),
       Paul Lu(PMEL),
       Chris Labbe(AOML),
       Larry Lewis(GFDL),
       Paul Quicker(PMEL/OAR),
       Joyce Harris(CMDL),
       Bruce Ross(GFDL),
       Jerry Malman(GFDL),
       Dave Lewis(SEC)

   Host's Comments
   Kevin greeted the group and Larry Lewis welcomed us to  GFDL.

   Introduction of Visitors
   Paul Quicker introduced himself. He is on loan from PMEL  to HQ and is
       setting up the OAR WWW page.
       Jerry Mahlman introduced himself and welcomed the group to  GFDL.
       He expressed his lab's interested in the TCCR and ERL  computing.
       Bruce Ross, the assistant director of GFDL was introduced.
       Cliff Schoenberger will tele-conference with us tomorrow  to
       discuss video conferencing.
       John Calder was introduced as the assistant director of  ERL and
       the interface to the CMAC.
       Bob Kidwell and Sandy Wine from the NOAA IRM office were
       introduced.

   Approval of Agenda
   Aspects of the agenda were discussed but no changes were  made.
       Minutes of the previous meeting were approved.

   Site Reports

   AL (Walt Harrop)
   Walt reviewed the AL's current computer systems. The  Aeronomy
       Laboratory maintains a distributed network of  computing systems to
       support its research programs. The  primary components are a
       SPARCcenter 2000 with 8 CPUs, 15  desktop UNIX workstations, 25
       PCS, 120 high-end Macintosh  systems, and the network components to
       tie them together. The  backbone is thin-wire 10MHz Ethernet and
       most segments off  this backbone are 10MHz 10BaseT on category 5
       copper twisted  pair lines. Our traffic load still doesn't warrant
       a move to  faster cabling yet. We still have a few segments that
       run on  shielded twisted pair Apple Local Talk lines that support
       only printers. We maintain a full-time leased 56K DDS line to  our
       Fritz Peak Observatory west of Boulder in the mountains  near
       Rollinsville and this is now all on underground fiber  except for
       the last one mile of copper. Getting most of this  line underground
       has drastically reduced down time and  maintenance costs due to
       snow loading and lightning hits. We  still setup remote temporary
       field measurement missions. This  allows our field researchers to
       appear to be in the Boulder  Aeronomy Laboratory LAN. All of our
       staff (100%) have e-mail  accounts with full SMTP/MIME Internet
       access using QuickMail  on PCS and Macs and various Unix SMTP or
       POP mail interfaces  on other machines. We maintain our own gateway
       to SMTP/MIME  and X.400. We maintain eight 14.4 modem channels each
       of  which offer both secure Telnet and Apple Remote Access (ARA)
       services  to users connect via dial-up phone lines. The ARA
       connections  include full TCP/IP Internet access for Macs. We have
       determined that V.34 modems are essentially useless over U.S.  West
       public telephone lines and do not intend to upgrade to  them. We
       almost have one ISDN dial-in line working after more than  one year
       of hassle with the telephone companies. We maintain  an anonymous
       FTP server. We provide SMTP/MIME, POP3, DNS,  NIS, and NIS+
       services. Our WWW server is not operational but  it will not be
       available on the net until about mid November.  The move to the
       al.noaa.gov domain is complete and the old  al.bldrdoc.gov domain
       and all aliases to it no longer exist.  We have replaced our old
       Cisco GIS routers with Cisco 4500s.  We have a full bastion
       firewall in place but do not have all  of it turned on as there is
       not current need for that level  of isolation. We do control where
       SMTP, WWW, NFS, FTP and  telnet connections can come into the local
       net. Because of  our geographical location we currently access the
       Internet  via the Boulder NIST backbone. Since NIST security is in
       the  process of implementing a very rigid full firewall for all of
       their network, we will probably be forced to move off of the  NIST
       backbone in the next year. Their firewall will not allow  our field
       networks and Appletalk tunnels to operate without  serious
       degradation and will make negotiation of the setup of  the field
       networks nearly impossible. We have already begun  preparations to
       move into 140.172.x.x and to bypass the NIST  backbone to join the
       Internet at the point where the campus  connects to MCI and NSI.
       The SPARCcenter 2000 has been very  cost effective at supporting
       our particular brand of  modeling. It has also served well to
       support our users who  have other near supercomputer problems on
       this system that were  the result of a low bidder situation onto a
       high-end Alpha  and that has also been very successful. Our most
       difficult  problem remains that of maintaining a high degree of
       cooperation, trust, and communications with our user  community.
       Since we attempt to support all 117 of our users  with a staff of
       two full time people and one half time  student, we absolutely must
       have the help and trust of all of  our research staff and our
       administrative staff in order to  be successful.

   ARL (Stan Wilkison)
   Stan described the structure of ARL, which is distributed  throughout
       the U.S. Because of the distributed nature of the  lab they are not
       using a standard naming convention. All  divisions are e-mail
       capable. SRRB has procured a DEC Alpha  to provide Internet
       services for this Boulder Division and  expects to link their http
       server to the OAR home page.

   AOML (Chris Labbe)
   The transition away from VMS to Unix is continuing. AOML  currently
       has:

     * 10 Unix Servers
     * 30 Unix Workstations
     * 7 Next Workstations
     * 28 X-terminals
     * 40 Macs
     * 68 PCs
     * Several VAX/VMS

   AOML is using Crays at the Air Force and Alaska  Facilities.

   The Lab is moving away from older graphics systems to  off-the-shelf
   software.

   There are four divisions in AOML. Information is available  through
   their home page (www.aoml.noaa.gov).

   University of Florida is providing Internet access for  AOML and others
   via 2 T1 lines. Remote sites are connected  via 56kps links.

   HPCC funding is providing support for better connections,  firewall,
   routing services and WWW server.

   CDC (Don Mock)
   Don described the CDC network topology. They have been  redistributing
       functionality across the laboratory.  X-terminals have been
       replacing Macs/PCS at user's desktops  to interface to larger
       Servers in CDC. This freed up a number  of Sun Workstations which
       were upgraded to Sparc 20s.

       An optical jukebox was purchased to store data and this  has worked
       out well. It was discovered that the cost of  magnetic disk was
       actually lower than the optical jukebox, so  CDC purchased 450
       Gbytes of magnetic disks. Backup of these  disks was a problem, but
       was solved by purchasing Exebyte  210T tape libraries.
       An IBM compatible 3490E was purchased for ingesting the  NMC
       re-analysis data. The Internet connection through CU is  not
       sufficient and a switch will be made to the NOAA network  soon.

   CMDL (Joyce Harris)
   Joyce gave an overview of the Lab. Their lab decreased in  size last
       year. CMDL is tracing their computer spending by  using the 2816
       object class and has noted a drop in spending  each year over the
       last 4 years.
       The computer distribution in CMDL is very diverse and  distributed.
       FY 95 accomplishments include a new Workstation  dedicated to FTP
       services and WWW, software has been upgraded  on two servers, web
       development is being worked on to provide  quicker and friendlier
       service, and more data acquisition is  being accomplished via the
       Internet.
       Plans are in place to install a new CMDL router and  upgrade
       workstations.
       Problems were encountered trying to obtain a version of  CA-DISSPLA
       graphics software that is compatible with the new  Solaris Fortran.
       Also a 5-gig disk under warranty from  Pacific Computer Expansions
       has not been repaired.

   ERL Headquarters (John Parker)
   John Parker gave an overview of the ERL headquarters  network. OAR/ERL
       headquarters have connected all their  workstations to the Internet
       via TCP/IP. They have also  installed a Sun Workstation for
       providing Internet services.  Modifications have been made to the
       ERL CISCO router to  connect to the Silver Springs FDDI backbone
       network. A  PowerMac has been procured for use of visitors who come
       to  Silver Spring.
       Headquarters continues to be primarily a Banyan network.  There are
       currently 8 Banyan servers. These have been  upgraded this year
       (Ethernet and memory) to provide better  service. Cubix hardware
       was purchased to provide remote  communications to the network.
       Netscape browser software was purchased  for Headquarters.
       Plans for FY 96 include the upgrade of 1/3 of the 486 PC  computers
       to 90 MHZ pentiums with larger monitors, disk and  tape upgrades to
       several of the Banyan servers, replacement  of Network Interface
       Cards (NIC) and upgrades to the current  Sun server system.
       Other projects planned for FY 96 include providing a  windows-based
       e-mail system, connecting ARL to the Internet,  migration from
       DRDOS to MSDOS, complete testing and user  access to the Cubix
       hardware, consideration of moving to  Windows NT, and
       implementation of switching hubs and fax  server.

   ETL (Rich Beeler)
   During FY 95 ETL purchased several new high-performance  workstations
       including a SGI PowerChallange and an IBM 39H.  These new systems
       will be added to the current arsenal to  improve modeling efforts
       in ETL. In addition, disk and memory  upgrades to a current DEC
       3000/500S and SGI Challenge L were  performed.
       The System Demonstration and Integration Division has  purchased a
       data management system including a Sun Sparc  1000, HP Optical
       Jukebox, high-speed RAID 5 caching disk  system, and Objectstore
       object oriented database. This system  will serve as the data
       management system for ETL and is being  tested with the current
       COPE experimental data.
       ETL is also implementing a 2 stage WWW server with the  information
       and administrative home pages located on a  high-performance
       Windows NT server that will interface with a  Microsoft SQL server
       to initially provide laboratory  information on personnel and
       publications. The second stage  is providing scientific data
       services via the data management  system described above.
       ETL is in the process of upgrading its Cisco AGS+ router  to a
       Cisco 7010 router. We have installed an eight-port  dial-up router
       to provide remote access to Internet users. In  addition, several
       ETL has expanded our network to include the  Boulder Atmospheric
       Observatory (BAO) field site (at 56kps)  and the ETL Erie Radar
       Site (at T1 speeds).
       ETL has completed the conversion to a Windows NT server,  Windows
       for Workgroups and Windows 95 PC-based network. The  conversion has
       gone smoothly and has greatly reduced PC  system problems.

   FSL (Joan Brundage)
   FSL acquisitions in FY95 included 58 HP workstations, 1  SGI
       workstations, 1 SGI server, 5 Sun workstations, 7  x-terminals, and
       6 PCS. Approximately $300K was spent on  networking equipment
       during the year.
       FSL has implemented a structured wiring system (FY 94),  routing
       equipment (FY 95), and planning for network software  maintenance
       (FY 96). Significant upgrades and milestones are  planned for FY 96
       including a data storage and retrieval  system, WFO advanced
       workstation, facility information and  control system and
       implementation of Solaris 2.3.

   GFDL (Larry Lewis)
   Larry gave an overview of the systems installed at GFDL  and their use.
       GFDL is heavily committed to the use of SGI  equipment and
       purchased 17 SGI Indigo2 workstations in FY 95.  During the year
       GFDL achieved a record number of user CPU  hours on their Cray
       Y-MP. A new 63-month contract was awarded  to Cray Research and a
       Cray C90 was delivered in August  delivering 6 times of performance
       of the Y-MP8. The  transition to the new Cray had only minor
       problems due to a  change in operating system.
       All SGI workstations were upgraded to IRIX 5.3, with one  of the
       new SGI workstations set up to be a compute server.
       An Ethernet-FDDI switching hub was purchased to support 3  older
       servers. Two color and 4 black/white laser printers were  purchased
       for network printers.
       FY 96 plans include dropping the Y-MP from maintenance and  using a
       time and materials maintenance approach, the delivery  of a Cray
       T90 system in April 1996, delivery of a Cray T3E  MPP system in
       August, purchase of additional SGI  workstations, and multiple
       network upgrades.

   GLERL (Gary Spalding)
   There continues to be controlled growth in GLERL. The 8  MicroVaxes are
       still being used, but are being ramped down.  Several Unix systems
       are on order including SGI and HP  workstations. Overall there is
       100 Gbytes of disks on all  systems and a 4mm DAT/DDS tape
       autochanger is used for  backups.
       GLERL provides backup DNS service for the Eastern Region.  The
       private disk packs have been converted to optical and  these have
       been placed online. T1 is being installed for  Internet service
       from Merit Network.

   NSSL (Kevin Kelleher)
   CSS made significant progress in networking, data  management, library
       automation, and migrating to open systems  architecture from the
       legacy VAX systems during FY 95.
       A Sun workstation was purchased to provide WWW HomePage  and DNS
       services. The NSSL WWW services currently run on the  lab's IBM
       data server and the University of Oklahoma provides  the host
       table. CSS will migrate both services to the new Sun  during the
       1st quarter FY 96.
       The incredible popularity of WWW browsers such as NetScape  and
       Mosaic resulted in a sharp increase in LAN traffic during  the past
       summer. Consequently, CSS installed a 10baseT,  switched Ethernet
       LAN to replace the existing coax Ethernet  facilities. As part of
       the migration from the legacy VAX  system, CSS installed the
       Windows-NT server to replace the  existing DEC VAX Pathworks
       system. The NOS integrates PC, Macintosh  and Unix platforms and
       provides additional remote access  capability to mobile users on
       travel and users accessing the  LAN from home.
       For the second year in a row, CSS personnel participated  in the
       data collection and data processing for the VORTEX-95.  CSS
       personnel played a critical role in the development of a
       computerized data collection system that was installed in  each
       field vehicle. Several CSS personnel also participated  directly in
       the data collection. The third and final year of  ESDIM funds
       allowed CSS to rescue the remaining "at risk"  NSSL Doppler Radar
       data. The CODIAC software package, which  provides a catalog for
       NSSL's data holdings, was populated  with VORTEX data. The NSSL
       data management strategy was integrated  with the SPC and data was
       shared between organizations.
       Automation of the NSSL library was enhanced with the  addition of
       the AMS conference proceedings on CD-ROM. The  associated software
       allows searches by author, title, date,  etc., from a PC in the
       library. At present, a catalog of all  NSSL holdings are online and
       available through the MOLLI software  systems. A catalog of all
       NOAA holdings are available via a  CD-ROM subscription service and
       associated software package  that resides on a library computer.
       The final phase of a multi-year plan to migrate from  legacy
       VAX/VMS systems to Unix-based, open systems  architecture was
       completed with the purchase of a high-end  CPU server. The
       state-of-the-art SGI PowerChallange  workstation will host large
       numerical models. Visualization of  3D model output was also
       improved with the purchase of AVS  software for the lab's
       general-use Indigo workstation.

   PMEL (Paul Lu)
   Paul gave an overview of the PMEL Computer and Network  System, which
       uses a FDDI backbone and a Ethernet Switch  providing 16 segments.
       Enhancements will be made to the  current LAN by adding another
       switch (LanPlex 2500). The new  switch has the capability of
       switching both Ethernet and FDDI,  and with IP routing. This will
       permit the creation of a 2nd  FDDI ring using one of the subnets in
       the 161.55 (NOAA West  Regional Network). (One of the problems that
       PMEL is facing  is the exhaustion of its 192.68.161. address
       space.) The  addition of another switch also provides an additional
       16 Ethernet  segments to help reduce the number of hosts per
       segment. The  new switch will also provide some level of failover
       capability should either of the switches fail. PMEL's  firewall
       router will also be upgraded from an old Cisco CGS/3  to a Cisco
       4500.
       Remote Access Servers were installed to allow dial-in  access to
       PMEL's LAN for Mac, PC, and workstation users at  remote sites.
       There are now four dial-in/out phone lines for  accessing the ARA
       server and six dial-in phone lines for the  SLIP remote access
       server at PMEL. Over 50 IP addresses with designated  usernames and
       passwords have been issued to enforce dial-in  security. Last month
       NOAA's CoastWatch program staff gave  demonstrations during a
       Remote Sensing Conference held in a  downtown hotel in Seattle, and
       used the local dialup phone  line to access the Internet through
       PMEL's remote access  server. The demonstrations thru the dial-up
       link to the  Internet were very successful. They also helped check
       out our  newly acquired V.34 modem which provides dialup access
       speed  of 28.8 Kb/s. The ISDN link implemented between a
       scientist's  workstation at home and the PMEL's LAN works out quite
       well.  In June, U.S.West announced a new charging structure for
       ISDN link,  which includes an option of a monthly flat rate of $63.
       (In  California, the Pacific Bell charges a monthly flat fee of
       $23 at the Bay area.)
       As for the central servers, a DEC Alpha workstation  running
       Digital Unix was installed to replace the WAN gateway  server, a
       MicroVAX. This system supports the following  services: Domain Name
       Server for pmel.noaa.gov domain, NTP  server for PMEL machines,
       HTTP server for PMEL Home Page, WAIS  server, Anonymous FTP, and
       remote access telnet gateway. A  Sun SPARCstation 20 Model 61 was
       installed with 224 MB of  memory for booting and serving about 30
       X-terminals. The  central Unix application server (SPARCserver
       1000) has also  been configured as a backup server for X-terminals
       to be  available during down-time of the SPARCstation 20/61. The
       $62K allocation from the ERL's Computer Initiative (NIST/ERL)
       funds was used to help with the purchase of PMEL modelers'  new
       compute server, an Alpha AXP Model 2100-4/275 with 2  processors
       (each processor is capable of 275 MHZ), 128 MB  memory and 9 Gbytes
       of disk storage. Because of the modeling  codes' large memory
       requirements, additional 512 MB memory  has been purchased using
       funds from the lab. PMEL modelers  still need about 1000 SU ($200K
       to be requested from the ERL  Computing Initiative (NIST/ERL)
       funds) of the Cray Y-MP at  the ARSC (Arctic Regional
       Supercomputing Center, the  University of Alaska at Fairbank,AK)
       for their modeling  computing requirements in FY96.
       One of the major activities during FY95 is to support the  rapid
       deployment of the World Wide Web (WWW) browsers  software at PMEL
       and the development, implementation, and  operation of the PMEL
       Home page. Consulting and training have  been provided to PMEL
       staff and scientists regarding the use  of web technology for
       project and individual scientific  purposes. Some of you are
       familiar with the development of the  TOGA-TAO, EPIC, Ferrat Web
       Pages at PMEL. A new EPIC Web Page  was developed for the CO2
       project. It is available for  researchers to access 'Bottle Data'
       with on-the-fly graphics  and data download
       (http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/epic/co2/select_cruise.html).  Besides
       helping with the Web Page development for the  scientific projects,
       the Computing and Network Services  Division (CNSD) has developed a
       prototype CNSD Home Page to  provide PMEL users on-line access to
       the computing and  network systems information and resources. A
       user request  form has also been provided on the Home Page for PMEL
       users  to easily submit their work order requests. In the past few
       years, CNSD staff was looking into tools like Lotus Notes for
       administrative functions such as internal information  exchange.
       Because of the cost and other issues, Paul and his  staff turned to
       Web Page instead. So CNSD staff has begun the  development and
       implementation of an internal CNSD Home Page  for improving data
       sharing and information flow in the  division. For instance, staff
       can fill out the on-line expense  form provided via the internal
       Home Page. (Paul called the  use of the Web Page for this purpose
       "the poor man's  Lotus Notes").
       PMEL continued to provide support for the ESDIM Concept
       Demonstration and the HPCC's NOAA West Regional Network  Projects,
       which include: I) adding organizations to the  campus network: NOAA
       Library LAN, Pacific Tide Group  (pactide.noaa.gov), Education
       Office, Pacific Hydrographic  Section (pachydro.noaa.gov), and PMC
       (pmc.noaa.gov), ii)  setting up a Network Operation Center, iii)
       beginning the implementation  of the campus network's migration to
       FDDI backbone, and iv)  developing and presenting a series of eight
       informal training sessions  at the NOAA WRC for NOAA West Network
       member technical staff.

   SEC (Dave Lewis)
   SEC continues to use the several computers purchased with  "Off the
       Cray and Cyber" funds. The HP 755  workstations are used
       extensively for execution of both the  Coupled Thermosphere
       Ionosphere Model (CTIM) and the new  extended version including a
       self-consistent plasmasphere (CTIP).  CTIM has been used to
       understand the seasonal response of the  mid-latitude upper
       atmosphere to geomagnetic storms. The  emphasis for CTIP is to
       address the coupling of dynamics,  plasma density, energetics, and
       electrodynamics at low and  equatorial latitudes. Much of this work
       has been published or  presented at international conferences, and
       will lead to  operationally useful products.
       The LAN upgrade addressed with the FY95 infrastructure  money is
       progressing. The hardware (Hubs, Connectors, Cable,  ...) has been
       purchased. Carpentry and cable-pulling is  imminent. The result
       will be a UTP-based switched Ethernet  replacing thin coax. The LAN
       supports all of our 146 heterogeneous  platforms - PC, Mac, HP,
       DEC, UNIX, QNX 4, NT, printers, etc.
       We are installing a "Networker" file backup  system comprising a
       100GB DAT "jukebox" and  software. This will provide automatic (but
       configurably selective)  file backup and user-initiated recovery
       for (potentially) all  computers on the LAN.
       We are extending our LAN to our field site (10 miles away)  using a
       pair of "Netblazer PN4" dial-in routers and  a dedicated phone
       line.
       Work continues in moving the operational Space Environment
       Services Systems from the old Data General MV10000 mainframe
       system to POSIX workstation platforms. Management has set
       September 30, 1996 as the "Drop Dead Date" for the  MV10000. The
       real time data management system (DMS) originally  on the MV10000
       is fully operational on two DEC5000 platforms.  The migration of
       data ingest and distribution applications  from QNX 2 to
       POSIX-compliant QNX 4 on networked PC's is  nearly complete.
       Two new HP workstations have been acquired. One  (HP-9000/K100,
       160MB Ram, 16GB Raid Tower) is the Research  Division's Data
       Analysis platform (SELRAS). The other  (HP-9000/J200, 64 MB Ram,
       16GB disk, ATM Internet connection)  is our "Outside User System".
       Although not a true  "firewall", it is on its own LAN segment and
       provides some separation between the Internet and the  operational
       database platforms.
       Our Web site now offers updating documents providing real  time
       Solar x-ray, Satellite Environment, and Wind/Swim data  plots.

       We are exploring the use of Web technology for  distributing
       internal documentation, using Interleaf's  Cyberleaf tools to
       convert documents and images (Interleaf,  WinWord, WP, ASCII, GIF,
       TIF, ...) to HTML format.
       Most of the Center's PCS are now networked, using  MicroSoft's
       Windows for Workgroups. Three Windows NT server  platforms support
       this network, providing e-Mail, SQL  database services, LASS
       access, and User Authentication. One  new server (dual Pentium) was
       acquired to replace the oldest  of the existing three. Another is
       contemplated (item 2c in  our FY96 proposal) to provide some of the
       "product  generation" functions being moved from the old MV10000.

   IRM Update (Bob Kidwell)

   Procurement Issues
   The current SCIWOC contract is nearing its end and $19.2M  has been
       spent to this point. The IRM office has been working  on SCIWOC II
       and proposals will be opened next week. SCIWOC  II will be supplied
       by 4 different 8A contractors. These four  were selected from a
       field of 10 vendors that made presentations  to a NOAA committee.
       The companies are Pulsar, McBride,  Sylvest and Data Procurement
       Corporation. The minimum  guaranteed to each vendor is $100K, with
       the maximum on the  contract of 20 million dollars. Orders will
       probably be  accepted in December.
       SEWP II is under way and will be a $2 Billion contract  with NOAA's
       portion being $75 million over three years. The  contract is
       expected to be signed in August 1996.
       Bob discussed a concept called "Virtual Computer  Store" that will
       provide computer equipment, with vendor  offerings being provided
       on-line. On-line orders would be  accepted. The IRM staff is
       proceeding to set up a store of  this type for NOAA.
       Orders can be placed on GSA contracts up to the maximum  limit for
       each individual contract. Individual contracts  should be checked
       to determine the maximum amount allowed for  each line item and
       order limit.

   Government Issues
   The Data Center Consolidation idea from GSA is dead.  Arguments were
       made by members of DOC to exclude scientific  research
       organizations from consolidation.
       A proposed change to the FIRMR has been made to exclude  purchases
       under $100K.
       The Cohen bill is being considered in congress.

   NOAA Issues
   Budget cuts are being considered for administrative  functions
       including the IRM staff and ASC functions. There  was considerable
       discussion of the possible cuts to the IRM  staff. The TCCR agreed
       that the function of the IRM staff was  critical to each lab's
       computer needs. The TCCR will issue a  memo to John Calder
       immediately to stress the need to not cut  the IRM staff.

   NIST/ERL Funding Proposals
   The proposals for NIST/ERL funding need to be submitted;  approximately
       $100K for this year. A one paragraph proposal  needs to be prepared
       by each lab for this years funding.
       A summary for last year's spending of $62K/lab and  proposals for
       next year's funding was discussed.

   Massively Parallel Processing (Joan Brundage)
   FSL is using MPP for high resolution modeling. In the next  decade
       requirements will increase to 150 Gflops sustained  performance and
       50 Gbytes of memory. MPP offers the best  price/performance, but
       are harder to program. The FSL  development of the Scalable
       Modeling System (SMS) is aiding computer  scientists in developing
       models on MPP systems. Its purpose  is to provide a high level
       message passing library for scalable  geophysical modeling.
       Several popular models have or are being ported to the FSL  Intel
       Paragon system including the CSU RAMS and MM5 models.

   NARB Networking Issues
   There was a discussion of the idea of a national IP  management
       structure. The Washington Region is looking for an  additional
       class B address for their region. They have  approached GFDL and
       FSL and asked for there class B  addresses. Both labs have
       initially refused.
       It was agreed that the impact of changing IP addresses  would be
       very great. Areas that would be affected are DNS,  NIS, IP-address
       specific reference, router changes, etc. FSL  estimates that if
       changes to their address space occurred it  would take 8 or more
       months to recover.
       The TCCR should follow up with Eric Davis (the ERL  representative
       to NARB) to keep us informed of the activities  of the NARB.
       Any proposal to reconfigure NOAA IP space should delineate  likely
       impacts and the estimated costs of these impacts. Such  a proposal
       should include sufficient resources to fully  implement these
       changes.

   ERL Internetworking Plan (Paul Lu)
   Paul reviewed the Plan with the TCCR. Corrections were  made to the
       Appendix A tables by several labs. Paul reported  that the major
       goal of revising the plan was to eliminate  redundancy. Kevin
       rewrote the executive summary to provide  clarity and specific
       recommendations. The Labs were  encouraged to submit any
       corrections to Paul and/or Kevin.

   HPCC Networking Issues
   The funding process for HPCC in FY 96 was discussed. The  HPCC network
       group is attempting to freeze regional funding  levels at the
       initial years distribution levels. This would  be contrary to the
       plan presented last year that outlying  regional site's needs would
       be addressed. There was a great  deal of discussion about this
       issue and the TCCR would like  to see a better rational for
       distribution of funding.
       Joan Brundage agreed to draft a TCCR position statement on  the
       HPCC funding distribution and NOAA NIC performance during  the past
       year. Walt Harrop will assist Joan.

   NWS Video Conferencing Session (Cliff Schoenberger)
   Cliff Schoenberger from the National Weather Service  joined our
       meeting via tele-conference to discuss NWS's  implementation of a
       National Weather Service Video  conferencing system. NWS currently
       has 17 systems installed  at 15 sites nationwide, including their
       regional centers. The  communications circuits are dial-up ISDN
       through the FTS 2000  system. They are currently using PictureTel
       systems and have standardized  on this system. It is possible to
       interface with non-standard  systems via bridges, but some
       functionality is lost. Cliff is  encouraging any new installations
       within NOAA to continue to  use the PictureTel system.
       The basic costs of installation for each site is $37K for
       equipment, $5K for installation and first year maintenance,  $1.7K
       per month connection costs in the continental U.S.
       The TCCR is going to test a two or three way link via this  system
       before the CMAC meeting and encourage CMAC members to  attend. It
       was determined that Boulder, Silver Spring and  Norman have systems
       installed at there sites. John Parker  will lead this effort and
       coordinate it from Silver Springs.
       The TCCR is considering the formulation of a video  conference
       proposal (which would be forwarded to the CMAC) to  use a portion
       of the $500K that has been set aside for  cross-ERL improvements
       for video conference equipment. The  essence of the proposal is for
       ERL to fund the installation  of video conference nodes in ERL
       locations that do not  currently have access to a NWS video
       conference hub, ie.,  PMEL, GFDL, and GLERL. All other labs have
       access to a NWS  video conference site. Cliff Schoenberger from NWS
       indicated  he does not anticipate a negative impact on the existing
       NWS  system (e.g., bandwidth limitations, etc.) by adding the
       additional nodes and encouraged ERL to proceed with the plan.

   ERL World Wide Web Issues
   Don Mock described current Web activities within NOAA and  discussed
       some of the oversight plans being developed. The  major question to
       be answered is "Who should be  responsible to verify the content of
       information that is  conceived in joint ventures of NOAA, ERL and
       other Government  offices, universities and other research groups?
       We reviewed  the summary of recommendations of the NOAA Internet
       Information Policy.
       The TCCR formed a four member Web Advisory Subcommittee  (WAS)
       whose purpose is to give feedback on the draft NOAA  Internet
       Information Policy and to make further  recommendations to ERL
       management. The initial members of the  Web working group are Don
       Mock (chair), Rich Beeler, Walt  Harrop and Stan Wilkison. Paul
       Quicker from ERL also  volunteered as an ex-efficio member. It was
       agreed that this working  group should hold "open" meetings to
       address ERL  Web issues.
       The WAS was directed (1) to review the draft NOAA Internet
       Information Policy and (2) make recommendations of possible  ERL
       wide policy before the lab directors meeting in January  1996.

   ERL Headquarters Issues
    1. John Calder addressed the TCCR on ERL headquarter's  computing and
       communication issues. The following issues  were discussed:
    2. ERL headquarters would like to be compatible with  functionality
       described in the ERL Internetworking Plan.  Discussion covered
       e-mail server hubs being installed at  Silver Spring and Seattle
       and telecommuting issues.
    3. ERL requires high performance access to the Internet,  both
       incoming and outgoing (routine performance tests and  comparison
       with other ERL sites).
    4. ERL desktop systems need to allow full access to network
       capabilities.
    5. Capable and reliable support is needed for installed  systems and
       software.
    6. Headquarters needs to be a full participant in ERL-wide  planning
       process.
    7. Headquarters recognizes their need to have an information
       coordinator and webmaster.
    8. Headquarters desires to move to new ERL and community  standards in
       a timely manner (e-mail via Internet, high  level languages (JAVA),
       searching services, etc). John  expressed a desire to rely on the
       TCCR members for  advice, services, etc.
       OAR Silver Springs has formed a committee (Computer  Systems
       Management Advisory Group (COMSYSMAG)) to address  local
       headquarters computer issues.
       Conclusion
        Kevin closed the meeting by thanking Larry Lewis for his
            hospitality. The next meeting will be held in Boulder in
            Nov/Dec 1996 and hosted by Joan Brundage of FSL.
       Suggestions for Next TCCR Meeting
        It was decided provide to provide written site reports  prior to
            the meeting and to limit the site reports at the  next meeting
            to 5 minutes with 5 minutes for questions. TCCR  members would
            be encouraged to send site reports in WP format  to the
            Vice-Chair to minimize retyping.
            Security seminar or talk from an expert.
            A one hour block of time will be set aside at the next
            meeting to discuss "hot" topics.
       ACTION ITEMS
        Members of the TCCR should submit comments or changes to  the ERL
            Internetworking Plan to Paul Lu or Kevin Kelleher by  November
            1, 1995.
            Members of the TCCR should submit a summary how they spent
            the $62K from last years computer funds and a proposal of how
            to spend the $62K-$100K for FY 96.
            Kevin will draft a memo in support of Bob Kidwell and his
            importance to ERL in the NOAA IRM function. This memo will be
            forwarded to John Calder.
            Paul Lu will contact Eric Davis (the ERL representative to
            the NARB) and request that he keep the TCCR members informed
            of NARB activities. We will also inform the NARB that any
            proposal to reconfigure NOAA IP space should delineate likely
            impacts and the estimated costs of these impacts. Such a
            proposal  should include sufficient resources to fully
            implement these  changes.
            Joan Brundage and Walt Harrop will draft a TCCR position
            statement on the HPCC funding distribution and NOAA NIC
            performance during the past year. This position statement
            will be forwarded through the chain-of-command by Kevin
            Kelleher (Chair of TCCR).
            Don Mock will convene the newly formed Web Advisory
            Subcommittee to review the NOAA "Internet Information  Policy"
            statement and return comments to the Policy Task  Group and
            make recommendations of possible ERL-wide policy  before the
            Lab Directors meeting in January 1996.
            The TCCR, through John Parker, will suggest to the ERL
            Director that a video conference demonstration/meeting
            between Maddox (NSSL), Rasmussen (HQ), and MacDonald (FSL) be
            arranged to test capabilities for ERL use.
            Kevin Kelleher will formulate a proposal for CMAC
            consideration to install three additional nodes to the NWS
            video conferencing network.
            Walt Harrop and Rich Beeler will relinquish their
            responsibilities on the TCCR Networking Subcommittee
            immediately following  the completion of the ERL
            Internetworking Plan (second draft)  to serve on the TCCR WWW
            Subcommittee for recommending policy  within ERL. The TCCR
            Chair will appoint replacements to serve  on the Networking
            Subcommittee. Don Mock will serve as chair  of the WWW
            Subcommittee. The committee will also include Stan Wilkison,
            Rich Beeler, Walt Harrop, and Paul Quicker (ex-efficio).
