http://fire.pppl.gov/japan_longterm_energy.pdf

   (English Translation by JAERI) Report on Long-Term Energy Supply and
   Demand and Feasibilities of Alternative Energy Sources June, 2000
   Contents Introduction 1 1. Survey on long-term energy supply and demand
   3 1-1. Factors affecting long-term energy supply and demand 3 1-2.
   Review on energy supply and demand scenarios 5 1-3. Fossil fuel
   resources 10 1-4. Global warming 12 1-5. Energy forms and technologies
   for energy conversion 13 1-6. Summary of energy supply and demand 15 2.
   Feasibilities of alternative energy sources 18 2-1. Nuclear energy
   (nuclear fission energy) 18 2-2. Renewable energy sources 20 2-3.
   Nuclear fusion 22 2-4. Summary of feasibilities of alternative energy
   sources 23 3. Conclusions 26 Appendix Research Committee on Long-Term
   Energy Supply and Demand and Feasibilities of Alternative Energy
   Sources 31 A.Members 31 B.Meetings convened 32 Introduction The Special
   Committee on the ITER Project was established under the auspices of the
   Atomic Energy Commission of Japan, with the aim of "considering the
   social and economic aspects of the ways in which Japan's ITER project
   should be advanced in order to facilitate wide-ranging investigation
   and deliberation on the subject, while foreseeing Japan's long-term
   role in the international community." The Committee examined not only
   the scientific and technological aspects, but also the various social
   implications of the project, and summarized the results in an Interim
   Report in early 1998. The Interim Report stated that "the Committee
   understands the great significance of Japan becoming the host country
   of the ITER Project," but on the other hand it stated that "through
   examination of problems, we identified subject areas requiring
   clarification in order for Japan to determine whether or not to become
   the host country," and presented six subject areas including: 1) Survey
   on long-term energy supply and demand; and 2) Feasibility study on
   alternative energy sources. The current report summarizes the
   investigation of the above two subjects. In conducting the
   investigation, we surveyed analytical results based on energy and
   environmental models that are currently used worldwide, as well as
   those based on the Integrated Assessment Model (IAM) for global
   warming. Based on that survey, we examined the 21st-century energy
   situation under energy resource limitations and environmental
   constraints, and attempted to assess the future roles of energy sources
   currently being developed, including nuclear fusion. We did not develop
   a new model that includes a special routine to assess nuclear fusion.
   Rather, while paying due attention to the point raised by the Committee
   in its Interim Report, i.e., "(scenarios) should be established, as
   broadly as possible to reflect potential situations, and without giving
   any preference to a particular industrial area or lifestyle based on a
   particular value judgement," we reviewed and presented scenarios
   without giving any preference to a particular value judgement so as to
   present a wide range of policy options while taking into account a
   broad range of potential social structures and life styles. The results
   of our investigation for the next 100 years indicate that, when a wide
   range of scenarios for the world is taken into account, options may not
   necessarily be limited to the ones in which renewables and nuclear
   fusion play important roles, and various scenarios may be feasible.
   Further, our investigation results indicate that the path to the
   practical use of alternative energy sources such as renewables and
   nuclear fusion will by no means be a smooth one. 1 It is hoped that
   this report can offer not only the basis for a discussion of the role
   of nuclear fusion, but also a starting point for considering energy
   sources in future years. 2 1. Survey on long-term energy supply and
   demand 1-1. Factors affecting long-term energy supply and demand
   Currently, various scenarios are being developed and circulated for
   long-term energy supply and demand studies that include consideration
   of the latter half of the 21st century. These scenarios typically
   consider population, economic growth, energy conservation,
   technological progress, resource constraints, environmental
   constraints, globalism and regionalism, international cooperation,
   social institutions (such as social welfare and education), industrial
   structure, and lifestyle, all of which are interrelated as defined by
   these scenarios. Scenarios indicate wide ranges of population figures,
   from those assuming modest growth from 6 billion at present to 7
   billion in 2100, to those assuming growth to 15 billion in 2100.
   However, intermediate estimates give figures around 10 billion. In
   terms of economic growth assumptions as well, scenarios range from a
   modest growth scenario assuming that the current GDP (real GDP in 1990
   prices) of US$30 trillion will grow to US$200 trillion in 2100, to a
   rapid growth scenario assuming that GDP will be more than US$300
   trillion in 2100. Region-specific investigation indicates that the
   north-south gap will be reduced under scenarios assuming rapid growth
   mainly in developing countries, whereas the gap will tend to expand
   under modest growth scenarios. In addition, economic development is
   related to population growth in that reduction in the north-south gap
   will bring about slower population growth through lower birth rates.
   Views on energy conservation range from modest ones assuming an annual
   average energy intensity improvement of 0.8%, to a positive one
   assuming about 1.4% in improvement. Needless to say, energy
   conservation is closely related to technological progress,
   environmental constraints, industrial structure, and lifestyle. Views
   on technological development range from high to moderate, but the
   energy types on which technological development emphasis is placed will
   have a major influence on which energy sources predominate in the
   future. Further, from the viewpoint of global warming, innovative
   zero-CO2 emission technologies and CO2 recovery technologies are
   particularly important. The general view on resource constraints is
   that there will be some leeway in fossil fuels even 3 looking ahead to
   the year 2100, if we include unconventional oil (for example, oil sand
   and heavy oil) and gas resources (for example, coal bed methane and
   tight sand gas). On dealing with environmental constraints, some
   scenarios assume the introduction of carbon taxes, some assume
   introduction of total CO2 emission load control or CO2 concentration
   control, and still others assume transformation into environmentally
   conscious societies. Implementing these measures will bring about a
   shift from fossil fuels to non fossil fuels. In the area of social
   institutions (such as social welfare and education), there are
   scenarios assuming that improvements in social welfare and education
   will affect population through lower death and birth rates, and that
   improvement in education will raise environmental consciousness. One of
   the scenarios' implications on changes in industrial structure is that
   advances in information technology and aggressive transfer of such
   technology from the developed to the developing countries will
   eventually bring about energy conservation. If developing countries
   succeed in economic development and thereby achieve industrialization,
   energy efficiency, and lifestyles similar to those enjoyed by today's
   developed countries, it will help control world population growth, and
   also help stabilize energy demand. There are basically two ways of
   looking at lifestyle, one being the traditional way of thinking, which
   stresses the pursuit of material affluence and economic growth, and the
   other being the opposite orientation, which tries to preserve the
   environment on the global and the regional levels. The former conjures
   up a world where the material affluence and lifestyle enjoyed by
   today's developed countries will be pursued in the developing countries
   as well. The latter conjures up a world where saving energy (such as
   diligently turning off switches when lighting is not required) and
   recycling activities progress around the world, aiming at the
   attainment of a zero-emission and recycling- oriented society, and/or a
   society making intensive use of air pollution control and facilities to
   mitigate the greenhouse effect. There are two orientations on globalism
   and regionalism, i.e., one being the extrapolation of the current
   trend, which assumes further economic globalization and cultural
   homogenization, and the other being the opposite, which respects
   region-specific cultures and protects regional economies through the
   formation of bloc economies. Under the former globalism scenario,
   economic activities and resource utilization will become more
   efficient, and technological development will advance, while under the
   latter regionalism scenario, different regions coexist while regional
   equity, identity, and self-determination will be respected.
   Incidentally, the former has a tendency to bring 4 about higher
   economic growth and technological progress. International cooperation
   scenarios include those that assume active transfer of technology and
   income, which achieves progress in energy conservation and
   environmental policy measures in developing countries as well. 1-2.
   Review on energy supply and demand scenarios Here we briefly review
   three representative scenario studies on world energy supply and demand
   for the ultra long-term future: * Global Energy Perspectives, developed
   by the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) and
   the World Energy Council (WEC), 1998. * Special Report on Emissions
   Scenarios, developed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
   (IPCC), 2000. * Technologies Mitigations Scenarios, under the "New
   Earth Plan" by Research Institute of Innovative Technology for the
   Earth (RITE), Kyoto, Japan, 1998. 1) Global Energy Perspectives,
   developed by IIASA and WEC Global Energy Perspectives by IIASA and WEC
   analyzes three cases: the high growth, middle course, and ecologically
   driven, each of which is based on different views in terms of economic
   growth, technological progress, environmental constraints, and
   international cooperation. In the high-growth case, which assumes high
   economic growth and impressive technological improvements, primary
   energy demand will grow from the current 9 Gtoe (giga [billion = (109)]
   tons oil equivalent) to 45 Gtoe in 2100. Based on the idea that the
   energy type on which technological development emphasis is placed will
   determine the predominant energy source of the future, this case
   includes three scenarios: (A1) a scenario assuming the dominance of oil
   and gas will continue; (A2) a scenario assuming a return to coal; and
   (A3) a scenario assuming large increases in nuclear and renewables. CO2
   emissions under scenario A1 (oil and gas dominance) and scenario A2
   (return to coal) will increase from the current 6 GtC (giga tons
   carbon) to 14 GtC and 20 GtC, respectively, whereas emissions under the
   "bio-nuc" A3 scenario will be about 6 GtC, equivalent to the current
   level. In the ecological case, primary energy demand in 2100 will be
   less than half of the high-growth case figure due to progress in energy
   conservation. Further, the introduction of environmental taxes and 5
   CO2 emission control measures will shift the energy supply mix toward
   non-fossil fuels, and CO2 emissions will decrease to 2 GtC, one-third
   of today's level. However, many experts point out that this case is not
   realistic. Under the middle-course case, which is presumably the most
   pragmatic, primary energy demand in 2100 will be approximately 35 Gtoe,
   and CO2 emissions will be 11 GtC. This case will not bring about a
   radical shift toward a particular energy source, and fossil fuels will
   continue to dominate. While there is one scenario under which nuclear
   energy will be phased out due to a lack of public acceptance and/or
   requests for downsizing and dispersing energy supply systems (this is
   one of the scenarios included in the ecologically-driven case), all the
   other scenarios call for a nuclear share in the range of 16 to 25% in
   2100. As the foregoing shows, there is a variety of future primary
   energy mixes, but as far as final energy consumption is concerned, all
   the cases and scenarios assume that more convenient and cleaner energy
   forms will become more widespread, and that the proportion of solid
   energy forms will decline. In terms of energy transportation or
   distribution systems, the proportion of energy delivered through
   networks, such as electricity and gas, will increase. Meanwhile, gas,
   methanol, and hydrogen will account for more combustion energy. 2)
   Special Report on Emissions Scenarios, developed by IPCC After
   reviewing a vast number of scenarios, the IPCC report presents four
   different representative scenario families. Basically, there are two
   criteria distinguishing images of the future. The first criterion is
   whether or not environmental protection and social institution-building
   such as education, welfare, and the like will be intensified, and
   scenario families with prefixes A and B are classified along this line.
   The second criterion is whether regional differences will converge
   (globalism) or be preserved (regionalism); scenario families with
   suffix 1 represent globalism and those with suffix 2 represent
   regionalism. Thus, the IPCC study analyzes the future based on these
   four scenario families: A1 scenario family: Rapid economic growth
   scenario Under the A1 scenario family, globalization will bring about
   rather high economic growth mainly in the developing countries, and
   extensive technological innovation. The average annual economic growth
   rate over the past 100 years (3% per year) is assumed to 6 continue for
   another 100 years, and world average per capita income in 2050 will
   exceed US$20,000. Phenomenal economic growth in developing countries
   will help rapidly narrow the North-South gap. This rapid economic
   growth in developing countries will lower their birth rates, bringing
   the world population down from 9 billion in 2050 to 7 billion in 2100.
   Rapid economic expansion will require vast energy sources, which will
   accelerate investments in resource exploitation and new energy
   development. Eating habits in developing countries will shift towards a
   preference for meat, which will bring about a shift towards intensive
   agriculture. Technological transfer from developed to developing
   countries will also be intensified, accelerating technological
   innovation and automobile ownership in developing countries. Solving
   environmental problems will rely greatly on market-oriented approaches,
   and the emphasis will be on environmental control and creation of
   environmentally benign technologies, rather than environmental
   conservation. This scenario family is classified into three groups,
   each representing a different alternative for technological innovation
   in energy systems: the scenario group in which clean coal technology
   and oil/gas-related technological innovation are extraordinary (A1F1);
   the scenario group assuming rapid technological innovation for new
   energy sources (A1T); and the scenario group which assumes balanced
   technological innovation for various energy sources (A1B). A2 scenario
   family: heterogeneous world This scenario family envisages a world
   where each region respects its distinctive culture and constructs
   diverse social and political structures that differ among regions,
   which leads to the formation of economic and political blocs. In such a
   world, tension constantly arises between and among nations and regions,
   and international trade and human movement, as well as technological
   transfer, will be restricted. Therefore, economic growth and
   technological progress proceed more slowly. Growth in per capita income
   will also stagnate, reaching only about US$7,000 in 2050. Regional
   differentials in natural resources and assets will further widen the
   existing North-South gap. The birth rate, which is assumed to be
   inversely related to economic growth, will therefore not decline,
   making the population growth rate higher than other scenario families,
   and resulting in a world population as high as 15 billion at the end of
   next century. Further, despite intensified investment in technological
   development in resource-poor regions, technological innovation in
   general will tend to lag due to slower economic growth. Regionalism
   lowers global environmental concerns in this scenario family, which
   will turn the world energy supply/demand structure toward a return to
   coal, making this family's CO2 emissions the highest. B1 scenario
   family: sustainable world development In this scenario, investments
   center upon efficient utilization of resources (or technologies
   stressing 7 an orientation toward post-materialism), social institution
   building, and environmental protection. Further, with the progress in
   waste reduction and recycling technologies, as well as intensified
   efforts toward efficient utilization of resources and recycling, the
   market for the environmental industry will expand rapidly, which will
   greatly help sustain economic growth. Even though the economic growth
   rate will be lower than in the high-growth scenario family, annual
   average per capita income in 2050 will be as high as US$13,000. Due to
   advances in technological transfer from the developed to the developing
   countries, significant progress will be made in education and other
   areas related to building human capital in developing counties. Thus,
   along with the so-called leap- frog developmental pattern, developing
   countries' pollution control measures will be extremely advanced.
   Public transportation systems will be developed, urban systems will
   become more compact, and low-input, low-load agriculture will spread.
   Agricultural commodity prices will be relatively higher due to the
   protection of nature, which will restrain the shift toward eating meat.
   B2 scenario family: coexistence of heterogeneous localities and regions
   The B2 scenario family envisages a world in which, owing to high
   environmental and social consciousness, economic development will be
   realized first by the poorer regions or localities of the world, which
   will be followed by the richer, while emphasizing solutions to
   community and local problems, as well as social equity. Under this
   scenario family, the driving force of development is not the market,
   but policy measures formulated by local governments. Thanks to policy
   measures aiming at the improvement of education and social welfare,
   both death and birth rates will decline, putting world population at 10
   billion by the end of 21st century. The emphasis on coexistence of
   heterogeneous localities and regions rather than the international
   market mechanism will translate into slightly lower growth, setting per
   capita income at US$12,000 in 2050. Income gaps between individuals and
   the North-South will narrow. Technology transfer and other assistance
   to developing countries will be governed not so much by internationally
   coordinated rules as by bilateral arrangements. Regional identity will
   be enhanced, and economic and political blocs will develop on a
   regional basis. For these reasons, problems pertaining to energy, food,
   and the environment will be solved independently within each region.
   The IPCC forecast greenhouse gas emissions based on the aforementioned
   four scenario families, and found that, under the A1T scenario, which
   belongs to the "rapid economic growth" scenario family (A1) and
   envisages drastic technological innovation for new energy sources,
   annual CO2 emissions will be the least in 2100, a level which is
   slightly lower than today's. Also, according to the "sustainable world
   development" scenario family (B1), annual CO2 emissions in 2100 will be
   slightly lower than at present. Incidentally, the most problematic in
   terms of global warming measures is not the world envisioned in the A1
   scenario family, but that envisioned in the A2 8 scenario family, which
   emphasizes a heterogeneous world. 3) Technologies Mitigations Scenarios
   under the "New Earth Plan" by RITE The technologies mitigations
   scenarios under the "New Earth Plan" combine assumptions for: (i)
   whether or not to introduce CO2 total emission standards regulations
   and/or concentration standards regulations; (ii) availability of CO2
   disposal technologies; and (iii) availability of zero-CO2 emission
   technologies. Ten cases are developed, each assuming a different degree
   of environmental constraints and availability of CO2 disposal and other
   innovative technologies, and the model solves for the least- cost
   energy supply mix satisfying final energy demand, which is exogenously
   given. To begin with, under a business as usual (BAU) case where no
   environmental protection measures are imposed, the primary energy
   supply mix in 2100 will show a fairly extreme return to coal. Nuclear
   will be phased out, and renewables will account for around 10% of
   primary energy supply. Under the "COP3 standard case," which assumes
   that only developed countries (Annex 1 countries under COP3) introduce
   measures to control CO2 pursuant to COP3 (more precisely, CO2 emissions
   by the Annex 1 countries in 2010 will be restricted in accordance with
   the COP3 agreement made in Kyoto, while total CO2 emissions by Annex 1
   countries in 2020 and thereafter will be reduced by 20% from the 1990
   level) the share of coal will be about 80% in 2100, that of fossil
   fuels including coal will be about 90%, that of nuclear will be 2.5%,
   and that of renewables will be slightly above 10%, indicating that the
   energy supply mix in this case differs little from that of the BAU case
   by not imposing environmental policy measures. Under a case which
   assumes that non-Annex I countries control emission levels (developing
   countries' annual emissions in 2100 are assumed to be below 200% of the
   1990 level), the energy supply mix in 2100 will be about 60% coal, a
   little under 70% fossil fuels including coal, 8% nuclear, and a little
   more than 20% renewables. It will be similar to the BAU case in terms
   of energy mix. Under a case where regulatory assumptions in the "COP3
   standard case" are further enhanced through the imposition of CO2
   concentration regulation (such that the CO2 concentration will be 550
   ppm in 2100), renewable energy sources will account for a little more
   than 50% of the energy supply mix in 2100, whereas fossil fuels will
   account for about 40%, a little more than half of which is gas, and
   nuclear will be a little less than 10%. 9 In a case that calls for the
   introduction of innovative zero-CO2 emission technologies (specific
   technologies are not assumed, however) in addition to its assumptions
   for regulating CO2 concentration, the sum of renewable energy sources
   and innovative new energy technologies will account for about 60% of
   the entire energy supply in 2100. On the contrary, in a case assuming
   the introduction of CO2 disposal technologies in addition to the
   assumptions made for the introduction of CO2 concentration regulation,
   fossil fuels will account for about 60% in 2100. Most of that
   represents coal, indicating a return to coal. Thus far we have outlined
   factors to be considered in formulating scenarios, and also reviewed
   major scenarios which take account of these factors (section 1-1 and
   1-2). We will now focus on particularly important factors such as
   fossil fuel availability, global warming, and other problems in the
   following sections (1-3 through 1-5). 1-3. Fossil fuel resources
   According to the recent data from the WEC, proven reserves of the
   world's fossil fuel resources at the beginning of 1997 amounted to
   about 1 trillion barrels of oil, about 5,000 trillion cubic feet of
   natural gas, and about 1 trillion tons of coal (see Table 1). Table 1
   Proved Fossil Fuel Reserves Proved reserves Annual production R/P (as
   of January 1, 1997) (1996) Oila 1.080 trillion barrels 25.3 billion
   barrels 43 years Natural gas 5,200 trillion cubic feet 91 trillion
   cubic feet 57 years Coal 980 billion tons 4.6 billion tons 212 years a
   Includes natural gas liquids (NGL). Source: World Energy Council (WEC),
   Survey of Energy Resources (London: WEC, 1998). When we look at the
   ratio of proved reserves to annual production (R/P), oil and natural
   gas will most likely run out in around 40 years and 50 years,
   respectively. However, bearing in mind the fact that fossil fuels are
   used to satisfy demand for liquid, gas, and solid fuels, and also
   taking into account technological developments that substitute one form
   for another, such as gas-to-liquid (GTL) and coal liquefaction and
   gasification (recalling especially the technological development in
   conversion technologies for abundant coal), it would be possible for
   other resources to supplement the insufficiency of a particular energy
   source such as oil and natural gas. Moreover, technological
   developments in burning fossil fuels for gasified combined cycle
   generation and fuel cells have been contributing significantly to
   improved heat efficiency. Together with extraordinary developments 10
   in energy conservation technologies, these technological developments
   are expected to slow the speed of resource depletion. Further, in
   addition to the oil and natural gas resources exploited heretofore, the
   resource endowments of so-called unconventional resources such as oil
   sand, oil shale, and coal bed methane are as large as, or even larger
   than, conventional reserves. In exploiting and utilizing these
   unconventional fossil fuel resources, higher cost is unavoidable, but
   some unconventional fossil fuel resources, such as oil sand in Canada,
   have already been commercially exploited. Table 2 Updated Assumptions
   for Energy Reserves, Resources, and Occurrences (Gtoe) Consumption
   Reserves Resources Resource Additional 1860 1994 Base occurrences to
   (1) (2) (1) + (2) 1994 Oil Conventional 103 3.21 150 145 295
   Unconventional 6 0.16 183 336 519 1,824 Natural gas Conventionala 48
   1.87 141 279 420 Unconventional - - 192 258 450 387 Hydrates - - - - -
   18,759 Coal 134 2.16 1,003 2,397 3,400 2,846 Total fossil fuels 291
   7.40 1,669 3,415 5,084 23,815 Uranium 19 0.46 57 203 260 150 In FBRsb -
   - 3,391 12,152 15,550 9,800 a Includes natural gas liquids (NGL). b
   Fast breeder reactors. Source: Hans-Holger Rogner, "An Assessment of
   World Hydrocarbon Resources," IIASA Working Paper (Vienna: IIASA,
   1996). Table 2 presents the updated resource endowment assumptions made
   by IIASA/WEC in their Global Energy Perspective. Figures under
   "resource base" refer only to "reserves" and "resources," while
   "additional occurrences" are just references to indicate ultimate
   resource potential. Thus, methane hydrates, whose resource potential is
   assumed to be enormous, are not included under the resource base
   category. Even without methane hydrates, each scenario family in the
   Global Energy Perspectives assumes that basically the fossil fuel
   resource base will not be a constraint. Thus, the fossil fuel resource
   base consisting of oil, natural gas, and coal is abundant if
   unconventional fossil fuels are included. The degree to which these
   resources are exploited and used will be determined by factors other
   than resource constraints. The largest factor is 11
   combustion-generated CO2 emissions. Thus the use of natural gas, which
   emits less CO2 than other fossil fuels, will be intensified. All fossil
   fuels are composed of hydrocarbons, making CO2 emissions unavoidable.
   It is therefore essential to develop technologies that improve heat
   efficiency to reduce CO2 emissions. Further, technologies are being
   developed to recover and reuse CO2 emissions, or to dispose of them
   underground or deep under the sea, which offers promise for future
   progress. 1-4. Global warming It is safe to say that fossil fuel
   resources, which account for 90% of world commercial energy supply,
   have some overall leeway at this time. But the problem is global
   warming and the other environmental impacts of fossil fuel consumption.
   There are various global environmental problems, including tropical
   deforestation and the spread of acid rain, but the implications of
   global warming are most serious. Global warming is assumed to cause
   phenomena such as sea level rise, shifts in ocean currents, changes in
   natural vegetation, changes in agricultural land use patterns and
   yields, changes in the availability of water runoff, increased natural
   disasters, and increased human health risks caused by tropical
   diseases. However, the greatest factor hindering action on global
   warming is scientific uncertainty. Even though recent activities by the
   IPCC expanded scientific knowledge of this problem, scientific
   causality has yet to be established for the global warming mechanism,
   and we still have incomplete knowledge of the carbon cycle mechanism
   from release to accumulation and absorption. Further, the degree of
   warming and its effects on the environment and economy are also
   uncertain. In addition to such uncertainties, there are difficulties in
   attaining sustainable growth because countries should simultaneously
   achieve economic growth, which is closely related to national
   interests, and close the North-South gap. Moreover, there is also the
   issue of intergenerational equity, as well as the difficult problem of
   how to evaluate our greenhouse impact on future generations. In any
   case, it seems most likely that temperature will rapidly increase over,
   say, the next 100 years if we do nothing about our greenhouse gas
   emissions, which necessitates action to reduce them. Stabilizing the
   concentration of greenhouse gases is of course important, but this
   could shackle humanity. To stabilize the atmospheric CO2 concentration,
   the IPCC developed a world CO2 emission curve indicating that annual
   world CO2 emissions must be kept below the current level for 100 years
   if we are to stabilize the concentration at 550 ppm, a level frequently
   said to be twice as high as pre-industrial revolution times. Factors
   affecting CO2 emissions can be classified into three 12 areas: fuel
   conversion, energy conservation, and economic development. Even if we
   set our goal at 550 ppm and direct significant efforts at fuel
   conversion and energy conservation, the attainment of this goal would
   still be difficult. In time we must consider phasing out fossil fuels.
   Given the expected economic development of the developing countries,
   combined with the resultant growth in energy consumption, many believe
   it would be difficult to attain the 550 ppm stabilization goal, which
   implies that CO2 emissions in 2100 should be lower than at present.
   1-5. Energy forms and technologies for energy conversion In terms of
   energy form, the proportion of network-based supply forms such as
   electric power grids and gas pipelines will increase, and in terms of
   fuel type, there will be a preference for low-carbon fuels such as gas,
   methanol, and hydrogen. To consider the implications concretely,
   analyses were conducted for cases assuming the greater use of nuclear
   power and fossil fuels such as natural gas, combined with the
   introduction of carbon dioxide recovery technologies or biomass. For
   the near- and mid-term future, a realistic approach would be to
   accelerate energy conservation and afforestation, continue expanding
   the use of natural gas and nuclear, and continue using fossil fuels in
   general while at the same time taking measures to recover emitted
   carbon dioxide. Therefore, using conventional technology will be
   important for the time being. Further, many developing countries depend
   on noncommercial biomass for their energy supplies, and the energy use
   pattern in these countries differs significantly from that in developed
   countries. Taking such differences into account, one of the tasks of
   developing countries at least for the moment would be the cleaner
   utilization of noncommercial biomass. When considering near- and
   mid-term future energy conversion technologies, an improvement in
   overall energy utilization rate, i.e., the rate of electric as well as
   heat energy output to energy input, might have a large application
   potential both for large-scale facilities and for dispersed power
   sources. For example, combined cycle technology has recently made
   remarkable improvements in conversion efficiency, increasing from
   around 43% in 1985 to around 50% at present, and further improvement is
   expected. In addition, the overall efficiency of cogeneration systems
   is expected to reach the level of 70 to 80%. Furthermore, repowering
   will also be able to help improve overall efficiency by feeding gas to
   heat steam and attain high temperature. Incidentally, combined cycle
   and cogeneration account for 21% and 4%, respectively, of the electric
   power plants constructed or to be constructed during the period from
   1995 to 2004. Another factor to take into account is that the future
   energy supply and demand structure will shift from a large-scale
   centralized type to a dispersed type. In developed countries there is a
   trend 13 toward combined demand for heat and electric power, because of
   which dispersed power sources are emerging in order to closely match
   the needs of small-scale users. Other factors accelerating the shift
   toward dispersed power supply systems include: saturated economic
   development with little expectation for large and immediate demand
   expansion; limitation of sites available for large-scale power plants;
   changes in industrial structure; and emergence of small-scale power
   producers due to electric power sector deregulation. The need for such
   dispersed power sources has stimulated the development of various new
   generation methods. Representative technologies are the micro gas
   turbine and the fuel cell. Employing liquid fuel and usable with
   cogeneration, both of these technologies have been developed on various
   scales using various methods. Fuel cells generate power in different
   ways according to the ambient temperature, and they are suited not only
   to small- to mid-scale generation, but also to quite large-scale
   generation by combining modules. Fuel cells running at room temperature
   have made remarkable progress, and there are now attempts to power
   automobiles with them. The importance of independent power sources is
   pointed out in developing countries as well. Although at some stages of
   development, large-scale centralized power sources are necessary, there
   is also some need for independent power producers at a relatively early
   stage of development due to factors such as: large-scale centralized
   power sources do not match the market size; power transmission and
   distribution networks and other infrastructure are inadequately
   developed; and there is a need to accommodate power demand in isolated
   small- to medium-size communities. In short, technologies are needed to
   match the situation at demand sites. Another expected change is the
   decarbonization of liquid fuels. Whereas conventional fossil fuels are
   used without significantly changing their chemical structures,
   decarbonization technology reduces the carbon content by using the
   chemical energy of carbon and carbon compounds to manufacture and
   supply synthetic materials. During the transition period, substituting
   low-grade hydrocarbons such as methanol while using current combustion
   technology is easy and expected to spread. Expected toward the end of
   the transition period is a switchover to hydrogen, which does not
   contain carbon at all. These synthetic fuels may be used not only for
   motors, but also in dispersed power sources such as fuel cells. In any
   case, these synthetic fuels are secondary energy sources that are
   converted from primary sources through processes such as reforming
   fuels and electrolysis of water, while utilizing such primary energy
   sources as fossil fuels and nuclear power. In addition to
   nuclear-generated power, the high-temperature heat of hundreds of
   degrees centigrade generated by advanced nuclear reactors can also
   provide the primary energy to manufacture synthetic fuels. 14 The
   changing energy supply and demand structure calls for not only the
   development of large-scale centralized power sources but also the
   development of dispersed power sources and the conversion of fuels as a
   way of implementing energy technology development from now on, while
   conforming to changing situations. Needless to say, these technologies
   should also meet economic requirements and those for environmental
   conservation. 1-6. Summary of energy supply and demand When discussing
   long-term energy supply and demand, the standard wisdom is that
   economic models can predict only about 20 years ahead (i.e., up to
   2020), because the energy supply and demand structure thereafter will
   be greatly influenced by the choices made on technology, policy
   measures, social structure, and lifestyle. For a scenario where no
   particular environmental constraints are imposed, fossil fuel
   consumption and CO2 emissions will increase, but environmental policy
   measures will not be promoted. For another scenario where environmental
   constraints are imposed to stabilize CO2 concentration, progress will
   be realized in energy conservation and the shift will be a toward
   non-fossil fuels (renewables and nuclear). Though there are many
   different scenarios, Figures 1 through 3 illustrate examples of
   scenarios where no particular environmental constraints are imposed,
   and a scenario meant to stabilize CO2 concentration. The major
   scenarios we have reviewed commonly accept the view that fossil fuel
   resources are finite, but that for the next 100 years or so fossil
   fuels as a whole will not run out if coal and non- conventional oil and
   gas are included. On the other hand, environmental effects associated
   with the use of fossil fuels are expected to be serious, and this is
   particularly so with regard to global warming. In this context,
   stabilizing the concentration of atmospheric global warming gases,
   particularly CO2, will be a major task. Factors influencing CO2
   emissions can be categorized into changes in CO2 intensities, energy
   intensities, per capita GDP, and population. Concerning technical
   measures to reduce CO2 emissions, we can enumerate such areas as energy
   conservation (energy saving and efficiency improvements), energy
   sources with low carbon emissions (shift to fuels such as biomass and
   natural gas), zero-carbon-emission energy (new energy sources and
   nuclear), and afforestation, as well as the recovery, use, and disposal
   of CO2. If we set a target for stabilizing the CO2 concentration at 550
   ppm, it is necessary to control CO2 emissions in the near-term future
   through such measures as energy conservation, fuel switching, 15
   afforestation, and CO2 recovery, even though fossil fuel consumption is
   high. In the long-term future, progress in CO2 recovery and renewable
   energy technologies, as well as nuclear energy technologies, will play
   important roles in decreasing the reliance on fossil fuels. Achieving
   such a scenario makes it important for developed countries to implement
   environmental policy options in their own countries, including
   accelerating energy R&D, and also to implement economic assistance
   programs to promote efforts by developing countries to tackle their
   environmental problems (particularly restraining CO2 emissions). 16 17
   2. Feasibilities of alternative energy sources Given global warming and
   other environmental constraints associated with greenhouse gas
   emissions, as well as ultimate resource constraints, the future energy
   mix should be oriented towards phasing out fossil fuels. When narrowly
   construed, alternative energy sources can mean oil substitutes only,
   but in this report alternative energy sources include a variety of
   energy sources that are potentially able to substitute for fossil
   fuels. We have investigated and evaluated the feasibility of various
   alternative energy sources not only in terms of technical feasibility
   but also in terms of such aspects as: l Energy resource limits and
   supply availability -- resource availability, current state of
   technological development, and blueprint for the future l Factors
   restricting energy supply and demand, as well as social compatibility
   -- the environment, wastes, costs, public acceptance, etc. l Policy
   strategies for alternative energy development -- current state of each
   energy source and future plans for utilization and development By so
   doing, we were able to analyze the merits and shortcomings of each
   energy source from the angles listed above, and also consider criteria
   in choosing suitable energy sources for the future. 2-1. Nuclear energy
   (nuclear fission energy) The following characteristics of nuclear
   energy set it apart from other generation technologies: l High energy
   density makes it possible to generate a vast amount of energy for a
   long time using a small amount of fuel. l A relatively small plant can
   generate a vast amount of energy, signifying great scale merit (this
   point is related to the first point above). l This technology uses
   nuclear fuel and other radioactive materials, and is therefore
   incorporated into the international system for nuclear
   nonproliferation. l Advanced technology is required to construct and
   operate nuclear-related facilities, and technology required to secure
   safety is peculiar to nuclear power. l It involves the unique technical
   system of the nuclear fuel cycle, involving spent fuel reprocessing and
   other tasks, providing the once-through nuclear fuel cycle option is
   not considered. Nuclear energy is currently playing an important role
   in supplying electric power, mainly in developed countries. In terms of
   generation cost, trial calculations for some countries indicate that
   nuclear is costlier than fossil fuel-based generation, whereas trial
   calculations for other countries 18 indicate the opposite. Fuel
   accounts for a small part of total cost. The handling of nuclear fuel
   and other radioactive materials makes nuclear energy susceptible to
   additional cost requirements to comply with technical and social
   requirements. Fuel for nuclear power is limited to uranium today, and
   supply shortages might occur during the 21st century if the resource is
   limited to terrestrial uranium mines. On the other hand, there is a
   huge amount of uranium in sea water, and developing a recovery
   technology for such resources would provide an inexhaustible supply of
   uranium. Such technology is not yet commercially competitive, but is
   approaching the practical level. Concerning technological development,
   current efforts include: making light water reactors, which predominate
   at this time, more advanced and economical; developing so-called
   next-generation reactors, including small-scale reactors and simplified
   pressurized reactors; and developing very advanced small-scale
   high-temperature, gas-cooled reactors. Prodigious efforts are also
   underway for the development of fast breeder reactors that will
   presumably use uranium resources efficiently, and practicalization is
   deemed possible as far as technological aspects are concerned. The
   development of fast breeder reactors can alleviate the aforementioned
   presumable uranium supply shortage. On the other hand, unsolved
   problems remain for the nuclear fuel cycle, particularly in the area of
   spent fuel reprocessing and the final disposal of high-level waste
   associated with reprocessing. A lack of progress in developing the
   downstream end of the nuclear fuel cycle could limit the implementation
   of nuclear power. In the area of environmental constraints, it is
   expected that nuclear energy will contribute greatly to solving
   environmental problems because it does not generate greenhouse gases.
   There are wide differences in the role of nuclear under each scenario:
   In some scenarios, which consider how nuclear would help mitigate
   global warming, it plays an important role in energy supply and demand,
   while in other scenarios it will eventually be phased out owing to a
   lack of public acceptance. Nuclear power is handled differently in
   various energy supply and demand scenarios, such as including it in the
   same category with renewable sources of energy, or exogenously
   determining upper limits for nuclear supply in case study analyses. In
   conjecturing which reactor type will predominate, there are various
   views ranging from those expecting light water reactors to predominate,
   to those electing fast breeder reactors, and to those expecting
   small-scale ultra-safe reactors to predominate. For example, some
   scenarios developed in the IIASA-WEC study seem to assume that the
   introduction of small-scale reactors with sufficient safety measures is
   a factor influencing public acceptance. 19 2-2. Renewable sources of
   energy The IPCC study and the IIASA-WEC study consider scenarios under
   which renewable sources of energy will replace fossil fuels and become
   part of the main energy supply at the end of the 21st century. The
   renewables category comprises a very large number of energy sources,
   including hydropower, photovoltaic, solar thermal, biomass, wind,
   geothermal, and ocean (such as wave power). 1) Hydropower Hydropower
   development has significantly advanced, mainly in developed countries,
   and hydropower is playing an important role as a power source that does
   not generate greenhouse gases. The load-following operation of
   hydropower is also good. Pumped-storage hydro is utilized as a means to
   store electricity. However, almost all suitable sites for dam
   construction have already been developed, and many people believe that
   prospects for additional hydropower siting are not very good. Further,
   a potential danger of large dam development is the serious impacts on
   regional environments. 2) Solar Solar's resource base is extremely
   large, approximately 10,000 times as large as current energy
   consumption, but its energy density is low. Though solar energy can be
   used for heating purposes, this report discusses photovoltaics, whose
   usefulness has been recognized, and which has increasingly been
   promoted in various countries. Even though the economy of photovoltaics
   has been regarded as the most serious barrier to wider adoption,
   per-module cost improved from 20,000 yen/W in 1974 to 600 yen/W in 1996
   due to technological improvements and government assistance. Likewise,
   efficiency has also improved during the past decade, and in the case of
   multi-crystal silicon PV cells, it rose from 12% to 17%. However, the
   PV cost reduction trend itself has slowed. There is a theoretical
   restriction in terms of improving efficiency, with 20% presumed to be
   the upper limit. Many scenarios assume that the amount of photovoltaic
   generation will be significantly larger in the latter half of the 21st
   century. Those scenarios presumably reflect considerations that heavier
   use of fossil fuels and nuclear energy might be hindered by problems
   associated with global environmental problems and public acceptance,
   respectively, and that photovoltaics can achieve market inroads even
   though it might still be expensive. 20 Since photovoltaic output
   fluctuates widely depending on the time of day, weather, and season,
   there is a problem in maintaining stable output as a large-scale power
   source to support society's activities. Fluctuating output necessitates
   additional costs for grid connection, and there is a widespread view
   that it would be difficult for photovoltaics to supply more than 10-odd
   percent of total power supply through the grid. On the other hand,
   photovoltaic energy supply has no significant resource or environmental
   problems, and apart from the economics it has already reached the
   practical use stage. Thus it is advisable to increase the use of
   photovoltaics as small-scale, independent power sources as early as
   possible. Further, depending upon localities and situations,
   photovoltaics may be economical. They are also well adapted to the
   dispersion of power sources in the energy supply system of the future,
   provided they are combined with other, stable power sources and with
   power storage means. Using photovoltaics on a large scale would require
   siting in localities that are remote from demand areas, and have much
   space and sunlight, and converting generated electricity into stable
   energy sources such as hydrogen. 3) Wind Like solar energy, wind energy
   has vast resource availability and its technology has matured
   considerably. In places with suitable wind patterns, commercial use is
   cost-competitive even assuming the contemporary technology level, and
   increased use is expected. Large-scale use has been implemented in
   countries such as Denmark, the U.S., and Germany. As a small-scale
   power source, wind is also suitable for isolated islands and other
   remote places. However, some say that Japan has limited favorable
   sites, and that they are remote from demand areas. 4) Geothermal
   Likewise, geothermal is a good energy source in terms of both potential
   supply and cost, but many analysts say that its limited possible sites
   make it difficult to use on a large scale. 5) Biomass Biomass is a
   renewable and carbon-neutral energy option, since its production and
   consumption cycle represents nothing more than the recovery of
   greenhouse gases from the atmosphere through biological reactions,
   followed by their release into the atmosphere. Biomass resources are
   available in very large quantities, and found widely throughout
   developing countries as well. Terrestrial biomass amounts to almost 100
   times as much as annual world energy consumption, while 10 times annual
   world energy consumption is added each year through photosynthesis.
   Currently, biomass 21 directly burned as a fuel accounts for a large
   share of the total fuel mix in developing countries, while biomass
   generated as by-products of waste management is a cheap resource,
   making it a promising energy source for developed countries as well. If
   left unmanaged, biomass generated from wood use, such as sawmill waste
   and other wood waste, black liquor, as well as husks, bagasse, and
   other biomass from agricultural production, will become sources of
   environmental pollution and carbon dioxide. This creates the need to
   manage such wastes, thereby resulting in cost advantages which show
   that it is desirable to use such resources more intensively. Electric
   power generation using biomass fuels, and conversion into methane and
   methanol fuel through biochemical and thermochemical processes, will
   become more economical in the future, and it is expected that biomass
   will be a good fuel source. However, areas where such resources can be
   used, as well as the supply volume, are both related to and limited by
   the industrial structure that generates those resources. Precisely
   speaking, the biomass utilization process is not perfectly carbon-free
   on the whole because carbon dioxide is released while processing
   biomass into fuel, and deforestation is associated with the use of
   biomass. In addition to using biomass waste, biomass plantations for
   producing energy crops are also a possibility. However, due to the
   competition for land to grow food, and also because of absolute limits
   on land availability, this option is not so attractive in terms of
   resource availability, cost, and efficiency. In short, the use of land
   specifically to grow energy crops presents no significant merits. 2-3.
   Nuclear fusion No resource limitation on nuclear fusion is anticipated
   at this moment. Fuel resources to be actually consumed are deuterium
   and lithium, which are abundant in sea water. Nuclear fusion appears to
   be technically feasible. Due to the inherent nature of the fusion
   reaction, safety measures are relatively easy to take,* and it is hoped
   that nuclear fusion plants can be sited near demand centers Since the
   operation of fusion plants is associated with generating low-level
   radioactive substances, these substances should be stored for at least
   one hundred years, but it is possible that the amounts of * This is
   because the total potential hazardous effects of nuclear substances
   used at a fusion facility are one-thousandth those of a nuclear fission
   facility of similar scale. So although such measures are necessary, it
   is thought to be much easier to take safety measures for nuclear
   fusion. Further, it is easy to stop the reaction. 22 such substances
   could be reduced through the development of materials resistant to
   neutron exposure and activation, which will make the plant and
   equipment more durable and reduce the need for frequent replacement.
   Some aspects of nuclear fusion are considered favorable for
   disseminating this technology in many countries. For example, the fuel
   cycle is simple, there is no need to reprocess and dispose of
   high-level wastes, and it involves no international management scheme
   for the handling of fissile materials. Fusion technology development
   has attained the stage making experimental reactor construction
   possible, but the demonstration stage for power generation has yet to
   be attained, and it is expected to take another thirty years or so for
   this technology to demonstrate technical feasibility as an energy
   source, after which it is possible that nuclear fusion will become a
   workable backstop supply technology. Further R&D efforts are needed for
   this technology to evince its economical and other advantages, and to
   compete with other energy sources. Design examples propose that fusion
   plants be used as a major power source with a capacity of 1 GW,
   implying that fusion technology would not be suitable for a society
   without the socio- technical infrastructure to construct, operate, and
   maintain nuclear power plants, or without power grids. Given their
   characteristic of steady operation, fusion plants are suitable for base
   load, but not necessarily for demand areas with large seasonal and
   time-of-day fluctuations, or small-scale dispersed clients. In this
   sense, fusion technology has drawbacks when considering its suitability
   for dispersed supply systems of the future. As in the case of current
   nuclear fission plants, fusion plants will yield high temperatures for
   heat utilization purposes, which suggests possibilities for multiple
   industrial use. If nuclear fusion can be used as a high-temperature
   heat source, it may be employed to supply the chemical industry and/or
   the energy conversion sector, which would convert high-temperature
   energy into secondary energy forms for fuel cells and micro turbines,
   which are deemed promising as dispersed power sources. The latter
   possibility, i.e., the potential for converting high-temperature energy
   into energy sources for fuel cells and micro turbines, offers promise
   for making fusion energy accommodate future types of energy systems.
   2-4. Summary of feasibilities of alternative energy sources As has been
   discussed, the major criteria of importance in determining future
   energy sources are: adequate availability of resources; effectiveness
   in solving environmental problems, particularly in reducing carbon
   dioxide emissions; ability to provide a stable supply and ensure energy
   security; and cost or economy. Further, future energy sources should
   not only be socially compatible, meaning 23 they should be geared to
   existing infrastructure such as transmission and distribution networks,
   but should also accommodate the shift toward cleaner and more
   convenient energy sources as well as dispersed power sources.
   Evaluating the various aspects of future energy types yields results
   that depend upon what sort of policy measures and social institutions
   will have been selected. Further, the cost of a particular type of
   energy will be affected by its amount and that of other energy sources
   to be used, and therefore it is not appropriate to prioritize each
   energy source in a generalized manner. Nuclear fission Nuclear fission
   has low environmental and resource constraints, as well as the
   possibility of providing a stable supply. Even at this time, light
   water reactors are cost competitive, making them one of the most likely
   options for reducing carbon dioxide emissions for the moment. The view
   is that from now on we will see technological advances in fast breeder
   reactors, which have a low resource constraint, and small-scale safer
   reactors, social acceptability of which will facilitate increased use.
   On the other hand, a lack of public acceptance presently creates siting
   problems, and the reprocessing and disposal of spent fuel and
   high-level waste may become a constraint in the long-term future, if
   such programs do not progress smoothly. Renewable energy Among
   renewables, solar and wind satisfy the aforementioned criteria, and
   there are expectations for their speedy dissemination. Quite vigorous
   economic assistance measures are being taken to address their high
   cost. It is hoped they will contribute a significantly large portion of
   the energy supply in the future. On the other hand, their inherent
   difficulties in providing a stable supply necessitate technological
   solutions in areas such as power storage, as well as the new technical
   issues being addressed under the WE-NET (World Energy Network) project,
   so that they can supply a certain percentage of our power in future
   years. Biomass has advantages not only because of the potential
   resource amount and low environmental impacts, but also because of its
   few technological difficulties. IPCC scenarios therefore expect biomass
   to join the mainstream among alternative energy sources. The use of
   biomass in waste form is effective and is expected to grow. However,
   the prevailing view on procuring biomass by cultivating energy crops is
   that such use is not realistic in view of efficient land utilization
   and The WE-NET project was started by the Japanese Government in 1992
   with the aim of helping solve global environmental problems by means of
   the large-scale and effective use of clean and renewable energies. 24
   energy efficiency. Nuclear fusion Owing to the assumption that nuclear
   fusion will not enter the market during the first half of the 21st
   century, it is difficult to discuss its implications under the context
   of energy supply and demand during that period. It is possible that
   fusion will supply energy in the latter half of the 21st century, but
   we lack sufficient quantitative data to assess the technical, economic,
   and social feasibilities, or to judge costs and social compatibility.
   Therefore, even during the latter half of the 21st century, major
   scenarios do not explicitly deal with this energy source. Even though
   some envisage that nuclear fusion will be a suitable substitute for
   nuclear fission, it is not known whether the former has any particular
   advantages over the latter. There may be a situation in which fusion
   will not be introduced at all. Within the technologically predictable
   range at this moment, the cost of nuclear fusion generation is not
   expected to be comparable to that of LWRs, which will be further
   streamlined, or with that of fossil fuel-fired thermal generation. If
   the technological learning effect and the like, succeed in decreasing
   fusion power cost, and if fossil fuel prices and environmental
   management costs increase, then it is possible that, under an energy
   supply and demand scenario stressing the global environment, nuclear
   fusion would become an energy supply at reasonable cost after 2050. The
   fact that fusion is a large-scale and centralized power source has some
   advantages, but it also has some disadvantages in meeting small power
   source demand. In any case, when we consider contributions to the world
   energy supply and coping with demand in the latter half of the 21st
   century, we must bear in mind that the chosen energy sources should be
   geared to the energy system of the future. We must investigate the
   potential of nuclear fusion while at the same time attaching greater
   importance to flexibility and considering a wide range of ideas. If we
   promote nuclear fusion development, it should be oriented towards an
   increased likelihood that it can address future energy system needs.
   When compared with various alternative energy sources, nuclear fusion
   has the potential to become an energy source in consideration of its
   low resource constraint, its environmental adaptability, and its
   potential supply capability. However, comparing fusion technology with
   other alternative energy technologies shows that the generation of
   energy under the latter has already been demonstrated, even though
   these alternatives may differ in scale and have some problems in terms
   of economy. By contrast, nuclear fusion has yet to demonstrate that it
   can supply energy, making it inappropriate to put this technology in
   the same category as other alternatives. 25 3. Conclusions Bearing in
   mind both resources and environmental aspects, the future energy mix
   should be oriented toward reducing carbon dioxide emissions through
   such measures as phasing out fuels with high carbon content in order to
   stabilize concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide on a global
   scale. Energy technologies for this purpose may include energy
   conservation, renewable energy sources (direct or indirect use of solar
   energy), nuclear energy, fuel conversion, and carbon dioxide recovery,
   but many problems remains for current forms to become the energy
   mainstay of the future. Levels attained by these technologies vary, and
   the current and near-future measures expected are: the development of
   energy conservation, fuel conversion, efficient energy conversion
   technologies, and carbon dioxide treatment technologies. In identifying
   fundamental solutions for problems in the distant future, it is
   important to keep investigating the development of innovative ways to
   use non- carbon-based energy sources, including nuclear fusion, thereby
   balancing the needs to preserve the global environment and secure a
   global energy supply. 1) Survey on long-term energy supply and demand
   In discussing long-term energy supply and demand, the range that can be
   forecast by economic models is generally 20 years into the future.
   Energy supply and demand forecasts beyond that time period differ
   significantly depending upon policy measures to be introduced and
   socially adopted options. Reflecting possible social structures, life
   styles, and the like, long-term energy supply and demand forecasts
   address a wide range of policy and social options. Such forecasts are
   categorized into various groups, ranging from those extrapolating the
   future of humankind from past human history, to those based on
   normative ideas prescribing what human society should be like. In
   reality, scenarios are formulated somewhere between the extrapolation
   and the normative, that is, they are formulated while considering
   current circumstances and restrictions, on the bases of which an ideal
   situation is pursued. Each case or scenario family commonly recognizes
   that fossil fuels are finite, but fossil fuels are not assumed to run
   out over the coming 100 years. Assumptions for the future vary in terms
   of cost and degree of consumption. On the other hand, global warming
   associated with fossil fuel consumption is recognized as a more serious
   problem, i.e., environmental problems will be more urgent and a greater
   constraint than resource availability on energy consumption by humanity
   in the next century. Based on the shared awareness described above,
   many scenarios were developed in accordance with the possible future
   choices made by society. They include: scenarios that give economic
   growth 26 high priority, with the result that innovative technologies
   rapidly increase their share of clean energy sources despite growth in
   energy consumption; scenarios which assume the diffusion of lifestyles
   that restrain energy consumption, with the resulting control of
   greenhouse gas emissions; and scenarios that give economic growth the
   highest priority, resulting in worsening environmental pollution. In
   view of the serious constraints arising from future global
   environmental problems, we can classify the various scenarios in
   accordance with general views and the specific measures to be taken in
   dealing with such problems. Energy supply and demand implications under
   each scenario could be described from the viewpoints of energy
   conservation, reducing carbon oxide emissions originating from energy
   use, and economic development. When classified according to developing
   and developed regions, assumptions for long-term energy supply and
   demand forecasts differ in general: for the near future, energy
   conservation is assumed to be advanced in developed countries for the
   moment, and economic development is assumed to accelerate in many
   developing countries, while technological changes in energy production
   and use are assumed to advance all around the world. On a worldwide
   level in the relatively near future, it is assumed that fossil fuels
   are the main source of energy, while energy conservation, fossil fuel
   conversion, and carbon dioxide recovery through the use of available
   technology are assumed to be the primary measures for controlling
   carbon dioxide releases. In the long-term future, the intent is to
   phase out fossil fuels by employing innovative technologies for energy
   use, including renewable and nuclear energy technologies. The above
   discussions summarize general trends in long-term energy supply and
   demand forecasts, but there are some variations that conform to the
   views on the economy and technological progress of each energy source,
   as well as policy options to be taken for them. For the scenario in
   which no particular environmental constraints are imposed, fossil fuel
   consumption and carbon dioxide emissions will continue to grow.
   Scenarios attaching greater importance to environmental measures
   indicate that in addition to energy conservation, humanity is supposed
   to try and stabilize the carbon dioxide concentration and to phase out
   carbon-based energy sources through intensified efforts for converting
   energy sources to have lower carbon dioxide emissions, and through
   securing their production. Securing production of such energy forms
   will in turn accelerate the development of the developing countries and
   contribute to global-scale sustainable development. Such scenarios
   indicate that on the one hand, during the 21st century energy
   conservation will be accelerated, while at the same time non-fossil
   fuels including renewables and nuclear fission will account for a major
   proportion of energy supply and demand. If successful, nuclear fusion
   might 27 also be included in this non-fossil fuel category. It is
   presumed that every possible measure should be taken to realize the
   goal of sustainable growth specified in the previous paragraph. In
   particular, each developed county should domestically implement
   environmentally conscious policy options and promote energy RD&D
   activities, while at the same time each country should also implement
   economic development assistance programs in the developing countries
   while paying attention to environmental efforts by these countries
   (especially controlling carbon dioxide emissions). 2) Feasibility of
   new alternative energy sources Simultaneously satisfying the needs for
   economic development, stable energy supply, and global environmental
   conservation necessitates reducing, by the end of 21st century, carbon
   dioxide emissions generated by energy consumption. Suitable energy
   resources for this purpose should be endowed with such characteristics
   as low resource limitations, economic advantages, environmental
   compatibility, and supply stability, as well as large production
   capacity, and those are the energy sources we must develop and deploy.
   Various levels have been attained by technologies for reducing carbon
   dioxide, and views on the future direction of technological
   developments and cost prospects also range from carbon dioxide recovery
   to innovative energy use technologies. That having been said, if we
   introduce all conceivable technologies, then stabilizing the carbon
   oxide concentration will presumably be possible. However, it will not
   be easy to achieve this goal, and it is hoped that a wide range of
   technological development efforts will be implemented. Nearly all
   alternative energy sources were recognized as technically feasible and
   sufficient in terms of resource availability, even though the extents
   of feasibility and availability differ among them. However, in view of
   the social and economic aspects, each alternative energy source has
   factors that do not necessarily bode well for future development and
   dissemination. It is therefore impossible to assert at this moment that
   any one energy source will be able to satisfy a major proportion of
   future world energy demand, with sufficient supply availability and
   cost competitiveness, as well as with public acceptability. It is
   therefore necessary to accelerate the development of alternative energy
   sources in order to realize possibilities assumed under a wide range of
   options. Thus, we must proceed with the development of various
   alternative energy sources, and from among them choose the "best mix,"
   i.e., the most suitable energy supply composition, as that
   corresponding to the selected scenario, which reflects different
   degrees of environmental friendliness and economy, as well as certain
   lifestyles and social values. In selecting a particular energy source,
   we should also carefully consider the ability to tailor it to the
   energy supply and demand system of the future, as well as to the
   orientation of 28 future energy technology development. There are two
   types of technological efforts to be pursued in stabilizing atmospheric
   carbon dioxide concentration, and each requires a different approach.
   One is the promotion of technologies currently available for energy
   conversion, energy conservation, and other relevant technologies useful
   for restricting carbon dioxide emissions, and the other is intensifying
   technological development efforts for innovative technologies that are
   deemed to have future promise. As presented by the aforementioned "New
   Earth Program," the former efforts include conservation of energy,
   reducing carbon content through fossil fuel conversion, and efficient
   use of biomass with low carbon emissions, all of which require flexible
   supply measures in order to accelerate marketability. On the other
   hand, the latter efforts correspond to the development of innovative
   energy utilization technologies and to finding more substances that can
   absorb carbon dioxide, which require steady development efforts based
   on a long-range view that is independent of occasional economic
   fluctuations. While various options assuming different technology
   levels are available to reduce CO2 emissions from energy use, and while
   a wide range of alternative energy sources should be developed, it was
   understood from our study that nuclear fusion has high potential as an
   energy source in the latter half of the 21st century. Specifically, if
   nuclear fusion becomes a reality, it can be implemented when society
   needs a large-scale primary energy source capable of large-scale
   decarbonization. In this sense, nuclear fusion is presumably one
   candidate among a number of innovative energy technologies capable of
   solving energy problems in the latter half of the 21st century. Nuclear
   fusion development can be seen as a way to realize such potential
   energy options. On the other hand, even when compared with other new
   energy alternatives, if we bear in mind the fact that fusion's
   technological feasibility has yet to be demonstrated, chances are that
   bringing the technology into practical use will be possible only
   farther into the future. Thus, we should keep in mind that it is not
   necessarily appropriate to discuss nuclear fusion on equal terms with
   other alternative energy sources. In view of these characteristics and
   awareness, it is hoped that steady development efforts are pursued with
   the aim of making it one of the core energy sources after the mid-21st
   century. It is essential for the development of new energy sources
   including nuclear fusion, whose practicalization greatly depends upon
   progress made through future R&D activities, to be as flexible as
   possible while frequently evaluating the time frame for practical
   realization, plant scale and economy, confirming the significance of a
   particular project in terms of future energy supply and 29 demand as
   well as global environmental implications, and considering a wide range
   of options. R&D programmes for energy technology have limited budgets,
   and therefore a balanced R&D policy is required. In particular,
   large-scale projects require flexible planning based on long-term
   prospects, and undue persistence on a certain project should be
   avoided. It is important for governmental and research institutions,
   researchers, and engineers involved in the development of new energy
   sources to be always conscious of the social significance of their
   activities, while paying attention to the energy supply and demand
   situation and the trends in global environmental measures. Further, it
   is strongly hoped that these institutions and personnel will renew
   their awareness that it is very important for them to disseminate
   information concerning the social significance, purpose, and
   developmental strategy, as well as the progress and achievements made
   under developmental projects for new sources of energy, so as to obtain
   the understanding and support of society. 30 Appendix Research
   Committee on Long-Term Energy Supply and Demand and Feasibilities of
   Alternative Energy Sources A. Members (as of November 1999) Yoichi
   Kaya, Chairman Professor, Keio University Hisashi Ishitani, Acting
   Chairman Professor, The University of Tokyo Nobuyuki Inoue Professor,
   Kyoto University Yohji Uchiyama Senior Research Scientist, Central
   Research Institute of Electric Power Industry Keiichi Komoto Research
   Associate, Fuji Research Institute Corporation Tomihiro Taniguchi
   Visiting Professor, The University of Tokyo Takuya Homma Professor
   Emeritus, University of Tsukuba Morio Makiguchi General Manager,
   Nuclear Power Department, The Federation of Electric Power Companies
   Tsuneyuki Morita Head, Environmental Economics Program, National
   Institute for Environmental Studies Kenji Yamaji Professor, The
   University of Tokyo Kokichi Ito Member of the Board, The Institute of
   Energy Economics, Japan, and Director, The Energy Data and Modelling
   Center, The Institute of Energy Economics, Japan 31 B. Meetings
   convened First meeting: November 17, 1999 Second meeting: December 13,
   1999 Third meeting: January 27, 2000 Fourth meeting: February 14, 2000
   Fifth meeting: March 15, 2000 32
