http://aiep.state.gov/default.cfm?Page=Guidelines

   U.S. Department of State Art in Embassies Program
   AIEP Home Page
   AIEP About Page
   AIEP Exhibit Page
   AIEP Guidelines Page
   AIEP Artist Page
   AIEP Partner Page
   "The Art in Embassies Program turns artists into ambassadors for
   America"
       Guidelines
       The Selection Process: Working with the Curator
       Repository
       Documenting the Exhibition: Forms & Reports

   Loan Forms
       Facility Reports
       Condition Reports
       Useful Terms
       Embassy Agreement Form
       Embassy Personnel Performance Report

   Shipment of the Exhibition: Working with the Registrar
   Supplemental Funds for Shipping
   The Installation Process
   Handling of the Works of Art
   Insurance
   Exhibition Information
   Labels
       Lighting

   Special Care & Handling
   Catalogs
   Lender Recognition
   Return Shipment of the Exhibition
   Packing
   Customs Clearance
   Arrival Notification
   Marking the Crates
   AIEP Contact Information
   6FAM (774 AIEP 779.3 AIEP Requirements)

   The Selection Process: Working with the Curator

   The Art in Embassies Program (AIEP) curator is charged with the
   responsibility of coordinating original high quality American works of
   art for the official residences of U.S. ambassadors and diplomatic
   missions abroad. These unique exhibitions play an integral role in
   building a positive U.S. cultural image around the world, and reflect
   the interests of the ambassador, while remaining attentive to the host
   country's cultural and political environment.

   The development of the exhibition involves numerous consultations
   between the ambassador and curator to determine the ultimate selection
   and number of works to be included. Ambassador-designates are
   encouraged to contact the Program upon their appointment; however, the
   final selections cannot be made until he or she has received Senate
   confirmation. The more attention the ambassador can give to the
   development of the exhibition, the more satisfied he or she will be
   with the end result.

   The possibilities of different mediums in the exhibition include,
   paintings, sculpture, textiles, crafts, works on paper, mixed media and
   photography. High value works of art are not recommended if
   environmental and/or security factors are of concern.

   Upon appointment, the ambassador (spouse), and curator discuss
   potential thematic and aesthetic possibilities for the exhibition. The
   curator will recommend potential themes, making every effort to elicit
   the ambassador's input with the goal of exhibiting a cohesive
   exhibition of art. The floor plans of the Embassy residence (EMR) are
   viewed and discussed as are available photographs and videos.

   Once an idea for the exhibition has been conceived and agreed upon, the
   curator begins to research, develop, identify, and recommend specific
   artists and works of art for an exhibition. Prospective lenders
   typically include artists, galleries, private collectors, corporate
   collections, and museums (if the Post has a museum approved facility
   report).

   In addition to advising the ambassador, the curator is responsible for
   cultivating new lending sources, as well as maintaining and expanding
   existing sources. Ambassadors are encouraged to recommend lending
   sources with whom they may have existing relationships.

   In subsequent meetings, the curator will present slides,
   transparencies, and photographs of works that are potentially available
   for an exhibition. Based upon the schedules of the ambassador and
   curator, ambassadors are encouraged to accompany the curator to
   artists. studios, galleries, private collections and museums.

   The available "representational space" and the ambassador's regional
   bureau shipping budget for the EMR determine the number of pieces
   selected for the exhibition. A typical exhibition will contain an
   average of 8 to 15 works of art.

   The curator acts as the primary liaison between the ambassador, the
   lender and AIEP staff. The curator negotiates both verbal and
   contractual loan agreements.

   The amount of time required to curate an exhibition takes approximately
   six months from the initial meeting to the arrival of the exhibition at
   Post. The time-line is effected by the following factors:
     * Shipping budget
     * Lender locale availability and accessibility of specific works
     * Lender time-line
     * Number of exhibition lenders
     * Environmental and security issues at Post
     * Sale of artwork previously designated for loan
     * Size and weight of works
     * Museum requirements
     * Holidays
     * Airfreight schedules and fine art handling contractors availability
     * Accessibility of Post in relation to regularly scheduled air/ground
       transportation
     * Special crating requirements
     * Workload of the AIEP staff

   Repository

   A small collection of American art, donated by supporters of AIEP and
   its mission, is housed in an on-site repository. This art consists
   primarily of works on paper and includes paintings, watercolors, prints
   and drawings.

   In order to meet museum standards and the requirements of some lenders,
   completed facility reports are required to assess security and
   environmental conditions. Recognizing some of the demanding
   requirements, loans from the AIEP permanent collection are readily
   available. Simplified documentation and logistics permit the pieces in
   the permanent collection to be shipped quickly and cost effectively.

   Documenting the Exhibition: Forms and Reports

   Art in Embassies and the lenders who support the Program require shared
   information and agreements. Since the works of art are on loan, most of
   the paperwork involved is related to documentation for insurance and
   international shipping purposes.

   Loan Forms

   Loan forms document details of loan agreements including:
     * Title of each work of art
     * Artist
     * Medium
     * Dimensions
     * Insurance Value
     * Condition of Loan
     * Credit Line

   Loan forms are the legal agreements between Art in Embassies and the
   lenders. No work of art is insured until all parties execute this
   agreement. Therefore, no movement of art involved in any ambassadorial
   exhibition will occur under any circumstances until this form is signed
   and on file at the offices of Art in Embassies. This is the most
   frequent cause of delay in shipment to Post. The registrar begins
   consolidation only upon receipt of all signed loan forms from lenders.

   Facility Reports

   When an ambassador or curator is interested in borrowing from a museum,
   the curator is required to ask the GSO at Post to complete a Facility
   Report. This thirteen-page questionnaire asks detailed questions about
   the physical conditions at the EMR. The questions include building
   construction and configuration, climate conditions (temperature,
   humidity, and lighting), fire protection and security conditions.

   Prompt completion of the Facility Report expedites the art exhibition
   process. Museum lenders customarily use these reports to determine the
   feasibility of a loan requested by the curator on behalf of the
   ambassador.


   Condition Reports

   A condition report describes the condition of the crates and works of
   art before installation and during pack-out. It describes changes, if
   any, to the work of art. Condition reports are required documentation
   should an insurance claim be filed.

   Sound crates and proper handling reduce the risk of damage to art. When
   exhibitions arrive at Post or are packed for return, look closely at
   each work of art and using the basic descriptive terms below, note any
   damage or peculiarity on the Condition Report. When describing a
   problem, please mention size of problem at the largest point, i.e., 2
   inch crack in varnish lower left, and draw a diagram on the form.


   Useful Terms for Completing Condition Reports

   Fabric Support

   Canvas, linen, silk, or other fabric which serves as the surface of a
   painting can be described as taut, loose, buckling, pulling at corners
   (specify which corner), torn, wrinkled or warped.

   Frame

   Miter joints closed or open, any losses, missing pieces, chipping,
   gesso (white undercoating) loss, scratches, dents, hardware, glazing,
   foxing

   Paint

   Losses (no paint left, canvas exposed,) flaking (no paint, gesso
   exposed or undercoat,) abrasion, scratches, craquelure or crazing
   (fissures on surface,) unstable (paint appears to have lifted from
   gesso or canvas but has not fallen off) stains, dirt, smudges

   Other useful terms

   fingerprint, dent, blister, abrasion, chip, chalking, discoloration,
   pinhole, previous repair, inherent vice (due to the nature of the
   medium), mildew, oxidation, mold, tear

   Paper support

   torn, unhinged, warped, wrinkled, smudges

   Varnish

   flaking, abrasion, streaking, discoloration, brittle, crackling,
   sticky, yellowing


   Embassy Agreement Form

   A form signed by the ambassador, administrative officer, and the
   general services officer (GSO) acknowledging receipt of AIEP art
   exhibition and instructions, as outlined in 6FAM. This form commits the
   ambassador to the safe and prompt return of the art exhibition - in
   their original crates, prior to the ambassador. s departure from Post.

   Embassy Personnel Performance Report

   This form describes how the shipment was received and handled from the
   airport to the EMR. Return the original to your curator to be kept on
   file at AIEP. A copy of the performance report should be kept on file
   at Post during the installation period of the exhibition. It contains
   pertinent information for the return shipment.

   With the frequent turnover rate of personnel at most Posts, AIEP has
   found this report to be an invaluable tool. Make sure it remains easily
   accessible. If the shipment was successful (meaning uneventful), then
   the process is reversed. If there were problems noted, then Post
   personnel will know to avoid them.


   Shipment of the Exhibition to Post: Working With the Registrar

   The AIEP registrar is the point of contact for shipping. Just as a
   curator helps the ambassador assemble the exhibition, the registrar
   works with the curator and GSO to insure each work of art is fully
   documented and available for shipping to Post. Most exhibition
   consolidation covers many cities in the U.S. and takes several weeks to
   complete.

   To begin the outgoing procedure for shipments to Post, the registrar
   assigned to the exhibition makes certain all works selected by the
   ambassador are consolidated, packed, crated, and ready for shipment. In
   order AIEP to provide Posts with accurate shipping costs or arrange for
   the pick-up of works of art, loan forms must be signed by lenders and
   on file in Art in Embassies offices. This is a precautionary step for
   insurance purposes.

   Once loan forms are on file, the AIEP registrar will begin coordinating
   costs. The registrar develops a budget for shipping based on cost
   estimates provided by vendors specializing in art transport. The budget
   is then submitted to the ambassador. s regional bureau for funding
   approval. Post expenses for airport pick-up and installation are not
   included in the estimates. The registrar can assist Post in securing
   local vendors who specialize in transportation and installation.

   Post is required to provide AIEP with a specific fund cite where funds
   have been obligated for use to cover expenditures. It is recommended
   that the Posts provide the necessary funding up front and receive
   reimbursement after the fact. This will assure to postponement due to
   insufficient funds.

   The registrar informs the GSO when the shipment can be expected. An
   average exhibition will take approximately six months from first
   meeting between the curator and ambassador to delivery at EMR.

   An air waybill (AWB) number will be included in a cable sent to Post
   with crate list, itinerary, and other information about the exhibition
   useful for clearing shipment into the country. The AWB can also be
   faxed if local authorities require a copy.

   AIEP recommends GSO contact the air carrier's local representative
   before going to the airport, to confirm whether the cargo attached to
   the AWB is arriving as scheduled. The shipment should be met at the
   airport and delivered directly to the EMR and brought indoors. Under no
   circumstances should the full crates remain outdoors. If a shipment is
   not arriving as scheduled, contact AIEP immediately so the shipment can
   be tracked and crates secured until the next available flight.

   Post personnel must supervise handling of all crates at airport and by
   commercial truckers.

   For any questions or guidance, please contact the registrar who can be
   reached by telephone, fax, cable or email, depending on the nature of
   the problem.


   Supplemental Funds for Shipping

   In every case where funding for consolidation, crating and shipping
   exceed the allotted funds by bureau, AIEP must have the ambassador's
   authorization in writing that he/she or the Post will guarantee all
   shipping costs that exceed bureau funding. This letter must be on file
   at AIEP offices before shipment logistics can begin. All supplemental
   funding, (Post, corporate, private, or personally guaranteed by the
   ambassador) must be received by AIEP before shipping can commence.
   There can be no exceptions.

   Post will need to provide AIEP with fiscal data verification that all
   supplemental funds, meaning not direct from bureau, (Post, corporate,
   private, or personally guaranteed by the ambassador) have been
   deposited to cover expenses& before consolidation can begin. There can
   be no exceptions! The Art in Embassies Program has no funds for crating
   or shipping works of art. Bureau, post, ambassador or supplemental
   funding guaranteed by the ambassador pays 100% of the cost. To assure
   no delays due to insufficient funds, Post is asked to provide all
   up-front supplemental funding and obtain direct reimbursement from gift
   funds after the fact.


   The Installation Process

   The GSO will be required to arrange or supervise art handling in a
   variety of situations. Special art handling is generally requested for
   works of art that are fragile, of high value, of historic importance or
   as a condition of the lender. For instance, in some cases, museum
   lenders require a specialist to supervise packing and accompany the art
   while in transit. In others, the use of a local art-handling
   professional will be required. The AIEP registrar will notify the GSO
   of special art handling requirements and will, in many cases, suggest a
   local art handling service. All Posts are encouraged to develop
   contacts with local art specialists.

   The following common threats to works of art, sculpture, and fabric
   should be noted if excessive, and avoided when placing the works of
   art:
     * Heat
     * Pests
     * Moisture
     * Lights
     * Liquids


   For example:

     * Avoid proximity to frequently used doorways where temperature may
       change dramatically or foot traffic is dense.
     * Avoid food service areas, candles, working fireplaces, radiators,
       steam pipes, de-humidifiers, air-conditioners or any other device
       which modifies local temperature.
     * Direct sunlight can fade ink, paints, and finishes, as can
       fluorescent lights.
     * If placement is too exposed to UV light without protection, Post is
       requested to move work of art or obtain shielding filters.
     * Ultraviolet light can be filtered with a UV treatment or blocked
       with something as low tech as curtains.
     * Low-watt incandescent bulbs are the least damaging form of
       lighting.


   Handling of the Works of Art

   Occasionally, the GSO and Post personnel may be called upon to
   supervise and perform basic art handling.

   Careful handling Reduces Risk

   Art handling will take place only when it is clearly required, agreed
   to, planned, and scheduled by all responsible parties.

   Take Time

   Identify the supervisor of the specific art handling activity and be
   sure it is clear to everyone who is in charge. All working comments
   should be directed to the supervisor, and no other person should issue
   comments or instructions to the crew. Do not give directions unless you
   are in charge; accept directions only from the person in charge.
   Address suggestions or comments only to that person.

   Always plan art handling carefully, understanding every move.
   Communicate the plan fully to the art handlers, and once you have
   begun, follow through. Be sure the art handlers understand precisely
   what they are to do. Understand exactly the movements you will make
   before handling a work of art.

   Never ask art-handling personnel to tackle a job they feel to be beyond
   their level of experience and confidence.

   Pay close attention to art handling in process, and avoid distraction.
   Vigilance reduces error. Never urge haste. Move slowly and deliberately
   while carrying art.

   When wrapping or unwrapping art, never allow tape or adhesive to touch
   any part of the piece. Tape removed during unwrapping should be
   discarded immediately away from the art-handling area. In order to
   control the wrapping materials and the work of art, you must have a
   clean, empty, covered tabletop, accessible from all angles.

   Check the condition of the work of art, and note the features of its
   position, installation and fastening, if any, before making a move.
   Look for existing damage before you move, and point out to other
   responsible personnel. Careful observation can protect you from blame,
   and save the work of art from further harm.


   If there are any doubts about worsening the condition of a work of art
   by moving it, ask for the assistance of an art specialist. Refuse to
   undertake any move if you feel you have insufficient knowledge,
   manpower, or that there are obvious hazards.

   Remember that too many hands are as dangerous as too few. The
   supervisor must determine that art is handled by an appropriate number
   of handlers.

   Handle only one work of art at a time, no matter how small or easy to
   carry. Always use both hands when picking up and carrying.

   Even when works of art are small and easily managed, a minimum of two
   people are required to move art carefully - one to open doors, watch
   for hazards, and provide other support and direction.

   Never walk backwards when handling art. Always be aware of what is
   behind you and how close you are to it.

   Before carrying a work of art through a doorway, be certain to pick it
   up in the orientation that will allow it to pass through easily. Avoid
   changing your grip. Measure the doorway and the work of art when
   planning the movement. If there is a door, be sure someone is assigned
   to control movement through it.

   Treat every work of art as if it were the most important. The physical
   handling characteristics of each item and the safety of art handlers
   should be the only considerations.

   No smoking during art handling projects

   Handle works of art with clean gloves at all times. Dirt, moisture and
   oils from fingers and hands or dirty gloves can cause serious
   disfigurement or damage to art. Smudges or fingerprints can worsen over
   time and are often impossible to fully remove. Using white cotton
   gloves and clean hands avoids this source of damage.

   Carry works of art no further than necessary. Bring vehicles as close
   as is practical, rather than taking the art an unnecessary distance to
   the vehicle. Use extra care in handling wrapped paintings. It may be
   difficult to obtain a secure grip through wrappings, and it will be
   almost impossible to see any problems with the condition of work of art
   inside.

   Always hold paintings by placing your hands on the edges, taking care
   not to press your fingers, thumbs or palms into the front or back
   surfaces. Never touch the front or back of a painting canvas or place
   your hand around cross bars or edge bars on the back of a painting. If
   these bars are used as handles, fingers and knuckles will touch the
   back of the painting and invisible but latent damage may occur. Modern
   research and experience have shown that the slightest bump today may
   cause a disfiguring pattern of cracks to develop in the future.

   Before picking up a painting, be sure it is secure in its frame. Do not
   carry paintings by the top or by one side. Hold paintings with one hand
   beneath and one hand on the side of the frame, or with one hand on
   either side, whichever seems more stable in the circumstances.

   Hold paintings at points where the frame is solid and strong, never on
   ornaments, which may be fragile even though they may have a handle-like
   appearance.

   Do not set paintings down balanced by one corner on the floor and one
   in your hand. Either hold the painting correctly or set it down
   completely.

   Before hanging a painting, be sure its hanging devices are firmly
   mounted.

   Sculpture that can not be moved or lifted easily by one person will
   require the attention of professional art handlers. Always have at
   least two people present for all art handling situations.

   Consider several ways of placing your hands to grip a work of art
   firmly before handling.

   Begin moving or lifting slowly and deliberately to check the balance of
   your grip and to detect any resistance in removing a piece from its
   base, mount or resting-place. Sometimes an adhesive or wax is used to
   prevent a sculpture from wobbling on a pedestal. If this is the case,
   before lifting, use a taut length of monofilament held in both hands
   and run under base severing base from wax or adhesive. Be sure a second
   person is holding the object when this is done.

   Release your grip slowly and deliberately, assuring that the piece will
   rest securely where placed.

   Never handle or lift by a projecting feature. Support the work of art
   with one hand underneath and steady it with a secure grip on the body
   of the piece with the other hand.

   For smaller objects, lift by sliding one hand underneath, while
   steadying the body of the piece with the other.

   When unwrapping and unpacking or re-wrapping and packing, place a pad
   on a large tabletop, and set the object down on its most stable
   surface. Vertical pieces, for instance, should be laid gently on the
   most stable side, and some bowls or vessels are much wider at the brim
   than the foot; they should be set down for wrapping in an inverted
   position.

   These procedures are adapted from "Rules for Handling Works of Art" by
   Dorothy Dudley and Irma Bezold Wilkinson.


   Insurance

   AIEP insured exhibitions may only be placed in representational rooms,
   that is, rooms where the public is entertained. Insurance regulations
   prohibit installation in private rooms of the EMR or other buildings.
   Works of art are not the property of the ambassador but rather of a
   generous lender to whom the Program is contractually obligated.

   All works of art at Post that are on loan through the Art in Embassies
   Program are insured with a fine arts insurance policy. Even though Post
   provides the best care and follows all the instructions above, damage
   does occur. When it happens, please contact AIEP immediately by phone,
   fax, cable or e-mail. Assistance and instructions will be provided.

   Leave the work of art where it was when the damage occurred. If the
   space is a high traffic area, find a secure area to store the object.

   Take photographs of the object, close ups of the damage and
   photo-document any packing materials or other information that may be
   pertinent to the occurrence of damage.

   Do not attempt any restoration or conservation. Unauthorized
   restorations nullify insurance coverage. The owner of the work of art
   has to approve any conservation prior to treatment.

   Department and Embassy personnel are protected from subrogation by
   language specifically provided in the policy. War and terrorism
   coverage is also included.


   Exhibition Information

   Labels

   A custom made label for each work of art will accompany the shipment.
   Labels are to be placed on the wall next to the work of art and affixed
   six inches or so from the lower outermost edge with museum wax. This
   wax may soften over time as it is made of bee. s wax. Care should be
   taken when using museum wax on plaster, fabric and some water-based
   paints. Placing labels nearby on a sideboard or table is fine if it
   makes sense.

   Lighting

   The proper lighting of works of art is difficult in controlled spaces
   such as museums and galleries and will be even more difficult to
   regulate in a residential environment. However, this can be done
   successfully.

   The most general and effective lighting method is to position two
   lamps, three feet from the wall in front of the work of art either
   recessed or track installed. This provides enough space for overall
   safe illumination. Most residences do not have this type of lighting
   system. Experimenting with different lamps available with various works
   of art for maximum effect may be the only option. Please remember not
   to position lamps too close to any work of art. The heat released from
   incandescent bulbs is dangerous to works of art.

   Do not use picture lamps. Attaching them to the backs of works of art
   can cause structural support damage. The close proximity of the lamps
   can cause various forms of deterioration due to heat and ultraviolet
   radiation


   Special Care and Handling

   Check the loan agreement for special handling instructions. If none are
   indicated, the art is not to be touched under any circumstances. In the
   absence of care and cleaning instructions from the lender, works of art
   and sculpture are not to be cleaned either routinely or otherwise as
   virtually any common household cleaning agent may damage varnish,
   paint, gold-leaf, and patina.

   Plexiglass may be cleaned with specially formulated cleaners made for
   plexiglass. Apply first to paper or fabrics designed for the cleaning
   of optical lenses. Do not use soap or ammonia-based detergents.


   Catalogs

   Ambassadors are urged to publish an illustrated catalog of the Art in
   Embassies Program exhibition. The catalog serves as a cultural tool for
   the ambassador, as well as, a means of documenting the exhibition,
   promoting the artists, and acknowledging the generosity of the lenders.

   The catalog typically features a statement from the ambassador and a
   photograph of the ambassadorial family; a descriptive statement about
   the Program; an image of each artwork along with necessary credit
   information; and installation shots of the exhibition. The curator will
   provide biographical information upon request, as well as, assist with
   content. AIEP must review contents and credit information prior to
   publication.

   The Friends of Art and Preservation in Embassies (FAPE), a
   non-governmental 501©3 corporation was founded to assist the Department
   and AIEP through loans and donations of art that is placed in American
   embassy residences and chanceries worldwide. FAPE has agreed to provide
   funding for exhibition catalogs and may be contacted directly for
   further details.

   The ambassador may also seek catalog funding from potential donors that
   have no business before the Embassy or the Department of State. All
   funding requests must be cleared through the Department before
   proceeding.


   Lender Recognition

   Lenders greatly appreciate letters from both the ambassador and the
   director of AIEP.

   Thank you letters from the ambassador on official stationery recognizes
   the generosity of our lenders and have become highly prized momentos.
   We ask that an installation photograph preferably with the ambassador
   and/or spouse next to the loaned work of art be included.

   It is urged that ambassadors thank their lenders soon after the
   exhibition is installed in the EMR. To assist the ambassador, the
   curator will provide a report with the necessary contact information.

   Hosting an opening reception either at the time of installation or soon
   afterward, has become a valued introduction to the exhibition. It is
   recommended that this be coordinated in advance with invitations going
   to the lenders and artists, as many times they arrange to attend.


   Return Shipment of the Exhibition

   As soon as it is clear the ambassador is leaving Post, AIEP should be
   notified so that an orderly and timely return shipment can be
   organized. An accurate timeline usually prevents mishaps that are
   caused by hurried last-minute arrangements. AIEP prefers the art to be
   packed and shipped before the general pack-out occurs and certainly
   well before any re-furbishment of the EMR is started. The exhibition
   must be returned before the ambassador leaves Post. Our loan agreements
   with lenders are valid only for that ambassador. s tour of duty.

   When shipments are returning from Post, the GSO notifies the registrar
   of the ambassador. s pending departure, locates the crates, confirms
   the ship list, and solicits cost of freight to JFK. AIEP will send a
   front channel cable with basic instructions and a request for an
   air-freight estimate which, when combined with U.S. transport charges,
   will be funded by the bureau. AIEP will then cable Post with the fiscal
   data provided by the bureau as authorization to book the airfreight.
   Post confirms booking of the airfreight and the GSO faxes the AWB to
   USDA and AIEP several days before the scheduled departure.

   Fine art shipping representatives contracted by AIEP will meet the
   cargo and disperse to the lenders.

   With the pack-out, if the work of art looks fine please write "no
   change" on the condition report. On occasion, contacting a local museum
   professional is necessary for complete unassailable documentation of
   damage.

   Packing

   When packing, simply reverse the sequence of crate arrival:

    1. Open crates
    2. Remove packing material
    3. Write condition reports
    4. Wrap works of art
    5. Place in trays
    6. Seal crate
    7. Store upright until loaded onto truck to airport

   As before, use of a fine art packing company is preferred and may be
   required (if so Post will be notified by AIEP). In some instances,
   especially if a museum has lent works of art, a courier will be sent to
   assist packing and accompany crates door-to-door.

   It is important that the directional arrows stenciled on the exterior
   of crate are followed. Transit such as take-off and landings can be
   bumpy and the contents of each crate have been specifically and safely
   braced for jolts in expected ways.

   As all exhibitions are shipped by truck and airfreight, certain height
   restrictions apply. Most Posts are serviced by wide-bodied airplanes
   whose cargo doors will allow for crates 63 inches high. A few airports
   receive cargo freighters, which have doors twice as large.

   Sometimes crates, which are larger "ride flat" but this is only done
   when the crate has been reinforced, as invariably the crate will be
   loaded at the bottom of a pallet. It is possible to request
   "top-loading" for a crate "riding flat" but this generally requires
   good liaison with the airline, usually provided by the
   freight-forwarding company. If "riding flat" is necessary from Post to
   the U.S., contact the registrar who will request approval from the
   lenders of the art, so that all concerned will be aware of the added
   risk.


   Customs Clearance

   Export customs clearance should be done before delivery to airport:

   Ship crates under international air waybill to terminate at port of
   entry (in most cases JFK and unless instructed otherwise) and consign
   to U.S. Despatch Agency for customs clearance as follows:
   United States Despatch Agency
       U.S. Department Of State
       JFK International Airport

   Arrival Notification

   To clear customs immediately party to be notified upon arrival must be:
   U.S. Despatch Agency
       tel: 718 553-1692
       fax: 718 553-1740

   Post representative must verify on air waybill that U.S. Despatch
   Agency is listed as party to be notified upon arrival. The Despatch
   agent will issue a GBL for transportation from JFK to final U.S.
   destinations. Indicate "no value declared" on air waybill. Insurance
   coverage is already in effect.


   Marking the Crates

   Crates should be marked:
    Destination:
   United States Despatch Agency
       JFK International Airport,
       Crate (number) of (number), (i.e., crate 1 of 4)
       for A.I.E.P.,
       U.S. Department Of State
       Air Waybill number

   Finally, Post must forward air waybill to registrar and U.S. Despatch
   Agency at least three work days prior to shipment.

                             Contact Information

                          Art in Embassies Program
                           U.S. Department of Stat
                                EM/OBO/OM/ART
                           Washington, D.C. 20520
                                703-875-4202
                              FAX: 703-875-4182

                       E-mail (staff member)@state.gov


   6FAM

   774 Art in Embassies Program

   (TL:GS-43;4-27-96)

   A/FBO/OPS/ART administers loans and donations of American works of art
   from the public and private sectors. Exhibitions are assembled at the
   request of an ambassador or the U.S. representative to a U.N. agency
   abroad when PO for display in the official residence. The artwork
   provides a suitable backdrop for representational activities and
   enhances the communication of American values and cultural diversity
   through the display of American art. This program depends on regional
   bureau policy and budget, shipping constraints, Post facilities, and
   climactic and security conditions (see 6 FAM 779.3). Additional
   information is available in A/FBO/OPS/Art's Guidelines for the Art in
   Embassies Program.

   779.3 Art in Embassies Program Requirements

   (TL:GS-43;4-27-96)

   a. Responsibilities: A/FBO/OPS/ART arranges the loan and/or donation;
   assembles, crates, and ships the artwork to Post; and arranges and
   funds the fine arts insurance. The regional bureau funds packing and
   shipping costs. It is the responsibility of the Post and the ambassador
   to follow the exact instructions of the insurer and A/FBO/OPS/ART for
   the care, handling, and safekeeping of the artwork. The ambassador must
   ensure full observance of the terms of the loan agreement and the
   return of the artwork. (See 6 FAM 221.6-10 for employee
   responsibilities related to personal property and 6 FAM 221.8-2(c)(2)
   for penalties for non-compliance.

   b. Receiving Art: A/FBO/OPS/ART by cable, provides Post with a detailed
   inventory and instructions for unpacking and handling before arrival of
   the artwork, followed by comprehensive information concerning care and
   safekeeping.

   c. Preservation of Shipping Materials: Shipping crates and packing
   material must be retained in a climate controlled area, preferably at
   the ambassador's residence, for the eventual return of the artwork.

   d. Safeguarding Art During Display: Artwork should be placed away from
   the flow of traffic. A/FBO/OPS/ART monitors the location and condition
   at Post. During any renovation or repair near the artwork, the
   insurance requires wrapping and packing the art in the original crates
   as described for return. Moving art to any storage facility is
   prohibited without first notifying A/FBO/OPS/ART.

   e. Return of Art: Art must be packed and shipped to the Department
   under the ambassador's recognizance. A/FBO/OPS/ART provides complete
   instruction. The artwork must be returned prior to the ambassador's
   final departure from Post. A U.S. citizen employee must supervise all
   packing.

   f. Art at Posts in Crisis: Art is subject to recall by A/FBO/OPS/ART
   with clearance by the regional bureau executive director. If a Post is
   currently in crisis, A/FBO can only offer art from the GO collection.

   Copyright by Art In Embassies Program, U.S. Department of State, 2000
   Privacy Notice | Disclaimers
