http://www.trucks.doe.gov/message.html

   image image
         image                         image image
         image             image image
                                       image
                           image
         image image image
                                             image image image
                           image image image
                                                   image
               image             image

   image

   Message from the Director

   In March 1996, the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Heavy Vehicle
   Technologies (OHVT) was created to address the energy efficiency
   challenges facing the manufacturers, suppliers, and users of heavy
   transport vehicles, including trucks, buses, rail, off-highway
   (construction, farming, forestry, and mining) equipment, and inland
   marine. OHVT's mission: work with industry partners and their suppliers
   to research and develop technologies that make heavy vehicles more
   energy efficient and able to use alternative fuels, while reducing
   vehicle emissions.

   Why do we need more energy efficient heavy vehicles? The answer is that
   our nation's economic health depends on these vehicles, which transport
   the bulk of our country's goods. Essentially all of the increase in
   highway transportation fuel use since 1973 has been due to trucks. In
   fact, in 1996, highway energy use by trucks exceeded that of
   automobiles for the first time. More energy efficient trucks means
   lower transportation costs and lower costs to deliver goods to homes
   and businesses.

   OHVT created a strong customer-focused national program in
   collaboration with industry partners and their suppliers to address
   this important issue. OHVT's programs pursue two product lines for
   heavy vehicles: high-efficiency clean diesel and natural gas
   technologies.

   Today, most heavy vehicles are powered by diesel-fueled engines, and
   are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. OHVT and its
   partners and customers envision the development of an energy-efficient,
   very-low-emissions, "clean diesel" engine for all truck classes. This
   engine could significantly reduce the rate of growth in transportation
   energy use in commercial transport without disruption to the vital
   delivery of goods. This engine also creates opportunities to reduce
   energy consumption in the rapidly-growing multipurpose vehicle market
   (pickup trucks, vans, and sport utility vehicles).

   Clean diesel technology will erase the old perceptions about diesel and
   will demonstrate that heavy vehicles can be energy-efficient without
   harming the environment. In fact, since 1970, advances in diesel
   technology have steadily increased fuel efficiency, while
   simultaneously reducing particulate emissions by 95% and nitrogen
   oxides by 70%.

   Our efforts to develop natural gas technologies for heavy vehicles
   recognizes that additional opportunities exist to reduce dependence on
   imported petroleum while decreasing emissions. OHVT's efforts have
   focused on compressed natural gas (CNG) for local, short-haul trucks
   and buses, and on liquefied natural gas (LNG) for long-haul trucks.

   The future poses major challenges for heavy vehicles, but today's OHVT
   collaborative research promises to deliver tomorrow's successful
   solutions. OHVT and our industry partners will continue to pursue
   technologies that enable heavy vehicles to remain competitive and
   reliable in the face of a volatile fuels marketplace. This work will
   help our nation to look forward with confidence to continued strong
   economic growth in the new millennium.

   Sincerely,

   James J. Eberhardt, Ph.D
   Director - Office of Heavy Vehicle Technologies


     Home | Contact Us | Links | Glossary | Message from the Director |
                                 What's New
   Plain Talk on Trucks | Research Areas | Publications | Calendar | Site
                                   Index
                  Privacy and Security Notice | Disclaimer

   image image image image image image image image image image image
