http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/chemicals.pdf

   Analysis of Biomedical Text for Chemical Names: A Comparison of Three
   Methods W. John Wilbur , MD, PhD, George F. Hazard, Jr. , PhD, Guy
   Divita§, MS, James G. Mork§, MS, Alan R. Aronson§, PhD, Allen C.
   Browne§, MS National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI),
   Division of Specialized Information Services (SIS), §Lister Hill
   National Center for Biomedical Communications (LHNCBC) National Library
   of Medicine, Bethesda, MD 20894 At the National Library of Medicine
   (NLM), a variety such as zidovudine, trade names such as Maximum of
   biomedical vocabularies are found in data perti- Strength Bayer Aspirin
   Caplets, company codes such nent to its mission. In addition to
   standard medical as SKF-98625, and formulations such as Zovirax
   terminology, there are specialized vocabularies 250mg i-v infusion (pdr
   for recon). including that of chemical nomenclature. Normal lan- guage
   tools including the lexically based ones used by The Natural Language
   Systems (NLS) program at the Unified Medical Language System® (UMLS®)
   to NLM has produced a variety of tools which process manipulate and
   normalize text do not work well on text. These tools include Lexical
   Variant Generator chemical nomenclature. In order to improve NLM's
   (LVG)4 which allows abstracting away from lexical capabilities in
   chemical text processing, two variation and MetaMap5 which maps free
   text to con- approaches to the problem of recognizing chemical cepts in
   the Metathesaurus. The tools are oriented nomenclature were explored.
   The first approach was a toward standard medical terminology and do not
   han- lexical one and consisted of analyzing text for the dle the
   manipulation of chemical names well. Con- presence of a fixed set of
   chemical segments. The sider the text ... the effect of the adenosine
   receptor approach was extended with general chemical pat- agonist
   5'-(N-ethylcarboxamido)adenosine (NECA) terns and also with terms from
   NLM's indexing .... MetaMap fragments the chemical into three
   vocabulary, MeSH®, and the NLM SPECIALISTTM phrases, 5'-,
   (N-ethylcarboxamido and )adenosine lexicon. The second approach applied
   Bayesian clas- because of the embedded parentheses. The fragmenta-
   sification to n-grams of text via two different methods. tion prevents
   adequate search for matching concepts The single lexical method and two
   statistical methods in the Metathesaurus. Even if the fragmentation
   were were tested against data from the 1999 UMLS Meta- prevented,
   matching would be difficult because the thesaurus®. One of the
   statistical methods had an closest Metathesaurus string to the text is
   5'-N-Ethyl- overall classification accuracy of 97%.
   carboxamidoadenosine which has no parentheses. The presence of the
   acronym NECA in the text facili- INTRODUCTION tates mapping since NECA
   does occur in the Meta- thesaurus, but proper handling of the full
   chemical Chemical nomenclature is used to represent a chemi- name is
   still required. cal concept in text. Systematic nomenclature is highly
   conjunctive, in that a single unbroken string can con- NLS projects
   have begun collaborative efforts to tain multiple concepts. Programs to
   un-embed impor- improve the treatment of chemicals. The long-term tant
   chemical concepts were originally developed for goal is to correctly
   classify chemical terms occurring printed indexes1. This concept was
   extended later to in text for use in phrase extraction, indexing (of
   both online nomenclature retrieval, using a new algorithm2.
   Metathesaurus concepts and bibliographic citations), Recently a method
   to detect chemical names in synonym recognition and other text analysis
   applica- SGML patent text using segments and statistical tions. The
   immediate goal is to automatically recog- methods has been described3.
   nize chemical terms in order to avoid subjecting them to inappropriate
   processing. The UMLS Metathesaurus contains over 350,000 chemical
   English terms represented by a variety of One approach to classifying
   chemical terms is based types of nomenclature. There are systematic
   names on the segmentation algorithms described above. The such as
   1,2-dimethoxyethane, which describe the idea is to classify chemical
   terms by eliciting their chemical structure, as well as generic drug
   names chemical structure based on chemically meaningful segments. This
   approach requires a priori identifica- otherwise classified using
   information from the SPE- tion of segments that might be found in
   chemical CIALIST lexicon in an effort to identify nonchemical
   nomenclature. components embedded within chemical terms. How- Another
   approach to the chemical name classification ever, the lexicon also
   contains some chemicals which problem is to use naive Bayesian
   classifiers6,7,8. Such have been marked as such through a variety of
   meth- an approach has the advantage of requiring no a priori ods. A
   final heuristic was added that consists of con- knowledge of chemical
   name characteristics. If sulting a small list of terms such as disease
   and selected attributes occur independently in data, a syndrome which
   completely disqualify a term being naive Bayesian classifier will give
   ideal performance. considered a chemical. The result of this
   segmentation Of course it is possible for attributes to have strong
   provides both a lexical analysis of chemical terms and
   interdependencies, and in that case one may obtain the means to
   classify them. better performance from a classifier of the rule-based
   Once a term has been segmented, the segmentation type. But we have
   chosen the attributes to have more algorithm assigns a score to each
   term representing of a soft or statistical character. the degree to
   which the term is a chemical. The scor- ing function has three
   components: provenance, cohe- METHODS siveness, and coverage.
   Provenance computes the The Segmentation Approach (SEG method) number
   of known chemical segments in a term. Seg- Initially, we decided to
   exploit the structure of chemi- ments from the chemical morpheme list
   and its sup- cal terms, analyzing them into their constituent chem-
   plemental lists give a term a higher provenance score. ical morphemes.
   We established a list of chemical Certain patterns identified by
   regular expression morpheme segments and used the algorithm described
   matching also contribute to the provenance score. It is in the Registry
   File Basic Name Segment Dictionary2 characteristic of chemical terms to
   contain internal to analyze chemical terms into constituents. The algo-
   punctuation. Provenance scores are therefore adjusted rithm matches the
   longest left-most segment and pro- to take into account the amount of
   punctuation in a ceeds across the term from left to right. If a term is
   term. Cohesiveness and coverage are notions taken analyzable into known
   chemical segment morphemes from the MetaMap algorithm5. Cohesiveness
   mea- we can with a high level of confidence identify the sures the
   maximum number of contiguous segments term as a chemical term. For
   example Triethylamino- and coverage measures how many of the segments
   in propylisothiuronium is analyzed into 8 constituent a term are
   classifiable. The final score is (1/6 Cover- morphemes:
   TRI-ETHYL-AMINO-PROPYL-ISO- age) + (1/6 Coherence) + (2/3 Provenance)
   yielding a THI- URON-IUM. value between 0 and 1. The provenance score,
   which is central to our analysis, has twice as much weight as The
   resulting segmentation algorithm does not handle coherence and coverage
   combined. generic and trade names well, since they are not fully
   constructed of significant systematic chemical seg- The Bayesian
   Classifier Approach (POS and ments. To remedy that situation the
   morpheme list TOTAL methods) was augmented with a list of biomedically
   significant We have implemented and tested the Bayesian classi-
   segments an example of which is the segment stig- fier in two different
   forms and we will describe the mast representing the systematic parent
   of the Sito- methodology in terms of what they have in common sterol
   class. The resulting list consists of 3,724 and then how they differ.
   All implementations depend morpheme segments. We also created a
   supplemental on two parameters. One parameter is a small positive list
   of chemical terms from 84,453 single-word MeSH integer n which must be
   fixed before processing chemical terms. In addition, pattern matching
   with begins. It determines the n-gram size used in produc- regular
   expressions was used to identify recurring pat- ing attributes. When n
   has been fixed, any string STR terns such as numerical locants. These
   modifications in the data set is processed as follows. allowed us to
   handle semi-systematic names such as 1) STR is lowercased.
   3',5'-dichloromethotrexate where 3',5' is a locant pat- 2) STR is
   broken into terms at spaces and these indi- tern, di and chloro are
   systematic segments, and meth- vidual terms are used to produce
   n-grams. Strings otrexate is a generic drug name from MeSH. Pattern of
   length n+k produce k+1 overlapping n-grams, matching was also used to
   identify dosage and mea- while any string of length n or shorter is
   taken as surement patterns and other possibly nonchemical the only
   n-gram produced (for simplicity we shall constituents of terms. A
   variety of other heuristics refer to it as an n-gram even if shorter
   than n). All have been used as well. For example we have aug- such
   n-grams are attributes of STR. mented the approach by identifying
   constituents not 3) The first n-gram produced from each term derived
   retrieval9. The Bayesian score for a string is then from STR is marked
   at the right end by adding the divided by the vector length associated
   with that character `!' and is included as an attribute. string in
   order to produce a final score for ranking As an example suppose n = 4.
   Then if STR is the purposes. This implementation we call the POS Baye-
   string 1-methyl MB, it has attributes: 1-me, -met, sian classifier.
   meth, ethy, thyl, 1-me!, mb and mb!. EVALUATION Once the attributes for
   all strings to be processed have Evaluation of the three methods was
   performed by been assigned, each attribute is assigned a weight
   constructing training and testing sets of both chemi- based on the
   Bayesian formalism. Let nc denote the cals and nonchemicals from the
   strings in the 1999 number of strings that are classed as chemical
   names UMLS Metathesaurus. First the set of (English) in the training
   set and let n denote the number of c strings was divided into chemicals
   and nonchemicals strings that are not classed as chemical names. Let s
   according to semantic type. A string was considered be an arbitrary
   attribute and suppose that in the train- to be chemical if it either
   had semantic type `Clinical ing set ncs denotes the number of chemical
   name Drug' (a child of `Manufactured Object') or was a strings that
   have the attribute and n the number of cs descendent of `Chemical' in
   the semantic hierarchy. nonchemical name strings that have the
   attribute. Four semantic types below `Chemical' were excluded Then the
   weight assigned to the attribute s is given by because of their lack of
   chemical relevancy. Strings of type `Chemical Viewed Functionally', for
   example, ws = log( p(1  q))  log(q(1  p)) include Lipstick and P&S
   Shampoo; and `Immuno- where we define logic Factor' strings include
   HLA-Cw9 antigen and p = (n + ) (n + ) Cryoproteins. The list of
   semantic types defining the cs c 2 . set of chemicals follows with the
   excluded semantic q = (n + ) (n + 2 ) cs c types lined through:
   Chemical Here implements uninformed priors6 and is the sec- Chemical
   Viewed Functionally ond parameter that must be set in order to define
   the Pharmacologic Substance Bayesian classifier. Antibiotic Biomedical
   or Dental Material In addition to the parameters n and which must be
   Biologically Active Substance chosen, we have implemented the Bayesian
   classifier Neuroreactive Substance or Biogenic Amine in what we may
   call two flavors. One is just as Hormone Enzyme described and all
   attributes are weighted whether they Vitamin receive positive or
   negative weights. We will refer to Immunologic Factor this as the TOTAL
   method. It is important to note that Receptor in this approach the
   nonchemicals in the training set Indicator, Reagent, or Diagnostic Aid
   are just as important as the chemicals in discrimina- Hazardous or
   Poisonous Substance Chemical Viewed Structurally tion between the two.
   Thus one may only expect to Organic Chemical achieve top performance if
   the classifier is used to dis- Nucleic Acid, Nucleoside, or Nucleotide
   criminate between chemicals names and strings which Organophosphorus
   Compound are something like the nonchemical strings in the Amino Acid,
   Peptide, or Protein training set. Because the world of nonchemical
   strings Carbohydrate Lipid is much larger than the world of chemical
   strings and Steroid one may not be able to give prior characterization
   to Eicosanoid the environment in which one may wish to detect Inorganic
   Chemical chemical names, we also looked at a version of the Element,
   Ion, or Isotope classifier that only allows positive weights. In this
   ver- ... Clinical Drug sion only the attributes that are more probable
   in the set of chemical names are weighted and all other The
   semantically determined chemical and nonchemi- attributes are given
   zero weight by default. In order to cal sets were each randomly divided
   into training and compensate somewhat for the lack of negative testing
   sets, 2/3 for training and 1/3 for testing. This weights we treat each
   string as a document and the produced a Full Training Set and a Full
   Testset. The attributes as key terms and produce a vector length in two
   statistical methods were trained using the Full the standard way
   employed in vector document Training Set. Because the SEG method was
   developed using the entire 1998 Metathesaurus, however, we three
   methods scoring somewhat less on nonchemi- created a 99 Only Testset
   removing strings that cals than in the Full Testset. Overall
   performance for occurred in the 1998 Metathesaurus from the Full the
   SEG and POS methods declined slightly, but Testset. This ensured that
   the SEG method could be TOTAL's overall performance remained the same
   due tested fairly with data it had not seen before. to an increase in
   its performance for chemicals. The TOTAL method was still the overall
   best scoring RESULTS method. All three methods produce a score for each
   candidate string and a threshold must be chosen above which a
   DISCUSSION score is used to classify a string as a chemical. For For
   both testsets all three classification methods pro- purposes of testing
   and comparison of methods as vide a high level of accuracy. The TOTAL
   method presented here, thresholds were chosen to minimize clearly
   achieves the best results for classifying terms the overall error rate
   for both chemicals and nonchem- and is likely to be useful for both
   indexing and icals. The Bayesian methods also require the setting
   retrieval of such terms as well as detecting chemicals of the n-gram
   size n and the prior confidence level . in free text. However the
   segmentation approach The optimal value of n was found to be 4 for the
   POS offers a lexical analysis of chemical terms which can method and 7
   for the TOTAL method. For both of support tasks in which chemical
   nomenclature is these methods a of 0.01 proved optimal or near
   important. These tasks include recognizing synonyms optimal and was
   used. of a given chemical and normalization of chemical For
   completeness all methods were tested against terms. both the Full and
   99 Only Testsets. The full testset The most important observation
   regarding the Baye- contained 118,034 chemicals and 210,898 nonchemi-
   sian methods was that a of only 0.01 gave a signifi- cals. Each of the
   three methods correctly identified at cant boost to performance when
   compared with a least 84% of the chemicals and 87% of the nonchemi-
   more conventional choice. The usual interpretation of cals (see Table
   1) with the TOTAL method perform- is a number of prior observations so
   that it would be set to a small positive integer, frequently 16. The
   SEG POS TOTAL use of 0.01 has essentially no effect in the calculations
   Method Method Method unless either ncs or n is zero. If, for example
   Chem Found 99,649 103,180 113,571 cs ncs = 0 , it has the effect of
   adding the value % Found 84.4% 87.4% 96.2% log( ) to the weight one
   would have obtained when Nonchem Found 182,388 197,734 204,488 ncs = 1
   . This abrupt change in the weight is a form % Found 86.5% 93.8% 97.0%
   of soft rule that says if an attribute is encountered that Found Wtd.
   Avg. 85.7% 91.5% 96.7% was never seen in a chemical, then it is
   probably not a Missed Wtd. Avg. 14.3% 8.5% 3.3% chemical and the score
   should undergo a quantum Table 1: Results of Full Testset decrease.
   Likewise when an attribute is observed that was never seen in a
   nonchemical in training, the score ing significantly better than the
   other methods. It should undergo a quantum increase by log( ) .
   correctly identified 96% of the chemicals and 97% of With almost 1
   million strings in the Metathesaurus, the nonchemicals. when n is 4
   there are just over 440 thousand attributes Similarly, the 99 Only
   Testset contained 35,113 and when n is 7 there are over 1.3 million
   attributes. chemicals and 44,321 nonchemicals. Each of the three Thus
   it is not easy to hand code all the rules that might methods correctly
   identified at least 84% of both the be useful in distinguishing
   chemicals from nonchemi- chemicals and nonchemicals (see Table 2) with
   all cals. The soft rules are automatically in effect in the Bayesian
   classifiers and allow for some rule like SEG POS TOTAL behavior which
   proves beneficial. Method Method Method Failure analysis Chem Found
   29,494 31,951 34,102 The results of a preliminary failure analysis are
   shown % Found 84.0% 91.0% 97.1% in Table 3. The table shows the number
   of incorrectly Nonchem Found 37,137 40,146 42,700 identified chemicals
   and nonchemicals for each % Found 83.8% 90.6% 96.3% method together
   with the number of failures unique to Found Wtd. Avg. 83.9% 90.8% 96.7%
   the method. The last row gives the number of failures Missed Wtd. Avg.
   16.1% 9.2% 3.3% common to all methods. 266 chemicals were not iden-
   Table 2: Results of 99 Only Testset tified as such by any method.
   Ninety-eight of these had the semantic type `Pharmacologic Substance'.
   ognize higher-order tokens of various types including Agents for
   alcohol related cognitive impairment is an author-defined acronyms and
   chemicals. A more ambitious extension of this work is to com-
   Nonchemicals Chemicals Not Identified bine the strengths of the
   Bayesian classification and Method Identified as Chemicals segmentation
   approaches. We believe that a combined Total Unique Total Unique
   approach would enhance recognition of chemical SEG 5,619 4,656 7,184
   5,107 terms while retaining the segmentation analysis which POS 3,162
   1,893 4,175 1,892 has potential applications to our text analysis
   efforts. TOTAL 1,011 274 1,621 601 We are investigating techniques for
   appropriate lexi- All Methods 266 474 cal normalization of chemical
   terms based on seg- Table 3. Errors (99 Only Testset) mentation. We are
   also investigating techniques to discover the bounds of chemical terms
   so that they example of such a missed chemical. Sixty-four cases can be
   recognized in free text. Recognition of parent had the semantic type
   `Organic Chemical'. Such substituent and modifier segments of chemical
   terms organic chemicals as Jim's juice and Devil's Red were within the
   segmentation analysis is feasible and missed. Examples like these are
   difficult to detect should enable us to recognize synonymy between
   because although they represent chemicals they do not chemical terms.
   have the characteristic pattern of chemical terms. References Some of
   the sixty-four organic chemicals, IS 145 for instance, involved English
   words used as acronyms. 1. Heym DR, Siegel H, Steensland MC, and Vo HV.
   Computer Recognition and Segmentation of Chemi- Many of the failures of
   the SEG and POS methods cally Significant Words for KWIC Indexing. J.
   Chem. were terms composed of two-, three- and four-charac- Inf. Comput.
   Sci., 16:173-176, 1976. ter segments that are acronyms and
   abbreviations. 2. Chemical Abstracts Service. Registry File Basic
   CyH-CHID is an example. Name Segment Dictionary. June, 1993. The TOTAL
   method (using both positive and negative 3. Kemp N and Lynch M.
   Extraction of Information evidence) failed to recognize some chemical
   terms from the Text of Chemical Patents. 1. Identification of involving
   dosages or units of measurement such as Specific Chemical Names. J.
   Chem. Info. Comput. CYCLOSERINE 250 MG capsule. It also failed for
   Sci., 38:544-551, 1998. some terms such as Somnifacient that the SEG 4.
   McCray AT, Srinivasan S, and Browne AC. Lexical method retrieved
   because the terms appeared on one methods for managing variation in
   biomedical termi- of the supplemental lists. nologies. In Ozbolt JG
   (ed.) Proceedings of the 18th All methods had problems identifying
   terms denoting Annual SCAMC, 235-239, 1994. allergies (e.g.,
   Fludrocortisone allergy) as non chemi- 5. Aronson AR, Rindflesch TC,
   and Browne AC. cals. Over half of the shared failures were of this
   vari- Exploiting a large thesaurus for information retrieval. ety.
   Terms involving complex punctuation and Proceedings of RIAO 94,
   197-216, 1994. subterms which denote chemicals caused problems 6.
   Langley P. Elements of Machine Learning. Mor- for both the SEG and POS
   methods. The terms AMY- gan-Kaufmann Publishers, Inc., San Francisco,
   CA, LASE.S1:CCNC:PT:SER:QN and Accid pois - petro- 1996. leum naphtha
   are examples. The TOTAL method had 7. Langley P and Sage S. Induction
   of selective Baye- less trouble with this sort of example. Terms that
   sian classifiers. Proceedings of the Tenth Conference involved
   overdoses and terms that involved intentions on Uncertainty in
   Artificial Intelligence, 399-406, were also missed by the SEG method.
   One example is 1994. Piracetam overdose of undetermined intent. 8.
   Langley P, Iba W, and Thompson K. An analysis of Future work Bayesian
   classifiers. Proceedings of the Tenth A straightforward way of taking
   advantage of the National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 223-
   results described here is to add the TOTAL classifica- 228, 1992. tion
   method to MetaMap's tokenization algorithm. 9. Salton, G. Automatic
   Text Processing. Addison- This is actually being done as part of an
   effort to rec- Wesley, Reading, MA, 1989.
