http://aeldata.phy.nist.gov/Pubs/contents.html

   Publications


   Special Publications

          Optical Radiation Measurement
          A National Measurement System for Radiometry, Photometry, and
          Pyrometry Based upon Absolute Detectors. The history of
          electrical substitution radiometers at NIST is briefly reviewed
          and the implementation of the latest generation absolute
          cryogenic radiometer is discussed. It is proposed that NIST
          customers consider adopting the suggestions made in this
          technical note to simplify and improve their optical radiation
          based calibrations.

          Diatomic Calculations: Equations & Theory  new
          Procedures are described, in this pedagogical monograph, for
          making quantum mechanical calculations of rotational energy
          levels and rotational line intensities in diatomic molecules.
          Polarized Light Scattering Models
          A C++ object class library (SCATMECH) has been developed to
          distribute models for polarized light scattering from surfaces.
          It is the intent of this library to allow researchers in the
          light-scattering community to fully utilize the models described
          in several NIST publications.

          Atomic Spectroscopy
          This article outlines the main concepts of atomic structure,
          with some emphasis on terminology and notation. Atomic radiation
          is discussed, and updated tabulations of ionization energies for
          the neutral atoms and transition probabilities for persistent
          lines of selected neutral atoms are included.

          Bose-Einstein Condensation
          Special issue (July-August 1996) of the Journal of Research of
          the National Institute of Standards and Technology dedicated to
          reporting recent developments in Bose-Einstein condensation and
          related issues such as ultracold atomic collision physics.

   Searchable Bibliography

          NIST Physics Laboratory Staff Publications (after 1991)

   Technical Activities

          The most recent Technical Activities report summarizing research
          projects, measurement method developments, calibration and
          testing services, and data evaluation activities that were
          carried out in the Physics Laboratory.

   Constants, Units, & Uncertainty

          Fundamental physical constants. Article on CODATA values, and
          introduction to constants for nonexperts.

          International System of Units. Publications on SI units, usage,
          history, and legal rulings:
          SP811 HTML or PDF (413 kB)
          SP330 HTML Table of Contents, and PDF (813 kB)

          Measurement uncertainty. Guidelines for expressing uncertainty:
          TN1297 HTML or PDF (136 kB)

                                                                PDF Reader

   Timekeeping

          A Walk Through Time: Descriptive look at the history of
          timekeeping from ancient to modern methods, with a brief
          introduction to NIST Time and Frequency Services.

          FAQ   and   Glossary of Frequency and Timing

   NIST: National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Physics
   Laboratory Home Pages designed and maintained by the Office of ECSED.
   Inquiries or comments: www@physics.nist.gov.
   Online: June 1994   -   Last update: September 2001
