http://bxatac.doc.gov/0619CMIN.htm

   MEMORANDUM



   TO:                 Materials Processing Equipment Technical Advisory
   Committee


   FROM:           Charles F. Carter Jr., Chairman


   DATE:            June 25, 2001


   SUBJECT:     Minutes of Meeting Held on June 19, 2001


   This meeting of the committee lasted from 9:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m.
   The meeting was open to the public.


INTRODUCTIONS, AGENDA AND COMMENTS


   The Chairman asked each person to make a self-introduction.  The
   Chairman also asked if there were requests or changes to the agenda or
   comments from the public.  There were none.


MINUTES OF THE MARCH 23, 2001 MEETING


   It was noted that the next meeting date stated in the minutes was
   listed as October 19 not

   June 19, 2001.  With that notation, the minutes were approved.


UPDATE ON THE WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT AND RELATED ISSUES


   The biggest issue for machine tools in the WA is the validity note that
   must be resolved by

   December 1, 2001.  The Swiss have made it clear that they want
   parameters that do not involve a measurement, and that repeatability is
   not an acceptable parameter.


   In some cases, proposed changes to the control list or proposed changes
   in licensing procedures depend on reaching agreement on “countries of
   concern” that would be treated more rigorously than other countries.
   Unfortunately, there appears to be little hope in getting WA members to
   agree to the countries of concern.


   Other issues brought out by industry members during the WA discussion:


     * The United States leads in liberalizing computers on the CCL but is
       most conservative about machine tools.  It would appear that such
       statistics as industry size and total employment carry more weight
       than threats to national security.


     * The U.S. no longer has unique machine tool capability.  The
       technologies involved are available from many other countries.


     * China expects to meet all of its internal machine tool needs in
       five years.  This gives us a short window of opportunity to engage
       in that market.  Our WA partners are taking advantage of that
       window.


     * Considerable work is going into China from both Airbus and Boeing.


     * On one hand, the Defense Department says that machine tools are
       critical items for national security.  On the other hand, that
       department engages in licensing practice contributing to the loss
       of the industry as a national resource.


SUGGESTED CHANGES IN WORDING IN PARAGRAPH 2B04 IN THE WA LIST


   It was noted that this entry dealing with hot isostatic presses could
   be interpreted to control furnaces since the detail on the items
   controlled does not make it clear that both temperature and pressure
   are required.  There should be an “and” inserted between sub paragraphs
   b.1 and b.2.


   ACTION:        Paul Huber will suggest an appropriate change in
   wording.


POST SHIPMENT VISIT


   The committee continues to work for a defined process of follow-up when
   a post shipment visit is called for as a condition of license
   approval.  Mr. Carter has provided background to Matt Borman, and will
   continue to follow the issue.


LICENSE DENIAL AND UNDERCUTTING


   The Nuclear Suppliers Group has a firm rule to prevent one nation from
   undercutting another when a license is denied.  The problem is that
   some nations notify others when an “intent to deny” is issued.  There
   is then a lengthy appeals process, and the license may or may not be
   denied.  In the meantime, all nations are on hold with respect to
   accepting an order from the customer named in the license request.
   Unfortunately, the USG waits to notify until the appeals process is
   complete.  By that time, a supplier in a cooperating NSG country may
   have picked up the order.


   Charles Carter will work with the Commerce Department to resolve the
   inequity.


SPECIALLY DESIGNED


   There has been no further progress in having the WA provide a
   definition for the term “specially designed.”  There is a mandate for
   the Expert Working Group to address this issue, and some countries have
   proposed definitions.  However, there is little enthusiasm in the WA
   for examining every entry in the list using the term.


CATEGORY 2 MATRIX GUIDE


   Approval by Matt Borman is the final step in having the matrix approved
   for the BXA Web site.


MACHINE TOOL PARAMETERS NOT REQUIRING MEASUREMENT


   The following parameters were discussed and are listed here for the
   record.  None were considered to be of an important defining nature.


     * Resolution of the CNC control
     * Spindle Accuracy
     * Ball Screw Accuracy
     * Hydrostatic ways and spindles



NEXT MEETING


   The date for the next meeting will be determined at a later date.



ADJOURNMENT


   The meeting adjourned at 12:30 p.m.
