http://casc.noaa.gov/acquisitions/acq_index.htm


                    Central Administrative Support Center

                            CASC Directors Office

                      Acquisitions Management Division

                      National Logistics Support Center

                          Commerce Bankcard Center

                        Facilities Logistics Division

                              Finance Division

                          Human Resources Division

                              Systems Division

                      Acquisitions Management Division


                     Pictires courtesy of U.S. DOC/NOAA

   For questions and comments regarding the Webpage, contact the AMD
   Systems Liaison Chuck Hughes.

   Welcome to the Acquisitions Management Division Home Page (AMD).  We
   hope you find our site helpful, and we welcome suggestions to make it
   better.

                                Printing Info


                   Are You A Bank Card Holder? Now You can
                Purchase All Of Your Office Supplies On Line.
                             Click here to Shop!


                               HCO News Letter


               About Acquisitions Division  Customer Resources
                 Acquisition Alert End of Year Cutoff Dates
                     Acquisition Directory  Regulations
             Acquisition Lead Times  Procurement Staff Resources

                    Use of Commerce Bank Card - Guidance

         Electronic & Information Technology Accessibility Standards

   Questionnaire for Requests for Leased Personal Property Guidelines for
   Preparation of Memorandum of Understanding

   Some files on this site require Adobe Acrobat Reader. Click here to get
   Adobe Acrobat:  [acopdflogo.gif]

   (Page last updated 08/27/01)


      For questions and comments regarding the Webpage, contact the AMD
               E-Mail Contact to: Systems Liason Chuck Hughes.

                          Return to CASC HOME PAGE

                               Privacy Notice
                       Site last updated on 08/11/2000

                U.S. Dept. of Commerce Homepage NOAA Homepage

        Web Site Owner: U.S. Department of Commerce/NOAA/OFA/Central
                        Administrative Support Center
