http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0914defeatevil.htm

    blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   September 14, 2001

                        U.S. is Ready to Defeat Evil

   By James V. Hansen

   On Sept. 11, 2001, war came to the shores of the United States for the
   first time in 60 years. However, unlike before, the targets of this
   attack were not only our military but also innocent civilians, who did
   nothing more than go to work that fateful day.

   Today the shock is subsiding, but the relentless sorrow and rage are
   growing. Let us clench our fury in an iron fist that will rid the world
   of this evil in a swift and terrible blow.

   We did not ask for this war, but we will not cower from it. The United
   States accepts our responsibility as the beacon of freedom to the world
   and will rise up to vanquish these forces of evil for the good of all
   humanity. We are at the defining point of our generation, and like the
   generation that rose up to defeat the tyranny of fascism, we will rise
   up to defeat the tyranny of terrorism.

   Americans must understand that a state of war exists between the United
   States of America and all terrorists, wherever they are. America's
   innocence is lost forever. Just as Congress took action against the Bey
   of Tripoli and the Barbary Pirates, we will stand with the president
   and affirm that we are at war with the pirates of today and all those
   who help them.

   I call on the nations of the world to stand with us in this fight. For
   if you are not on the side of freedom, then you are on the side of
   terrorism. There is no middle ground. America's reach is long, our
   memory is longer and our resolve is unshakable. We will remember those
   who stand with us and will surely remember those who do not.

   To the swine who perpetrated these despicable acts, I say to you put
   your affairs in order, for we are coming. Our pursuit of you will be
   relentless, and our righteous wrath will cut you down along with all
   who help you or who turned the other way. There will be non quarter
   from us. Your actions have disqualified you from membership in the
   human race; the only thing you have to look forward to is an eternity
   of suffering in the belly of the beast.

   This barbaric act is horrible in both its enormity and in its
   closeness. We have all been touched forever. Brady Howell, the loving
   husband of one of my office family members and a brave civilian
   employee of the United States Navy, is still among the missing at the
   Pentagon. Mary Alice Wahlstrom, the dear wife of a true public servant
   and former Utah legislator Norman Wahlstrom, and their daughter,
   Carolyn Beug, were also taken from their loved ones in this tragedy.
   All Utahns are New Yorkers and Washingtonians today. All Americans, of
   every faith and origin, stand united. Our prayers are with Liz, Norman
   and all of the families who grieve today.

   As we have been so painfully reminded freedom is never free. It is now
   our duty to remind the world that freedom is also never afraid.

   Mr. President, the people of the United States and all the
   freedom-loving people of the world are with you and await your call.
   The American giant has awoken again.

   We know that there will be sacrifices and sorrow in the days ahead, but
   we have endured them before and will do so again. We have seen evil,
   and we shall defeat it. Our faith in God and our faith in the
   principles that make our country strong will sustain us in the trials
   of tomorrow. God bless the United States of America.

   Representative James V. Hansen, R-Utah, is a senior member of the House
   Armed Services Committee.

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
