http://infoserver.fcc.gov/Speeches/Copps/Statements/2001/stmjc129.html

   Text | Acrobat

             SEPARATE STATEMENT OF COMMISSIONER MICHAEL J. COPPS

            In the Matter of the Commission's Broadcast and Cable
               Equal Employment Opportunity Rules and Policies

   In my six months on this Commission I have often stated my strong
   desire to see the Commission quickly put in place effective EEO rules
   in the wake of the D.C. Circuit decision striking down our EEO rules
   for the second time. I have just as often encouraged broadcasters and
   cable entities to continue their efforts to reach out into the
   community to seek new and diverse talent as they build their workforce,
   and to keep the Commission apprised of their efforts in this regard.

   I have been encouraged by the responses of some broadcasters and cable
   companies that have continued their outreach efforts in the absence of
   EEO rules. I hope they will pursue these endeavors as the Commission
   considers new EEO rules. Their actions have translated into positive
   results in building a workforce with more resemblance to our nations
   diversity.

   I have also been encouraged by my Chairmans commitment to institute a
   proceeding to put new rules in place by the end of the year a
   commitment he fulfills with the adoption of this item today.

   For those reasons, I support the Second Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
   we adopt today. The NPRM makes clear if there was any confusion that
   the Commissions rules prohibiting discrimination will remain in effect.
   In addition, I hope that this NPRM will form the basis of an extensive
   record that will result in strong EEO rules that I will be able to
   support with enthusiasm and with pride.

   While I support the NPRM before us today, I do not feel that it
   reflects the deep and passionate commitment to a diverse workplace that
   America must have if it is to fulfill its potential. Our countrys
   strength is
   its diversity. Diversity is not a problem to be accommodated; it is an
   opportunity to be developed. We will succeed in the Twenty first
   century not in spite of our diversity, but because of our diversity.

   Diversity should be Americas song, and the FCC, standing at the
   forefront of the great transforming forces of our generation, should be
   leading the choir. But this notice does not sound the trumpet and, as
   it was written of old, if the sound of the trumpet be uncertain, then
   who shall respond to the call of the battle? I know my fellow
   Commissioners, and I believe each of us is dedicated to the advancement
   of equal opportunity, here at the Commission and across the industries
   with which we work. But I am afraid that the reversals by the D.C.
   Circuit have imparted too much caution about even approaching the
   borders of circumscription established by the Court.

   I understand full well that the decisions of the D.C. Circuit have
   limited the scope of any EEO rules the Commission may adopt, and I am
   saddened by any retreat in the area of equal employment opportunity
   and, indeed, in civil rights generally. But when civil rights are at
   stake, the stakes are high. Our responsibility is to press the cause,
   to push the edge of the envelope and not to be deflected by a court
   decision that is, in fact, being vigorously contested at this very
   moment.

   We can do better. We can push the envelope farther than this and still
   be within the safe harbor of legal and judicial boundaries. The
   Constitution has brought us a long ways in civil rights and equal
   opportunity in the past half century, and I just dont believe its out
   of gas yet.

   Here is our challenge. Let us take this proceeding as a port of
   embarkation and set sail to develop a record of breadth and depth that
   is in consonance with the breadth and depth of this great land. I ask
   all of our stakeholders to help us. Lend us your experience, your
   insight, your creativity to help us craft rules that are first of all
   effective and transforming, but that will also pass the muster of the
   courts. A tall order? Yes but America was built on filling tall orders.
   So I believe it can be done. This is the time, this is the place, to do
   it.

   As we move to rules in this proceeding, let us search out uncharted
   paths to achieve equal employment opportunity. Let us reach out to all
   of our stakeholders -- I trust the court will let us do that
   and put Americas genius to work in the cause of equal opportunity. And
   lets do so with a sense of urgency. We have been without rules here for
   far too long. We need to have this Commission on record with forthright
   equal employment opportunity rules -- and the sooner the better.

   In furtherance of that cause, I hope that the Commission will give this
   issue the extra attention it deserves by convening an en banc hearing
   to address our broadcast and cable EEO rules. Such a hearing would
   create a forum for discussion among broadcasters, cable system
   operators, advocates, legal scholars and, most importantly of all,
   concerned citizens from every corner of the country. And it would make
   an eloquent statement about the importance the Commission attaches to
   the job at hand. This discussion, in addition to the comments we
   receive in response to this NPRM, would form a record on which we can
   base strong, effective and legally sustainable equal employment
   opportunity rules.

   For my part, I look forward in the next few months to intensive
   engagement on a subject that goes to the core of our national being and
   upon which hinges our ability to open the doors of opportunity for our
   fellow citizens. This is something, my friends, that we need to do and
   do right.
