http://dtp.nci.nih.gov/docs/dart/dart.html

   [Image - DTP Logo] NIH Inter-Institute Program for the Development of
   AIDS-Related Therapeutics

   Home
   What's New
   Discovery
   Development
   Pathways
   Grants
   Site Search
   Data Search
   [Image - NCI]


                                                          Printer Friendly

   Updated: 10/01/2001

Table of Contents

    I. Program Focus
   II. What projects can the program support?
   III. Who is eligible to request program resources?
   IV. How is Intellectual Property handled through the program?
    V. Submission of Letters of Intent and Applications?
   VI. Review Considerations
   VII. Additional Comments
   VIII. Contact Information
   IX. IIP Projects in Progress

Program Focus

   The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and
   the National Cancer Institute (NCI) jointly administer a new program
   targeted at facilitating the preclinical development of:
    1. therapies for the treatment of HIV disease, AIDS-associated
       malignancies, opportunistic infections associated with AIDS
       including tuberculosis, and
    2. microbicides directed against HIV.

   The program assists investigators from academic institutions,
   non-profit research institutions, and biotechnology and small
   pharmaceutical companies by providing facilitated access to National
   Institutes of Health (NIH) contract resources for therapeutics
   development. Investigators will be given the opportunity to submit
   requests to the program for NIH to conduct specific tasks the
   investigators find rate-limiting in their efforts to translate basic
   research findings to applied or clinical practice. The program will
   review these requests in a competitive manner and assistance will be
   provided to novel, promising, and scientifically meritorious projects.

   This program was developed to assist researchers who may not have the
   technical expertise or institutional resources needed to fully advance
   their therapeutic or microbicide-based prevention strategy to the point
   where an Investigational New Drug (IND) application can be submitted to
   the FDA. In many cases, the program may only need to support one or two
   key steps in the preclinical drug development pathway; in other cases
   the program may need to assist with several tasks. Program assistance
   ordinarily will be accomplished via the use of NIAID's or NCI's drug
   development contracts and will be facilitated by direct consultation of
   the applicant with NIH staff.

What projects can the program support?

   The output of program activities can be both products and information
   and will be made available to the investigator applying for assistance.
   Examples of projects that can be supported by the program are listed
   below. Certain tasks can be conducted in compliance with GLP and cGMP
   regulations, when warranted. Support for gene therapy and vaccine
   products is NOT currently available via this program.
     * Modification of biochemical or cell-based assays to permit
       screening of compound libraries in a high-throughput (HTS) manner.
       The applicant must provide the detailed methodology of a functional
       low-throughput assay for development into a HTS assay. Access to
       the HTS assays developed under this program will be made available
       to the research community whenever possible.
     * Screening of specific compound libraries in an HTS assay developed
       under the program. The compound libraries generally will be
       provided by the applicant, but in some instances the program can
       make available a small diverse set of synthetic compounds or
       natural product extracts tailored to the applicant's needs.
     * Evaluation of lead compounds identified by HTS efforts in
       appropriate biochemical or in vitro secondary tests.
     * Evaluation of promising therapeutics in animal efficacy models
       (e.g., models for HIV, SIV, OIs, and TB).
     * Scale-up synthesis of small molecule therapeutics of defined
       structure and proven activity/efficacy. Analog synthesis is NOT
       available under this program.
     * Scale-up cloning, expression, and purification of biological
       therapeutics with defined structure and proven activity/efficacy
       (e.g., peptides, proteins, polynucleotides).
     * Expression and purification of recombinant proteins for use as
       assay reagents.
     * Bioassay-directed natural product isolation and characterization.
     * Scale-up purification from natural product sources of therapeutics
       of defined structure and proven activity/efficacy.
     * Development of analytical methods to characterize or quantitate
       bulk drug substances and formulations.
     * Development and evaluation of new dosage formulations.
     * Manufacture of dosage formulations in compliance with cGMP
       regulations for use in clinical studies.
     * Evaluation of the long term shelf-life of bulk drug substances and
       dosage formulations.
     * Determination of the pharmacokinetic characteristics of
       therapeutics in various animal species (e.g., mouse, rat, dog,
       non-human primate).
     * Performance of both dose range finding and IND-directed toxicology
       studies in the appropriate animal species (e.g., mouse, rat, dog,
       non-human primate).

   In addition to the tasks listed above, information and guidance in the
   planning of clinical trials may be requested through the program, but
   do not require the submission of an application. The Program
   Coordinator (listed below) will be able to direct investigators to NIH
   staff who are knowledgeable in regulatory affairs and clinical trial
   development and who can provide guidance in this area of planning.

Who is eligible to request program resources?

   The following are acceptable applicants for program resources:
     * Academic institutions
     * Non-profit research institutions
     * Biotechnology and small pharmaceutical companies
     * U.S. and non-U.S. entities

How is intellectual property handled through the program?

   Investigators should begin the process of acquiring intellectual
   property protection for their products before submitting applications
   to the program. It is anticipated that most program projects will be
   completed without the generation of new intellectual property, but it
   is conceivable that a new invention involving an investigator's product
   will be made as a consequence of program assistance. The investigator
   will be offered an option to negotiate a license to that invention if
   NIH or one of its contractors elects to file a patent application for
   that invention. Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs) or Cooperative
   Research and Development Agreements (CRADAs) will be used to define the
   specific terms under which intellectual property will be handled under
   the program.

Submission of Letters of Intent and Applications

   Applications to the program are requests for NIH-funded contractors to
   conduct specific development tasks for the applicant. Applicants do not
   receive direct funding via this program.

   Applicants must submit a Letter of Intent (a template for the Letter of
   Intent and additional instructions is available.) no later than 30 days
   prior to the application submission deadlines specified later in this
   section. Letters of Intent are used by program staff to ascertain
   whether the proposed projects are indeed within the scientific scope
   and capabilities of the program and to help staff begin the process of
   selecting potential reviewers. Applications must be 15 pages or less in
   length (excluding appendices) and be formatted to include each of the
   following elements:

   Required Application Elements Comments
   Abstract 300 words or less.
   Background describe the product/strategy proposed for development and
   its intended medical use(s).
   Novelty discuss why the product/strategy represents a particularly
   innovative or promising approach to treating 1) HIV disease, 2)
   AIDS-associated malignancies, 3) AIDS-associated opportunistic
   infections, 4) AIDS-related tuberculosis, or 5) as a microbicide
   approach for preventing HIV transmission.
   Hypothesis clarify what hypothesis(ses) will be tested if the
   product/strategy is sufficiently developed and evaluated in a clinical
   trial.
   Requested Tasks list the specific tasks (and quantities where
   appropriate) being requested from NIH in this application cycle; focus
   on a small number of well defined goals.
   a letter of collaboration from a clinical investigator in which the
   source of clinical trial funding is identified MUST accompany any
   request for manufacture of a product for clinical evaluation.
   Research & Development Plan outline the steps you envision as necessary
   for the advancement of the proposed product/strategy to clinical
   practice
   summarize how you and your collaborators have/will be contributing to
   the implementation of this development plan beyond NIH's efforts
   describe potential sources of financial support for the project,
   including a summary of your interactions with companies related to
   licensure or future development of the product
   Feasibility and Production Issues resynthesis of small molecules:
   provide a proven synthesis route to the desired product; describe
   yields of the largest quantity previously made, how the product is
   defined/characterized, and the required level of purity
   natural product isolation: provide a proven purification scheme to the
   desired product; describe yields of the largest quantity previously
   purified, how the product is defined/characterized, and the required
   level of purity
   production of biologics: indicate from which organism(s) the desired
   product previously has been isolated and in what production quantities
   (e.g., g/ml); provide (or reference) the sequence of required vectors;
   describe an assay that can be used to define the product's activity and
   the specifications for the product's performance
   GLP safety evaluations: indicate whether there are there sufficient
   quantities (e.g., 500 grams) of GMP-manufactured drug available to
   conduct these studies
   Intellectual Property identify all patents issued or pending with
   respect to the product/strategy and any patent or licensing issues
   which might restrict the clinical use of the product/strategy
   Appendix preprints, reprints, or portions of relevant patents.
   relevant letters of collaboration (a letter of collaboration from a
   clinical investigator in which the source of clinical trial funding is
   identified MUST accompany any request for manufacture of a product for
   clinical evaluation).
   analytical characterization (e.g., proof of identify, purity) of any
   product for which biological data is provided.
   biographical sketch (1-2 pages) of the applicant.
   brief description of laboratory/manufacturing facilities available to
   the applicant to develop this product/strategy.
     * Cost estimates are NOT required. Applications to the program are
       requests for NIH to use its portfolio of currently-funded
       contractors to conduct the proposed work, thus NIH staff will be
       responsible for generating cost information and providing it during
       the review process. Applicants nevertheless may incorporate cost
       information from other proposed studies of the product/strategy in
       the discussion of feasibility and production issues if they so
       choose.
     * Applications must NOT include colored graphics, glossy photographs,
       and other materials that cannot be accurately reproduced as black
       and white photocopies.
     * Resubmissions must address reviewer concerns regarding the previous
       proposal.

   Proposals are solicited and reviewed twice a year. Information
   regarding the next two application cycles is provided below:
              Application Timelines                      Dates
   Announcement in journals and NIH guides      March / April September /
                                                              October
   Submission of Letters of Interest            May 1         November 1
   Submission deadline for application          June 1        December 1
   Review of applications                       August        March
   Notification of review outcome to applicants September     April

   No more than two requests for support from the same principal
   investigator may be received on any one receipt date. An individual
   product has three opportunities to be approved by the program. After
   three unsuccessful attempts, subsequent applications focusing on the
   same product will be returned without review.

   Applications should be submitted as a set of 5 master copies to:

     Inter-Institute Program Coordinator
     6130 Executive Blvd., Room 8022
     Rockville, MD 20852

   Telephone: 301-496-8720
         Fax: 301-402-0831
      E-mail: iip@dtpax2.ncifcrf.gov

  Review Considerations

   Applications will receive two levels of review. A specially constituted
   ad hoc Program Review Panel of experts from academia and industry will
   initially evaluate the applications in a confidential manner for
   scientific and technical merit. The Panel will review and prioritize
   each application on the basis of the following evaluation criteria:
     * Strength of the hypothesis: the extent to which the proposal is
       associated with a compelling hypothesis that strongly merits
       exploration.
     * Novelty: the extent to which the proposal will enable preclinical
       development of new therapeutic and microbicide-based prevention
       strategies that have not been adequately explored.
     * Research & Development plan and feasibility/production issues: the
       clarity and appropriateness of the R & D plan and the likelihood
       that the proposed tasks can be accomplished in a straight forward
       fashion. The IIP Review Committee reserves the right to scale back
       an applicant's request based on development or feasibility concerns
       and recommend approval of only a portion of the requested tasks.
       Reviewers will score the proposal based on the revised set of
       tasks.
     * Cost to Benefit considerations: the appropriateness of the
       anticipated costs in light of potential benefits.

   Applications then will receive a secondary level of review by the
   program's internal oversight committee. Proposed program projects will
   be compared with tasks currently assigned to NIH contractors and a
   final prioritization of projects will be made taking into consideration
   the following additional factors:
     * Importance of projects in addressing NIAID and NCI research agendas
       (e.g., TB therapeutics and topical microbicides may have higher
       priority than HIV therapeutics targeting reverse transcriptase or
       protease).
     * Portfolio diversity (e.g., multiple projects directed against the
       same molecular target may be less favored than projects addressing
       diverse modes of action).
     * Contract capacity (e.g., an individual contract may be better able
       to initiate a less expensive, but lower priority project due to
       funding limitations).

   The number of projects to be supported in any review cycle thus will be
   a function of:
    1. the level of scientific merit assigned to the applications
    2. NIH programmatic issues
    3. the projected costs of each proposed project

   Shortly after the secondary level of review each applicant will receive
   a copy of review comments and notification of the level of assistance
   the program will be offering in response to the request.

   Approved projects intended to utilize NCI's biopharmaceutical
   production resources require approval from the Biological Resources
   Branch Oversight Committee (BRB-OC) a committee charged with
   prioritizing the use of these resources. The BRB-OC is concerned with
   technical and feasibility issues and does not re-review the scientific
   basis of the proposal.

  Additional Comments

     * Written and telephone inquiries concerning any aspect of the
       program are strongly encouraged and should be directed to the
       Inter-Institute Program Coordinator listed above.
     * The program is not an unconditional commitment by NIH to develop a
       particular compound or product for the clinic and does not commit
       the NIH to support the full-scale development of a particular
       product. Approved projects will be reviewed by program staff on a
       periodic basis to determine whether they should be continued or
       terminated; these decisions will be based on the contractors'
       progress, likely progress, or difficulties in reaching the desired
       project goals.
     * The program is not intended to be a pipeline for NIH-held INDs.
       Products receiving development assistance from the program are
       intended to be studied clinically under an applicant-held IND. Only
       in exceptional cases will NIH consider assuming responsibility for
       clinical trials sponsorship.
     * Applicants (or their collaborators) are NOT awarded contracts to do
       the proposed work and do NOT receive grant funding via this
       program.
     * Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit proposals focused on a
       few defined tasks that will have immediate impact on their own drug
       development efforts. Applicants are free to submit additional
       proposals in later application cycles to continue work on their
       projects without being unduly penalized by the three unsuccessful
       submission limit mentioned above. Proposals based upon multi-year,
       diffuse drug development plans that are little more than a
       re-listing of available program resources and that indicate no
       commitment by the applicant to assist in the product's development
       are poor candidates for favorable review.

  Contact Information

     Inter-Institute Program Coordinator
     6130 Executive Blvd., Room 8022
     Rockville, MD 20852

   Telephone: 301-496-8720
         Fax: 301-402-0831
      E-mail: iip@dtpax2.ncifcrf.gov

  IIP Projects in Progress

     * Successful IIP Applicants, Initial Program Cycle
     * Successful IIP Applicants, Second Program Cycle
