http://www.chicagoinfo.gov/2001pages/education.htm

   ChicagoInfo.gov Website
   Divider Graphic
   About Us

                                   Sitemap

                               Privacy Policy

                                 Contact Us
   The Chicagoland Governmental Information Portal


   Categories
   Categories Business
   Categories Benefits
   Categories Not-for-Profits
   Categories Education
   Categories Services
   Categories Recreation
   Categories Legislative
   Direct Links

                         State of Illinios Home Page

                          City of Chicago Home Page

                       First Gov for Federal Agencies

                           Was this site helpful?
                           E-mail us to a friend!

   Quick Search

                    ______________________________ Search

                     LINKS  FOR  EDUCATION  INFORMATION
   This section includes links to sites where you can match your
   information needs to a variety of governmental programs providing
   assistance and information on education.

   City of Chicago

   The Chicago Public Schools'  web site has been selected as one of the
   best local sites in Chicago.  It not only contains a wealth of
   information on the Chicago school system, but provides  extensive links
   to sites of interest in the education field.

   State of Illinois

   State of Illinois - Education Agencies website provides descriptions
   and links for the various State agencies that are responsible for
   regulating, improving, overseeing and coordinating all educational
   facilities in Illinois.  They are responsible for elementary, secondary
   and higher education, and work to provide a quality education for every
   child in the State of Illinois.

   Illinois Student Assistance Commission is a comprehensive student
   financial aid agency that administers 17 scholarship, grant and loan
   programs, operates a full-service secondary market and annually offers
   a vast array of training and outreach services to students, parents,
   educational institutions and lenders.

   Federal Government

   Access America for Students is a student gateway to information and
   services from the United States government. It brings together all
   kinds of information and services that students and their families have
   requested. You can come to one place to find what you want, instead of
   searching the entire web. The site is a cooperative effort of many
   federal agencies working together, under the leadership of the U.S.
   Department of Education, as part of the Access America initiative.
   The White House, Commonly Requested Federal Services - Education
   maintains a helpful section on commonly requested Federal services in
   Education.  For example, it provides links for information on grants
   and loans from the U.S. Department of Education, fellowships at the
   Woodrow Wilson Center, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, the U.S. Merchant
   Marine Academy, grants and funding from the National Science
   Foundation, and more.

   Corporation for National Service, Learn and Serve America is a
   public-private partnership that oversees a variety of national service
   initiatives.   Of interest to teachers is the Learn and Serve America
   program which provides models and assistance to help teachers integrate
   community service activities and learning from kindergarten through
   college.  Visit the CNS website for service opportunities.

   The National Resources and Services Administration, Division of Student
   Assistance directs national health programs which improves the health
   of the Nation by assuring quality health care to underserved,
   vulnerable and special-need populations.   The Division of Student
   Assistance offers loans, scholarships and faculty loan repayment
   programs for students in various health professions.

   Federal Resources for Educational Excellence (FREE) site makes hundreds
   of Internet-based education resources supported by agencies across the
   U.S. Federal government easier to find. Search the resources or see
   them listed by subject, or for an overview of what's here, visit the
   site map. The FREE working group will be adding new resources and
   seeking to improve those here.

   U.S. Army - Montgomery GI Bill and Army College Fund provides a variety
   of financial aid programs to choose from. The most popular are the
   Montgomery GI Bill and Army College Fund. Combined, they give you up to
   $50,000 for college at the end of your active duty tour, if you
   qualify. Or you can be a full-time student and serve just part-time in
   the Army Reserve. The Reserve package pays you up to $24,500 while you
   are in college, and you'll be committed to just one weekend a month
   plus two weeks a year for annual training.


                 Divider Graphic
   About | Sitemap | Privacy | Contact | Home

   Page last updated: 01/10/02
