http://www.phila.gov/pdfs/budget_address_2002.pdf

   Budget Address Mayor John F. Street January 29, 2002 Council President
   Verna, members of City Council, members of my Cabinet and
   Administration, special friends and guests: Good morning. Last January,
   I stood before you and proudly announced  "We are a government that
   gets things done." 2001 was a year of difficult challenges.
   Nonetheless, it was a year of accomplishment. Sustained by our shared
   ideals and nourished by pride in our great City, we continue to make
   progress on behalf of the people, the businesses which employ our
   workers, and the great region of which we are a vital part. Today, I
   can modify my statement from a year ago: we are a government that gets
   things done despite a series of difficult challenges  * despite a
   national economic downturn and the abrupt end to the longest period of
   economic expansion in our history; * despite a changing and very
   challenging political environment; * despite the escalating security
   costs and emotional trauma caused by the tragic events of September 11.
   Vince Lombardi, the ledgendary former coach of the Green Bay Packers,
   used to tell his players, "When the going gets tough, the tough get
   going." During the year 2001, we proved our toughness. We refused to
   let the rough economic climate impede our progress. We managed the
   affairs of the City with unwavering commitment to our vision of a
   better Philadelphia. We moved closer to this vision  * forging a
   historic agreement with the Commonwealth and securing a better and
   brighter day for our public school students and their families, *
   creating jobs by attracting entrepreneurs seeking a progressive
   pro-business environment, * protecting and strengthening the
   hospitality industry, * making our neighborhoods cleaner, safer, and
   more beautiful, and * remaining faithful to our pledge to make every
   year in Philadelphia the "Year of the Child." Tough times inevitably
   create new imperatives. If we are to succeed, we must maintain our
   focus, sustain our discipline, and remain undeterred in our vision. 2
   We must never forget that the ideals uniting us are far more important
   than the details dividing us. At the end of the day, we are all on the
   same side  the side of the City we love and the people we are
   privileged to serve. Now more than ever, we need a partnership for
   progress. If we are to continue to invest in our neighborhoods,
   strengthen our economy, and improve our schools, real partnership is
   essential. The aftermath of the events of September 11 provide valuable
   guidance in forging this partnership for progress. In the difficult
   days and months following this tragedy, our nation demonstrated just
   how much we can do when we cast aside petty politics, work together,
   and devote ourselves to the common good. The horror and anger ignited
   by the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon
   have not only redefined the American experience; they also ignited acts
   of bravery, valor and compassion that distinguish us as a society. The
   Philadelphia response to September 11 is exemplified by the work of the
   United Way of Southeastern Pennsylvania, the Red Cross, and the
   firefighters and other rescue workers who were among the first non-New
   York responders on the scene. When I met them upon their return from
   Ground Zero, they were exhausted, emotionally spent, and very, very
   proud. Today we have with us Lieutenant Fred Endrikat, who led the
   recovery effort for the first several days at Ground Zero. Please help
   me welcome him and say thanks to 3 the United Way, the Red Cross, and
   all the men and women who volunteered in our time of national need. The
   coming year presents an array of complex challenges. The $3.1 billion
   general fund operating budget I present today sustains our
   long-standing commitment to incremental tax reductions, which have
   saved taxpayers more than $875 million in wage and business taxes since
   1996. As you will hear, in FY04 we propose to restructure our tax
   reduction program to provide a stronger stimulus to our business
   community, attract more jobs, and expand our tax base. For the moment,
   however, let me acknowledge our Council of Economic Advisors:
   Philadelphia Federal Reserve Chairman Athony Santomero, Robert Inman,
   William Stull, David L. Cohen, and Steven Sanders. They have
   volunteered considerable time to the study of our tax structure and our
   economy. Their advice helped shape key provisions of this budget.
   Members of the Council, I thank you. Neighborhood Transformation
   remains at the heart of my "Vision for a Better Philadelphia." Although
   we have not as yet unleashed the full potential of NTI, we have
   generated inspiring activity in neighborhoods throughout the city. We
   have cleaned 17,557 vacant lots, hauled 11,099 tons of debris, and
   removed over 100,000 abandoned cars from the streets of 4 Philadelphia.
   In addition, we have visited with the owners and managers of more than
   260 neighborhood-based businesses. We are making progress and making a
   difference. I see it first hand when I visit neighborhoods, walk the
   streets, and talk with residents and local business owners. They
   appreciate what we are doing. We want what they want: safe and clean
   neighborhoods, open spaces where beautiful gardens grow and healthy
   children play, neighborhoods alive with pride and hope. Nevertheless,
   we must do more. Blighted neighborhoods are an open wound on our City,
   breeding violence, drugs, disease, and despair. Let us act together to
   heal those wounds, so our neighborhoods thrive and people enjoy the
   quality of life they deserve. Let us remember: sustained economic
   growth requires a City which appeals to both employers and employees -
   a place where people want to raise their children and spend their
   leisure time. Neighborhood Transformation is an economic stimulus. It
   is essential, not just for current residents but also for those
   considering a move to our City, whether for residential or business
   purposes. Accordingly, I respectfully request that you amend the
   current Neighborhood Transformation legislation in ways that respect
   the aspirations of the people of Philadelphia, advance the cause of
   attracting entrepreneurs, and incorporate the priorities of eliminating
   blight and protecting the strong neighborhoods of this City from the
   insidious incursions of vacancy and abandonment. 5 While we have worked
   diligently to find common ground on NTI, make PGW more responsive to
   the people who depend on it, and stabilize the Philadelphia School
   District, we have not averted our attention from the creation of jobs,
   the continuing expansion of downtown, and the protection of our status
   as a premier destination city. The new FedEx Distribution Center in
   Grays Ferry, the Kvaerner shipyard in South Philadelphia, the T.J. Maxx
   warehouse in the Northeast, the Eagles football stadium taking shape as
   you drive down I-95, the commitment by Bill Rouse to build the first
   skyscraper downtown in 20 years, and the announcement of the plans for
   the Comcast Pier at Penn's Landing, including the Please Touch Museum
   and the tram connecting Camden and Philadelphia: All of this is
   evidence of our success in creating a business- and developer-friendly
   environment which produces jobs for our City and region. We also are
   heartened by the pending acquisition of AT&T's cable division by
   Comcast Corporation and the decision by Citizens Bank to make our City
   a center for its operations. Thank you to the Greater Philadelphia
   Chamber of Commerce, the Delaware River Port Authority, and Greater
   Philadelphia First who worked with our Commerce Department and PIDC to
   give life to many of these initiatives. With your support, we are
   confident we can build on this success in the next fiscal year.
   Innovation Philadelphia is one key to this success, and the funds you
   authorized last year made it possible to attract a respected individual
   like Richard Bendis to our City. 6 Innovation Philadelphia is a forward
   looking public/private partnership designed to establish Philadelphia
   as a world class leader on the cutting edge of the knowledge-based
   economy. This initiative has one simple mission: to place us ahead of
   the curve - to attract 22nd century enterprises. Our most valuable
   partner in this venture is our City's higher education community, which
   is attracting the very best and brightest minds to study, work, and
   live in our City. Innovation Philadelphia will focus on job creation
   and tax-base expansion. The seeds we plant today will invigorate
   economic growth tomorrow. Let me thank Dr. Judith Rodin, president of
   the University of Pennsylvania, who chairs the Innovation Philadelphia
   board. As a result of her leadership, Innovation Philadelphia, PIDC,
   PCDC and the Commerce Department have bonded into a stronger economic
   development catalyst. The progress we are now experiencing are signs of
   our City's capacity to weather the recessionary storm our nation is now
   enduring. Just think about it: there was a time  not that long ago
   when national economic downturns hit our City more severely than the
   nation as a whole. This time is different. We will survive and thrive.
   Our success will depend on a continued willingness to make tough
   decisions  like the 1.5 percent reduction in personnel expenditures
   mandated for every government department. It will require the
   continuation of the discipline 7 with which our Commissioners and
   Directors have managed the affairs of the City. It will require the
   same fiscal prudence we brought to labor negotiations. Because of our
   willingness to face hard questions and make tough choices, we are now
   positioned to defend ourselves against economic turmoil. Other cities
   are curtailing public services, freezing tax reductions, and struggling
   to cope with spiraling unemployment. We are not immune to this damage,
   but we are well protected: *Our fiscal discipline has produced a fund
   balance of $230 million. *Our rate of job loss from November 2000
   through November 2001 was less than a third of the rate nationwide.
   *Our relatively low cost of delivering services, a product of
   streamlining our delivery systems and instituting a variety of
   cost-cutting measures, has made it possible to fund all services at or
   above current levels. In the face of cataclysmic jolts to the nation's
   economy, our City is displaying remarkable resiliency. Last week it was
   reported that the hospitality community in Philadelphia has recovered
   from the downturn in convention and tourism business faster than any
   other city in America. 8 Tremendous credit should be given to leaders
   in the hospitality community who along with Comcast, DRPA and other
   important corporate citizens fashioned the weekend hotel package and
   that great commercial featuring the slogan "Philly is more fun when you
   SLEEP OVER." I deeply appreciate the commitment of our hotel and
   parking operators, restaurants, cultural venues, and everyone who is
   pitching in to make the campaign which runs through March 31 a great
   success. I see Meryl Levitz, Bruce Crawley and Tom Muldoon: let's give
   them and the other leaders of our hospitality community a round of
   applause. Visitors are returning, and traffic at our airport now stands
   at more than 90 percent of its pre- September volume. The openings of
   the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts and the International
   Visitors Center; the powerful reading of the Declaration of
   Independence by a group of international celebrities; United Nations
   Secretary General Kofi Annan's receipt of the Liberty Medal; President
   Bush's visit to honor our faith-based programs and help us celebrate
   America's 225th birthday: all of this testifies to our status as a
   world-class City with world-class amenities. However, our momentum will
   stall if we do not find new ways to support the hospitality industry,
   which provides our region with 43,000 jobs and a payroll in excess of
   $1 billion. These 43,000 job holders live in every neighborhood of this
   City. They include 3,000 proud members of Local 274, who work in
   hotels, restaurants, sporting venues and catering facilities. The
   hospitality industry is a leading employer of our nation's most
   vulnerable workers, including welfare to work participants, single
   mothers and immigrant workers. We will not let them down! 9 In recent
   weeks we have seen hotel owners converge on Washington D.C. requesting
   tax incentives for travelers or other incentives to get "heads in
   beds." Like the airline industry, hotels face a bleak future unless
   help arrives. Our hotel industry, hit especially hard after 9/11, is an
   employment-producing engine, a catalyst for economic growth. Now is the
   time to recognize its importance to us and our economy. Now is the time
   to reach out to our friends in Harrisburg and the region and agree to
   expand the Pennsylvania Convention Center. Our center is among the
   finest in the country, but cities like Boston and Washington are
   expanding their facilities. In this business, you grow or die! I invite
   you to join this effort to improve and expand our center. It cannot be
   done without your support, and although there is no specific request in
   the budget presented today, this issue will require further discussion
   soon. Let me state for the record: our labor community will be a
   valuable ally in expanding our Convention Center. We have made real
   progress pursuant to the Project Labor Agreement we signed last year,
   and Bob Butera, the CEO at the Center, Billy Corazo, and many others
   deserve recognition for our progress. We all agree Philadelphia must
   remain competitive in the hospitality community, and the leaders of
   every union in our building have assured me they will work to resolve
   any outstanding issues, 10 including the issue of costs. We cannot
   expand our Convention Center and the related businesses it attracts
   unless we are customer-friendly and cost-effective. We are periodically
   reminded, sometimes by members of this body, of the middle class exodus
   from our City during the 1990s. We are fighting back! My confidence is
   buoyed by the fact that in 2001, we experienced the hottest residential
   housing market in 80 years  proof that our tax abatement programs are
   creating an enticing environment for developers and homeowners. On the
   waterfront, in center city, around our colleges and universities and in
   many neighborhoods, we have new and compelling evidence: if we build
   it, they will come. Every new amenity available in our city contributes
   to the rebuilding of the middle-class, which is essential to future
   prosperity. 2001 had its challenging moments, and I stand before you
   today, bruised a few times, but proud that it was another year of
   accomplishment for Philadelphia. The highlights I have described are
   snapshots of our progress. Together those snapshots are a window into
   the soul of a government determined to improve the quality of life in
   Philadelphia, to create a city that is attractive, comfortable, and
   safe  a City where people want to live, work, visit, raise their
   children and pursue their dreams. The challenge of implementing this
   vision of a better Philadelphia will demand a new culture of
   collaboration  an agenda, rooted in shared ideals, that will allow
   leaders in the General Assembly, City Council, and the Mayor to work
   together in the kind of partnership Governor 11 Schweiker and I
   fashioned around public education in Philadelphia. We cannot allow
   politics or personality to get in the way. I stand ready and willing to
   work with Democrats and Republicans to fashion a "Partnership for
   Progress" that stretches not only throughout our City but throughout
   the Commonwealth. Nothing illustrates the need for partnership  and the
   value of partnership  better than the historic agreement we reached
   with the Commonwealth regarding the governance of public education. The
   School Reform Commission the Governor and I appointed has now been
   seated. I want to thank the Commisison members for agreeing to serve
   and welcome them here this morning: Chairman Jim Nevels, Jim Gallagher,
   Dan Whelan, Sandra Dungee Glenn and Mike Masch. This Commission will
   make decisions that will affect the lives of hundreds of thousands of
   children and their families, and influence the course of this City for
   years to come. I believe the Governor and I have assembled a quality
   team, worthy of public trust and confidence. I also believe public
   education in Philadelphia can be better, must be better, and will be
   better if it receives the broad public support it deserves. I have
   spent considerable time with SRC Chairman Jim Nevels, and I believe we
   share common goals, even though we may not always agree on the details.
   My appointees to the SRC have 12 assured me they will work with their
   new colleagues as a constructive force for reform that gives our
   students a better chance to compete. We all agree the status quo is
   unacceptable. We need small class size, better facilities, better
   implemented programs, smart technology, and better supported teachers
   with a far more friendly learning environment. Teachers and students
   alike must be safe and properly supported! I know there are powerful
   feelings among some legislators and education advocates favoring
   exclusive local control of public education. Exclusive local control is
   also my preference. However, I assure you, this City will continue to
   have its say about the future of public education. Through my personal
   efforts and those of my appointees to the SRC, through the work of our
   local Secretary of Education, through the outreach of a reconstituted
   and expanded Board of Education, through the vigilance of our students,
   parents and community members, through the deeds of our school district
   employees, and, of course, through the commitment of this City Council,
   our voice will remain strong and effective. But after two nonstop years
   of making dramatic changes at the School District, changes that
   included new leadership, a longer school day, a more uniform
   curriculum, significant labor contract reforms, establishment of 39
   charter schools, budget savings of about $50 million, and an
   administrative reorganization that put teachers back in the classroom,
   it nevertheless became clear that the City and School District could no
   longer go it alone. 13 Lurching from one crisis to the next made for an
   unstable environment, jeopardizing some of our most promising reforms:
   smaller class sizes, a more demanding curriculum, a safe and orderly
   school environment, and the use of instructional technology to
   facilitate learning. If we were going to sustain these reforms and
   offer children the quality education that is their sacred right, we
   needed a new partnership with the Commonwealth  a partnership on behalf
   of continued reform and additional State funding. The agreement I
   reached with Governor Schweiker did not come easily. Our negotiations
   were intense, candid, and honest. I thank Governor Schweiker for his
   leadership, commitment and courage in bringing our talks to a positive
   conclusion. I also thank him for his unprecedented pledge to request
   $75 million of new money to support our public schools in his FY03
   budget. The agreement does not answer every question and address every
   concern: *It does not provide a clear direction for the future of
   charter schools, which offer valuable public school options but have
   contributed significantly to the School District's financial deficit.
   *It does not provide the long-term financial stability we need, which
   will come only through statewide reform of public school funding. *It
   does not guarantee we will like every decision the SRC makes. 14 *It
   does not define the role of Edison Schools, a matter on which the
   Governor and I honestly disagree. I have grave reservations about
   taking substantial public dollars that could go toward upgrading
   teaching materials or reducing class size and divert them to a private,
   for-profit company with little experience. This is, very simply, not a
   wise use of public education dollars. Nonetheless, our agreement with
   the Commonwealth brings necessary change: *It does give the City a
   significant role and a meaningful say in the policies of the School
   District. *It does protect the City treasury by capping the City's
   financial commitment, and most importantly *It does give children,
   parents and school employees the certainty they need and deserve: our
   schools will open on time and will remain open without interruption
   throughout the entire school year. Let me share the financial terms of
   the agreement. During the current fiscal year, as soon as we secure
   legislative clarification on the recapture provisions of Act 46, I will
   submit a transfer ordinance and ask you to approve a one-time grant 15
   of $45 million to the School District. This grant would fulfill an
   earlier commitment to Governor Ridge and our teachers. For FY03, I am
   requesting $45 million in new, recurring revenues to fulfill our
   commitment to children and their families. Of this amount, $25 million
   would be in the form of millage to be applied to the estimated debt
   service on a $300 million deficit funding bond. The remaining $20
   million would be provided in regular, recurring support to the School
   District. I will make this request in tandem with the General
   Assembly's adoption of a State budget containing $75 million more for
   Philadelphia public schools. Make no mistake: the City will feel the
   squeeze of this additional funding to the School District, but it is
   the right thing to do. Public education is already the City's top
   spending priority, even though our support is continuously and unfairly
   undervalued by our critics. Nevertheless, we always knew that we would
   have to do more in exchange for more State support. It will take
   tremendous effort by the City and the Commonwealth working in concert
   to build a public school system worthy of our children. The
   transformation will take courage, creativity, patience, trust ... and
   money. There can be no doubt: $45 million is not too much to invest in
   over 200,000 public school children who will always rely on this system
   as their gateway to the future. 16 Let me give special emphasis to the
   fact that our historic partnership with the Commonwealth does not
   represent a permanent solution to the District's long-term financial
   difficulties. At best, we are building a bridge to the future, which
   will crumble under the weight of additional funding requirements unless
   we act soon. The time has come for a school funding mechanism
   reflecting the fact that education is an investment in our future, an
   investment in our most precious resource  our children. The
   anthropologist Margaret Mead spoke wisely on this issue many years ago:
   "The solution to adult problems tomorrow depends upon the way our
   children grow up today. There is no greater insight into the future
   than recognizing when we save our children, we save ourselves." The
   current education funding formula jeopardizes our children  and
   ourselves. All of us have a responsibility to mobilize public support
   on behalf of a change in the way education is financed within our
   Commonwealth. We must abandon the real estate tax as the primary way of
   funding public education. Success will demand a statewide coalition:
   adequate funding for public education is not just a Philadelphia
   problem  it is a Pennsylvania problem, with cities, suburbs, and rural
   communities all feeling the burden. I am encouraged by the many new
   voices  including the State Board of Education, Greater Philadelphia
   First, and members of the School Reform Commission  which have recently
   joined the chorus on behalf of revamping the State's school funding
   system. We 17 should all call on this year's gubernatorial candidates
   to speak clearly to the question of statewide tax reform. Our agreement
   with the Commonwealth and our advocacy for a new education funding
   mechanism both take aim at the same goal; to bring our children the
   benefits of literacy and liberty. No matter the obstacles, we will meet
   our obligations to the children of our City. We will remember, now and
   always, the wisdom contained in a maxim that has long held a special
   place in the culture of Native Americans That maxim states: "We do not
   inherit the world from our ancestors; we borrow the world from our
   children." Last year, we awarded a total of 101 after-school and youth
   development grants  funding for 77 new programs and 24 existing
   programs. These grants represent one of the wisest, most cost-
   effective investments we can make. All the available data indicate
   children are most likely to get into trouble between the hours of 3
   p.m. and 6 p.m.  the hours after school ends and parents typically
   return from work. Law enforcement officials tell us that structured
   after-school programs are essential in reducing juvenile crime and
   preventing juveniles from becoming victims of crime. Our goal is to
   ensure that every child in Philadelphia  every child  enjoys the social
   enrichment, the academic opportunities, and the personal safety offered
   by after-school and youth development programs. This budget, therefore,
   requests $23 million to support our child- centered programs in the
   Department of Human Services. 18 We must honor our commitment to
   children, and we must do so despite the challenging fiscal climate we
   now confront: *Current economic projections tell us that growth in
   revenues from wage, sales, and business privilege taxes will remain
   sluggish until at least the third quarter of 2002. *Homeland defense
   initiatives will cost our City $21 million before the end of FY02. *The
   costs of our criminal justice system  the result of improving safety
   throughout the City and increasing arrests by 28 percent since 1996
   will continue to outpace inflation. This is the backdrop against which
   my administration worked to develop the budget we offer today. We are
   facing a tough budget year. The Operating Budget and the accompanying
   Five- Year Plan project moderate revenue growth (less than one percent)
   and moderate inflation (2.5 percent). This budget addresses our
   greatest needs, builds upon the success of our first two years, and
   invests strategically in our future. It is designed to inspire
   confidence among our citizens and within our business community. Given
   the state of the national economy and the challenges I have described,
   this budget is tight and has little flexibility. It prescribes the
   fiscal discipline necessary to protect the City's long-range financial
   well being. 19 This budget sustains City services at current levels. It
   will require some sacrifices, but it makes prudent and targeted
   investments  in quality programs for children, neighborhood
   transformation, job creation, and strategies to make Philadelphia
   fertile ground for growth of the knowledge-based economy. These are the
   critical priorities of my "Vision for a better Philadelphia." The
   Five-Year Plan proposes an important restructuring of the City's tax
   reduction program. Unfortunately, given the downturn in the economy,
   increased speinding for security, and our contribution to the School
   District, we cannot afford the current tax reduction program. We
   propose to reduce the overall tax reduction program by approximately 50
   million dollars over the five year period. While we support the tax
   reductions scheduled for FY03, beginning in FY04 we propose greater
   reductions in the gross receipts portion of the business privilege tax.
   In fact, by FY07, under our restructured tax reduction program, the
   goss receipts taxs will be only half of what it was when our tax
   reduction program began in 1996. Beginning in FY04, we will freeze the
   wage tax at FY03 rates. We are targeting the gross receipts tax because
   it is the City's most onerous, anti-business, and anti-job tax. If,
   however, the economy recovers and there are no further unexpected blows
   to our budget, we will responsibly restore the 50m reduction and reduce
   the dreaded gross receipts tax even further! Let me bring to your
   attention several important items in this budget: 20 *The General Fund
   fully supports wage and benefit costs for a deserving workforce of
   25,440 men and women, including approximately 2,500 firefighters and
   6,900 police officers. * We will be a safer city. We will upgrade
   homeland security and emergency preparedness while providing funds to
   fight 10,800 fires, make 182,000 EMS runs, process 80,000 arrests and
   house 8,034 inmates. *The budget provides the Department of Streets
   with the funding to complete 2.7 million square yards of street
   resurfacing and repair of every reported pothole within four days. It
   will enable us to collect 770,702 tons of refuse per year  and we will
   do this on time, more than 95 percent of the time. *This budget
   provides DHS services for 23,700 children, and ensures that 550 of our
   most vulnerable citizens will be adopted into loving homes. In
   addition, we will open an additional nine Beacons Schools, which make
   neighborhoods partners in providing community services and meeting the
   needs of children. *This budget takes advantage of the departure of
   over 1,000 non-uniform employees who are enrolled in the Deferred
   Enrollment Option Program (DROP). I am challenging Department's to
   leave open vacancies caused by DROP departures, substantially reducing
   the City's workforce and reducing the City's costs by $55 million
   between FY03 and FY07. 21 Today starts a New Year for this City
   Council. During your recess I have had an opportunity between Eagles
   celebrations to spend time with many of you, and I hope in the near
   future with all of you. I am not oblivious to your concerns. This City
   needs us working together. I am committed to working harder at
   responding to your concerns, listening to your ideas, and earning your
   support. Politics has its place, but should never undermine the good of
   the City. I respectfully request that you focus on the substance of
   this budget. It is an honest document, and it defines in stark terms
   the challenges for my administration and this Council. This year we
   cannot ignore the turbulent economy that is upon us, but neither can we
   allow it to unsettle our focus on a better Philadelphia for tomorrow.
   This year will test our resolve. I, for one, am confident. Most of us
   go back a long way. We have made many tough decisions  tougher than
   those we now face  over the past two decades to keep our City solvent
   and point Philadelphia in a better direction. Now, once again, we are
   called to action! This budget reflects the priorities of people in
   neighborhoods across the City. It is not everything we want, but it is
   what Philadelphia needs. I am confident. I know we are committed and
   firmly believe we will remain steadfast in our focus: on creating jobs,
   transforming neighborhoods, fortifying our economy, and offering our
   children the opportunity to live, love, learn, grow, and become
   responsible, productive citizens who will lead Philadelphia through the
   challenges of this new millennium. 22 Together, Council President
   Verna, together, Majority Leader Blackwell, together, Majority Whip
   Tasco, together, Minority Leader O'Neill, and together, each and every
   member of this Council: We will make the tough decisions necessary to
   meet our obligation and implement our shared vision of a better 21st
   Century Philadelphia. Together, we will get the job done. THANK YOU,
   God bless you, and God bless our City. 23
