http://cdserver.er.usgs.gov/bnfdlc99.htm

How to Use the Digital Library on the Web and on a Web-Connected CD-ROM

   Last updated 3/1/99
     __________________________________________________________________

   Table of Contents

     Overview

     Query Syntax and Multiple Infobase Query

     Web-Connected CD-ROMs

     Introduction

     Understanding the User Interface

     Browsing Infobases

     Searching Infobases

     Next Version-New Open Market Virtual Library

   Overview
   Figure 1. Digital Library of the State of the Environment on the Web in
   Browse View
   [bniemann-fig1.gif]

   Folio delivers the same content with essentially the same interface on
   both the Web and CD-ROM. All the elements of the interface are defined
   below.

   Figure 1 shows one of six different views of infobases in the digital
   library, namely, Browse with the Contents in the left side frame and
   the Reference and the Document frames in the middle. The frames may be
   resized with the mouse and the interface may be customized (e.g.
   simplified with fewer choices for beginning users on both the Web and
   CD-ROM). The Contents frame contains a hyperlinked table of contents
   that may be expanded ( Icon_Plus ) or collapsed ( Icon_Minus ), and
   together with the Reference frame tells you where you are in the
   overall structure of the infobase. The All view is best for searching
   and when you need to you want to see all the information at once. The
   Search view is best for finding the most relevany information because
   it provides the Hit List view at the bottom. The Hit List view allows
   you to view as many references in the hit list as possible and link to
   them. The Document view is for reading the information especially after
   you have narrowed the search while the Contents view is best for
   navigating and scanning the table of contents.

   Folio also provides for query templates on both the CD-ROM and the Web
   distributions to facilitate searching by fields as well as by words and
   phrases when the infobase contains fielded information like dates,
   numeric data, etc. Furthermore, the Folio search results take the user
   directly to hits in documents or table of contents headings as well as
   to hit list with relevance ranking.

   All of the interface elements are defined below:

     Simple Combined View: What you see after doing a word search and
   selecting the All Tab
   Simple_Combined_View

     Document Tab: When you want to read the document
   Document_Tab

     Simple Document View
   Simple_Document_View

     Contents Tab: When you want to browse and use the dynamic Table of
   Contents
   Contents_Tab

     Simple Table of Contents View
   Simple_TOC_View

     Icon-Plus: Click to expand to see subheadings
   Icon_Plus

     Icon-Minus: Click to collapse to hid the subheadings
   Icon_Minus

     Icon-Empty: When there are no subheadings
   Icon_Empty

     Query Single: Click to enter a query and its specifications
   Query_Single

     Search Edit Window: Enter a word or phrase and hit Enter
   Search_Edit_Window

     Simple Query Form: Use for field searches (e.g. dates, etc.) when
   provided with infobase
   Simple_Query_Form

     Query Multiple: Select multiple infobases to search
   Query_Multiple

     Simple Intermediate Query Results: Help you decide which infobases to
   look at for search hits
   Simple_Intermediate_Query_Results

     Hit List Tab: Use to browse the list of search hits
   Hit

     Simple Hit List View: What you see after doing a word search and
   selecting the Hit List Tab
   Simple_Hit_List_View

     Left and Right Hit Marks: How the search hits are marked
   Left Search Hit Right

     Next Hit: Use to jump forword from one hit to the next
   Next_Hit

     Previous Hit: Use to jump backward from one hit to the previous
   Previous_Hit

     Next Page-sans sursor: Navigation button to go forword to next page
   Next_Page_sans_cursor

     Next Page-with cursor: Same as previous when cursor is present
   Next_Page_with_cursor

     Previous Page-sans cursor: Navigation button to go back to previous
   page
   Previous_Page_sans_cursor

     Previous Page-with cursor: Same as previous when cursor is present
   Previous_Page_with_cursor

     Help: Provides customized help when provided with the infobase and/or
   Web site
   Help

   Query Syntax and Multiple Infobase Query

     How to search an infobase

     Multiple Infobase or Document Query Interface

   Web-Connected CD-ROMs
   The Convergence Hits Home: A Survey of Late Breaking Web-Connected
   Titles-SIGCAT '98 Conference, May 20, 1998

   Introduction
   The information is stored in Folio Corporation's infobase format and
   converted to HTML on-the-fly. The infobase format allows you, accessing
   this site through your web browser, to search for and view information
   in ways that go beyond traditional HTML indexing and display paradigms.

   This help file should provide you with the basics of using Folio
   siteDirector 4, including:

     Understanding the User Interface - Folio siteDirector makes use of
   several default buttons and views that may be new to you.

     Browsing Infobases - Folio siteDirector serves HTML pages in your
   browser. However, because there is an infobase on the back end of that
   HTML, there is some functionality available for browsing information
   that may be new to you.

     Searching Infobases - The powerful Folio search engine enables you to
   find what you need, when you need it.
   Use the buttons on each page to move you forward or back through this
   help file. Or, use the table of contents to browse through the
   infobase. To search, click the Query button.

   Understanding the User Interface
   Folio siteDirector allows site administrators to completely customize
   how infobases are displayed over the web. As such, the appearance of
   the site you are currently using may be completely different from any
   other site running Folio siteDirector. However, typically there are
   several components that are constant. This section describes those
   components.

     Document View

     Contents View

     Hit List View

     Query Views

     Intermediate Query Results

     Combined Views

     Standard Buttons

   Document View
   The document view displays the main body of the infobase. Within the
   document view, you can read the text of the infobase, view images, and
   follow links to other areas in the infobase. Usually, the document view
   provides links (either text or graphic buttons) to take you to the next
   or previous page of information in the infobase. The document view also
   highlights the hits from queries on the infobase. Usually, these hits
   are marked by red arrows. For example, this is an Left example hit
   Right .

   Below is a simple document view. Note the graphics at the top of the
   page; these are for moving forward and back through the infobase.
   Simple_Document_View

   Contents View
   The Contents view displays the table of contents for an infobase. The
   table of contents may be expanded or collapsed by clicking the
   Icon_Plus and Icon_Minus images next to each heading in the view. Click
   a Icon_Plus to expand a branch of the table of contents; click a
   Icon_Minus to collapse a branch.

   Each heading in the contents view is linked to the corresponding
   information in the body of the infobase. When you follow the link, the
   information is displayed in a document view.

   Below is a simple contents view. Note the Icon_Plus and Icon_Minus
   images next to the headings that can be expanded or collapsed. Also
   note the Icon_Empty images next to headings which are fully expanded.
   Simple_TOC_View

   Hit List View
   The Hit List view displays a summary of query hits for the infobase.
   This view is only populated if you have performed a search on the
   infobase.

   The hit list view will have at least one column; often, it will have
   two or more columns. Text in the first column is always linked to the
   corresponding information in the body of the infobase. When you follow
   the link, the information is displayed in a document view.

   The hit list view most often displays the relative rank of the hit in
   the first column and the heading path in the second column. The
   relative rank only applies to ranked queries (as is done through a
   simple query and through some custom query forms). The heading path
   lists the parent headings of the information (such as Chapter 2 \
   Section 3 \ Item 47). These are the same headings as are displayed in
   the contents view.

   The hit list may also display a snippet from the body of the infobase,
   showing a few words around each actual query hit, beneath the heading
   list. You could use this information to better identify the context of
   the hit before linking to the full information. Below is a simple hit
   list view. Note the information in the columns. Also note that only the
   first column is linked.
   Simple_Hit_List_View

   Query Views
   The query views provide a form for you to query one or more infobases.
   Typically, the form provides a list box to choose the infobases you
   wish to query and one or more fields to enter the terms you wish to
   search for. It may also provide a set of options to control how the
   information is displayed.

   There are basically two types of queries: the simple query and the
   advanced query. The simple query does not require you to know anything
   about the Folio query syntax and provides ranked results. The advanced
   query requires that you understand the Folio query syntax and does not
   provide ranked results by default. Most single-field query forms use
   the simple query method; multiple-field query forms usually use the
   advanced query method. However, most multiple-field query forms attempt
   to hide the Folio query syntax from you (they make sure the syntax is
   correct for you), so you do not need to learn it unless you want to.

   See Simple Queries and Advanced Queries for more information.

   Below is a query view that uses the simple query method. Note the list
   of infobases to choose from and the single field for entering the terms
   wish to search for.
   Simple_Query_Form

   Intermediate Query Results
   After performing a search, you may be taken to an intermediate query
   results page. Rather than taking you to the first hit in the document
   view, this page shows you the number of hits for each infobase that you
   searched. Some also display a query map to help you see which terms had
   the greatest effect on the search. The query map allows you to see
   immediately if a structure or term is part of the infobase, as well as
   which combinations of structures and terms provide hits.

   From the intermediate query results page, you can link to the document
   view to see the first hit in the selected infobase.

   Below is a simple query results page.
   Simple_Intermediate_Query_Results

   Combined Views
   Using frames, these basic views may be combined on a single page. For
   example, a common view shows the contents view on the left of the page
   and the document view on the right. Following links in the contents
   view updates the document view. Another common view shows the document
   view on the top of the page and the hit list view on the bottom of the
   page. Again, as you follow links from the hit list, the document is
   updated.

   No matter what combination of views the site designer creates, simply
   remember that the primary functionality comes from the Document,
   Contents, or Hit List views (query views are usually on their own
   page).

   Below is a simple combined view, showing the contents, document, and
   hit list views. Note that a query hit is highlighted in the document
   view.
   Simple_Combined_View

   Standard Buttons
   siteDirector includes several standard buttons to aid in navigating
   through infobases. These include buttons for moving to the next and
   previous page, moving to the next and previous hit, querying the
   infobase, or changing to another view of the infobase.

   The standard buttons are divided into the following categories:

     Navigation Buttons

     View Buttons

     Query Buttons

   Navigation Buttons
   Navigation buttons help you move through the infobase. These buttons
   include:

     Next & Previous Page

     Next & Previous Hit

   Next & Previous Page
   Previous_Page_with_cursor   Next_Page_with_cursor Folio siteDirector
   transfers only a discrete portion of the infobase to the browser for
   display; this saves time and bandwidth. These buttons display the
   previous or next portion of the infobase when clicked. Notice that the
   buttons change when the cursor is placed over them.

   Next & Previous Hit
   Next_Hit   Previous_Hit
   Query hits are highlighted with arrow icons ( Left query hit Right ).
   By clicking the Previous and Next Hit buttons, the browser displays the
   appropriate hit.

   View Tabs
   View tabs are displayed in the bottom pane of the browser window and
   allow you to choose the display you wish to see. These tabs include:

     Document

     Contents

     Hit List

   Document
   Document_Tab
   Clicking the Document tab displays the document view of an infobase,
   allowing you to view the main body of information for the infobase.

   Contents
   Contents_Tab
   Clicking the Contents tab displays the contents view of an infobase.
   The contents view contains a fully functional infobase Table of
   Contents window, complete with expandable and collapsible branches. You
   may follow links from the headings in the contents view to the document
   view.

   Hit List
   Hit
   Clicking the Hit List tab displays the hit list view of an infobase. If
   no query has been performed, the hit list is empty; if a query has been
   performed, then the hit list displays heading information for each hit.
   You may follow links from headings in the hit list view to the document
   view.

   The other tabs -- All, Search, and Browse -- combine the other views in
   useful ways.

   Query Buttons
   Query buttons display different query forms for you to use.

   Query Single or Multiple Infobases
   Query_Single   Query_Multiple
   The query single infobase button displays a form that queries a single
   infobase. The query multiple infobase button displays a form that
   allows you to search several infobases at once. These buttons may use
   the simple query format, which automatically ranks queries by relevance
   or the advanced query format (which allows you to take advantage of the
   powerful Folio query syntax), or a custom query form which provides you
   with several fields to fill in before submitting the query.
   Search_Edit_Window

   Additionally, you can simply type your query in the query edit box and
   click the Search button. The query edit box is located in the bottom
   pane of your browser when viewing an infobase.

   Browsing Infobases
   Users familiar with the World Wide Web understand the HTML browsing
   paradigm. Navigating a series of HTML pages is made possible by
   clicking hypertext links or by pressing the Forward or Back buttons on
   your Web browser.

   Not surprisingly, infobases delivered to your browser in HTML act just
   like the HTML pages that you encounter on the Web every day. However,
   Folio siteDirector does provide some additional functionality that
   makes browsing large collections of information easier.

     Browsing with Previous/Next

     Browsing with the Table of Contents

     Browsing with the Hit List

   Browsing with Previous/Next
   Typically, each document page (and often, each contents and hit list
   page) contains next and previous buttons. The next button loads the
   next set of information from the infobase; the previous button loads
   the previous set.

   Use these buttons to read through the available information.
   Previous_Page_with_cursor   Next_Page_with_cursor

   Notice that the image changes when the cursor is placed over the
   button.

   Browsing with the Table of Contents
   Folio siteDirector builds a dynamically linked Table of Contents for
   each infobase. Headings listed in the Table of Contents window are
   linked to the corresponding information in the infobase.

   The Table of Contents is a powerful tool for finding information
   quickly in the infobase. In order for you to be able to use it
   effectively, though, you must be familiar with the following processes:

     Linking from Headings

     Expanding & Collapsing Headings

   Linking from Headings
   Each heading in the Contents window is linked to the corresponding
   section in the infobase. These links are created automatically by
   siteDirector based upon the structure of the infobase.

   To link from any heading (or any other line which may appear in the
   Table of Contents window):
   1 Click the heading in the Contents view that you wish to link to.

     The document view should update to display the text of the infobase
   at the heading specified.
   You may need to expand parts of the Table of Contents to find the
   heading you wish to link to.

   Expanding & Collapsing Headings
   Headings in the Table of Contents may have sub-headings beneath them.
   These sub-headings may be individually displayed or hidden (expanded or
   collapsed), depending on what you need to see.

   To expand or collapse headings:
   1 Click any plus ( Icon_Plus ) or minus ( Icon_Minus ) to expand or
   collapse the heading.

     A Icon_Plus indicates that the heading may be expanded.

     A Icon_Minus indicates that the heading may be collapsed.

     A Icon_Empty indicates that the level is fully expanded.

   Browsing with the Hit List
   After you perform a search on the infobase, Folio siteDirector
   generates a hit list. This hit list provides summary information about
   each hit, including where the hit is located in the infobase. Depending
   on how the infobase is set up and the type of query performed, the hit
   list may also display the relative rank of each hit.

   Each entry in the hit list is linked to the corresponding text in the
   infobase. By scanning the hit list, you can quickly identify
   information that may be of use to you and then link to it.

   Linking from the Hit List
   The first column in the hit list is linked to the document text in the
   infobase. To link from the hit list to the document text:
   1 Click the information in the Hit List view that you wish to link to.

     The document view should update to display the text of the infobase
   at the heading specified.

   Searching Infobases
   If you can't find it, you can't use it. Thankfully, Folio siteDirector
   is able to tap into the Folio search engine to help you locate the
   information you need.

   This section will cover the topics listed below. Click on a link for a
   detailed discussion of a particular topic.

     Simple Queries - Steps for performing a simple query on one or more
   infobases. Simple queries do no require you to know any query syntax
   and return the most relevant hits.

     Advanced Queries - Steps for performing an advanced query on one or
   more infobases. Advanced queries require you to understand some of the
   Folio query syntax and returns the hits in the order that they appear
   in the infobase.

     Using Query Forms - Query forms provide one or more entry fields to
   help you locate information in an infobase. Usually, they mask the
   query syntax from you, allowing you to focus on what you want to find
   rather than the mechanics of finding it.

     Navigating Hits - Once you have completed your search, there are
   several ways to browse the information you have found.

     The Folio Query Syntax - Provides details on the portions of the
   Folio query syntax most often used with siteDirector.

     Query Display Options - Reviews the display options you may set after
   (or in the process) of performing a query.

   Simple Queries
   Simple queries are automatically ranked by relevance. The first hit is
   the most relevant and the last hit is the least relevant. (Relevance is
   determined using an industry-standard formula).

   Results from a relevancy ranked search are displayed in relevant order
   in the Hit List. Following a link in the hit list takes you to the full
   text of the hit in the document view.

   To perform a simple search using Folio siteDirector 4:
   1 Click the Query button.

     The Query form should appear.
   2 Select one or more infobases to search in.

     Click on a single infobase in the list to search a single infobase.

     Hold down the CTRL key and click on additional infobases to search
   multiple infobases.
   3 Enter the keywords you wish to search for.

     Separate terms with spaces.

     To search for an exact phrase, enclose the terms in double quotes
   (such as "the king and I").
   4 Set any desired display options for the query.

     See Query Display Options for more information.
   5 Choose Query to submit the search.

   After submitting the search, you are taken to one of two pages:

     A page containing a summary of the results of the query and a link to
   the document view for the infobase

     A page containing the first hit.

   If you search multiple infobases, the first page gives you a chance to
   review the hit summaries and decide which infobase to view. The second
   option simply takes you to the first hit in the first queried infobase.

   If necessary, select which infobase to view and then use the Next Hit
   and Previous Hit buttons to move through the search hits. See
   Navigating Hits for other ways of moving between search hits.

   Advanced Queries
   Advanced queries give you more control over your searches than simple
   queries do. However, they require that you understand some of the Folio
   Query Syntax. They also are not ranked; the hits are listed in the
   order that they appear in the infobase.

   Advanced queries allow you to control how the search is evaluated. You
   can specify Boolean operators or proximity operators and use wildcards
   to expand what you are searching for.

   To perform an advanced query search using Folio siteDirector 4:
   1 Click the Advanced Query button.

     The Advanced Query form should appear.
   2 Select one or more infobases to search in.

     Click on a single infobase in the list to search a single infobase.

     Hold down the CTRL key and click on additional infobases to search
   multiple infobases.
   3 Type the words you wish to search for, separated by a space or the
   appropriate operator.

     You may search by keyword (not using any specific operators). For
   example:
   paragraph formatting options

     You may search for an exact phrase. Enclose the phrase in quotation
   marks. For example:
   "to be or not to be"

     You may use Boolean operators (and, or, not, exclusive or). For
   example:
   dog and cat
   dog or cat
   dog not cat
   dog xor cat

     You may use wildcards (single character, multiple character, word
   form, synonym). For example:
   wor?
   work*
   work%
   work$

     You may use proximity operators to specify how close terms must be.
   For example: "netscape infobase"/5

     If you wish to modify a previous query, click the Prev button next to
   the Query For box to display the previous query.

     Note that as you type, the Query dialog attempts to complete the word
   you are typing with a word contained in the infobase. If the word is
   correct, press the ENTER key and type the next term.
   4 Set any desired display options for the query.

     See Query Display Options for more information.
   5 Choose Query to submit the search.

     A page containing a summary of the results of the query and a link to
   the document view for the infobase

     A page containing the first hit.

   If you search multiple infobases, the first page gives you a chance to
   review the hit summaries and decide which infobase to view. The second
   option simply takes you to the first hit in the first queried infobase.

   If necessary, select which infobase to view and then use the Next Hit
   and Previous Hit buttons to move through the search hits. See
   Navigating Hits for other ways of moving between search hits.

   Using Query Forms
   Many sites provide custom query forms to simplify searching for
   specific items. These forms typically ask you to fill in one or more
   fields on the form. Some fields may be required.

   The site administrator should provide additional help information for
   complicated query forms. In general, the process for using a query form
   is:
   1 Click on the Query Form button.

     The actual button used, and its name, will vary depending on the
   site.

     The query form should appear.
   2 Fill in as many fields as necessary.

     Typically, the more fields you fill in, the more precise the search
   will be.

     You may be able to use various operators from the Folio Query Syntax.
   3 Set any desired display options for the query.

     See Query Display Options for more information.
   4 Choose Query to submit the search.

     A page containing a summary of the results of the query and a link to
   the document view for the infobase

     A page containing the first hit.

   If you search multiple infobases, the first page gives you a chance to
   review the hit summaries and decide which infobase to view. The second
   option simply takes you to the first hit in the first queried infobase.

   If necessary, select which infobase to view and then use the Next Hit
   and Previous Hit buttons to move through the search hits. See
   Navigating Hits for other ways of moving between search hits.

   Navigating Hits
   Once you have created and evaluated a query, you can view the search
   results in the infobase or infobases you've searched. Folio
   siteDirector gives you two ways to look at your search results --
   browsing , the Hit List, and Table of Contents.

   Navigating Hits: Browsing
   Search hits are highlighted with red arrow icons. For example: Left
   Example Hit Right

   Use the Next Hit and Previous Hit buttons to move from one page of hits
   to the next. (The Next and Previous buttons simply take you to the next
   page, which may or may not contain hits.)

   Navigating Hits: Hit List
   Use the Hit List view (if provided) to see a summary of the hits in the
   infobase. Usually, the heading where the hit is located is displayed,
   which gives you an idea of the context for the hit and helps you
   evaluate its importance.

   The first column in the hit list is linked to the corresponding heading
   in the body of the infobase. Following the link usually displays a
   document view of the infobase, which you may then browse through using
   the Next Hit and Previous Hit buttons.

   Navigating Hits: Table of Contents
   Use the Table of Contents view to see the table of contents for the
   infobase. Some search forms allow you to set display options for the
   table of contents (including words around hits and query results). If
   these options are set, then you can quickly scan through the table of
   contents for the heading which contain the most hits (query results) or
   which have the right context (words around hits).

   Each heading in the table of contents is linked to the corresponding
   heading in the body of the infobase. Following the link usually
   displays the document view of the infobase, which you may then browse
   through using the Next Hit and Previous Hit buttons.

   For more information on how to use the Table of Contents, see Browsing
   With the Table of Contents.

   The Folio Query Syntax
   Folio siteDirector allows Web users to access the infobase search
   engine to perform full-text queries for the information they need --
   quickly and easily. The basic query constructions detailed here will
   enable you to search infobases (or groups of infobases) in a variety of
   ways.

   Please note that the Folio query syntax is only for use with advanced
   queries. This syntax does not work with simple queries.

   Also note that these syntax elements may be combined for different
   effects. Constructions may be grouped together using parentheses, if
   necessary.

   Basic query constructions include:

     Keyword & Phrase Searches

     Boolean Operator Searches

     Wildcard Searches

     Proximity Searches

   Keyword & Phrase Searches
   Keyword and phrase searches are the most basic types of searches you
   can perform in Folio Views. They are the building blocks for all other
   types of searches.

   A keyword search finds all records which contain the words you specify.
   Separate key words by spaces.

   A phrase search finds all records which contain an exact phrase. The
   phrase you wish to find must be enclosed in quotes.

   Keyword Searches
   Type each word you wish to search for, separated by spaces, into the
   Advanced Query dialog.

   Query         Explanation
   cat           Finds all records which contain cat
   cat dog       Finds all records which contain both cat and dog (in any order)
   cat dog mouse Finds all records which contain all three of the words
                 cat, dog, and mouse (in any order)

   Phrase
   Type the phrase you wish to search for in full quotation marks.

   Note that a phrase is considered to be a single term and may be used as
   a keyword (see the second example, below).

   Also note that phrases may use wildcards. See Wildcard Searches for
   more information.

   Query Explanation
   "to be or not to be" Finds all records which contain the exact phrase
   "to be or not to be"
   "president lincoln" assassination Finds all records which contain both
   the exact phrase "president lincoln" and the word assassination. Note
   that this combines a phrase search and a keyword search.
   "the great* debate" Finds all records which contain phrases which match
   the pattern (such as "the great debate" or "the greatest debate").

   Boolean Operator Searches (And, Or, Not, XOr)
   The Boolean operators allow you to refine your queries to focus on more
   specific or more general information than may be found with a single
   word or phrase search.

   Boolean operators require a word or phrase on either side of the
   operator. For example, dog or cat is a valid query, but or cat is not.

   There are four Boolean operators: And, Or, Not, Exclusive Or. See
   Operator Precedence for a discussion of the precedence (order of
   execution) of these operators and how to override the precedence.

   And
   Use the And operator to search for multiple words in the same record
   (this is same as the multiple word search described in Simple Queries).

   The And operator may be specified any one of three ways: a single space
   between words, the ampersand &, or the word and.

   Query                      Explanation
   ham eggs
   ham & eggs
   ham and eggs               Finds all record which contain both ham and eggs
   ham & eggs and "cold milk" Finds all record which contain ham, eggs,
                              and the phrase "cold milk"

   Or
   Use the Or operator to search for multiple words in the infobase (the
   words may or may not be in the same record).

   The Or operator may be specified one of two ways: the pipe | or the
   word or.

   Query Explanation
   me | you
   me or you Finds all records which contain either me or you (may contain
   both)
   me or you and him Finds all records which contain him and either me or
   you (or both me and you). (See Operator Precedence for additional
   explanation on these results.)

   Not
   Use the Not operator to search for records which do not contain a
   particular term or set of terms. Not is actually a unary operator (it
   can be used by itself), but it is often used in between two terms (find
   records which contain A but not B).

   Generally, the best way to think of the Not operator when used between
   two terms (A not B) is "find records with A and find records without B"
   (A and not B).

   The Not operator may be specified one of two ways: the caret ^ or the
   word not.

   Query Explanation
   dog ^ cat
   dog not cat Finds all records which contain dog but which do not
   contain cat.
   ^ spinach
   not spinach Finds all records which do not contain spinach. (In this
   type of query, nothing is highlighted. Next & Previous Hit take you to
   the next and previous records which do not contain the term.)

   XOr (Exclusive Or)
   Use the XOr operator to search for records which contain one of two
   words but not both.

   The XOr operator may be specified one of two ways: the tilde ~or the
   term xor.

   Query          Explanation
   john ~ smith
   john xor smith Finds all records which contain either john or smith but
                  which do not contain both john and smith.

   Operator Precedence
   The query operators have a precedence order. That is, when two more
   operators are used in a query, the results of one operator will be
   evaluated before another operator. Understanding the precedence -- and
   how to override the precedence -- can assist you in finding the
   information you need.

   The operator precedence is:
   Not, Or, XOr, And

   If the same operators are used in a query (for example, if Or appears
   twice in a query), the operators are evaluated from left-to-right.

   For example, consider the following query:
   dog or cat and mouse not cheese

   This query is evaluated in the following order:
   1. not cheese (records which do not contain cheese)
   2. dog or cat (records which contain either dog or cat)
   3. and mouse (and all records in the identified subset which contain
   mouse).

   These rules allow you to create powerful queries; however, they can
   also be confusing. To ensure the correct terms are combined with the
   correct operators, use parentheses around the terms and operators.

   For example, the following queries all produce different results:
   dog and (cat or mouse) not cheese dog and cat or (mouse not cheese)
   (dog and cat) or (mouse not cheese) The following query is the same as
   the first query in the above list, but is more explicit:
   (dog and (cat or mouse)) not cheese

   Wildcard Searches
   Wildcards allow you to find words using patterns for a set of words
   (replacing single or multiple characters) and to find synonyms or word
   forms of a word.

   Note that wildcards may be used in phrase and proximity searches.

   Note: Site administrators can deny wildcard and phrase searches on
   individual infobases. If the infobase is not optimized for these types
   of searches, then the search can significantly slow down siteDirector.

   Single Character
   Use the single character wildcard to replace any single character in a
   term. Note that this wildcard is a replacement wildcard -- there must
   be a character in the wildcard position to register a hit.

   Two or more single character wildcards may be used in the same term, if
   necessary.

   The single character wildcard is the question mark ?.

   Query Explanation
   wom?n Finds all terms which match the pattern (such as woman, women, or
   wom9n).
   b??k Finds all four letter words which start with b and end with k
   (such as book, bilk, or bark).
   "the best advi?e" Finds all phrases which match the pattern (such as
   "the best advise" or "the best advice").

   Multiple Character
   Use the multiple character wildcard to replace 0 or more characters in
   a term.

   Two or more multiple character wildcards may be used in the same term,
   if necessary.

   The multiple character wildcard is the asterisk (or star) *.

   Query Explanation
   t*t Finds all terms which start with a t and end with a t (such as tt,
   that, or trident).
   work* Finds all terms which start with the pattern work (such as work,
   worked, or workhorse).
   *ed Finds all terms which end in ed (such as worked, overloaded, or
   red).
   "the great* debate" Finds all records which contain phrases which match
   the pattern (such as "the great debate" or "the greatest debate").

   Synonym (or Thesaurus)
   Use the synonym (or thesaurus) wildcard to find synonyms of a term.
   Note that you cannot specify usage for the synonym; searching for
   synonyms of address could find both location ("What is your address?")
   and speak ("He addressed the audience").

   The synonym wildcard is the dollar sign $. (Since the $ looks like an
   S, you can remember that it applies to Synonym searches.)

   Note that the synonym wildcard must appear at the end of the term. The
   synonym wildcard may not be mixed with any other wildcards in the same
   term.

   Query Explanation
   work$ Finds synonyms of the term work (such as toil, effort, or trade).
   run$ run% Finds synonyms of run and word forms of run (word forms are
   discussed below). Synonym examples include run, jog, or trot. Word stem
   examples include run or ran.

   Word Form (or Stem)
   Use the word form (or stem) wildcard to find forms of a term. Word
   forms are defined by the parts of speech -- singular, plural, past
   tense, present tense, future tense, etc. Note that you do not need to
   specify a root word to perform a word form search. A word form search
   on long (a root word) should produce the same results as a word form
   search on longer.

   The word form wildcard is the percentage sign %.

   Note that the word form wildcard must appear at the end of the term.
   The word form wildcard may not be mixed with any other wildcards in the
   same term.

   Query             Explanation
   work%             Finds word forms of the term work (such as work, works, or
                     worked).
   jump%             Finds word forms of the term jump (such as jump or jumped).
   "one if by land%" Finds phrases which begin with "one if by" and which
                     end in word forms of land (such as land or landed).

   Proximity Searches
   Proximity searches allow you to specify how close two (or more) words
   must be to each other in the same record in order to register a hit.

   You can specify either word proximity or record proximity searches.

   Word Proximity
   Word proximity allows you to specify a range that all terms in the
   proximity search must appear in. The terms must be contained in the
   same record.

   Word proximity searches may be ordered or unordered.

   When creating a word proximity search, you must specify a range for the
   search. All terms in the proximity must appear in the specified range.
   The first word from the proximity search that is found begins the count
   for the range.

   For example, an ordered proximity search to find dog, cat, and rat
   within a 10 word range must find dog first. Dog counts as one word in
   the range. Both cat and rat must be found within the next nine words to
   register a hit. (In an unordered proximity, it would not matter which
   term was found first; the other two terms must be found within the next
   nine words.)

   Note that wildcards may be used in phrase and proximity searches.

   Ordered Proximity
   Use ordered proximity to specify the order in which terms must appear
   within a given range to count as a hit. This is more restrictive than
   the unordered proximity search.

   The ordered proximity operator is the forward slash /. Terms in an
   ordered proximity search must be enclosed in quotes.

   As a side note, you may be interested to know that a phrase search is
   basically an ordered proximity search with a proximity equal to the
   number of terms in the phrase.

   Query                  Explanation
   "franklin roosevelt"/5 Finds records which contain both franklin and
                          roosevelt, in that order, within a five word range.
   "me and my shadow"/10  Finds records which contain these four terms, in
                          order, within a 10 word range.

   Unordered Proximity
   Use unordered proximity to specify a set of terms which must appear
   within a given range in any order.

   The unordered proximity operator is the at symbol @. Terms in an
   unordered proximity search must be enclosed in quotes.

   Query Explanation
   "trick treat halloween"@14 Finds records which contain all three terms,
   in any order, within a 14 word range.
   "work* fire$"/25 Finds records with contain terms which start with work
   and synonyms of the term fire within 25 words of each other.

   Record Proximity
   Record proximity allows you to specify the maximum number of records
   between terms. For example, you could perform a record proximity search
   for the terms Smith, Wesson, and revolver within a 5 record range. All
   three terms must appear within a five contiguous record set to count as
   a hit.

   The record proximity operator is the pound sign (or hash mark) #. Terms
   in a record proximity search must be enclosed in quotes.

   Query Explanation
   "jones smith theft deny"#3 Finds records which contain these terms
   within a 3 record range (this search might be used when searching a
   deposition with question and answer pairs).
   "franklin lightning kite curly hair"#10 Finds records which contain
   these terms within a 10 record range.

   Query Display Options
   The query display options are usually available from one of the query
   forms (query, advanced query, or custom query form) or from an
   intermediate query summary page. These options allow you to control the
   display of information in the document, hit list, or contents views.

   Document View
   Records with Hits -- This option displays only those records which
   contain query hits. Use this feature to quickly scan through the hits;
   there may also be a button available to expand the view to show the
   records in context (this option is up to the site developer).

   Contents View
   Heading with Hits -- Displays only headings which have hits. Use this
   to get a quick snapshot of the relevant headings in the table of
   contents.

   Query Results -- Displays the number of hits in each heading next to
   the heading. Use this information to help you identify the sections
   which are most relevant to your search. Also called Hits per Heading.

   Words Around Hits -- Displays a specified number of words around each
   hit in the table of contents. Use this option to view the text of the
   hits in partial context. Usually, you must specify the number of words
   around the hits; valid values are 2 - 9.

   Hit List View
   Words Around Hits -- Displays a specified number of words around each
   hit in the hit list. Use this option to view the text of the hits in
   partial context. Usually, you must specify the number of words around
   the hits; valid values are 2 - 9.

   Next Version-New Open Market Virtual Library
   This new on-line document and demo resource is built using Open Market
   Folio Infobase technology and is being served to your browser using
   Folio siteDirector.

   The new Virtual Library offers a number of enhancements:

     Full text searching of document contents

     Parametric searching of selected Library Card fields such as Document
   Type, Product Focus, Industry Focus and Venue

     Easy conversion to CD-ROM delivery

     Multi-level access control

     Support for distributed authoring

   How to use the Library

     Getting your bearings: When you launch the Library, your default view
   is the Contents View.

     The Contents View presents an expandable, resizable Contents Window
   on the left, where documents are listed by type, a Document Window on
   the right, where library cards and document text are displayed, and a
   Footer on the bottom with a series of links which lead either to
   overview content or to pre-configured queries.

   To find a document using the Table of Contents:
   Just scroll to the document type you are looking for, expand by
   clicking on the plus sign, scroll to find the title of the document you
   are looking for, and click on it. The library card for the document
   will be displayed in the Document Window. You can re-size the Table of
   Contents Window to make reading document titles easier. If you need
   help downloading, viewing, or creating an HTML link to a document in
   the Library, click on the View/Download/Link Help" link on each card.
   PLEASE NOTE: For the most part, documents in the Table of Contents are
   listed in the order in which they were entered into the Library --
   newest documents at the top of each category.

   Using the links at the bottom of the page: The links at the bottom of
   the page provide shortcuts to particular sets of information -- product
   information, industry information, and Partner Program Guides. Some
   shortcuts may take you to an introductory page first, others may simply
   perform a pre-configured query on the Infobase contents.

   Using the Search View:
   To switch to the Search View, click on the "Search" tab at the bottom
   of the Table of Contents Window. Now the Table of Contents is replaced
   with a Hit List Window, and a Query Template is displayed in the
   Document
