http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/facilities.html

   Technology Transfer Program Technology Transfer Program
   Who we are Patents & Licenses Other Links Site Map
   Facilities Commercialization
   The Marshall Technology Transfer Department works to create
   partnerships through which educational and commercial partners may use
   Marshall facilities for a fee. Our world-class facilities include both
   innovative processes developed at Marshall and a vast range of
   cutting-edge technologies that may be hard to find or too costly for
   manufacturers to maintain in-house.

                    The Productivity Enhancement Complex

   With more than 40 research cells, the PEC can accommodate a variety of
   activities such as creating or modifying computer programs for
   industrial robots used in welding processes, manufacturing space-age
   composite materials, vacuum plasma spray techniques, rapid prototyping,
   and cryogenic insulation development.

                           Dynamic Test Facilities

   To support NASA's space missions, Marshall has developed extensive
   expertise and facilities to ensure the structural integrity of its
   spacecraft and to understand the aerodynamic and aerothermal forces
   involved in launch, flight, and reentry. These capabilities offer
   extensive benefits to manufacturers of automobiles, aircraft, bridges,
   buildings, marine craft, and transportation equipment.
   http://www.sdl.msfc.nasa.gov

                         Space Optics Manufacturing
                              Technology Center

   SOMTC performs research and technology development in space optics
   manufacturing, metrology, and testing. The center provides technical
   support to projects involved in the development and/or application of
   this technology.

                              Hot Gas Facility

   The Marshall Hot Gas Facility is a nominal Mach 4 aerothermal wind
   tunnel that burns a lean mixture of air and gaseous hydrogen. The HGF
   is capable of providing combined radiant and convective heating. Test
   specimen substrate cooling to cryogenic conditions can be provided.
   Infrared data is available upon request.

                         Environmental Test Facility

   The Environmental Test Facility Team provides simulated environments
   for development, qualification, acceptance and research testing of
   space flight hardware. The facility provides the capability for thermal
   vacuum, vacuum bakeout, optical cleanliness bakeout, thermal humidity
   and thermal altitude environmental testing. The facility has 13 vacuum
   chambers, 6 thermal humidity chambers, 3 thermal altitude chambers, and
   2 clean rooms.

   Home

   Search
   Marshall Capabilities
   Partnerships
   Innovator's Corner
   Business Opportunities
   Working with Marshall
   Small Business Programs
   Technology Spotlight
   In-house Programs
   Technology Opportunities
   Facilities Commercialization
   Software Opportunities
   Publications
   Success Stories
   Patents/Licenses
   Other Links
   Site Map
