http://www.bisnis.doc.gov/bisnis/isa/010315pwrgensources.htm

   SELECTED INTERNET INFORMATION SOURCES FOR CONVENTIONAL, ALTERNATIVE AND
   RENEWABLE ENERGY


   January 2002


   Judith Robinson, BISNIS


   The Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy
   has a very good site at www.eia.doe.gov.    The first page permits a
   search by fuel type; there are titles for both renewables and
   alternative energy as well as conventional electrical power.

   Here are additional sources:
   1. Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Network  -   Part of the US
   Department of Energy, this office provides links and access to
   documents concerning energy efficiency and renewable energy.
   www.eren.doe.gov

   2.Power Online - Products, news, and resources for professionals in the
   global power generation industry. www.poweronline.com
   3. Power Engineering Online Magazine - Latest industry news,
   developments, products for power generation, transmission, IPPs,
   deregulation and control systems. www.power-engineering.org
   4. Electric Power Research Institute - Research consortium for the
   improvment of electric power generation and delivery. Includes journal,
   newsletter and reports. www.epri.com
   5. Electric Power Generation, Transmission, and Distribution. -
   1910.269
   OSHA Regulations (Standards - 29 CFR) Subject: Electric Power
   Generation, Transmission, and Distribution. - 1910.269 www.osha-slc.gov
   6. Power Generation Page - Analysis of Power Generation Fuel Cycle to
   Optimize CO2 Recovery Problem/Opportunity Technologies for capturing,
   using, and disposing of carbon dioxide (CO2) need to be considered as
   part of an overall strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,
   www.es.anl.gov
   7.  Edison Electric Institute – EEI – Association of the power
   generation and transmission industry, www.eei.org
   8. Photovoltaic Power Generation - IEC Home Purpose PV Power Generation
   Status of Thin Film Solar Cell Technology Objectives of IEC Research
   Education at IEC Graduate Student Applications Collaborations and
   Cooperative Ventures IEC Personnel Publications Online Journals News &
   Info www.udel.edu
   10.  National Renewable Energy Lab  -   Offers research and technology
   notes, news and events, data, documents, and opportunities.
   www.nrel.gov
   11. Midwest Renewable Energy Association - Learn more about this
   nonprofit organization which acts as a network for communities and
   businesses to advocate for renewable energy resources.
   www.the-mrea.org
   12. Oak Ridge National Laboratory Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy
   Program -
   The ORNL Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Program conducts
   research and development on energy-efficient technologies for
   transportation, industry, buildings, and power; and renewable energy
   production, storage, and utilization.
   www.ornl.gov
   13. California's Renewable Energy Program
   This page is the main page for the Energy Commission's Renewable Energy
   Program.
   www.energy.ca.gov
   14. The Source for Renewable Energy -   The Source for Renewable Energy
   is a comprehensive buyers guide and business directory to more than
   5000 renewable energy businesses worldwide.
   www.sourceguides.com
   15. Sandia National Laboratories - Renewable Energy Technologies -
   Research and Development Capabilities Business, Science and Technology
   Index Facilities for Hire Renewable Energy Technologies The purpose of
   the Renewable Energy Technologies Division at Sandia National
   Laboratory is to develop commercially viable
   www.sandia.gov
   16. SolarAccess.com - Access the Future of Energy...Now!
   Access to solar energy and renewable energy news and information, jobs,
   events, business & product marketplace, education, classified ads, and
   more...
   www.solaraccess.com
   17. International Solar Energy Society - Provides an overview of the
   ISES and its activities, plus products, services, conferences, industry
   journals, current projects, and links.
   www.ises.org
   18. Renewable Energy- Sustainable Development
   SOLAR AND RENEWABLE ENERGY COMPANIES AND PRODUCTS NATIONWIDE SEARCHABLE
   ECO DATABASE Solar Energy Equipment Outlets, Environmental
   Conservation/Ecological Organizations, Environmental & Ecological
   Services, State-City-County Conservation.
   www.ecomall.com
   19. Renewable Energy World from James & James - renewables, sustainable
   energy, energy from sustainable sources, energy from Renewable Energy
   World - the award-winning international magazine from James & James -
   is published bimonthly. In this on-line version there are full text
   versions of selected articles, news, abstracts, archive articles and
   news.
   www.jxj.com
   20. Renewable Energy Advocates -  Renewable Energy Advocates: Common
   Purpose Is A Non-Profit 501-3-C Energy Environmental Organization
   focusing on promoting solutions to environmental problems through
   Renewable Energy like biomass, wind, solar, geothermal technology by
   providing factual information.
   www.serve.com
   21. Renewable Energy Research Laboratory
   The Renewable Energy Research Lab (RERL) exists to promote education
   and research in wind and solar energy conversion technologies.
   www.ecs.umass.edu
   22. Welcome to CEERT
   Coalition of leading environmental and public interest groups and
   innovative technology companies working to develop clean, renewable
   energy resources.
   www.ceert.org
   23. Green Energy News - Covering clean, efficient and renewable energy
   Recent business and technology developments in clean, efficient and
   renewable energy for transportation, industry, government and home.
   www.nrglink.com

   This report is provided courtesy of the Business Information Service
   for the Newly Independent States (BISNIS)

   [home.gif]
