http://www.sfwmd.gov/misce/1_disclaim.html

   sfwmd.gov

   [dotclear.gif]
   [1aphoto3.jpg] [dotclear.gif]
   Disclaimer Graphic
   [dotclear.gif]
   By accessing information, data and materials contained in the South
   Florida Water Management District World Wide Web pages, you hereby
   agree to accept the following terms and conditions:

   [blt1grn.gif] The South Florida Water Management District (hereinafter
   referred to as the "DISTRICT") shall not be held liable for improper or
   incorrect use of the data, information, apparatus, products, processes
   or materials described and/or contained herein. These data,
   information, apparatus, products, processes, materials and related
   graphics are not legal documents and are not intended to be used as
   such.

   [blt1grn.gif] The user hereby recognizes that the information, data,
   apparatus, products, processes and materials are dynamic and may change
   over time without notice. However, the DISTRICT makes no commitment to
   update the information, data, apparatus, products, processes or
   materials contained herein.

   [blt1grn.gif] The user recognizes and acknowledges that the information
   contained in the DISTRICT'S World Wide Web Pages was developed by the
   DISTRICT for a specific purpose or is used by the DISTRICT in a
   specific manner, and this information may be inaccurate or unreliable
   if used for other purposes. The DISTRICT is not responsible for your
   use or reliance upon this information.

   [blt1grn.gif] All information, including but not limited to data,
   software, apparatus, products, processes and materials contained herein
   is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, and the DISTRICT
   expressly disclaims all express and implied warranties, including but
   not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness
   for a particular purpose, and non-infringement of proprietary rights.
   The DISTRICT does not warrant, guarantee, or make any representations
   regarding the use, or the results of the use, of the information
   provided to you by the DISTRICT in terms of correctness, accuracy,
   reliability, completeness, usefulness, timeliness or otherwise. The
   entire risk as to the results and performance of any information
   obtained from the DISTRICT is entirely assumed by the recipient. Any
   person who uses any information available from the DISTRICT disclaims
   all liability for damages, costs and expenses and AGREES THAT THERE ARE
   NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF
   WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT,
   CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE
   OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   [blt1grn.gif] Due to the possibility of unauthorized access to the
   data, transmission errors or changes made since the last update to the
   web site, the information should not be deemed reliable for legal
   purposes. It is strongly recommended that these data and materials be
   acquired directly from the DISTRICT server and not through other
   sources which may have changed the data in some way. Although these
   data have been processed successfully on a computer system at the
   DISTRICT, no warranty expressed or implied is made regarding the
   utility of the data on another system or for general or scientific
   purposes, nor shall the act of distribution constitute any such
   warranty. This disclaimer applies both to individual use of the data
   and aggregate use with other data.

   [blt1grn.gif] Information, data, apparatus, products, processes or
   materials accessible via the DISTRICT'S world wide web pages may
   contain live references (hyperlinks) to information, data, apparatus,
   products, processes or materials held on networked information servers
   beyond the DISTRICT'S world wide web pages and some of the information
   may be copyrighted with restrictions on reuse. The DISTRICT has no
   control over, and is not responsible for, the contents of any off-site
   material referenced from hypertext documents accessible via the
   DISTRICT'S world wide web pages. The DISTRICT cannot control and makes
   no warranty, or guarantee, or promise, express or implied, that the
   information, data, apparatus, product, process or material accessible
   via the hyperlinks contained on the DISTRICT'S world wide web pages is
   either relevant, accurate, complete, up to date, or fit for any use
   whatsoever, nor represents or implies that its use will not infringe
   privately held rights. Links to external servers (other than the
   DISTRICT server) do not imply any official DISTRICT endorsement of the
   opinions or ideas expressed therein, or guarantee the validity or
   importance of the information provided. Furthermore, any person who
   accesses information, data, apparatus, products, processes or materials
   via hyperlink text contained on the DISTRICT'S world wide web pages
   disclaims all liability for damages, costs and expenses, and agrees
   that there are no remedies for negligence, or under strict liability,
   or for breach of warranty or contract, including but not limited to
   indirect, consequential, punitive or incidental damages, even if notice
   was given of the possibility of such damages.

   Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process or
   service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not
   necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or
   favoring by the DISTRICT. The views and opinions of authors expressed
   herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the DISTRICT and
   shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

   Use of any information obtained from such addresses is voluntary and
   reliance on it should only be undertaken after an independent review of
   its accuracy, reliability, completeness, usefulness and timeliness.
   Such independent review is solely the responsibility of those accessing
   the DISTRICT'S world wide web site.

   sfwmd level 1 footer

   [dotclear.gif]
   Use of information herein constitutes acceptance of our disclaimer.

   Who to Contact || Site Map || Search || Webmaster || Site Design ||
   Issues in Review || Special Features || Home (text version) || E-Mail
