http://www.rehab.cahwnet.gov/exec/fairhear.htm


   California - The Golden State    California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                         Page


     DEPARTMENT OF REHABILITATION Employment, Independence & Equality d

                         Appeals Board Fair Hearings

                             Gold Horizontal Bar
   If you are unhappy at any time, with a decision DOR has made about your
       case, you can request a fair hearing. This is your opportunity to
       present your case to the Rehabilitation Appeals Board. However, it
       may be to your benefit to work through the Administrative Review or
       Mediation first before coming to the Appeals Board. Many problems
       can be resolved informally and more quickly.
       A copy of the California Code of Regulations, Title 9 for the
       Department of Rehabilitation is available at ccr.oal.ca.gov/.
       Select "California Code of Regulations" in the upper right corner.
       The following information walks you through the fair hearing
       process.
       Once the Appeals Board receives your request for a fair hearing,
       you will get a response within two weeks indicating if your appeal
       has been accepted. If it has, a hearing will be scheduled within 45
       days unless you agree to a delay.
       If your request has been turned down, you will receive information
       as to why it was denied and what your options may be.
       Hearing Instructions
       When you receive notification that your case has been accepted, you
       will get a hearing confirmation form that provides detailed
       instructions. The following is a summary of those instructions and
       only serves as a guide. Refer to the actual form for specifics.
       The hearing confirmation form must be filled out, have all exhibits
       attached and returned to the Appeals Board at least seven days
       prior to your hearing.
          + You have the option of appearing in person, sending a
            representative or presenting only written information.
          + You can bring witnesses
          + You will need to prepare a detail written summary of the
            action taken by DOR which you are appealing. Explain why you
            believe the action was incorrect and advise the board what
            corrective action you are seeking. Copies of any evidence
            which supports your position need to be included with the
            confirmation form.
       You have the right to review your case record prior to the hearing.
       Contact your local DOR office to request the review.
       You will need to forward a copy of the materials requested in the
       form at least seven days prior to your hearing. If the information
       is not returned or you do not appear at your scheduled hearing,
       your hearing will be taken off the calendar and your appeal may be
       dismissed.
       The Board is composed of seven members who are appointed by the
       Governor. At the hearing, you have the right to present information
       to the Board explaining why you feel DOR should change a decision
       it has made. The Department is also allowed to provide information
       to the Board. After the hearing, a written, final decision will be
       made by the Board.
       If you are not satisfied with the decision at the Fair Hearing, you
       have the right to file a petition, within six months, with the
       California Superior Court to review the matter
       Fair Hearing Forms are available for downloading and printing (see
       below) on this Web site or you can request them from local DOR
       staff
       Please note, forms must be filled out, signed and mailed to the
       following address. Because a signature is required, forms delivered
       electronically are not accepted at this time.
       All forms should be mailed to:
       Rehabilitation Appeals Board
       Department of Rehabilitation
       P.O. Box 944222
       Sacramento, CA 94244-2220
       (916) 263-8979 (916) 263-7477 TTY
       Fair Hearing Form


                                Gold Horizontal Bar


    DOR Home / Services / ADA / DOR Employment / Consumer Assistance /
   Independent Living
   About DOR / Grants / Service Providers / Employment Resources / FYI

      Comment Form / Table of Contents / Conditions of Use / Privacy Policy /
                                 E-mail Webmaster
                         Website Last Updated January 2002
