http://fecweb1.fec.gov/pages/infosvc.htm


1-800 Line

   Telephone

   The Federal Election Commission's toll-free information line is central
   to the agency's outreach and assistance program. Individuals throughout
   the country can speak anonymously with staff in the Information
   Division, who provide information on the law and its requirements.
   Public Affairs Specialists answer thousands of questions each year from
   political committees, candidates and members of the public, often
   providing research assistance as well. If you have a question about the
   law, or would like to request any FEC publications or forms, call
   1-800-424-9530, and press 1, then 3, or call 202/694-1100.


Publications

   Stack of Books

   The Federal Election Commission produces a number of free publications
   to help committees, the press and the general public understand the law
   and find information about campaign finance. Many of these publications
   are available on the Campaign Finance Law Resources page of this Web
   site, and others appear on the About the FEC page. Nearly all of these
   publications are available in print from the FEC. To order, call
   1-800-424-9530, and press 1, then 3, or call 202/694-1100.



Conferences

   Person making presentation

   Each year, the Federal Election Commission (FEC) sponsors regional
   conferences where Commissioners and staff conduct a variety of
   technical workshops on the law. Discussion topics often include
   fundraising, reporting and communications. Workshops are designed for
   those seeking an introduction to the basic provisions of the law as
   well as for those more experienced in campaign finance law. As part of
   the FEC's State Outreach Program, Public Affairs Specialists also
   conduct informal meetings in different cities across the country to
   brief PACs, party committees and candidate committees on areas of the
   law specific to their needs.

                          2002 Conference Schedule

   Program Information Date Location Registration
   Regional Conference for Corporate/Labor/Member/Trade PACs, Candidates
   and Parties

   Download Conference Information (PDF)
   February 5 - 7, 2002 Grand Hyatt
   San Francisco, CA
     * Register online
     * By mail or fax (PDF)

   Conference for Candidates and Party Committees

   Download Conference Information (PDF)
   March 25 - 26, 2002 Loews L'Enfant Plaza
   Washington, DC
     * Register online
     * By mail or fax (PDF)

   Conference for Corporations and their PACs April 22 - 24, 2002 Loews
   L'Enfant Plaza
   Washington, DC Details coming soon!
   Conference for Trade Associations and their PACs May 22 - 24, 2002
   Loews L'Enfant Plaza
   Washington, DC Details coming soon!
   Conference for Membership and Labor Organizations and their PACs June
   26 - 28, 2002 Loews L'Enfant Plaza
   Washington, DC Details coming soon!

   Note: To view and print PDF documents, you'll need to download a copy
   of the free Adobe Acrobat Reader software at www.adobe.com.

Roundtables

   People sitting around a table

   The FEC conducts roundtable sessions for the regulated community. The
   roundtables, limited to 12 participants per session, will focus on a
   range of topics from PAC fundraising fundamentals to using the internet
   to raise funds. See the chart below.

   Candidates, congressional staffers, lawyers, accountants, consultants
   and political committee staff are invited to register for the
   discussions, which will be held from 9:30 to 11 a.m. at the FEC, 999 E
   Street, NW, Washington, DC. FEC staff will facilitate the sessions.

   Registration is $25 and payments will be accepted on a first-come,
   first-served basis, up to the day before a roundtable takes place.
   Pre-payment is required. Organizations that have accounts set up with
   the FEC's Public Records Office may charge the fee to their accounts.

   Download the registration form, then mail or fax it to the FEC to sign
   up for a session. (The form is also available from Faxline, the FEC's
   automated fax system. Call 202/501-3413 and request document 590.) The
   FEC will maintain a waiting list in the event there are cancellations.
   Please call the FEC prior to registration to ensure there is space in
   the session you wish to attend.

   Any cancellation must be received in writing or by fax at least two
   days before the discussion. The FEC will not refund registration fees
   to individuals who cancel after that period or who fail to show up for
   a roundtable session.

   For more information about the roundtable sessions, call the FEC's
   Information Division at 800/424-9530 (press 1, then 3) or 202/694-1100.

Upcoming Roundtables

 Date

                                     Subject

                                                                  Intended Audience

        Watch this space for information on future rountables.


Office Visits

   Two people reviewing documents

   Public Affairs Specialists are available to meet in person with anyone
   who might have a question about the law and its requirements. If you
   are in the Washington, D.C. area and would like to speak with a
   specialist, you may visit the agency's Information Division. To
   schedule an appointment with a specialist, call 1-800-424-9530, and
   press 1, then 3, or call 202/694-1100.



E-Mail

   Mailbox

   Public Affairs Specialists are available to respond to your questions
   about the Federal Election Campaign Act and its requirements through
   e-mail.  Simply submit your inquiry to info@fec.gov, and a specialist
   will research your questions and respond within ten business days.
