http://newsdesk.inel.gov/contextnews.cfm?ID=278

   [ineelHeaderLogo.jpg]   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
                           Laboratory
                           INEEL Home (http://www.inel.gov)
                           INEEL Newsdesk Home (http://newsdesk.inel.gov)
                           Back

   DOE News Release
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   January 21, 2002

   NEWS MEDIA CONTACTS:
   Kathy Gatens, 208-526-1058 kzc@inel.gov

   INEEL hires former brigadier general for national security job

   Former Brig. Gen. Bob Summers has been appointed Director of Defense &
   Infrastructure Systems, within U.S. Department of Energy's Idaho
   National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory National Security
   Division.
   Summers transitioned from the U.S. Air Force in 2000. His service
   included numerous assignments involving space and missile operations,
   teaching physics at the U.S. Air Force Academy, and leadership of
   several programs involved with the repair and maintenance of aircraft
   and space systems.
   His most recent assignment was with the Defense Threat Reduction
   Agency, where he was the director for Combat Support. In this role, he
   directed analytical and operations support to our nation's senior
   military commanders with an emphasis on nuclear, chemical and
   biological threats.
   "I was very impressed with the caliber of people I met during my first
   visits to the INEEL," said Summers. "Some places get a lot of
   publicity. Here, people are quietly competent. Today, we are faced with
   a whole new set of issues along with the old problems. With the
   talented people here, we will find solutions to these new challenges."
   "Bob Summers has earned a reputation as a problem solver," said Laurin
   Dodd, Associate Laboratory Director for INEEL's National Security
   Division. "I expect him to play a key leadership role in enhancing
   INEEL's contributions to our national security mission."
   This is not Summers' first relocation to the West. He lived in the
   Rocky Mountain region on five previous assignments, including several
   in Montana and Wyoming. Avid skiers, Summers and his wife, Kathy, are
   looking forward to living in Idaho Falls.
   Summers earned his bachelor of science degree in mathematics from the
   U.S. Air Force Academy and his master of science degree in physics from
   the Air Force Institute of Technology.
   The INEEL is a science-based, applied engineering national laboratory
   dedicated to supporting the U.S. Department of Energy's missions in
   environment, energy, science and national security. The INEEL is
   operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho LLC.
   -INEEL-
   02-009

   [ineelHeaderLogo.jpg]   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
                           Laboratory
                           INEEL Home (http://www.inel.gov)
                           INEEL Newsdesk Home (http://newsdesk.inel.gov)
                           Back
