http://wincomm.grc.nasa.gov/news/index.shtml

   [Top01.gif]
   WINCOMM: Weather Information Communications NASA Glenn Research Center,
   Project Manager: Konstantinos Martzaklis [whtbox.gif]
   [Top03.gif] Aviation Safety Program Glenn Research Center NASA
   [whtbox.gif]

                                         About News and Events Related Links


   News and Events




     Image of AirVenture 2001 poster EAA Airventure Oshkosh 2001

       The WINCOMM team joined forces with AWIN again this year at the NASA
       General Aviation building to promote NASA's involvement with weather
       information in the cockpit. Read details here.

     Second Annual NASA Aviation Safety Program Weather Accident Prevention
     Review

       WINCOMM members attended the 2nd Annual AvSP WxAP Review, June 5 to
       7, 2001 in Cleveland, Ohio. The review presented NASA plans and
       accomplishments that impact the national aviation safety goal. The
       following link provides addition information for the 2001 review.
       http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/grcavsp/WxAP2001/

     Workshop on Integrated CNS Technologies for Advanced Future Air
     Transportation Systems

       Hosted by the Space Communications Program at NASA Glenn Research
       Center
       May 1st - May 3rd, 2001
       Wyndham Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio
       http://spacecom.grc.nasa.gov/cnsworkshop

       This workshop assembles government, industry and academic
       communities performing research and technology development for
       advanced digital communications systems and associated applications
       supporting the national and global air transportation systems.

       The workshop is held to:
       * Help understand current efforts in near and far term R&D and
         demonstration of digital communications technologies and
         applications for air transportation;
       * Identify R&D requirements that must be filled in order to enable
         the future vision for a safe, high capacity advanced air
         transportation system.
       * Develop a "road map" and an advocacy function for developing and
         funding the necessary R&D programs to achieve the future vision for
         national and global air transportation.

       The workshop also provides a forum for fostering collaboration and
       coordination of currently funded R&D and technology demonstration
       and evaluation efforts, and help to develop an understanding of the
       expected demands of future advanced aeronautical subsystems on the
       digital communications infrastructures.

     [airventure00-logo.jpg] EAA Airventure Oshkosh 2000

       Taking place at Wittman Regional Airport in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, EAA
       Airventure Oshkosh 2000 is the worlds largest recreational aviation
       event. This week-long celebration of aviation history, achievement
       and learning features airshows, exhibits and workshops. Read about
       WINCOMM's participation at the event.

     First Annual NASA Aviation Safety Program Weather Accident Prevention
     Review

       [avsp-logo.jpg] The WINCOMM team took part in the first annual
       Weather Accident Prevention Annual Project Review in Hampton,
       Virginia, on May 23-35, 2000. The first Aviation Safety Program
       (AvSP) Weather Accident Prevention (WxAP) Annual Project Review
       presented the NASA and industry technical plans and accomplishments
       to the aviation community. NASA is developing technologies to
       support an Aviation Weather Information System with associated
       enhanced weather products and communications links, Electronic Pilot
       Reporting technologies, forward-looking turbulence sensors, and
       turbulence mitigation and control systems. It was the intent of the
       meeting to obtain feedback and insight from the aviation community
       of diverse backgrounds to assist NASA in steering its plans in the
       direction needed to meet the national safety goal of 80% reduction
       of aircraft accidents by 2007.




                     [ Home • About • News & Events • Links ]


   Responsible NASA Official: Bernice Beznoska,
   Bernice.A.Beznoska@grc.nasa.gov
   NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio
   NASA Privacy Statement
   Site designed by Zin Technologies
   Site Curator: Joe Banks, joe.banks@zin-tech.com
