http://www.dcb.uscourts.gov/pdf_files/Internship.pdf

   Clerk's Office Internship Program www.dcb.uscourts Clerk's Office In an
   effort to give back to the community, the United States Clerk's Office
   offers two to four month, unpaid Bankruptcy Court internships for
   undergraduate and graduate stu- dents seeking experience in court
   administration, public administration, public policy, government, .
   District of and other related fields. Columbia The Clerk of Court
   continuously seeks opportu- nities to improve efficiency and
   effectiveness in the customer service provided to the bench, bar,
   trustees, and public. Our goal to improve effi- Clerk's Office ciency
   lends itself well to students interested in "reinventing government."
   The internship offers a diversity in tasking, which is likely to
   include case administration, courtroom operations, statistical
   analysis, cus- tomer service, and other special projects. Internship
   Program E. Barrett Prettyman United States Courthouse Internship
   Coordinator United States Bankruptcy Court E. Barrett Prettyman
   Courthouse 333 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D. C. 20001 Phone:
   (202)273-0042 ext. 112 Fax: (202)273-0049 E-mail:
   brenda.esteves@dcb.uscourts.gov Web site: www.dcb.uscourts.gov College
   Internship Program Responsibilities of I N T E R N S H I P Internship
   the Clerk's Office B E N E F I T S Application v Small staff size
   allows interns to gain experience in multiple areas of court v Provide
   exceptional customer administration Please provide a Statement of In-
   service to the court, attorneys, v One-building circuit provides oppor-
   terest explaining why you are in- trustees, and the public tunities to
   interact with district and terested in this internship, what v Process
   bankruptcy case appellate courts and probation office you hope to gain,
   and what you documents from initiation v Opportunity to observe trials
   and feel you could contribute to our through closing hearings
   organization. v Develop, maintain, and moni- v Hands-on experience in
   federal Include: tor Court's budget court operations - Name v Provide
   for and maintain the v Flexible hours and schedule - Address Court's
   information technol- - Phone number ogy requirements - School, class
   year, GPA v Manage bankruptcy procure- I N T E R N S H I P - Career
   objectives ment, space, and facilities D E S C R I P T I O N List: v
   Manage human resources - Honors/achievements v Track and monitor
   changes in v Assist with revision development of - Proposed dates and
   hours of federal bankruptcy rules and an appeals manual and precedent
   file internship procedures v Research and develop new policy - Previous
   work experience and v Manage and maintain case- unpaid, relevant
   experience v Participate in planning and policy flow and court calendar
   meetings - References v Prepare and analyze statistical v Provide
   reports and analyses reports Mail or e-mail application materi- v
   Provide customer service to attor- v Participate in strategic plan- als
   to address on opposite page. neys, trustees, and public ning
