http://www.sao.noaa.gov/nexrad/nexrad.html

                      Systems Acquisition Office Header
                                  Blue Line

   NEXRAD Tower

                Next Generation Weather Radar
                (NEXRAD)
                Acquisition

                                  Blue Line

   The Next Generation Weather Radar (NEXRAD) Program was created by the
   Department of Defense, the Department of Transportation, and the
   Department of Commerce to develop and implement a network of advanced
   weather surveillance radars both nationwide and at various locations
   overseas. The acquisition of these tri-Departmental radars is managed
   by the NEXRAD Joint System Program Office, which is part of National
   Oceanic and Atmispheric Administration's (NOAA) Systems Acquisition
   Office.

   NEXRAD is a state-of-the-art, automated signal processing, pulse
   Doppler weather radar system. The NEXRAD Weather Surveillance Radar 88D
   (WSR-88D) provides its principal users--the National Weather Service,
   the Air Weather Service, the Naval Meteorology and Oceanography
   Command, and the Federal Aviation Administration--with a wide array of
   automated weather information that increases their ability to meet
   their respective operational requirements including early warnings of
   hazardous weather; flash flood predictions; general weather forecasts;
   ensuring flight safety; water resources management; protection of
   resources on military installations worldwide; and informative military
   operations for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, and U.S. Navy. NEXRAD,
   with its proven Doppler technology and data processing subsystems, will
   enhance the services that its principal users provide to the general
   public, aviation, agriculture, forestry, water resources management,
   and other industries well into the twenty-first century.

   The first operational WSR-88D was installed in May 1990 in Twin Lakes,
   Oklahoma. The remaining 161 units have also been installed in their
   respective locations.  Click here to view CAD files of maps showing the
   distribution of the NEXRADs throughout the 50 states.  The files are
   enclosed in a WinZip self-extracting file.

                                  Blue Line

    Point of Contact   |  Acquisition and Staff Offices  |  DOC and NOAA
                                  Resources

         Disclaimer
         Updated March 31, 2000

                                SAO Webmaster
                                http://www.sao.noaa.gov/nexrad.html
