http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/researcharea/index.html

   Polymer division banner


   Characterization and Measurement

   The Characterization and Measurement Group provides standards,
   reference data, and measurements needed by industry, government
   agencies, and the scientific and technical communities for synthesis,
   processing and use of polymeric materials. Activities include
   developing new measurement techniques, data analysis algorithms, and
   theoretical models to support polymer materials characterization,
   quality control, process development, and performance. The group works
   closely with the other groups in the Polymers Division by providing
   technical support for ongoing programs throughout the
   division...........
   More information on Characterization Measurement group

   Electronic Materials

   Today's U.S. microelectronics and supporting infrastructure industries
   are in fierce international competition to design and produce new
   smaller, lighter, faster, more functional, and more reliable
   electronics products more quickly and economically than ever
   before.....
   More information on electronic Materials group

   Biomaterials

   The Biomaterials Group provides basic materials science, engineering,
   test methods, and standards to sectors of the health care industry for
   the development of new or improved materials and delivery systems. The
   work of the group focuses on (1) evaluation of synthetic materials
   (biomaterials) used to replace or restore function to a body tissue and
   (2) development of improved dental restorative materials with greater
   durability, wear resistance and clinical acceptability......
   More information on Biomaterials group

   Multiphase Materials

   The Multiphase Materials Group develops realistic measurement and
   characterization platforms for multiphase polymeric materials that use
   a combination of experimental measurements and theoretical and computer
   (T/M) modeling tools to provide realistic and highly optimized output.
   All these measurement and characterization tools and platforms are
   intended to help industries in pre-production evaluation, materials
   characterization, performance prediction, as well as provide data for
   process design......
   More information on Multiphase Materials group

   Processing Characterization

   Our research seeks to advance the understanding and control of
   polymeric materials under flow through the use and development of
   advanced measurement technology. The motivation behind our effort is
   two-fold:.....
   More information on Processing Characterization group

   Multivariant Measurement Methods

   New, more complex materials are increasingly in demand for applications
   in areas such as biotechnology, microelectronics and nanotechnology.
   The use of combinatorial methods -- which comprise a special set of
   tools and techniques -- enables scientists to rapidly explore a wide
   range of material characteristics in parallel and on a miniaturized
   scale. The Combinatorial Methods Program at NIST was initiated to
   develop this methodology to learn more about materials and their
   structure, properties and processing, data that can help manufacturers
   accelerate the development of new materials. The Multivariant
   Measurement Methods group is developing this methodology to learn more
   about polymeric materials and their structure, properties and
   processing, data that can help manufacturers accelerate the development
   of new materials for the U.S. polymer industry.
   More information on Multivariant Measurement Methods group




   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division


   Research Area
   bullet Characterization & Measurement

   bullet Electronic Materials
   bullet Biomaterials
   bullet Multiphase Materials
   bullet Processing Characterization
   bullet Multivariant Measurement Methods




          macromolecules grapic
