http://www.nist.gov/oiaa/postdoc.htm

   Colorful OIAA Office Banner

              NIST Postdoctoral Research Associateships Program

                                   PURPOSE
     The NIST/NRC Postdoctoral Research Associateships Program provides
       two-year temporary appointments for outstanding scientists and
     engineers chosen through a national competition administered by the
    National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences. These
    appointments provide an opportunity for the Nation's best scientists,
   mathematicians and engineers to engage in state-of-the-art research in
   association with senior research specialists of the Institute's staff,
      using the excellent and often unique research facilities at NIST.

                     Postdoctoral Research Program Flyer

   Frequently Asked Questions

   Q: Who is eligible to become an Associate?
   A: U.S. citizenship is required for these appointments.

     Research Associates at NIST are awarded only to persons who have
     held the doctorate less than five years at the time of application.

     The Defense Authorization Act of 1986, Section 1622, prohibits any
     male born after December 31, 1959, from being appointed to a
     position in an executive agency if he is required to register with
     the Selective Service System but has knowingly and willfully not
     registered.

   Q: What type of an appointment does the Associate have?
   A: A postdoctoral research associate is given a two-year term
   appointment and considered to be an employee of the U.S. Government.

   Q: What is the salary and what benefits are associated with the
   appointment?
   A: For the 2002 program year, the annual base salary for a NIST
   Associate is $53,200. The base salary is subject to federal and state
   income taxes and Social Security deductions.

     Sick leave and annual leave are accrued at the rate of 13 days per
     year, and retirement, health, and life insurance benefits are
     included. Costs of relocation and transportation of household
     effects within the United States to the duty station only, within
     allowances prescribed by law, will be paid.

     The sponsoring division for each NIST Associate is provided an
     annual allocation of $5,500 that is earmarked to help support
     professional travel, scientific books, incidental research
     equipment, and other appropriate expenses relating to the research
     and professional activity of an Associate.

   Procedure/Process

   The Postdoctoral Research Associateships Program is administered
   jointly by NIST and the National Research Council. The application
   deadline is January 15th of each year. Approximately 40 new awards are
   made annually.

   For further information or a copy of the Research Opportunities Booklet
   or application material, please contact Ms. Janice H. Campbell,
   Secretary, at 301-975-3076 or Dr. Jack J. Hsia, Chief of Academic
   Affairs, at 301-975-3067.

   Detailed information on procedures and all necessary application
   materials and supporting documents are available from:

   National Research Council
   Research Associateship Programs - TJ2114
   2101 Constitution Avenue, NW
   Washington, DC 20418
   Telephone: 202-334-2760
   E-Mail: rap@nas.edu
   http://www.national-academies.org/rap

   Additional Resources
     * Introduction to the Program
     * Administration Manual Subchapter 10.22 on Postdoctoral Research
       Associates
     * NIST/NRC Postdoctoral Research Opportunities Booklet
     * National Research Council or contact NRC via e-mail address:
       rap@nas.edu
     * NRC Program Form

   2001 Booklets

   Copies of the 2001 Postdoctoral Research Associateship Program Books
   may be obtained from the NIST Laboratory Office/Division Offices or
   from the Office of International and Academic Affairs. For a copy of
   the 2001 book or for application material, please contact Ms. Janice H.
   Campbell.

   [left blue arrow] Return to Academic Affairs Home Page

   [left blue arrow] Return to NIST General Information Home Page

                NIST/NRC Postdoctoral Research Opportunities
   Questions/Comments?
   Updated: Wednesday, Jaunary 2, 2002

                                                          [NIST Home Page]
