http://www.mw.nrcs.usda.gov/region/penbox.html



   NRCS Midwest Regional Office [USEMAP:top-menu2.gif]

                                                            February, 2000
                                                               Page 1 of 4

                              [penbox-hdr.jpg]

      The seventeenth in an occasional series of notes, news and other
   information of general interest to supervisors, managers and others who
    deal with the human resource. From the NRCS Midwest Regional Office.

                          NEW IN THE BOX THIS MONTH

     ADDRESSING SEXUAL ORIENTATION DISCRIMINATION IN FEDERAL EMPLOYEMENT

   On May 28, 1998, the President issued Executive Order 13087,
   reaffirming the Executive Branch's internal policy that prohibits
   discrimination based upon sexual orientation within Executive Branch
   civilian employment.  The Executive Orders adds "sexual orientation" to
   the pre-existing categories of prohibited discrimination: race, color,
   religion, sex, national origin, handicap and age.

   The Executive Order states, as a matter of Federal policy, that a
   person's sexual orientation should not be the basis for the denial of a
   job or a promotion.  This is the first time that a prohibition against
   sexual orientation discrimination has appeared in a specific directive
   from the President.

   The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has issued a "Guide to
   Employee's Rights" pertaining to discrimination based on sexual
   orientation.  The purpose of the OPM booklet is to make federal
   employees aware of how to obtain help if they believe that they have
   been discriminated against based upon sexual orientation.  Executive
   Order 13087 states the policy of the Executive Branch, but does not
   create any additional enforcement rights, such as the ability to
   proceed before the EEOC.  The Executive Order does not authorize
   affirmative action programs.  However, there are existing
   administrative and legal remedies available to federal employees who
   believe that they have been discriminated against based on sexual
   orientation.

   Discrimination based on sexual orientation may take the form of a
   prohibited personnel practice.  Employees can seek relief from
   prohibited personnel practices, under certain circumstances, from the
   Merit Systems Protection Board, Office of Special Counsel, and
   administrative grievance procedures.

   For a fuller understanding of the Executive Order and the OPM guidance
   on this subject, and to download the Guide, visit the web site of OPM
   at http://www.opm.gov.



   Got a question for Dr. Penalty?     Write to Dr. Penalty via email:
   bchalmer@mw.nrcs.usda.gov




   Midwest States
   Resource Assessment
   Strategic Plan
   1998 Performance Report
   Employee Relations News
   Directories

                                         [USEMAP:btm-menu1.gif]
   USDA logo

   USDA is an equal opportunity employer.
   Copyright © 1999 NRCS
   Contact: Webmaster
