http://www.hhs.gov/about/bios/aspe.html

                                                   skip navigational links

   HHS bird logo U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
   Search News Agencies Opportunities About Us Related Sites

                             Bobby Piyush Jindal

               Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation
                U.S. Department of Health and Human Services

   Bobby Jindal was sworn-in as the Assistant Secretary for Planning and
   Evaluation for the Department of Health and Human Services on July 9,
   2001.

   The Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation serves as the
   principal policy advisor to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
   Jindals responsibilities include policy formulation and analysis, the
   development and review of regulations and/or legislation, budget
   analysis, strategic planning, as well as the conduct and coordination
   of policy research and program evaluation.

   Prior to joining HHS, Jindal was the University of Louisiana System
   president, one of the largest higher education systems in the nation
   comprised of eight campuses, 80,000 students and 8,000 faculty and
   staff. During his tenure, Jindal was instrumental in raising graduation
   and retention rates, increasing private donations and the number of
   endowed chair positions. Jindal also implemented the states first
   teacher guarantees and faculty rotation programs.

   In 1998, Jindal was named executive director of the National Bipartisan
   Commission on the Future of Medicare, a panel charged with developing a
   plan to reform Medicare. Jindal brought with him expertise as
   Louisianas Department of Health and Hospitals Secretary, a position he
   held from 1996 to 1998. As Secretary, Jindal was responsible for a $4
   billion budget, and managed to eliminate the departments $400 million
   deficit. Jindal began his career as a consultant at McKinsey & Company.

   Jindal was born and raised in Baton Rouge, La. At 20, he graduated
   magna cum laude from Brown University with degrees in biology and
   public policy. Jindal, a Rhodes scholar, received his masters degree in
   politics from Oxford University.

              HHS Home | Topics | What's New | For Kids | FAQs
      Disclaimers | Privacy Notice | FOIA | Accessibility | Site Info |
                                 Contact Us

   Last revised: July 25, 2001
