http://walden.house.gov/press/jan/02/pr_012902.htm

                                                             [press.jpg]

   January 29, 2002
   [Home__________] Go


            Walden Applauds President Bushs State of the Union Address

   Presidents address highlighted war on terrorism, homeland security, and
revitalizing Americas economy

   WASHINGTON, D.C. U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today applauded
   the priorities President George W. Bush laid out in his address to the
   nation on the State of the Union.  Speaking before a joint session of
   the U.S. Congress on Tuesday evening, President Bush reflected on the
   terrorist attacks of September 11^th and the ongoing war on terrorism
   and outlined his legislative priorities for the coming year.

   What we witnessed tonight was the strength of President Bushs
   leadership in confronting the challenges facing our nation: winning the
   war on terrorism, building up our nations homeland security, and
   revitalizing the American economy, said Walden. The Presidents address
   reminded the American people that in the face of adversity, our nations
   true character has been revealed.  And his speech served as a warning
   to our enemies that the American people are united in their
   determination to rid the world of the menace of terrorism and preserve
   the American way of life.

   Addressing the Presidents remarks on the war on terrorism, Walden
   continued, President Bush articulated two overriding objectives in our
   war against terrorism: pursuing and eliminating terrorists around the
   globe and preventing terrorists and terrorist regimes from acquiring
   weapons of mass destruction.  I was pleased the President reiterated
   the fact that we cannot allow ourselves to become complacent after our
   stunning victory in Afghanistan.  As the President said, our war is
   only just beginning.  Tens of thousands of terrorists were trained in
   camps in Afghanistan and elsewhere, and many of them remain at large.
   The detainees I saw last week when I visited the U.S. detention
   facilities at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba represented 25 different countries,
   which illustrates just how widespread terrorism has become, said
   Walden. Im proud that the American people have a commander in chief
   whose eyes are fixed on the tough road that lies ahead and who
   understands the price well all pay if our resolution wavers in the face
   of the enemy.

   Responding to the Presidents outline for bolstering Americas homeland
   security, Walden said, The Presidents plan to increase our homeland
   security defending against bioterrorism, improving emergency response
   capabilities, increasing transportation and border security, and
   expanding Americas intelligence resources is both ambitious and vital.
   Tonight President Bush made a strong commitment to keeping the American
   people safe within our own borders.  And he also pledged to maintain a
   strong military to defend our soil and our interests abroad and to
   provide our men and women in uniform with the best weapons, equipment,
   and training in the world.

   Congressman Walden had high praise for the Presidents remarks on
   combating the current economic recession. This is a president who has
   his finger on the economic pulse of the nation and who understands the
   measures that are needed to improve our nations economic health.
   Unfortunately, the economic woes facing the rest of the nation right
   now have been with the people of central, southern and eastern Oregon
   for the better part of a decade.  Oregons unemployment rate of 7.4
   percent is the highest in the nation making Oregon the Ground Zero of
   the recession.  I was pleased to hear the President renew the call for
   an economic stimulus package in Congress, and Im committed to assisting
   him accomplish that goal.  Continuing, Walden said, I was impressed by
   the scope of the Presidents vision to bring about a stronger, more
   prosperous and more secure nation.  The issues he discussed improving
   public education, promoting tax fairness, expanding international
   trade, and decreasing Americas dependence on foreign oil demonstrate
   how deeply the President understands the priorities of the American
   people.

   With the Presidents focus on security, it was fitting that he devoted
   so much time in his speech to addressing the health and retirement
   security of the American people, said Walden.  Im pleased that even in
   these uncertain times, the President has made a strong commitment to
   strengthening Social Security and Medicare, passing a Patients Bill of
   Rights, improving healthcare for our nations veterans, and providing
   uninsured workers credits to help buy health coverage.  Its critical
   that we do everything we can to make sure that every American whether
   employed, unemployed or retired has access to affordable healthcare.
   And for seniors, that includes a prescription drug benefit to reduce
   the out-of-pocket healthcare costs that hit older Americans especially
   hard.

   Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of
   Oregon, which includes the 20 counties of southern, central and eastern
   Oregon. Rep. Walden is a member of the House Energy and Commerce
   Committee and The House Committee on Resources

                                    # # #
