http://www.nhd.uscourts.gov/oo/oo.asp

  Opinions

   Since 1994 the court has offered an on-line opinion service to the
   public. The database contains over 4,000 opinions dating from 1989, and
   new opinions are added as they are issued. Until required by the
   Judicial Conference of the United States to charge an access fee, we
   will offer this service free of charge.

   We offer three ways to review these opinions.

     Search - ISYS software allows a full-text search of the opinions and
     gives a hypertext display of any "hits" in response to your query.
     When searching for an opinion on this site, a word or phrase, docket
     number, or its file name can be used as well as numerous other
     search parameters. Compound queries are also possible. As your
     request must be specific, we suggest that you consult our Search
     Examples prior to entering your request. For answers to frequently
     asked questions and for advanced assistance, including a glossary of
     terms, please review our Help Index.

     In the displayed results of a search, the following are keys to the
     letters, if any, which follow the file name:
     P an opinion designated for "publication" (see "published" opinions
     below),
     R an opinion containing an interpretation of the Local Rules, and
     U an opinion that was once sealed but has now been unsealed.

     The opinions are available in two formats.
     * The HTML version is single spaced, and all footnotes will appear at
       the end of the document. Because it loads quickly, we recommend
       browsing the search results using the HTML format.
     * The PDF version of an opinion is double spaced and retains the same
       formatting and pagination as the original WordPerfect opinion. It
       is the version used to cite an opinion.

     Subscribe - This option allows you to subscribe to an e-mail service
     that will send opinions to your PC as they are issued. After a
     registration form is completed, which includes your selection of the
     types of opinions you wish to receive, a confirmation notice will be
     sent indicating that your registration has been processed. Your
     subscription can be modified at any time or discontinued.

     While completion of all fields is not required, we ask that you do
     furnish the information so we can utilize an associated database to
     consult with you regarding user satisfaction

     Please note that there are other services offered thru this option;
     they will be described in more detail on the subscribe main page.

     Download - By choosing this option, you may select a group of
     opinions to download to your PC. All opinions are saved to a zip
     file, cumulative by calendar quarter, and bar summaries and
     published opinions are saved to zip files, cumulative by calendar
     year. If you wish to use this option, you should update your
     database periodically as our plans are to delete older files as new
     ones are added.

   "Published" Opinions

   In order to assist publishing companies and similarly situated
   information providers in determining which of the over 4,000 available
   opinions may have precedential value to practitioners, the court has
   used a distinctive suffix in the file name to identify those opinions.
   All files names will appear in a separate column whenever search
   results are displayed.

   If the opinion has been designated for "publication," there will be a P
   at the end of the file name in the second column, e.g., 93PB047P.WPD
   for opinions added prior to 01/01/00 and 00NH00IP.WPD for opinions
   dated after 01/01/00. The file name will be the exclusive source of
   that information.
   5.3 Citation Format (See Local Rule 5.3 Citation Format for Opinions
   Issued by this Court)
   Orders

   This section includes standing court orders that may be of interest to
   the public and members of the bar.
