http://ck10.uscourts.gov/circuit/video.htm

   [erthntwk.gif]

                        INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
                                   FOR THE
              PRESENTATION OF ORAL ARGUMENTS BY VIDEOCONFERENCE

                    ************************************

   In order to reduce the cost of litigation for attorneys and their
   clients, the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
   offers the option of presenting oral arguments by interactive
   videoconference.

   The court may designate a certain number of criminal and prisoner
   appeals on an oral argument calendar for videoconferencing. Although,
   appeals designated by the court for videoconferencing will generally be
   appeals in which both sides are represented by government attorneys or
   private attorneys paid by the government, counsel in any civil or
   criminal appeal arising from a district that is able to support
   videoconferencing may request leave to present oral argument by
   videoconference.

   Interactive videoconference is virtually equivalent to a personal
   appearance before the court; nevertheless, if your case is designated
   for videoconference and you believe there are compelling reasons why
   argument should not be presented by videoconference, you may file a
   motion under Fed.R.App.P. Rule 27.

   If your case is one designated for the presentation of oral argument by
   videoconference, the clerk of the court of appeals will notify you and
   tell you when and where to report for argument. Generally, you will be
   told to report to the district court clerk's office. Reporting times
   will be adjusted to your local time. For example, if court is scheduled
   to convene at the Byron White U.S. Courthouse, Denver, Colorado at 9:00
   a.m. Denver time (10:00 a.m. Central time) and you are arguing by
   videoconference from Oklahoma City, you will be directed to report to
   the district court clerks office no later than 9:30 a.m. local time.
   The district court clerk will direct you to a courtroom or another room
   in the courthouse where there is videoconference equipment.

   When you get to the videoconference site, a court representative will
   greet you, provide further information and answer questions. You will
   see some things which are familiar to you, including a podium with a
   microphone for presenting arguments; however, you will also see a TV
   monitor and video camera some 10 to 15 feet in front of and facing the
   podium. When arguments are being video videoconferenced, attorneys can
   see the panel judges on the monitor and hear them through connected
   speakers. By means of similar equipment installed in the Denver
   courtroom, the panel judges can see and hear the arguing attorneys.

   During your argument, you may detect a fractional second delay between
   the time words are spoken and the time they are heard at the remote
   conference site. This could cause you to continue speaking, thereby
   missing the first word or two of a question posed by a panel judge. The
   court is exploring enhanced technology which will eliminate this
   transmission delay. In the meantime, the problem can be minimized by
   some simple protocols. Judges will preface their questions by a warning
   remark, such as "counsel, I have a question," whereupon you should
   immediately stop speaking and listen for the question. Thus you will
   hear the entire question and be able to formulate your response.

   Here are some other tips that my help you in presenting your argument
   by interactive videoconference:
     * Act Natural The panel judges will be able to see and hear you just
       as if you were presenting your argument in person.

     * Make Eye Contact Since the camera is located on top of the monitor,
       by looking at the judges on the monitor, you will make eye contact
       with them.

     * Use Your Normal Voice The podium microphone and system speakers
       will pick up and transmit your voice as clearly as if you were
       arguing to the judges in person. There is no need to speak louder
       or slower than you would in a normal courtroom setting.

     * Avoid Exaggerated and Unnecessary Gestures or Movement Remain
       standing behind the podium. If you move away from the podium, you
       may be out of camera range and not visible to the panel judges.
       While normal gesturing can enhance your videoconferenced argument,
       extreme or exaggerated hand and arm movements can be even more
       distracting than when arguments are presented in person.

     * Dress Conservatively Remember you're a TV star. Just as on
       television, some colors are better than others (whenever
       practicable avoid white or vivid colors) and bold patterns may
       cause a strobe effect.

     * Avoid Unnecessary Noise Noise such as caused by tapping on the
       podium or shuffling papers may be transmitted through the system to
       the panel judges, thereby making it difficult for them to hear or
       concentrate on your argument.

   The court of appeals is pleased, through the cooperative efforts of the
   district courts in the circuit, to be able to offer this technology and
   hopes that you will find it provides an effective and efficient way for
   you to represent the interests of your clients and, at the same time,
   reduce the burdensome costs of litigation.
