http://ftp.fedworld.gov/pub/irs-news/ir-01-67.pdf

   Media Relations Office Washington, D.C. Tel. 202.622.4000 For Release:
   7/27/01 Release No: IR-2001-67 ANSWERS TO FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
   ABOUT THE ADVANCE PAYMENT MAILOUT WASHINGTON  The Treasury Department
   will send out 8 million advance payment checks today, marking the
   second week of a mass mailing that is expected to continue until the
   end of September. This week's checks are worth about $3.4 billion. The
   IRS emphasized that taxpayers don't need to call, fill out special
   forms or do anything else to receive the check. The IRS will
   automatically initiate any check due once it has processed the person's
   2000 tax return. The IRS has handled large volumes of calls on its
   toll-free hotlines since mailing notices about the advance payments to
   taxpayers who filed returns earlier this year. The IRS noted that much
   of the information taxpayers are looking for may be found in the
   notices or on the IRS Web site at www.irs.gov. To help taxpayers with
   questions about the advance payments, the IRS has these answers to some
   of the most common questions being asked. 1. Who doesn't qualify for an
   advance payment check this year? If you did not pay any income tax for
   2000, you are not eligible for the advance payment. Your 2000 return
   will show if you did not pay income tax. If line 51 on Form 1040 is
   zero, there was no income tax and you will not receive an advance
   payment check. Form 1040A filers should look at line 33; 1040EZ filers,
   line 10. If you could be claimed as a dependent on another person's
   2000 return, you are also ineligible for an advance payment. Look at
   Box 6a on Form 1040 or 1040A. If you used Form 1040EZ, look at which
   box you checked on line 5. If you left Box 6a blank, or you checked
   "yes" on Form 1040EZ's line 5, you will not get an advance payment. 2.
   I moved after I filed my taxes  how will my check will get to me? If
   you've moved since filing your tax return, you should file a change of
   address form with the U.S. Postal Service. Unlike some government
   checks, these can be forwarded to a new address. (more) - 2 - 3. I paid
   taxes last year, and I wasn't anyone's dependent  how come I'm not
   getting an advance payment check? You may have paid Social Security
   taxes or self-employment tax, but you must have paid income tax for
   2000 to get an advance payment check. For this information, look at
   your Form 1040, line 51  if it's zero, then you did not pay any income
   tax. For Form 1040A, see line 33; Form 1040EZ, see line 10. Line 56 of
   Form 1040 or line 35 of Form 1040A are not the correct lines to check
   they include other taxes and advance earned income credit amounts. 4. I
   had income tax withheld from my pay all year -- why does the IRS say I
   didn't pay any tax? You may have had income taxes withheld from your
   paychecks, but then you got all of that withholding back through a
   refund. This would happen if your exemptions and deductions reduced
   your taxable income to zero, or if certain credits, such as the child
   tax credit or education credits, reduced your tax to zero. In such
   cases, you did not pay any income tax and you do not qualify for an
   advance payment check. But if you had a tax liability before
   subtracting the Earned Income Tax Credit, you would be able to get a
   check. 5. I think my advance payment check is the wrong amount  what
   can I do? Your check may have been reduced  even to zero  by taxes you
   owed or by non-tax federal debts, such as certain child support
   obligations or student loans. In such a case, you should receive a
   letter explaining the reduction. The advance payment amount is based on
   the information shown on your 2000 tax return or as adjusted by the IRS
   during processing. The IRS cannot re-figure the amount because of later
   adjustments or an amended return. 6. I heard that the advance payments
   were for $300, but mine is only $100  is there any way I can get the
   rest? The advance payment is based on your 2000 taxes, but your
   situation may be different this year. If your advance payment  before
   any reduction for taxes or other debts  is less than the maximum
   permitted for your filing status, you may be able to claim an
   additional credit when you file your 2001 tax return. The maximum
   amounts are $300 for single or married filing separately; $500 for head
   of household; and $600 for married filing jointly or qualifying
   widow(er). A worksheet in the tax instructions will help you to figure
   any credit you qualify for, based on your 2001 tax data. (more) - 3 -
   7. My spouse and I made more than $12,000 last year -- how come we're
   not getting a $600 advance payment check? The advance payment is based
   on your taxable income, not your gross income. Your taxable income is
   what's left after you subtract your standard or itemized deductions and
   your personal exemption amounts. For example, a couple with two
   children would have four personal exemptions, worth $11,200, and a
   standard deduction of $7,350, for a total subtraction of $18,550. This
   couple would need gross income of at least $30,550 to have a taxable
   income of $12,000 and get the maximum $600 advance payment. 8. I filed
   my return by mid-April and I know the IRS received it because my tax
   payment check was cashed. Why haven't I gotten a notice about my
   advance payment? Some taxpayers who filed their returns by the April
   deadline and sent a payment with the return may not yet have received a
   notice about their advance payment check. If you are getting a check,
   you will receive a notice, but it may not arrive until a week or two
   before the check does. If you are not eligible for a check, you will
   receive a notice to that effect after your return is processed. When
   the IRS prepared the names in June for the initial notice mailout, it
   had not finished processing all the returns filed in April. This is
   because it first processes the payment checks, then the refund returns,
   and finally the returns that came with the payments. The IRS usually
   completes this third stage of processing sometime in July. X X X
