http://www.doi.gov/news/grilesmemo.htm

   [doibw.gif]

                                 [head.jpg]

                                                          December 6, 2001

   Memorandum

   To:                 All Employees

   From:             J. Steven Griles, Deputy Secretary [griles.jpg]

   Subject:         Disconnection of Internet Service

   On Wednesday December 5, 2001, District Court Judge Royce C. Lamberth:

   " ... ORDERED that defendants shall immediately disconnect from the
   Internet all information technology systems that house or provide
   access to individual Indian trust data; and it is

   FURTHER ORDERED that defendants shall immediately disconnect from the
   Internet all computers within the custody and control of the Department
   of the Interior, its employees and contractors, that have access to
   individual Indian trust data"

   On Wednesday [December 5, 2001] evening, each Interior Department
   agency was informed about the court's directives and was instructed to
   comply. Although most Interior agencies acted in a timely manner, in a
   couple of instances, misunderstanding delayed immediate compliance. To
   the best of my knowledge, all relevant Interior agencies have
   disconnected their computer Internet access and the Department's
   external network connections have been shut down.

   Consistent with the court order, the Department has moved quickly to
   ensure that trust management related information has been isolated. As
   a result of the actions that we have taken, all inbound and outbound
   Internet network traffic should be unable to get through.

   In meeting the requirements of the court, our ability to conduct a
   large portion of our daily business has been impacted. For this reason,
   we are working aggressively and diligently with our information
   technology staff to seek an acceptable way to restore operations, while
   ensuring compliance with the court order. Until further notice,
   continued compliance with the court order is required.

   We appreciate your cooperation and patience, as we work through this
   situation. As new information becomes available, we will keep you
   apprised of the status.
