http://nmml01.afsc.noaa.gov/AlaskaEcosystems/akprog.htm



   Alaska Ecosystems Research Program

   Northern fur seal bull Steller sea lion pup The Alaska Ecosystems
   Program is responsible for conducting research on Steller sea lions and
   northern fur seals and advising NMFS on the status of these species.
   Program staff work closely with numerous other agencies, including the
   NMFS Office of Protected Resources, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
   the North Pacific Fisheries Management Council, and the North Pacific
   Marine Science Organization (PICES), providing biological information
   that helps these agencies develop their management programs,
   particularly as they relate to marine mammal-fishery interactions.
   Program staff also collaborate with colleagues from universities and
   from foreign countries.

   The Alaska Ecosystems group collect and analyze biological information
   relating to the following:
   1. Stock structure (distinguishing subgroups within a particular
   species)
   2. Abundance (number of animals),
   3. Mortality of animals caused by human activities,
   4. Net productivity (population growth), and
   5. Life history data (rates of survival and reproduction).

   NMML scientists collecting data This information is gathered through
   field work in the Gulf of Alaska, Aleutian Islands, and Bering Sea and
   analyzed in the laboratory in Seattle. Access to some of these data is
   possible through our online database. These studies may be particularly
   important where sea lions and fur seals come into contact with
   commercial fisheries or when they are taken for subsistence purposes by
   native hunters.

   The Endangered Species Act of 1973 and the Marine Mammal Protection Act
   of 1972 require that human activities and their impact on marine
   mammals be monitored. Without this monitoring information, several
   commercial fisheries would risk facing severe restrictions due to their
   interactions with marine mammals. In addition, native subsistence
   harvests could be curtailed without current information on the marine
   mammal populations they hunt. Therefore, data summaries and
   recommendations are provided to the North Pacific Fisheries Management
   Council, the Indigenous People's Council for Marine Mammals, and the
   NMFS Office of Protected Species.
