http://www.eml.doe.gov/about/annrpt/annrpt01.pdf

   E M L - 6 1 6 Environmental Measurements Laboratory FY 2001 Annual
   Report A Federal Technical Resource Service Through Science Table of
   Contents Director's Message. . . . . . . . . . . . 1 AEMP  Subsurface
   Contamination . . . . 13 ETTP  Real-time Measurement EML's Impact . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Technologies . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Customers State of Connecticut DEP  Uranium .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Analyses. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Funding . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 National Security . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   14 Environmental Radiation & Emergency Response. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . 14 Radioactivity Measurements 4 Homeland Security . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . 14 EML's Global Network . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . 15 QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES . . . 4 International
   Environmental Sample Quality Assessment Program. . . . . . . . . . . 4
   Archive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
   Gamma Spectrometry Data Evaluation Nonproliferation Treaties . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 15 Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . 4 Alpha  AUTORAMP. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
   Radiological Traceability Program . . . . . . . . 5 Fission Finder . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Thermoluminescence Dosimetry
   Radiation Detection Panel . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Intercomparison
   Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Textbook on Radiochemistry . . .
   . . . . . . . 16 In Situ Gamma-ray Spectrometry Intercomparison Program
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Consultation and Program Management. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 INSTRUMENTS AND METHODS Human
   Subjects Research Database . . . 17 DEVELOPMENT . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 6 Long-term Stewardship. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   17 In Situ Gamma-ray Spectrometry . . . . . . . . 6 EM Headquarters
   EML Liaison. . . . . . . 17 Portable Aerosol Sampling System . . . . .
   . . . 7 Memorandum of Understanding Neutron Spectrometry. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 7 for EM Core Labs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . 18 Ideal Poisson Observer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Cleanup
   Criteria/Decision Document Kinetic Phosphorescence Analyzer. . . . . .
   . . 8 Database . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
   ICP/MS Facility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Advanced
   Survey Methods for the Clearance of Solid Materials . . . . . . . . . .
   18 Aerosol Spectrometer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Program
   Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Deconvolution Methods.
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 TRU and Mixed Waste Focus Area . . . .
   . 20 China Initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
   EM-5  Participation in IDQTF . . . . . . . . . 20 EML/NIST Americium
   Alpha Spectral Analysis Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . 9 EM-5  QA Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 EML
   Procedures Manual (HASL-300). . . 10 Los Alamos Pueblo Project . . . .
   . . . . . . . 21 Standards Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 21 FIELD TECHNICAL SUPPORT . . . . . . . 11
   Multi-Agency Radiological Laboratory FEMP  Groundwater Modeling. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 11 Analytical Protocols (MARLAP) . . . . . . . . 21
   Real-time Aerosol Measurements . . . . . . . 11 Interstate Technology
   and Regulatory Cooperation Coalition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
   Real-time Measurement Program . . . . . . . 12 U.S. Transuranium and
   Uranium Registries BNL  TLD Monitoring. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . 12 Advisory Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Cleanup
   Criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 IAEA Fellowship
   Cooperative Research . 22 MEMP  Subsurface Soil Characterization . 13
   INEEL  In Situ Measurement Quality . . . 13 Awards and Recognition . .
   . . . 23 Director's In FY 2001, EML participated in a highly successful
   program review conducted by the Office of Environmental Management's
   (EM) Office of Science and Message Technology (OST), and the Chicago
   Operations Office (CH). An on-site review is an important tool for
   assessing the institutional health of an EM laboratory, and for
   insuring that the laboratory is aligned with EM's cleanup mission
   requirements. As a result of the review, EM has expressed that a better
   understanding was gained of EML's unique role as a government-owned,
   government-operated (GOGO) laboratory, and what EML can contribute to
   EM and other DOE program missions. Our presentations clearly
   demonstrated the importance of EML's role in providing techni- cal
   assistance to the Department, its contractors, and management. The
   reviewers identified six primary areas where EML contributes to EM's
   cleanup mission: * Providing technical assistance to field sites, *
   Demonstrating the advantages of survey planning, * Offering legitimacy
   to site characterization and closure technologies, * Assessing
   environmental radiation data, * Providing a technically sound approach
   to the long-term stewardship program, * Working independently as
   federal employees to support EM on technical issues. I am pleased to
   present this overview of EML's FY 2001 program accomplish- ments. We,
   the staff and management of EML, welcome this opportunity to share our
   progress in the field of radiation and radioactivity measurements,
   science and technology for environmental cleanup, and national defense.
   As demonstrated by our FY 2001 accomplishments, EML is poised to
   contribute in the areas of radiation and radioactivity measurements as
   DOE expands on its national security mission. Mitchell D. Erickson,
   Director EML's Impact "EML is a federal technical resource that EML  A
   radiation and addresses environmental radiation and radioactivity
   technology radioactivity issues for environmental laboratory quality,
   science, and national security." Cleanup efforts across the DOE complex
   require a wide range of low-level radiation and radioactivity
   assessments that are used in contaminant characterization studies,
   remediation control guidance, final status surveys, and long-term
   stewardship. In some situations specialized environmental or worker
   Real-time spectrometric measurements protection compliance monitoring
   is required. being demonstrated at the Fernald EML, as a federal
   organization, provides the Environmental Management Project Office of
   Environmental Management (EM) with technical and unbiased radiation and
   * Real-time measurements and radioactivity expertise in: laboratory
   analyses * Cleanup criteria * Sampling of environmental media *
   Radiation survey planning * Assessment of radiation dose to humans *
   Design and fabrication of instruments * Measurement quality assessment
   EML helps to meet the needs of EM by transport, measurement techniques,
   and EML  A federal serving as an interface between DOE and data
   assessment. EML itself also performs interface with EM sites contractor
   staff on technical issues that environmental measurements when impact
   on remediation goals and strategies. independent expert assessments are
   This includes providing consultation on needed, as in the case of
   demonstration radiation survey planning, data quality surveys,
   comparability studies, continuous objectives, background levels of
   radionu- monitoring for ES&H impact, and clides, radiation dose models,
   environmental retrospective dosimetry studies. Sites across the DOE
   complex at which EML has provided field technical support 2 Customers
   In addition to EM, its main customer, EML * Office of Defense Nuclear
   EML  A federal serves a broad range of federal customers,
   Nonproliferation (NN) technical resource primarily in DOE that require
   applied * DoD Air Force (AF) research and operational capability in *
   DoD Defense Threat Reduction environmental radiation and radioactivity
   Agency (DTRA) measurements, quality assessment, and * DoD Army Corps of
   Engineers (ACE) technical data management. EML's FY * Defense Programs
   (DP) 2001 federal customers included: * Environmental Protection Agency
   (EPA) * Office of Environmental Management (EM) * Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission (NRC) * Office of Science (SC) Funding NN 2% SC 6% EM 79%
   WFO 13% EML's funding in FY 2001 by sponsoring agency 3 Environmental Q
   U A L I T Y A S S U R A N C E A C T I V I T I E S Radiation & EML's
   quality assurance (QA) activities support EM's site closure and cleanup
   Radioactivity efforts by assessing the quality of environmental
   radiation and radiological Measurements measurements. Accurate and
   precise field and analytical data is essential for Quality data-
   important characterization, remediation, and long-term monitoring
   decisions. fundamental to Defensible data allows program managers to
   make better and more cost effective saving time, money, decisions,
   which translates into cost savings and a healthier environment for and
   protecting health cleanup workers and the public. For example, the
   technologies that are most appropriate for a given cleanup problem are
   determined in large part by the extent of the radiological
   contamination and how accurately it is measured. QA is a prime example
   of EML's services to EM and other government, national and
   international organizations. EML is known around the world for its
   various testing and intercomparison programs. The goal of QAP is to
   provide a way for DOE Quality Assessment contractor and subcontractor
   laboratories to Program (QAP) substantiate their ability to analyze for
   low- EM level radionuclides at contaminated sites. Laboratories
   routinely analyze soil, water, vegetation, and air filter samples from
   DOE sites-measuring the emission of gamma rays and alpha and beta
   radiation to determine what radioactive elements are present and in
   what quantities. Twenty-six laboratories participated Preparation of
   air filters for QAP in the first QAP in 1976. More than 170
   laboratories participated in the most recent completed the 53rd and
   54th QAP and QAP. A summary evaluation is available published the
   results in EML-611 and 613. to the participants, DOE managers, and The
   program was highlighted at the National stakeholders via the EML Web
   Site Analytical Management Program (NAMP) (www.eml.doe.gov) 48 hours
   after the reporting meeting in Salt Lake City, September 11-13,
   deadline. In FY 2001, EML successfully 2001. (Raymond.Bath@eml.doe.gov)
   The EML Gamma Spectrometry Data Very complex spectra or spectra
   designed to Gamma Spectrometry Evaluation Program is a QA program that
   test a specific feature of the gamma analysis Data Evaluation allows
   DOE laboratories and contractors to procedure can be created. Since
   synthetic Program evaluate and improve their gamma spectrom- spectra
   are used, the program supports DOE EM etry analysis techniques. The
   program utilizes efforts toward the minimization of radioactive
   synthetic spectra that emulate the output of a waste creation, storage,
   and disposal. The germanium detector under various conditions. program
   is also used as a training tool to teach 4 laboratory personnel proper
   nuclide identification and quantification techniques. An analysis of
   the results of the third distribution of the program was published in
   an EML Report (EML-612, January 2001, available at www.eml.doe.gov),
   and was presented at the 2001 Waste Testing and Quality Assurance
   Symposium in Arlington, VA, August 2001. Fifty laboratories have
   registered as participants for the next evaluation to begin in the
   summer of 2002. EML's gamma spectrometry facility
   (Karin.Decker@eml.doe.gov) EML continues to serve as a Reference
   performance evaluation (PE) materials. The Radiological Traceability
   Laboratory for the DOE Radiological process of establishing
   traceability consists Program (RTP) Traceability Program (RTP). The
   National of a periodic exchange of materials with EM Analytical
   Management Program (NAMP) NIST, followed by analyses for selected
   established the RTP to support EM's need types of radionuclides, and an
   evaluation for high quality data from DOE radioanalytical of these
   results using ANSI N42.22 contractor laboratories. A Reference
   acceptance criteria as a guide. As of FY Laboratory status means that
   EML is directly 2001, EML's traceability to NIST has been traceable to
   the National Institute of established for water and soil PE materials.
   Standards and Technology (NIST) for both (Anna.Berne@eml.doe.gov) the
   preparation and the characterization of The results of the 12th
   International Thermoluminescence Intercomparison of Environmental
   Dosimetry (TLD) Dosimeters, conducted by EML in collabo-
   Intercomparison ration with Brookhaven National Laboratory Program
   (BNL), NIST and the International Atomic EM, NN Energy Agency (IAEA),
   were obtained from all of the participants and summarized during FY
   2001. EML began these inter- comparisons in 1974 to provide
   participants with a means to assess their performance, test
   state-of-the-art techniques, and address Dosimeters positioned for
   137Cs exposure at issues in environmental dosimetry. The 12th BNL's
   irradiation facility intercomparison included 131 participants from 42
   countries. Each set of dosimeters with over 80% of the results within
   35% was subjected to five performance tests in of the reference value.
   The results were the laboratory and the field. The group presented this
   year at the Solid State results in all testing categories were good
   Dosimetry Conference in Athens, Greece. and comparable to past
   intercomparisons (Matthew.Monetti@eml.doe.gov) 5 10 Ra-226 In FY 2001,
   the results of the in situ 5 In Situ Gamma-ray spectrometry
   intercomparison staged by EML 0 Spectrometry 10 and the Environmental
   Protection Agency's Th-232 Intercomparison Office of Radiation and
   Indoor Air (ORIA) 5 Program were analyzed. The intercomparison was held
   EM 0 at the Walker Field Large-Area Calibration 10 K-40 Pads in Grand
   Junction, CO in FY 2000. The 5 results reinforced the generally good
   agreement 0 found between soil samples and in situ meas- -0.2 -0.1 0
   0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 Relative Bias urements for naturally occurring
   gamma-emit- ting radionuclides in surface soil. The results Analysis of
   the relative bias (relative also demonstrated that the Walker Field to
   soil sample data) for the background site Calibration Pads cannot be
   used as a standard grouped by radionuclide for in situ measurements of
   226Ra without meas- urements of the 222Rn exhalation. In FY 2002, ue
   holding intercomparisons as part the results will be submitted for
   publication in of a continuing effort to establish QA for field a
   peer-reviewed journal. EML plans to contin- measurements.
   Peter.Shebell@eml.doe.gov) I N S T R U M E N T S A N D M E T H O D S D
   E V E L O P M E N T EML has a long history of developing low-level
   radiation detection and measurement instruments. While many of these
   instruments have led to commercial products, Low-level Radiation
   Detection and many are developed for small niche, customer-specific
   requests. EML's current Measurements efforts in technology development
   are applied to EM characterization and Instruments monitoring for
   long-term stewardship programs. EML also develops methodology for
   environmental sampling, low-level radiation field measurements, and
   analytical determination of radionuclide contents in air, soil, water,
   and other media. In order to provide a simplified alternative In Situ
   Gamma-ray calibration technique for germanium detec- Spectrometry tors
   used for in situ gamma-ray spectrometry, EM EML evaluated the responses
   of a number of different size detectors and derived generic equations
   that can be used to calculate the fundamental in situ calibration
   parameters. These equations only require the detector specifications
   provided by the manufacturer and yield calibration factors that are
   accurate to within 15%. The technique is an extension of a previous
   generic calibration study and it extends the applicability to a
   detector rela- tive efficiency of up to 150%. A paper on the subject
   was published in Radioactivity and Radiochemistry that featured a cover
   photo Cover of Radioactivity and by EML. (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov)
   Radiochemistry featuring one of EML's field gamma-ray spectrometers 6
   During FY 2001, EML's portable aerosol Portable Aerosol sampler system
   (PASS), used for sampling Sampling System (PASS) at Fernald
   Environmental Management EM Program (FEMP), underwent major
   improvements in its pneumatic system with the addition of new, high
   efficiency vacuum pumps that will provide long-term dependable
   sampling. The uniqueness of PASS is its ability to provide a "time
   history" of atmospheric aerosol concentrations. There is no other
   instrument on the market that is as versatile as PASS for automated
   sampling of aerosols in urban, rural or remote environmen- PASS
   deployed at FEMP tal regions. (Robert.Leifer@eml.doe.gov) EML is
   internationally recognized for its Neutron Spectrometry research in
   neutron spectrometry (measuring EM the energy distribution of neutron
   radiation). Neutron spectrometry is essential for understanding the
   negative effects of neutron radiation on human health and on the
   reliability of digital electronics. The EML multisphere neutron
   spectrometer was the primary instrument used in the international
   Atmospheric Ionizing Radiation (AIR) Project to determine doses from
   cosmic radiation, especially neutrons, to occupants of high-altitude
   aircraft. In FY 2001, a new collaboration was formed with the
   University of Delaware to improve the analysis of the AIR measurements,
   and invited presenta- Cover of the journal Health Physics tions were
   given at the November 2000 featuring the AIR measurements meeting of
   the American Nuclear Society and the U.S. Naval Academy. handling
   facilities, and to understand The instruments and methods developed
   neutron-induced "single-event effects" for this project can be applied
   to improve on microelectronics. radiation dosimetry at accelerators,
   plutonium (Paul.Goldhagen@eml.doe.gov) It is often difficult to
   separate the contribution field survey meter, that would alert the
   Ideal Poisson Observer of background radiation to a measurement
   surveyor that a statistically determined EM from the elevated levels of
   radioactivity due threshold was exceeded and to take to radiological
   contamination during field appropriate action. During FY 2001, a
   surveys at cleanup sites. When the source circuit was developed to work
   with a sodium of contamination is abundant, there is no iodide
   detector. The next phase in the problem locating the contamination. But
   at project is to interface with actual field lower levels, it may not
   be as easy to make survey meters and to compare readings such a
   determination. EML is developing with and without the special
   circuitry. the Ideal Poisson Observer, consisting of (William.Van
   Steveninck@eml.doe.gov) analytic electronic circuitry connected to a 7
   In FY 2001, EML purchased a kinetic Kinetic phosphorescence analyzer
   (Chemchek Phosphorescence Instruments, Inc.) that can detect uranium
   Analyzer (KPA) at concentrations in the parts-per-trillion range. EM
   The methodology used in the KPA is based on laser excitation of a
   uranium-bearing solution followed by time resolution of the
   luminescence signal. The accuracy and precision of the KPA instrument
   for uranium measurements was evaluated by analyzing QAP and well water
   samples. The results KPA instrument obtained when compared with the
   radiochemical method, indicate that the provides a fast, sensitive, and
   accurate KPA results compare very well with the method for detection of
   uranium in aqueous radiochemical determination. The KPA solutions.
   (Ada.Kong@eml.doe.gov) In FY 2001, EML purchased a Inductively Coupled
   Thermoelemental PQ Excell ICP/MS. The Plasma/Mass Excell will be used
   to characterize the uranium Spectrometry (ICP/MS) and plutonium
   isotopic content of natural Facility matrix (soil and vegetation) and
   synthetic EM (spiked water and air filters) performance eval- uation
   (PE) samples prepared and distributed by EML's QAP. The ICP/MS will
   also be used to perform uranium and plutonium analyses of RTP and IAEA
   PE samples, and uranium analyses of size segregated aerosol samples
   EML's ICP/MS facility collected at FEMP. (John.Kada@eml.doe.gov)
   Researchers at the New York University At present, 20 aerosol
   spectrometers are Aerosol Spectrometer (NYU) School of Medicine have,
   under a deployed at the Fernald Environmental EM grant from EM Science
   Program, devel- Management Project (FEMP), STUK, oped a miniature
   aerosol spectrometer. Helsinki, Finland, two research locations The
   collection device, coupled with in New Jersey, and EML. EML is
   currently radioactivity measurements and the operating the aerosol
   spectrometer on deconvolution program EVE, bins the its roof. The
   purpose of this study is to sized aerosol activities. This information
   investigate the possibility of measuring is then used with the ICRP
   lung model to long-lived radionuclides with the spec- estimate the
   radiation dose that would trometer, specifically the actinides, and
   have resulted from an exposure to the analyzing the samples by ICP/MS.
   sampled atmosphere. (Isabel.Fisenne@eml.doe.gov) A Geo-Probe core
   driven straight into in the field, a series of in situ gamma-ray
   Deconvolution Methods the ground provides a depth profile of spectra
   along the core. This method EM contaminants along its length. While it
   is achieves reasonable agreement with actual possible to characterize
   the depth profile averages of contamination concentrations by chemical
   analysis, workers in the FEMP obtained by an analysis along the core
   but Real-Time Measurements Program fails in certain cases. In FY 2001,
   EML developed a core counter that measures, developed procedures for
   accurately 8 calibrating such tools and applied data deconvolution
   techniques to the resulting data. This work achieved impressive results
   (see figure). Using the same data as collect- ed in previous methods,
   the deconvolution algorithm can locate hot spots and estimate their
   contamination level in addition to providing an estimate for average
   concentrations over sections of the core. Future work will focus on
   packaging this algorithm in a program that field sites The deconvoluted
   data shows excellent agreement can easily apply to problems they face.
   with the actual activity profile in the core as
   (Paul.Bailey@eml.doe.gov) compared with the old method that
   significantly underestimates the peak activity level The World
   Meteorological Organization's China Initiatives Global Atmosphere Watch
   (GAW) Program SC has designated EML as the World Calibration Center for
   Radioactivity responsible for radionuclide air sampling and calibration
   worldwide at GAW sites. In this capacity, the Laboratory has initiated
   the installation of an EML surface air sampling system (SASP) at Mt.
   Waliguan in Qinghai Province in central China. Mt. Waliguan is already
   equipped with Mt. Waliguan observatory site in the WMO GAW advanced
   atmospheric measurement systems, therefore, combined with EML's
   Province, in southwest China along the radionuclide measurements, the
   site located eastern slope of the Himalayas. This region at 3800 m
   height will provide unique is a distinctive environmental unit with
   scientific data for global atmospheric great altitude gradients that
   form a complex modeling and for studying global transport. landscape
   with a subtropical climate influ- In FY 2002, EML plans to add another
   enced by monsoons. (Sam.Lee@eml.doe.gov) monitoring site at Guiyang,
   Guizhou There is a growing need at many DOE sites EML/NIST Americium to
   determine 241Am in low-level environmen- Alpha Spectral Analysis tal
   samples. However, when using alpha Study spectrometry to measure the
   ratio of 243Am EM (added as a tracer) to 241Am, the overlap of the two
   peaks has to be resolved accurately for the data to be reliable. A
   study to evalu- ate several techniques (algorithms) for the analysis of
   alpha spectra with overlapping peaks is being conducted in
   collaboration with NIST. The statistical evaluation of the Comparison
   of spectra from two bias produced by each of the algorithms replicate
   microprecipitated sources collected studied showed that all of the
   techniques under the same counting conditions were sensitive to peak
   shape and displayed 9 some degree of inconsistency. The bias
   variability of the results obtained from was minimized for samples in
   which the replicate samples studied. An algorithm in 243Am was present
   in excess of 241Am. use at the Institute for Reference Materials In FY
   2001, these results were presented and Measurements (IRMM) in
   Retieseweg, at national and international conferences, Belgium, was
   included in the investigation. and accepted for publication in a peer-
   A full statistical evaluation of these results review journal. will be
   completed in FY 2002, and will be An additional phase of the study was
   submitted for publication in a peer-review conducted in FY 2001 to
   investigate the journal. (Anna.Berne@eml.doe.gov) The 28th Edition of
   HASL-300, originally Sr-01-RC, Sr-02-RC, U-02-RC, and EML Procedures
   issued in 1957, provides a world-renowned U-04-RC) from HASL-300 under
   "EPA- Manual (HASL-300) resource for analytical procedures and
   Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures (EM) methods. The Manual is
   continually updated for the Analysis of Pollutants, Under the via EML's
   Web Site. In FY 2001, two new Clean Water Act, National Primary Water
   methods were added: "Strontium-90 in Regulations and National Secondary
   Water, Urine, and Feces," and Drinking Water Regulations; Methods
   "Standardization of Yttrium Carrier." EPA Update; 66FR3466-3497,
   January 16, approved five procedures (Ra-04-RC, 2001."
   (Nancy.Chieco@eml.doe.gov) ANSI-N13.37: American National the
   Calibration of Germanium Detectors Standards Development Standard for
   Environmental TLDs for In Situ Gamma-Ray Measurements." EM EML chairs
   the American National (Peter.Shebell@eml.doe.gov) Standards Institute
   (ANSI) Standard N13.37 committee developing procedures for the ANSI
   N41.5: Radioanalytical Data use of TLDs in environmental applications.
   Verification and Validation Environmental TLDs are stationed at the EML
   is a member of the ANSI N41.5 fence-line and in communities near
   nuclear standard writing committee. The standard power plants, research
   facilities, interim is in the final review stages and will be waste
   storage areas, and remediation sites used for the validation of
   radioanalytical as part of environmental surveillance pro- data
   collected in support of EM projects. grams that assess the radiation
   dose to the (Pamela.Greenlaw@eml.doe.gov) public. The N13.37 committee
   includes ASTM D19.04: Standard Methods experts from the Nuclear
   Regulatory for the Analysis of Radionuclides Commission, NIST, DOE,
   academia, and in Water industry. (Gladys.Klemic@eml.doe.gov) EML is a
   member of the American ANSI N42.28: In Situ Gamma-Ray Standards and
   Testing Materials (ASTM) Spectrometry D19.04 Committee. The committee
   is EML is a member of the ANSI N42.rm sub- working on a method
   validation study for committee that develops standards, usually the
   determinations of 99Tc, and EML has performance standards, for
   radiation detec- developed a statistical protocol to evaluate tion
   instrumentation. EML also co-chairs the laboratory data. with INEEL a
   writing group working on (Pamela.Greenlaw@eml.doe.gov) ANSI N42.28,
   "Performance Standard for 10 Federal Technical F I E L D T E C H N I C
   A L S U P P O R T Experts-Service As federal technical experts, EML
   supports EM cleanup and closure activities at Through Science DOE sites
   by demonstrating and deploying advanced radiological measurement and
   survey methods; by assisting in the collection, interpretation, and
   modeling of radioactive contaminant data in special low-level (at or
   near background) situations; and by promoting regulatory and industry
   acceptance of field radiation measurement technologies. EML applied its
   state-of-the-art the irreversible sorption of uranium. EML FEMP
   Groundwater three-dimensional groundwater model theoretically
   formulated the sorption rates Modeling to examine the transport of
   subsurface associated with adsorption, desorption, uranium
   contamination at FEMP. Modeling and chemisorption. Future activities
   different scenarios of reversible and irre- include sequential leaching
   experiments versible chemisorption processes and their to characterize
   the partitioning of uranium associated rates of sorption showed that
   the from Fernald soil samples, and sorption irreversible process
   reduces the ground experiments to determine the sorption water uranium
   plume. Little information rates from the formulations. from field and
   laboratory studies exists on (Sam.Lee@eml.doe.gov) A journal article on
   EML's work at FEMP calculations. To improve FEMP's estimates FEMP
   Real-time on dose calculations and size distribution on dose
   calculations to the population, Aerosol Measurements measurements of
   atmospheric aerosols was aerosol sampling must incorporate size EM
   written and submitted to the Health distribution measurements. Physics
   Journal. EML studies at FEMP The program has been expanded to showed
   that the aerosol activity median include the isotopic concentrations of
   both aerodynamic diameter (AMAD) of the thorium and uranium airborne
   aerosol with Fernald samples collected during the period special
   attention to 230Th concentrations 1999 to 2000 was at least factor of
   6.5 because of the elevated levels of 230Th found times the normally
   assumed 1 µm AMAD. in high volume measurements made at Doses to an
   off-site individual, calculated the FEMP. All samples collected will be
   from samples obtained by FEMP from high analyzed by ICP/MS isotopic
   analysis of volume samplers, are overestimated by a thorium and uranium
   with special attention large factor because of underestimating of to
   the 230Th isotope. the FEMP AMAD, and not incorporating
   (Robert.Leifer@eml.doe.gov) the latest lung model into the dose 11 EML
   continued its support to FEMP in FEMP  Real-time their real-time
   measurement program. This Measurement Program included serving the team
   planning the EM engineering design and application aspects of the
   Integrated Excavation Control System under an Accelerated Site
   Technology Deployment (ASTD) program. EML also performed a radon
   interference study using historical site monitoring data as well as new
   soil emanation measurements conducted at EML to help in the
   interpretation of Certified area at FEMP in situ gamma-ray
   spectrometric measure- ments. At the close of FY 2001, FEMP had was
   reached due to the successful application essentially completed the
   soil certification of in situ gamma-ray spectrometry. process in survey
   units outside the former (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov) production area, a
   significant milestone that EML continued providing radiation- BNL  TLD
   Monitoring monitoring assistance to BNL at the EM Building 650 Sump
   Outfall Area through FY 2001. EML has deployed TLDs quarterly at this
   "area of concern" since FY 1997 to measure ionizing radiation. EML's
   measurements provide a radiation baseline, and the ability to track
   changes if they occurred during the interim monitoring period. EML has
   over three decades TLD monitoring station at BNL Building of experience
   with TLDs, which are 650 Sump Outfall Area inexpensive, small passive
   devices that are well suited for reliable measure- technical expertise
   while this ments of environmental radioactivity, area undergoes
   remedial activity. such as this application at BNL. During
   (Matthew.Monetti@eml.doe.gov) FY 2002, EML will continue to provide At
   BNL's request, EML compiled upcoming negotiations with EPA in BNL
   Cleanup Criteria information from EPA Region II regarding relation to
   cleanup levels at DOE sites EM superfund sites cleanup decisions. as
   compared to those in private industry. Pertinent information, such as
   cleanup This study was performed with the goals and rationale for
   cleanup goals, guidance from Joe DiMatteo of CH's was reduced into
   concise documents Office of Technical Services. regarding each site of
   interest. This (Paul.Bailey@eml.doe.gov) information is being used by
   BNL in 12 In concert with scientists from Argonne involved a suite of
   radionuclides that MEMP  Subsurface National Laboratory (ANL), Sandia
   included the 227Ac series and the Soil Characterization National
   Laboratory, and Ohio State presence of the isotope 219Rn. A report on
   EM University, EML assisted in developing the strategies was issued
   through the characterization strategies for subsurface Innovative
   Treatment and Remediation soils adjacent to the SW and R buildings
   Demonstration Program of the at the Miamisburg Environmental Subsurface
   Contaminants Focus Area. Management Project (MEMP). The
   (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov) measurement challenge in this case EML is
   assisting the State of Idaho, Idaho in situ gamma-ray measurements
   program. INEEL  In Situ National Engineering and Environmental Using in
   situ gamma-ray spectrometry at Measurement Quality Laboratory (INEEL)
   Oversight Program with INEEL will reduce the costs associated EM QA
   issues associated with their in situ with collecting and analyzing
   surface soil gamma-ray measurements program. The samples. In FY 2001,
   the State of Idaho Oversight Program is a state agency that Oversight
   Program used EML's calibration monitors activities at INEEL on behalf
   of facility to calibrate their detectors. EML the citizens of Idaho.
   The agency has devel- also assisted the Oversight Program with oped a
   monitoring network to help evaluate a study demonstrating the
   comparability of the effects of INEEL on public health and in situ
   gamma-ray measurements with soil the environment. INEEL and the
   Oversight sampling at the INEEL. Program are working together to
   develop an (Peter.Shebell@eml.doe.gov) EML assisted ANL in the
   development of primary contaminant of concern, efforts will AEMP
   Subsurface sampling strategies for estimating subsur- be made to apply
   the EM-50 sponsored Containment face contaminated soil volumes at the
   RMI spectral gamma probe using direct push EM Titanium Extrusion Plant
   at the Ashtabula methods to obtain real-time measurements Environmental
   Management Project (AEMP) of soils beneath the extrusion plant. in
   northeastern Ohio. With uranium as the (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov) To
   further deploy the real-time measurement systems for delineation of
   uranium ETTP  Real-time technologies that have successfully been
   contamination at a typical field site, the Measurement applied to
   nuclide specific measurements at K-901 North Disposal Area. Given the
   Technologies Fernald, EML served on a team with FEMP thousands of acres
   that may require measure- EM personnel in a demonstration survey at the
   ments of some type at ETTP, these instrument East Tennessee Technology
   Park (ETTP). systems would offer considerable savings in Federal and
   state regulatory personnel were time and money over baseline sampling
   and shown the effectiveness of both fixed and laboratory analytical
   techniques. mobile in situ gamma-ray spectrometer
   (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov) The State of Connecticut Department of EML
   was asked to confirm the results for State of Connecticut Environmental
   Protection (DEP) requested two water samples, and also to provide DEP
   Uranium EML's assistance in determining isotopic technical assistance
   in the areas of sampling Analysis uranium in drinking water sampled
   from protocol, sample preservation, selection of a EM wells in the
   Newton Township. Preliminary suitable method of analysis, and in
   locating analyses by the DEP, made at the request of background
   information on the EPA a patient with some bone loss, showed
   regulations for uranium in drinking water. elevated levels of uranium
   in some wells. (Raymond.Bath@eml.doe.gov) 13 National Security EML
   carries out research and development of field and laboratory based
   advanced analytical instruments and technologies, coupled with current
   Radionuclides  Fundamental to techniques in sample collection and
   analysis and data reduction, to identify detecting proliferation
   nuclear proliferation threats throughout the world, and to provide
   advice and activities, serving as consultation on environmental
   measurements and signatures. atmospheric tracers With its unique
   location in downtown New EML is a member of the Federal Emergency
   Response York City, EML serves as a satellite team for Monitoring and
   Assessment Center (FRMAC) NNSA the DOE Radiological Assistance Program
   Laboratory Analysis Working Group. EML's (RAP) in Region I, which is
   operated out of role in the working group is to help to define BNL. In
   FY 2001, EML's Radiation Control and support a performance evaluation
   Manager served as Region I Team Lead dur- program for DOE's analytical
   laboratories. ing an exercise conducted in Albuquerque, The
   laboratories would be used to provide NM that involved a Radiological
   Assistance radiological data to define the extent and Program
   Transportation Emergency direction of contamination migration in a
   Response (RAPTER). radiological emergency response.
   (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov) In the aftermath of the World Trade Center
   Homeland Security attack of September 11, EML became involved in
   several Homeland Security initiatives. These initiatives included a
   request from the EPA Region II that involved researching the DOE
   complex for available radiation portal monitors to check debris being
   removed from the site. EML also worked with the EPA air monitoring
   group from the National Research Exposure Laboratory to help in the
   siting of dioxin Monitoring equipment for homeland security monitors.
   In addition, EML teamed with the University of California at Davis and
   aerosol particulate collection system; the installed an eight stage
   rotating-drum same type used at our SASP sites, which impactor system
   on the EML roof to provide was reactivated September 17th. Also a time
   history of the particle size distribution installed is a pressurized
   ionization chamber of aerosols and associated concentrations (PIC) that
   provides total real-time dose of various pollutants in the air in lower
   assessments. Development has begun on an Manhattan.
   (Kevin.Miller@eml.doe.gov) Intelligent Radiation Detector (IRD), which
   Monitoring data from instruments on with continuous software analysis
   will be EML's roof are being displayed on our able to distinguish
   between natural and Homeland Security link from EML's manmade
   atmospheric radioactivity. homepage. The instruments include an
   (Colin.Sanderson@eml.doe.gov) 14 EML maintains a global network of
   aerosol EML's Global Network and deposition sampling sites. These NN
   programs began over five decades ago and continue to be a useful means
   to detect the presence and distribution of both anthro- pogenic and
   natural radionuclides transported through the atmosphere. Samples are
   regularly collected and sent to EML. Aerosol samples are analyzed by
   gamma-ray spectrometry and the results are reviewed and published. The
   deposition samples are EML's global network site at incorporated into
   EML's sample archive and the South Pole Base are available for analysis
   as the need arises. The network provides a useful tool for intentional
   release of radionuclides in the detecting and assessing an accidental
   or atmosphere. (Fabien.Raccah@eml.doe.gov) In FY 2001, EML completed
   the development International of the IESA, which is an Internet
   accessible Environmental Sample database (http://iesa.eml.doe.gov/)
   containing Archive (IESA) information on environmental samples (air, NN
   water, soil, sediment, vegetation, etc.) that were collected throughout
   the world. Many of these samples were collected during the period of
   atmospheric nuclear weapons testing and have unique isotopic
   compositions. Some samples were collected in the vicinity of former
   U.S. nuclear weapons production facilities and may be used to identify
   the environmental signa- IESA database map search interface tures of
   certain processes. Other samples serve (available at:
   http://nesa.eml.doe.gov) to establish current global baseline values
   for selected environmental signatures. As a federal laboratory, EML
   supports was collected for the Comprehensive Nonproliferation Treaties
   DOE's National Security mission through Nuclear-Test-Ban-Treaty (CTBT)
   was found DTRA its detection and deterrence activities for to have
   activities from low anthropogenic the nonproliferation treaties. EML
   has nuclides. The sample was split and sent been designated as the U.S.
   radionuclide to two IMS radionuclide laboratories for laboratory in
   support of the International analyses, which included EML. EML
   Monitoring System (IMS). EML has analyzed the first level
   five-air-filter sample established a dedicated radionuclide and is
   developing procedures for the analysis, laboratory, within its current
   facility, for tracking, QA, and reporting of sample the analysis of air
   filters by gamma-ray data to the CTBT Organization. EML also
   spectrometry in support of nuclear weapons provides technical review
   and comments for nonproliferation. In FY 2001, a sample the working
   group on radioanalytical issues. initially analyzed at an IMS station
   where it (Colin.Sanderson@eml.doe.gov) 15 At some DOE facilities, alpha
   measurements Alpha-Autoramp of airborne radioactive contaminants are
   more EM sensitive than gamma-ray analysis. This is especially true
   where the contaminants of concern are depleted uranium or plutonium
   since the long-lived isotopes of both these elements decay primarily
   with alpha emissions. In addition, in the event of an aborted nuclear
   detonation (fizzle), large amounts of plutonium are likely to be
   released into the atmosphere. Such an event cannot be detected by gamma
   AUTORAMP filter cartridge being inserted analysis, but is detectable
   with alpha analysis. into new alpha chamber To address these concerns,
   this year EML inte- grated an alpha air-ionization chamber with the
   instrument, is uniquely qualified for this triaxial robotic arm of the
   EML AUTORAMP development. In addition to unattended auto- system.
   Air-ionization requires the measure- matic operation, another salient
   feature is high ment of extremely low electric currents. EML,
   sensitivity, which, in large measure, is due to having pioneered low
   current MOSFET tech- the innovative filter/pump arrangement that is
   nology, which is commercially incorporated in capable of sampling over
   12000 m3 of air per the world's most sensitive current measuring day.
   (Vincent.Negro@eml.doe.gov) A fission finder system, intended for use
   in which when outfitted with proper software, Fission Finder on-site
   CTBT treaty verification, is in the early could identify hot spot
   locations. The "insider" DTRA stages of investigation and development.
   The would be a far more complex unit used for fission finder consists
   of two separate units, determining the fission product likelihood
   tentatively called the "outsider" and the (FPL) of various types of
   samples that were "insider." These units will be built as inexpen-
   collected in the field. No such specialized sively as possible,
   allowing them to be treated instruments are commercially available. To
   as disposable. Disposing or abandoning the date, the detector, shield
   and sample load equipment after use would assure the "Host" arrangement
   of the "insider" were tested to nation (where the measurements were
   made) optimize the shielding and to verify the soft- that no
   information was being taken out of the ware algorithm used for
   determining the country. The "outsider" would be a gamma sur- FPL. In
   addition, several small but powerful vey/spectrometry instrument,
   combined with a microcomputers are being evaluated to find global
   positioning system for coordinate loca- one suitable for this unit.
   tion. An on-board computer would control, (Norman.Latner@eml.doe.gov)
   store and later download to a standard PC, EML is a member of the RDP,
   which is a Decision Directives, and DOE, DoD and other Radiation
   Detection standing advisory group composed of technical agencies by
   providing timely expert advice as Panel (RDP) experts in radiation
   detection from DOE labo- requested. The RDP convened twice in FY NN
   ratories. The RDP supports NN in its responsi- 2001 for a technology
   symposium and a pro- bilities for treaty monitoring, Presidential gram
   review. (Paul.Goldhagen@eml.doe.gov) EML has accepted an invitation to
   serve on the the field of radiochemistry developed for the Textbook On
   Editorial Advisory Board for the "Textbook on U.S. nuclear weapons
   programs. The textbook Radiochemistry Radiochemistry." This work is
   being sponsored could be used for graduate level courses in NN under a
   Nonproliferation and National Security radiochemistry, and as a
   reference for nuclear University Research Initiative. The textbook and
   cleanup workers and managers. aims to preserve and explain key findings
   in (Isabel.Fisenne@eml.doe.gov) 16 Consultation EML staff provides
   support to EM and SC Headquarters in fulfilling and Program important
   programmatic functions and responsibilities. As federal technical
   Management experts, the EML staff not only fulfills administrative
   roles, but also provides essential technical direction for several
   programs. EML staff are also As federal technical experts EML provides
   members of several advisory committees and interagency working groups
   accurate, unbiased, that help the Department maintain its high quality
   research and relevance cost effective in the areas of environmental
   radiation measurement and detection. assistance to the Department EML
   maintains the HSRD for the Life of the database. EML also provides
   software Human Subjects Sciences Division (SC-72) in SC. The database,
   development and participates in the Human Research Database a component
   of the Protecting Human Subjects Subjects Working Group. The database
   can (HSRD) Program, documents all research involving the be accessed
   from EML's Web Site. EML also SC use of human subjects that is funded
   by DOE, provides special assistance to Dr. Susan Rose, occurs at DOE
   facilities or is performed by Program Manager of the Protecting Human
   DOE personnel. DOE O 443.1, "Protection of Subjects Program. This
   special assistance Human Subjects", requires human subjects includes
   assisting in field audits, conferences, research projects to be
   reported to the HSRD. publications, teleconferencing, and EML is
   responsible for creating, annually coordination of the Working Group
   activities. updating, maintaining and ensuring the quality
   (Richard.Larsen@eml.doe.gov) EML is supporting CH in the planning of
   the responsible party must be put in place before Long-term Stewardship
   transition to long-term stewardship at BNL. this date. EML is working
   closely with BNL EM This transition is approaching rapidly, and is
   staff and the Long-term Stewardship Office scheduled to occur in June
   2005. Details of in Washington, D.C. to ensure that this will funding
   and protocols for handling over be a seamless and effortless
   transition. responsibility from EM to the appropriate
   (Alfred.Cavallo@eml.doe.gov) OST is the Cognizant Secretarial Office
   Washington, D.C. over the past two years. EM Headquarters  (CSO) for
   all EM laboratories, and has This has helped to provide OST with an EML
   Liaison established a Laboratory Management group understanding of
   EML's capabilities, and EM to supervise these organizations. In order
   to has enabled EML to respond rapidly and ensure that the EML/OST
   partnership is as efficiently to opportunities and needs within
   productive as possible, an EML scientist EM.
   (Alfred.Cavallo@eml.doe.gov) has served on detail at EM Headquarters in
   17 In FY 2001, EML was involved in drafting the established. To ensure
   EM mission relevance Memorandum of MOU among EM Core Laboratories. The
   of collaboration to its outcomes, this Working Understanding (MOU)
   parties involved in this MOU include the four Group will include site
   operations representa- for EM Core Labs laboratories for which EM has
   cognizant secre- tion from the four major EM sites, one closure EM
   tarial officer responsibility and the national site, and one disposal
   site. For any topic being laboratories that provide focus area lead
   considered by the EM Core Laboratories, the laboratory support to EM.
   The MOU is Working Group will identify the appropriate scheduled to be
   signed and put into effect in participants from the DOE complex, other
   FY 2002. In order to carry out this MOU, a federal agencies,
   universities, and industry. Core Laboratories Working Group will be
   (Mitchell.Erickson@eml.doe.gov) The C2D2 database provides a central
   source Cleanup of DOE cleanup information that can be useful
   Criteria/Decision to EM decision makers in the negotiation of Document
   (C2D2) future cleanup criteria and in assessing com- Database plex-wide
   status. The C2D2 database includes EM more than 50 data elements, such
   as cleanup concentration, response action, risk, and site information
   for 320 DOE remediation sites. Since 1999, EML has been coordinating
   and upgrading the C2D2 database and is working in collaboration with EM
   Headquarters and C2D2 Argonne National Laboratory (ANL). In FY 2001,
   EML developed a new user and completed another paper that will be
   interface that will make it easier to use the published in the
   International Journal of C2D2 data to address EM needs. The new
   Environmental Technology and Management. interface allows users to
   select a contaminant In FY 2002, EML will implement the and medium of
   interest from dropdown menus new user interface with links through the
   and then view graphical displays. Also in FY EM web site. EML will
   continue to refine 2001, EML presented a paper on C2D2 at the the
   interface to address EM needs, and is 8th International Conference on
   Radioactive working on a paper to report the Web-based Waste Management
   and Environmental capabilities in a peer-review journal. Remediation
   (September 2001, Belgium), (Gladys.Klemic@eml.doe.gov) EML is providing
   assistance to the Nuclear volumetric sources. EML is working to
   Advanced Survey Regulatory Commission (NRC) in several areas
   incorporate the Bayesian geostatistical methods Methods for the
   relating to surveys of materials, equipment, used in the Adaptive
   Sampling and Analysis Clearance of Solid and subsurface activity. In FY
   2001, EML Program at ANL into the Spatial Analysis and Materials
   co-authored a report with the Oak Ridge Decision Assistance (SADA)
   software being NRC Institute for Science and Education (ORISE)
   developed at the University of Tennessee. The on the design of surveys
   that could be used to aim is to incorporate prior knowledge of site
   determine whether materials could be released contamination into a form
   that could be used from radiological controls. This work extends to
   reduce the amount of sampling necessary to the surface sampling
   methodology of the characterize, remediate, and release sites with
   Multi-Agency Radiation Survey and Site known or suspected subsurface
   contamination. Investigation Manual (MARSSIM) to
   (Carl.Gogolak@eml.doe.gov) 18 Strategic Environmental Research and the
   DOE/DoD mission for projects to be fund- Program Coordination
   Development Program (SERDP) SC ed by SERDP, providing guidance for the
   fiscal EML continued its role as SERDP Technical year program,
   reviewing and selecting propos- Coordinator for all Departmental
   activities for als, and reviewing SERDP new-start and DOE Offices (SC,
   EM, DP, NNSA, FE, and continuing research projects. In addition,
   others) and the National Laboratories with the EML also participates as
   an EM representative DoD, EPA, and other federal agencies partner- on
   the "Compliance" and "Conservation" ing with SERDP. FY 2001 activities
   included Technical Thrust Area Working Group. developing the statements
   of needs related to (Merrill.Heit@eml.doe.gov) Joint Coordinating
   Committee on which utilizes Russian data and expertise Environmental
   Restoration and Waste of groundwater contaminant transport at
   Management (JCCEM) EM Russian nuclear sites. The TPM is The Russian
   Ministry of Atomic Energy responsible for the strategic planning and
   (MINATOM) and OST have been cooperating coordination of the American
   and Russian for more than 10 years on many different projects,
   ultimately ensuring that the aspects of mutually beneficial
   environmental technical direction of the program is management issues.
   JCCEM is the managing beneficial to EM site cleanup activities. body of
   this formal Memorandum of During FY 2001, the major activity for the
   Cooperation, operating under the umbrella of TPM was the startup of a
   project utilizing the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy Act. For the
   contaminant transport data of deep much of this time, EML as Technical
   injection wells of liquid radioactive waste Program Manager (TPM), has
   led the Site at the Siberian Chemical Combine, also Characterization
   and Contaminant Transport known as the Tomsk site. Area of Cooperation
   within the JCCEM, (Adam.Hutter@eml.doe.gov) Interagency Arctic Research
   Policy of the Arctic Research Plan," the Committee (IARPC) EM "Annual
   Overview of Agency (DOE) Arctic EML continued to provide staff
   representation Research," and responses to programmatic for DOE at all
   IARPC meetings to ensure questions from the Arctic Research
   coordination of Arctic research activities Commission (ARC). EML also
   serves with other federal agencies. In addition, as a member of the
   IARPC-related the EML staff representative prepared all multi-agency
   Working Group on the required IARPC-related reports for the "Study of
   Environmental Arctic Change." Department, including the "Biennial
   Update (Merrill.Heit@eml.doe.gov) Deactivation and Decommissioning and
   long-term stewardship of EM sites. Focus Area (DDFA) EM The EML Liaison
   to the DDFA is part of In FY 2001, EML continued to serve as the the
   CMST-CP Field Technical Management Characterization, Monitoring and
   Sensor Team of the Nevada Operations Office. In Technology
   Cross-Cutting Program's this position, EML integrates into the
   (CMST-CP) Liaison to the DDFA. The Focus Area and Crosscutting Programs
   CMST-CP provides innovative technology by participating in strategic
   planning, solutions within the OST purview of providing implementation,
   and management of OST a full range of science and technology Research
   and Development programs. resources needed to support the cleanup
   (Adam.Hutter@eml.doe.gov) 19 EM's effort in the storage of transuranic
   EML has also been assisting the TMWFA Tru and Mixed Waste waste and
   spent nuclear fuel involves with the American Society of Mechanical
   Focus Area (TMWFA) supporting the development of non-destruc- Engineers
   and Spent Nuclear Fuel Review EM tive and non-invasive characterization
   Panel reports of the Multi-Detector Assay technologies. In FY 2001, EML
   provided System (MDAS). The MDAS is being assistance to the TMWFA on
   issues relevant developed at INEEL as a means to to characterization
   technologies of characterize remotely handled transuranic transuranic
   waste and spent nuclear fuel waste and DOE's spent nuclear fuel. as
   requested by the CMST/TMWFA liaison. (Peter.Shebell@eml.doe.gov) EML is
   a member the EM-5 Interagency recommendation of EM-5, the Assistant
   EM-5  Participation in Data Quality Task Force (IDQTF). The Secretary
   for EM signed the UFP document IDQTF IDQTF is a federal interagency
   consensus on January 19, 2001. EML continued to EM workgroup comprised
   of voting members support EM activities on the IDQTF in 2001 from EPA,
   DoD, EML, and the Office of by working as a voting member on the
   Environmental Health (EH). In 2001 the additional guidance documents to
   the UFP IDQTF issued the Uniform Federal Policy on the Quality
   Assurance Program Plan (UFP) for Implementing Environmental (QAPP) and
   Data Review. In concert with Quality Systems that documents a
   consistent EM-5, EML has delivered presentations to approach to the
   evaluation of data for national groups on the implementation of
   hazardous waste cleanup activities. On the the UFP.
   (Raymond.Bath@eml.doe.gov) During FY 2001, EML provided technical
   Radioactive Waste Management QA EM-5  QA Audits support for the EM-5
   High Level Waste Requirements and Description (QARD, EM (HLW) Quality
   Assurance Program's audits. DOE/RW-0333P). Support was provided for
   annual QA audits EML provided technical personnel to of the HLW
   Programs at the Savannah River the audit teams for the purpose of
   assessing Defense Waste Processing Facility (DWPF), the facility's QA
   associated with sampling, and the West Valley Demonstration Project
   analytical data, analytical and radioanalyti- (WVDP). Audits are
   conducted to assess the cal procedures, instrument calibration,
   adequacy and effectiveness of the Quality traceability, and laboratory
   personnel Assurance Program implementation as training protocols. The
   results of these applied to waste acceptance activities assessments
   were detailed in the Quality associated with the HLW vitrification
   Assurance Program Audit Reports issued process. These audits are
   conducted to for each facility. meet the provisions of the Office of
   Civilian (Raymond.Lagomarsino@eml.doe.gov) 20 The Los Alamos Pueblo
   Project (LAPP), and management of environmental Los Alamos Pueblo
   jointly sponsored by the National Nuclear monitoring programs, sampling
   and analysis Project Security Administration, Office of Defense
   protocols, and data quality evaluation EM Programs and EM, funds
   environmental procedures, and an annual assessment of programs and
   provides assistance to the four the progress of each of the Pueblos. In
   FY Accord Pueblos. The Pueblo are implement- 2001, EML also provided
   training for the ing, as part of their environmental programs, use of a
   directed planning process for an independent assessment of the impact
   of environmental data collection. Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL)
   In FY 2002, "A Guide to Beginning an operations and activities on their
   resources. Environmental Program," developed by During FY 2001, EML
   continued its the Technical Advisory Team will be participation as a
   member of the Technical published by the National Nuclear Security
   Advisory Review Team. The Team provides Administration (NNSA). ongoing
   technical guidance on the design (Catherine.Klusek@eml.doe.gov) Agency
   for Toxic EML provided technical assistance to the control regimes were
   discussed with the Substances and ATSDR located in Atlanta, GA.
   Elevated ATSDR. The value of the EML's Web Site Disease Registry
   concentrations of uranium had been found for tracking performance of
   laboratories (ATSDR) in a South Carolina community served by (by matrix
   and radionuclide) through EML's well water. Sample collection,
   preservation, QAP link was highlighted. EM detection techniques, QA,
   and quality (Isabel.Fisenne@eml.doe.gov) Of critical importance to
   informed management and laboratory personnel. In Multi-Agency
   decision-making is data of known quality FY 2001, EML continued to
   provide a lead Radiological Laboratory appropriate for its intended
   use. The technical role in the development of several Analytical MARLAP
   manual addresses the need for a chapters of the manual and participated
   in Protocols(MARLAP) nationally consistent approach to producing the
   development of modifications to the EM radioanalytical data that meets
   a project or Manual based on comments received from program's data
   requirements. The MARLAP the review by the participating agencies.
   manual was prepared by a multi-agency EML assisted the MARLAP Working
   Group technical workgroup composed of represen- by developing and
   hosting the site for the tatives from the DoD, DOE, EPA, NRC, public
   comment period (August through NIST, U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) and
   December 2001). EML will participate in a the Food and Drug
   Administration (FDA). special session at the 47th Annual State
   participation in the development of Radiochemical Measurements
   Conference the manual involved contributions from in Honolulu, Hawaii
   in November 2001 to representatives from the Commonwealth of present
   highlights of the manual to the radio- Kentucky and the State of
   California. The analytical professional community. basic goal of the
   manual is to provide guid- (Catherine.Klusek@eml.doe.gov) ance and a
   framework for project planners, 21 In FY 2001, regulators from the New
   Jersey's receives over 60% of its funds from DOE. As Interstate
   Technology DEP invited EML to contribute to the ITRC part of the
   Sampling, Characterization, and and Regulatory by being a member of the
   Sampling, Monitoring Team, EML will summarize the Cooperation (ITRC)
   Characterization, and Monitoring Team. The efforts of the Real-Time
   Measurement Group COALITION ITRC is a state-led national coalition
   whose at FEMP. This effort will help inform and EM mission is to create
   tools and strategies to educate state regulators on innovative charac-
   reduce interstate barriers to the deployment of terization techniques
   for soils developed by innovative environmental technologies. ITRC
   FEMP. (Peter.Shebell@eml.doe.gov) The USTUR were established to perform
   The Committee consists of seven members: U.S. Transuranium and
   measurements on former actinide workers one from Washington State
   University, the Uranium Registries to verify the mathematical models
   used to location of the USTUR; one from the general (USTUR) Advisory
   estimate radiation doses from inhalation, public; one from organized
   labor; and the Committee ingestion, and wound exposures. The remaining
   members are selected from the EM information gathered by the USTUR has
   been scientific community with expertise in health folded into the
   radiation dose estimates of the physics, radiochemistry, radiobiology,
   and National Council on Radiation Protection and bioethics. EML has
   participated for four Measurements (NCRP) and the International years
   on the Committee in the dual role of Commission on Radiological
   Protection radiochemistry expert and DOE representative (ICRP). The
   Advisory Committee to the to the Committee, and has an additional USTUR
   provides an independent review of two-year appointment. the work in
   progress and envisioned. (Isabel.Fisenne@eml.doe.gov) EML, in
   cooperation with the National the area contaminated by the Chernobyl
   IAEA Fellowship Research Council, provides training for accident were
   analyzed for 238Pu, 239/240Pu, Cooperative Research recipients of
   fellowships sponsored by the 241Am, and 90Sr. The results of the
   analyses EM IAEA. A fellow from the Research Institute provided the RIR
   scientists estimates of cur- of Radiology (RIR) in Gomel, Belarus spent
   rent actinide levels in the regions affected by three months at EML in
   training for the evalu- the Chernobyl fallout. The data will be used to
   ation of environmental levels of selected alpha re-evaluate the
   sampling protocol of Belarus and beta emitting radionuclides. In FY
   2001, soils, and the existing methodology for 90Sr two sample sets from
   different regions within measurements. (Anna.Berne@eml.doe.gov) 22
   Awards and Recognition Dr. Hsi-Na (Sam) Lee of EML was EML Scientist
   Receives sponsored by the Science and Technology Japanese Research
   Agency in Japan, under the research award, Award "Foreign specialists
   in the comprehensive, basic study field of atomic energy," to visit
   research institutes in Japan from March 5 - 24, 2001. As part of the
   research award for visiting scholars, Dr. Lee worked with scien- tists
   at the Meteorological Research Institute (MRI) to improve their model
   calculations on the fate and transport of atmospheric radionu- Visit to
   the National Institute of Radiological clides and Asian dust. Improved
   modeling with Sciences (left to right: Dr. Yuji Yamada, a resuspension
   component will be important to Section Head, Dr. Lee, Dr. Shinji
   Tokonami, sites in the DOE complex, particularly those in and Dr.
   Yasuhito Igarashi) the dryer regions such as Rocky Flats and the Nevada
   Test Site. Collaborations between EML and MRI will continue in FY 2002.
   Dr. Burton Bennett was elected Chairman manages the United States
   funding for the EML Scientist Named of RERF at the annual Board of
   Governor's project through its contractor, the National Chairman of
   Radiation Meeting held in Hiroshima, Japan, May Academy of Sciences.
   Dr. Bennett has over Effects Research 26-27, 2001. RERF is the joint
   United 20 years international experience with the Foundation (RERF)
   States-Japanese study of the health effects United Nations, including
   12 years as of radiation in those exposed to the atomic Director of the
   Secretariat of the United bombings. Dr. Bennett is the 5th Chairman
   Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects and the first American to
   hold the position of Radiation, prior to rejoining EML last since the
   Foundation was formed in 1975 August. Dr. Bennett left government
   service as the successor organization to the Atomic to take up the
   position at RERF in Bomb Casualty commission. DOE (EH-6) Hiroshima,
   Japan, on July 1, 2001. Ms. Ada Kong was elected President of
   conjunction with the 49th American Society EML Chemist Elected as CASMS
   at the May 2001 meeting attended of Mass Spectrometry Conference in
   Chicago, President of Chinese by 180 members. This meeting was held in
   Illinois. Ms. Kong will serve a two-year term. American Society of Mass
   Spectrometry (CASMS) Dr. Carl V. Gogolak was elected a Fellow of
   contributions to the profession of health EML Scientist Elected a the
   Health Physics Society. This award is physics. The Award Certificate
   was presented Fellow of the Health given to senior members of the
   Health at the Awards Luncheon at the Health Physics Society Physics
   Society in recognition of significant Physics Society Annual Meeting in
   administrative, educational, and/or scientific Cleveland, Ohio, on June
   12, 2001. 23 Annual Meeting The theme of the 2001 meeting of the
   National Council of Radiation of the NCRP Protection and Measurement
   (NCRP) was "Fallout From Atmospheric Nuclear Tests: Impact on Science
   and Society." This meeting marked 50 years since the beginning of
   global fallout monitoring. EML made significant contributions to the
   meeting and both current and former staff participation attested to the
   prominent role that the Laboratory has played in fallout studies over
   the past half century. EML staff authored or co-authored three separate
   invited papers for the meeting. Dr. Burton Bennett of EML served as a
   member of the Program Committee and was a Session Chairman. 24 Mitchell
   D. Erickson, Director Phone: (212) 620-3619 FAX: (212) 620-3651 E-mail:
   Mitchell.Erickson@eml.doe.gov EML Web Page: http://www.eml.doe.gov
   Environmental Measurements Laboratory, Office of Environmental
   Management, OST U.S. Department of Energy 201 Varick Street, 5th Floor
   New York, NY 10014-4811
