http://hartford.gov/General_info/root/


    HARTFORD
       .GOV

              City of Hartford Sky Line - Original Photograph by Robert Benson :
                                                 Digitaly Enhanced by David Tolo

  General Info

          Home Government Services Directory News & Events Maps Search



                            Translate this page/
                            Traduzca esta pagina

                                  FOUNDERS
                              WHERE IS HARTFORD
                              SOME DEMOGRAPHICS

                                 GOVERNMENT

                               MAJOR EMPLOYERS

                               GETTING AROUND/
                               TRANSPORTATION
                               QUALITY OF LIFE

                              HARTFORD NOTABLES

                    FAMOUS PERSONS WHO LIVED IN HARTFORD
                          YOU MUST BE HUNGRY BY NOW


                               Today's Weather

                             GENERAL INFORMATION

     "Of all the beautiful towns it has been my fortune to see, this is
                         the chief.”  --Mark Twain

                                ~ FOUNDERS ~

   [blebul1a.gif] Dutch mariner Adraien Block was the first to explore the
   area in 1614.  The "House of Hope" fort and trading post was
   established in 1633.  Hartford, originally called "Newtown" was settled
   in 1635 by John Steel and Samuel Stone followed by Rev. Thomas Hooker
   and his congregation in 1636.
   [blebul1a.gif] The name Hartford comes from ‘Samuel Stone’s birthplace:
   Hertford, England.
   [blebul1a.gif] The Fundamental Orders, considered the first
   constitution (hence why Connecticut is called the "Constitution State")
   were written to govern Hartford in 1639.  Also see the legend of " THE
   CHARTER OAK."
   [blebul1a.gif] Hartford was incorporated in 1784.
   [blebul1a.gif] Hartford is the capital of Connecticut. For more info go
   to "HISTORY"

                            ~ WHERE IS HARTFORD ~

   [blebul1a.gif]  Located along the western side of the Connecticut
   River, the City is approximately six (6) miles from north to south,
   and, approximately three (3) miles from east to west. Hartford is 100
   miles from both Boston (to the east) and New York City (to the
   south).   For more info go to "MAP"

                            ~ SOME DEMOGRAPHICS ~

   [blebul1a.gif] The Population of Hartford is 124,121 per the 2000
   Census.
   [blebul1a.gif] Average Household Income in Hartford is estimated at
   $34,967 (1998 Claritas study). The capital region which includes
   Hartford is the 13th most prosperous in the nation.
   [blebul1a.gif] Median Age in Hartford is 30.4 years (1997 Claritas
   study).
   [blebul1a.gif] Literacy – High School Graduate or Higher:  60.4% of
   Hartford residents and 80.2% of Hartford Metropolitan Area residents
   have completed high school or higher. Hartford is home to: Trinity
   College, UCONN Law School, University of Hartford, Rensselaer Graduate
   Institute and Capital Community College. There are three public high
   schools, three middle schools, and 27 grammar schools; a Performing
   Arts Academy; a Sports Science Academy; a Montessori School and several
   Head-start centers as well as many private schools of various types.
   For more info go to "EDUCATION"
   [blebul1a.gif] Race/Ethnicity:  The City of Hartford is approximately
   38% Black (mostly African-American with a small, but significant
   population of West Indian Americans); 39% Hispanic/Latino (mostly
   Puerto Rican American with a small population of Cuban and other Latin
   Americans); 22% White (mostly of western European heritage).  There is
   also a small population (1%) of Asian, American Indians, and Pacific
   islanders. (1998 Claritas Study.

                                ~GOVERNMENT~

   [blebul1a.gif]

   Form Of Government:  The City of Hartford has had a council-manager
   form of government since 1947 with an elected Mayor and Treasurer and
   nine (9) council members. Terms of office are two years. Elections are
   held in odd years.  No more than six members may be from the same
   party. The City Manager is appointed by the Court of Common
   Council. For more info go to "GOVERNMENT"
   [blebul1a.gif]

   Budget:  The city budget for 2001-2002 including grants and other funds
   is $483.7 million of which $249.9 million is budgeted for
   schools/education. (Most of the $249.9 million comes from state aid for
   education). For more info go to  City Budget.

                                 top of page

                              ~MAJOR EMPLOYERS~

   [blebul1a.gif] Hartford is known as the insurance capital of the world.
   The first insurance company (Hartford Fire Insurance Company) was
   established in 1794. Several major insurance companies are
   headquartered in the city: Aetna, Cigna, Hartford Steam Boiler, The
   Hartford, Lincoln, Mass. Mutual, Phoenix, and Travelers (CitiCorp.) as
   well as others. Financial institutions and firms are another major
   employer in Hartford along with utility companies, government,
   hospital/healthcare, real estate and law firms. Other notable employers
   are technology (United Technologies Corp. is headquartered in
   Hartford), manufacturing, construction, hotel and food service. For the
   last two consecutive years (1999 and 2000)  Hartford is the only city
   in the Northeast to rank in the top 30 real estate markets for business
   attraction (17th place which is within the top 10% nationwide) per
   "Expansion Management Magazine."   For more info go to "BUSINESS"
   [blebul1a.gif] Unemployment Rates:  As of August 2001 the unemployment
   rate for the city of Hartford was 6.4%; for the Greater Hartford Labor
   Area, 3.4%; and for the state of Connecticut, 3.4%.

                      ~ GETTING AROUND/TRANSPORTATION ~

   [blebul1a.gif]

   Hartford is served by AMTRAK trains, several interstate bus companies
   and local bus service (CT. Transit Authority).
   [blebul1a.gif]

   Major highways through Hartford include I-91 (north and south); I-84
   (east and west); RT. 2 (east/west).
   [blebul1a.gif]

   An inner city/downtown circuit line is scheduled to be implemented in
   2002.
   [blebul1a.gif] The "Dial a Ride" program administered by the City
   provides rides to elderly and disabled residents.
   [blebul1a.gif] Bradley International Airport is approximately 20
   minutes north of Hartford via I-91.
   [blebul1a.gif] Brainard Airport in the southeast area of the City
   provides regional air service as well as corporate and private air
   travel.

                             ~ QUALITY OF LIFE ~

     "If you don't like the weather in New England, wait five minutes."
                                  --Unknown

   [blebul1a.gif] Accessibility: Most municipal buildings are accessible,
   with curb cuts at most intersections in the downtown and throughout the
   various residential areas. Connecticut Transit buses are equipped with
   lifts and there is an ADA Paratransit system available through the
   Greater Hartford Transit District.  For more info about accessibility
   in Hartford go to the Office of Human Relations or Ct. Transit
   Authority.
   [blebul1a.gif] Arts and Attractions: Hartford has long been known for
   its arts and recently ranked among the top 20 best cities for the arts
   by "Places Rated Almanac."  Many Broadway shows had their premier in
   Hartford.  Today there are two professional theatres and several
   semi-professional and amateur theatre companies in the city. The
   Bushnell Auditorium regularly presents Broadway shows, opera, ballet,
   symphony, etc. The Wadsworth Atheneum, the oldest public art museum in
   the country, is a  well respected fine arts museum (one of the top ten
   in the country). There are also many art galleries and spaces
   throughout the city.  The Artists Collective just opened a new
   multi-arts facility that includes classes for all ages with a special
   emphasis on African-American music and dance. Guakia, Inc. specializes
   in Latino arts, and, Real Art Ways is an alternative arts center.
   Other major attractions in Hartford are:  Bushnell Park where the
   Soldiers And Sailors Memorial Arch and the Carousel are located; the
   Old State House Museum;  the Mark Twain and Harriet Beecher Stowe
   houses ("Nook Farm"); the State Capitol; and the Elizabeth Park Rose
   Garden.  For more info on arts, entertainment and related, go to
   "ATTRACTIONS"
   [blebul1a.gif] Climate:  Temperatures range from average highs in the
   20’s and 30’s (°F) in December, January, and February, to average highs
   in the 70’s and 80’s in June, July and August. Snow is common in the
   months of December through March. For more info go to "Weather Channel"
   [blebul1a.gif] Drinking Water: Provided to all properties through the
   Metropolitan District Commission, which operates several reservoirs in
   Hartford county. All properties in the City are connected to the public
   sewer system as well.
   [blebul1a.gif] Festivals and Parades:  There are many festivals and
   parades held in the city annually and especially throughout the
   summer.  Some of the most notable are:  the African-American Parade and
   Festival (end of September); the Fourth of July Riverfest; the Jazz
   Festival (mid-late July); Mark Twain Days (Labor Day Weekend); the
   Puerto Rican Day Parade and Festival; St. Patrick's Day Parade;
   Columbus Day Parade(October); the Italian Festa (Columbus Day weekend);
   the Greek Festival (June); the West Indian Parade and Festival (week
   long festival in late July-August); CT. P.R.I.D.E. Parade and Festival
   (September); the Thomas Hooker Day Parade (early October); the Festival
   of Lights (day after Thanksgiving thru New Year's); and First Night
   (New Year's Eve). For more info go to News & Events.
   [blebul1a.gif] Hospitals: The City is served by two major hospitals:
   Hartford Hospital just south of downtown and Saint Francis Hospital in
   the west end.  (Mt. Sinai Hospital in the north end of Hartford has
   been acquired by St. Francis Hospital and provides limited services).
   The University of Connecticut - Dempsey Hospital located 15 minutes
   outside of Hartford also serves Hartford residents.  The Community
   Health Services Clinic on Albany Avenue, just north of downtown
   provides outpatient and preventive care.  For more info go to Health
   Department
   [blebul1a.gif] Housing: There are over 50,000 units of housing in the
   City within approximately 15,000 structures.  House prices currently
   run from under $100,000 for smaller single family homes in average
   condition to over $300,000 for higher end homes. There are a few
   hundred estate homes in the over $400,000 to $2,000,000 category. There
   is a wide range of condominiums, mostly one-two bedrooms, and, a large
   stock of rental units located within two-three family structures and
   larger apartment buildings/complexes. Average rent for a two-bedroom
   apartment with heat ranges from $600 - $800.  For more info on Housing
   Programs offered by the City,   go to Housing and Community Development
   Department.
   [blebul1a.gif] Library: In addition to the main library downtown, there
   are nine(9) branch libraries throughout the city, a library on wheels,
   and services for shut-ins.  For more info go to Hartford Public
   Library. Also go to Connecticut State Library or UCONN Law Library,
   both located in Hartford.
   [blebul1a.gif] Neighborhoods:  Hartford has many diverse neighborhoods,
   each with its own neighborhood market/commercial district.  Foods and
   goods from all over the world can be found in the various neighborhoods
   throughout the city. Most neighborhoods have active neighborhood
   organizations that work to maintain the integrity and character of the
   neighborhood, preserve significant historic features, and insure
   quality of life for all.   For more info go to Neighborhoods.
   [blebul1a.gif] Newspapers:  The Hartford Courant (the oldest
   continuously published paper in the country) is the major daily
   newspaper in  Hartford. There are, however, several weekly papers
   covering news of interest to residents and also arts and
   entertainment:  The Hartford Advocate; The Hartford News (including a
   Spanish section); The Hartford Inquirer; The Northend Agent; The
   Westender.  Also, The West Indian News and Hartford! (an arts and
   entertainment magazine) which are published monthly.
   [blebul1a.gif] Parks and Recreation: Hartford has many public parks
   including six major parks and two public golf courses, one of which in
   Keney Park, was recently rated as the 13^th best course in the central
   Connecticut area. Bushnell Park in downtown Hartford is the oldest
   public park in America and was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted who
   designed Central Park in New York City and Boston's "emerald
   necklace."  The Rose Garden in Elizabeth Park is the third largest in
   the U.S. with 15,000 roses. The City also has three riverfront parks
   with boat docks/launches on the Connecticut River which was recently
   designated as an American Heritage River.  For more info go to
   Riverfront Recapture or Parks and Recreation Division.
   [blebul1a.gif] Public Safety: There are 12 fire stations, 386
   Firefighters, 5 first line fire trucks, 11 first line fire engines, one
   tactical unit; average response time is 4.4 minutes.  Hartford has 460
   sworn Police Officers, a Bomb Squad, a Mounted unit and a K-9
   unit.  The department employs the Community Service Oriented concept of
   policing and several neighborhoods have Community Service Officers
   assigned specifically to them. For more info go to Fire or Police.
   [blebul1a.gif] Sanitation:  The City collects garbage and recyclables
   weekly at no charge to residents; (more often in certain areas).  For
   more info go to Public Works Department.
   [blebul1a.gif] Shopping:  Pratt Street, Main Street, and Asylum Street
   are the main locations for shopping in downtown Hartford. There are
   also many small boutique style shops in the various neighborhoods
   especially on Park Street, Albany Avenue, Franklin Avenue, Farmington
   Ave, to name a few.  The Wadsworth Atheneum Museum and the Old State
   House Museum also have great gift shops.  For those who can't survive
   without those large indoor shopping malls, there are several within
   minutes of Hartford.
   [blebul1a.gif] Sports:  Hartford has two professional sports teams:
   Hartford Wolf Pack, hockey (winner of the Calder Cup 2000) and Hartford
   Sea Wolves, arena football.  Hartford also has professional and amateur
   boxing, a soccer league, a cricket team, a track club, an annual
   marathon, and is in negotiations/planning for a minor league baseball
   team/stadium.  College basketball is also played in the Civic Center &
   local colleges.  UCONN Huskies won the NCAA Women’s Championship in
   2000. For more info go to “ATTRACTIONS" or Parks and Recreation
   Division.
   [blebul1a.gif] Taxes: The mill rate in Hartford for 2000-2001 is 48
   mills for real property and personal property such as vehicles,
   business equipment, etc. However, due to state legislative relief all
   residential properties consisting of one – three units are taxed
   substantially lower (mid 20’s mill rate equivalent). All property is
   assessed at 70% of fair market value. The last revaluation was in
   1999.  Low-income elderly, veterans, blind, and disabled also  pay
   lower taxes and there is a rebate program for low income elderly
   renters.  There are no county taxes in Connecticut, nor city or county
   income tax. The state income tax is 3 - 4.5%; however credit is given
   for some of the property taxes paid to cities and towns, so the net
   state income tax is usually less. There are also many exemptions for
   businesses. Both the city and the state also offer many incentives for
   businesses. For more info go to Assessor Department.
   [blebul1a.gif] Utilities:  Major utilities available to residents and
   businesses include electric, natural gas, cable TV and telephone.  Many
   properties are also heated with oil, which is delivered by truck.
   Kerosene heaters are not allowed in the city; fireplaces and wood
   stoves are allowed.

                                 top of page

                             ~HARTFORD NOTABLES~

   The Old State House, 800 Main Street, is the oldest state house in the
                                  country.

       The Hartford Courant, founded in 1764, is the oldest continuous
   newspaper in the country.  Hannah Bunce Watson Hudson, the first female
     publisher of the Hartford Courant kept the paper running during the
       Revolutionary war and is buried in Old South Burying Ground in
                                  Hartford.

    The Wadsworth Atheneum Art Museum is the oldest public art museum in
                                the country.

     Fredrick Law Olmsted who designed Central Park in New York City and
       Boston's "emerald necklace" designed Bushnell Park in downtown
          Hartford.  Bushnell Park is America's oldest public park.

   The Rose Garden in Elizabeth Park is the first municipal rose garden in
           the United States and is the third largest with 15,000
               roses/900varieties and an antique rose garden.

    The Travelers Insurance Company Tower Building at 740 Main Street is
    New England's first skyscraper; its beacon has been a landmark since
    1936.  The building also sits on the site where the original Charter
   mysteriously disappeared when candles suddenly blew out before it could
       be rescinded by King James.  The Charter was then hidden in the
                "Charter Oak" tree a few blocks to the south.

     The Aetna Insurance Company headquarters building at 151 Farmington
         Avenue is the largest brick colonial structure in the U.S.

   The Phoenix Insurance Company headquarters building (known as the "boat
   building") is the world's first two sided building.  This 1960's glass
       and steel structure faces the river and is connected to the new
                         Riverfront Plaza downtown.

   The State Capitol in Hartford is one of few in the country with a gold
               dome; the interior is also well worth a visit.

     Bushnell Tower Condominium building at the corner of Main and Gold
                      Streets was designed by I.M. Pei.
    Alexander Calder's sculpture "Stegosaurus" (the original three story
   tall version) is located in Hartford between the Wadsworth Atheneum and
      City Hall.  Recently, a smaller version of the sculpture known as
          "Little Stego" sold at auction for $3.4 million dollars.

                               ~More Notables~
                            (Also go to HISTORY)

                   ~FAMOUS PERSONS WHO LIVED IN HARTFORD~

                         MARK TWAIN (SAMUEL CLEMENS)

                            HARRIET BEECHER STOWE

                            WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS

                       LYDIA HUNTLEY SIGOURNEY (POET)

                              KATHERINE HEPBURN

                            FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED

                WALLACE STEVENS (PULITZER PRIZE WINNING POET)

                                 J.P. MORGAN

          LAURA WHEELING WARING (AFRICAN AMERICAN PORTRAIT ARTIST)

                  WILLIAM GILLETTE (PLAYED SHERLOCK HOLMES)

   HORACE WELLS (INVENTED ANESTHESIA AND MODEL FOR DR. JECKYL AND MR. HYDE
                                   NOVEL)

                 SAMUEL MORSE (INVENTED MORSE CODE/MACHINE)

           JUPITER HAMMOND (FIRST PUBLISHED AFRICAN AMERICAN POET)

                                SOPHIE TUCKER

                      NOAH WEBSTER (WEBSTER DICTIONARY)

                           JOHN TRUMBULL (ARTIST)

               CHARLES ETHAN PORTER (AFRICAN AMERICAN ARTIST)

                         SAMUEL COLT (COLT FIREARMS)

             EDWARD ALBEE (PLAYWRIGHT; ATTENDED TRINITY COLLEGE)

                         ~YOU MUST BE HUNGRY BY NOW~

   Hartford has hundreds of great restaurants for all tastes and budgets.
   Especially of note are the many ethnic eateries which include:  Afghan,
   African-American, Asian (Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Vietnamese, Thai),
      Brazilian, Caribbean,  Ethiopian, Greek, Indian, Irish, Italian,
   Jamaican, Latin American, Middle Eastern, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish,
      West Indian, and more.  Steak, seafood and continental as well as
   French and nouvelle cuisine can also be readily found.  Lots of places
   to eat for vegetarians, too!  For complete list go to Hartford Advocate
                             or Enjoy Hartford.

                                 top of page

       [Neighborhoods] [History] [Attractions] [Libraries] [Education]
                  [Business] [General Info] [Photo Gallery]



                 Translate this page / Traduzca esta pagina

   Small Seal of The City of Hartford. The Seal features the hart fording
    a stream and the words "POST NUBILA PHOEBUS" ("AFTER THE CLOUDS, THE
                                    SUN")

                              CITY OF HARTFORD
                               550 Main Street
                         Hartford, Connecticut 06103
                                (860)522-4888
                     Email: Webmaster@ci.hartford.ct.us

                                 Disclaimer
                    Painting of The Historic Charter Oak
                               The Charter Oak
