http://www.bt.cdc.gov/Mail/MailHandlers.asp

   Skip Navigation Links

   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   Public Health/Bioterrorism Preparedness & Response
   Site-wide Links


                Department of Health and Human Services - USA
   Agents & Threats
   Biological (listing)
   Chemical (listing)
   Radiological Emergencies
   Site Topics
   Preparation & Planning
   Emergency Response
   Lab Information
   Surveillance
   Media & Press Center
   Training
   Resources/Links
   En Español
   Página Principal del Terrorismo Biológico
   Public Inquiries
   English (888) 246-2675
   Español (888) 246-2857
   Mon-Fri 8am-11pm EST
   Sat-Sun 10am-8pm EST
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   1600 Clifton Rd.
   Atlanta, GA 30333
   U.S.A
   (404) 639-3311
   FirstGov
   Mail Handlers
   Get more detailed information information, in the Lab & Health
   Professionals area
   FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions)

   • Anthrax and the Mail
     Cross-contamination, handling your mail…
   • Signs and Symptoms
     What you should look for…
   • Anthrax and Influenza
     Differences, symptoms, quick tests…
   • Exposure
     Being exposed vs. being sick, suspicious mail, powders, protecting your
     family…
   • Risk
     Chances of getting sick, pregnancy…
   • Diagnosis
     Detecting anthrax, tests, nasal swabs…
   • Treatment
     Side effects, antibiotics…
   • Preventive Therapy
     Cipro, storing antibiotics…
   • Testing
     Effectiveness, home test kits, getting screened…
   • Vaccine
     Availability, getting vaccinated…
   • Definition
     What anthrax is, case definition…
   • Sources
     Genetic sources of anthrax, importance of knowing sources…
   • History
     Previous cases…
   • Reporting
     Letting authorities know…
   • Response
     CDC's role, approach to response and cleanup…
   • Worker Safety
     Guidelines, protective equipment…
   • Laboratory Safety
     Keeping lab workers safe…
   Fact Sheets and Overviews

   • Facts About Anthrax
     Brief overview of anthrax including symptoms, exposure, and treatment.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (75 KB)
     Microsoft Word document (20 KB)
   • Anthrax Fact Sheet
     Provided by the Center for Civilian Biodefense Studies, Johns Hopkins
     University.
   Handling Mail

   • Video: Protecting Your Health for People Who Process, Sort, and
     Deliver the Mail
     Educational video includes basic information about anthrax, strategies
     for protecting workers from anthrax exposures, and methods for
     detecting and responding to a suspicious letter or package.
   • Protecting Workers from Exposure to Anthrax (Bacillus anthracis) in
     Work Sites Where Mail is Handled or Processed
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (156 KB)
     Microsoft Word document (30 KB)
   • How to Recognize and Handle a Suspicious Package or Envelope
     Updated 10/31/01
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (96 KB)
     Microsoft Word document (24 KB)
   • CDC Statement Regarding the Washington, DC, Processing and
     Distribution Center and Postal and Mailroom Facilities that Directly
     Receive and Distribute Mail from this Center
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (78 KB)
     Microsoft Word document (21 KB)
   Antibiotics/Vaccinations for Anthrax Exposure

   • Treatment Options for Postal and Other Workers Exposed to Anthrax
     For postal and other workers. Reviews options for people exposed to
     airborne anthrax spores, who may be at risk for inhalational anthrax.
     Archived webcast provided by University of North Carolina School of
     Public Health, plus online presentation.
   • Anthrax Vaccinations
     Health and Human Services statement
   • Patient Information: Ciprofloxacin
     General information, including side-effects and drug and food
     interaction warnings.
   • Patient Information: Doxycycline
     General information, including side-effects and drug and food
     interaction warnings.
   Get more detailed information information, in the Lab & Health
   Professionals area
   News and Investigations

   •

     Anthrax Vaccinations
     Health and Human Services statement
   •

     New Video
     Protecting Your Health for People Who Process, Sort, and Deliver the
     Mail
   Related Resources

   • Anthrax in the Workplace (OSHA)
   • U.S. Postal Service

   Top of Page

   PHEPR Home | Lab & Health Professionals | About | FAQ | Contact Us

   CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

   In general all information presented in these pages and all items
   available for download are for public use. However, you may encounter
   some pages that require a login password and id. If this is the case
   you may assume that information presented and items available for
   download therein are for your authorized access only and not for
   redistribution by you unless you are otherwise informed.
   Content-related questions should be directed to: Content Administrator
   Site-related questions should be directed to: Webmaster
   This page last reviewed:
   Privacy Policy | Accessibility
   ** Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 may be required for large documents**
