http://www.fossil.energy.gov/general/privacy.shtml

   DOE Fossil Energy Web Site

   -
    Ribbon - Support for U.S. Response to Terrorism
                                                   -
                                                    SUPPORT
                                                    FOR FREEDOM'S
                                                    RESPONSE

   SEARCH THIS SITE
   -

   - Fossil Energy Web Site - - -
   - -   Electric Power R&D | Oil/Gas R&D | Fuels R&D | Oil Reserves |
   Electricity Regulation | Gas Regulation
   -
   - - - - -


                   [spacer.gif]
   -               HOME PAGE
   [arrow_off.gif] NEWS
   -               BUSINESS
   -               BUDGET
   -               R&D PROJECTS
   -               PUBLICATIONS
   -               EVENTS/REMARKS
   -               INTERNATIONAL
   -               FOR STUDENTS

   Register for E-Mail Alerts

   - ABOUT US
   - HOW TO
     CONTACT US
   - PRIVACY &
     SECURITY
   - INDEX

   -
    Privacy and Security Notice
                               - -

   -
   -
    -

    Privacy Policy

    We collect no personal information about you when you visit
    www.fe.doe.gov unless you choose to provide this information to us.
    However, we collect and store certain information automatically. We
    collect and store automatically:
      * the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you
        access the Internet (i.e. 123.456.789.012) whether yours
        individually or provided as a proxy by your Internet Service
        Provider (ISP)
      * the date and time you access our site
      * the pages you peruse (recorded by the text and graphics files that
        compose that page)
      * and, the Internet address of the Website from which you linked
        directly to our site.

    We use this information to count the number and types of visitors who
    use our site, how our pages and links are used and, ultimately, to help
    us make our site more useful to you.

    This information is NOT shared with anyone beyond the support staff to
    this home page, except when required by law enforcement investigation,
    and is used only as a source of anonymous statistical information.

    Security Notice

    This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
    Federal functions. The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
    security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
    protect information in the system. By accessing this web site, you are
    expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

    Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
    the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
    authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
    information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
    is prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
    enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
    Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
    Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996, codified at section 1030 of
    Title 18 of the United States Code, or other applicable criminal laws.
                                                                           -
                                                                           -
   -

   This site is maintained by the Office of Fossil Energy, U.S. Department
   of Energy, Washington, DC, 20585
   General e-mail: fewebmaster@hq.doe.gov | Technical questions about web
   site: fewebsupport@hq.doe.gov
   For disabled users: If you have difficulty accessing this page, please
   call (202) 586-6503.
