http://enews.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/ALS-kinky-conductors.html


   Date

                                   January 14, 2002

                                              Date

   [pixel.gif] Berkeley Lab Science Beat Berkeley Lab Science Beat

   [pixel.gif] [bullet.gif] Getting kinky with high-temperature
                            superconductors
                            Contact: Lynn Yarris, lcyarris@lbl.gov


      Berkeley Lab Science Beat
      [pixel.gif]
      Lab website index
      [pixel.gif]
      Lawrence Berkeley National Lab home page
      [pixel.gif]

   Search Lab science articles archive

   ____________ Search Lab science articles archive
   [pixel.gif]

   A study at Berkeley Lab's Advanced Light Source (ALS) has revealed
   that, contrary to what many scientists have argued, the physics behind
   the high-temperature superconductivity of copper oxides may be every
   bit as kinky as that behind their low-temperature metal counterparts.

   Working with undulator light from ALS Beamline 10.0, an international
   collaboration led by Stanford University physicist Zhi-Xun Shen has
   identified a "kink" in the energy spectrum of low-energy electrons in
   three different families of copper oxide high-temperature
   superconductors. This spectral kink is the signature of an interaction
   or "coupling" between an electron and a phonon, a vibration in the ions
   that form the lattice of a superconductor's crystal. Electron-phonon
   coupling is behind the low-temperature superconductivity of metal
   alloys.


                              [shen-group.jpg]
      The team that found the "kink" in the spectra of high-temperature
   superconductors included (insert) Scot Kellar, (seated) Pavel Bogdanov
   and Alessandra Lanzara, and (back row from left) Wangli Yang, Xingjiang
          Zhou, Zahid Husssain, Zhi-Xun Shen, and Veronique Broet.

   "We see in all of these copper oxide materials an abrupt change of
   electron velocity at 50-80 meV" 혰 the kink in the spectrum 혰 "which we
   cannot explain by any known process other than the coupling with
   phonons," says Shen. "This suggests that electron-phonon coupling
   strongly influences the electron dynamics in high-temperature
   superconductors and must therefore be included in any microscopic
   theory of superconductivity."

   Superconductivity is a state in which a material loses all electrical
   resistance: once established, an electrical current will flow forever.
   Following the discovery in the 1950s of niobium-based metal alloys that
   become superconducting at temperatures around 18 degrees Kelvin (18 K),
   superconductivity has become a staple of high-tech magnet technology in
   scientific research. However, the cost and difficulty of chilling these
   metals with liquid helium limit their applications elsewhere.

   The discovery in the 1980s of ceramic copper oxides that become
   superconducting at temperatures above the 77 K boiling point of liquid
   nitrogen 혰 meaning they are much cheaper to chill than metals 혰 brought
   forth the tantalizing prospect of room temperature superconductors and
   their promise of such prizes as dirt-cheap electrical power and
   magnetically levitated high-speed trains. For this promise ever to be
   realized, however, scientists need a better understanding of the
   physics behind the superconductivity of these materials.

   The physics behind low-temperature superconductivity has been
   successfully explained by BCS theory, named for its Nobel-prize winning
   authors, John Bardeen, Leon Cooper, and Robert Schrieffer. BCS theory
   says that a superconductor loses electrical resistance through the
   formation of electron pairs, in which any motion on the part of one
   member of the pair instantly causes an equal countermotion in the
   other. This electron pairing cancels out any disruption in the flow of
   an electrical current caused by crystal impurities, a source of
   electrical resistance.

   Electrons that would naturally repel one another because of their
   mutual negative charge are able to pair up because of the interaction
   of one of them with a phonon, which can be thought of as a sort of
   atomic sound wave. The first electron alters the phonon, and the second
   electron is affected by this alteration, like passing ships influencing
   each other's motion through their effect on the surrounding waves.
   Scientists believe electron pairing is also behind the
   superconductivity of high-temperature superconductors; however, the
   prevailing thought has been that this pairing involves different
   physics, such as fluctuations of the magnetic spins of atomic nuclei,
   rather than electron-phonon coupling.


                                         [pixel.gif] [48vibrationfig1.jpg]
            [pixel.gif] Relationships of electron energy and momentum help
          scientists better understand the physics behind high-temperature
        superconductivity. In this raw ARPES data, photoemission intensity
   appears as a function of electron binding energy and electron momentum.

   "We would very much like for phonons not to be there. We have a
   completely new mechanism for high-temperature superconductivity that
   has nothing to do with phonons," Shen says. "However, our data suggest
   that the phonon is still a major player in high-temperature
   superconductivity."

   The team led by Shen, which included Berkeley Lab physicist Zahid
   Hussain and researchers with Stanford University and the University of
   Tokyo, conducted its study of the three families of copper oxide
   superconductors at the ALS using a technique called ARPES
   (angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy). With ARPES, light is
   flashed on a sample, causing electrons to be emitted through the
   photoelectric effect. Measuring the kinetic energy of emitted electrons
   and the angles at which they are ejected identifies their velocity and
   scattering rates. This in turn yields various energy spectra.

   By lighting their samples with the laserlike beams of photons generated
   at ALS beamline 10.0.1's undulator magnet, Shen and his colleagues
   obtained an angular resolution in their ARPES measurements that was an
   order of magnitude better than any previous experiments. The ability to
   fine-tune the energy of the undulator's photons made it possible for
   them to zero in on the electrons that are directly responsible for
   superconductivity and to plot energy spectral curves. The spectral
   curves revealed a kink shared by all the samples at an energy matching
   that of an oxygen phonon.

                         [48vibrationfigure2b.jpg]
    In these energy spectra, three different families of high-temperature
     superconductors all show a common "kink" (arrow) at the energy that
                         matches an oxygen phonon.

   "Until now there has been little direct evidence for electron-phonon
   coupling in high-temperature superconductors," says Shen. "This was a
   hard job and we were blessed with both the performance of the ALS and
   the amount of beam time made available to us."

   While the data gathered by Shen and his team indicate that phonons
   strongly influence the motion of electrons in high-temperature
   superconductors, it is still not clear to what extent BCS theory can
   explain the physics involved. Shen and his colleagues are already
   planning new experiments to help answer this question but, in the
   meantime, they expect their finding will "stimulate more work" for the
   theorists.

   In addition to Shen and Hussain, other U.S. members of the discovery
   team were Stanford University's Alessandra Lanzara, Pavel Bogdanov,
   Xingjiang Zhou, Scot Kellar, and Donglai Feng, plus former ALS staffer
   Erdong Lu.

   Additional information:

     * More about Z.X. Shen and ARPES research group
     * More about the Advanced Light Source
