http://education.nasa.gov/contactall.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

                                NASA Education Contacts

     Contact a NASA Representative
     * NASA Headquarters Education Directory -provides contact information
       for NASA's Education Division staff located in Washington, D.C.
     * NASA Field Center Education Directors - provides contact
       information for each of NASA's Field Center Education Directors
       located around the United States.
     * NASA Field Center PreCollege Contacts - provides contact
       information for each of NASA's Field Center Pre-College Officers
       (Grades K-12) located around the United States.
     * NASA Field Center Higher Education Contacts - provides contact
       information for each of NASA's Field Center University Affairs
       Officers located around the United States.
          + University Program Management Information System 2000 - It is
            NASA policy that colleges and universities should be
            encouraged to participate in the nation's space and
            aeronautics program to the maximum extent practicable. This
            publication contains agreements with Colleges and
            Universities; it allows Researchers to discover what
            colleagues are doing in similar fields, via a short
            description. It also lets the community know who is the NASA
            Technical Officers involved at each center as well as the
            dollar amounts involved for each agreement. Other items
            featured are charts, dollar summaries by state, and other
            summary data.
            The Univ_Prgm_Mgmt_Info_Sys_2000.pdf has been prepared using
            Adobe Acrobat and requires the Acrobat Reader software to
            view. [getacro.gif]
     * NASA Educator Resource Centers - are located on or near NASA Field
       Centers, museums, colleges, or other nonprofit organizations. The
       ERC's provide educators with inservice and preservice training,
       demonstrations, and access to NASA instructional products.
     * NASA's Space Grant College and Fellowship Program - contributes to
       the nation's science enterprise by funding research, education, and
       public service projects through a national network of 52
       university-based Space Grant consortia.
     * NASA's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research
       (EPSCoR) -program targets states of modest research infrastructure
       with funds to develop a more competitive research base within their
       member academic institutions.
     * NASA's Minority University Research and Education Program (MURED) -
       NASA's Office of Equal Opportunity Programs established the
       Minority University Research and Education Division (MURED) to
       increase the Agency's responsiveness to Federal mandates related to
       Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Other
       Minority Universities (OMUs), including Hispanic Serving
       Institutions and Tribal Colleges and Universities.
     * NASA's Strategic Enterprises -NASA's overall program, as outlined
       in the agency's Strategic Plan, is comprised of five Strategic
       Enterprises. Each enterprise covers a major area of the agency's
       research and development efforts. The five NASA enterprises are
       Aerospace Technology, Biological and Physical Research, Earth
       Science, Space Science, and the Human Exploration and Development
       of Space.
     * The NASA State Directory - provides contact information for NASA
       related programs, resources, and alliances within each of the 50
       United States, and the territories of Guam, Puerto Rico, and the
       Virgin Islands.

     Other Points of Contact
     * NASA's National Aerospace Education Alliance - NASA's Education
       Division has teamed with seven Aerospace Alliance partners that
       work to advance educational opportunities for the entire
       educational community. In this area you will find links to these
       seven organizations that work in association with NASA at the
       national level.
     * National Associations - NASA has many working relationships and
       agreements to advance educational opportunities. In this area you
       will find links to organizations that work in association with NASA
       at the national level.
     * Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA) Aviation Education - The
       Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA) offers a wide range of
       exciting aviation-related educational opportunities for educators
       and students. Visit the EAA's website to learn how you can take
       part in these innovative and informative programs.

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
        NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Center Education Web Sites
