http://www.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/MSD-granular-superconductor.html


   [datebox.gif] January 23, 2002 [datebox.gif]

   [pixel.gif] Berkeley Lab Research News

   [pixel.gif]

   DISORDERLY SUPERCONDUCTORS CAUGHT IN THE ACT

   Atom by atom, researchers track down granularity in a high-temperature
   superconductor
   Paul Preuss, (510) 486-6249, paul_preuss@lbl.gov


      Lab news releases
      [pixel.gif]
      Sign up to receive our news releases via email
      [pixel.gif]
      Science Beat: most recent science news here
      [pixel.gif]
      Berkeley Lab home page
      [pixel.gif]
      Lab A to Z website index
      [pixel.gif]

   Search news articles archive

   ____________ Search news stories
   [pixel.gif]

   BERKELEY, CA   Researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and
   the University of California at Berkeley have used scanning tunneling
   microscopy (STM) to make the first-ever nanometer-scale maps of
   "granular" superconductivity in a high-temperature superconductor. They
   verified their discovery with a second innovative use of STM, employing
   individual nickel atoms as probes to distinguish superconducting from
   nonsuperconducting regions in the material, Bi-2212, an important
   representative of the copper oxide superconductors.

   "In underdoped Bi-2212 we found nanoscale grains of apparent
   superconductivity embedded in an electronically distinct background,"
   says J. C. Séamus Davis of Berkeley Lab's Materials Sciences Division,
   a professor of physics at UC Berkeley. "Although this background state
   appears to be nonsuperconducting," he says, "macroscopic
   superconductivity may still occur through Josephson tunneling," a
   quantum-mechanical phenomenon.


                                              [pixel.gif] [gapmap_lrg.jpg]
     In an underdoped sample of Bi-2212, the scanning tunneling microscope
          reveals a "granular" distribution of low energy gap (conducting)
                                 regions against an insulating background.

   A major challenge to understanding the mysterious high-Tc
   superconductors is that superconducting, insulating, and other
   electronic states can exist in them cheek-by-jowl at the same time.
   Davis and his colleagues have shown that even a high-Tc superconductor
   with essentially perfect crystal structure can exhibit granular
   superconductivity, its regions of superconductivity spatially separated
   from one another. He and his coauthors announce their results in the 24
   January 2001 issue of the journal Nature.
   The difference that doping makes
   Davis explains that all the highest-temperature superconductors found
   so far are cuprate ceramics, with layers of copper and oxygen
   sandwiched between layers of other atoms like bismuth. "The cuprates
   are normally insulators, but some become superconducting if they are
   doped with other atoms. For example, additional oxygen can introduce
   positive charges or 'holes' into the copper-oxygen layers."

   A cuprate achieves its highest-temperature transition to the
   superconducting state with just the right amount of doping, different
   for each compound. When the cuprate is underdoped -- that is, if there
   are too few dopant atoms in the material -- theoreticians have long
   predicted that a phenomenon called "frustrated electronic phase
   separation" (FEPS) might occur.

   If this happens, regions of the sample develop different electronic
   phases even though they are separated from each other by mere nanoscale
   distances. Electronic phases like superconducting and insulating have
   been compared to different physical phases like liquid water and ice,
   or different chemical phases like oil and vinegar.

   There is significant evidence for nanoscale FEPS in some cuprates. When
   Joseph Orenstein of Berkeley Lab and UC Berkeley performed studies of
   the conductance of bulk high-Tc BSCCO -- a compound of bismuth,
   strontium, calcium, copper, and oxygen, of which Bi-2212
   (Bi[2]Sr[2]CaCu[2]O[8+delta]) is one type -- he and his colleagues
   found puzzling evidence of variation in the density of the
   superconducting electronic "fluid." (For additional information, see
   below.)

   One form of FEPS is the proposed "stripe phase," in which charge
   carriers are thought to flow along one-dimensional lines like rivers
   through insulating regions. "Another possibility is that
   superconducting domains are separated like islands in an insulating
   sea," says Davis, which could give rise to the kind of electronic
   granularity his group observed directly.

   Maps of gaps
   Davis's group cleaved perfect single crystals of B-2212, which split
   cleanly along the bismuth-oxygen plane lying immediately over the
   copper-oxygen plane. Their scanning tunneling microscope (STM) was able
   to image individual atoms in the plane; in ultra-high vacuum at very
   low temperature, the electronic states of the underlying copper-oxygen
   plane could also be sensed.

   As the probe tip scanned over the plane it measured differences in the
   current reaching the tip, a function of the voltage between the tip and
   the surface. Two kinds of regions of different conductance were
   revealed: alpha regions exhibited relatively small energy gaps, typical
   of superconductivity; beta regions had larger gaps.

   From these spectral scans, "gapmaps" were constructed showing that, in
   the underdoped crystal, the alpha regions were roughly circular areas
   less than three nanometers (billionths of a meter) across, separated
   from one another and surrounded by narrow beta regions approximately
   two nanometers wide.
                           [gapmap_sm.jpg]                           [pixel.gif]
  At high resolution, the roughly circular, low-energy-gap domains in
  underdoped Bi-2212 are seen to be less than three nanometers in
  diameter.

   In "as-grown," slightly overdoped crystals, however, this nanoscale
   segregation was not evident.

   "One question we couldn't answer with the initial STM spectra was
   whether the alpha regions really were superconducting," says Davis.
   "But we had recently developed a new atomic-scale tool, one we'd
   already used to study magnetic impurities in superconductors, that
   could address this question."

   Nickel atoms introduced into the copper-oxygen planes of Bi-2212 stand
   out because of the orientation of their surrounding clouds of charge:
   cross shapes reveal the density of negative charges -- electrons -- and
   x shapes that of positive charges -- holes. These patterns, or
   resonances, result when the impurity atom scatters entities known as
   quasiparticles.

   Quasiparticle symmetry holds the key
   Quasiparticles, which can be thought of as unpaired charge carriers, do
   not participate directly in superconductivity. Superconductivity is
   carried by pairs (Cooper pairs) of either electrons or holes;
   superconductivity in Bi-2212 and most other high-Tc superconductors is
   carried by holes.

   Quasiparticles too may be either particle-like or hole-like. An overall
   balance, or symmetry, between the particle-like and hole-like
   quasiparticle resonances created by impurity atoms is a requirement of
   local superconductivity.

   "Particle-hole symmetry of an impurity resonance indicates the
   superconducting state," says Davis. "It is predicted to decrease in
   other states and may disappear altogether in nonsuperconducting
   regions."

   The Davis team surveyed B-2212 crystals a second time with the STM,
   this time looking not for energy gaps but for the cross- and x-shaped
   resonances that were signatures of the individual nickel atoms they had
   introduced into the sample -- and signposts of the superconducting
   state. In the underdoped compound they found nickel impurities centered
   in alpha regions but none in beta regions.

   "A likely explanation is that nickel atoms are indeed present in other
   regions. But because these are not superconducting, there is no
   symmetrical particle-hole scattering to reveal the nickel impurities,"
   Davis says.

                                            [pixel.gif] [Ni-atom-dist.jpg]
          In superconducting regions, quasiparticle resonance peaks reveal
            nickel-atom impurities (red dots). Nickel atoms are presumably
     distributed throughout the sample, but no resonance peaks are visible
                                                    in insulating regions.

   Taken together, these two new STM techniques -- high-resolution
   spectral surveys, and use of impurity resonances as local markers of
   superconductivity --not only show that superconductivity is segregated
   into discrete domains in underdoped B-2212 but also strongly suggest
   that this material displays granular superconductivity due to
   frustrated electronic phase separation.

   "Since the domains are so close together," Davis says,
   "quantum-mechanical Josephson tunneling across the nonsuperconducting
   regions that separate them is probably what supports the long-range
   superconducting properties of this material."

   K.M. Lang, V. Madhavan, J. Hoffman, E.W. Hudson, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida,
   and J.C. Davis are the authors of "Using impurity atoms to search for
   granular superconductivity in underdoped Bi[2]Sr[2]CaCu[2]O[8+delta],"
   which appears in the 24 January 2002 issue of Nature.

   Kristine Lang, Vidya Madhavan, and Joan Hoffman are present members of
   the Davis group. Former member Eric Hudson is a National Research
   Council fellow at the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
   Shin-ichi Uchida, Davis's principal collaborator, is professor of
   physics at Tokyo University; he and his colleague Hiroshi Eisaki made
   essential materials available.

   The Berkeley Lab is a U.S. Department of Energy national laboratory
   located in Berkeley, California. It conducts unclassified scientific
   research and is managed by the University of California.

   Additional information:
     * More on Joseph Orenstein: pointing the way to granular
       superconductivity
     * More on the J. C. Davis group
