http://sdp.cit.nih.gov/open_agreements/bindview_desc.asp


   Skip Over Navigation Links
   Center for Information Technology Software Distribution Project
     Antivirus Home Page
   Contact Us
   Questions or Comments
   Disclaimers

      Information
   [1x1space.gif]
                  SDP Description
                  Contact Lookup
                  OEM Support
                  (Logon Required)
                  SPD Advisory Committee
      Open Agreements
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Absolute Description
                  Adobe Description
                  BindView Description
                  Macromedia Description
      Catalogs
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Abobe Catalog
                  Macromedia Catalog
      Software
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Downloads



   Absolute

   Manufacturer Overview

   BindView Corporation (http://www.bindview.com/), based in Houston,
   Texas, provides IT security and management solutions. They offer a
   suite of products for securing and administering applications and
   platforms including Microsoft Windows and Exchange solutions, Novell
   NDS and eDirectory, UNIX, SAP, and OS/400 systems. BindView also offers
   a solution for Internet Security.

   Products Overview

   The two core BindView product suites, bv-Control and bv-Admin, are
   available through this agreement. bv-Control and bv-Admin work together
   to provide a comprehensive security management solution by assessing,
   auditing, and administering IT environments according to corporate
   security policies. bv-Control provides security and configuration
   management including in-depth security and administrative analysis
   features. bv-Admin provides visibility and control of the entire
   network, including multi-directory environments, and allows
   administrators to distribute and revoke authorities responsibly and
   consistently.

   Product Audience

   The audience for these BindView products is network administrators and
   persons responsible for network security, including ISSOs and
   Admins/TLCs.

   Product Description

   bv-Control

   bv-Control cross-platform solutions can immediately detect
   vulnerabilities within the network and alert security and system
   administrators of any critical issues. Action can be taken to correct
   them before system downtime or performance issues are experienced.
   bv-Control solutions allow the user to:
     * Manage daily configuration and operational issues, including
       password policies, effective rights analysis, and user accounts
     * Get a robust reporting, analysis and correction engine
     * Reduce the downtime resulting from improperly configured servers,
       memberships, and security holes
     * Improve service levels by identifying and proactively correcting
       problems quickly and easily
     * Reduce the occurrence of unknown security breaches by providing a
       simple method to assess compliance with security policies across
       the directory
     * Leverage your existing technologies more effectively

   bv-Admin

   bv-Admin allows visibility and control of an entire network, not just a
   single technology or application. bv-Admin solutions offer:
     * Global Access
          + A single, easy-to-use console that offers a global view of the
            entire network - Windows NT, Windows 2000, Microsoft Exchange,
            and Novell eDirectory.
          + Offers flexibility with both customizable web-based and
            traditional Windows interfaces.
     * Role-Based Administration
          + Control rights and permissions based on what people need to
            accomplish.
          + Prevent errors and simplify control with consistent
            cross-system authority delegation models.
          + Speed grants and revocations of authority with Managed
            Collections - logical system-wide groups of resources.
     * Scripting and Automation
          + Automate routine and complex activities with a standards-based
            suite of COM-compatible scripting objects.
          + Extend scripting flexibility to non-programmers with an
            interactive script generation wizard.
     * Find-n-Fix
          + An interactive administrative wizard to find problems and fix
            them, all in a single step, so you can stop wasting time on
            routine tasks. The bv-Admin solution makes it easy to open up
            systems and resources yet maintain security at the same time
            by providing people with just the scope and degree of
            authority they need - and no more.

   bv-Admin also:
     * Reduces the need for dedicated and powerful domain administrators
     * Reduces the number of tools required to administer different
       operating systems and directories
     * Decreases security risks that occur when administrators have too
       much authority
     * Reduces time and effort required to perform migration to Windows
       2000
     * Simplifies the management of the environment in transition
     * Minimizes the impact of the migration process on end users
     * Automates complex and repetitive tasks with a powerful,
       non-proprietary scripting facility

   Agreement Eligibility

   The Agreement is available to all HHS employees. The major benefit of
   the agreement is that the licensing is focused on the client - you only
   need to license one copy of the console.

   Acquisition

   In order to receive the discounted pricing, the BindView products must
   be purchased from Daly Computers (http://www.daly.com/federal.htm) on
   their ECS-II contract.

   Contact

     Daly Computers
     Cindy Blaik, Federal Sales Rep
     cnb@daly.com
     301-670-0381 ext. 303
     301-963-1516 (fax)
     http://www.daly.com/federal.htm

   Contact TASC for assistance or call
   301.59.Go.CIT (V) 301.496.8294 (TDD)

   Questions or Comments | Disclaimers
   National Institutes of Health Center for Information Technology
   National Institutes of Health
   Bethesda, Maryland 20892
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   -
