http://lupus.gsfc.nasa.gov/core/final1.html

   CORE
   / IVN:

   Geodetic VLBI for the New Millennium


   C
   ontinuous

   O
   bservations

   of the

   R
   otation

   of the

   E
   arth


   using the


   I
   nternational

   V
   LBI

   N
   etwork



                                               Goddard Space Flight Center

                                                     Space Geodesy Program

                                                              June 2, 1997

   1. Summary

   This paper describes the program for continuous observations of the
   rotation of the Earth (CORE) initiated by the geodetic very long
   baseline interferometry (VLBI) community. The International VLBI
   Network (IVN) will execute the program using geodetic VLBI stations for
   data acquisition and VLBI analysis centers for data processing and
   analysis. The CORE program will evolve over the period 1997-2001.

   The CORE program will generate an Earth rotation data set of
   unprecedented time resolution and accuracy for Earth science and global
   change research. The program will produce basic observational data for
   studies of the continuous momentum exchange among the solid Earth, the
   atmosphere, and the hydrosphere, enabling exciting research areas that
   heretofore have been impossible.

   The full CORE program has the potential for a typical precision of
   1 msec in UT1 and 25 marcsec in pole position, for daily sessions with
   a 5-station network. These values are three times better than those
   measured weekly with the NEOS network and could be available daily.

   The breakthrough in the availability of continuous, high accuracy Earth
   rotation data is possible due to the Mark IV technology that will
   become fully available in 1999. Improved sensitivity in the Mark IV
   data acquisition system together with the high playback efficiency of
   the Mark IV correlator are both necessary to produce the proposed data.


   2. Scientific Objectives
   Figure 1. Geophysical Effects on UT1

   Earth system science. The CORE data set will be a significant
   contribution to Earth system science. The data can be used to address
   numerous Earth science research areas across a broad spectrum of
   disciplines. With the proposed data set researchers can study
   continuous momentum exchange among oceans, atmosphere (wind), and solid
   Earth. Periodic signals such as tides, non-periodic signals such as
   atmospheric angular momentum (AAM), and episodic signals such as
   earthquakes may be studied effectively with continuous Earth rotation
   data. The VLBI data will provide a continuous recording of the
   integrated effect of all geophysical sources on the Earth’s rotation.
   Since the sum of the effects of all geophysical changes must equal the
   measured Earth rotation variation, VLBI provides definitive
   constraints.

   Geophysical Effects. The chart in Figure 1 illustrates schematically
   the types of geophysical phenomena that affect the Earth’s rotation and
   the accuracies of various measurement techniques. A similar chart for
   polar motion is shown in Figure 2. Phenomena with time scales from 15
   minutes to 30 years are shown. The effects are color-coded, with blue
   for atmospheric phenomena, green for the oceans, and red for the solid
   Earth. Each colored curve indicates the approximate range in time scale
   and size for the measured or predicted effect.
   Figure 2. Geophysical Effects on Polar Motion

   Measurement accuracies for current VLBI and GPS systems as well as for
   the proposed CORE system are shown as dotted black lines. Any effects
   that occur above these lines could be detected by these systems. The
   VLBI accuracy limits were calculated using current and projected 1-s
   formal errors for VLBI sessions with 24 hours of data. The current VLBI
   system is insensitive to times shorter than about a week because there
   are only 2 or 3 measurement days per week. The line for the GPS
   accuracy in UT1 uses the formula by Ray [1996]. The GPS accuracy for
   polar motion is an estimate. The dashed line with a discontinuity at
   time scales around 1 day shows the sensitivity of GPS to retrograde
   signals. The continuous CORE data set in principle will be sensitive to
   all time scales, although routine analysis produces hourly values. The
   black gray line on each graph is an estimate of the sensitivity to
   coherent phenomena achievable by averaging 2 years of CORE data.


   3. Approach

   Our approach to producing continuous VLBI Earth orientation data is to
   acquire data using the Mark IV-equipped stations of the IVN, and to
   process the data with the Mark IV correlators. We will produce hourly
   and daily estimates of Earth orientation and make the results available
   to the scientific community.

   IVN. Today’s International VLBI Network of 15-20 high performance VLBI
   stations will be the foundation for the continuous observing system. We
   will organize the entire network into subnetworks, each having four or
   more stations; one such subnetwork will be the NEOS network. A
   subnetwork will acquire data for 24 hours, followed immediately by the
   next subnetwork for 24 hours, and so on. Some participating stations
   would observe several times a week, forming an element in different
   subnetworks on different observing days. This simple organization will
   lead to minimized operational requirements and reduced costs. The
   subnetworks may be designated as the "Monday" network, the "Tuesday"
   network, and so on.

                   Table 1. Comparison of Recording Modes


   CORE

   Mark IIIA Geodetic

   Recording format

   Mark IV, fanout 1:4

   Mark III Mode C

   Sampling

   1 bit

   1 bit

   Number of recorded channels

   14

   14

   Channel bandwidth

   16 MHz

   2 MHz

   Total bandwidth

   224 MHz

   28 MHz

   Total data rate

   448 Mb/s

   56 Mb/s

   Number of tracks recorded

   56 tracks at 8 Mb/s

   14 tracks at 4 Mb/s

   Number of tapes/station/day

   4 or 5 thin tapes

   3 or 4 thick tapes

   Correlator speed-up factor

   2

   1

   Mark IV technology. The Mark IV system technology is the key to
   achieving the accuracy goals as well as making the data acquisition and
   processing practical. The truly continuous observing system requires
   the use of Mark IV correlators and VLBI stations with Mark IV
   capability. Table 1 compares the current observing mode and the planned
   CORE observing mode, showing the dramatic increase in data rate that
   will be possible.

   Performance standards.
   Each station that participates in the CORE program must have Mark IV
   capability and must commit to maintaining high performance standards.
   Critical to the success of the CORE program will be the assurance that
   each day’s data achieves the accuracy goals for the program, and the
   initial step in this process is that the acquired data be of high
   quality.

   International collaboration. The CORE program will require continuing
   strong collaboration among all of the U.S. and international partners.
   No one country or agency alone can make the program work. We have
   obtained commitments from many partners now engaged in geodetic VLBI
   who are interested in being a part of the new program. In this program
   we anticipate that each country will contribute according to its
   resources and scientific/technical interest. With different daily
   networks, no undue burden should be placed on any single country or
   agency.

   Analysis. We will analyze the processed data using the Mark IV Analysis
   System and produce the best possible estimates for daily and hourly
   values of Earth orientation parameters. The data will be made available
   to the scientific community as soon as the analysis is completed. All
   of the existing VLBI geodetic analysis centers will participate in this
   activity.

   4. Resources Required

   If continuous EOP data from the CORE network is to become a reality,
   substantial resources will be required of U.S. agencies and
   international partners in VLBI. The Mark IV technology makes this
   project technically feasible, but the resources to operate the stations
   and the correlator and to coordinate the enterprise will be the key
   factor in its success.

   Assigning budgetary values to the resources is difficult because of the
   international character of the network. Contributions to the network
   from international partners may take the form of antenna observing time
   and staff support, correlator time, tape purchases, tape shipping
   costs, and data analysis support. The most significant increase
   required for the CORE program over the resources used today is in the
   number of station days. A possible division of resources among the U.S.
   agencies and international partners is suggested in Table 2, based on
   observing with daily 4-station networks.

                  Table 2. Possible Allocation of Resources

                                 NASA (U.S.)

                                 USNO (U.S.)

                                International

   Mark IV correlator operations (45%)

   Mark IV correlator operations (45%)

   Mark IV correlator operations (10%)

   Fairbanks and Westford operations and maintenance, for 3 days/week each
   (total 6 days)

   Kokee and Green Bank operations and maintenance, for 3 days/week each
   (total 6 days)

   Station operations and maintenance for a total of 16 days/week

   Shipping 30 tapes per station to the correlator per week.

   Shipping 30 tapes per station to the correlator per week.

   Ship 80 tapes from the stations to the correlators per week.

   Network coordination and scheduling, performance monitoring

   Ship 125 tapes from correlator to stations per week.

   Ship 15 tapes from correlator to stations per week.

   Purchase 150 thin tapes.

   Purchase 150 thin tapes.

   Purchase 120 thin tapes.

   Data analysis

   Data analysis

   Data analysis

   Future technology development

   Operational support

   Operational support

   Station observing time. Sufficient station resources must be committed
   so that there are at least four VLBI stations operating continuously
   simultaneously. Annually this is a commitment of a minimum of 1,460
   station days (or 1,040 if weekends are not covered). One "station day"
   is a 24-hour period of one station observing time.

   Correlators. Sufficient Mark IV correlator time to process continuous
   data would be provided by sharing the load among several correlators,
   as is done now among the Mark IIIA correlators. Estimates of correlator
   capacity for the CORE program assume that the level of correlator
   support will be the same as currently available.

   Tape shipping. It will be desirable for the stations to ship tapes to
   the correlator in a timely manner, so that the pipeline of data can be
   maintained smoothly. Regular shipping arrangements will have to be set
   up to achieve this goal.

   Station upgrades and performance. Each station that desires to
   participate in the network will make a commitment 1) to upgrade to Mark
   IV data acquisition system, 2) to maintain continuing good technical
   performance, 3) to provide 24 hours of observing time at least once per
   week (or on a regular but less frequent basis), and 4) to ship tapes to
   the correlator in a timely manner. Station performance will be
   monitored through analysis of processed data and field log files and
   will be continually compared against the standards established for the
   network. Assistance will be provided to those stations that cannot
   improve their performance on their own.


   5. Evolution

   The CORE program will evolve over the period 1997-2001. Figure 3 shows
   the planned evolution of the CORE program. The blue and green colored
   bars show the capacity of the correlators compared to the data
   production of the VLBI network, in units of numbers of observations per
   week (blue scale). The correlator capacity is the number of
   observations, acquired in the current typical geodetic mode, that can
   be processed given the efficiency of the correlator and the resources
   to operate it. Until the Mark IV correlator is available (in late 1998)
   we will continue to use the existing Mark IIIA correlators.

   Figure 3. CORE/IVN Evolution: Network Growth Also shown in Figure 3 is
   the gradual upgrading of geodetic stations to be Mark IV-equipped (red
   scale). Note however that we cannot take advantage of the higher data
   rate possible with Mark IV station equipment until the Mark IV
   correlators are operating.

   During 1997 and 1998 we will average nearly 3 observing days per week,
   which is the maximum that the Mark IIIA correlators can handle with
   current resources. We anticipate that 1999 will be a checkout period
   for the Mark IV correlator during which we will conduct some
   operations. We plan to observe up to 4 days per week and include a mix
   of both Mark III and Mark IV data acquisition modes (shown in Table 1).
   The dramatic increase in correlator capacity in 1999 reflects the Mark
   IV correlator’s ability to process Mark III data extremely efficiently.
   The jump in data production in 2000 occurs because we will be using the
   Mark IV data acquisition systems.

   By the year 2000 the full Mark IV correlator capacity will be available
   and will remain constant thereafter. If the station resources are
   available, we hope to be able to increase the observing days to 5 per
   week, using the Mark IV data rate. The ultimate goal is continuous
   7-day observing by the year 2001.

   Figure 4. CORE/IVN Evolution: UT1 Precision Figure 4 shows the
   projected improvement in the determination of daily UT1 as the CORE
   program evolves. The red curve is an estimate of UT1 precision with a
   "perfect" terrestrial reference frame (TRF), i.e. a reference frame in
   which the station positions are known perfectly. The blue curve is an
   estimate of UT1 precision for a "realistic" reference frame that has
   the uncertainties of the motions of the stations taken into account. It
   is difficult to make more than a qualitative assessment of how the TRF
   will improve over time because so many factors must be considered. Some
   of these factors include the composition of the networks that acquire
   data, how many sessions a station participates in each year and the
   total span of data for the station, the number of observations in a
   session, and the SNR of individual observations. When the Mark IV
   correlators and data acquisition systems are fully available by the
   year 2000, the daily VLBI sessions will produce the most precise Earth
   orientation data ever. The values plotted in Figure 4 are for typical
   5-station networks. With larger networks and correspondingly more
   resources even higher precision is possible.


   Acknowledgments

   We would like to thank the group of scientists who met with us in
   November, 1996, and contributed substantially to the definition of the
   CORE program scientific objectives. The scientists are: James Carton
   (University of Maryland), Ben Chao (NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center),
   David Crossley (St. Louis University), Jean Dickey (Jet Propulsion
   Laboratory), Marshall Eubanks (U.S. Naval Observatory), David Salstein
   (Atmospheric and Environmental Research, Inc.), John Wahr (University
   of Colorado), and Clark Wilson (University of Texas and NASA
   Headquarters).


   References
   Ray, J. R., "Measurements of length of day using the Global Positioning
       System", 1996, JGR, 101, 20141.

   For More Information

   This paper and other information about the international geodetic VLBI
   program are available on the VLBI group’s home page at
   http://lupus.gsfc.nasa.gov/vlbi.html. Please feel free to contact any
   of the people listed below for further information.

   Thomas A. Clark, Space Geodesy Program, NASA Goddard Space Flight
   Center, Greenbelt, MD 20771 USA

   clark@tomcat.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Chopo Ma, Space Geodesy Program, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
   Greenbelt, MD 20771 USA

   cma@virgo.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Nancy R. Vandenberg, NVI, Inc/GSFC, Greenbelt, MD 20771 USA

   nrv@gemini.gsfc.nasa.gov

   John M. Gipson, NVI, Inc/GSFC, Greenbelt, MD 20771 USA

   jmg@leo.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Arthur E. Niell, Haystack Observatory, Westford, MA 01886 USA

   aen@dopey.haystack.edu
