http://www.ecy.wa.gov/programs/sea/shorelan.html

   Access Washington [seabanner.jpg]

   Ecology Home
   About Ecology
   Directory
   Public Events
   Laws and Rules
   Publications
   Public Records
   spacer
   Environmental Info.
   spacer
   Services
   spacer
   spacer
   Programs
   Air Quality
   Env. Assessment
   Hazardous Waste
   Nuclear Waste
   Shorelands
   Solid Waste
   Spills
   Toxics Cleanup
   Water Quality
   Water Resources
   spacer
   spacer
   Contracting
   Jobs
   Other Links


   Search Contact Us E-Mail Lists Site Information

SEA Program

   Wetlands I Shoreline Management I Coastal Zones I
   Property Owner Guides I Grants I Floods I Education



   Hearings Board invalidates rule -
   On August 27, 2001 the Shorelines Hearings Board entered a split
   decision invalidating WAC 173-26, Ecology's guidelines for developing
   local shoreline master programs under the Shoreline Management Act.

   Sea-Tac Third Runway -
   Ecology has approved the Port of Seattle's environmental permit to
   construct a third runway at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.
   View Ecology's amended water quality certification, including cover
   letter to the Port, and attachments.

   Aquatic Habitat Guidelines (AHG) -
   The Departments of Ecology, Transportation, Fish and Wildlife and US
   Army Corps have been working together to develop this integrated
   approach to aquatic and riparian habitat protection and restoration.




   Ecology Shoreline Master Program Guidelines News and Info

   Shoreline and Wetlands Management 101: Introduction to Ecology's role
   in managing shorelines and wetlands.

   Introduction to the Shoreline Management Act of 1971 (RCW 90.058)

   Joint Aquatic Resource Permit Application (JARPA) form for state and
   federal permits for working in or near Washington waters.

   Enforcing the Shoreline Management Act: Guidance for Local Government
   Administrators.

   Shoreline Management Act rules



   Floods Information

   Flood Control Assistance Account Program (FCAAP) grants



   Grant program for local governments within the 15 counties with
   saltwater shorelines.

   Managing Washington's Coast: Document details the state's Coastal Zone
   Management Program (CZMP).

   Washington's CZMP: Focus on Federal Consistency.



   Flood Control Grants

   Coastal Zone Management grants



   Vegetation Management Guide - How to manage plants on your coastal
   bluff

   Slope Stabilization and Erosion Control Using Vegetation - How to use
   plants to stop erosion on coastal slopes

   Surface Water and Groundwater on Coastal Bluffs - How to design a
   drainage control system for your coastal property

   At Home With Wetlands: A Landowner's Guide



   A Federal-State-Local cooperative research program to address the
   coastal geology, processes, and natural hazards of the Southwest
   Washington coast.



   A quarterly newsletter exploring the State of Washington's waters and
   shorelands.



   Wetland Walks: A Guide to Washington's Public Access Wetlands - 225
   easily accessible public wetlands

   Discover Wetlands: A Curriculum Guide for grades K-12.

   Wetlands, Streams, and Estuaries Poster Distributors.

   Where Rivers Meet the Sea: A guide to Washington's Estuaries Poster.

   [head_padilla_up.gif]

   Padilla Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve: A cooperative program
   of Ecology and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   (NOAA).



   SEA Program Home | Wetlands



   Landslides are common on Puget Sound Shorelines. Reduce your risk.


   Photos of Washington's marine shorelines.


   A new Web site: Puget Sound Shorelines.
   Explore our Puget Sound Shorelines.


   Sound advice.
   Tips for buying, building, and maintaining a home on Puget Sound.


   Confluence Newsletter
   Confluence: News on Washington's waters and shores.
