http://www.fernald.gov/security.htm

   Warning: Privacy and Security Policy

   Fernald Environmental Management Project banner



   SECURITY NOTICE
   This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
   Federal Functions. The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
   security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
   protect information in the system. By accessing this web site, you are
   expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   is prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294), (18 U.S.C.
   1030), or other applicable criminal laws.

   GENERAL DISCLAIMER
   This system is made available by an agency of the United States
   Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency
   thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or
   implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
   accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
   product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not
   infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific
   commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark,
   manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply
   its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States
   Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators
   expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the
   United States Government or any agency thereof.

   PRIVACY POLICY
   We collect no personal information about you when you visit
   home.doe.gov unless you choose to provide this information to us.
   However, we collect and store certain information automatically. What
   we collect and store automatically is:



   bullet item the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which
   you access the Internet (i.e. 123.456.789.012) whether yours
   individually or provided as a proxy by your Internet Service Provider
   (ISP)
   bullet item the date and time you access our site
   bullet item the pages you peruse (recorded by the text and graphics
   files that compose that page)
   bullet item and, the Internet address of the Website from which you
   linked directly to our site.

   We use this information to count the number and types of visitors who
   use our site, how our pages and links are used and, ultimately, to help
   us make our site more useful to you.

   This information is NOT shared with anyone beyond the support staff to
   this home page, except when required by Law Enforcement investigation,
   and is used only as a source of anonymous statistical information.

   COMMENTS SENT BY E-MAIL
   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in an e-mail
   message containing your comments or questions. We use this information
   to improve our service to you or to respond to your request. There are
   times when your message is forwarded, as e-mail, to other
   Fernald/Department of Energy employees who may be better able to help
   you. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not
   share our e-mail with any other outside organizations.


   Navigation Bar

    Together, DOE and Fluor Fernald are committed to safely restoring the
    Fernald site to an end state that serves the needs of the community.
                  Fernald Environmental Management Project
            7400  Willey Road, Fernald, Ohio 45253 (513) 648-3000
            If you have any questions regarding this site contact
                            webmaster@fernald.gov

     A friendly uniformed police officer wearing a helmet displaying the
    wheelchair access symbol and extending his open right hand. The words
                    "Bobby Approved" appear to his right.
