http://www.info.gov/congress.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

         Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

                             About the Congress

      | Who Represents Me | How to get Help | Expressing your Opinion |
    | E-Mail - WWW | Getting Copies of Bills/Reports | Status of Current
                                   Bill |

   Who represents me in the Congress?

   Do you know the boundaries of your Congressional District and the name
   of your Representative? Do you know the name of your State’s two U.S.
   Senators? If you’re among the large percentage of Americans reputed not
   to know the answer to these questions, you can usually find out from
   your local elections officer (registrar of voters) or you may call our
   National Contact Center toll-free 1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call:
   1-800-326-2996).

   How do I get Congressional assistance in resolving a specific problem
   with a Federal agency?

   The best assistance for these matters is usually available from the
   "field" or "State" offices, not the ones in Washington, D.C. While
   these offices are nearly always listed in local telephone directories,
   the size of some States and Districts and the small number of offices
   means that you won’t necessarily find a listing in your directory. If
   you can’t find the phone number, feel free to call our National Contact
   Center toll-free 1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call: 1-800-326-2996).

   What about expressing my opinion on a matter of public policy or a
   proposed law?

   While this varies from member to member, many field offices routinely
   ask that constituents call or write their Washington, D.C., offices
   about pending legislation. Check with the local office [see the
   paragraph above] to verify how they would like you to express your
   opinion.

   But don’t they all have e-mail and/or WWW sites?

   Many, if not all, of the members of both houses of Congress do indeed
   offer electronic access. Both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of
   Representatives web sites maintain indexes listing links to Members’
   home pages.

   What about getting copies of bills and reports?

   Your best source for ordering a copy of a bill that has been signed
   into law is the local office of your member of the U.S. House of
   Representatives or your U.S. Senator. They can often (but not always)
   provide a free copy. Sometimes, laws and related reports are not
   available free but may be sold by Government Printing Office
   bookstores. Or you may review copies in many Government Depository
   Libraries.

   If you’re looking for the text of a bill drafted in the current term of
   Congress, you may request it from local Congressional offices or you
   may take a look at the Full Text of Legislation web site, which allows
   you to search by key words, author, or number of the legislation.

   And how do I check on the status of a current bill?

   Local Congressional offices are also usually the best source for the
   status of current bills and resolutions. Or you may check the status of
   measures in the (current) 106^th Congress web site maintained by the
   Library of Congress. Image linking to top of page

   Last Updated: October 26, 2001

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
