http://ug-sprtech.sandia.gov/moreinfo.htm

   #Martin A. Molecke Martin A. Molecke

      More Information SNLlogo

     [urbhorsa.gif]

   Up Staff Members


   Sandia information navigation panel     Privacy


                                                    UnderGround-SPR Technology

   [urbbul1a.gif]

   Underground Storage Technology
   Department 6113 :  Mission Focus
   To conduct applied geotechnical research, development, and engineering
   support for the Department of Energy's  Strategic Petroleum Reserve
   (DOE SPR) Project.   Additionally, our Department provides technology
   to support  the SPR plus other DOE and Industry customers in the
   planning,
   development, and operation of large underground caverns in salt for
   the
   storage of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons or other products.

   Contact:

     Ray E. Finley,   Department Manager
     Phone: (505) 844-4462   Fax: (505) 844-0240
     Sandia National Laboratories
     Geoscience and Environment Center

                                                [finley.gif]

   [urbhorsa.gif]

   [urbbul1a.gif]
   The Underground Storage Technology Department 6113
   is a part of the Geoscience and Environment Center  at
   Sandia National Laboratories. This Center provides a broad
   and integrated set of capabilities that are focused either to
   improve understanding of geosystems or to develop technology
   for specific geoapplications. Geoscience & Environment Center

   [urbbul1a.gif] Technical Staff: Our Department staff specialize in site
   planning and
   geological investigations, cavern and subsurface geomechanics, fuel
   and brine chemistry, operational analyses, salt leaching analyses, and
   other topics. We also provide and direct additional Sandia (SNL)
   support in materials, fluids, modeling, and other related and needed
   areas of geotechnology.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Our staff members have won the Sandia President's
                  Quality Award
                  (1995) and the Sandia Division 6000 Team Employee Recognition
                  Award (2000) for excellent work supporting the decommissioning
                  of the DOE Weeks Island SPR site and facility.

   [urbhorsa.gif]

SPR oil storage cavern
                                                  salt cavern acoustic image

                     Diagram of Oil Storage Cavern
                            in a Salt Dome

                                                                       Processed Acoustic Image of a
                                                                      Leached Storage Cavern in Salt

   [urbbul1a.gif] Technical Activity Areas and Core Capabilities:

   Underground Storage of
   Crude Oil and Natural Gas Site Planning of
   Storage Facilities Site Characterization
   Studies
   Full Cavern/Well Design
   and Development Cavern Mechanics Analyses Cavern
   Operational Analyses
   Sonar Tool Development Cavern Integrity Testing Subsidence Modeling
   Monitoring Technology

                           Oil and Brine Chemistry
   Brine/Waste Disposal
   Regulatory Interaction Experience Technical Credibility

                              Quality Assurance

                             Support for the DOE
                                   DOE SPR
   Geotechnology
   Problem Solving
   Support for Your
   Industry Needs ?

     Back to Top

   [urbbul1a.gif] Added Capabilities Available at Sandia National
                  Laboratories

   We can provide an overall systems approach and resources for your
   entire scope of work.
   Geomechanics and
   geohydrologic properties testing Hydraulic fracture
   design and analyses Corrosion and
   metallurgical studies Robotics
   Major computing abilities,
   experience, and equipment Advanced materials
   laboratories Well design and
   testing Much more ...

   [urbhorsa.gif]

   [urbbul1a.gif] Selected Achievements and Current Projects:

   [urbbul2a.gif] Cavern Leaching: Sandia developed the salt vertical
   cavern leaching code
   SANSMIC which simulates stages of direct and reverse leaching and
   uniquely
   features a leach/fill option for cavern development. The code has been
   validated
   and used for the development of about forty caverns. Additionally, the
   horizontal
   leaching code HORSMIC has been developed for bedded salt applications.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Storage Site Development: We have developed the data
   base and models for
   the optimized development of storage sites containing either single or
   multiple
   caverns. This capability is being and has been used to locate caverns
   on sites,
   and develop in an optimized manner either single caverns or arrays of
   caverns.
   The caverns are located, sized, and developed in a manner which
   preserves
   stability and operational constraints, while minimizing workovers and
   overall
   development time.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Leach Scheduling: In response to SPR's necessity to
   minimize site cavern
   development time, a site optimization scheduling model for leaching
   caverns has
   been developed. The model optimally allocates raw water, workover rigs,
   etc.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Downhole Tool Development: With industry, we are working
   on the development
   of an acoustic cavern sonar tool to operate parametrically, thus
   potentially achieving
   extended range in caverns storing highly attenuative liquids such as
   crude oil.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Gas Storage: With industry, we are supporting the
   development of gas storage
   caverns using gas as a blanket material during cavern leaching. The
   cost of the
   caverns has been minimized by optimizing the leaching stages,
   minimizing
   cavern workovers, and allowing for early gas storage.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Cavern Integrity Testing: For the U.S. SPR, we developed
   the concept and
   procedure for integrity testing salt cavern wells using nitrogen. With
   nitrogen
   testing, SPR was able to reduce detectable leak rates by orders of
   magnitude,
   thus minimizing potential environmental damage and oil loss. The
   practice of
   nitrogen testing has been adopted by industry and is now recognized by
   the
   Louisiana and Texas regulatory agencies. Additionally, we have
   developed and
   implemented automated salt cavern monitoring and pressure prediction
   capabilities.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Salt Cavern Mechanics: We have developed an analysis
   capability to investigate
   salt stress/strain/creep associated phenomena. Stresses and resulting
   creep,
   dilatancy, and subsidence have been modeled for existing caverns and
   shafts.
   The models have been validated by cavern closure data and surface
   subsidence
   measurements. Associated salt stability criteria developed by Sandia
   for WIPP
   have been applied to individual caverns and arrays of caverns in order
   to predict
   long-term responses to both existing and possible operational or
   development scenarios.
          Projections of long-term subsidence and associated casing
   strains/stresses
   have been developed. This has allowed plans to be developed for the
   mitigation of
   potential site flooding on sites which are susceptible to local or
   seasonal flooding.
   This work has also been used to form the basis of comprehensive surface
   leveling
   grids which are surveyed annually.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Long-Term Stored Product Stability: We continue to
   provide technical
   analyses and reviews of the effects of long-term storage on stored
   products,
   most significantly crude oil. Models have been developed to predict the
   effects
   of downhole thermal absorption, gas absorption, and internal
   circulation, on
   caverns with crude oil. An analysis capability has also been developed
   to predict
   the effect of pipeline thermal losses/gains on delivered products.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Salt Cavern Siting: In response to the original
   Strategic Petroleum Reserve
   development and subsequent expansion programs, we have maintained a
   comprehensive data base on Gulf Coast salt domes, with particular
   emphasis
   on the larger on-shore domes with significant storage potential.
   Associated
   geological information relative to brine disposal near the domes has
   been
   evaluated, including injection wells.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Materials Development: We have developed with industry a
   light-weight
   epoxy material which floats on oil and cures to form effective bases
   for
   isolation bulkheads for penetrations in salt.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Site Geotechnical Characterization: Sandia has
   characterized each of the
   SPR sites used for storage regarding those factors that affect storage
   integrity.
   Geologic structure, salt properties, groundwater, and environmental
   factors are
   evaluated prior to cavern emplacement, and periodically reevaluated to
   ensure
   safe and environmentally acceptable storage.
   [urbbul2a.gif] Corrosion Monitoring and Materials Development: We have
   operated a
   corrosion test loop for pipeline coatings in brine environments.
   Concrete linings
   have been extensively characterized. Corrosion monitoring probes and
   techniques for in situ pipeline corrosion measurements have been
   developed
   and periodic data collection is ongoing.
   [urbbul2a.gif] More ...

   [urbbul1a.gif] Documentation: Browse our open-literature Sandia
   Technical Reports
   for detailed examples of our accomplishments and capabilities.

   [urbhorsa.gif]

   [urbbul1a.gif] Contact:
                          Ray E. Finley,   Department Manager
                          Sandia National Laboratories
                          Underground Storage Technology, Department 6113
                          MS 0706,   P. O. Box 5800
                          Albuquerque, NM  87185 - 0706
                          Phone: (505) 844-4462   Fax: (505) 844-0240

   [urbhorsa.gif]

   Back to Top
   "... exceptional service in the national interest."

   Home
     More Information  Technical Reports   SPR Members Only   How To? Help

   [urbhorsa.gif]

   Web site page owner:     e-mail to: Martin A. Molecke
   Last modified:  June 27, 2001
