http://coco-rahs.fsl.noaa.gov/weatherworkshop/

       mast: Rocky Mountain Weather and Climate Workshop [rmwspec.gif]
                    [whitesp2.gif] April 19 and 21, 2001

    How cold was this winter? Why do we get so much hail? How can weather
   on the Western Slope be so much different from the Eastern Plains? Are
     we in for a drought? How does the Pacific Ocean affect our weather
       here? How do weather forecasters in the 21st century still get
       tomorrow's forecast wrong? What do sunspots have to do with our
                                  weather?

      Experts on Rocky Mountain weather and climate will address these
     questions and more in a special workshop honoring volunteer weather
      watchers and their contributions to the fields of meteorology and
                                climatology.

     The program begins with a special presentation by Greg Thompson on
     Thursday evening, April 19, 2001 at 7:00 - 8:00 PM in the NCAR main
     seminar room at the Mesa Lab (click this link for directions) atop
      Table Mesa in southwest Boulder. His presentation is open to the
             general public. All ages are welcome. Photo of NCAR
    Photo of DSRC The workshop continues on Saturday, April 21, 2001 9:00
   AM - 1 PM at the NCAR Mesa Lab, and from 1:30 PM to 4 PM the NOAA David
    Skaggs Federal Building in Boulder with a series of talks and special
   activities. Click here for a Mapquest (tm) map of the area, or here for
                       an Adobe .pdf format site map.

    This workshop is presented by three organizations whose research and
   service have benefited for many years by the generous contributions of
          volunteer weather observers here and across the country.

                    Click here for the Schedule of Events

                                 Please RSVP

            Please RSVP to Nolan Doesken. Click to send email to:
                          nolan@atmos.colostate.edu

                              Workshop sponsors

    Colorado Climate Center, Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado
                              State University

                  National Center for Atmospheric Research

               National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                         Workshop planning committee

                           Mr. Nolan Doesken, CSU
                          Ms. Barbara McGehan, NOAA
                            Ms. Rene Munoz, NCAR

                               See you there!

                       Webpage: Will von Dauster, FSL
