http://ftp.sec.gov/info/edgar/forms.htm

   U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission
   SEC Seal
                      Home | Previous Page
   U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

   Descriptions of SEC Forms

       *   Overview of the Most Common Corporate Filings
           [pixel.gif]
       *   Forms & Rules ('33 Act, '34 Act & more)
           [pixel.gif]
       *   Adviser Act Forms & Rules
           [pixel.gif]
       *   List of Forms Filed Through EDGAR
           [pixel.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

Overview of the Most Common Corporate Filings

   The following is a short description of the most common corporate
   filings made with the SEC. Many of these filings are now made through
   the SEC's EDGAR system and available electronically.

   The guide cannot take the place of the Commission's official rules and
   regulations. It is not to be used as a legal reference document. Please
   refer to the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations
   thereunder (Title 17 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 200 to
   End) for the official description of the forms mentioned. These are
   available at most law libraries. They may also be ordered through:

     Superintendent of Documents
     Government Printing Office
     Washington, D.C. 20402

     or

     Securities and Exchange Commission
     Publications Unit
     Mail Stop C-11
     450 Fifth Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20549

Form ADV

   This form is used to apply for registration as an investment adviser or
   to amend a registration. It consists of two parts. Part I contains
   general and personal information about the applicant. Part 11 contains
   information relating to the nature of the applicant's business,
   including basic operations, services offered, fees charged, types of
   clients advised, educational and business backgrounds of associates and
   other business activities of the applicant.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Investment Management - Office of Chief Counsel

Annual Report to Shareholders

   The Annual Report to Shareholders is the principal document used by
   most public companies to disclose corporate information to
   shareholders. It is usually a state-of-the-company report including an
   opening letter from the Chief Executive Officer, financial data,
   results of continuing operations, market segment information, new
   product plans, subsidiary activities and research and development
   activities on future programs.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

Form BD

   This form is used to apply for registration as a broker or dealer of
   securities, or as a government securities broker or dealer, and to
   amend a registration. It provides background information on the
   applicant and the nature of its business. It includes lists of the
   executive officers and general partners of the company. It also
   contains information on any past securities violations.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Market Regulation - Office of Chief Counsel

Form D

   Companies selling securities in reliance on a Regulation D exemption or
   a Section 4(6) exemption from the registration provisions of the '33
   Act must file a Form D as notice of such a sale. The form must be filed
   no later than 15 days after the first sale of securities.

   For additional information on Regulation D and Section 4(6) offerings,
   ask for a copy of the Regulation and the pamphlet entitled: "Q & A:
   Small Business and the SEC" from the Commission's Publications Unit or
   see the Small Business Section of the Commission's Web Site.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Small Business Policy

Form 1-A

   Regulation A provides the basis for an exemption for certain small
   offerings (generally up to $5 million in any twelve month period).
   Companies selling securities in reliance on a Regulation A exemption
   from the registration provisions of the 1933 Act must provide investors
   with an offering statement meeting the requirements of Form 1-A.

   For additional information on Regulation A, ask for a copy of the
   Regulation and the pamphlet entitled "Q & A: Small Business and the
   SEC" from the Commission's Publications Unit or see the Small Business
   section of the Commission's Web Site.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Small Business Policy

Form MSD

   This report is used by a bank or a separately identifiable department
   or division of a bank to apply for registration as a municipal
   securities dealer with the SEC, or to amend such registration.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Market Regulation - Office of Chief Counsel

Form N-SAR

   This is a report to the Commission filed by registered investment
   companies on a semi-annual and annual basis, at the end of the
   corresponding fiscal periods. Unit investment trusts, however, are
   required to file this form only once a year, at the end of the calendar
   year. The form contains information about the type of fund that is
   reporting sales charges, 12b-1 fees, sales of shares, identity of
   various entities providing services to the investment company,
   portfolio turnover rate, and selected financial information.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Investment Management

Prospectus

   The prospectus constitutes Part I of a 1933 Act registration statement.
   It contains the basic business and financial information on an issuer
   with respect to a particular securities offering. Investors may use the
   prospectus to help appraise the merits of the offering and make
   educated investment decisions.

   A prospectus in its preliminary form is frequently called a "red
   herring" prospectus and is subject to completion or amendment before
   the registration statement becomes effective, after which a final
   prospectus is issued and sales can be consummated.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel (or)
   Division of Investment Management

Proxy Solicitation Materials (Regulation 14A/Schedule 14A)

   State law governs the circumstances under which shareholders are
   entitled to vote. When a shareholder vote is required and any person
   solicits proxies with respect to securities registered under Section 12
   of the 1934 Act, that person generally is required to furnish a proxy
   statement containing the information specified by Schedule 14A. The
   proxy statement is intended to provide security holders with the
   information necessary to enable them to vote in an informed manner on
   matters intended to be acted upon at security holders' meetings,
   whether the traditional annual meeting or a special meeting. Typically,
   a security holder is also provided with a "proxy card" to authorize
   designated persons to vote his or her securities on the security
   holder's behalf in the event the holder does not vote in person at the
   meeting. Copies of definitive (final) proxy statements and proxy card
   are filed with the Commission at the time they are sent to security
   holders. For further information about the applicability of the
   Commission's proxy rules, see Section 14(a) of the 1934 Act and
   Regulation 14A.

   Certain preliminary proxy filings relating to mergers, consolidations,
   acquisitions and similar matters are non-public upon filing; all other
   proxy filings are publicly available.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of the Chief Counsel

1933 Act Registration Statements

   One of the major purposes of the federal securities laws is to require
   companies making a public offering of securities to disclose material
   business and financial information in order that investors may make
   informed investment decisions. The 1933 Act requires issuers to file
   registration statements with the Commission, setting forth such
   information, before offering their securities to the public. (See
   Section 6 of the Securities Act of 1933 for information concerning the
   "Registration of Securities and Signing of Registration Statement;"
   Section 8 of the Securities Act of 1933 for information on "Taking
   Effect of Registration Statements and Amendments Thereto.")

   The registration statement is divided into two parts. Part I is the
   prospectus. It is distributed to interested investors and others. It
   contains data to assist in evaluating the securities and to make
   informed investment decisions.

   Part II of the registration statement contains information not required
   to be in the prospectus. This includes information concerning the
   registrants' expenses of issuance and distribution, indemnification of
   directors and officers, and recent sales of unregistered securities as
   well as undertakings and copies of material contracts.

   (Investment companies file 1933 Act registration statements that are,
   in many cases, also registration statments under the Investment Company
   Act of 1940. For descriptions of registration statments filed by these
   issuers, see the following section.)
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel.
   (Except for the foreign forms (e.g., F-1 and F-2), for which the Office
   of International Corporate Finance should be consulted.)

   The most widely used 1933 Act registration forms are as follows:

   S-1   This is the basic registration form. It can be used to register
         securities for which no other form is authorized or prescribed, except
         securities of foreign governments or political sub-divisions thereof.
   S-2   This is a simplified optional registration form that may be used by
         companies that have been required to report under the '34 Act for a
         minimum of three years and have timely filed all required reports
         during the 12 calendar months and any portion of the month immediately
         preceding the filing of the registration statement. Unlike Form S-1, it
         permits incorporation by reference from the company's annual report to
         stockholders (or annual report on Form 10-K) and periodic reports.
         Delivery of these incorporated documents as well as the prospectus to
         investors may be required.
   S-3   This is the most simplified registration form and it may only be
         used by companies that have been required to report under the '34 Act
         for a minimum of twelve months and have met the timely filing
         requirements set forth under Form S-2. Also, the offering and issuer
         must meet the eligibility tests prescribed by the form. The form
         maximizes incorporating by reference information from '34 Act filings.
   S-4   This form is used to register securities in connection with
         business combinations and exchange offers.
   S-8   This form is used for the registration of securities to be offered
         to an issuer's employees pursuant to certain plans.
   S-11  This form is used to register securities of certain real estate
         companies, including real estate investment trusts.
   SB-1  This form may be used by certain "small business issuers" to
         register offerings of up to $10 million of securities, provided that
         the company has not registered more than $10 million in securities
         offerings during the preceding twelve months. This form requires less
         detailed information about the issuer's business than Form S-1.
         Generally, a "small business issuer" is a U.S. or Canadian company with
         revenues and public market float less than $25 million.
   SB-2  This form may be used by "small business issuers" to register
         securities to be sold for cash. This form requires less detailed
         information about the issuer's business than Form S-1.
   S-20  This form may be used to register standardized options where the
         issuer undertakes not to issue, clear, guarantee or accept an option
         registered on Form S-20 unless there is a definitive options disclosure
         document meeting the requirements of Rule 9b-1 of the '34 Act.
   Sch B Schedule B is the registration statement used by foreign
         governments (or political subdivisions of foreign governments) to
         register securities. Generally, it contains a description of the
         country and its government, the terms of the offering, and the uses of
         proceeds.
   F-1   This is the basic registration form authorized for certain foreign
         private issuers. It is used to register the securities of those
         eligible foreign issuers for which no other more specialized form is
         authorized or prescribed.
   F-2   This is an optional registration form that may be used by certain
         foreign private issuers that have an equity float of at least $75
         million worldwide or are registering non-convertible investment grade
         securities or have reported under the '34 Act for a minimum of three
         years. The form is somewhat shorter than Form F-1 because it uses
         delivery of filings made by the issuer under the '34 Act, particularly
         Form 20-F.
   F-3   This form may only be used by certain foreign private issuers that
         have reported under the '34 Act for a minimum of twelve months and that
         have a worldwide public market float of more than $75 million. The form
         also may be used by eligible foreign private issuers to register
         offerings of non-convertible investment grade securities, securities to
         be sold by selling security holders, or securities to be issued to
         certain existing security holders. The form allows '34 Act filings to
         be incorporated by reference.
   F-4   This form is used to register securities in connection with
         business combinations and exchange offers involving foreign private
         issuers.
   F-6   This form is used to register depository shares represented by
         American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs") issued by a depositary against
         the deposit of the securities of a foreign issuer.
   F-7   This form is used by certain eligible publicly traded Canadian
         foreign private issuers to register rights offers extended to their
         U.S. shareholders. Form F-7 acts as a wraparound for the relevant
         Canadian offering documents. To be registered on Form F-7, the rights
         must be granted to U.S. shareholders on terms no less favorable than
         those extended to other shareholders.
   F-8   This form may be used by eligible large publicly traded Canadian
         foreign private issuers to register securities offered in business
         combinations and exchange offers. Form F-8 acts as a wraparound for the
         relevant Canadian offering or disclosure documents. The securities must
         be offered to U.S. holders on terms no less favorable than those
         extended to other holders.
   F-9   This form may be used by eligible large publicly traded Canadian
         foreign private issuers to register non-convertible investment grade
         securities. Form F-9 acts as a wraparound for the relevant Canadian
         offering documents.
   F-10  This form may be used by eligible large publicly traded Canadian
         foreign private issuers to register any securities (except certain
         derivative securities). Form F-10 acts as a wraparound for the relevant
         Canadian offering documents. Unlike Forms F-7, F-8, F-9, and F-80,
         however, Form F-10 requires the Canadian issuer to reconcile its
         financial statements to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
         ("GAAP").
   F-80  This form may be used by eligible large publicly traded Canadian
         foreign private issuers to register securities offered in business
         combinations and exchange offers. Form F-80 acts as a wraparound for
         the relevant Canadian offering or disclosure documents. The securities
         must be offered to U.S. holders on terms no less favorable than those
         extended to other holders.
   SR    This form is used as a report by first time registrants under the
         Act of sales of registered securities and use of proceeds therefrom.
         The form is required at specified periods of time throughout the
         offering period, and a final report is required after the termination
         of the offering.

Investment Company Registration Statements

   Investment companies also register their securities under the 1933 Act.
   However, many of the forms used are also used as registration
   statements under the Investment Company act of 1940.

   Mutual funds, the most common type of registered investment company,
   make a continuous offering of their securities and register on From
   N-1A, a simplified, three-part form. The prospectus, or Part A,
   provides a concise description of the fundamental characteristics of
   the initial fund in a way that will assist investors in making informed
   decisions about whether to purchase the securities of the fund. The
   statement of additional information, Part B, contains additional
   information about the fund which may be of interest to some investors
   but need not be included in the prospectus. Part C contains other
   required information and exhibits.

   Closed-end funds, Unit investment trusts, insurance company separate
   accounts, business development companies and other registered
   investment companies register their securities and provide essential
   information about them on other registration forms, as listed below.
   All the forms listed are used for registration under both the 1933 Act
   and 1940 Act unless otherwise indicated.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Investment Management

   N-lA This form is used to register open-end management investment
        companies ("mutual funds").
   N-2  This form is used to register closed-end management investment
        companies ("closed-end funds").
   N-3  This form is used to register insurance company separate accounts
        organized as management investment companies offering variable annuity
        contracts.
   N-4  This form is used to register insurance company separate accounts
        organized as unit investment trusts offering variable annuity
        contracts.
   S-6  This form is used to register securities issued by unit investment
        trusts (1933 Act only).
   N-14 This form is used to register securities issued by investment
        cpmpanies in connection with business combinations and mergers (1933
        Act only).

Other Securities Act Form: Form 144

   This form must be filed as notice of the proposed sale of restricted
   securities or securities held by an affiliate of the issuer in reliance
   on Rule 144 when the amount to be sold during any three month period
   exceeds 500 shares or units or has an aggregate sales price in excess
   of $10,000.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

1934 Act Registration Statements

   All companies whose securities are registered on a national securities
   exchange, and, in general, other companies whose total assets exceed
   $10,000,000 ($10 million) with a class of equity securities held by 500
   or more persons, must register such securities under the 1934 Act. (See
   Section 12 of the '34 Act for further information.)

   This registration establishes a public file containing material
   financial and business information on the company for use by investors
   and others, and also creates an obligation on the part of the company
   to keep such public information current by filing periodic reports on
   Forms 10-Q and 10-K, and on current event Form 8-K, as applicable.

   In addition, if registration under the 1934 Act is not required, any
   issuer who conducts a public offering of securities must file reports
   for the year in which it conducts the offering (and in subsequent years
   if the securities are held by more than 300 holders).

   The most widely used 1934 Act registration forms are as follows:

   10    This is the general form for registration of securities pursuant to
         section 12(b) or (g) of the '34 Act of classes of securities of issuers
         for which no other form is prescribed. It requires certain business and
         financial information about the issuer.
   10-SB This is the general form for registration of securities pursuant
         to Sections 12(b) or (g) of the '34 Act for "small business issuers."
         This form requires slightly less detailed information about the
         company's business than Form 10 requires.
   8-A   This optional short form may be used by companies to register
         securities under the '34 Act.
   8-B   This specialized registration form may be used by certain issuers
         with no securities registered under the'34 Act that succeed to another
         issuer which had securities so registered at the time of succession.
   20-F  This is an integrated form used both as a registration statement
         for purposes of registering securities of qualified foreign private
         issuers under Section 12 or as an annual report under Section 13(a) or
         15(d) of the '34 Act.
   40-F  This is an integrated form used both as a registration statement
         to register securities of eligible publicly traded Canadian foreign
         private issuers or as an annual report for such issuers. It serves as a
         wraparound for the company's Canadian public reports.

   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel (Except for
   Form 20-F, as to which the Office of International Corporate Finance
   should be consulted.)

Other Exchange Act Forms

  Form TA-1

   This form is used to apply for registration as a transfer agent or to
   amend such registration. It provides information on the company's
   activities and operation.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Market Regulation - Branch of Stock Surveillance

  Form X-17A-5

   Every broker or dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the
   Exchange Act must file annually, on a calendar or fiscal year basis, a
   report audited by an independent public accountant.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Market Regulation - Branch of Financial Reporting

  Forms 3, 4 and 5

   Every director, officer or owner of more than ten percent of a class of
   equity securities registered under Section 12 of the '34 Act must file
   with the Commission a statement of ownership regarding such security.
   The initial filing is on Form 3 and changes are reported on Form 4. The
   Annual Statement of beneficial ownership of securities is on Form 5.
   The forms contain information on the reporting person's relationship to
   the company and on purchases and sales of such equity securities.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 6-K

   This report is used by certain foreign private issuers to furnish
   information: (i) required to be made public in the country of its
   domicile; (ii) filed with and made public by a foreign stock exchange
   on which its securities are traded; or (iii) distributed to security
   holders. The report must be furnished promptly after such material is
   made public. The form is not considered "filed" for Section 18
   liability purposes. This is the only information furnished by foreign
   private issuers between annual reports, since such issuers are not
   required to file on Forms 10-Q or 8-K.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of International Corporate
   Finance

  Form 8-K

   This is the "current report" that is used to report the occurrence of
   any material events or corporate changes which are of importance to
   investors or security holders and previously have not been reported by
   the registrant. It provides more current information on certain
   specified events than would Forms 10-Q or 10-K.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 10-C

   This form must be filed by an issuer whose securities are quoted on the
   Nasdaq interdealer quotation system. Reported on the form is any change
   that exceeds five percent in the number of shares of the class
   outstanding and any change in the name of the issuer. The report must
   be filed within ten days of such change.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Market Regulation - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 10-K

   This is the annual report that most reporting companies file with the
   Commission. It provides a comprehensive overview of the registrant's
   business. The report must be filed within 90 days after the end of the
   company's fiscal year.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 10-KSB

   This is the annual report filed by reporting "small business issuers."
   It provides a comprehensive overview of the company's business,
   although its requirements call for slightly less detailed information
   than required by Form 10-K. The report must be filed within 90 days
   after the end of the company's fiscal year.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel, Office of
   Small Business Policy

  Form 10-Q

   The Form 10-Q is a report filed quarterly by most reporting companies.
   It includes unaudited financial statements and provides a continuing
   view of the company's financial position during the year. The report
   must be filed for each of the first three fiscal quarters of the
   company's fiscal year and is due within 45 days of the close of the
   quarter.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 10-QSB

   The Form 10-QSB is filed quarterly by reporting small business issuers.
   It includes unaudited financial statements and provides a continuing
   view of the company's financial position and results of operations
   throughout the year. The report must be filed for each of the first
   three fiscal quarters and is due within 45 days of the close of the
   quarter.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel, Office of
   Small Business Policy

  Form 11-K

   This form is a special annual report for employee stock purchase,
   savings, and similar plans, interests in which constitute securities
   registered under the 1933 Act. The Form 11-K annual report is required
   in addition to any other annual report of the issuer of the securities
   (e.g., a company's annual report to all shareholders or Form 10-K).
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 12b-25

   This form is used as a notification of late filing by a reporting
   company that determines that is unable to file a required periodic
   report when first due without unreasonable effort or expense. If a
   company files a Form 12b-25, it is entitled to relief, but must file
   the required report within five calendar days (for a Form 10-Q or
   10-QSB) or within fifteen calendar days (for a Form 10-K, 10-KSB, 20-F,
   11-K, or N-SAR).
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 13F

   This is a quarterly report of equity holdings by institutional
   investment managers having equity assets under management of $100
   million or more. Included in this category are certain banks, insurance
   companies, investment advisers, investment companies, foundations and
   pension funds.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Investment Management - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 15

   This form is filed by a company as notice of termination of
   registration under Section 12(g) of the '34 Act, or suspension of the
   duty to file periodic reports under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the '34
   Act.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Form 18

   This form is used for the registration on a national securities
   exchange of securities of foreign governments and political
   subdivisions thereof.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of International Corporate
   Finance

  Form 18-K

   This form is used for the annual reports of foreign governments or
   political subdivisions thereof.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of International Corporate
   Finance

  Schedule 13D

   This Schedule discloses beneficial ownership of certain registered
   equity securities. Any person or group of persons who acquire a
   beneficial ownership of more than 5% of a class of registered equity
   securities of certain issuers must file a Schedule 13D reporting such
   acquisition together with certain other information within ten days
   after such acquisition. Moreover, any material changes in the facts set
   forth in the Schedule generally precipitates a duty to promptly file an
   amendment on Schedule 13D.

   The Commission's rules define the term "beneficial owner" to be any
   person who directly or indirectly shares voting power or investment
   power (the power to sell the security).
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Tender Offers

  Schedule 13G

   Schedule 13G is a much abbreviated version of Schedule 13D that is only
   available for use by a limited category of "persons" (such as banks,
   broker/dealers, and insurance companies) and even then only when the
   securities were acquired in the ordinary course of business and not
   with the purpose or effect of changing or influencing the control of
   the issuer.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Tender Offers

  Schedule 13E-3

   This schedule must be filed by certain persons engaging in "going
   private" transactions. The schedule must be filed by any company or an
   affiliate of a company who engages in a business combination, tender
   offer, or stock purchase that has the effect of causing a class of the
   company's equity securities registered under the 1934 Act (1) to be
   held by fewer than 300 persons, or (2) to be de-listed from a
   securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system. The filer must
   disclose detailed information about the transaction, including whether
   the filer believes the transaction to be fair.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Tender Offers

  Schedule 13E-4

   This schedule (called an Issuer Tender Offer Statement) must be filed
   by certain reporting companies that make tender offers for their own
   securities. In addition, Rule 13e-4 under the 1934 Act imposes
   additional requirements than an issuer must comply with when making an
   issuer tender offer.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Tender Offers

  Schedule 13E-4F

   This schedule may be used by a Canadian foreign private issuer that
   makes an issuer tender offer for its equity shares (provided that U.S.
   holders hold less than 40 percent of the class of shares subject to the
   offer). It serves as a wraparound for the relevant Canadian disclosure
   documents. The Canadian issuer must comply with relevant Canadian
   tender offer regulations.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of International Corporate
   Finance

  Information Statement (Regulation 14C/Schedule 14C)

   Schedule 14C sets forth the disclosure requirements for information
   statements. Generally, a company with securities registered under
   Section 12 of the '34 Act must send an information statement to every
   holder of the registered security who is entitled to vote on any matter
   for which the company is not soliciting proxies. (If the company
   solicits proxies, Regulation 14C/Schedule 14A may be required.)
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

  Schedule 14D-1

   Any person, other than the issuer itself (see Schedule 13E-4), making a
   tender offer for certain equity securities registered pursuant to
   Section 12 of the '34 Act, which offer, if accepted, would cause that
   person to own over 5 percent of that class of the securities, must at
   the time of the offer file a Schedule 14D-1. This schedule must be
   filed with the Commission and sent to certain other parties, such as
   the issuer and any competing bidders. In addition, Regulation 14D sets
   forth certain requirements that must be complied with in connection
   with a tender offer.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Tender Offers

  Schedule 14D-1F

   Any person making a tender offer for securities of a Canadian foreign
   private issuer may use this schedule if U.S. holders hold less than 40
   percent of the class of securities that is the subject of the offer and
   if the bidder extends the tender offer to U.S. holders on terms that
   are at least as favorable as those extended to any other holder. The
   schedule serves as a wraparound for the relevant Canadian disclosure
   documents. In addition, the tender offer must comply with relevant
   Canadian requirements.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of International Corporate
   Finance

  Schedule 14D-9

   This schedule must be filed with the Commission when an interested
   party, such as an issuer, a beneficial owner of securities, or a
   representative of either, makes a solicitation or recommendation to the
   shareholders with respect to a tender offer which is subject to
   Regulation 14D.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Tender Offers

  Schedule 14D-9F

   Schedule 14D-9F may be used by a Canadian foreign private issuer or by
   any of its directors or officers when the issuer is the subject of a
   tender offer filed on Schedule 14D-1F. The schedule is used to respond
   to tender offers. The schedule serves as a wraparound for the relevant
   Canadian disclosure documents. In addition, the filer must comply with
   all relevant Canadian requirements.
   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of International Corporate
   Finance

Trust Indenture Act of 1939 - Forms

   T-1 This form is a statement of eligibility and qualification of a
       corporation to act as a trustee under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
   T-2 This form is basically the same as Form T-1 except it is to be used
       for individual, rather than corporate trustees.
   T-3 This form is used as an application for qualification of indentures
       pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, but only when securities
       to be issued thereunder are not required to be registered under the
       Securities Act of 1933.
   T-4 This form is used to apply for an exemption from certain provisions
       of the Trust Indenture Act.
   T-6 This form is used by a foreign corporation as an application to act
       as sole trustee under an indenture qualified under the Trust Indenture
       Act.

   Interpretive Responsibility:
   Division of Corporation Finance - Office of Chief Counsel

   http://www.sec.gov/info/edgar/forms.htm
     __________________________________________________________________

   Home | Previous Page

                        Modified: 05/29/2001
