http://payloads.msfc.nasa.gov/FD40/

                      Ground Systems Department (FD40)


   [PFD-tiny.gif] Flight Project
   Directorate

   FD40 Projects
   EHS
     POIC
         TReK
         PDL
         PPS
      Shuttle Support
      Chandra

   FD40 Groups
      FD41
      FD42
      FD43

   FD40 Papers
      Chronologically



          The Ground Systems Department (GSD) is in the business of
      implementing ground systems which support spaceflight operations.
     This includes the development and operation of voice systems, video
         systems, and virtually any data system (command, telemetry,
     planning, etc.) which our customers need to plan, train and fly our
                             programs' missions.

                                  Overview

   The Ground Systems Department

   The Ground Systems Department (GSD) is in the business of implementing
   ground systems which support spaceflight operations. This includes the
   development and operation of voice systems, video systems, and
   virtually any data system (command, telemetry, planning, etc.) which
   our customers need to plan, train and fly our programs' missions.

   Current Missions

   The GSD is supporting the development of the International Space
   Station (ISS) payload ground facilities, primarily in the Huntsville
   Operations Support Center (Bldg 4663 at MSFC). These facilities will
   allow the Payload Operations and Integration teams to perform the
   program-wide function of integration of ISS payload operations, and the
   detailed management of US payload operations.
     * Payload Operations Integration Center (POIC) - to allow realtime
       monitor and control of onboard systems by both the integration team
       in the HOSC and by remote scientists.

                               [PCA_busy.jpg]
     * Payload Data Services System (PDSS) - to distribute high-rate
       payload science data to the payload customers.
     * US Operations Center (USOC) - to allow payload customers to bring
       their specialized equipment into the HOSC and plug into the HOSC
       data systems for special processing functions. This accommodates
       users who, for some reason, do not want to operate remotely in
       their own facility.
     * Payload Planning System (PPS) - to allow the planners of the
       payloads timeline to schedule and analyze the payload operations,
       and send the payload plan to MCC-Houston for integration to the
       overall ISS plan.
     * Payload Data Library (PDL) - to allow payload customers to provide
       an integrated input of operations characteristics and requirements
       to support their payload

   Pictures from FD40 Once development of all these facilities are
   completed, the maintenance and operations teams in the Ground Systems
   Department will keep the systems humming and the data flowing.. This
   will allow the operations cadre to orchestrate the science operations
   of the International Space Station, so that the scientists of many
   nations can fully leverage on the capabilities of this orbiting
   laboratory.

   For the ISS program, we are also providing data systems to Kennedy
   Space Center to be used in the Payload Checkout and Test Facility. This
   will be used to check out ISS components before they are placed in the
   Shuttle for transport to the on-orbit ISS.

   The Telescience Resource Kit (TReK): Remote Science At Last!

   Our most innovative development for the ISS program is under the
   Telescience Resource Kit (TReK) project. This project puts a science
   user's data system needs (command, telemetry, etc.) in one PC-class
   computer at the remote science user's location. This will provide
   geographically diverse and cost-effective operations for both NASA and
   the science user. Additionally, our team is developing methods to
   provide low-cost broadcast ISS video and mission voice system
   interfaces integrated into that one remote user PC, whether it is a
   TReK platform or a similar remote user system. This innovation will
   begin a new era of commercial avenues for low-cost telescience
   operations for NASA's ISS science customers. For more info on TReK.

   TReK is part of an overall telescience capability that is being
   developed by MSFC. Ultimately, NASA will provide the voice and video
   connectivity which is required for remote science operations, and it
   will be integrated into the same PC platform that TReK uses. The remote
   scientist will process his data and perhaps even send commands to the
   spacecraft with the TReK software on his PC, while he listens and talks
   to mission controllers and astronatuts using the voice system on his
   PC. And he will be able to watch the astronauts tending his payload
   with video-in-a-window. The Ground Systems Department teams are making
   the era of truly remote science operations possible at last, in one
   low-cost integrated package.

   Other Programs

   For the Chandra X-Ray Observatory (CXO) program, MSFC has supported the
   CXO mission operations work by providing some initial mission
   operations expertise and staffing, and by developing the ground system
   in the Operations Control Center in Cambridge Massachusetts. Also, a
   test and integration facility at MSFC in the Huntsville Operations
   Support Center remains online to support the CXO OCC in case of
   operations problems.

                                   See the
                                   QTVR of
                                   Payload
                                   Control
                                    Area




    Updated May 15, 2000. Contacts
