http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/kids.htm

   Department of Commerce

   National Oceanic &
   Atmospheric Administration

                             Kid's Corner Banner
   Home Button Headquarter Offices Button Regional Offices and Science
   Centers Button Legislation and Budget Button Publications Button Search
   Button Kid's Korner Button



   Seahorse

   NOAA's education site button

     NOAA's many educational activities are distributed across the agency.
   This site has been designed to help students, teachers, librarians and
   the general public access the many educational activities,
   publications, and booklets that have been produced. [kidfishing.jpg]
   seahorse
     Marine careers button Interested in learning more about careers in
   marine biology and other marine sciences? If so, this site will
   introduce you to those fields and to scientists in them.
   seahorse National Under Sea Research Program button NURP serves NOAA's
   mission to describe and predict changes in the Earth's environment and
   to conserve and manage wisely the Nation's coastal and marine
   resources. Advanced undersea technologies and techniques are used to
   explore, describe, study and understand the vast ocean environments and
   resources that are critical to our planet's survival.  seahorse
     This is a puzzle using Flash. You can move the pieces into the spaces
   provided to makke a picture of a sea turtle. Try this fun puzzle.
   seahorse Coloring page button Come color with us.  See our children's
   coloring page. seahorse
     This is a flash based guessing game, it does not contain vital
   information. Come Play a game with  us.  Test your knowledge of
   different sea life. There is a new question each week.
   seahorse

   NOAA Fisheries Bring Your Child to Work Program 2001
     * Whales, Snail and Fish Tales
     * Fish Print Shirt

   Here are some links to other education resources within NOAA Fisheries:

   Alaska Center's Science Resource Guide
   Alaska Center's National Marine Mammal Education Web page
   seahorse
