http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/projects/srm.htm

                             SED navigation bar

Measurement Services (SRMs and Calibrations)
     __________________________________________________________________


   Contact Jim Filliben
   Statistical Engineering Division
   Information Technology Laboratory
   301-975-2855
   james.filliben@nist.gov
   Impetus/How Project Began Measurement services support the NIST
   Standard Reference Materials Program (SRMs), NIST calibration services,
   and NIST Standard Reference Datasets. This project represents a
   responsibility of the Statistical Engineering Division that has been
   ongoing almost since the division was formed in 1947.

   Over the years, the SRM activity has grown from dealing with only a few
   selected (SRMs) to the current situation in which essentially all NIST
   SRMs receive some amount of statistical attention.

   The customers for these services are industry and
   scientists/researchers who need NIST-traceable standards.
   Objective(s) The objective of this project is assure that
   certifications and uncertainty statements associated with NIST Standard
   Reference Materials are on a solid scientific foundation. SRMs are
   artifacts or chemical mixtures that are manufactured according to
   strict specifications, and are then certified by NIST for one or more
   physical or chemical properties of interest. SRMs are a primary vehicle
   used by NIST for disseminating measurement technology to industry.
   Staff of the Statistical Engineering Division (SED) collaborate with
   NIST scientists on:
    1. validation of the measurement method;
    2. design of a prototype;
    3. stability testing;
    4. characterization of measurement error; and
    5. certification and uncertainty analysis.

   Statisticians advise on the design and analysis of experiments at all
   phases of this process.
   Staffing Profile and Funding This project entails 2.5 FTEs.

   The funding for this project is
     $200K STRS
     $200K SRM
     =====
     $400K TOTAL

   Timeline/
   Milestones Timelines and milestones differ depending on the SRM,
   calibration, or STRD. Development of a new SRM can take two to five
   years, but many projects reach completion in any given year.
   NIST Involvement SRM's are performed in most NIST laboratories and
   involve many different scientists. The following is a partial list of
   NIST divisions and scientists involved in SRM's during the past year.
     * Building Environments Division, BFRL (Bob Zarr)
     * Precision Engineering Division, MEL (Joseph Fu, Theodore Vorburger,
       Junfeng Song, Michael Postek, James Potzick)
     * Optical Technology, PL (Simon Kaplan and Leonard Hannsen)
     * Radiation Physics Division, PL (Michael Schultz)
     * Semiconductor Electronics, EEEL (James Ehrstein)
     * Optoelectronics Division, EEEL (Sarah Gilbert)
     * Ceramics Division, MSEL (Patrick Pei, George Quinn, James Kline,
       Mario Cellarosi, James Kelley, Dennis Minor, Winnie Wong-Ng)
     * Materials Reliability Division, MSEL (Thomas Siewart)
     * Polymers Division, MSEL (Carl Schultheisz)
     * Metallurgy Division, MSEL (Lydon Swartzendruber, Samuel Lo, Carlos
       Beauchamp)
     * Process Measurements Division, CSTL (Vern Bean, Gregory Strouse)
     * Surface and Microanalysis Division, CSTL (George Klouda, David
       Simons, Richard Cavanagh, Ryna Marinenko)
     * Analytical Chemistry Division, CSTL (Stephen Wise, Frank , David
       Duewer, Greg Turk, Robert Watters, Karen Murphy, John Sieber,
       Robert Greenberg, Paula Berezansky, Sam Margolis, Donald Becker,
       Robert Vocke, Thomas Vetter, Reenie Parris, Peter Pella, Mike
       Epstein)
     * Standard Reference Materials Program, TS (Charles Beck, Bruce
       MacDonald, Nancy Trahey)

   Outside Involvement Outside cooperation on chemical SRMs involves
   measurements by laboratories using analytical methods other than
   methods in use at NIST. Outside involvement can also involve
   individuals and/or standards committees (e.g., ASTM, ANSI, ISO) where
   measurement methods are vetted and standardized and under whose
   auspices interlaboratory analyses for characterizing the SRM are
   carried out.
   What Work Has ITL Done The SED typically handles the design and
   analysis of experiments for approximately fifty SRMs per year. Many of
   these SRMs are certified for multiple elements from two or three
   measurement methods whose differences must be reconciled and results
   combined to produce the certified values.

   The SED maintains an internal web page for the convenience of SRMP and
   NIST clients for tracking the progress of SRMs within the division.
   What Work Has Been Done By Collaborators Most SRMs are certified on the
   basis of measurement experiments conducted and evaluated at NIST. In
   addition, collaborating outside laboratories report measurements on SRM
   materials and associated uncertainties to NIST as part of the
   certification procedure for some SRMs.
   What Developments Have Occurred and How Has the Project Changed Because
   of the large numbers of SRMs in production at NIST, the SED has
   searched for ways to routinize certifications and uncertainty
   assessments for SRMs that are restocked on a regular schedule. A
   process has been put in place for assessing homogeneity and computing
   certified values and associated uncertainties for' gas cylinder SRMs
   where data are taken according to a standardized design and then can be
   analyzed using SED-designed spreadsheet templates. This program has
   proven successful so that these chemists now look to SED for
   specialized guidance only where data exhibit anomalous behavior.
   Publications or Artifacts The following are SRM related publications.

   G. A. Candela, D. Chandler-Horowitz, J. F. Marchiando, D. B. Novotny,
   B. J. Belzer, M. C. Croarkin. "Standard Reference Materials:
   Preparation and Certification of SRM-2530, Ellipsometric Parameters and
   Psi and Derived Thickness and Refractive Index of a Silicon Dioxide
   Layer on Silicon," NIST Special Publication 260-109, 1988.

   S. Schiller, S. and Keith R. Eberhardt. "Combining Data from
   Independent Chemical Analysis Methods," Spectrochimica Acta, December,
   1991.

   D. Becker, R. Christensen,L. Currie, B. Diamondstone, K. Eberhardt, T.
   Gills, H. Hertz, G. Klouda, J. Moody, R. Parris, R. Schaffer, E. Steel,
   J. Taylor, R. Watters and R. Zeisler. "Use of NIST Standard Reference
   Materials for Decisions on Performance of Analytical Chemical Methods
   and Laboratories," NIST Special Publication 829, 1992, 30 pp.

   J. Fu, M. C. Croarkin and T. V. Vorburger. "The Measurement and
   Uncertainty of a Calibration Standard for the Scanning Electron
   Microscope." NIST Journal of Research., Vol. 99(2), 1994, p.191-200.

   Schantz, M. M., Loster, B. J., Oakley, L. M., Schiller, S. B., and
   Wise, S.A. "Certification of SRM 1945, Organics in Whale Blubber,"
   Proceeding of the Sixth International Symposium on Biological and
   Environmental Reference Materials, 1994.

   Schantz, M. M., Loster, B. J., Oakley, L. M., Schiller, S. B, and Wise,
   S.A. "Certification of Polychlorinated Biphenyl Congeners in a Whale
   Blubber Standard Reference Material," Journal of Analytical Chemistry,
   Vol 67, No 5, March 1, 1995.

   K.J. Coakley, S.S.-C. Tai, R.G. Christensen, P. Ellerbe, T. Long, M.
   Welch. "The Certification of Phencyclidine in Lyophilized Human Urine
   Reference Materials," Journal of Analytical Chemistry, 20, 1996, pp.
   43-49.

   T.V. Vorburger, J. F. Song, C.H.W. Giauque, T.B. Renegar, E.P.
   Whitenton, C. Croarkin. "Stylus-laser Surface Calibration System,"
   Precision Engineering, 1996, p. 157-163.

   M.G. Vangel, M.S. Levenson, M. Behlke, R. Saraswati, E. Mackey, R.
   Demiralp, B. Porter, V. Mandic, S. Azemard, M. Horvat, K. May, H.
   Emons, S. Wise. "Certification of Three Mussel Tissue Standard
   Reference Materials (SRMs) for Methylmercury and Total Mercury
   Content," Freenius', Journal of Analytic Chemistry, Vol 358, No 3,
   1997, pp. 431-440.

   C.M. Wang and J.D. Splett, "Consensus values and reference values
   illustrated by the Charpy machine certification program," Journal of
   Testing Evaluation, 25 (3), 1997, pp. 308-314.

   J. R. Ehrstein and C. Croarkin. "Standard Reference Materials: The
   Certification of 100 mm Diameter Silicon Resistivity SRMs 2541 through
   2547 using Dual-Configuration Four-Point Probe Measurements," NIST
   Special Publication 260-131, August 1997, 84p.

   A.L. Rukhin and M.G. Vangel, "Estimation of a Common Mean and Weighted
   Means Statistics," Journal of the American Statistical Association, 93,
   pp. 303-309, 1998.

   S.L. Gilbert, W.C. Swann and C. M. Wang. "Standard Reference Materials:
   Hydrogen Cyanide H(13)(14)N Absorption Reference for 1530-1560 nm
   Wavelength Calibration - SRM 2519," NIST Special Publication 260-137,
   1998.

   C.M. Wang, C.N. McCowan, D.P. Vigliotti. "Charpy Impact Verification
   Data (1994-1996): A Summary," Journal of Testing and Evaluation, 27,
   (2), 1999, pp. 89-99.

   G. W. Mulholland, N. P. Bryner, C. Croarkin. "Measurement of the 100 nm
   NIST SRM 1963 by Differential Mobility Analysis," submitted.

   L.M. Gill, V. Iyengar, R. Greenberg, J. Colbert, W. Wolf.
   "Certification of Proximate Constituents, Minor, and Trace Elements in
   Standard Reference Material, SRM 1548a: Typical Diet," Journal of the
   Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) International,
   submitted.

   L.M. Gill, K.E. Sharpless, M. Arce-Osuna, J. Brown Thomas. "Value
   Assignment of Retinol, Retinyl Palmitate,Tocopherol, and Carotenoid
   Concentrations in Standard Reference Material 2383: Baby Food
   Composite," Journal of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists
   (AOAC) International, to appear.

   L.M. Gill, K.E. Sharpless, S.A. Margolis, S.A. Wise. "Certification of
   Nutrient Concentration in Standard Reference Material 2383: Baby Food
   Composite," Journal of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists
   (AOAC) International, to appear.

   M.S. Levenson (with S.A. Margolis). "Water Saturated 1-Octanol, a
   Calibrant at Microgram Water Levels for Karl Fischer Reagents and
   Instruments," submitted.

   M.G. Vangel (with D.L. Poster, M.M. Schantz, and S.A. Wise). "Analysis
   of Standard Reference Material 1649A, Organics in Urban Dust, for the
   Determination of Chlorinated Organic Contaminants Associated With
   Atmospheric Particulate Matter," Environmental Science and Technology,
   submitted.

   R.R. Zarr and E. S. Lagergren. "Development of Thermal Insulation
   Standard Reference Materials Using 'Good' Experiment Design," Proc. of
   24th International Thermal Conductivity Conference and 12th
   International Thermal Expansion Symposium, 1998.
   What Industries Have Benefited From NIST's Work and How SRMs are sold
   to industry for calibrating scientific instruments over an incredibly
   large variety of chemical, material, dimensional, and optical
   applications. NIST SRMs offer the highest level of accuracy for this
   technology transfer, and the success of the program depends entirely on
   the quality of the SRM certifications and their uncertainties.
   Acknowledgements of the ITL's Effort The Certificate issued with each
   SRM carries an acknowledgement of the statistician(s) who collaborated
   on the certification project. In addition, the Standard Reference
   Materials Program issues a memorandum of appreciation to the
   statistician who collaborated on each project.
   Future Related Activities Techniques for routinizing other SRMs, such
   as those measured entirely by outside laboratories and issued as NIST
   traceable materials, will be developed and adopted in the future. Over
   the years, statements of uncertainty, as they appear on SRM
   certificates, have been more diverse than uniform, and this creates a
   problem both for the user community and the Standard Reference
   Materials Program. SED has been working toward the development and
   adoption of coherent, uniform methods for reporting uncertainties.
   Additional Information Nothing to report.

   Date created: 6/5/2001
   Last updated: 6/19/2001
   Please email comments on this WWW page to sedwww@cam.nist.gov.
