http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/pr/2001/010207.soty.scorza.htm

            Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information
                                          Latest news | Subscribe

                                  Links to:
                               Awards web site
                            National news release
                        Story about Scorza's research

       Scientists Ralph Scorza (left) and Richard Bell: Link to photo
                                 information


         ARS Recognizes Scorza for Innovative Fruit Tree Improvement

                               By Judy McBride
                              February 7, 2001

    BELTSVILLE, Md., Feb. 7—Ralph Scorza, a research horticulturist with
       the Agricultural Research Service (ARS), will today receive the
   agency’s Scientist of the Year 2000 award for the North Atlantic area.
    He is being recognized for his pioneering contributions to tree fruit
                                improvement.

     Scorza, who conducts research at the ARS Appalachian Fruit Research
    Station in Kearneysville, W. Va., is cited “for developing important
       new knowledge, for leadership in integrating basic and applied
     research, and for the application of innovative approaches to fruit
                             tree improvement.”

   Scorza and other ARS scientists of the year 2000 will be honored today
   at a 1:00 p.m. ceremony at the agency's headquarters in Beltsville, Md.
  As one of four “area senior research scientists,” Scorza will receive a
   plaque, a cash award and an additional $15,000 support for his research
                                  program.

      “Dr. Scorza pioneered fruit tree biotechnology and is recognized
        nationally and internationally as a leader in this field. His
    innovative approaches have led to the first virus- resistant tree or
   woody plant developed anywhere,” said ARS administrator Floyd P. Horn.
    ARS is the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief scientific agency.

     During his 20 years with ARS, Scorza has developed new stone-fruit
    trees through both conventional breeding and genetic engineering. His
   most impressive success is a transgenic plum tree resistant to plum pox
     virus--one of the most serious diseases of stone fruits worldwide.
    Several years of field tests in Poland, Romania and Spain, where the
     virus is endemic, have confirmed the tree’s resistance. And it’s
   becoming important for U.S. growers. Plum pox virus was first detected
    on the East Coast in the fall of 1999, confirming Scorza’s foresight
                      about the threat of this disease.

     Scorza has also provided leadership and collaboration with ARS and
                            university scientists

    in producing the first transgenic clones of a major grape variety. In
    collaboration with other ARS scientists, he developed transgenic pear
    trees that remain dwarfed throughout their life--a major need for the
     pear industry--and has established a link with industry to transfer
   genes for resistance to fire blight--a devastating bacterial disease of
                           pear trees in the East.

   “He has shown that a true integration of biotechnology and horticulture
          is possible through a coordinated approach,” Horn added.

   Using classical breeding, Scorza developed or co-developed 'Bounty' and
      'Sentry'--two of the major peach cultivars now grown in the East.
    Income for New Jersey growers alone from these two varieties is about
    $2.5 million annually, with many trees not yet at bearing age. A new
    peach from Scorza’s research grows in a narrow, columnar shape. Now
     being tested in 12 states and three foreign countries, the columnar
     tree promises to change the shape of peach orchards into efficient,
                      high-density production systems.

     Scorza has been invited to speak at numerous meetings in the United
     States, Canada, Guatemala, India, China and throughout Europe. Last
    March, he taught an international course on fruit tree improvement in
                              Zaragosa, Spain.

        He has authored or co-authored 110 publications--including 62
    scientific journal articles and eight book chapters. He is currently
          co-editing a book on transgenic food crops. The American
   Phytopathological Society’s plum pox web site (http://www.scisoc.org/)
        carries a presentation by Scorza and his team to the society.

     A member of the American Society for Horticultural Science, Scorza
     serves as associate editor for biotechnology for the ASHS journal.

   He attended the University of Florida, receiving a bachelor’s degree in
    agronomy in 1972 and a master’s degrees in fruit crops physiology in
        1975. He earned a doctoral degree in horticulture from Purdue
                             University in 1979.

      Scorza lives in Sherperdstown, W. Va., with his wife, Marsha, son
                        Cameron, and daughter Pamela.

    Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., and raised in Ormond Beach, Fla., he attended
     Fr. Lopez High School. His parents, Enzo and Esther Scorza, live in
                                Ormond Beach.

         Contact: Beth Holt, ARS Appalachian Fruit Research Station,
       Kearneysville, W.Va., phone (304) 725-3451, ext. 326, fax (301)
                     728-7232, bholt@afrs.ars.usda.gov.

                       Top | News Staff | Photo Staff

         Bottom menu

         Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
         About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
