http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eospso_members/mking.html


                        Home, Feedback, Search Links
                        Main Sections Navigation Bar
   Where you are: Who's Who in EOS : EOS Project Scientists : Dr. Michael
                                    King
            Earth Observing System Project Science Office Banner

   Picture of Dr. King Dr. Michael King
   EOS Senior Project Scientist
   Code 900
   Goddard Space Flight Center
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   Greenbelt, MD 20771
   USA
   Phone: (301) 614-5636
   Fax: (301) 614-5620
   Email: king@climate.gsfc.nasa.gov
   Michael D. King is Senior Project Scientist of NASA's Earth Observing
   System (EOS), a position he has held since 1992. He also serves as
   Principal Investigator and Team Leader of the Atmosphere Discipline
   Group of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)
   science team and is a member of the science team of the Clouds and the
   Earth's Radiant Energy System (CERES) instrument. MODIS and CERES are
   both key instruments on the EOS Terra and Aqua satellites. He received
   the BA degree in physics from Colorado College in 1971 and the MS and
   PhD degrees in atmospheric sciences from the University of Arizona in
   1973 and 1977, respectively, and joined Goddard Space Flight Center as
   a Physical Scientist in the Climate and Radiation Branch, Laboratory
   for Atmospheres, in January 1978.
   Dr. King's research experience includes conceiving, developing, and
   operating multispectral scanning radiometers from a number of aircraft
   platforms in field experiments ranging from arctic stratus clouds to
   smoke from the Kuwait oil fires and biomass burning in Brazil and
   southern Africa. He has lectured on global change on all seven
   continents. Earlier, he developed the Cloud Absorption Radiometer for
   studying the absorption properties of optically thick clouds as well as
   the bidirectional reflectance properties of many natural surfaces. As a
   member of the MODIS science team, he is responsible for algorithms
   being run routinely to process MODIS data to derive cloud optical and
   microphysical properties (cloud optical thickness and effective
   particle radius of both water and ice clouds), and global combined
   atmosphere products at 1° x 1° latitude/longitude resolution, averaged
   over a day, eight days, and monthly.
   Dr. King is a Fellow of the American Meteorological Society (AMS), and
   is a recipient of the Verner E. Suomi Award of the AMS for fundamental
   contributions to remote sensing and radiative transfer. He received an
   honorary doctorate from Colorado College in 1995, and is a Goddard
   Senior Fellow and recipient of the NASA Outstanding Leadership Medal,
   NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal, and NASA Exceptional
   Service Medal. He has also received the William Nordberg Memorial Award
   for Earth Science, Goddard's highest scientific achievement award. He
   is also an Adjunct Professor of Meteorology at the University of
   Maryland and Adjunct Professor of Oceanography at Dalhousie University.

          Home Icon HOME Search Icon SEARCH Feedback Icon FEEDBACK
