http://hpv-web.lanl.gov/COMPENDIUM_PDF/97PDF/5/WebTour97.pdf

   V COMMUNICATIONS Part V of Human Papillomaviruses 1997 is divided into
   two sections. The first introduces ways of accessing papillomavirus
   information from the World Wide Web (WWW), the second is a list of
   references. Papillomavirus Information on the World Wide Web All of the
   information in Human Papillomaviruses 1997 and its predecessors in
   1994, 1995, and 1996, as well as numerous data files, are available to
   the public through the World Wide Web, a system of links between
   Internet locations that can be navigated with graphical "browsing
   tools" such as Mosaic and Netscape. We are strenuously urging our
   subscribers to make use of our Web site. Using electronic documents and
   data offers many advantages over the production and use of paper
   documents. * It saves paper, ink, metal, solvents, plastics, postage,
   fossil fuels, and time that go into the printing and distribution of
   hundreds of copies of this large book. * Electronic documents that
   contain all the formatting and complex graphics of a printed document
   can now be produced and placed on the Web where users may view and
   print them. For example, an exact replica of this entire document,
   Human Papillomaviruses 1997 is available from our Web site. *
   Electronic documents are readily corrected and kept up to date. As we
   prepared sections of this year's compendium we have been
   "prepublishing" them on our Web site. In this way the latest and most
   accurate information is always available to users. * There is also the
   possibility of interaction between users and the database staff at Los
   Alamos. Just as documents and data can be retrieved from the Web site,
   so can they be posted to the site. * Data and documents on the Web, far
   from being static pieces of paper, are embedded in a system that allows
   searching for items of interest-references, sequences, author names,
   etc. * The Web, as its name implies, is a system of links spread
   throughout the world. Our Web site provides links to other sites that
   are useful to virologists and sequence biologists. * A review and
   recommendation of our site to papilloma-virologists by Robert D. Burk
   appeared in Papillomavirus Report 7:2528. In order to access the WWW,
   you must have, (1) a windowing capability such as X Win- dows, MS
   Windows, or Apple Macintosh, (2) an Internet Protocol (IP) connection,
   and (3) a copy of a browser program such as Mosaic or Netscape for the
   appropriate windows environment. If you are not already using Mosaic (a
   free program) you can get a copy by anonymous ftp from
   ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/Mosaic. Netscape may be purchased by sending
   e-mail to sales@ netscape.com or phoning 415-528-2555. Our use of
   Netscape in the following description of our Web site is purely
   illustrative and should not be construed as an endorsement of that
   product. The browsing tools designed for the WWW make it easier than
   before to locate and acquire information on the Internet. You simply
   point and click at text and objects on your screen. These objects are
   either links to files, which cause the files to be sent to your local
   computer, or they are links to other machines from which files may be
   accessed. "Files" can mean words, pictures, sounds, or movies. The WWW
   address (or "URL") for the HPV database is: http://hpv-web.lanl.gov V-1
   SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web Tour of the World Wide Web We present
   here a short tour of our Web site, which may give the uninitiated a
   feel for how the Web works. Our site on the Web is diagrammed as in the
   illustration below. When you access our site from elsewhere
   (represented by the "IN" arrow) you are at our so-called "home page."
   From here you can follow links, shown as double headed arrows, to our
   data, our publications, or other sites spread across the world. IN
   http://hpv-web.lanl.gov home page DATA PUBLICATIONS 1994 1997 SEQUENCES
   ALIGNMENTS 1995 1996 the world Screen 1 V-2 SEP 97 Using the World Wide
   Web You begin by "launching" your browser program. (The browser in the
   illustrations here is Netscape.) In the Netscape window on your screen
   there appears the starting point for your navigation of the Web (Screen
   2). This starting point can be any address you have specified, it could
   even be the HPV database URL; by default it is the Netscape "home
   page." Screen 2 V-3 SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web From your starting
   point you select "Open Location" from the File menu in the upper left
   corner of the window. A small window entitled Open Location appears,
   you type in the URL of the HPV Database http://hpv-web.lanl.gov in the
   space provided (Screen 3), and click Open. You can also store
   frequently visited URLs in a list called "bookmarks" or "hotlist" and
   select your destination from this list rather than typing its URL.
   Screen 3 V-4 SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web After a few seconds a new
   image appears in the window (Screen 4), the home page of the HPV
   Database. The text in the window is formatted and pleasantly readable.
   All the text on the home page cannot fit on the screen at once, but you
   can scroll through it by clicking your mouse on the down arrow in the
   lower right. Screen 4 V-5 SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web There are two
   branches to our site: (1) publications and (2) data. We will follow the
   data branch first. As you scroll down through our home page you come to
   an area labeled "II. Data" as shown here. The data area of this Web
   site contains links to genetic sequences of papillomaviruses stored in
   GenBank, EMBL, and SWISS-PROT formats. It also contains links to
   alignments of papillomavirus genes and their proteins. Some of the text
   is underlined and, on color monitors, shows in a different color. These
   underlined words are links to other locations on the WWW. The locations
   may be local or they may be on computers half way around the world; the
   links to them look exactly the same and are activated in the same way.
   If we position our cursor arrow at one of the links, as we have in
   Screen 5, the arrow turns into a pointing hand. Pressing the mouse
   button transfers us quickly and automatically to the location attached
   to that link. In our example the finger points to HPV Sequence Search.
   Screen 5 V-6 SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web Upon clicking HPV Sequence
   Search the search area appears on the screen. An explanation of how to
   use the search utility is included in the window. We type in a search
   pattern-in this example CRPV, the GenBnak Locus Name of a
   papillomavirus-and hit the carriage return. Screen 6 V-7 SEP 97 Using
   the World Wide Web The result of the search, an abbreviated GenBank
   file, appears. We can retrieve the entire file by positioning the
   pointing hand on the link called Sequence and clicking. Screen 7 V-8
   SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web The result, the complete GenBank file,
   is shown in Screen 8. This file may be transferred to your local
   computer in its entirety by clicking on "File" in the menu bar at the
   top of the screen and selecting "Save As . . . " from that menu. Our
   search mechanism is currently quite primitive. You can only search for
   GenBank files. If you are interested in EMBL-format files you will need
   to find them "by hand" on atlas. Screen 8 V-9 SEP 97 Using the World
   Wide Web As we follow a series of links on the WWW, the browser
   remembers the places we have been and allows us to return to them by
   clicking the "Back" button located at the top left corner of the
   window. If we return to the HPV home page we can follow links that lead
   down the publications branch of this site, the "on-line version of the
   Human Papillomaviruses compendia." To reach these publications we can
   click the colored book cover illustrations at the top of the home page
   or we can follow the links under part "I. The HPV Compendium," also on
   the home page. Either way we arrive at the page displayed below. This
   page introduces the on-line version of our publication and describes
   the Adobe Acrobat viewer which you will need to view the publications.
   The viewer is free and can be obtained by following the link indicated.
   Screen 9 V-10 SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web We can view the tables of
   contents of the 1994, 1995, or 1996 Human Papillomaviruses publication
   either by clicking on the links in the first line, or scrolling down
   the page to where the Tables of Contents begin. The graphic below shows
   a part of the table of contents of the 1996 book. The pointing hand is
   about to retrieve the Introduction to Part I. This link, though it
   looks the same as others, behaves differently. A copy of the
   Introduction file is transferred to your local computer and the Adobe
   Acrobat viewer is automatically launched. Acrobat is a "helper
   application" used to read files that are in a format which is
   nonstandard for the WWW. Screen 10 V-11 SEP 97 Using the World Wide Web
   The Acrobat viewer displays the article (see below), which is written
   in "portable document format" (PDF), and allows you to print out a
   perfect copy of it, exactly as it appears in the printed compendium.
   Acrobat viewer has a search mechanism that allows you to search in a
   document for words that might lead you to a subject of interest. For
   example, Part V of the compendium lists hundreds of HPV references.
   Those references are searchable with Acrobat Viewer. Searches for
   specific nucleotide sequences in Part I (e.g. AATAAA) will be less
   useful because of the way GenBank files are formatted, with spaces and
   sequence numbers embedded in the file. Screen 11 V-12 SEP 97 Using the
   World Wide Web Our Web site provides users an opportunity to
   communicate with us from several points on the site. An electronic
   "comments" form can be activated that allows you to write us a letter
   to which we promise to respond. Screen 12 V-13 SEP 97 Using the World
   Wide Web Finally, we have connected our site to several other locations
   of great utility to biologists as shown below. The link to these sites
   occurs at the bottom of the home page. Screen 13 V-14 SEP 97 Using the
   World Wide Web Data Access by FTP The complete database of sequences
   and alignments are also available electronically from a server here at
   Los Alamos called "atlas". In the first section of Part V we described
   accessing this, and other, information using the WWW. You may also
   retrieve information from atlas by the "anonymous ftp" method. In the
   following instructions for accessing atlas, what you actually type at
   your terminal is shown in boldface type [with an explanation shown in
   square brackets]. What the server responds with is shown indented in
   italic type. ftp atlas.lanl.gov [this ftp command connects your
   computer to atlas] Name (atlas.lanl.gov): [atlas asks for your user
   name] anonymous [for offsite users anonymous is the only name that
   works] Guest login ok, send ident as password. Password: [enter your
   e-mail address or your name as ident] Guest login ok. access
   restrictions apply. cd pub [change to the directory called pub] CWD
   command successful cd papilloma ls [this lists the files and
   directories inside of papilloma] SWISS-PROT-files, RoadMap, Alignments,
   ReadMe, EMBL-files, GenBank-files pwd [to show your location in the
   file hierarchy] "/pub/papilloma" is current directory. cd
   GenBank-files/Human-papilloma [move down 2 directories] ls [all the
   GenBank files are listed] get HPV47.gb [this copies the file HPV47.gb
   to your home computer] bye [this disconnects you from the server] A map
   of the HPV directories and files on atlas is reproduced on the
   following page. Many of the directories contain ReadMe files that
   describe the contents. This map also appears on our Web site in a
   clickable form. By clicking on different areas of that map you are
   instantly connected to that part of the database. V-15 SEP 97 Using the
   World Wide Web Instructions for Accessing ftp Server "atlas" In the
   following instructions, what you actually type at your terminal is
   shown in boldface type [with an AUGUST 1997 * MAP explanation shown in
   square brackets]. What the server responds with is shown indented in
   italic type. OF HPV DATABASE ftp atlas.lanl.gov ON "ATLAS" Name
   (atlas.lanl.gov): anonymous Guest login ok, send ident as password. *
   Data subject to continuous revision Password: [enter your e-mail
   address as ident] Guest login ok. access restrictions apply. cd pub
   [change to the directory called pub] CWD command successful cd
   papilloma ls [this lists the files and directories inside of papilloma]
   SWISS-PROT-files, RoadMap, Alignments, ReadMe, EMBL-files,
   GenBank-files pwd [to show your location in the file hierarchy]
   Sequence Sequences "/pub/papilloma" is current directory. Formats cd
   GenBank-files/Human-papilloma [move down 2 directories] Human
   papillomavirus sequences ls GenBank Animal papillomavirus sequences
   [all the GenBank files are listed] Cellular protein sequences get
   HPV47.gb [this copies the file HPV47.gb to your home computer] bye
   [this disconnects you from the server] Human papillomavirus sequences
   EMBL Animal papillomavirus sequences Cellular protein sequences Human
   papillomavirus sequences Swiss-Prot Animal papillomavirus sequences
   Cellular protein sequences Alignments papilloma Genes nucleotide
   alignment E1 amino acid alignment nucleotide alignment E2 amino acid
   alignment pub nucleotide alignment E4 amino acid alignment nucleotide
   alignment E5 amino acid alignment nucleotide alignment Alignments E6
   amino acid alignment atlas.lanl.gov nucleotide alignment E7 amino acid
   alignment nucleotide alignment L1 amino acid alignment nucleotide
   alignment L2 amino acid alignment LCR nucleotide alignment Complete
   nucleotide alignment Genomes Miscellaneous other directories subject to
   change V-16 SEP 97
