http://www.senate.gov/~rpc/releases/1999/jd121301.htm

   U.S. Senate Republican Policy Committee - Larry E. Craig, Chairman -
   Jade West, Staff Director
               Publications Issue List Vote Analysis Main Page
   December 13, 2001

      Why the House's "Reinsurance Bill" Includes Litigation Management
                                   Reforms

     The two houses of Congress have different ideas about how best to
     provide for Federal guarantees in the reinsurance market. Whatever
     formula is decided upon, however, the taxpayers of the United States
     will become the ultimate insurers for the reinsurers: Huge losses
     caused by acts of terrorism will be paid for by American taxpayers.

     The House of Representatives passed its "reinsurance bill" on
     November 29 (H.R. 3210, the Terrorism Risk Protection Act). Because
     taxpayers will be assuming financial liability, the House included
     various litigation management reforms that will help protect
     taxpayers, and further help ensure that a large proportion of
     limited resources will go to actual victims of terrorism and not to
     trial lawyers and others.

     The House bill also is intended to streamline the process of getting
     aid to victims of terrorism. Many persons are not aware of how long
     some victims have to wait: The September 11 attack on the World
     Trade Center killed more than 3,000 persons and injured thousands
     more. In contrast, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center (from
     the parking garage) killed six persons. The 1993 crime has resulted
     in some 500 lawsuits by 700 individuals, businesses, and insurance
     companies claiming $500 million. Now, eight years after the event,
     many of the cases are just getting to trial, and hundreds of
     plaintiffs have yet to receive a cent.

     On the House floor, Representative James Sensenbrenner, the Chairman
     of the House Judiciary Committee (and a leader for litigation
     reform), explained the need for the reforms. Those reforms are
     summarized in the Appendix to this paper, and Mr. Sensenbrenner said
     of them:

     "I am particularly supportive of the litigation management
     provisions in H.R. 3210 which will benefit all people in all
     industries that fall victim to terrorist attacks of a catastrophic
     nature. Any bill that fails to limit potentially infinite liability
     for terrorist-caused litigation would fail to recognize the obvious:
     Traditional tort rules are designed to address slip-and-fall cases
     caused by banana peels, not terrorists; and while banana peels may
     be accidents waiting to happen, terrorists are suicidal killers
     plotting the deaths of thousands of innocents and the destruction of
     billions of dollars of property.

     "By enacting the litigation management provisions to cover
     terrorist-inspired litigation, individuals and businesses will be
     protected by Congress from potentially unlimited liability and
     bankruptcy. Also under these provisions, the size of damage awards
     for which the United States taxpayer will have to provide up-front
     sums would be reduced, just as the Federal Tort Claims Act's limits
     on punitive damages and attorney's fees limit damages and litigation
     that will result in money taken from the U.S. Treasury.

     "These provisions protect the American taxpayer. Those opposed to
     them wish to turn the key to the United States Treasury over to the
     plaintiffs' bar." 147 Congressional Record H8575 (daily ed. Nov. 29,
     2001) (edited).

     As Chairman Sensenbrenner says, the House's "reinsurance bill" draws
     on precedents from other parts of Federal law. The Federal Tort
     Claims Act permits the United States Government to be sued for tort
     claims "in the same manner and to the same extent as a private
     individual under like circumstances," but the United States "shall
     not be liable for interest prior to judgment or for punitive
     damages." 28 U.S.C.A. §2674. Also, attorney's fees are limited to
     either 25 percent or 20 percent (depending on the particulars of the
     case) for any judgment, award, compromise, or settlement obtained in
     the case, and attorneys who charge more may be fined $2,000 or
     imprisoned for up to a year, or both. 28 U.S.C.A. §2678. All of
     these provisions from the Federal Tort Claims Act can be found in
     the House-passed "reinsurance bill."

     Two other examples were cited on the House floor: The National
     Vaccine Program sets out a procedure for bringing lawsuits for
     injuries caused by vaccines. Under those procedures, "punitive and
     exemplary damages" are not permitted, 42 U.S.C.A. §300aa-15(d), and
     attorney's fees are regulated, 42 U.S.C.A. §300aa-15(e).

     The Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, which
     was signed just weeks ago (on September 22, 2001), provided that
     liability for all claims against air carriers for the events of
     September 11 "shall not be in an amount greater than the limits of
     the liability coverage maintained by" the carrier, and that limit
     applies to both compensatory and punitive damages. Congress also
     required that there be an exclusive Federal cause of action for
     damages arising out of the four airline crashes of September 11, and
     that the substantive law would be derived from the State in which
     the crash occurred. Original and exclusive jurisdiction was given to
     the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
     York. The United States was given the right of subrogation with
     respect to any claim paid by the United States. Of course, any
     person who knowingly participated in any conspiracy to hijack an
     aircraft or commit an act of terrorism was expressly excluded from
     any limits on liability. Public Law 107-42, §§408-409. Such
     provisions also are found in the House's "reinsurance bill." (As the
     bill originally passed the House, it limited punitive damages and
     attorney's fees, and it required that damage awards be offset by any
     collateral-source compensation received by the plaintiffs.)

     The House bill is based on precedents that help protect taxpayers
     and victims alike.
       _______________________________________________________________

                                  Appendix

     Summary of Section 15 of the House-Passed Version of H.R. 3210, The
                        Terrorism Risk Protection Act

     Section 15 is titled, "Litigation Management". It provides:
     * Whenever the Secretary of Treasury determines that an act of
       terrorism has occurred, any legal claim "arising out of, relating
       to, or resulting from" that act of terrorism must be filed in
       Federal court.
     * The Secretary's determination, which is effective when published in
       the Federal Register, is not subject to judicial review, but it may
       be amended by the Secretary.
     * (Section 19 of the bill defines as an "act of terrorism" as an act
       that (a) is unlawful; (b) causes harm to a person, property, or
       entity in the United States or on a U.S. air carrier or U.S. flag
       vessel; (c) is committed by (or in conspiracy with) persons or
       groups designated, either before or after the act, as an
       international terrorist group; (d) has as its purpose (1) the
       overthrow or destabilization of any country's government, or (2) to
       influence or affect U.S. policy or the U.S. economy, by coercion;
       and (e) is not an act of war.)
     * The Federal cause of action that is created by the Secretary's
       determination will be the exclusive remedy available to claimants,
       but the Federal court will apply the substantive law of the State
       in which the act of terrorism occurred (unless that law is
       inconsistent with or preempted by Federal law).
     * Once the Secretary has declared that an act of terrorism has
       occurred, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (a group
       of seven judges selected by the Chief Justice) will designate one
       or more Federal district courts which will have original and
       exclusive jurisdiction over legal actions for claims arising from
       that act of terrorism. The courts designated shall be chosen "based
       on the convenience of the parties and the just and efficient
       conduct of the proceedings."
     * "No punitive damages intended to punish or deter, exemplary
       damages, or other damages not intended to compensate a plaintiff
       for actual losses may be awarded."
     * No party shall be liable for interest prior to the judgment.
     * A defendant shall not be liable jointly and severally, but shall be
       liable only for the amount of noneconomic damages that are
       attributed to the defendant's own acts.
     * No plaintiff may recover noneconomic damages unless the plaintiff
       suffered physical harm.
     * The act defines "noneconomic damages" to mean "damages for losses
       for physical and emotional pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical
       impairment, mental anguish, disfigurement, loss of enjoyment of
       life, loss of society and companionship, loss of consortium,
       hedonic damages, injury to reputation, and any other nonpecuniary
       losses."
     * Any reward to a plaintiff shall be reduced by the amount of
       "collateral-source compensation, if any, that the plaintiff has
       received or is entitled to receive as a result of the acts of
       terrorism."
     * "Reasonable attorneys fees for work performed shall be subject to
       the discretion of the court, but in no event shall any attorney
       charge, demand, receive, or collect for services rendered, fees or
       compensation in an amount in excess of 20 percent of the damages
       ordered by the court or of a court-approved settlement." Attorneys
       who charge or receive more may be fined and sentenced to a year in
       jail.
     * The above rules do not apply to terrorists themselves or to those
       who aid or abet or conspire with them.
     * Whenever a party obtains a judgment against a terrorist party, the
       "frozen assets of that terrorist party, or any agency or
       instrumentality of that terrorist party, shall be available for
       satisfaction of the judgment." The President may prohibit access to
       certain frozen assets if he determines that it is in the national
       security interest to protect property that is subject to the Vienna
       Convention on Diplomatic Relations or the Vienna Convention on
       Consular Relations.
     * "The United States shall have the right of subrogation with respect
       to any claim paid by the United States under this Act." That is, if
       the United States pays a claim it can then seek reimbursement from
       any other entity that has a legal responsibility to pay that claim.
     * Nothing in the Act is to be construed to affect any party's
       contractual right to arbitrate a dispute.
     * Nothing in the Act is to be construed to affect any provision of
       the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Public
       Law 107-42, 49 U.S.C. 40101 note. As noted in the body of this
       paper, sections 408 and 409 of that Act contain litigation
       provisions that are similar to those in the "reinsurance" bill.

             Top Publications Issue List Vote Analysis Main Page
