http://bxatac.doc.gov/0613MMTG.TXT

   MATERIALS TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE Notice of Partially Closed
   Meeting The Materials Technical Advisory Committee will meet on June
   13, 2001, 10:30 a.m., Herbert C. Hoover Building, Room 3884, 14th
   Street between Constitution & Pennsylvania Avenues, N.W., Washington,
   D.C. The Committee advises the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
   Export Administration with respect to technical questions that affect
   the level of export controls applicable to materials and related
   technology. AGENDA: PUBLIC SESSION 1. Opening remarks and
   introductions. 2. Presentation of papers and comments by the public. 3.
   Status report on proposed revision to missile technology controls for
   composites and composite production equipment: relationship of cure
   temperature and glass transition temperature after curing. CLOSED
   SESSION 4. Discussion of matters properly classified under Executive
   Order 12958, dealing with U.S. export control programs and strategic
   criteria related thereto. A limited number of seats will be available
   during the public session of the meeting. Reservations are not
   accepted. To the extent time permits, members of the public may present
   oral statements to the Committee. Written statements may be submitted
   at any time before or after the meeting. However, to facilitate
   distribution of public presentation materials to Committee members, the
   materials should be forwarded prior to the meeting to the address
   below: Ms. Lee Ann Carpenter OSIES/EA/BXA MS: 3876 U.S. Department of
   Commerce 14 St. & Constitution Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 The
   Assistant Secretary for Administration, with the concurrence of the
   delegate of the General Counsel, formally determined on March 7, 2000,
   pursuant to section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as
   amended, that the series of meetings or portions of meetings of the
   Committee and of any Subcommittee thereof dealing with the classified
   materials listed in 5 U.S.C. 552(c)(1) shall be exempt from the
   provisions relating to public meetings found in section 10(a)(1) and
   (a)(3) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. The remaining series of
   meetings or portions thereof will be open to the public. A copy of the
   Notice of Determination to close meetings or portions of meetings of
   the Committee is available for public inspection and copying in the
   Central Reference and Records Inspection Facility, Room 6020, U.S.
   Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. For more information or copies
   of the minutes call Ms. Lee Ann Carpenter at (202) 482-2583.
