http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERH/NH508412.HTML

   COMMERCE IMAGE            UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

                                                           August 10, 1984
                                       W/OTS14

   TO:                 All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:     Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   84-12

   1. Material Transmitted:

   WSOM Chapter H-50, "Equipment Maintenance Program.

   2. Summary:

   Entire chapter has minor revisions throughout. The new chapter
   incorporates instructions on Logistics, Non-Government Equipment, and
   Non-Government Maintenance.

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   Cancels WSOM Chapter H-50, transmittal issuance 78-21, dated November
   2, 1978.

   The following OML's remain in effect:

   OML 6-80, dated May 22, 1980, (filed with H-50).

   OML 21-80, dated December 12, 1980, (filed with H-50).


   Richard E. Hallgren
   Assistant Administrator
     for Weather Services
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date     Org. Code        NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE        Part
     Chap.
   8-10-84        W/OTS1                Operations Manual
                   H             50

                          EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE PROGRAM

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Introduction

   2. Maintenance Program Objective

   3. Definitions

           3.1    Electronic System
           3.2    Electromechanical Equipment
           3.3   Preventive Maintenance
           3.4    Corrective Maintenance
           3.5    Emergency Maintenance

   4.    Equipment Maintenance Organization
           4.1    National Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)
                   4.1.1     Engineering Division
           4.2    Regional Headquarters
                   4.2.1    Engineering Division/Electronics Branch
           4.3    Weather Service Forecast Office
                   4.3.1     Area Manager (AM)
                   4.3.2     Area Electronics Supervisor (AES)
               * 4.3.3     Senior Electronics Technician (SET)
               * 4.3.4     Electronics Technician in Charge (ETIC)
                   4.3.5     Electronics Technician (ET)
           4.4    Other Field Offices
                   4.4.1     Station Manager

   5.    Relationships within the Maintenance Program

   6.    Electronic Maintenance Policy

   6.1    Work Assignment Plans

   6.2    Priorities of Maintenance

   6.3    Call-Back Procedure

   6.4    Remote Assistance

   6.5    Preventive Maintenance

   * 6.6    Logistics

   6.7    Hydrologic Equipment

   6.8    Split Responsibility

   6.9    Unauthorized Maintenance and Modification

   * 6.10    Non-Government Equipment

   * 6.11    Non-Government Maintenance
     __________________________________________________________________

   1. Introduction. This chapter outlines operating procedures to be
   followed within the maintenance program to achieve maximum
   responsiveness to the missions of the National Weather Service (NWS).
   Field maintenance organizational boundaries will generally coincide
   with the boundaries of the Weather Service Forecast Offices (WSFO). For
   program effectiveness, deviations may be required, especially in the
   Alaska and Pacific Regions, due to variation in workloads, equipment
   distribution, and/or geographic constraints. The Regional Director will
   make this determination on a case-by-case basis.

   2. Maintenance Program Objective. The objective of the equipment
   maintenance program is to assure that all authorized electronic and
   electromechanical equipment is maintained and operating in a manner
   that meets operational requirements and is the most cost effective.

   3. Definitions. To avoid ambiguity regarding terms used in the
   equipment maintenance program, the following are defined.

   3.1 Electronic System. Any instrumental system or device using the
   principle of electron flow through a vacuum, gas, or semiconductor.

   3.2 Electromechanical Equipment. Any device using electrical energy to
   produce mechanical movement, including all non-electronic
   instrumentation and instrumental recorders, and facilities partially or
   completely actuated or controlled electrically, as well as certain
   landline communication devices as indicated by specific directives.

   3.3 Preventive Maintenance. Performance checks and maintenance
   operations accomplished on equipment to ensure continued operation
   within prescribed design capabilities or to avoid imminent failure. It
   consists of two types; (a) scheduled and (b) non-scheduled, defined as
   follows:

       a. Scheduled maintenance is any scheduled or periodic maintenance
   procedure. Examples include inspection of equipment, lubrication,
   interchanging spare subassemblies, performing calibrations, and tests
   to assure specific performance.

       b. Non-scheduled maintenance is any unscheduled or a periodic
   maintenance procedure performed as a result of indications that
   malfunction of equipment is imminent. Examples include replacement of a
   component that shows visual signs of overheating, overhaul of a
   mechanical gearing unit that produces abnormal noise, or locating and
   replacing a component or circuit board which is marginal and causes
   equipment degradation.

   3.4 Corrective Maintenance. Remedial action required to correct failure
   and restore equipment operation to prescribed capabilities and
   tolerances.

   3.5 Emergency Maintenance. Corrective maintenance performed under
   emergency conditions where failure to do so may result in loss of
   property or life.

   4. Equipment Maintenance Organization. National and regional
   headquarters offices manage the maintenance program; however, the Area
   Electronics Supervisor (AES) is responsible for ensuring that programs
   are implemented and that maintenance activities are accomplished within
   the assigned area of responsibility. Regional coordination, guidance,
   and uniformity are important to assure compatibility of data in
   observational networks, reduce costs, minimize equipment downtime, and
   provide for orderly and efficient growth.

   4.1 National Weather Service Headquarters (WSH).

   4.1.1 Engineering Division.

       a. Determines engineering policies, standards, staffing plans and
   budgets, provides life cycle planning, systems analysis, and prepares
   recommendations for replacements for all equipment programs.

       b. Prepares specifications, evaluates- technical proposals,
   prepares procurement documentation, and monitors contracts for new
   equipment, systems, and supporting services.

       c. Establishes standards and procedures for the installation,
   maintenance, calibration, quality control, modification, and repair of
   equipment and systems.

       d. Responsible for providing resources to maintain systems
   including documentation, manuals, spare parts, test equipment,
   training, and logistics.

       e. Develops engineering modifications to improve system operations
   or to satisfy new requirements.

       f. Establishes training objectives and requirements. Assures that
   sufficient training resources are available to meet program
   requirements.

       g. Provides central repair, equipment reconditioning, and quality
   control services to support field activities.

       h. Provides remote assistance for complex technical problems which
   cannot be solved locally.

   4.2 Regional Headquarters.

   4.2.1 Engineering Division/Electronics Branch.

       a. Manages regional programs for the installation and maintenance
   of electronic, electromechanical, and other technical equipment.
   Allocates resources and implements plans and procedures for maintaining
   electronic systems on a routine and emergency basis.

       b. Ensures adherence to national maintenance policies and
   directives.

       c. Implements WSH and regional engineering plans, policies,
   programs, and procedures.

       d. Activates equipment and systems in accordance with prevailing
   directives. Oversees maintenance, modification, calibration, and
   quality control of electronic systems in the region.

       e. Determines regional training needs and schedules personnel for
   training. Ensures that regional personnel are sufficiently trained to
   meet program requirements.

       f. Provides technical and functional direction and support to
   regional electronics personnel.

       g. Provides technical consultation, guidance, and leadership to
   AES's, station managers, and regional officials with regard to
   installation, activation, and maintenance programs.

       h. Provides electronic expertise in regional headquarters; performs
   liaison; and coordinates programs, plans, policies, etc., with WSH,
   other Federal agencies, state and local officials, contractors, and
   suppliers.

       i. Authorizes temporary modifications or deviations from
   established procedures during emergencies. Recommends to WSH
   modifications to equipment or procedures to provide more efficient use
   of personnel, increased reliability, or improved systems performance.

       j. Acts as Contracting Officer's Technical representative for
   regional maintenance contracts.

   4.3 Weather Service Forecast Office.

   4.3.1 Area Manager (AM).

       a. Is the line supervisor of the AES. Evaluates performance of the
   AES after consultation with the Chief, Electronics Branch (CEB).

       b. Through the AES is responsible for an effective and efficient
   electronic maintenance program.

       c. Sets priorities of station corrective and emergency maintenance
   to meet operational requirements. Makes the determination for call-back
   of senior electronics technician/electronics technician (SET/ET) in
   emergencies at the WSFO.

       d. Ensures that all system malfunctions are properly documented on
   the Equipment Maintenance Document, WS Form H-30.

       e. Provides administrative support to assigned engineering
   personnel.

   4.3.2 Area Electronics Supervisor (AES).

       a. Is the line supervisor of all SET's and ET's within the assigned
   area. Evaluates performance of all electronics personnel and includes
   recommendations made by the respective station managers.

       b. Carries out the area electronic maintenance responsibilities
   within existing constraints.

       c. Verifies that electronic systems are regularly calibrated and
   are operating in conformance with established standards. Conducts
   quality control inspections and reviews of technician effectiveness and
   system performance.

       d. Provides liaison between regional Engineering Division and
   station managers, SET/ET's, and other governmental agencies within
   assigned area of responsibility.

       e. Ensures that regional and WSH policies, procedures, and programs
   pertaining to the electronic maintenance program are carefully
   followed.

       f. Evaluates and analyzes failure and routine maintenance reports
   required for the Engineering Management Reporting System. Provides
   reports to the CEB on deficiencies in the area

       g. Prepares and updates work assignment plans for each SET and/or
   ET within assigned area if not already covered by existing directives
   or position descriptions.

   * 4.3.3 Senior Electronics Technician (SET). The SET is located at
   multistaffed electronics technician stations and is under the direct
   supervision of the AES. The SET is the focal point for the station's
   electronic maintenance program, and exercises full technical
   responsibility for all system maintenance. The SET is responsible for
   programming and scheduling work, including daily travel. of all ET's
   assigned to the station.

   * 4.3.4 Electronics Technician in Charge (ETIC). At a few WSFO's, where
   reduced requirements, workloads, and supervisory needs do not require
   both an AES and an SET, these functions will be combined. The title
   Electronics Technician in Charge may be used to designate this type
   position. All duties and responsibilities described above under 4.3.2
   and 4.3.3 will be assigned to the ETIC.

   4.3.5  Electronics Technician (ET). The ET is under the direct
   supervision of the AES. He/she is responsible for the performance of
   assigned preventive, corrective, and emergency maintenance on equipment
   at his/her headquarters station and other specified locations. At
   multistaffed stations, the ET is under the leadership and guidance of
   the SET.

   4.4 Other Field Offices.

   4. 4. 1 Station Manager.

       a. Sets priorities of station corrective and emergency maintenance
   to meet operational requirements. Makes the determination for call-back
   of SET/ET's in emergencies. If no ET is available, the AES is called,
   and if unavailable the AM shall be notified.

       b. Ensures that all system malfunctions are properly documented on
   the Equipment Maintenance Document, WS Form H-30.

       c. Provides administrative support to assigned engineering
   personnel.

       d. Provides the AES input on station equipment operations and
   performance of the assigned SET/ET(s) for the rating period just prior
   to AES's annual (or as appropriate) evaluation of the station
   SET/ET(s).

   5. Relationships within the Maintenance Program. The WSH Engineering
   Division performs a staff function within WSH, acting with authority
   delegated from the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services, and
   provides direction, assistance, resources, and other support to the
   regions. The regional Engineering Divisions perform a similar staff
   function, acting with authority delegated from the Regional Directors,
   and provide support to the field stations. The AES or ETIC is a staff
   member of the WSFO (whether headquartered there or not) and acts with
   authority delegated from the AM. The AES/ETIC is line supervisor of
   assigned SET/ET's, who are typically dispersed throughout the area. The
   SET/ET's carry out the maintenance program assigned, responding to the
   maintenance needs of the operations they support.

   In this decentralized environment it is important to program
   effectiveness that responsibility, authority, and relationships be
   clear. Regional Directors should document any further definitions of
   working relationships deemed necessary in Regional Operations Manual
   Letters.

   6. Electronic Maintenance Policy. The wide dispersion of NWS operations
   and field maintenance activities requires that uniform policies and
   procedures be followed except when an emergency exists, then it may be
   necessary for the ET to initiate temporary actions which deviate from
   normal operating procedures.

   Listed below are general policy guidelines. These are supplemented with
   other written policies and procedures in the Engineering Handbooks as
   determined by individual system requirements and other program plans.

   6.1 Work Assignment Plans. Plans covering maintenance responsibility
   will be prepared by each AES for each SET and ET supervised. Work
   assignment plans are required when not covered in existing directives
   or position descriptions. All plans prepared will be reviewed by the
   regional Electronics Branch to ensure that best use of personnel is
   achieved. The AES shall review the plans at least annually, or as
   program or personnel changes are made, and make recommendations to the
   regional headquarters on workload distribution in the interest of
   efficiency and economy.

   A copy of the current work assignment plan will be provided the station
   manager of each NWS office where the SET/ET is given maintenance
   responsibility. Each plan should indicate the maintenance to be
   performed by the SET/ET's at each location.

   6.2 Priorities of Maintenance.

       a. The station manager or a designee will assign priorities to
   corrective and emergency maintenance required at that office. If the
   SET/ET is in travel or leave status or if the emergency is beyond the
   capacity of the SET or ET to meet within a reasonable period,
   assistance will be requested from the AES, and if the AES is
   unavailable, the station manager will contact the AM.

       b. If a SET/ET is notified of inoperative equipment at a remote
   station which he/she maintains when conditions will prevent timely
   repair, the SET/ET will notify the AES. If the SET/ET is unavailable,
   the station manager requiring assistance will report the outage to the
   AES. The AES, in consultation with the AM, will determine what action
   should be taken, referring the problem to the regional headquarters if
   intra-area resources cannot respond within a reasonable period.

       c. If equipment vital to a station's program becomes inoperative or
   partially inoperative, and some delay will be incurred prior to
   initiating remedial action, a report of the outage and its magnitude
   should be made by the AES to the CEB through the AM at the earliest
   opportunity. This is of added importance where extended outage time
   will result from a lack of spare parts or other extenuating
   circumstances.

   6.3 Call-Back Procedure. When critical operational equipment becomes
   inoperative as determined by the station manager. he/she may authorize
   emergency repairs and overtime pay as necessary to restore the
   equipment to service. If the SET or ET is unavailable, the station
   manager will notify the AES or AM, who in turn will notify the regional
   headquarters.

   6.4 Remote Assistance. Certain problems, due to their nature, cannot
   always be solved at the local level. In such instances, the local ET
   staff should request assistance through the SET, AES, and regional
   headquarters. For AFOS, the Engineering Support Center is also
   available to provide assistance, either remotely or on site.

   6.5 Preventive Maintenance. The frequency of preventive maintenance
   should not be less than that specified in published maintenance
   schedules or other policy issuances. Equipment malfunctions that
   persist or equipment that requires excessive maintenance should be
   brought to the attention of the regional headquarters through the AES.

   * 6.6 Logistics. To support the wide array of equipment and systems in
   the NWS inventory, a multilevel logistics system exists. The NOAA
   Logistics Supply Center (NLSC) is the core of this system, maintaining
   supplies of technical items, forms, and publications. Subdepots at
   several locations augment the NLSC. Items not unique to NOAA are
   obtained from the General Services Administration Supply Service. Other
   stocks of certain items are maintained at WSF0's or other field
   offices. Those items stocked at NLSC for NWS are cataloged in
   Engineering Handbook No. 1. The majority of stock items are maintained
   in the stores stock system, but certain types of items are in the
   Logistical Support System (LSS). Certain stores stock items and all LSS
   items are designated as repairable. Timely return of defective
   repairable items to the National Reconditioning Center is essential to
   continued availability of these items, and is a requirement of LSS.
   Detailed instructions on use of the logistics system are contained in
   separate directives and may be supplemented by regional instructions.

   The following principles should be observed:

     * Government supply sources should be used in preference to
       commercial sources.
     * Priorities of orders should be set realistically. Unwarranted
       setting of high priorities will ultimately degrade the response of
       the system to all users.
     * There should be sufficient controls on the placing of orders to
       assure compliance with agency instructions. Supply organizations
       cannot exercise this control; the responsible NWS organization
       must.
     * In emergencies, when restoration of equipment is paramount,
       responsible individuals are authorized to obtain essential supplies
       through the most expeditious means available.
     * AES's exercise control over the supply functions of SET/ET's,
       including review of on-station spares, return of repairable items,
       and compliance with prescribed ordering procedures.

   6.7 Hydrologic Equipment. Maintenance of hydrologic equipment presents
   unusual problems due to remote or relatively inaccessible
   installations, split maintenance responsibility with other Government
   agencies, and contractual maintenance agreements. As a specific policy,
   the responsibility for activating and maintaining all authorized
   electronic and electromechanical equipment having telemetry adjuncts
   associated with the hydrologic program is assigned to the ET's. The
   Fischer and Porter precipitation recorder without telemetry adjuncts is
   assigned to the Cooperative Program Managers. (See EHB-10, Section 2.1,
   Maintenance Note 58.)

   Where maintenance is provided by other Government agencies or by local
   contractors, a quality control inspection of the system will be
   performed by the AES at least annually.

   6.8 Split Responsibility. Where split maintenance with other agencies
   is encountered, all NWS-owned equipment or adjuncts remains the
   assigned SET/ET's responsibility. The point of demarcation regarding
   interface activities will be defined in maintenance notes in
   appropriate Engineering Handbooks.

   6 9 Unauthorized Maintenance and Modification. Each SET and E; must be
   fully qualified, through training or other qualification procedures
   approved by WSH, before being assigned full equipment responsibilities.
   Repairs or adjustments will not be attempted by unauthorized station
   personnel unless they have been previously instructed by an ET.
   Equipment or systems not officially assigned as part of the station
   program shall not be maintained by NWS ET's unless prior arrangements
   have been made by the regional headquarters and WSH Engineering
   Division. This includes equipment provided by other agencies for
   special purposes and equipment obtained from government surplus or
   other sources.

   No unauthorized modifications (electronic or structural), or "field
   engineering" will be attempted on WSH-supplied equipment. This does not
   negate the AES's and regional headquarters' authority to authorize
   temporary modifications to restore vital equipment operation during
   periods of emergency. After the emergency the equipment will be
   restored to its original configuration. Each AES shall ensure that all
   systems remain standardized and in accordance with WSH policy and
   prescribed configuration. Equipment procured by the regions (with the
   approval of WSH) for special programs is regional responsibility, and
   should be covered by specific regional directives. Equipment approved
   for maintenance shall be added to the station's equipment inventory
   listing.

   * 6.10 Non-Government Equipment. Electronic maintenance of instrumental
   equipment leased for use in field programs will not be assumed by NWS
   employees until it has first been approved by the regional and WSH
   Engineering Divisions. Where such maintenance is authorized, it will be
   performed only to the extent covered under the equipment lease. If
   there are components or assemblies in leased systems which are
   identical to those owned by NWS, the NWS-owned components will not be
   used in leased equipment except upon authorization of the AES.

   Non-Government instrumental equipment may be installed in NWS premises
   and/or connected to NWS equipment only under the following conditions:

       a. An approved written agreement between the non-Government entity
   and the cognizant regional headquarters, including detailed
   installation plans, has been provided to the affected station.

       b. Installation/connection of such equipment is made by the
   non-Government entity under the oversight of the responsible NWS SET/ET
   on a non-interference basis.

       c. No maintenance or adjustment of such equipment is to be done by
   NWS ET's, except upon written authorization of the WSH Engineering
   Division.

   * 6.11 Non-Government Maintenance. NWS equipment maintained by
   contractor(s) shall be entered in the station's equipment inventory
   listing. Weather Service Form H-30 will be used to resort outages and
   corrective maintenance actions.

   WSOM Issuance
   84-12 8-10-84
