http://dli2.nsf.gov/internationalprojects/nsfjiscpreannouncement.html

   dli2 home international projects
   dli2 funded projects international projects special projects ITR
   special projects program
   funded workshops news and events [menuoffmews.gif] mailing lists
   contacts glossary photo gallery search
   site map DLI Phase One (1994-1998)

        National Science Foundation and Joint Information Systems Committee

   Call for Proposals Pre-announcement; expected call for proposals December '01

                 DIGITAL LIBRARIES AND THE CLASSROOM: TESTBEDS FOR
                        TRANSFORMING TEACHING AND LEARNING

                   A new $8,500,000 / £ 6,000,000 joint program

   The United States National Science Foundation (NSF) and the United
   Kingdom Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) wish to establish a
   joint program of activities in US and UK universities. Four exemplar
   projects of up to US$ 2.1million/ £1.5 million each over three years
   will be funded to demonstrate how the education process for
   undergraduate students can be transformed using innovative applications
   of emerging information technologies and Internet resources.

   The objective of this joint NSF/JISC programme is to bring about a
   significant improvement in the learning and teaching process by fusing
   state of the art digital and internet-based services, rapidly expanding
   global digital content of all forms and emerging applications in
   undergraduate education. We particularly wish to examine how
   integrating recent technical developments with digital content will
   improve the learning experience of students and provide new models for
   the classroom across a number of disciplines.

   In creating the new courses, projects will be expected to examine many
   aspects of the whole learning process including:

    * The innovative use of distributed, multi-media, multi-source
   electronic content and advanced network technologies and capabilities
   in education

   * How the student experience can be enriched through the use of
   appropriate applications and access to electronic resources

   * A better understanding of students' requirements for effective use of
   Information and Communications Technology(ICT), Virtual Learning
   Environments (VLE) and electronic information resources

   * How teachers can be assisted in incorporating ICT, VLE and electronic
   information resources in their courses in appropriate ways, to provide
   balanced courses for students

   * The institutional information infrastructure required to deliver the
   new courses, including the provision of suitable networks, resources,
   applications, and the development of strategies to manage all of these
   effectively

   * The organisational changes that will be required to deliver the
   courses and support the staff and students involved, and how these can
   best be managed by the institutions

   * The staff development needs of the teaching staff, the information
   service support teams and administrators and consideration of the
   reward mechanisms for staff engaged in innovative activities.

   * Economic models for the development, delivery and long term support
   and development of ICT-based learning.

   The NSF and the JISC successfully collaborated in funding digital
   library projects in 1999 - 2001. We now wish to build on this work by
   funding four exemplar projects, where each project is a collaboration
   of at least one institution of higher education in the USA and one in
   the UK. Projects will be expected to provide a five-year plan of
   activities, although funding will only be provided for the first three.
   This will ensure that the projects are embedded into the institutions
   and demonstrate that the innovations are sustainable. Significant
   financial and intellectual 'buy-in' by the institutions and faculties
   chosen will therefore be vital to achieving success; the objectives
   cannot be met without considerable change and investment in new
   learning and teaching processes, support services and physical
   infrastructure.

    Institutions should consider opportunities to build on existing or
   planned strategic developments in heir own organisations that would
   benefit from a broader, international approach. The benefits will
   include access to a wider base of technical expertise, or different
   organisational structures, management approaches and teaching
   methodologies. Creation of a larger, shared corpus of electronic
   content for student use from existing, dispersed digital resources is
   particularly welcome.

   A call for proposals is expected to be published in early December,
   with a closing date in February 2002. Projects will be expected to
   start in summer 2002. This pre-announcement alerts the community to the
   imminent call and provides an early opportunity to explore possible
   partnerships with suitable organisations in the USand UK, in advance of
   the call being issued.

   Steve Griffin, NSF
   Norman Wiseman, JISC

   Home | DLI2 Funded Projects | International Projects| Special Projects
     ITR | Special Projects Program | Funded Worskhops | News & Events |
    Newsletters & Magazines | Mailing Lists | Contacts | Glossary | Photo
            Gallery | Search | Site Map | DLI Phase 1 (1998-1998)

                        comments to dli2 coordinators
                                 12.13.2001
