http://geochange.er.usgs.gov/sw/changes/natural/floods/

   Impacts of Climate Change and Land Use on the Southwestern United
   States

   Climatic variability

      Some Perspectives on Climate and Floods in the Southwestern U.S.

                           U.S. Geological Survey
     __________________________________________________________________

   Abstracted primarily from:

   Hirschboeck, K.K., 1991, Climate and floods, in Paulson, R.W., Chase,
   E.B., Roberts, R.S., and Moody, D.W., Compilers, National Water Summary
   1988-89--Hydrologic Events and Floods and Droughts: U.S. Geological
   Survey Water-Supply Paper 2375, p. 99-104.

   With additional information from:

   House, P.K., and Hirschboeck, K.K., (in press), Hydroclimatological and
   paleohydrological context of extreme winter flooding in Arizona, 1993:
   Geological Society of America Special Paper.

   Ely, L.L., Enzel, Y., Baker, V.R., and Cayan, D.R., 1993, A 5000-year
   record of extreme floods and climate change in the southwestern United
   States: Science, v. 62, p. 410-412.

   Trenberth, K.E., and Hoar, T.J., 1996, The 1990-1995 El Niño-Southern
   Oscillation event longest on record: Geophysical Research Letters, v.
   23, No. 1, p. 57-60.
     __________________________________________________________________

  INTRODUCTION

   The climate of the United States is characterized by a diversity of
   climatic regimes--humid coastal plains and arid desert basins,
   temperate woodlands and semiarid grasslands, tropical islands and
   subarctic interiors, and the complex microenvironments present
   throughout the major mountain ranges of the Nation. Yet within these
   diverse climatic regimes, each of the 50 States is subject to flooding
   on a periodic basis. This article summarizes the role of climate in the
   occurrence of floods throughout the United States, with additional
   information specific to the southwestern United States.

   Floods are caused by weather phenomena and events that deliver more
   precipitation to a drainage basin than can be readily absorbed or
   stored within the basin. The kinds of weather phenomena and events that
   cause floods include intense convective thunderstorms, tropical storms
   and hurricanes, cyclones and frontal passages, and rapid snowmelt.
   These individual meteorological processes are part of a larger climatic
   framework that determines (1) the seasonal availability and large-scale
   delivery pathways of atmospheric moisture, (2) the seasonal frequency,
   typical locations, and degree of persistence of the weather phenomena
   that release the delivered moisture, and (3) the seasonal variation of
   climate-related, land-surface conditions that affect flood runoff, such
   as antecedent soil moisture or snow cover.

   Although the southwestern U.S. is noted for its general dryness, floods
   are not uncommon. Summer thunderstorms, producing flash floods that
   suddenly fill dry washes and overwhelm whatever is in their way are
   famous.

  MOISTURE IN THE ATMOSPHERE

   The oceans are the primary source for the atmospheric moisture that
   eventually falls as precipitation to cause a flood. The atmosphere, a
   temporary reservoir and delivery system for this moisture, evaporates
   the moisture from the ocean surface and transports it to the continents
   in the form of precipitable water vapor through the large-scale motions
   of the general circulation of the atmosphere. Warm air has a greater
   capacity for retaining water vapor than does cold air; hence, air
   masses that originate over the warm, tropical parts of oceans evaporate
   and transport more precipitable water vapor than do air masses that
   originate over the cold, polar parts of oceans. The average annual
   precipitable water vapor of the lower atmosphere over the conterminous
   United States, measured from the land surface to 6 miles above sea
   level, is shown in figure 1A. Also shown in figure 1A is the water
   content at middle altitudes only, between 2 and 6 miles above sea
   level. Most precipitable water vapor is contained in the lower, warmer
   parts of the atmosphere. The maximum values of precipitable water vapor
   are measured near warm oceanic moisture sources, and the minimum values
   are measured in the mountainous regions of the western conterminous
   United States.

    figure 1

    Figure 1. Precipitable water vapor in the atmosphere over the
    conterminous United States. Upper maps, 2-6 miles above sea level;
    lower maps, surface to 6 miles above sea level. A, average annual, B,
    average July. (Data from Reitan, 1960)

   The greatest influx of precipitable water vapor across the entire
   conterminous United States occurs in July (fig. 1B). During July, the
   maximum available precipitable water vapor is present in the atmosphere
   over the southeastern United States, especially over the Gulf Coast
   States. Even at altitudes higher than 2 miles, the precipitable water
   vapor in the atmosphere is greatest in July, and at these altitudes, a
   northward influx of moisture into the western United States is evident.
   Only at altitudes between 2 and 6 miles above sea level over the Far
   Northern and Western States does the atmosphere contain less than 0.4
   inch of precipitable water vapor during July.

   LARGE-SCALE, MOISTURE-DELIVERY PATHWAYS

   The primary large-scale, moisture-delivery pathways along which
   low-level precipitable water vapor enters the conterminous United
   States are determined by the direction of average surface winds at
   different times during the year. These pathways can be depicted for
   each season by using simplified streamlines of the average surface
   winds over North America (fig. 2). In figure 2, generalized pathways
   are shaded to reflect the average precipitable water vapor in the lower
   atmosphere over different areas of the continent during each season. At
   any given time, the dominant pathways over the conterminous United
   States originate from three distinct air-mass source regions--the
   Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico, and the Arctic
   region (Bryson and Hare, 1974; Wendland and Bryson, 1981). In addition,
   in fall and winter, some pathways originate from air masses located
   over the north-central and eastern United States (Bryson and Hare,
   1974; Wendland and Bryson, 1981).

   figure 2

   Figure 2. Large-scale moisture delivery pathways over North America in
   4 midesason months. A, January, B, April, C, July, D, October.
   (Pathways data from Bryson and Hare, 1974; precipitable water vapor
   data from Reitan, 1960)

   Regionally, the dominant air masses and moisture-delivery pathways
   shift as the seasons progress. These shifts are important controls of
   the seasonality of average monthly precipitation and streamflow in the
   conterminous United States. These shifts also determine the regional
   flooding regimes of rivers by affecting the timing and magnitude of
   large influxes of precipitable water vapor that are necessary for
   intense or prolonged storms.

   Moisture Delivery from the Pacific Ocean

   A belt of strong westerly winds delivers moisture-laden air from the
   Pacific Ocean into North America along several pathways that shift with
   the seasons-as far north as about 60° N. latitude in summer and as far
   south as about 35° N. latitude in winter (fig. 2). Penetration of this
   Pacific air into the interior of the continent by the westerly winds is
   impeded at lower atmospheric levels by the mountain ranges along the
   west coast of the continent. Entry into the interior is possible where
   the westerly winds are strongest, between about 45° and 50° N.
   latitude, and where elevations of the mountain ranges are low (Bryson
   and Hare, 1974). Although air from the Pacific Ocean generally contains
   substantial precipitable water vapor before the air penetrates deep
   into the interior, the moisture in the air in the southern pathways,
   which affects much of the west coast of the United States, is not
   released abundantly as precipitation due to the proximity of the North
   Pacific subtropical anticyclone and the stabilizing effect of the cold
   California Current. These conditions are especially true in summer,
   which tends to be a dry season along the far West Coast. In the
   interior southwestern part of the continent, however, localized intense
   precipitation and flooding can occur during the summer when moisture
   from the warm, tropical parts of the Pacific Ocean is conveyed
   northward along the west coast of Mexico into parts of southern
   California and Arizona. In the middle latitudes of the Far West, major
   occurrences of intense precipitation and flooding take place in winter,
   when well-developed, extratropical, cyclonic storms and fronts are
   conveyed into the region by strong westerly winds that have shifted to
   more southerly pathways. In the northern latitudes of the West Coast
   and in Alaska, moisture delivery by pathways from the Pacific Ocean is
   most effective in late summer and fall.

   Air from the Pacific Ocean that crosses the western mountain ranges and
   enters the north-central and eastern parts of the continent loses much
   of its precipitable water vapor and has a modified character that
   contrasts with the cold, dry air from the Arctic and the warm, moist
   subtropical air from the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico. This
   modified air from the Pacific Ocean has a drying effect when it
   dominates during the fall, thereby decreasing the likelihood of
   flooding. During the winter, however, modified air from the Pacific
   Ocean occasionally can be the source of unseasonably warm temperatures
   and dry air, which result in a temporary thaw that produces significant
   snowmelt flooding in the Northern States.

   Air that is conveyed across the tropical part of the Pacific Ocean by
   the northeasterly trade winds has a continuous effect on Hawaii. This
   State receives abundant precipitable water vapor in all months of the
   year, but most of it is concentrated at low levels in the atmosphere,
   below 5,000 to 8,000 feet above sea level. Above this altitude, the
   upper trade winds and high pressure from the North Pacific subtropical
   anticyclone typically produce an inversion that has a stable layer of
   dry air above. Light to moderate rain showers are common under these
   conditions, but occasionally extreme rainfall intensities and
   subsequent flooding can occur, especially during periods of frontal
   passage and storm activity in the winter and tropical cyclone activity
   in the summer and fall.

  ATMOSPHERIC PROCESSES THAT RELEASE MOISTURE

   Once large volumes of precipitable water vapor are delivered into a
   region, the release of this moisture from the atmosphere is dependent
   on the existence of an uplift mechanism that will cool and condense
   layers of moist air so that cloud development, precipitation, and
   eventual flooding might result. This uplift can occur through any
   combination of (l) thermal convection in moist, unstable air, (2)
   large-scale frontal convergence of contrasting air masses such that a
   warmer, moister air mass will be forced to rise over a cooler, drier
   air mass, (3) forced vertical motion in response to perturbations in
   the upper atmosphere, and (4) orographic lifting, that is, the forced
   rising of moist air up the slopes of hills and mountains.

   Convectional processes tend to have limited areal extent but cause
   intense precipitation that results in flash floods in small drainage
   basins. Frontal-convergence processes affect extensive areas, and the
   resulting precipitation is the predominant cause of floods in large
   drainage basins. Upper atmosphere perturbations can have a local or
   widespread effect on precipitation and flooding, depending on the
   small-scale or large-scale nature of the perturbation. Orographic
   uplifting also can have a local or widespread effect on precipitation
   and flooding, depending on the extent and orientation of the topography
   with respect to prevailing wind directions and the type of
   precipitation associated with the orographic uplift.

   CONVECTIONAL PROCESSES

   Convectional processes that are capable of releasing enough
   precipitation to cause floods include thermally induced thunderstorms,
   mesoscale convective systems, and tropical cyclones. In addition,
   convectional processes also can occur in conjunction with frontal
   convergence and orographic lifting. The characteristic feature of a
   strong convectional process is the towering thunderstorm cloud from
   which exceedingly intense precipitation of short duration can fall.

   Extreme precipitation intensities of as much as 1.26 inches in 1 minute
   (Maryland), 3.9 inches in 14 minutes (Texas), 7 inches in 30 minutes
   (Ohio), and 12 inches in 42 minutes (Missouri) have been recorded in
   the United States in association with summer convectional processes
   (Costa, 1987). Precipitation of such great intensity is delivered at a
   rate faster than the rate at which it infiltrates the soil; hence, it
   contributes to surface runoff almost immediately, and commonly results
   in urban street flooding and flash flooding within small drainage
   basins. Most thunderstorm cells are of limited areal extent [4 to 40
   mi^2], whereas large, convectively induced and maintained thunderstorm
   clusters, called mesoscale convective complexes, can have areas of
   30,000 to 80,000 mi^2. The convectional processes associated with
   tropical storms and hurricanes can affect areas as large as 400,000
   mi^2. The seasonality and geographic distribution of each of these
   types of convectional processes are discussed in more detail in the
   following sections.

   Thunderstorm Activity

   Intense precipitation from thunderstorms is the major cause of flash
   floods in small drainage basins and is an important component of many
   instances of widespread, severe flooding. Thunderstorms occur in all 50
   States, but their frequency and spatial distribution vary from season
   to season. The major requirements for severe-thunderstorm development
   are warm, moist, unstable air and an atmospheric environment that
   supports low-elevation cloud bases and instability aloft so that clouds
   can form to great heights. Thunderstorms can develop in homogeneous
   warm, moist air masses or along fronts. In the former, instability is
   initiated by local heating, topographic effects, or upper atmosphere
   perturbations, whereas in the latter, instability is initiated by
   marked density contrasts between warm and cold air masses.

   The average number of days during which thunderstorms develop in the
   United States varies from season to season (fig. 3), and there is a
   general relation between the number and geographic distribution of
   these days and the volume of precipitable water vapor in the lower
   atmosphere (figs. 1 and 2). Areas where there is an exception to this
   relation are along the west coast of the conterminous United States and
   Hawaii, where thunderstorms are infrequent despite an abundance of
   moist air from the Pacific Ocean. Along the West Coast, the cold
   California Current and the North Pacific subtropical anticyclone have a
   stabilizing effect on the atmosphere, whereas in Hawaii, an inversion
   in the trade winds having a stable, dry layer aloft suppresses
   thunderstorm development. Nevertheless, when thunderstorms do develop
   in these areas, the intense precipitation from these storms can cause
   major flooding, especially when atmospheric uplift and instability are
   enhanced by orographic effects.

   figure 3

   Figure 3. Average number of days per season during which thunderstorms
   developed in the U.S., 1951-75.
   A, Winter, B, Spring, C, Summer, D, Fall. (Modified from Court and
   Griffiths, 1983)

   Elsewhere in the United States, the number and geographic distribution
   of days during which thunderstorms develop varies from a minimum number
   of days during the winter, when thunderstorm activity is limited to the
   Gulf Coast region, to a maximum number of days during the summer, when
   thunderstorm activity occurs throughout most of the country (fig. 3A,
   C). The regions most prone to thunderstorm development are the Gulf
   Coast (all seasons), the Great Plains and the eastern slopes of the
   mountains just to the west of the Great Plains (spring, fall, and
   especially summer), and the southwestern deserts and mountains
   (summer). The large number of days during which thunderstorms develop
   in the Great Plains region is related to a variety of mechanisms,
   including frontal convergence, upper atmosphere perturbations, and
   mesoscale convective systems (discussed in the next section). In the
   mountainous parts of the western and southwestern regions, the forced
   up-slope movement of moist air during the summer greatly enhances
   thunderstorm development.

   Despite their propensity for producing intense precipitation, most
   typical thunderstorms do not yield sufficient precipitation to cause
   major floods. A single storm usually is small, of short duration, and
   is characterized by several convective cells that develop and decay
   during an hour or so. Floods are most likely to be caused by
   precipitation from severe, long-duration thunderstorms that develop to
   great heights-- at times penetrating through an inversion layer to do
   so. These thunderstorms must have an internal structure that can
   withstand the dispersing effect of strong winds in the upper
   atmosphere. Development to the severe stage can be in the form of a
   single "super-cell" thunderstorm, a row of thunderstorms that forms a
   squall line, or a multicell cluster of developing and decaying
   thunderstorms (Eagleman, 1983). Due to the limited areal extent of
   precipitation from single, super-cell thunderstorms or small, multicell
   thunderstorms, flooding caused by the precipitation is localized, but
   it can be extreme. This condition is especially true when the
   thunderstorm remains quasi-stationary and is centered directly over a
   drainage basin or its headwaters or when a slow-moving thunderstorm
   moves along a path from the headwaters area to the discharge area of a
   linear drainage basin, thus allowing intense precipitation and
   resulting runoff to become superimposed on flood waters coming from
   upstream. On September 14, 1944, in a small drainage basin in Nevada
   (22.9 mi^2), the latter situation resulted in one of the largest known
   flash floods for a drainage basin of this size (Glancy and Harmsen,
   1975; Costa, 1987). In this instance, and in numerous other instances
   of major localized flooding in the United States that results from
   precipitation from thunderstorms, orographic lifting of warm, moist air
   has been an important component contributing to the severity of the
   thunderstorms.

   Tropical Cyclones

   Tropical cyclones are the largest atmospheric features that are induced
   and maintained primarily by convectional processes. Precipitation from
   these tropical low-pressure systems, which have diameters of 60 to 600
   miles when fully developed, can cause major floods. Easterly waves,
   tropical depressions, tropical storms, and hurricanes each represent
   different stages of disturbed tropical weather associated with tropical
   cyclones. Those tropical cyclones that affect the conterminous United
   States originate in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, the
   Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, and the eastern part of the North
   Pacific Ocean (fig. 4). The point of initial genesis of these cyclones
   and their season of occurrence are affected principally by the presence
   of sea-surface temperatures of about 79 degrees Fahrenheit or warmer
   (Gray, 1979). The official tropical-cyclone season extends from June
   through October, but the greatest frequency of these cyclones is in
   late summer and early fall, when sea-surface temperatures tend to be
   warmest.

   figure 4

   Figure 4. Tropical cyclones and their effect on flooding in the
   conterminous United States/
   A, Source regions of tropical cyclones, B, Tracks of selected tropical
   cyclones that producded flood-causing precipitation or storm surges and
   regions affected by precipitation from trpoical cyclones. (Modified
   from Gray, 1979, Cry and others, 1981, Smith, 1986, Cry, 1967, Court,
   1980)

   The effects of tropical cyclones on local and regional precipitation
   totals can be substantial. Along the coasts of the Atlantic Ocean and
   the Gulf of Mexico, precipitation from tropical cyclones contributed as
   much as 15 percent of the total precipitation from June through October
   during 1931-60 (Cry, 1967). Most of this precipitation occurred in the
   months of August and September, when 25 to 45 percent of the total
   monthly precipitation along the Gulf and Atlantic Coasts was
   contributed by tropical cyclones (Cry, 1967). In the southwestern
   United States, tropical cyclones originating in the eastern part of the
   North Pacific Ocean tend to have an even greater relative affect on
   precipitation totals during June through October because normal summer
   and fall precipitation totals are much less in this part of the
   country, which is more arid than the eastern United States. Several of
   the greatest precipitation totals ever recorded for individual storms
   in the southwestern United States have been associated with tropical
   cyclones, and these precipitation totals have helped to establish
   all-time records of total monthly precipitation at a number of stations
   scattered throughout the region (Smith, 1986).

   Although floods caused by precipitation from tropical cyclones are
   infrequent, these floods can represent the largest recorded peaks in a
   flood time series; hence, these floods are important contributors to
   estimates of the 100-year and probable-maximum floods. Tropical
   cyclones can have an effect on flooding in three different ways:

   1. As a cyclone approaches land, storm-surge waves and high water
   levels produced by strong onshore winds can cause severe coastal
   flooding and shoreline erosion. Extremely damaging coastal floods
   caused by such waves and water levels occurred during Hurricane Camille
   in August 1969, when storm surges of 15 to 22 feet above normal sea
   level were recorded at various locations along the Gulf Coast of
   Louisiana and Mississippi (Wilson and Hudson, 1969; U.S. Army Corps of
   Engineers, 1970).

   2. After a cyclone has reached land, individual thunderstorms embedded
   within spiraling cloud bands of the cyclone can produce intense,
   localized precipitation that causes flash flooding in urban areas and
   small drainage basins. At the same time, widespread, intense
   precipitation that is generated by atmospheric instability throughout
   the extent of the cyclone can cause major riverine flooding in large
   drainage basins that are located along the path of the
   cyclone--especially if the cyclone is slow moving, becomes stalled, or
   reverses direction. The devastating floods during Hurricane Agnes that
   affected drainage basins throughout the Mid-Atlantic States in late
   June and early July 1972 were of this type (Bailey and others, 1975).

   3. Regardless of whether or not a cyclone reaches land, residual
   moisture fluxes from any stage of a cyclone--including the dissipating
   stage--can introduce abnormally large volumes of precipitable water
   vapor into areas where substantial surface heating, orographic lifting,
   or upper atmospheric instability can produce intense precipitation
   sufficient to cause flooding. This is one of the most common ways in
   which a distant or dissipating tropical cyclone can be a major factor
   affecting flooding in the interior of the continent. The residual
   precipitable water vapor from a dissipating tropical cyclone is
   especially likely to cause flooding when this water vapor is
   incorporated with that in a preexisting atmospheric disturbance that
   moves into the area, such as a cutoff low, a front, or an extratropical
   cyclone. The record-breaking floods in southern Arizona in September
   1970 (Tropical Storm Norma) and in October 1983 (Tropical Storm Octave)
   were of this type, as were the floods in southwestern Texas in June
   1954 (Hurricane Alice) (fig. 4B).

   On the basis of the tracks of previous tropical cyclones, most of the
   southwestern, south-central, and eastern parts of the conterminous
   United States are susceptible to occasional extreme flooding from
   precipitation or storm surges produced by the direct or indirect
   effects of a tropical cyclone (fig. 4B). Hawaii also is vulnerable to
   severe coastal and riverine flooding by precipitation and storm surges
   from tropical cyclones originating in the Pacific Ocean; however,
   Hawaii is not located in a source region of tropical cyclones, and
   fully developed tropical cyclones are not common in this part of the
   Pacific Ocean.

   figure 5

   Figure 5. Regional paleoflood chronology showing floods on rivers in
   Arizona and southern Utah in 200-year increments (each bar represents
   the increment that ended on the indicated year). An asterisk indicates
   that one of the largest floods in the record occurred in the increment
   (multiple events indicated by the number in parentheses). The values
   for the last two increments are shown above the bars, as the bars
   exceeded the graph scale. (Modified from Ely and others 1993)

   Between June and October, hurricane-like tropical cyclones generated in
   the Pacific west of Mexico and central America can sweep inland and
   cause flooding in the southwestern U.S.. For central and southern
   Arizona, Ely and others (1993, Fig. 5) showed that floods related to
   tropical cyclones were associated with a high in the Aleutians and a
   low in the western U.S., a pattern similar to that for severe winter
   floods (compare Figs. 6A and 6B).

   figure 6a figure 6b
   Figure 6. Atmospheric circulation during severe winter and tropical
   cyclone floods. (A) Composite anomaly map of 700 mbar heights (in
   meters) assicaiated with winter floods on rivers in central Arizona;
   based on 8 cases from 1947-88. (B) Same as (A) for tropical cyclones
   assiciated with floods on rivers in central and southern Arizona; based
   on 7 cases. (Modified from Ely and others 1993)

   LARGE-SCALE ATMOSPHERIC CONVERGENCE

   In contrast to thermal-convectional processes within a single
   homogeneous air mass, the development of widespread precipitation from
   fronts and extratropical cyclones is dependent on the convergence of
   air masses of marked density contrast. Precipitation resulting from
   large-scale atmospheric convergence tends to have a greater geographic
   extent, less intensity, and a longer duration than does that resulting
   from thermal-convectional processes. The presence of converging air
   masses, however, can enhance atmospheric instability that induces
   localized thermal-convectional processes; hence, it is common for
   frontal activity to be characterized by widespread, moderate
   precipitation due to large-scale atmospheric convergence and localized,
   intense precipitation due to thunderstorms or squall lines in the
   vicinity of the front. When this occurs, large-scale riverine flooding
   and local flash flooding are possible.

   Due to its middle-latitude location, most of the conterminous United
   States underlies zones of convergence between polar and tropical air
   masses; the location of these zones varies from season to season (fig.
   2). Specific flood-causing processes that are associated with
   large-scale atmospheric convergence are extratropical cyclones and
   their associated fronts and wind patterns in the upper atmosphere that
   enhance convergence and instability near the land surface.

   Extratropical Cyclones and Their Associated Fronts

   Most major floods in large drainage basins in the conterminous United
   States are caused by precipitation from extratropical cyclones and
   their associated fronts. Systematic observations of the movement of
   extratropical cyclones and fronts across North America have identified
   a series of preferred tracks that define regions most susceptible to
   repeated passages of these cyclones and fronts (fig. 7). These
   preferred extratropical cyclone tracks shift to their southernmost
   trajectories in the winter and to their northernmost trajectories in
   the summer and have intermediate trajectories in the spring and fall.

   figure 7

   Figure 7. Primary tracks of extratropical cyclones in North America for
   four midseason months based on frequency of extratropical cyclones
   during 1951-70. A, January, B, April, C, July, D, October. (Modified
   from Reitan and others, 1974 and Reed, 1960)

   In the winter, virtually all States in the conterminous United States
   are, at least in part, susceptible to flooding caused by precipitation
   from extratropical cyclones and their associated fronts (fig. 7A).
   Extratropical cyclones from the Pacific Ocean associated with the
   Aleutian Low storm track successively enter the Northwestern States and
   bring rain to lower elevations and snow to higher elevations--some of
   which can contribute to snowmelt flooding during thaws. In the
   Northeastern States, substantial winter precipitation results from
   extratropical cyclones that originate in Alberta and Colorado. In the
   higher elevations of the Northeastern States, deep snow can accumulate,
   due in part to snow squalls generated by the thermal effects of the
   Great Lakes. This snow accumulation can result in flooding during thaws
   or periods of warmer rainfall. In the winter, East Coast States from
   Georgia to Maine are susceptible to flooding from intense precipitation
   and coastal storm surges produced by extratropical cyclones that track
   northeastward along the Atlantic seaboard. Also in the winter, Gulf
   Coast States experience flooding due to the frequent presence of fronts
   in the region. In this region, cold fronts in the winter commonly are
   accompanied by thunderstorms that can produce intense precipitation in
   the form of rain. In addition, stationary fronts tend to be alined with
   the Gulf Coast and commonly produce widespread, persistent rain that
   saturates the soil and increases the likelihood of flooding.

   In the spring, extratropical cyclones are quite active, and their
   trajectories shift slightly northward (fig. 7B). Extratropical cyclones
   that traverse the Southwestern and South-Central States become numerous
   in late winter and early spring, and frontal passages associated with
   these cyclones can produce substantial rainfall or late-season snowfall
   from the mountainous regions of the West all the way to the Northeast
   Coast. The other extratropical-cyclone tracks of spring are similar to
   those of winter but are shifted slightly to the north. The density
   contrasts between converging air masses are much greater in the spring,
   however, and greater volumes of precipitable water vapor are available
   in spring than in winter. These factors combine with the presence of
   saturated soil, frozen ground, and rapid snowmelt to make spring the
   season that has the greatest flooding potential in many areas of the
   conterminous United States.

   During the summer, most extratropical cyclonic activity shifts to the
   Northern States and Canada and to the northeastern seaboard (fig. 7C).
   Intense precipitation from convective thunderstorms associated with
   these cyclones and fronts can cause floods, especially when the
   precipitable water-vapor content of the atmosphere is unusually large
   and when fronts or low-pressure centers move slowly or become stalled.

   In the fall, extratropical-cyclone tracks are similar to those of
   summer but are shifted slightly to the south (fig. 7D).
   Northern-latitude extratropical cyclones are quite active during this
   season, but because the moisture content of the atmosphere is less than
   in the summer and soil-moisture storage has been depleted, flooding is
   less common than in the summer. An exception occurs in the far
   Northwestern States and Alaska, where extratropical cyclonic activity
   in the Gulf of Alaska is at a maximum. Here, strong extratropical
   cyclones from the North Pacific Ocean can produce widespread
   precipitation that may become locally intensified through orographic
   effects. Storm surges also can cause flooding along low-lying areas of
   the Alaskan coast.

   Precipitation-Enhancing, Upper Atmospheric Air Patterns

   The development and movement of extratropical cyclones and their
   associated fronts are related to large-scale convergence and divergence
   of strong winds in the overlying upper atmosphere. These strong winds
   have circulation patterns that vary in response to pressure and
   temperature gradients in the atmosphere. The fastest upper atmospheric
   winds, called jet streams, tend to overlie marked atmospheric
   temperature and density discontinuities near the surface of the Earth,
   especially those discontinuities that occur along frontal boundaries.
   The general direction of movement over North America is from west to
   east, but a sinuous movement pattern is typical, characterized by
   wave-like southerly and northerly components of wind direction. This
   sinuous movement of air in the upper atmosphere forms troughs of low
   pressure and ridges of high pressure that normally progress eastward
   from day to day. When this progression is stalled or blocked, the
   trough-and-ridge positions can remain quasi-stationary for several days
   and cause extratropical cyclones and associated fronts near the surface
   of the Earth to also become similarly quasi-stationary (fig. 8A). Under
   these conditions, the potential for severe flooding, such as occurred
   in April 1983 in Louisiana (fig. 8A), is great because prolonged
   precipitation is possible along the stalled front and because intense
   convective showers can develop repeatedly along squall lines in the
   unstable air in the vicinity of the front. A related situation that is
   likely to cause floods is the frequent recurrence of precipitation
   resulting from the repeated development of a trough-and-ridge pattern
   in approximately the same location during an extended period of several
   weeks or months. The precipitation that caused the severe spring floods
   of 1973 in the Mississippi River basin was a result of these conditions
   (Chin and others 1975).

   figure 8

   Figure 8. Precipitation-enhancing, upper atmospheric air patterns over
   various parts of North America. A, Quasi-stationary trough-and-ridge
   patterns. B, Development and dissipation of a cutoff low. C, Movement
   of small-scale, short-wave troughs of low pressure through large-scale,
   upper atmospheric air patterns. D, Multiple meteorologic features
   interacting with upper atmospheric air patterns. (Modified from Muller
   and Faiers, 1984; Hansen and others, 1988; Maddox and others, 1980;
   Hansen and Schwarz, 1981.)

   Another upper atmospheric air pattern that can produce flood-causing
   precipitation is the cutoff low (fig. 8B). This low is an upper
   atmospheric low-pressure system that originates as part of a trough but
   then becomes displaced to the south and is cut off from the main
   west-to-east component of wind direction. Cutoff lows may persist for
   several days in approximately the same location, especially if they are
   flanked by blocking ridges of high pressure to the west or east. When
   stalled in this manner, cutoff lows can induce atmospheric instability
   and precipitation near the surface of the Earth and can slow the
   eastward progression of fronts. The cutoff low shown in figure 8B was
   associated with flooding in east-central Colorado.

   Pulses of intense precipitation caused by the movement of small-scale,
   short-wave troughs of low pressure through the large-scale, upper
   atmospheric troughs or ridges also are potential producers of
   flood-causing precipitation (fig. 8C). Many severe flash floods in the
   Western and Central States have been associated with these short-wave
   troughs, including several of the largest rainfall-runoff floods ever
   recorded in the United States (Maddox and others, 1979, 1980;
   Hirschboeck, 1987a).

   Commonly, a precipitation-enhancing upper-atmospheric air pattern will
   occur in conjunction with other precipitation-producing meteorological
   features, and an extreme or catastrophic flood will ensue. Several such
   floods have occurred in the Southwestern States when moisture from
   dissipating tropical cyclones, which originated in the Pacific Ocean,
   became incorporated into cutoff lows, small-scale, short-wave troughs
   of low pressure, or slow-moving fronts near the surface of the Earth
   (fig. 8D). During the 3 days shown in figure 8D, moisture from
   dissipating Tropical Storm Norma interacted with an upper atmospheric
   cutoff low and a cold front to produce substantial precipitation that
   caused flooding in central Arizona. In the Central and Eastern States,
   floods caused by precipitation from the interaction of similar,
   multiple meteorological features have occurred, such as the floods of
   August 1978 in central Texas that were initiated by precipitation from
   remnants of Tropical Storm Amelia and compounded by precipitation
   caused by other lower and upper atmospheric meteorological factors
   (Schroeder and others, I987). Another multiple-feature interaction that
   is typical of the eastern United States is the merging of a tropical
   cyclone with an upper atmospheric trough of low pressure and its
   subsequent transformation into an extratropical cyclone. This occurred
   during Hurricanes Agnes, Carla, and Betsy (fig. 4B).

   OROGRAPHIC LlFTING

   In mountainous and hilly terrain, the release of moisture from the
   atmosphere by localized thermal convection, large-scale frontal
   convergence, or upper-air perturbations can be augmented by the process
   of orographic lifting. Orographic lifting is the forced ascent of an
   air current caused by its passage up and over a topographic barrier.
   Moist air that is lifted in this manner can cool sufficiently so that
   clouds will form and release some of the moisture as precipitation.
   Precipitation usually is greater at high elevations than on lowlands
   because of this process. Clouds and precipitation resulting from
   orographic lifting tend to be concentrated on the windward slopes of
   topographic barriers, so that windward slopes often are wet whereas the
   lee sides of slopes often are quite dry. Precipitation from orographic
   lifting can be locally intense, but it usually takes the form of
   moderate rain or snow that occurs regularly and persistently over
   specified areas and often yields extremely high totals of annual
   precipitation. When orographic lifting occurs in combination with other
   processes that release moisture in the atmosphere, substantial
   precipitation can result to produce a flood.

   Orographically enhanced precipitation can occur wherever there are
   mountains or irregular terrain but is most common in regions where
   mountain ranges lie perpendicular to the direction of prevailing winds
   that transport moisture-laden air. In the eastern part of the
   conterminous United States, a moderate orographic effect occurs when
   air from the Atlantic Ocean or Gulf of Mexico is forced up the
   foothills and slopes of the mountainous terrain that extends from
   Tennessee to Maine. In the western pan of the conterminous United
   States, the greatest orographic enhancement of precipitation occurs in
   the mountain ranges that parallel the west coasts of Washington,
   Oregon, and northern California and that lie in the path of westerly
   winds from the Pacific Ocean. In Alaska, orographically enhanced
   precipitation occurs where air currents from the Pacific Ocean move
   onshore and up the slopes of coastal mountain ranges, especially along
   the southern coast and in the southeastern panhandle region of the
   State. In Hawaii, steep, windward slopes that are perpendicular to the
   prevailing northeasterly trade winds receive abundant precipitation,
   whereas the lee sides of these slopes are often quite dry.

   Orographic lifting can be a factor in the occurrence of floods in
   several ways. Local flash floods are often the result of convective
   precipitation that has been orographically enhanced. The ascent of
   warm, moist, unstable air up the slopes of hills and mountains supports
   and enhances the development of severe thunderstorm cells that can
   yield substantial rainfall. Steep-sided valleys that are open to the
   inflow of moisture-laden winds can funnel moist air up the valley to
   the headwater area of a drainage basin. This topographically forced
   atmospheric convergence enhances instability in the air and promotes
   the development of clouds and heavy precipitation over the headwater
   area. In these instances, the terrain sometimes has an anchoring effect
   on a developing severe storm and causes the storm to remain
   quasi-stationary, while one thunderstorm cell after another is
   generated in roughly the same location. Precipitation from such a storm
   can be excessive and lead to severe flooding in small drainage basins.
   The destructive flash floods of June 9-10, 1972, in southwestern South
   Dakota (Schwarz and others, 1975) and July 31-August 1, 1976, in
   central Colorado (McCain and others, 1979) were floods caused by
   intense precipitation that was enhanced by orographic lifting.

   Orographic lifting can be an important factor in the occurrence of
   floods even in regions that do not have major mountain ranges. When
   abundant moisture is present in the air and other flood-causing
   meteorological processes are active, orographic lifting over hilly
   terrain often combines with these processes and enhances the
   development of thunderstorms that produce excessive precipitation. The
   floods of August 1978 in central Texas were of this type (Schroeder and
   others, 1987).

   Orographic lifting also has an influence on widespread, regional
   flooding. The persistence and regularity of orographically enhanced
   precipitation in certain areas can make these areas more susceptible to
   flooding because soils are more likely to stay close to saturation in
   such regions. Furthermore, many areas dominated by orographic lifting
   lie in the path of persistent storm tracks. In these regions, the
   passage of extratropical cyclones and their associated fronts can
   deliver widespread precipitation which, when locally enhanced and
   intensified by orographic lifting, can cause flooding in many drainage
   basins over a large area. The floods of December 1964-January 1965 in
   northern California were of this type (Waananen and others, 1971).
   Finally, winter precipitation in mountainous regions where orographic
   lifting is active usually results in the accumulation of extremely
   great snow depths at high altitudes. Spring snowmelt runoff from these
   areas can cause widespread flooding, especially during periods of rapid
   warming and when rain falling on snow accelerates the snowmelt process.

  ANTECEDENT LAND-SURFACE CONDITIONS

   Even the most intense precipitation produced by some of the processes
   described above might or might not cause a flood, depending on the
   antecedent conditions of the land surface that affect the infiltration
   of the precipitation. Extensively urbanized areas flood easily because
   of the decreased infiltration capacity of the land surface resulting
   from buildings, paved streets and parking lots, and sidewalks.
   Furthermore, areas that have steep slopes, sparse vegetation, thin or
   almost impermeable soils, or any combination of these characteristics
   have enhanced runoff because of limited infiltration. Climate also is a
   factor in determining the flood potential of a given area because
   climate controls the seasonal soil-moisture cycle and the presence of
   snow cover and frozen ground.

   SOIL MOISTURE

   When a soil has a substantial infiltration capacity, it can absorb all
   but the most prolonged or intense precipitation, thereby limiting
   excessive surface runoff. Once the soil is saturated, however, even
   light to moderate precipitation will become surface runoff, and the
   potential for flooding increases. The volume of moisture held in a soil
   at any given time is controlled climatically by the difference between
   precipitation that infiltrates the soil and evapotranspiration that
   removes moisture from the soil. The relation between these two
   processes varies geographically and seasonally. Precipitation varies in
   response to the moisture-delivery pathways and meteorological processes
   discussed earlier. Evapotranspiration varies in response to available
   solar and heat energy and is greatest during the summer, when days are
   longest and temperatures are highest. Evapotranspiration is least
   during the winter, especially at northern latitudes, where days are
   short and temperatures are low.

   figure 9

   Figure 9. effects of average monthly precipitation and soil moisture on
   susceptibility to flooding at San Diego, Calif., and Tucson, Ariz.
   Explanation: Blue bar, precipitation (inches); gray area, available
   soil-moisture storage capacity (in); pale blue area, soil moisture in
   storage (in); red ruled area, period of greatest susceptibility to
   flooding. (data from Mather, 1964)

   In most areas of the United States, the volume of stored soil moisture
   is greatest during the late winter and early spring, at the end of the
   period of least evapotranspirarion (fig. 9). Conversely, due to
   substantial evapotranspiration in the summer, moisture stored in the
   soil is least during the late summer and early fall throughout much of
   the Nation. This relation is true even in regions that have substantial
   precipitation in the summer. [For additional information on
   evapotranspiration, see "Evapotranspiration and Droughts"]

   These seasonal fluctuations in soil-moisture storage determine the
   susceptibility of an area to flooding at different times during the
   year (fig. 9). In most parts of the United States, the flooding
   potential from a storm of a given magnitude is greatest in the late
   winter and early spring and least in the late summer and early fall
   (fig. 10).

       figure 10

       Figure 10. Seasonal flood-climate regions in the United States.
       (Modified from Baldwin and McGuinness, 1963.)

   WINTER CONDITIONS IN THE SOUTHWEST

   Major regional floods such as those of 1993 are generally associated
   with repeated frontal passages in winter (House and Hirschboeck, 1997).
   These regional storms may cause the greatest loss because they effect
   several drainage basins and the severity of flooding increases rather
   than dissipates downstream. Ely and others (1993) studied weather
   patterns during modern floods (fig. 6) and concluded that "During
   winter floods, the typical circulation patterns features a strong
   southerly displaced low-pressure anomaly off the California coast and,
   to the north a high pressure anomaly over the Aleutians of the Gulf of
   Alaska". House and Hirscboeck (1997) point out that the steering of
   alternatively warm and cold storms into the southwest along a southerly
   displaced storm track is "enhanced by an active subtropical jet stream,
   common during El Niño-Southern oscillation periods".

   MIXED POPULATIONS OF FLOODS

   The previous sections of this article have illustrated the variety of
   climatic processes that cause floods in the United States. An important
   reason for understanding these processes is that a better knowledge of
   the processes may improve predictions of future flooding.

   Floods caused by distinctly different climatic processes commonly have
   distinctly different magnitude and frequency relations. A variety of
   studies have examined the nature of these differences by separating
   flood data for a station into two or more populations on the basis of
   the climatic causes of the floods (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 1958;
   Elliott and others, 1982; Jarrett and Costa, 1982; Waylen and Woo,
   1982; Hirschboeck, 1987b). Results of these studies for different
   regions have indicated that floods caused only by snowmelt, by rain on
   snow, and only by rain form distinct populations; floods caused by rain
   on snow or only by rain tend to have larger magnitudes than do floods
   caused only by snowmelt. In parts of the arid Southwest, floods caused
   by precipitation from frontal passages in the winter tend to be larger
   than floods caused by precipitation from convectional storms in the
   summer. In the Southwest and Northeast, floods caused by precipitation
   from tropical cyclones tend to have a greater magnitude than do floods
   caused by precipitation from storms other than tropical cyclones.
   Floods caused by precipitation from tropical cyclones commonly include
   the peak flow of record. By defining regions where climatically
   separated flood populations are distinct, and by effectively applying
   appropriate statistical procedures to compute flood probabilities from
   mixed populations, hydrologists generally can determine more accurate
   estimates of the 10-, 50-, or 100-year floods.

   Ely and others (1993) also documented and determined the ages of 251
   floods in 19 river basins in the Southwestern United States (fig. 5).
   Figure 5 shows that intervals of flooding are correlated with periods
   of cool, moist climate and frequent El Niño events. In regard to
   possible global warming, they also note that "transitional climate
   events may contain the highest hydrologic variance" (possible intervals
   with drought and floods). Curiously from 3600-2200 years B.P., no large
   floods were documented, and a sharp drop in the number of large floods
   occurred between 600 and 800 years B.P. (fig 5).

  CONCLUSIONS

   Floods are caused by meteorological processes that deliver more
   precipitation or runoff to a drainage basin than can be absorbed
   readily or stored within the basin. The most important sources of
   flood-causing precipitation and runoff in the United States are
   extratropical cyclones and their associated fronts; convective
   thunderstorms, especially when they occur in mesoscale convective
   systems; and tropical cyclones. Extratropical cyclones and their
   associated fronts are important sources of flood-causing precipitation
   in all seasons, although they predominate in the winter and spring,
   when the effects of their flood-causing precipitation are enhanced by
   saturated soil and melting snow. In the summer and fall, convective
   storms--thunderstorms and tropical cyclones--caused by warmer
   temperatures and enhanced by large influxes of precipitable water vapor
   increase in frequency and become more important as sources of
   flood-causing precipitation because the extremely intense precipitation
   of convective storms can produce substantial runoff, despite seasonally
   small values of soil-moisture storage. Precipitation occurring from any
   of the above processes can be enhanced by orographic lifting to cause
   flooding in regions that have mountainous or hilly terrain.

   The meteorological processes that produce flood-causing precipitation
   and runoff in the United States occur within a much larger climatic
   context that is global in extent. The seasonal and geographic
   distributions of flood-causing precipitation and runoff are related to
   the large-scale, general circulation of the atmosphere, which
   determines the seasonal availability and large-scale delivery pathways
   of atmospheric moisture. Within a given season, the frequency, typical
   locations, and degree of persistence of the meteorological processes
   that release the delivered moisture to cause a flood are influenced by
   large-scale, atmospheric circulation patterns that develop over areas
   that are much larger than the flood-affected region. Furthermore, the
   large-scale climatic framework that influences the occurrence of floods
   can have a continuity that is much longer than the period of flooding.
   This occurs when the climate-related, land-surface conditions that
   affect flood runoff--such as saturated soils or extensive snow
   cover--develop over a period of several weeks or months.

   The role of climate in the occurrence of floods varies from region to
   region in the United States. Some regions are dominated by several
   different sources of flood-causing precipitation during the year,
   whereas other regions are dominated by only one or two. Floods caused
   by distinctly different climatic processes have distinctly different
   magnitude and frequency relations. Continued investigation into the
   effects of multiple sources of flood-producing precipitation will
   provide hydrologists with more accurate flood estimates, in addition to
   a better understanding of the flooding process itself.

   For the dry Southwestern U.S. specifically, floods can wreck havoc.
   Their severity and frequency appears to co-vary with El Niño. Studies
   of El Niño-Southern Oscillation through time suggests changes in the
   1990¹s that may be related to global warming (Trenberth and Hoar,
   1996). If global warming occurs and El Niño increases with global
   warming, then winter flooding might be expected to increase. Studies
   such as that by Ely and others (1993) of past frequency of large floods
   and their association with changes in winter or summer climate can
   better assess what flood frequencies may be associated with different
   patterns of climate change.

  REFERENCES CITED

   Aldridge, B.N., 1970, Floods of November 1965 to January 1966 in the
   Gila River basin, Arizona and New Mexico, and adjacent basins in
   Arizona: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 1850-C, 176 p.

   Aldridge, B.N., and Eychaner, J.H., 1982, Floods of October 1977 in
   southern Arizona and March 1978 in central Arizona: U.S. Geological
   Survey Open-File Report 82-687, 167 p.

   Augustine, J.A., and Howard, K.W., 1988, Mesoscale convectivc complexes
   over the United States during 1985: Monthly Weather Review, v. 116, no.
   3, p. 685-701.

   Bailey, J.F., Patterson, J.L., and Paulhus, J.L., 1975, Hurricane Agnes
   rainfall and floods, June-July 1972: U.S. Geological Survey
   Professional Paper 924, 403 p.

   Baldwin, H.L., and McGuinness, C.L., 1963, A primer on ground water:
   U.S. Geological Survey Special Book, p. 21.

   Bryson, R.A., and Hare, F.K., 1974, The climates of North America, in
   Bryson, R.A., and Hare, F.K., eds., Climates of North America, world
   survey of climatology, v. 11: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Elsevier, p.
   1-47.

   Burmeister, I.L., 1985, June 1984 floods on the Missouri River and
   tributaries, in U.S. Geological Survey, National water summary
   1984--Hydrologic events, selected water-quality trends, and
   ground-water resources: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 2275,
   p. 40-41.

   Chappell, C.F., 1986, Quasi-stationary convective events, in Ray, P.S.,
   ed., Mesoscale meteorology and forecasting: Boston, Mass., American
   Meteorological Society, p. 289-310.

   Chin, E.H., Skelton, John, and Guy, H.P., 1975, The 1973 Mississippi
   River basin flood--Compilation and analyses of meteorologic,
   streamflow, and sediment data: U.S. Geological Survey Professional
   Paper 937, 137 p.

   Church, Michael, 1988, Floods in cold climates, in Baker, V.R., Kochel,
   R.C., and Patton, P.C., eds., Flood geomorphology: New York, John
   Wiley, p. 205-229.

   Clark, G.M., Jacobson, R.B., Kite, J.S., and Linton, R.C., 1987,
   Storm-induced catastrophic flooding in Virginia and West Virginia,
   November, 1985, in Mayer, Larry, and Nash, David, eds., Catastrophic
   flooding: Boston, Mass., Allen and Unwin, p. 355-379.

   Costa, J.E., 1987, Hydraulics and basin morphometry of the largest
   flash floods in the conterminous United States: Journal of Hydrology,
   v. 93, no. 3/4, p. 313-338.

   Court, Arnold, 1980, Tropical cyclone effects on California: National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Technical Memorandum NWS WR-159,
   41 p.

   Court, Arnold, and Griffiths, J.F., 1983, Thunderstorm climatology, in
   Kessler, Edwin, ed., Thunderstorm morphology and dynamics: Norman,
   University of Oklahoma Press, p. 9-39.

   Cry, G.W., 1967, Effects of tropical eyclone rainfall on the
   distribution of precipitation over the eastern and southern United
   States: U.S. Department of Commerce, Environmental Science Services
   Administration Professional Paper 1, 67 p.

   Cry, G.W., Caso, E.L., and Jarvinen, B.R.., 1981, Tropical cyclones of
   the North Atlantic Ocean 1871-1980 (revised): Asheville, N.C., National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Climatic Center, 174
   p.

   Douglas, A.V., Blackmon, R.H., and Englehart, P.J., 1987, Mesoscale
   convective complexes in extreme western Mexico--A regional response to
   broadscale drought, in Climate Diagnostics Workshop, 11th, Champaign,
   111., 1987, Proeeedings: National Oceanic and Atmospherie
   Administration, p. 129-140.

   Eagleman, J.R., 1983, Severe and unusual weather: New York, Van
   Nostrand Reinhold, 372 p.

   Edelen, G.W., Jr., and Miller, J.F., 1976, Floods of March-April 1973
   in southeastern United States: U.S. Geological Survey Professional
   Paper 998, 283 p.

   Edelen, G.W., Jr., Wilson, K.V., Hawkins, J.R., Miller, J.F., and Chin,
   E.H., 1986, Floods of April 1979, Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia:
   U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1319, 212 p.

   Elliot, J.G., Jarrett, R.D., and Ebling, J.L., 1982, Annual snowmelt
   and rainfall peak-flow data on selected foothills region streams, South
   Platte River, Arkansas River, and Colorado River basins, Colorado: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File Report 82-426, 88 p.

   Ely, L.L., Enzel, Yehoda, Baker, V.R., and Cayan, D.R., 1993, A
   5,000-year record of extreme floods and climate change in the
   southwestern United States: Science, v. 262, p. 410-412.

   Fontaine, R.A., 1987, Flood of April 1987 in Maine, Massachusetts, and
   New Hampshire: U.S. Geologieal Survey Open-File Report 87-460, 35 p.

   Glancy, P.A., and Harmsen, Lynn, 1975, A hydrologic assessment of the
   September 14, 1974, flood in Eldorado Canyon, Nevada: U.S. Geological
   Survey Professional Paper 930, 28 p.

   Glatfelter, D.R., Butch, G.K., and Stewart, J.A., 1984, Floods of March
   1982, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio: U.S. Geological Survey
   Water-Resources Investigations 83-4201, 40 p.

   Gray, W.M., 1979, Hurricanes--Their formation, structure, and likely
   role in the tropical circulation, in Shaw, D.B., ed., Meteorology over
   the tropical oceans: London, Royal Meteorological Society, p. 155-218.

   Hansen, E.M., and Schwarz, F.K., 1981, Meteorology of important
   rainstorms in the Colorado River and Great Basin drainages: National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Hydrometeorological Report 50,
   167 p.

   Hansen, E.M., Fenn, D.D., Schreiner, L.C., Stodt, R.W., and Miller,
   J.F., 1988, Probable maximum precipitation estimates--United States
   between the Continental Divide and the 103rd meridian: National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration Hydrometeorological Report 55A, 242 p.

   Harris, D.D., and Nakahara, R.H., 1980, Flood of February 20, 1979, in
   Hilo, Kau, and Puna Districts, Island of Hawaii: U.S. Geological Survey
   Circular 81, 28 p.

   Hauth, L.D., 1985, Floods in central, southwest Oklahoma, October
   17-23, 1983: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 85-494, 17 p.

   Hauth, L.D., Carswell, W.J., Jr., and Chin, E.H., 1981, Floods in
   Kansas City, Missouri and Kansas, September 12-13, 1977: U.S.
   Geological Survey Professional Paper 1169, 47 p.

   Hayden, B.P., 1988, Flood climates, in Baker, V.R., Kochel, R.C., and
   Patton, P.C., eds., Flood geomorphology: New York, John Wiley, p.
   13-26.

   Hirschboeck, K.K. 1991, Climate and floods, in National Water Summary
   1988-89, Hydrologic Events of Floods and Droughts: U.S. Geological
   Survey Water Supply paper 2375, p.67-88.

   ____1987a, Catastrophic flooding and atmospheric circulation anomalies,
   in Mayer, Larry, and Nash, David, eds., Catastrophic flooding: Boston,
   Mass., Allen and Unwin, p. 23-56.

   ____1987b, Hydroclimatically defined mixed distributions in partial
   duration flood series, in Singh, V.P., ed., Hydrologic frequency
   modeling: Boston, Mass., D. Reidel, p. 192-205.

   House, P.K., and Hirschboeck, K.K. 1997 (in press).
   Hydroloclimatological and peleohydrological context of extreme winter
   flooding in Arizona, 1993, in Larson, R.A., and Slosson, J.E., eds.,
   Effects of the 1992-1993 Winter Storms on Southern California and
   Arizona: Boulder, Colorado, Geological Society of America Engineering
   Geology Case Histories Number 12, p.

   Hoxit L.R., Maddox, R.A., Chappell, C.F., and Brua, S.A., 1982,
   Johnstown--Western Pennsylvania storm and floods of July 19-20, 1977:
   U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1211, 68 p.

   Jarrett, R.D., and Costa, J.E., 1982, Multidisciplinary approach to the
   flood hydrology of foothills streams in Colorado, in Johnson, A.J., and
   Clark, R.A., eds., International Symposium on Hydrometeorology, Denver,
   Colo., 1982, Proceedings: American Water Resources Association, p.
   565-569.

   Lamke, R.D., and Bigelow, B.B., 1987, Floods of October 1986 in
   south-central Alaska: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 87-391,
   31 p.

   Lowham, H.W., and Druse, S.A., 1986, Storm and flood of August 1, 1985,
   in Cheyenne, Wyoming, in U.S. Geological Survey, National water summary
   1985- Hydrologic events and surface-water resources: U.S. Geological
   Survey Water-Supply Paper 2300, p. 41-42.

   Lumia, Richard, Burke, P.M., and Johnston, W.H., 1987, Flooding of
   December 29, 1984, through January 2, 1985, in northern New York State,
   with flood profiles of the Black and Salmon Rivers: U.S. Geological
   Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 86-4191, 53 p.

   Maddox, R.A., 1980, Mesoscale convective complexes: American
   Meteorological Society Bulletin, v. 61, no. 11, p. 1374-87.

   ____1983, Large-scale meteorological conditions associated with
   midlatitude, mesoscale convective complexes: Monthly Weather Review, v.
   111, no. 7, p. 1475-1493.

   Maddox, R.A., Canova, Faye, and Hoxit, L.R., 1980, Meteorological
   characteristics of flash floods over the western United States: Monthly
   Weather Review, v. 108, no. 11, p. 1866-1877.

   Maddox, R.A., Chappell, C.F., and Hoxit, L.R., 1979, Synoptic and
   mesoscale aspects of flash flood events: American Meteorological
   Society Bulletin, v. 60, no. 2, p. 115-123.

   Maddox, R.A., Howard, K.W., Bartels, D.L., and Rodgers, D.M., 1986,
   Mesoscale convective complexes in the middle latitudes, in Ray, P.S.,
   ed., Mesoscale meteorology and forecasting: Boston, American
   Meteorological Society, p. 390-414.

   Maddox, R.A., Rodgers, D.M., and Howard, K.W., 1982, Mesoscale
   convective complexes over the United States during 1981--Annual
   summary: Monthly Weather Review, v. 110, no. 10, p. 1501-1514.

   Mather, J.R., ed., 1964, Average climatic water balance data of the
   continents, pt. VII, United States of Publications in climatology:
   Centerton, N.J., C.W. Thornthwaite Associates Laboratory of
   Climatology, v. XVII, no. 3, p. 419-615.

   McCain, J.F., Hoxit, L.R., Maddox, R.A., Chappell, C.F., and Carcena,
   Fernando, 1979, Storm and flood of July 31-August 1, 1976, in the Big
   Thompson River and Cache la Poudre River basins, Larimer and Weld
   Counties, Colorado--Meteorology and hydrology in Big Thompson River and
   Cache la Poudre River basins: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper
   1115-A, p. 1-85.

   Meier, M.F., 1986, Snow, ice, and climate--Their contribution to water
   supply, in U.S. Geological Survey, National water sumrnary
   1985--Hydrologic events and surface-water resources: U.S. Geological
   Survey Water-Supply Paper 2300, p. 69-82.

   Morrill, R.A., Chin, E.H., and Richardson, W.S., 1979, Maine coastal
   storm and flood of February 2, 1976: U.S. Geological Survey
   Professional Paper 1087, 20 p.

   Muller, R.A., and Faiers, G.E., eds., 1984, A clirnatic perspective of
   Louisiana floods during 1982-1983: Baton Rouge, Louisiana State
   University, Geoscience Publications, 48 p.

   Parrett, Charles, Carlson, D.D., and Craig, G.S., 1984, Floods of May
   1978 in southeastern Montana and northeastern Wyoming: U.S. Geological
   Survey Professional Paper 1244, 74 p.

   Rabenhorst, T.D., 1981, An atlas of the United States: University of
   Maryland Baltimore County, Department of Geography, 83 p.

   Ray, P.S., ed., 1986, Mesoscale meteorology and forecasting: Boston,
   American Meteorological Society, 793 p.

   Reed, R.J., 1960, Principal frontal zones of the Northern Hemisphere in
   winter and summer: American Meteorological Society Bulletin, v. 41, no.
   11, p. 591-598.

   Reitan, C.H., 1960, Distribution of precipitable water vapor over the
   continental United States: American Meteorological Society Bulletin, v.
   41, no. 2, p. 79-87.

   ____1974, Frequencies of cyclones and cyclogenesis for North America,
   1951-1970: Monthly Weather Review, v. 102, no. 12, p. 861-868.

   Rodgers, D.M., and Howard, K.W., 1983, Mesoscale convective complexes
   over the United States during 1982--Annual summary: Monthly Weather
   Review, v. 111, no. 12, p. 2363-2369.

   Runner, G.S., and Chin, E.H., 1980, Flood of April 1977 in the
   Appalachian region of Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia:
   U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1098, 43 p.

   Saarinen, T.F., Baker, V.R., Durrenberger, Robert, and Maddock, Thomas,
   Jr., 1984, The Tucson, Arizona, flood of October 1983: Washington,
   D.C., National Academy Press, National Research Council, Committee on
   Natural Disasters, 112 p.

   Sauer, V.B., and Fulford, J.M., 1983, Floods of December 1982 and
   January 1983 in central and southern Mississippi River basin: U.S.
   Geological Survey Open-File Report 83-213, 41 p.

   Schroeder, E.E., Massey, B.C., and Chin, E.H., 1987, Floods in central
   Texas, August 1-4, 1978: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper
   1332, 39 p.

   Schwarz, F.K., Hughes, L.A., Hansen, E.M., Petersen, M.S., and Kelly,
   D.B., 1975, The Black Hills-Rapid City flood of June 9-10, 1972--A
   description of the storm and flood: U.S. Geological Survey Professional
   Paper 877, 47 p.

   Smith, W.S., 1986, The effects of eastern North Pacific tropical
   cyclones on the southwestern United States: National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration Technical Memorandum NWS WR-197, 229 p.

   Smith, W.S., and Gall, R.L., 1989, Tropical squall lines of the Arizona
   monsoon: Monthly Weather Review, v. 117, no. 7, p. 1553-1569.

   Thomas, C.A., and Lamke, R.D., 1962, Floods of February 1962 in
   southern Idaho and northeastern Nevada: U.S. Geological Survey Circular
   467, 30 p.

   Trenberth, K.E., and Hoar, T.J., 1996, The 1990-1995 El Niño-Southern
   Oscillation event longest on record: Geophysical Research Letters, v.
   23, No. 1, p. 57-60.

   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 1958, Frequency of New England floods:
   Sacramento District, Research Note 1, 4 p.

   ____1966, Hurricane Betsy, 8-11 September 1965-- After-action report:
   New Orleans District, 73 p.

   ____1970, Report on Hurricane Camille, 14-22 August 1969: New Orleans
   District, 143 p.

   U.S. Weather Bureau, 1964, Frequency of maximum water equivalent of
   March snow cover in north central United States: U.S. Weather Bureau
   Technical Paper 50, 24 p.

   Waananen, A.O., Harris, D.D., and Williams, R.C., 1971, Floods of
   December 1964 and January 1965 in the Far Western States: U.S.
   Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 1866-A, 265 p.

   Waylen, Peler, and Woo, Ming-Ko, 1982, Prediction of annual floods
   generated by mixed processes: Water Resources Research, v. 18, no. 4,
   p. 1283-1286.

   Webber, E.E., 1982, Flood of June 13-15, 1981, in the Blanchard River
   basin, northwestern Ohio: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources
   Investigations Report 82-4044, 32 p.

   Wendland, W.M., and Bryson, R.A., 1981, Northern hemisphere airstream
   regions: Monthly Weather Review, v. 109, no. 2, p. 255-270

   Wilson, K.V., and Hudson, J.W., 1969, Hurricane Camille tidal floods of
   August 1969 along the Gulf Coast, Kiln quadrangle, Mississippi: U.S.
   Geological Survey Hydrologic Investigations Atlas HA-397.
     __________________________________________________________________

                   button bar for page footers (imagemap)
      Read discussion || Add a comment || Subscribe || Register || Help
     __________________________________________________________________

   [usgs-mini.gif]

   This page is
   <URL:http://geochange.er.usgs.gov/sw/changes/natural/floods/>
   Maintained by Peter Schweitzer and Randy Schumann
   Last updated 10 Jul 1997
