http://www.ned.uscourts.gov/pacer/index.html

                        US District Court - Nebraska

                              PACER Information

                                    line

   PACER is our Public Access to Court Electronic Records system. It
   provides case information over the Internet or over a dial-up line.

   PACER information covers Civil back to January of 1991 and Criminal
   back to August 1991. Many open cases were also put on the system, so
   there may be a few older cases, but not every case.
   P.L. 101515, the Judiciary Appropriations Act of 1991, signed in
   November 1990 gave the Judiciary the authority to establish access fees
   and therefore permitted nationwide expansion of the public access
   program since Congress had appropriated no funds for its operation. The
   United States Congress has given the Judicial Conference of the United
   States, the judicial governing body of the U.S. Federal Courts,
   authority to impose user fees for electronic access to case
   information.
   As per 28 USC Sec. 1914 all registered agencies or individuals will be
   charged the fee of $.60 a minute for dial-up PACER (Public Access to
   Court Electronic Records) service. Also, PACER is now available for
   some courts on the Internet in a web-based format. Beginning October 1,
   1999, an access fee of $.07 per page will be assessed for access to
   PACER service on the Internet.
   Web PACER is available at http://pacer.ned.uscourts.gov
   PACER Information and Signup is available on the PACER Service Center
   website at http://pacer.psc.uscourts.gov or 800-676-6856.

                               [usdcline.jpg]

                                  Opinions

   Selected court opinions are available on the Nebraska Bar Association
   website.
   The list of opinions on that site is not comprehensive. In the US
   District Court, District of Nebraska, each judge decides whether or not
   to post opinions. If you do not find the opinion you are looking for,
   please contact the Clerk's Office at 402-661-7350.
   To view opinions, go to the NE bar website at www.nebar.com. Click on
   Court Opinions, then click on US District Court. Opinions are available
   by Name or Case Number.
   Our court will be migrating to the Electronic Case Filing system in
   2002. Once that system is in place, opinions will be available thru the
   PACER system for a nominal charge. More information on PACER is
   available on the top of this page.

                               [usdcline.jpg]
              Please send suggestions, comments or criticism to
                          emailus@ned.uscourts.gov
                          Back to USDC-NE Home Page
