http://www.coh.osmre.gov/Annual%20Report/2000OHAR.htm

                          Office of Surface Mining
                         Reclamation and Enforcement
                      Annual Evaluation Summary Report

                            Evaluation Year 2000
     __________________________________________________________________

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

   Click on Link to Navigate to Section
   I. Introduction

   II. Overview of the Ohio Coal Mining Industry

   III. Overview of the Public Participation Opportunities

   IV. Major Accomplishments/Issues/Innovations

   A. Program Accomplishments and Initiatives

   B. Program Issues

   V. Success in Achieving the Purposes of SMCRA

   A. Off-Site Impacts

   B. Bond Release/Reclamation Success

   VI. OSM Assistance

   VII. General Oversight Topic Reviews

   Appendix A: Tabular Summary of Core Data to Characterize the Program

   Appendix B: Ohio's Comments on the Draft Report
     __________________________________________________________________

   I. Introduction

   The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA) created
   the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) in the
   Department of the Interior. SMCRA provides authority to OSM to oversee
   the implementation of and provide Federal funding for State regulatory
   programs that OSM has approved as meeting the minimum standards
   specified by SMCRA. This report contains summary information regarding
   the Ohio Program and the effectiveness of the Ohio Program in meeting
   the applicable purposes of SMCRA as specified in section 102. This
   report covers the period of October 1, 1999, to September 30, 2000.
   Detailed background information and comprehensive reports for the
   program elements evaluated during the period are available for review
   and copying at the Columbus OSM Office.

   The following acronyms are used in this report:

   ABS           Alternative Bonding System
   ACOE           US Army Corps of Engineers
   ACSI          Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative
   AEP            American Electric Power
   AMD           Acid mine drainage
   AMDAT         Acid mine drainage treatment and abatement plan
   AML           Abandoned mine land
   ARP           Application to Revise a Permit
   ATP           Authorization to Proceed
   CERCLA        Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
                 Liability Act
   CFR           Code of Federal Regulations
   CHIA          Cumulative Hydrologic Impact Assessment
   EPA            Environmental Protection Agency
   EY            Evaluation Year
   HRWRP          Huff Run Watershed Restoration Partnership
   NEPA          National Environmental Policy Act
   NRCS           Natural Resource Conservation Service
   OAC            Ohio Administrative Code
   Ohio          Ohio Division of Mineral Resources Management
   OSM           Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
   PPD            Policy Procedures Directive
   PRP           Principle Responsible Parties
   RC&D          Resource Conservation and Development Council
   RCIC           Raccoon Creek Improvement Committee
   SMCRA         Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act


   II. Overview of the Ohio Coal Mining Industry

   Forty-eight mining companies produced 22.5 million tons of coal in
   1999, a substantial decrease of 18.8 percent over 1998 production. The
   total coal sold in 1999 was 23.3 million tons with a value of $643
   million. The average price per ton of coal was $27.38, a slight
   decrease from the 1998 average of $27.97.
   The number of coal-producing companies in Ohio decreased from 52 in
   1998 to 48 in 1999. The number of producing mines decreased from129
   to11 [image002.gif] 6. During 1999, surface mining operations at 108
   mines produced 11.0 million tons (49 percent of total production).
   There was a 16 percent decline in coal production from surface mines
   from 1998. Underground mining at eight mines produced 11.5 million tons
   (51 percent of total production). There was a 22 percent decline in
   production from underground mines from 1998. Longwall mining of 7.8
   million tons accounted for 67.4 percent of the total underground
   production (35 percent of total production).

   The Ohio coal industry employed 3063 people in 1999, down 10 percent
   from 3397 in 1998. Production employees, numbering 1721, accounted for
   56 percent of the 1999 coal work force. Wages earned by all coal
   industry employees in 1999 totaled more than $153.2 million, also down
   10 percent from 1998.

   Ohio ranked 14th of the 25 coal-producing States in the nation and
   produced 2.1 percent of the nation's coal in 1999. In 1998, Ohio ranked
   twelfth in the nation and produced 2.8 percent of the nation's coal.
   Ohio ranked third nationally in coal consumption, behind Texas and
   Indiana.

   (Data source: Ohio Geological Survey, 1999 Report on Ohio Mineral
   Industries )

   III. Overview of the Public Participation Opportunities in the
   Oversight Process and the State Program

   As reported in previous oversight reports, the Ohio Division of Mineral
   Resources Management (Ohio) has continued several efforts to keep the
   public informed of activities related to mining and reclamation, in
   addition to the routine public participation opportunities specified in
   the Ohio program. Ohio maintains an Internet web page that provides
   basic program information to the public. Ohio maintains an open public
   records policy. Ohio meets quarterly with a group of industry
   representatives as an extension of its permitting workgroup. The
   workgroup discusses issues related to Ohio's permitting process and
   other topics of general interest to the industry. Ohio conducts annual
   public meetings to obtain information about potential AML projects from
   citizens. Ohio developed a citizen guide that provides information on
   all of its programs related to mining. Ohio also continued its efforts
   with the Ohio Mine Subsidence Insurance Underwriting Association to
   educate local governmental agencies and local planning commissions
   about mine subsidence. These efforts included conducting public
   meetings, working to provide maps of abandoned underground mines to
   local agencies, and making the maps available over the Internet.

   In addition to outreach efforts by Ohio, OSM also conducts outreach to
   the public. OSM maintains a mailing list of interested persons,
   including representatives of industry, environmental and citizen
   groups, and individuals who have expressed interest in mining in Ohio.
   OSM routinely sends out notices of Federal Register publications
   concerning public comment periods regarding Ohio program amendments and
   OSM's proposed rule-making actions. OSM prepares and distributes a
   monthly newsletter to everyone on the OSM mailing list. The OSM
   newsletter provides information on current activities of the agency,
   oversight updates, and Oversight and Inspection Office activities. OSM
   also maintains an Internet web site that provides OSM news and
   information on a national level. The Oversight and Inspection Office
   has its own Internet web site (www:coh.osmre.gov) that includes items
   such as performance agreements, final oversight reports, and our
   monthly newsletter.

   Ohio and OSM made presentations at the Ohio Coal Association's annual
   meeting.

   Ohio and OSM continued to work together to organize and support
   development of local watershed groups in support of the Appalachian
   Clean Streams Initiative (ACSI). OSM and Ohio continued to support
   activities of the Monday Creek Restoration Project and the Raccoon
   Creek Improvement Committee by attending meetings of these
   organizations. OSM also attended meetings or otherwise participated
   with several other watershed organizations interested in watershed
   restoration including: Duck Creek, Huff Run, Mill Run, Leading Creek,
   Moxahala Creek, Sunday Creek, Wills Creek, and Yellow Creek.

   OSM and Ohio participated in meetings of the Ohio Mineland Partnership
   to exchange information concerning reclamation of abandoned mine lands
   and to promote OSM's ACSI and remining initiatives. The Ohio Mineland
   Partnership is a citizen's group seeking more funding for AML
   reclamation.

   IV. Major Accomplishments/Issues/Innovations in the Ohio Program

   A. Program Accomplishments and Initiatives

   On-the-Ground Accomplishments

   Ohio continues to effectively administer SMCRA regulatory and AML
   programs to protect coal field citizens and to restore land to
   pre-mining conditions. Overall industry compliance on active mine sites
   continues at a high level. The on-the-ground, end-result of the mining
   and reclamation process is predominantly restoration of mined lands to
   a pasture/grazing post-mining land use, with permanent water
   impoundments interspersed to support the land use. OSM's evaluation
   identified areas outside of the permitted area with minor impacts
   related to hydrology as a result of mining. OSM also identified three
   major hydrologic impacts related to water supply and wetland
   degradation/loss. OSM's general characterization of the on-the-ground
   accomplishments are based on OSM's experience with mining and
   reclamation in Ohio. Observations regarding industry compliance and
   off-site impacts are supported by OSM's findings from 195 site visits
   on regulatory sites, 45 site visits on AML and AML emergency sites, and
   other oversight evaluations conducted during this review period.
   Section VII of this report contains additional information on the
   number of inspections and site visits conducted.

   [image004.gif]

   During the 2000 Evaluation Year (EY), October 1, 1999, through
   September 30, 2000, the Ohio mining industry, in conjunction with the
   Ohio Division of Mines and Reclamation, achieved final reclamation
   (Phase III bond release) on 6926 acres, compared to 5170 acres last
   year; established soil replacement and vegetation for Phase II bond
   release on 3193 acres, compared to 6653 acres last year; and backfilled
   and graded mining areas for Phase I bond release on 2556 acres,
   compared to 4398 acres last year.

   AML Accomplishments

   The Ohio AML program continues to abate problems related to abandoned
   mines through its emergency and regular AML programs.

   Ohio identified and abated 22 emergency conditions during EY2000,
   eleven projects less than in each of the two previous years. The
   emergency projects included: 13 for mine subsidence; five vertical
   shafts; one portal, two landslides; and one dangerous impoundment.
   [image006.gif]

   One noteworthy project was a landslide that affected a home. The
   landslide, caused by an abandoned mine, made the house uninhabitable.
   The area was so unstable that workers were unable to safely work around
   the house to stabilize it. The house had to be destroyed so the slide
   could be stabilized to prevent it from impacting the street below. The
   AML Emergency Program only provides for correction of the emergency
   condition and does not provide for relocation of impacted parties.
   Therefore, Ohio worked with other Federal, State, and local government
   agencies to successfully relocate the resident, dismantle the house,
   and stabilize the landslide.

   Ohio reported the following accomplishments in the Abandoned Mined Land
   Inventory System (AMLIS):
     * 1.4 miles of clogged stream restored
     * 187.9 acres of clogged stream lands reclaimed
     * 3975 feet of dangerous highwall eliminated
     * one dangerous impoundment reclaimed
     * 14.9 acres of dangerous landslide stabilized
     * 25 acres of gob reclaimed
     * 400 feet of highwall reclaimed
     * two hazardous water bodies reclaimed
     * five portals sealed
     * 28 contaminated domestic water supplies replaced
     * 4.5 acres of subsidence stabilized
     * five vertical openings sealed

   Reorganization

   Ohio experienced a major reorganization resulting in new and additional
   responsibilities during this evaluation period. On July 1, 2000, the
   Ohio Division of Mines and Reclamation and the Ohio Division of Oil and
   Gas merged into one new agency within the Ohio Department of Natural
   Resources. The new agency is called the Division of Mineral Resources
   Management. The new agency has responsibility for coal mining,
   industrial mineral mining, oil and gas production, mine safety, and
   abandoned mines and wells. Michael Sponsler, the new chief of the
   division, has implemented a comprehensive reorganization plan developed
   by the Department of Natural Resources. The reorganization includes
   many changes in the management structure to manage the combined
   responsibilities of both divisions. Ohio held a Future Search
   Conference in September to help the transition into one division and to
   develop a strategic plan for the new agency. The conference included
   internal managers and staff as well as external customers.

   Ohio plans an extensive cross-training program especially directed to
   the inspection staff. The objective is that inspectors will be
   cross-trained to inspect all facilities: oil and gas, coal, and
   industrial minerals under a new classification called a Mineral
   Resources Inspector.

   As with any major reorganization and new managers, the transition will
   take some time to become fully implemented.

   Lands Unsuitable for Mining and Exemption Decision

   In 1998, Ohio issued a decision on two petitions to deem land
   unsuitable for mining in and around Dysart Woods, an old-growth forest
   in Belmont County. This decision was appealed by both industry and
   environmental groups. A hearing on these appeals has not been held,
   pending appeals on a related issue. This issue is a request from a
   mining company that mining rights on property owned by this company
   within the petition area be exempt from the lands unsuitable process
   because of substantial legal and financial commitments by this company
   prior to January 4, 1977. Since Ohio determined that the area was
   suitable for underground mining of the Meigs Creek and Pittsburgh coal
   seams (mining rights owned by the mining company requesting the
   exemption), Ohio determined that the need to issue a decision on the
   request for exemption was moot. On appeal, the Ohio Reclamation
   Commission ordered Ohio to make a decision on this exemption request.
   Ohio decided that the mining company had made substantial legal and
   financial commitments in property within the petition area prior to
   January 4, 1977, and is, therefore, exempt from the lands unsuitable
   designation. This decision has been appealed, with a hearing scheduled
   later in 2000.

   Riviera Bowling Lanes Decision
   The Ohio Seventh District Court of Appeals affirmed a lower court
   ruling ordering Ohio to purchase the Riviera Bowling Lanes. The Ohio
   Supreme Court decided not to hear Ohio's appeal. Ohio is considering
   asking the Supreme Court to reconsider the case. This case is based on
   the plaintiff's claim that Ohio caused the closure of the Riviera
   Bowling Lanes from 1985 to the present due to mine gas contamination.
   The City of Bellaire issued an order for the owners to repair or
   demolish the building in 1985. Due to the forced closure and lapse of
   time, the Courts ruled that the plaintiffs have been denied any
   economic use of the property. The Courts ruled that Ohio caused closure
   of the building by not correcting the condition caused by an abandoned
   mine. Although there are conflicting facts about the site conditions
   and whether a closure order was issued, the Court sided with the
   plaintiffs and ordered Ohio to purchase the property. Also at conflict
   is the value of the property. This issue will be decided through an
   appropriation hearing. The plaintiffs claim, based on an appraisal, the
   value of the property was $1,805,000 before the property was vacated.
   In addition, the plaintiffs seek $2,034,168 in interest, $125,000 in
   attorney's fees, and $1,925,000 in lost profits. Aside from the
   potential monetary impact on Ohio's AML program, the extent of
   responsibility for the government to correct problems associated with
   AML comes into question as a result of this decision.

   Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative (ACSI)
   Ohio continues to actively participate in this initiative. Ohio
   continues to support and encourage local watershed groups who want to
   partner with various government agencies, industry, and others who have
   an interest in abating acid mine drainage (AMD). This year's activities
   are reported by watershed as follows:
   Monday Creek The Monday Creek Restoration Project continues to be
   Ohio's most active and well-organized watershed group involved in AMD
   abatement. The Majestic Subsidence project, involving sealing a stream
   subsidence into an underground mine, was completed in the December of
   1999. Some additional rip rapping of the reclaimed channel will also be
   done in the coming year. The group received an AMD&ART grant from OSM
   for a passive treatment project at the Murray City ballfield. The group
   also has partnered with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) on a
   long-term feasibility study of the watershed.

   However, in spite of the progress made, the group has encountered a
   major difficulty. One of the primary partners in the group is the U.S.
   Forest Service (USFS), which owns about 38 percent of the entire
   watershed, and closer to 70 percent in the areas with AMD problems. The
   USFS determined that because AMD contains sulfuric acid it is, by
   definition, a hazardous waste. As such, it is subject to the
   Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act
   (CERCLA), which requires the U.S. government to seek out Principle
   Responsible Parties (PRP's) prior to proceeding with a project. This
   has delayed the Rock Run 24 Cooperative Agreement project that was
   approved by OSM last year. The project design was completed in May, but
   the PRP search has still not been finalized. Until this is done, the
   project cannot proceed. Hopefully, the USFS will reverse its policy of
   applying CERCLA to AMD projects. However, until it does there may be
   many more delays in the future.

   Sunday Creek Sunday Creek is similar in size to Monday Creek and is
   adjacent to Monday Creek along the southeast side of the Monday Creek
   basin. Sunday Creek also has severe impacts due to AMD. The Sunday
   Creek Watershed Group is a new group that is progressing at a rapid
   pace. They have applied for and received an Ohio EPA 319 two-year
   planning grant. The group has also begun monitoring in the watershed in
   order to draft an acid-mine drainage treatment and abatement plan
   (AMDAT) and receive hydrologic unit approval from OSM.

   Raccoon Creek The Raccoon Creek Improvement Committee (RCIC) also
   continues to be active in the AMD abatement area. Last year the Natural
   Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) completed a design for the State
   Route 124 Strip Pit project, a 10-acre pit and spoil area contributing
   AMD to Raccoon Creek. Construction started on October 12, 1999 and was
   completed this year. Another nearby project, the State Route 124 Seep
   project, has also been designed, bid, and contracted. Construction of
   this project will eliminate 3 to 4 percent of the acid loading to
   Little Raccoon Creek. Construction should begin this October. The group
   also received OSM approval for the Little Raccoon Creek hydrologic unit
   under the AMD Set -Aside program. Work on the headwaters AMDAT is
   proceeding well. In all likelihood, it should be Ohio's next approved
   hydrologic unit for AMD Set-Aside funding. RCIC has continued to
   increase public awareness of the AMD problem through activities such as
   watershed tours and voluntary tree planting on mine sites.

   Huff Run The Huff Run Watershed Restoration Partnership (HRWRP) is
   working with the Crossroads Resource Conservation and Development
   Council (RC&D) of the NRCS. They received an Ohio EPA 319 grant to fund
   several projects in partnership with the group and Ohio. Several of
   these projects have been identified in the hydrologic unit
   characterization that was approved by OSM this year. OSM is also
   helping Ohio design one of the projects. The Southside Tipple Project
   was bid and constructed this year. It will have a passive treatment
   system installed using 319 funding. The projects that were proposed
   last year in cooperation with a local mining company are also nearing
   final negotiations. HRWRP once again hosted a student intern provided
   by OSM this year.
   Moxahala Creek Ohio University's characterization of this watershed,
   with its focus on the Black Fork tributary, continued this year. They
   are monitoring an existing wetland treatment system and analyzing it
   for potential improvements. They are also studying a burning gob pile
   to determine the best reclamation approach. The Moxahala Watershed
   Restoration Committee received a grant from Rivernet to write an action
   plan. They have completed the preliminary action plan.

   Wills Creek Crossroads RC&D continues to be involved with organizing
   activities for this watershed. They are working with Ohio and the U.S.
   Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) on AMD abatement strategies in and
   around the Wills Creek Reservoir. Ohio has partnered with the ACOE for
   an AMD abatement project using ACSI funds. The design of this project
   is complete, and construction should occur with the next year. Ohio
   also plans to do corrective work on the passive wetland treatment
   system at the former Wills Creek Tipple project.

   Kimble Creek The interagency group formed to abate AMD has not decided
   on an abatement approach. The USFS has hired a consultant to conduct
   further studies to determine abatement strategies.

   Captina Creek The Captina Creek project was completed in the spring of
   2000, but required additional work to improve project effectiveness.
   The initial project work involved construction of a polishing pond and
   the installation of limestone ditches. Because some iron was escaping
   from the final discharge due to lack of settling time, Ohio cleaned out
   the two primary ponds to increase retention times. This extra work,
   completed in September of 2000, appears to be successful at this time.

   Yellow Creek The Yellow Creek Watershed Restoration Committee meets
   regularly, and has begun to assess the water quality in their
   watershed. The group was aided in this endeavor by an OSM summer
   intern, who also worked with the Huff Run group. Ohio and the ACOE have
   entered into a cost-sharing agreement to abate a significant AMD
   problem on the North Fork of Yellow Creek near the Village of
   Hammondsville. This discharge also adversely affects the main stem of
   Yellow Creek. The preliminary restoration plan has been completed, and
   the project study plan has begun. OSM is also assisting the Ohio
   Division of Wildlife in determining an abatement approach for an AMD
   discharge in the Brush Creek tributary.

   Leading Creek Improvement Committee This is a multi-agency committee
   formed to implement the Leading Creek Improvement Plan which was
   drafted as a mitigative measure for a 1993 acid water discharge by
   Southern Ohio Coal Company. In addition to the plan, an
   interest-bearing fund was established using a $1.9 million settlement.
   This fund will finance improvement projects in target areas identified
   in the plan. There are several tributaries with AML sedimentation and
   AMD problems in the Leading Creek basin. The committee met twice during
   the evaluation period.
   Seasonal Variations

   In 1997, in conjunction with industry representatives and OSM, Ohio
   created a workgroup to examine and develop recommendations regarding
   standards for submission and analysis of seasonal hydrologic
   information. This workgroup reviewed existing Ohio practices regarding
   hydrologic seasonal variations as they apply to obtaining a surface
   coal mine permit.

   The workgroup developed several proposed sampling schemes to establish
   variations based on historic water information. Input from OSM's
   Appalachian Regional Coordinating Center helped the group refine the
   proposal and draft a new method for collecting pre-mining water
   information.

   The workgroup prepared its draft report in 1999, with fifteen
   recommendations for modifying the procedures for collecting samples to
   describe seasonal variation. The recommendations address procedures for
   sampling on regular permits, as well as permits requesting modified
   effluent limits on remining sites. The primary recommendations from the
   workgroup are to:
     * identify periods of high, intermediate, and low flow;
     * require a sample from each period to describe the seasonal
       variation; and
     * identify procedures to allow data from substitute sampling points
       for missing data.

   The workgroup completed its final report in November 1999. They
   prepared a draft Policy Procedures Directive (PPD) implementing the
   recommendations from the final report. Ohio expects to release the
   draft PPD in late 2000 with implementation in mid-2001.

   Proposed Experimental Practice

   Ohio and OSM are currently reviewing a proposed experimental practice
   submitted by Peabody Coal Company. The experimental practice proposes
   an exception to Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) 1501:13-9-09 and Federal
   rules at 30 CFR 817.84. These rules say that structures constructed of
   or impounding coal waste cannot retain the ability to impound water as
   part of the approved post-mining land use. The proposal would allow a
   structure that is impounding coal slurry to remain as a permanent water
   impoundment in support of a fish and wildlife land use in lieu of
   removal of the structure. Although the impoundment contains coal
   slurry, it was not filled with coal slurry as initially planned.
   Therefore, the structure primarily impounds water that inundates the
   coal slurry. Ohio and OSM are currently considering the proposal to
   determine if it is a viable experimental practice that meets all of the
   requirements of OAC 1501:13-4-12(B) and 30 CFR 785.13.

   Public Roads

   Ohio developed written guidelines for staff and industry when
   considering whether a public road must be permitted as a surface coal
   mining operation. The guidelines help implement changes in law adopted
   by Ohio in 1995. The change was based upon a U.S. District Court for
   the District of Columbia decision that Federal rules cannot exempt all
   public roads used for coal mining purposes from the requirement to
   obtain a mining permit. The determination of whether the road must be
   permitted must be based upon use of the road. Ohio's guidelines provide
   guidance on making the usage determination.

   Natural Stream Reconstruction Design

   Ohio organized a team comprised of representatives from the coal mining
   industry, Division of Soil and Water Conservation, Division of Mineral
   Resources Management, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to
   develop an alternative to stream channel designs traditionally used by
   the mining industry. The team recognized the need to develop stream
   restoration designs that would help mitigate the temporary impacts to
   stream channels caused by mining. The team developed a functional
   design procedure for the reconstruction of small headwater streams
   based on natural channel design techniques. When impacts to a natural
   waterway are unavoidable, the natural stream channel design process
   provides more ecologically healthy alternatives that are intended to
   improve the stream's potential to support aquatic life. The team plans
   to monitor the success of these design techniques and make
   modifications to the designs where appropriate.

   Wildlife Provisions of the Ohio Program

   Last year OSM conducted a follow-up review of a 1995 OSM study on
   wildlife enhancement. The 1995 study showed that Ohio mining permits
   were not describing wildlife resources, or providing an explanation of
   why certain enhancements were not used, as required by Ohio's rules.
   Ohio has taken several actions to improve awareness of wildlife
   provisions and concerns. Ohio implemented a new land use form that
   provides landowners a statement-of-interest checklist for various
   wildlife enhancements. This will help determine which enhancements are
   practical, and may help in getting more enhancements implemented in the
   field. Ohio developed written guidelines for staff and industry
   regarding permitting and mitigation of non-jurisdictional wetlands.
   Members of Ohio's permitting staff were trained in Stream Quality
   Monitoring Techniques and High Quality Wetlands. Ohio has fully
   implemented into the permitting process, its stream buffer zone policy
   that was issued in late 1998. The policy addresses environmental
   resources of streams and stream restoration, including riparian
   vegetation. Implementation of this policy combined with the natural
   stream reconstruction design program should enhance wildlife in and
   around streams.

   Reforestation Initiative

   Ohio worked with Waterloo Coal Company to develop changes to its
   resoiling plan to better promote tree growth and survival. These
   changes were in response to the landowner's (Mead Paper Company)
   concern that reclaimed land is too compacted and does not support tree
   growth necessary to support the intended post-mining land use on their
   properties. Under its revised plan, the mining company placed a three
   to four foot mixture of A, B, and C soil horizons on graded areas. This
   mixture was placed with end-dump trucks and only lightly graded to
   minimize soil compaction. Approximately five acres were planted with
   trees and a less competitive herbaceous cover in the spring of 2000.
   This technique has been used successfully in Virginia. Waterloo Coal
   Company is the first operator in Ohio to try using it. Ohio, Waterloo,
   and Mead will monitor the success of this soil handling practice with
   the hope that tree growth and survival will meet or exceed that on
   undisturbed areas. [image008.gif]

   Another noteworthy event regarding the reforestation initiative was a
   ceremony commemorating American Electric Power's (AEP) planting of its
   15 millionth tree as part of its Climate Challenge Tree Planting
   Program. Ohio and OSM representatives attended this ceremony which led
   to a follow up meeting with AEP representatives. The purpose of the
   meeting and site tour was to develop new ways that OSM and States may
   partner with companies such as AEP to encourage other utilities and
   private industries to plant trees on AML areas. Ohio has already
   partnered with AEP for tree planting on a few AML areas. Ohio also
   showcased its successful Pt tree inoculation program that provides
   acid-tolerant tree seedlings for reforestation of highly acid mine
   spoil conditions. The overall objective is to increase reforestation on
   AML areas at little or no cost to the government and for the private
   entity to receive credit under the Department of Energy's carbon
   sequestration program. OSM has signed a memorandum of understanding
   with the Department of Energy to help further this concept.
   Blasting Near Interstate Highway

   OSM raised a concern about a mining permit issued by Ohio that included
   blasting within 200 feet, above grade, and for several thousand feet
   along a major interstate highway during the life of the permit. OSM
   questioned whether the blasting plan provided adequate safeguards to
   protect motorists traveling on the highway during blasting operations.
   Ohio promptly acknowledged OSM's concerns by working with the
   permittee, their blasting consultant, an OSM blasting expert, and the
   Ohio Highway Patrol to incorporate improvements and safeguards into the
   blasting plan. Ohio decided that the measures that were added to the
   blasting plan provided adequate safeguards so that traffic flow would
   not have to be stopped for each blast unless under specific
   circumstances as determined by the certified blaster and certified mine
   foreman.

   Landslides

   In the EY 96 evaluation period, OSM evaluated the effectiveness of
   landslide repair on Ohio permits. Ohio reviewed the study report and
   agreed with the finding and recommendation. The report recommended that
   Ohio establish guidelines for landslide stabilization and repair. Ohio
   distributed the guidelines in February 2000. These guidelines,
   developed with input from OSM, address the findings and recommendations
   contained in the OSM EY96 evaluation.

   B. Program Issues
   Inspection Management

   OSM renewed its concern raised in 1996 and 1997 about Ohio's management
   of its inspection program. OSM identified a significantly declining
   trend in the number of inspections that Ohio was conducting compared to
   the number that were required. OSM formally notified Ohio of this
   concern in October 1999, and asked for Ohio's perspective and their
   plans to correct the trend. A team of Ohio's managers evaluated the
   concerns identified by OSM. One result of the review was the
   reassignment of some management responsibilities to provide closer
   attention to the inspection program through scheduling, routine
   reporting, and monitoring of inspection activities. A priority was
   assigned to enhancing the data system used for tracking inspections.
   Reporting capabilities of the data system were improved to provide
   timely electronic management reports to the field team managers. The
   system improvements provided a more user-friendly system and raised the
   confidence level of the users. An inspector vacancy was filled. Ohio
   reiterated to staff their responsibility to take necessary action to
   require operators to achieve bond release as contemporaneously as
   practicable. Ohio also took advantage of the program provisions related
   to required inspections on abandoned sites and designated several bond
   forfeiture sites as abandoned.

   Ohio has provided the improved quarterly management reports to OSM
   since October 1999. These reports indicate improvement in the number of
   sites that are receiving the required number of inspections. The report
   format is significantly improved and now can be used as a management
   tool. Ohio reports an overall average of sites receiving the required
   number of inspections as: 89 percent in the fourth quarter 1999; 91
   percent in the first quarter 2000, 94 percent in the second quarter
   2000, and 94 percent in the third quarter 2000. One of the two
   districts has reported 98 percent for three out of four quarters. The
   other district is continuing to increase the number of inspections
   conducted.

   OSM will continue to review the quarterly management reports as well as
   conduct some independent review of the number of inspections conducted.

   Data Management

   Ohio has directed significant effort to developing, updating, and
   maintaining data management systems. They have developed systems for
   permitting, bonding, inspections, contract management, hydrology, and
   other areas. Ohio continues to experience difficulties with full and
   effective implementation of some of the systems. These difficulties
   span many aspects of their regulatory and AML programs and impact
   Ohio's management of several program areas. Ohio is continuously
   working on development, revision, and correction of these systems to
   improve reporting capability. Better reporting capability can help Ohio
   manage daily and long-range workloads and provide reliable information
   to reflect program activities and results.

   OSM acknowledges Ohio's efforts to improve data systems and will
   continue to encourage Ohio's use of data systems to improve
   productivity, efficiency, and to better identify program
   accomplishments. The reorganization of DMRM to include the former Oil
   and Gas Division increased the staff of the data management staff. OSM
   is hopeful that the increased staff will improve many of the existing
   systems by providing resources to deal with implementation problems.

   AMD Prevention

   As a regional objective, OSM began a process to establish long-term
   treatment costs for AMD problems from post-1977 mine sites in EY 1999.
   As part of that process, a regional AMD inventory was established that
   included active and bond forfeited sites with actual and potential
   long-term treatment liabilities. A preliminary inventory developed by
   OSM and Ohio contained potential AMD-producing sites, including sites
   that are being actively mined and treating AMD, and those that are
   reclaimed but have a remaining AMD discharge.

   This year OSM continued to verify conditions on the sites on the
   preliminary inventory through site inspections. Water samples and flow
   measurements were taken to better characterize the extent of the AMD
   problem. Twenty-one sites were classified as having probable long-term
   AMD problems. The 21 sites have been added to OSM's Regional AMD
   inventory. Of the 21 sites, 13 are associated with coal refuse
   disposal, five involve abandoned underground mine drainage, and three
   are caused by toxic materials in surface mines. Thirty-six other sites
   had indications that AMD production could potentially become a problem
   in the future.

   [d-0219 upstream on sr324 pic01.gif] During the upcoming evaluation
   year, OSM will continue to evaluate these sites in addition to any new
   sites found during normal routine oversight inspections. Ohio has not
   totally endorsed the list of sites. However, OSM will continue to work
   with Ohio to refine the site inventory and develop strategies for
   abating and/or treating sources of AMD on these sites.






   Program Amendment 75

   In 1998, OSM approved proposed revisions to the Ohio Revised Code
   concerning award of attorney fees. This issue has been a long-standing
   legal issue with the Ohio Program. OSM expected that Ohio would have a
   sponsor to introduce this revision, along with other statutory changes,
   to the Ohio Legislature during 2000. The proposed revisions have not
   been introduced. Ohio is considering attaching this revision to some
   other statutory changes being considered by the Department of Natural
   Resources.

   Program Amendment 76

   In 1997, OSM notified Ohio of Federal rule changes that have occurred
   over the past several years. The provisions affecting Ohio include:
   permitting and performance standards on siltation structures and
   impoundments; variances from approximate original contour; prime
   farmland; and affirmation by the applicant that reclamation
   requirements are met when applying for bond release. Ohio submitted a
   program amendment to address these provisions in late 1997. OSM
   approved the amendment in late 1998. Ohio promulgated some of the rules
   approved under the amendment in 1999, but has not yet adopted the rules
   concerning siltation structures, impoundments, and bond release
   affirmation. Ohio did contact the industry group that opposed
   promulgation of the rules and is attempting to work out a solution
   following OSM's inquiry asking for Ohio to provide its plan and
   schedule for promulgation.

   V. Success in Achieving the Purposes of SMCRA as Measured by the Number
   of Observed Off-Site Impacts and the Number of Acres Meeting the
   Performance Standards at the Time of Bond Release

   To further the concept of reporting end results, OSM is collecting the
   findings from performance standard evaluations for a national
   perspective in terms of the number and extent of observed off-site
   impacts and the number of mined and reclaimed acres that meet the bond
   release requirements for the various phases of reclamation. Individual
   topic reports that provide additional details on how OSM conducted the
   following evaluations and measurements are available in the Columbus
   OSM Office.

   A. Off-Site Impacts

   During the EY 2000 evaluation period, OSM collected information on the
   number, type, and severity of off-site impacts resulting from mining
   operations. OSM used this information as a measure of how well the Ohio
   mining program protects the environment and the public residing in
   areas adjacent to mining operations. The goal of this measurement is
   for States and OSM to reduce the occurrence of off-site impacts. OSM
   identified off-site impacts by reviewing Ohio enforcement actions
   resulting from all of Ohio's inspections; by reviewing citizen
   complaints received by Ohio and OSM; and by conducting oversight
   inspections that focused on identification and evaluation of impacts
   that occurred outside the areas authorized for mining and reclamation
   activities.

   OSM considered both Ohio's inspections on 463 inspectable units and
   OSM's oversight inspections as data sources for identifying 43 off-site
   impacts during the evaluation period. Approximately 90 percent of the
   mine sites in Ohio had no identified off-site impacts based on the
   sources of data identified above. OSM classified three of the 43
   impacts as major, nine moderate, and 31 minor using the guidance
   provided in OSM Directive REG-8.
     * The three major impacts were related to well water and wetland loss
       and degradation.
     * Twenty-three of the impacts affected surface water resources, with
       acid water discharges the most prevalent.
     * Eight of the 43 impacts were encroachments of mining activities
       onto areas outside of the approved permit area.
     * The remaining incidents were related to miscellaneous disturbances
       such as sedimentation.

   Table 4 provides a distribution of the types of impacts and the
   affected resources.

   The off-site impact data shows that the majority of impacts are
   water-related. Ohio and OSM have focused on hydrology issues and will
   continue to pursue improvements to the Ohio program to reduce the
   number of water-related off-site impacts. This initiative continues to
   be directed through the efforts of the AMD Prevention Team and Ohio's
   efforts to improve their investigation of water complaints.

   B. Bond Release/Reclamation Success

   OSM reviewed Ohio's approval of bond releases as one measure of success
   in administering the SMCRA program. Between July 1, 1999, and June 30,
   2000, OSM conducted on-site inspections on 60 reclamation segments on
   which Ohio had approved bond release. In addition, OSM collected
   information about contemporaneous reclamation, remining, land use, and
   hydrology on most oversight inspections. Table 5 in the Appendix
   tabulates information on bond releases processed by Ohio during the
   review period.

   OSM oversight found that Ohio's evaluation of industry's compliance
   with the on-the-ground performance standards for bond release is
   effective. However, OSM inspections identified five individual
   reclamation segments on two permits that did not meet bond release or
   performance standards even though Ohio approved bond release on each of
   these segments. Following OSM's identification of the problems, Ohio
   required the permittee to correct them. The problems identified were
   improper filling of a small stream and wetland, erosion, and not
   meeting the required revegetation requirements.

   Although OSM oversight inspections did not identify any sites where
   material damage to the hydrologic balance could be demonstrated, Ohio
   and OSM need to continue to improve the process used for determining
   whether mining operations have minimized impacts to the hydrologic
   balance prior to final approval of bond release. Ohio has developed a
   hydrology database. However, as reported last year, Ohio has not yet
   fully implemented the system to aid their evaluation of hydrologic
   impacts at mine sites. Ohio is continuing to develop guidelines and
   procedures that will improve their hydrologic assessment of sites at
   bond release.

   Overall, OSM oversight data collected at reclaimed mine sites shows
   that on-the-ground reclamation m [d-790-2.JPG] eets or exceeds
   performance standards in nearly all cases. Mined land is restored to
   productive use, with over 90 percent of the mined land restored to
   pasture/grazing land. Hay production generally exceeds the county
   average. About 77 percent of the permitted land is approved for a
   different post-mining land use than existed before mining. The vast
   majority (81 percent) of the premining land use is designated as
   undeveloped. About 4 percent is returned to an undeveloped land use
   with 91 percent restored to a pasture/grazing land use. Less than 2
   percent is returned to forest or fish and wildlife habitat.

   OSM also evaluated Ohio's implementation of contemporaneous reclamation
   provisions as a measure of how timely mined land is returned to the
   landowner for implementing a post-mining land use, one of the purposes
   of SMCRA. The time frames are based upon the time between an area being
   designated for reclamation by the permittee and the time the permittee
   requested bond release on that area for the bond releases Ohio approved
   between July 1, 1999, and June 30, 2000. Information on contemporaneous
   reclamation showed a wide range of reclamation/bond release time frames
   on 365 bond releases containing 16,056 acres approved by Ohio. The
   average time frames have improved from the previous year.
     * Time frames for completion of Phase I reclamation averaged 1.2
       years on the 73 Phase I bond releases approved by Ohio. This
       average improved from 1.9 years during the last review period.
     * Time frames for completion of Phase II reclamation averaged 3.8
       years on the 113 Phase II bond releases approved by Ohio. This
       average also improved from 3.9 years last year.
     * Time frames for completion of Phase III reclamation averaged 6.5
       years on the 179 Phase III bond releases approved by Ohio. This
       average remained the same as last year.

   During the past four years, Ohio has been working to reduce the number
   of sites where mining has been completed for more than two years and
   the site has not achieved a Phase II bond release. Ohio reduced the
   number of permits in this condition by over 60 percent between August
   of 1996 and August of 1999. In August 1999, 45 permits existed that had
   not yet achieved a Phase II bond release, although mining had been
   completed for more than two years. As of August 2000, there are 35
   permits meeting this criteria. Ohio has also directed efforts on
   achieving Phase III bond release on sites where mining has been
   complete for more than six years.

   VI. OSM ASSISTANCE

   During the evaluation period, OSM provided assistance to Ohio on
   different initiatives. The purpose of this assistance was to help Ohio
   more efficiently implement their program. Both OSM and Ohio found that
   working together cooperatively on teams to resolve problems has been
   positive and successful. Listed below are brief descriptions of the
   specific areas where OSM assisted Ohio this year.

   ARP Permitting Team

   In EY 96, Ohio implemented changes to the ARP (Application to Revise a
   Permit) process after a team was assigned to the process . The ARP team
   included representatives from Ohio, OSM, and industry. The purpose of
   the ARP team was to improve the processing time of ARP's while ensuring
   completeness, regulatory compliance, and tracking of individual ARP's.
   One of the major changes to the revision process was to move the
   processing and tracking of revisions from the central office to the
   field regional offices.

   In EY98, Ohio re-evaluated the ARP process and determined that the
   revised process was no longer effective and practical for the current
   organization of the agency. Therefore, Ohio is shifting the
   responsibility of this process back to the central office. This change
   should be finalized early in EY01.

   Remining Initiative

   OSM continued as a member of Ohio's Remining Committee. The committee
   has an active representative on a national remining committee that is
   working with EPA concerning water quality issues related to remining.
   Ohio provided extensive comments on U.S. EPA's proposed water quality
   standards for remining sites.

   OSM inspections on 67 permits this year found that remining resulted in
   or is proposed to result in elimination of about 85 miles of abandoned
   highwalls, reclamation of about 2500 acres of unreclaimed mine spoil,
   and elimination of about 50 underground mine openings or entries.

   Technical Assistance to Ohio

   OSM helped Ohio investigate the cause of two landslides. One site was
   in Belmont County and the second site was in Harrison County. OSM
   reviewed inclinometer data that Ohio collected and provided an opinion
   on the cause of the ground movement. Ohio considered OSM's input in
   making a final determination on the eligibility of each project for AML
   funding.

   As a result of Ohio's request for assistance, Ohio, the Department of
   Transportation, and OSM jointly developed a training course on using
   inclinometers including: theory of operation, installation, reading,
   and interpretation of data. This course will be presented in November
   2000.

   The objective of this training is to provide standard guidelines on
   operation and interpretation of inclinometers.

   VII. General Oversight Topic Reviews

   OSM Oversight Inspections

   OSM conducted 83 inspections for general compliance monitoring of coal
   mine operations during the evaluation period to assess compliance with
   performance standards; 40 inspections to evaluate bond releases
   approved by Ohio; 44 inspections to verify sites with potential for
   AMD; and 28 other mine site visits associated with special studies or
   for other reasons. Most of these inspections included an evaluation for
   possible off-site impacts. In addition, OSM conducted 37 inspections to
   monitor AML reclamation project construction and eight inspections to
   evaluate potential AML emergencies or to monitor AML emergency project
   construction.

   [image014.gif]

   [2000o0{image4}.gif] OSM conducts general compliance monitoring
   oversight inspections to learn how well Ohio is implementing its
   program by reviewing the on-the-ground impacts of mining operations.
   Other inspections are directed at very specific program areas such as
   bond releases or special oversight studies. Of the total 195 regulatory
   inspections conducted by OSM on 163 different mine sites during this
   evaluation period, 73 percent of the sites were in compliance with the
   standards reviewed by OSM and 27 percent were in noncompliance with one
   or more standards. In all instances, Ohio either had taken or took
   appropriate enforcement or other action to address the noncompliance.

   OSM inspections identified some difficult issues related to
   contemporaneous reclamation, removal of structures and equipment, and
   hydrologic impacts. OSM has worked closely with Ohio to encourage them
   to direct mining companies toward timely and complete reclamation of a
   few mines that have not operated for several years. Hydrology issues
   regarding AMD and impacts to water supplies continue to be the cause of
   most off-site impacts. OSM inspections also identified improper bond
   releases on two sites. One issue related to stability of a backfilled
   area that was identified in 1998 continues unresolved, partially due to
   an appeal filed by the coal company. The issues identified on OSM
   inspections have led Ohio to development of remediation strategies
   directed toward compliance.

   Citizen inquiries or complaints to OSM identified some instances of
   misunderstanding or lack of communication between citizens, the mine
   operator, and Ohio. In these situations, OSM either formally
   transmitted the complaint to Ohio or determined through meeting with
   the citizen that their concern was not a violation. During the meeting
   or through follow-up review of the situation, OSM was able to provide
   the citizen with a better understanding of the situation and why the
   coal company was or was not responsible.

   The results of OSM inspections related to OSM special studies
   concerning bond release, contemporaneous reclamation, and off-site
   impacts are further discussed under separate topics elsewhere in this
   report.

   Longwall Mining

   OSM completed its review of the effects of longwall mining. The draft
   report is in the public review and comment period. Information about
   the overall impacts of longwall mining in Ohio was not readily
   available. Therefore, OSM's purpose of the initiative was to obtain a
   better overall understanding of the short and long-term impacts that
   longwall mining has on water supplies, land, and structures; how the
   mining industry and Ohio implement the program requirements and
   mitigate the impacts of longwall mining; and how effectively Ohio and
   the mining industry interact with those affected by longwall mining.
   OSM interviewed Ohio inspectors and managers, mining company officials,
   and landowners. OSM conducted field visits on areas impacted by
   longwall mining.

   Once public comments are reviewed, OSM will meet with Ohio to discuss
   the report and document any action Ohio plans in response to OSM's
   recommendations in the final report. OSM expects to issue the final
   report early in EY 2001.

   Response to Blasting Complaints

   As identified in the 1999 Evaluation Report, OSM initiated a review
   that evaluated the effectiveness and timeliness of Ohio's process for
   investigating blasting complaints, including the use of pre-blast
   surveys to evaluate alleged blasting damages. OSM reviewed 35 blasting
   complaints received by Ohio during the evaluation period and the
   response to each complaint. OSM also accompanied Ohio's Blasting
   Specialist during investigation of two blasting complaints to determine
   how he considers the pre-blast survey in his evaluation of alleged
   damage. OSM completed the review during the 2000 evaluation period.

   The review found that Ohio's investigations of blasting complaints are
   timely and thorough, and their findings are well documented. Ohio's
   responses to the complainants are timely, with periodic updates
   occurring if there is a delay in the investigation. Pre-blast surveys
   are an effective tool to document the pre-existing conditions of the
   dwellings. Ohio effectively uses them to determine if blasting is
   causing any additional damage. Of the 27 residences that were eligible
   to receive a pre-blast survey, only 12 requested one. OSM suggested
   that this might be an area where Ohio could improve their outreach
   program to ensure that more landowners are aware of the usefulness and
   the purpose of pre-blast surveys.

   Coal Waste Disposal

   Disposal of coal-processing waste occurs on approximately 10 percent of
   the permits in Ohio. The permitting requirement to receive approval for
   coal-processing waste disposal relies primarily on isolating the refuse
   material to prevent contact with water. This method minimizes impacts
   to the water regime. In addition to isolation, Ohio permits the mixing
   of coal processing wastes with materials with high calcium carbonate.
   The high calcium material reacts with and neutralizes the acidic
   properties of the coal-processing waste material to cause no net
   discharge of acidic water. These two techniques offer the viable
   technologies for disposing of coal-processing waste material.

   This study, begun in 1999, is designed to assess the effectiveness of
   permitting requirements for the implementation of approved plans and
   monitoring the environmental impacts of the disposal of coal-processing
   waste at surface coal mining operations. Specifically, this study is
   collecting data to answer the following questions:
     * Are impacts to the hydrologic regime minimized on permits with
       approved coal-processing waste disposal plans?
     * How effectively are the industry and DMR monitoring plans for
       assessing impacts to the hydrologic regime from coal-processing
       waste disposal areas?
     * Do permits allowing coal-processing waste disposal comply with the
       laws, rules, and policy authorizing these activities?
     * Are specific methods of coal-processing waste disposal more
       effective at minimizing impacts to the hydrologic regime?

   During this evaluation period, OSM completed the data collection
   portion of the study and is now developing the final report. The data
   collection consisted of conducting interviews with DMRM's permitting
   staff, hydrologists, and engineers to determine the permitting
   requirements and how those requirements are assessed during the permit
   approval process. Interviews were also conducted with the inspection
   staff to obtain input on implementation issues associated with various
   coal waste disposal methods.

   In addition, OSM conducted 23 field reviews on permits approved for
   refuse disposal. Approximately one-third of the field reviews examined
   post-reclamation impacts of refuse disposal. An additional one-fifth of
   the field reviews were on sites with active disposal activities. OSM
   cannot currently make any recommendations to Ohio for any changes to
   the current procedures for permitting or implementing refuse disposal
   plans, but the final report will include recommendations on both of
   these areas.

   AML Construction Program

   OSM reviewed Ohio's non-emergency AML construction processes for
   productivity and timeliness as compared to the previous year. OSM did
   this by maintaining a project database and performing routine AML
   oversight inspections. The results of these oversight activities are as
   follows:
     * National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Compliance - Ohio
       submitted all necessary NEPA documentation in a timely manner prior
       to the initiation of construction activities. There have been
       several instances where projects were bid prior to receiving the
       Authorization to Proceed (ATP). However, Ohio's AML Construction
       Manager has made sure that no construction occurs prior to
       receiving the ATP. OSM is working with Ohio so that NEPA
       documentation occurs earlier in the process to ensure that no
       construction occurs prior to the ATP and that there is ample time
       to consider alternatives. OSM authorized 19 projects during the
       review period as having met the requirements of NEPA. Site
       inspections on AML projects verified the site conditions and
       mitigation procedures that were listed in Ohio's NEPA
       documentation.
     * Design Productivity and Timeliness - Over the last ten years, Ohio
       has averaged 25 design completions per year, with a range of 45 to
       14. Ohio completed 19 designs during this evaluation period, as
       opposed to 20 completed during the previous year. The majority of
       the designs were done by private consulting firms. Design
       completions continue to be a significant limiting factor on the
       productivity of Ohio's AML program.
     * Construction Contracting - The average amount contracted over the
       last ten years by Ohio is $2.7 million per year, with a range of
       $5.8 million to $1.1 million. Ohio authorized 20 construction
       contracts at an amount of $1.4 million during this evaluation
       period, compared to 24 projects at an amount of $2.3 million during
       last year's period. While the amount of contract activity is
       roughly the same for both periods, the timeliness of issuing
       contracts greatly improved during this evaluation period. For 1998,
       it took an average of 106 days from the bid opening to contract
       authorization. In 1999, this average improved to 74 days. This
       year, the average improved to 48 days, which is within the 60-day
       period allowed by Ohio's contracting law. Contracts exceeding the
       60-day period may be renegotiated unless extensions are mutually
       agreed to. Of the 20 projects authorized this year, only four
       exceeded the 60-day period. We commend Ohio for this significant
       improvement.
     * Construction Completions - Over the last ten years, Ohio has
       averaged 27 project completions annually, with a range of 38 to 21
       projects. There were 24 projects substantially completed during
       this review period compared to 23 projects the previous period.
       There were no significant delays due to contractor negligence or
       non-performance, nor were there any significant delays due to cost
       overruns or design changes.

   In an effort to better understand Ohio's AML processes and to identify
   areas for improvement, OSM worked with Ohio to develop a flowchart of
   the AML program as the processes currently exist. OSM and Ohio
   identified and agreed on critical dates within these processes. OSM
   then conducted file reviews on completed projects, finding long delays
   between receiving complaints and beginning construction projects. Even
   though there are instances where reasons for this long time period are
   justified, such as potential remining or a change in landowners, many
   of these long periods lack a suitable explanation. Ohio and OSM agreed
   to a pilot oversight study where OSM would assist with a project's
   planning and design, using Ohio's procedures, in order to better
   understand the process involved. A relatively simple project was
   chosen. Initial meetings and site reviews are finished, and OSM is now
   in the process of developing the plans and specifications.

   Permit Findings

   In March of 1999, the U.S. District Court, Southern District of West
   Virginia issued a decision in Bragg v. Robertson (Civil Action No.
   2L98-0636). In that decision, the judge was critical of the lack of
   documentation supporting West Virginia's written findings to support
   its decision to issue a permit. OSM's Director asked each field office
   to discuss the implications of this decision with the States.

   OSM conducted an oversight study in Ohio that focused on the following
   questions related to the findings necessary to approve permit
   applications, renewals, and transfers in Ohio:
     * How does Ohio document that permit applications, permit renewals,
       and permit transfers meet all of the requirements of Ohio
       Administrative Code (OAC) 1501:13-5-01(E)?
     * How does Ohio document its review and decision on areas of the
       permit application that are not specifically listed under the
       required findings of OAC 1501:13-5-01(E)?
     * Are Ohio's findings reasonably supported by technical and/or other
       information or reference to such information? Is the information in
       the administrative file?

   OSM's review found that Ohio completes written findings for most
   required permitting actions. Ohio's permit files generally include
   extensive checklists, notes, technical reviews, and revision letters
   and responses that support decisions to approve permit applications.
   Ohio's written findings for all permitting actions should provide
   better written descriptions, references, and documentation to support
   its permitting decisions. Based upon this review, Ohio has already
   initiated revisions to its process and their templates to improve their
   written findings. OSM expects to complete the final report on this
   study in early EY 2001.

   OSM Stream Impact Study

   OSM compiled a report from data supplied by the Ohio EPA and the
   Central Ohio Coal Company on stream impacts resulting from a large area
   mine. OSM became aware that the Ohio EPA was doing long-term monitoring
   in two tributary streams that were almost completely affected by
   post-SMCRA mining. This presented a unique opportunity to look at the
   long-term effects downstream from a mining operation over a 12-year
   period. The Ohio EPA data consisted of water chemistry, fish, and
   macro-invertebrate sampling. Habitat assessments were also done. This
   was combined with water chemistry and mining data from the coal
   company. The data showed that the fish communities in both streams
   improved over the 12-year period. The macro-invertebrate communities
   remained constant, and hardness and sulfates increased slightly in the
   downstream areas. The latter effect on water chemistry was predicted in
   the cumulative hydrologic impact assessments (CHIA) in the mining
   permits. The water chemistry impacts noted do not have any adverse
   effects on any present land uses in the area. Overall, it is remarkable
   that the stream biology actually improved while the mining and
   reclamation of the watershed was occurring.

   OSM Part 732 Notices to Ohio

   Ohio has one program condition remaining at 30 CFR 935.11 from OSM's
   1982 approval of the Ohio permanent regulatory program. Ohio must
   demonstrate that its Alternative Bonding System (ABS) will ensure
   timely reclamation at the sites of all operations for which bond has
   been forfeited. OSM also issued a Part 732 letter to Ohio on this issue
   on October 1, 1991. The letter notified Ohio that it must revise the
   Ohio program to ensure that the ABS will have sufficient funds to
   complete the reclamation plans for any areas in default at any time. An
   actuarial analysis of Ohio's ABS as of December 31, 1992, found that
   Ohio's ABS is solvent if certain assumptions are fulfilled. In February
   1994, Ohio reported that its ABS continues to have a $1.5 million
   deficit. On June 30, 1995, Ohio and OSM updated an Improvement and
   Monitoring Plan for the Ohio ABS. As reported in the 1998 annual
   report, Ohio has implemented several changes to resolve this program
   condition. However, questions about responsibility and bond adequacy
   for treating acid-mine drainage in the event of forfeiture has become a
   national issue. Ohio developed a proposal to submit to OSM to address
   the 732 issue and remove the program condition. However, OSM suggested
   that Ohio defer submitting their information pending further
   developments on the national issues related to bonding and AMD. OSM and
   Ohio will continue to work to resolve this issue including aspects of
   acid mine drainage treatment that may have an impact on Ohio's program.

   In 1997, OSM notified Ohio of Federal rule changes that have occurred
   over the past several years. The provisions affecting Ohio include:
   permitting and performance standards on siltation structures and
   impoundments; variances from approximate original contour; prime
   farmland; and affirmation by the applicant that reclamation
   requirements are met when applying for bond release. Ohio submitted a
   program amendment to address these provisions in late 1997. OSM
   approved the amendment in late 1998. Ohio has not yet promulgated some
   of the rules approved under the amendment concerning siltation
   structures, impoundments, and bond release affirmation.

   OSM notified Ohio on August 22, 2000, of recent changes to Federal
   regulations pertaining to valid existing rights. OSM asked that Ohio
   respond to this notice within 60 days by providing proposed amendments
   or a description of amendments to be proposed and a timetable for
   enactment. Ohio is preparing its response to this notice.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 APPENDIX A

                                   TABLE 1

                              COAL PRODUCTION

                   (Millions of short tons)
                   Period
                          Surface
                          mines
                                     Underground
                                     mines
                                                Total
                   Coal production^A for entire State:

                   Annual Period

                   1998   13,183,436 15,605,135 28,788,571
                    1999  12,403,243 12,980,985 25,384,228
                    2000  10,348,110 11,575,380 21,923,490
                          35,934,789 40,161,500 76,096,289

   ^A Coal production as reported in this table is the gross tonnage which
   includes coal that is sold, used or transferred as reported to OSM by
   each mining company on form OSM-1 line 8(a). Gross tonnage does not
   provide for a moisture reduction. OSM verifies tonnage reported through
   routine auditing of mining companies. This production may vary from
   that reported by States or other sources due to varying methods of
   determining and reporting coal production.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                   TABLE 2

                              INSPECTABLE UNITS
                          As of September 30, 2000
                                 Coal mines
                                 and related
                   facilities Number and status of permits
                                Insp. Unit^D
                             Permitted acreage^A
                             (hundreds of acres)
                       Active or temporarily inactive
                                  Inactive
                                  Abandoned
                                   Totals
                            Phase II bond release
                     IP PP IP PP IP PP IP PP IP PP Total
             STATE and PRIVATE LANDS REGULATORY AUTHORITY: STATE
                                Surface mines
                   241   119 6 38 6 398 404 .25 1077 1077
                              Underground mines
                          14   4   0 18 18   44 44
                              Other facilities
                         28   7 1 5 1 40 41   37 37
              Subtotals 0 283 0 130 7 43 7 456 463 0 1158 1158
                  FEDERAL LANDS REGULATORY AUTHORITY: STATE
                                Surface mines
                           2       1 0 3     3.6 4
                              Underground mines
                                 0 0       0
                              Other facilities
                                 0 0       0
                      Subtotals 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 0 4 4
                                ALL LANDS ^B
           Surface mines 0 241 0 119 6 38 6 398 404 0 1,077 1,077
               Underground mines 0 14 0 4 0 0 0 18 18 0 44 44
