http://www.ny.nrcs.usda.gov/earthteam/et_homepage.htm


   Earthteam button        USDA Logo



   WE NEED YOUR HELP  in reducing soil erosion, conserving our water and
   improving its quality, and developing pride in our country's natural
   resource heritage. Your commitment to the Earth Team will help ensure
   that generations to come will enjoy America's bounty.

   The Earth Team, the volunteer arm of the USDA Natural Resources
   Conservation Service (NRCS), is now recruiting volunteers in more than
   3,000 locations across the country. Make a difference in your community
   -- become an Earth Team Volunteer.

   Anyone 14 years of age or older and interested in conserving our
   precious natural resources can join the Earth Team. You can work
   part-time or full-time, evenings or weekends, outdoors or in an local
   NRCS office. You can volunteer as an individual or as a group!

   Where Volunteers Can Help?

   On the Land - with professional conservationists who are working
   directly with farmers and ranchers.

   In schools - with elementary and high schools, college and university
   students. Through camps and classes, you can introduce young people to
   the wonders of nature.

   With organizations -- youth groups, professional societies, or civic
   groups. All types of organizations are joining together to sponsor
   water quality education campaigns, community beautification, and
   erosion control projects. Cooperative Earth Team efforts can help solve
   many natural resource problems in your area.

   In offices - where NRCS or your conservation district may want to use
   your talents for clerical assistance, organizing information in a
   computer, preparing newsletters, or educating others about natural
   resource conservation.

   Kinds of Jobs Our Volunteers Do?

   As an Earth Team Volunteer, you'll work with professionals on
   conservation activities in your community Whatever your talents or
   interests, there is a volunteer opportunity for you. Technical
   assistance is needed to plan, lay out, and design conservation
   practices; to make natural resource inventories; and to improve
   wildlife habitat. Schools and community groups benefit from the
   conservation tours and exhibits that volunteers can organize. Taking
   photographs writing articles, speaking to community groups and
   producing artwork and publications are some of the opportunities
   available. Office support services include opportunities in computer
   data entry, typing, filing, computer programming, and conservation
   information. There are opportunities for everyone.

                    Earthteam button     Click Image for E-mail list
   directly to your local office

                   Earthteam button    Click Image for Placement Summary
   to print and mail

                   Earthteam button    Click Image to see National Earth
   Team Page

                   Earthteam button    Click Image to see current
   volunteers
