http://rs6.loc.gov/ammem/copyrit2.html

                    ---------- American Memory ----------

             American Memory, Copyright, and Other Restrictions

   The Library is offering broad public access to American Memory
   collections as a contribution to education and scholarship. Some
   materials in these collections may be protected by the U.S. Copyright
   Law (Title 17, U.S.C.) and/or by the copyright or neighboring-rights
   laws of other nations. More information about U.S. Copyright is
   provided by the Copyright Office. Additionally, the reproduction of
   some materials may be restricted by terms of Library of Congress gift
   or purchase agreements, donor restrictions, privacy and publicity
   rights, licensing and trademarks.

   Transmission or reproduction of protected items beyond that allowed by
   fair use requires the written permission of the copyright owners.

   The nature of historical archival collections means that copyright or
   other information about restrictions may be difficult or even
   impossible to determine. Whenever possible, the Library provides
   information about copyright owners and other restrictions in the
   catalog records, finding aids, special-program illustration captions,
   and other texts that accompany collections. The Library provides such
   information as a service to aid patrons in determining the appropriate
   use of an item, but that determination ultimately rests with the
   patron.

   As a publicly supported institution the Library generally does not own
   rights to material in its collections. Therefore, it does not charge
   permission fees for use of such material and cannot give or deny
   permission to publish or otherwise distribute material in its
   collections. It is the patron's obligation to determine and satisfy
   copyright or other use restrictions when publishing or otherwise
   distributing materials found in the Library's collections.

   The Library of Congress is eager to hear from any copyright owners who
   are not properly identified so that appropriate information may be
   provided in the future.

   [amcfrule.gif] Return to the American Memory Home Page

   am 9-18-98
