http://www.cslb.ca.gov/services/guides.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                           CSLB Home
                           Consumers
                           Applicants
                           Contractors
                           Laws & Regulations
                           Services & Publications
                           News & Events
                           What's New at CSLB!
                           About CSLB



                         Contact CSLB
                             Call 1-800-321-CSLB
                             or e-mail our licensing
                             or our technical staff.



          Contractors State License Board



                                             __________ search
                                            ( )  My CA    (*)  CSLB

          Guides & Pamphlets


                     Building Official Information Guide

    A Q&A for building officials about license classifications and filing
    complaints.

                              "Contractor" Kit

   Our free "Contractor Kit" is full of helpful information for all
   contractors, including the following publications: "Blueprint for
   Becoming a California Licensed Contractor", "Home Improvement
   Contracts: Putting the Pieces Together", "What You Should Know Before
   You Hire A Contractor", "Advertising Do's and Don'ts", "A Guide to
   Contractor License Bonds", "Home Improvement Certification Fact Sheet",
   Maintaining Your License" and a "Description of Classifications".

            What Seniors Should Know Before You Hire a Contractor

         Provides information for Seniors on hiring and dealing with
         contractors.

              What You Should Know Before You Hire a Contractor

        Provides information on hiring and dealing with contractors.

         Lo que Usted Debe Saber Antes de Contratar a Un Contratista

   Spanish version of "What You Should Know Before You Hire a Contractor."
   Provides information on hiring and dealing with contractors.

             After A Disaster Don't Get Nailed By A Scam Artist

                Tips on protecting yourself after a disaster.

                        A Consumer Guide to Asbestos

             What Consumers need to know about asbestos removal.

             A Consumer Guide to Filing Construction Complaints

     Describes how to file complaints against contractors with the CSLB.

       Guía del Consumidor para Presentar Quejas Relacionadas con la
                                Construcción

   Spanish version of "A Consumer Guide to Filing Construction
   Complaints." Describes how to file complaints against contractors with
   the CSLB.

                        Flex Your Power - Energy Tips

    A consumer guide to hiring licensed energy conservation contractors.

                     Mandatory Arbitration Program Guide

    Describes the mandatory arbitration program provided by the CSLB for
    complaints about damages of $5,000 or less.

                     Voluntary Arbitration Program Guide

    Describes the voluntary arbitration program provided by the CSLB for
    complaints about damages between $5,000 and $50,000.

                      "Get Information to Build On" Kit

   The kit contains the publication "What You Should Know Before You Hire
   A Contractor" and the "Home Improvement Contracts Booklet" as well as
   other helpful information.

                               Aftershock Kit

   The kit contains the publication "What You Should Know Before You Hire
   A Contractor," a disaster recovery brochure, and "A Consumer Guide to
   Filing Construction Complaints."

                           Senior Scam Stopper Kit

   The kit contains the publication "What You Should Know Before You Hire
   A Contractor," a "Job File", a "Construction Complaint" form and a "10
   Tips" sheet.

              Asbestos, A Contractor's Guide and Open Book Exam

           Blueprint for becoming a California Licensed Contractor

        Answers commonly asked questions on how to become a licensed
        contractor.

                Building Your Career as a Licensed Contractor

                The Top 10 Questions on Contractor Licensing.

                  Advertising Do's & Don'ts for Contractors

               Tips and guidelines for contractor advertising.

              Home Improvement Certification Reference Booklet

      Refer to this booklet while taking the open book Home Improvement
      Certification Examination.

           Home Improvement Contracts/Putting the Pieces Together

        Detailed information for homeowners and contractors about the
        requirements of home improvement contracts.

                     A Guide to Contractor License Bonds

                       Description of Classifications

               A pamphlet describing all CSLB classifications.

                 License Law & Reference Book - 2001 Edition

       The California Contractors License Law and Reference Book (2001
       Edition) is available for the purchase price of $17.70 from the
     Department of General Services, Office of Procurement, Publication
                                  Section.
                               Counter Sales:
   1700 National Drive
       Sacramento, CA 95834
       (916) 928-4630

    Mail Order - Please send check or money order (no cash) with request
                                     to:
   General Services, Office of Procurement
       P. O. Box 1015
       North Highlands, CA 95660

     Make checks payable to Procurement-Publications. The price includes
     tax, postage and handling. Please include a street address and the
       recipient's name. All orders are shipped via UPS and cannot be
                       delivered to a post office box.

    The California Contractors License Law and Reference Book is NOT sold
     at any office of the Board. Copies may be available from specialty
          bookstores. Please check your local telephone directory.

   Back to Top of Page
   © 2001 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
