http://www.paed.uscourts.gov/us21000.shtml


   The Historical Society

   CAPTION: THE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
   THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

   The Historical Society of the United States District Court for the
   Eastern District of Pennsylvania was created as a non-profit
   organization designed to heighten public awareness of the court's
   history and to inform the interested public of the court's function,
   role, and past contributions to American history. The Society was
   formally incorporated on April 12, 1984, in commemoration of the 194th
   anniversary of the Court's earliest recorded attorney admission
   ceremony held on April 12, 1790 in the State House of Philadelphia -
   now known as Independence Hall - where the court originally sat. One of
   the original 13 districts created by the Judiciary Act of 1789, the
   District of Pennsylvania was divided into two districts in 1815,
   designated Eastern and Western, and a Middle District was established
   in 1901. The present-day jurisdiction of the Eastern District extends
   to the history-rich counties of Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware,
   Lancaster, Lehigh, Montgomery, and Northampton, as well as
   Philadelphia.

   CAPTION: THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF OUR MEMBERS ARE MANY AND VARIED

   Toward the goal of better acquainting the public with the court's role
   in American history, several special committees of the Society have
   been formed to research court documents and records; to publish
   articles and books and present educational exhibits on court history to
   the public; and to acquire, preserve, and maintain all artifacts of
   historical significance to the court, including documents, records,
   photographs, portraits, and other historical objects and memorabilia.
   The Society also publishes a newsletter, A Court's Heritage,
   distributed periodically to members in order to keep them better
   informed of Society projects and events.
   Members of the Society have contributed greatly to the work of the
   Society's 22 special committees. The Society's Portrait Committee,
   chaired by Patrick W. Kittredge, has dedicated numerous portraits to
   the court of notable judges, most recently of Judges Joseph L. McGlynn,
   Jr. and Donald W. VanArtsdalen. Additionally, members of the Society's
   Calendar Committee, chaired by the Honorable J. William Ditter, Jr.,
   have produced and distributed the Society's annual calendars featuring
   thematic, fine pen-and-ink sketches of various places and events
   associated with court history and noting daily calendar anniversaries
   of important court decisions.
   In December of 1987, the First Annual Alfred L. Luongo Lecture, created
   to honor the memory of Chief Judge Luongo who helped found the Court's
   Historical Society, was delivered by Professor A. Leo Levin of the
   University of Pennsylvania. Judge Luongo was instrumental in
   establishing the Society's many commitees and in encouraging the
   Society's various research projects. The Alfred L. Luongo Lectureship
   has since been offered annually to distinguished individuals who have
   made significant contributions to American legal history and judicial
   adminstration, both areas of vital concern to Judge Luongo, especially
   as they relate to our Court.
   To complete an Application for Membership form for the Historical
   Society, please click here.

   [qs_bmbr.gif]
