http://www.azb.uscourts.gov/azb/Documents.nsf/7c87516342012c5a88256a1c0000a6b6/6f6378f8cfe88d0b88256a1c0000c145/$FILE/ECFUpdate.PDF

   CM/ECF UPDATE  2002 CASES The following is an update on Electronic Case
   Filing in the District of Arizona including plans for expansion to the
   Yuma and Tucson offices. 1. All new bankruptcy cases filed in the
   Phoenix office (this includes Prescott cases) starting January 2, 2002,
   will be placed on the Electronic Case Filing (ECF) system. Starting
   January 14, 2002, Phoenix office ECF cases will be accessible by
   attorneys and the public only from the ECF system by the use of a PACER
   login and id. The 2002 Phoenix office cases will not be accessible by
   attorneys, trustees or the public either through the old dial up
   access, BRASS, or through WebPACER. The same PACER login and id that
   has been used to access BRASS or WebPACER will work in ECF. No new
   PACER login or id is needed to access ECF cases. Also, if you are
   currently exempt from paying PACER fees, your exemption will carry over
   to the ECF cases. However, you will be required to use the PACER login
   and id, you just will not receive a bill for your ECF access if you are
   already exempt. 2. Chapter 11 Cases. All chapter 11 cases on ECF will
   continue to be fully electronic in that paper filings made by attorneys
   or pro se parties will continue to be scanned and docketed by the
   clerk's office. Chapter 11 claims will be docketed as set forth below
   in the claims information. 3. Chapter 7, 12 and 13 cases. All 2002
   Chapter 7, 12 and 13 cases filed in the Phoenix office will be on the
   ECF system. These cases and 2001 and earlier Chapter 7and 13 ECF cases,
   will not be fully electronic starting January 2, 2002. While all
   filings in these cases will be docketed on ECF, the documents filed on
   paper will not be available electronically. Paper filings by attorneys,
   not yet on ECF, and by pro se parties will be docketed on ECF without
   being scanned so the paper document will not be accessible on the ECF
   docket. The paper filings will only be in the case file. Attorneys who
   have live ECF filing passwords will be able to file all documents,
   including claims, themselves electronically in all 2002 cases in the
   Phoenix office, including even pro se debtor cases. All court generated
   documents, including orders, court notices, and discharges will be
   filed electronically in all 2002 cases and will be accessible from the
   ECF docket. 4. Claims. Claims in ECF cases, all 2002 cases and 2001 and
   earlier ECF cases will be processed as follows: Chapter 7 Cases
   designated No Asset. Any claims filed on paper are placed in the case
   file. Chapter 7 Cases designated Asset. Claims filed on paper will be
   placed in the case file after the deputy clerk updates the mailing list
   on ECF. Chapter 11 Cases. Unless the debtor has been ordered to
   maintain the mailing list, claims filed on paper will be placed in the
   file after the deputy clerk updates the mailing list on ECF. Claims
   will not be docketed on ECF until plan confirmation and then on written
   request by the attorney for the debtor. Alternatively, debtors'
   attorneys may check out the claims file(s) and prepare their own claims
   register at anytime. Chapter 13 Cases. Claims filed on paper will be
   placed in the case file after the deputy clerk updates the mailing list
   on ECF. If the case is not dismissed or converted, 15 days prior to the
   claims bar date, the claims will be docketed on ECF (only secured and
   priority claims will be scanned, unsecured claims will be docketed, but
   not scanned.) Electronically filed claims. An attorney with an ECF
   password may file claims electronically on any 2000 or 2001 ECF case
   (In 99 and earlier ECF cases, the claims must still be filed on paper
   for now.) See the ECF Filing Claims Instructions located on the court's
   website at www.azb.uscourts.gov for detailed guidance on how to file a
   proof of claim. Also, starting in 2002, a limited use/claims password
   will be issued to creditors which will allow them to file their own
   claims electronically. 5. Adversary Proceedings. At this time, a
   complaint commencing an adversary proceeding still cannot be filed
   electronically by the attorney. Adversary complaints must still be
   filed on paper. The complaint should also be submitted in pdf format on
   a disk. Any required filing fee should be paid at the time the
   complaint is filed. 6. Petitions. At this time, the bankruptcy petition
   and mailing list must still be filed on paper. Attorneys should be able
   to start filing the petition and commence a new case about the middle
   of 2002. If the mailing list contains 100 or more names and addresses,
   you are required to also submit the mailing list on a disk in ASCii
   format. 7. Tucson and Yuma offices. At this time, our plan is to file
   all new cases in the Phoenix office on ECF starting January 2, 2002,
   but not to convert pending Phoenix office cases to ECF until after the
   Yuma and Tucson offices are fully converted to ECF. We expect in 2002
   to first convert all open cases to the ECF system in the Yuma office
   and then convert the Tucson office and then come back to Phoenix to
   convert the pending non ECF cases to ECF. There is a program to convert
   case dockets on the old system to ECF. But all that is converted is the
   case data and the docket entries. No electronic documents exist in the
   cases on the old system to convert to ECF. So the converted cases will
   only have docket entries on ECF at the time of conversion. But, once
   all the pending cases are converted to ECF, attorneys who are on ECF
   will be able to do all their filing in any case electronically. 8.
   Since, at first, all paper filings are not going to be scanned by the
   clerk's office, when we are able to increase the amount of scanning we
   can do and start scanning paper filings in Chapter 7, 12 or 13 cases,
   we would like to know what paper filings debtor attorneys, creditor
   attorneys and trustees think should have first priority in scanning. A
   survey is being developed to ascertain your input in this area and will
   be sent out to all ECF users in the near future. 9. Version One of
   CM/ECF. On January 14, 2002, we will be switching our ECF filings site
   to our local server and at the same time switching to the new Version
   One of the ECF software. There are a few changes that affect the
   attorney and trustee users. You can familiarize your self with these
   changes at the test site, using your test filing password starting
   January 3, 2002, when the test site is converted to the Version One
   software. We will also be conducting a training session at the clerk's
   office, in the 8th floor training room, on Tuesday, January 8, 2002,
   from 2:00 to 4:00 PM. This is an open session and you, and staff, are
   welcome to come during this time period. The changes you will notice
   and affect your filing are: A. The process and screens for searching
   for a party and adding that party to a case or entering a new party
   have changed. B. When filing a document, the first screen you will see
   after entering the case number is the pick list of the types of filings
   in that category. C. Updated Mailing List for an ECF case. Starting
   January 14, 2002, when you need an updated mailing list for noticing in
   an ECF case, you must obtain that list by selecting Reports and then
   selecting Creditor Mailing Matrix. The mailing list may be created in
   single column or a raw data format which can then be copied over to any
   software you may have that can create a two or three column format to
   print mailing labels. The creditor list under the Query option will no
   longer exist. D. Displays. In most every type of filing made on ECF,
   there will now be a screen during the filing process that displays
   additional instructions and information for the type of filing being
   made. Please read these messages and follow any instructions contained
   therein regarding submitting copies, orders or obtaining a hearing date
   or any other instructions. E. Review your E-mail Notification set-up.
   Starting January 14, 2002, you will not be able to request both summary
   e-mail notification and individual notices of each filing. If you have
   both selected and do not make a change, you will receive only a summary
   notification. G. New Query Options. The following new options have been
   added to the list of Query options when a query is made for a
   particular case number. 1. Deadlines/Hearings. Selecting this option
   will display all deadlines for the case, including the 341 meeting date
   and time, any claims bar date and the last date to file Section 523/727
   complaints plus any other deadlines or hearings input as part of the
   filing of a document. 2. Related Transactions. This option is similar
   to the BRASS/PACER related history search. To receive a list of all
   related filings to a particular filing, input the document number in
   both document boxes and check both the pending and terminated boxes to
   receive a list of all filings related to that document. 3.
   History/Documents. This option will produce a shorter summary of the
   docket.
