http://www.orleanscdc.gov/notarc.htm

   CDC Index:

   CDC Home

   City Court

   Civil Sheriff

   Clerk of Court

   Conveyance Ofc

   Courts & Sources

   Court Crier

   Duty Judge

   Evictions

   Filing

   Filing Fees

   Floor Plan

   Forms

   General Info

   Holidays

   Judges

   Jury Info

   Legal Interest

   Map

   Mortgage Ofc

   Notarial Archives

   Remote Access

   Who to Contact

   Search Site

                                  CDC logo

                              NOTARIAL ARCHIVES
                   Orleans Parish - New Orleans, Louisiana

            Hon. William L. Pratt, Custodian of Notarial Archives

                    Main Reading Room and Filing Office:
                       Room B-4 Civil Courts Building
                              421 Loyola Avenue
                        New Orleans, Louisiana 70112
                            Phone: (504) 568-8577
                             Fax: (504) 568-8599
        Visit our website: http://www.notarialarchives.org/links.htm

                                 [line9.gif]

                                    Hours

                    Office hours: 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                            Monday through Friday

             Extended courtesy hours in Main Reading Room only:
                           7:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
                            Monday through Friday

                                 [line9.gif]

                                Filing Office

     Louisiana R.S. 35:323-329 (as amended in 1997) requires that the
     original of every authentic act passed before a notary public in
     Orleans Parish and every act or instrument (with certain exceptions)
     filed for record in the Offices of the Register of Conveyances or
     the Recorder of Mortgages in Orleans Parish shall first be filed in
     the office of the Custodian of Notarial Records for the Parish of
     Orleans. The act provides that the Custodian shall charge ten
     dollars for each act filed and twenty dollars for each survey.

                            Return to Top of Page

                                 [line9.gif]

                           About Notarial Archives

     The New Orleans Notarial Archives holds some forty million pages of
     signed acts compiled by the notaries of New Orleans, Louisiana over
     three centuries. They reside in the only archive dedicated to notarial
     records in the United States. Founded in 1867 when it gathered the
     records of colonial and antebellum notaries, the Archives relates     Site
                                                                           Plan

     closely to those European and Western Hemisphere repositories that
     share Louisiana's heritage of civil law. The world's civil law
     notarial collections derive from a Roman law-based system that
     elevates the notary to a prominent place in society as the
     draftsman, guarantor, and finally, archivist of contracts in the
     private sector. In New Orleans, nearly every property transaction
     that has occurred since the founding of the city was recorded by, or
     found its way to, a notary's office.

     Most of the local notary's business dealt with sales or mortgages of
     immovables in the city and surrounding parishes. Notaries also
     received Wills, marriage contracts, building contracts, powers of
     attorney, and individual declarations. They conducted estate
     inventories, family meetings, and meetings of creditors. They
     recorded acts of partnership, corporate charters, marine bonds, and
     marine or ship captains' protests. Slave sales and emancipations
     from prior to the Civil War are another important act type. These
     records provide names, ages, and skills, indicate color or
     ethnicity, and may provide lineage useful for the study of
     African-American history.

     In addition to text-based documents, the Archives holds thousands of
     "Plan Book Drawings" created during the 19th century by civil
     engineers, surveyors and architects. This collection includes
     topographical elevations, construction documents and site plans of
     property located throughout New Orleans, the State of Louisiana and
     in surrounding states. The signed and dated drawings depict both
     property lines and buildings, and were usually created to advertise
     judicially-ordered auction sales held to comply with the rules of
     civil procedure.

                            Return to Top of Page

                                 [line9.gif]

                          Archives Research center

   Building Elevation Sally K. Reeves, Archivist
   1340 Poydras Street
   Suite 360
   New Orleans, LA 70112
   (504) 680-9604
   Fax: (504) 680-9607

     Antiquities of the Notarial Archives collection may be found in the
     Research center now relocated to 1340 Poydras Street, Suite 360, in
     dowtown New Orleans, just steps from the main office. French Period
     acts in the collection (1731 to 1768) amount to some 2,000 pages.
     Spanish Period acts and Court Proceedings (1768 to 1803) amount to
     some 225,000 pages. Early American, ante-bellum and post-Civil War
     documents (French and English) consist of nearly 6,000 volumes of
     notarial acts, each containing about 1,000 legal size pages.

     Plans and surveys may be found either attached to notarial acts or
     in the Plan Book collection, housed today in flat files. Plans may
     be ink and water color on paper, ink on cloth, blueprint, blueline,
     or inkplot on Mylar or modern vellum. Many "attached" plans are
     design drawings attached to building contracts. These drawings may
     be signed by trained architects or may be the simple sketches of
     builders working in vernacular styles.

                            Return to Top of Page

                                 [line9.gif]

                              The Dreyfous Room

     The Abel, Felix Jonathan, and George Dreyfous Reading Room
     sequesters the acts of civic leader and notary Felix Dreyfous (acts
     1888 - 1946) and of his son, George (acts 1921 - 1954). Dreyfous
     Reading Room staff will provide research assistance with 20th and
     future 21st century records to students, scholars, and the general
     public. For the acts of Abel Dreyfous and other earlier records,
     refer to the Archives Research center.

                           Architechtural Drawing

                                 [line9.gif]

                            Return to Top of Page


    Copyright © 1997-2002 Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans
    http://www.orleanscdc.gov
