http://www.nsf.gov/od/lpa/news/press/01/pr0174.htm

      NSF News

      News - September 25, 2001


   NSF PR 01-74
   Media contact:    Tom Garritano  (703) 292-8070  tgarrita@nsf.gov
   Program contact:  Gary Strong    (703) 292-8930  gstrong@nsf.gov

NSF Announces $156 Million in Awards for Information Technology Research

A broad range of computer research is slated to ensure U.S. leadership

   The National Science Foundation (NSF) today announced 309 awards
   designed to preserve Americas position as the world leader of computer
   science and its applications. The projects will receive more than $156
   million from NSFs Information Technology Research (ITR) priority area,
   which spurs fundamental research and innovative uses of IT in science
   and engineering.

   Selected from over 2,000 competitive proposals, the newly funded
   activities include eight large projects that will each total between
   $5.5 million and $13.75 million over five years. Another 113 mid-sized
   projects will each total $1 million to $5 million for three to five
   years, and 188 smaller projects will receive up to $500,000 each for up
   to three years.

   "NSF is proud to be a leader with these bold ITR projects," said NSF
   director Rita Colwell in a presentation today to the Presidents
   Information Technology Advisory Committee meeting, where she announced
   the awards. "Through long-term, high-risk research, we expect a wide
   range of positive results that will benefit the nation as a whole. Our
   objective is to support the development of software and IT services
   that will help scientists and engineers make the kind of discoveries
   that will eventually be applied by industry."

   The program's main goals are to augment the nation's IT knowledge base
   and strengthen the IT workforce. Major subject areas include Systems
   Design and Implementation (including human-computer interfaces), People
   and Social Groups Interacting with IT (including economic and workforce
   implications), Information Management (including content/data analysis
   and informatics), Applications in Science and Engineering (including
   simulations and advanced computation) and Scalable Information
   Infrastructure (includes security, "tetherfree" computing and
   "teleimmersion").
   3D graphical reconstruction of surgery, caption is below
   3D graphical reconstruction of surgery, caption is below
   In an ITR project led by Brown University and the University of North
   Carolina-Chapel Hill (NSF award number 0121657), "tele-immersion"
   technology will be developed to train surgeons. Trainees will be able
   to move naturally within a life-sized, high-fidelity, 3D graphical
   reconstruction of the surgery, pausing or stepping forward and backward
   in time to assist in learning.
   Image credit: Andrei State, UNC Chapel Hill
   A larger version of the image is here.

   For example, an ITR project at the University of California-Berkeley
   will develop "societal scale" information systems, aimed at solving
   complex problems related to energy, disaster response and education.
   The University of Kansas will deploy radar sensors at polar regions to
   collect and analyze real-time data about interactions between ice
   sheets, oceans and the atmosphere, helping to determine why sea levels
   have been rising for the past century.

   Computer scientists and other researchers at Carnegie Mellon, Rice and
   Old Dominion universities will develop software for on-line simulations
   to constantly assimilate data from physical processes related to
   aerodynamics, energy, environment, geophysics, medicine and many other
   applications. These tools could yield far more accurate predictions
   than are possible with current technology.

   Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation is a non-profit
   organization that maintains over 116,000 hours of digitized video
   interviews with survivors and witnesses of the Holocaust. An ITR award
   will lead to speech-recognition software for cataloging this multimedia
   content, whose multilingual aspect poses special research challenges.
   New cross-language search capabilities will have broad implications for
   "metadata" -- defined as "data about data."

   Clarkson University in New York will apply advanced IT for solid-state
   physics research, including the education of young scientists who will
   help develop ultra-fast quantum computers that use atomic-level
   processes to replace silicon chips. Oregon State University will lead
   an effort to assimilate massive amounts of data about oceans and the
   atmosphere. The team -- which includes computer scientists,
   oceanographers and civil engineers from six universities, a national
   laboratory and private industry -- will develop modular software to aid
   forecasting of weather, oceanic events, groundwater and geophysics.

   "IT has already transformed our daily lives, yet its most significant
   impact so far may be in science and engineering," said Gary Strong, NSF
   program director for ITR. "These new NSF projects show that information
   technology is enabling new types of fundamental research not previously
   feasible, by helping to gather and make sense of a data avalanche that
   will solve countless mysteries about the world around us. Basic IT
   research is essential to progress in physical science, medicine,
   earthquake modeling, environmental studies and virtually every other
   field of study, as well."

   NSF has also just kicked off its third annual ITR competition. The
   foundation's ITR budget request for fiscal 2002 is $217 million of
   additional funding, although the actual appropriation is yet to be
   determined by Congress.

                                    -NSF-

   For a searchable database of FY 2001 ITR awards, see:
   http://www.itr.nsf.gov/

   NSF is an independent federal agency that supports fundamental research
   and education across all fields of science and engineering, with an
   annual budget of about $4.5 billion. NSF funds reach all 50 states,
   through grants to about 1,800 universities and institutions nationwide.
   Each year, NSF receives about 30,000 competitive requests for funding,
   and makes about 10,000 new funding awards.

   Receive official NSF news electronically through the e-mail delivery
   system, NSFnews. To subscribe, send an e-mail message to
   listmanager@nsf.gov. In the body of the message, type "subscribe
   nsfnews" and then type your name. (Ex.: "subscribe nsfnews John Smith")


   Top of Document

                         Back to previous level page

                                   search

                                  site map

                                     NSF

                                    OLPA

                                  Questions

                           Forward to next section
