http://www.osti.gov/subjectportals/

   Subject-Specific Information Tools

   Subject Portals
   color bar Subject Portals
   Security/Disclaimer Notice
   Photovoltaics
   Geothermal Energy
   Hydrogen Energy
   Superconductivity
   Heavy Vehicle Technology
   Wind Energy
   Biopower
   Environmental Management
   Biofuels

   The Department of Energy, Office of Scientific and Technical
   Information (OSTI) in partnership with DOE Program Offices, announces
   new tools for information access, Subject Portals. These versatile
   subject-specific Web sites provide full-text DOE scientific and
   technical reports, links to journal literature, and other information
   sources pertaining to the following subjects: Photovoltaics, Geothermal
   Energy, Hydrogen Energy, Superconductivity, Heavy Vehicle Technology,
   Wind Energy, Biopower, Environmental Management, Biofuels,
   Concentrating Solar Power, and Fuel Cells Technology. All Subject
   Portals include a distributed searching feature, which provides
   parallel searching across a select set of heterogeneous databases. In
   addition, each portal is customized to meet the needs of the sponsoring
   organization.
   Concentrating Solar Power
   Fuel Cells Technology
   If you have questions or comments, please contact the Subject Portals
   Webmaster at subjectportals@osti.gov.
   border border

   Department of Energy
   Get Acrobat® Reader™ to view .pdf files
   Office of Scientific and Technical Information

   Updated biweekly, the Photovoltaic Energy (PHV) subject portal provides
   information pertaining to photovoltaic energy, solar power, solar
   cells, and other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Geothermal Energy (GET) subject portal provides
   information pertaining to the technologies required for economic
   recovery of geothermal energy and its use as direct heat or for
   electric power production, and other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Hydrogen Energy Research (HYD) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to hydrogen production, storage, and
   utilization technologies, and other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Superconductivity for Electric Energy Systems
   (SUP) subject portal provides information pertaining to electric power
   applications of superconductor technology, high Tc-conductors, and
   other related subjects

   Updated biweekly, the Heavy Vehicle Technologies (HVT) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to technologies that will enable trucks
   and other vehicles to be more efficient, and other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Wind Energy Technology (WET) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to the processes by which the wind is
   used to generate mechanical power or electricity, and other related
   subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Biopower Energy Research (BMP) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to the entire cycle – growing and
   harvesting the resource, converting and delivering electricity, and
   other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Environmental Management Research (EMT) subject
   portal provides information pertaining to environmental management. The
   database includes reports published since 1989.

   Updated biweekly, the Biofuels Energy Systems (BMF) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to alcohols, ethers, esters, and other
   chemicals made from cellulosic biomass, and other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Concentrating Solar Power (CSP) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to the effort to develop clean,
   competitive, and reliable power options using concentrated sunlight,
   and other related subjects.

   Updated biweekly, the Fuel Cells Technology (FLC) subject portal
   provides information pertaining to converting fuels to electricity and
   heat using the process of electrochemical conversion instead of
   traditional combustion technologies. There are five major families of
   fuel cells, Alkaline (AFC), Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM), Phosphoric
   Acid (PAFC), Molten Carbonate (MCFC), and Solid Oxide (SOFC).
