http://turners.nichd.nih.gov/GeneticText2.html


   Genetic Features of Turner Syndrome
   Turner syndrome is a disorder caused by the loss of genetic material
   from one of the sex chromosomes.

   Humans normally have a total of 46 chromosomes (which are tiny,
   DNA-containing elements) that are present in every cell of the body.
   DNA encodes genes, which specify all the proteins that make up the body
   and control its functions.

   In humans, there are 23 matched pairs of chromosomes in every cell.
   Each cell contains 22 pairs of chromosomes called autosomes that are
   the same in males and females. The remaining pair of chromosomes, the
   X- and Y-chromosomes, are not shaped similarly, and thus are not
   matched in the same way as the autosomes.

   The X- and Y-chromosomes are called sex chromosomes. They are
   responsible for the difference in development between males and
   females. A Y-chromosome contains genes responsible for testis
   development; and the presence of a X-chromosome paired with a
   Y-chromosome will determine male development. On the other hand, two
   X-chromosomes are required for normal ovarian development in females.


    X-CHROMOSOME MONOSOMY

   During the process in which oocytes (eggs) or sperm are formed, one of
   the sex chromosomes is sometimes "lost" (see diagram A). An embryo
   receiving only a Y-chromosome can not survive, but an embryo receiving
   only a X-chromosome may survive and develop as a female with Turner
   syndrome.

   In order to examine the matching pairs of chromosomes for a person,
   doctors can perform a blood test and look at the chromosomes found in
   the lymphocytes, a particular type of blood cell. This will determine
   the karyotype of that individual.

   The karyotype of X-monosomy is termed, "45X" meaning that an individual
   has 44 autosomes and a single X-chromosome. The usual female karyotype
   is 46, XX.


    X-CHROMOSOME MOSAICISM

   A sex chromosome may also be lost during early stages of embryonic
   development, such that some cells of the growing body receive a single
   X chromosome (see diagram B). This condition is called mosaicism, and
   the clinical features of Turner syndrome correlate with the relative
   percentage of 45X cells within the body.

   If only a small percentage of cells have been affected, the phenotypes
   of Turner syndrome may be relatively mild. In other words, mosaicism
   may lessen the severity of certain clinical features. An example of the
   lessened effects due to mosaicism is if a woman with Turner syndrome
   experiences regular menstrual cycles until her late 20's rather than
   not having any menstrual cycle at all (see Puberty/Reproduction
   section, Clinical Features).

   The genetic diagnosis in such cases may require the examination of
   many, many blood cells, and/or the examination of other cell types such
   as skin cells. The genotype is usually specified as 45X (10)/46XX (90)
   to indicate for example, that 10% of cells examined were found to have
   X-monosomy.


    X-CHROMOSOME DEFECTS

   A third cause of Turner syndrome involves X-chromosome defects rather
   than complete loss. For example, one X-chromosome may be fragmented,
   have portions deleted or other structural problems such as ring
   formation preventing the normal expression of X-chromosome genes.

   The clinical consequences of having one normal and one structurally
   defective X-chromosome vary widely. A small deletion may result in a
   single feature such as ovarian failure or short stature and no other
   effects. Larger deletions or deletions affecting critical areas
   regulating the whole chromosome may result in a full spectrum of Turner
   syndrome problems.

   Moreover, the presence of small ring X-chromosome causes severe
   consequences, because in addition to absence of some important genes,
   there may be deleterious expression of X-chromosome genes that are
   normally silenced, or inactivated in the second X-chromosome. The
   diagnosis of abnormal X-chromosomes may require specialized, molecular
   cytogenetic studies to identify small deletions or inversions of
   X-chromosome material.


    IS TURNER SYNDROME 'HEREDITARY'?

   While Turner syndrome is genetic in that it involves the loss or
   abnormal expression of X-chromosome genes, it is not usually hereditary
   in the conventional sense. That is, it does not typically "run in
   families." The one exception to this observation are families with a
   X-chromosome deletion which is stable enough to be passed down through
   the generations and which also allows fertility.

   Turner syndrome affects all races, nationalities and regions of the
   world equally, and parents who have produced many unaffected children
   may still have a child with Turner syndrome. There are no known toxins
   or environmental hazards that increase the chances of Turner syndrome.

   A woman with Turner syndrome has a low probability of being fertile,
   since the ovaries are negatively impacted in this disorder. However, if
   she does become pregnant and passes on her normal X-chromosome to her
   offspring, no continuation of the syndrome is expected.
