http://www.state.gov/s/ct/



   globe                                             U.S. Department of State
         lines
                                  Home contact us FOIA Privacy Notice Archive

         About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
         Abroad
         Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
         Education and Culture
         Business Center Other Services Employment


      Bureaus/Offices Reporting Directly to the Secretary

   Counterterrorism Office

      Countering Terrorism: A Global Mission
      Rewards for Justice
      Diplomatic Security: Antiterrorism Assistance Program
      White House: Multi-Front War on Terrorism
      The Office of Homeland Security
      The CIA: The World Factbook 2001
      Official Statements: Coalition Against Terrorism
      Congressional Action
      Treaties Relating to Terrorism
      Related Sites
      Releases
      Archive



Counterterrorism Office

   Ambassador Francis X. Taylor heads the Office of Counterterrorism and
   coordinates all U.S. Government efforts to improve counterterrorism
   cooperation with foreign governments. As the Coordinator, he chairs the
   Interagency Working Group on Counterterrorism and the State
   Department's terrorism task forces to coordinate responses to major
   international terrorist incidents that are in progress. Another primary
   responsibility is to develop, coordinate, and implement American
   counterterrorism policy.

   U.S. Counterterrorism Policy
   First, make no concessions to terrorists and strike no deals;
   Second, bring terrorists to justice for their crimes;
   Third, isolate and apply pressure on states that sponsor terrorism to
   force them to change their behavior; and
   Fourth, bolster the counterterrorism capabilities of those countries
   that work with the U.S. and require assistance.

   Contact Information: For additional assistance, please contact the
   Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism, Office of Public
   Affairs, Room 2507, Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington,
   DC 20520


   Highlights

   Joint India-U.S. Statement on Counterterrorism
   India and the U.S. held their fourth meeting of the Joint Working Group
   on Counterterrorism on January 21-22 in India.

   Joint Counterterrorism Working Group Meets
   Ambassador Taylor and a U.S. delegation held bilateral meetings in
   India; with topics of cyberterrorism, multilateral cooperation, and the
   global campaign against terrorism.

   New Names Added to Executive Order 13224
   View the comprehensive list, which includes newly named terrorists and
   groups identified under this Order.

   Terrorist Incidents
   A chronology of incidents from 1961 - 2001.

                                    SEAL

   This site is managed by the Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Department
   of State. External links to other Internet sites should not be
   construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.
