http://lutece.fnal.gov/thinkshop/default.html

                                  thinkshop

                    Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
                            October 16 - 18, 1998

                                Organized by
            Elizabeth H. Simmons (Boston University) 617.353.4792
           Scott Willenbrock (University of Illinois) 217.333.4392
                    Stephen Parke (Fermilab) 630.840.4517
                     Chris Quigg (Fermilab) 630.840.3578

                                 thinkshop2

                thinkshop^2: the sequel, November 10-12, 2000

                           thinkshop Participants

                    General Reviews on Top-Quark Physics

    Top Physics at the LHC · Report of the LHC Top Physics Working Group

     In preparation for Run II of Fermilab's Tevatron Collider, we are
     organizing a thinkshop on top-quark physics that will bring together
     theorists and experimentalists from the HEP community at Fermilab
     and beyond. The goals of the top thinkshop are to give theorists a
     better understanding of the discovery potential of Tevatron Run II
     and to develop new experimental opportunities for the CDF and DØ
     detectors. The atmosphere of the top thinkshop will be informal, to
     foster the presentation and discussion of new ideas. We hope for a
     stimulating exchange that will inspire future research in both
     theory and experiment.

     The heart of the thinkshop will be Discussion Groups modeled on
     Aspen workshops. The convenors (one experimentalist and one theorist
     for each group) will select several participants to make
     "five-minute" presentations, which we expect will stretch to ten
     minutes with interruptions and elaborations. Each of these should
     provoke group discussion. It is the job of the convenors to cut off
     speakers at the right moment, to animate discussion, and to move on
     to the next topic.

     We welcome suggestions for thinkshop topics and for specific
     presentations.

           Fermilab Visitor Information , Lodging , Transportation

                             Contributed Papers

                                   PROGRAM

     * Friday, October 16  · Wilson Hall One West
          + 1300: Chris Quigg, Welcome and Introduction to the thinkshop
          + 1310: Scott Snyder, Review and Preview of Top Physics at DØ
          + 1350: Rob Roser, Review and Preview of Top Physics at CDF
          + 1430: John Parsons, Top Studies for the LHC
          + 1450: Introduction to the thinkshop Discussion Groups
          + 1530: Metaphorical wine and cheese
          + 1600: Joint Experimental Theoretical Seminar: Scott
            Willenbrock, "Thinking about Top: Within the Standard Model,"
            hep-ph/9905498
            and Elizabeth Simmons, (added compositeness slides), "Thinking
            about Top: Looking Outside the Standard Model,"
            hep-ph/9908511.
          + 1715: Brief meetings of the Discussion Groups, as needed
          + 1800: Disperse for dinner
     * Saturday, October 17
          + 0900: Parallel meetings of Morning Discussion Groups
          + 1230: Lunch
          + 1400: Parallel meetings of Afternoon Discussion Groups
          + 1730: Disperse for dinner
     * Sunday, October 18
          + 0900: Ten-minute reports from the discussion groups:
            NN, Precision Measurements
            NN, Electroweak interactions
            Steve Ellis, Top Pairs: Theory
            Regina Demina, Is it really top?
            Ray Hall, Does top have substructure?
            Mark Kruse and Bogdan Dobrescu, Unusual quantum numbers
            Tom LeCompte, Rare Decays
            NN, Electroweak symmetry breaking
          + 1100: Group discussion: What is the next step?
          + 1200: End of thinkshop; organizers and convenors meet to
            discuss what should be done next (e.g. nothing ? a second
            thinkshop in 6-8 months ? simulations ?). If something is to
            be done, discuss how to organize it and who will be
            responsible for what.

                          MORNING DISCUSSION GROUPS

   Precision Measurements: This is mostly about m[t]: how to define it,
   the limits to measurement and interpretation, the motivation for making
   a measurement of this or that precision, comparing measurements of m[t]
   from different channels. List of Participants

   Weak Interactions of Top: Branching fraction of top into b+W, top width
   and single-top cross section, measurement of |V[tb]| in single-top
   production, the W decay angular distribution. Except for the
   possibility of a sequential fourth generation, we take the top to have
   standard weak interactions. How well can we measure these properties,
   and what do the measurements mean? List of Participants

   Top Pair Production: Total cross section (how well can it be measured
   and calculated); kinematical characteristics and spin correlations; the
   top-antitop invariant mass spectrum; sensitivity to unconventional
   three-gluon couplings, etc. The motivation and rewards of these
   studies. List of Participants

   Is it really top? Is it only top? This group explores speculations that
   stop is present in the top sample, that isoscalar quarks may be mixed
   in, etc. They should try to understand how to confirm or kill some of
   the exotic interpretations, and to extend the search for new particles
   associated with top in Run II. List of Participants

                         AFTERNOON DISCUSSION GROUPS

   Does top have substructure? Is top as pointlike as the light quarks, or
   is it composite at some lower scale? What measurements will best
   constrain top compositeness? If the current constraints are weaker than
   for the other fermions, can one build a model in which the top's size
   is significantly larger? What are the implications for experiment? List
   of Participants

   Does top have nonstandard gauge couplings / unusual quantum numbers? Do
   the gauge interactions treat all three generations of fermions
   similarly, or is the third generation treated differently? Explore new
   mechanisms for single-top production, search for gauge bosons that
   couple preferentially to the third generation, etc. List of
   Participants

   Rare decays of top? Charged scalars in top decay to b + scalar;
   flavor-changing neutral-current decays, etc. Theoretical motivation and
   experimental sensitivity. List of Participants

   Does top play a special role in hiding electroweak and flavor symmetry?
   Top condensates, variants of extended technicolor, etc. What are the
   experimental targets, beyond structure in the top-antitop invariant
   mass distribution? List of Participants
