http://coast2025.nos.noaa.gov/htmls/privacy.html

   Coastal Futures 2025
   (top)

   Coastal Futures 2025

                         Privacy and Security Notice

   National Ocean Service, an office of the National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, operates this
   World Wide Web server as a public service. Information presented on
   these pages is considered public information and may be distributed or
   copied. Use of appropriate photo and image credits is requested.

   All Web servers need to collect technical information in order to share
   their contents with visitors. The technical information (see example
   below) identifies what part of the Web site a visiting computer wishes
   to reach, and where to send the requested information once it is found.
   For site management, this technical information is also used for
   statistical analysis. Summary statistics are used for such purposes as
   assessing what information is of most and least interest, identifying
   usage trends over time, determining technical design specifications,
   and identifying system performance or problem areas. These aggregate
   statistical summaries are posted on the Web site for use by National
   Ocean Service personnel, and are available to the public.

   Electronic mail sent to addresses listed on this Web site, such as
   those on the Contacts page, is treated no differently than any other
   electronic mail. All electronic mail transactions are handled by
   electronic mail servers, and do not pass through this Web site, nor are
   they monitored or recorded by this site in any way.

   For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
   available to all users, this government computer system employs
   hardware and software to monitor network traffic and to identify
   unauthorized attempts to add or alter information, or otherwise cause
   damage or interfere with information delivery. Except for authorized
   law enforcement investigations, no attempt is made to identify
   individual users or their usage habits. Raw data logs may be stored
   indefinitely for use in statistical analysis or to protect the security
   and integrity of the computer system.

   Unauthorized attempts to add information or alter information on this
   service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act.




   top

      Coast 2025 Home
