http://www.ca7.uscourts.gov/Rules/rules.htm


                       FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE



    CIRCUIT RULES OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT



                       SEVENTH CIRCUIT OPERATING PROCEDURES



                                    APPENDICES



       PLAN OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT TO
   SUPPLEMENT THE PLANS OF THE SEVERAL UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURTS WITHIN THE
                                  SEVENTH CIRCUIT



      STANDARDS FOR PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT WITHIN THE SEVENTH FEDERAL JUDICIAL
                                      CIRCUIT
        __________________________________________________________________

          These rules and procedures are current as of December 1, 2001.



























































































                [prntRu4a.gif]

                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                             [hrblk.gif]

   Title I. Applicability of Rules
   F.R.A.P. 1. Scope of Rules; Title

   CIR. R. 1. Scope of Rules

   F.R.A.P. 2. Suspension of Rules

   CIR. R. 2. Suspension of Rules

   Title II. Appeals from Judgments and Orders of District Courts

   F.R.A.P. 3. Appeal as of Right--How Taken

   CIR. R. 3. Notice of Appeal, Docketing Fee, Docketing Statement, and
   Designation of Counsel of Record

   F.R.A.P. 4. Appeal as of Right--When Taken

   F.R.A.P. 5. Appeal by Permission

   F.R.A.P. 6. Appeal in a Bankruptcy Case from a Final Judgment, Order,
   or Decree of a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel

   F.R.A.P. 7. Bond for Costs on Appeal in a Civil Cases

   F.R.A.P. 8. Stay or Injunction Pending Appeal

   CIR. R. 8. Motions for Stays and Injunctions Pending Appeal

   F.R.A.P. 9. Release in a Criminal Case

   CIR. R. 9. Motions Concerning Custody Pending Trial or Appeal

   F.R.A.P. 10. The Record on Appeal

   CIR. R. 10. Preparation of Record in District Court Appeals

   F.R.A.P. 11. Forwarding the Record

   CIR. R. 11. Record on Appeal

   F.R.A.P. 12. Docketing the Appeal; Filing a Representation Statement;
   Filing the Record

   CIR. R. 12. Docketing the Appeal

   Title III. Review of a Decision of the United States Tax Court

   F.R.A.P. 13. Review of a Decision of the Tax Court

   F.R.A.P. 14. Applicability of Other Rules to the Review of a Tax Court
   Decision

   Title IV. Review or Enforcement of an Order of an Administrative
   Agency, Board, Commission, or Officer

   F.R.A.P. 15. Review or Enforcement of an Agency Order--How Obtained;
   Intervention

   F.R.A.P.15.1. Briefs and Oral Argument in a National Labor Relations
   Board Proceeding

   F.R.A.P. 16. The Record on Review or Enforcement

   F.R.A.P. 17. Filing the Record

   F.R.A.P. 18. Stay Pending Review

   F.R.A.P. 19. Settlement of a Judgment Enforcing an Agency Order in Part

   F.R.A.P. 20. Applicability of Rules to the Review or Enforcement of an
   Agency Order

   Title V. Extraordinary Writs

   F.R.A.P. 21. Writs of Mandamus and Prohibition, and Other Extraordinary
   Writs

   Title VI. Habeas Corpus: Proceedings In Forma Pauperis

   F.R.A.P. 22. Habeas Corpus and Section 2255 Proceedings

   CIR. R. 22. Death Penalty Cases

   CIR. R. 22.2. Successive Petitions for Collateral Review

   F.R.A.P. 23. Custody or Release of a Prisoner in a Habeas Corpus
   Proceeding

   F.R.A.P. 24. Proceeding In Forma Pauperis

   Title VII. General Provisions.

   F.R.A.P. 25. Filing and Service

   F.R.A.P. 26. Computing and Extending Time

   CIR. R. 26. Extensions of Time to File Briefs

   F.R.A.P 26.1. Corporate Disclosure Statement

   CIR. R. 26.1. Disclosure Statement

   F.R.A.P. 27. Motions

   F.R.A.P. 28. Briefs

   CIR. R. 28. Briefs

   F.R.A.P. 29. Brief of an Amicus Curiae

   F.R.A.P. 30. Appendix to the Briefs

   CIR. R. 30. Appendices

   F.R.A.P. 31. Serving and Filing Briefs

   CIR. R. 31. Filing of Briefs and Failure to Timely File Briefs

   F.R.A.P. 32. Form of Briefs, Appendices, and Other Papers

   CIR. R. 32. Form of a Brief

   F.R.A.P. 33. Appeal Conferences

   CIR. R. 33. Prehearing Conference

   F.R.A.P. 34. Oral Argument

   CIR. R. 34. Oral Argument

   F.R.A.P. 35. En Banc Determination

   CIR. R. 35. Petitions for Rehearing En Banc

   F.R.A.P. 36. Entry of Judgment; Notice

   CIR. R. 36. Reassignment of Remanded Cases

   F.R.A.P. 37. Interest on Judgments

   F.R.A.P. 38. Frivolous Appeals -- Damages and Costs

   F.R.A.P. 39. Costs

   CIR. R. 39. Costs of Printing Briefs and Appendices

   F.R.A.P. 40. Petition for Panel Rehearing

   CIR. R. 40. Petitions for Rehearing

   F.R.A.P. 41. Mandate; Contents; Issuance and Effective Date; Stay

   CIR. R. 41. Immediate Issuance of Mandate After Certain Dispositions

   F.R.A.P. 42. Voluntary Dismissal

   F.R.A.P. 43. Substitution of Parties

   CIR. R. 43. Change in Public Offices

   F.R.A.P. 44. Case Involving a Constitutional Question When the United
   States is Not a Party

   F.R.A.P. 45. Clerk's Duties

   CIR. R. 45. Fees

   CIR. R. 46. Attorneys

   F.R.A.P. 47. Local Rules by Court of Appeals

   CIR. R. 47. Advisory Committee

   F.R.A.P. 48. Masters

   CIR. R. 50. Judges to Give Reasons When Dismissing a Claim, Granting
   Summary Judgment, or Entering an Appealable Order

   CIR. R. 51. Summary Disposition of Certain Appeals by Convicted
   Persons; Waiver of Appeal

   CIR. R. 52. Certification of Questions of State Law

   CIR. R. 53. Plan for Publication of Opinions of the Seventh Circuit
   Promulgated Pursuant to Resolution of the Judicial Conference of the
   United States

   CIR. R. 54. Remands from Supreme Court

   CIR. R. 55. Prohibition of Photographs and Broadcasts

   CIR. R. 56. Opportunity to Object and Make Proposals On the Record

   CIR. R. 57. Remands for Revision of Judgment

   CIR. R. 60. Seventh Circuit Judicial Conference

                                 APPENDICES

   Appendix of Forms to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure

   Form 1-- Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a Judgment or
   Order of a District Court

   Form 2-- Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a Decision of the
   Tax Court

   Form 3-- Petition for Review of Order of an Agency, Board, Commission
   or Officer

   Form 4-- Affidavit Accompanying Motion for Permission to Appeal In
   Forma Pauperis

   Form 5-- Notice of Appeal to a Court of Appeals From a Judgment or
   Order of a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel

   Appendix of Forms to the Circuit Rules

   Appendix I-- Notice Re: for Defendant Counsel's Motion for Leave to
   Withdraw Under Circuit Rule 51(b)

   Appendix II-- Form of Notice for Motion for Dismissal Under Circuit
   Rule 51(d)

   Appendix III-- Form of Acknowledgment of Attorney's Motion for
   Dismissal and Consent to the Dismissal of the Appeal

   Seventh Circuit Operating Procedures

   Seventh Circuit Criminal Justice Act Plan
   Standards for Professional Conduct Within the Seventh Federal Judicial
   Circuit

                                 [hrblk.gif]

                    Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure

                                     and
                            Seventh Circuit Rules

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 1:

   RULE 1. Scope of Rules; Title

   (a) Scope of Rules.

   (1) These rules govern procedure in the United States courts of
   appeals.

   (2) When these rules provide for filing a motion or other document in
   the district court, the procedure must comply with the practice of the
   district court.

   (b) Rules Do Not Affect Jurisdiction. These rules do not extend or
   limit the jurisdiction of the courts of appeals.

   (c) Title. These rules are to be known as the Federal Rules of
   Appellate Procedure.

   CIRCUIT RULE 1. Scope of Rules

   These rules govern procedure in the United States Court of Appeals for
   the Seventh Circuit. They are to be known as the Circuit Rules of the
   United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 2:

   RULE 2. Suspension of Rules

   On its own or a party's motion, a court of appeals may-to expedite its
   decision or for other good cause-suspend any provision of these rules
   in a particular case and order proceedings as it directs, except as
   otherwise provided in Rule 26(b).

   CIRCUIT RULE 2. Suspension of Circuit Rules

   In the interest of expediting decision or for other good cause, the
   court may suspend the requirements of these Circuit Rules.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 3:

   RULE 3. Appeal as of Right--How Taken

   (a) Filing the Notice of Appeal.

   (1) An appeal permitted by law as of right from a district court to a
   court of appeals may be taken only by filing a notice of appeal with
   the district clerk within the time allowed by Rule 4. At the time of
   filing, the appellant must furnish the clerk with enough copies of the
   notice to enable the clerk to comply with Rule 3(d).

   (2) An appellant's failure to take any step other than the timely
   filing of a notice of appeal does not affect the validity of the
   appeal, but is ground only for the court of appeals to act as it
   considers appropriate, including dismissing the appeal.

   (3) An appeal from a judgment by a magistrate judge in a civil case is
   taken in the same way as an appeal from any other district court
   judgment.

   (4) An appeal by permission under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) or an appeal in a
   bankruptcy case may be taken only in the manner prescribed by Rules 5
   and 6, respectively.

   (b) Joint or Consolidated Appeals.

   (1) When two or more parties are entitled to appeal from a district
   court judgment or order, and their interests make joinder practicable,
   they may file a joint notice of appeal. They may then proceed on appeal
   as a single appellant.

   (2) When the parties have filed separate timely notices of appeal, the
   appeals may be joined or consolidated by the court of appeals.

   (c) Contents of the Notice of Appeal.

   (1) The notice of appeal must:

   (A) specify the party or parties taking the appeal by naming each one
   in the caption or body of the notice, but an attorney representing more
   than one party may describe those parties with such terms as "all
   plaintiffs," "the defendants," "the plaintiffs A, B, et al.," or "all
   defendants except X";

   (B) designate the judgment, order, or part thereof being appealed; and

   (C) name the court to which the appeal is taken.

   (2) A pro se notice of appeal is considered filed on behalf of the
   signer and the signer's spouse and minor children (if they are
   parties), unless the notice clearly indicates otherwise.

   (3) In a class action, whether or not the class has been certified, the
   notice of appeal is sufficient if it names one person qualified to
   bring the appeal as representative of the class.

   (4) An appeal must not be dismissed for informality of form or title of
   the notice of appeal, or for failure to name a party whose intent to
   appeal is otherwise clear from the notice.

   (5) Form 1 in the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a notice of
   appeal.

   (d) Serving the Notice of Appeal.

   (1) The district clerk must serve notice of the filing of a notice of
   appeal by mailing a copy to each party's counsel of record-excluding
   the appellant's or, if a party is proceeding pro se, to the party's
   last known address. When a defendant in a criminal case appeals, the
   clerk must also serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the defendant,
   either by personal service or by mail addressed to the defendant. The
   clerk must promptly send a copy of the notice of appeal and of the
   docket entries-and any later docket entries-to the clerk of the court
   of appeals named in the notice. The district clerk must note, on each
   copy, the date when the notice of appeal was filed.

   (2) If an inmate confined in an institution files a notice of appeal in
   the manner provided by Rule 4(c), the district clerk must also note the
   date when the clerk docketed the notice.

   (3) The district clerk's failure to serve notice does not affect the
   validity of the appeal. The clerk must note on the docket the names of
   the parties to whom the clerk mails copies, with the date of mailing.
   Service is sufficient despite the death of a party or the party's
   counsel.

   (e) Payment of Fees. Upon filing a notice of appeal, the appellant must
   pay the district clerk all required fees. The district clerk receives
   the appellate docket fee on behalf of the court of appeals.

   CIRCUIT RULE 3. Notice of Appeal, Docketing Fee, Docketing Statement,
   and Designation of Counsel of Record

   (a) Forwarding Copy of Notice of Appeal. When the clerk of the district
   court sends to the clerk of this court a copy of the notice of appeal,
   the district court clerk shall include any docketing statement. In
   civil cases the clerk of the district court shall include the judgments
   or orders under review, any transcribed oral statement of reasons,
   opinion, memorandum of decision, findings of fact, and conclusions of
   law. The clerk of the district court shall also complete and include
   the Seventh Circuit Appeal Information Sheet in the form prescribed by
   this court.

   (b) Dismissal of Appeal for Failure to Pay Docketing Fee. If a
   proceeding is docketed without prepayment of the docketing fee, the
   appellant shall pay the fee within 14 days after docketing. If the
   appellant fails to do so, the clerk is authorized to dismiss the
   appeal.

   (c)(1) Docketing Statement. The appellant must serve on all parties a
   docketing statement and file it with the clerk of the district court at
   the time of the filing of the notice of appeal or with the clerk of
   this court within seven days of filing the notice of appeal. The
   docketing statement must comply with the requirements of Circuit Rule
   28(a). If there have been prior or related appellate proceedings in the
   case, or if the party believes that the earlier appellate proceedings
   are sufficiently related to the new appeal, the statement must identify
   these proceedings by caption and number. The statement also must
   describe any prior litigation in the district court that, although not
   appealed, (a) arises out of the same criminal conviction, or (b) has
   been designated by the district court as satisfying the criteria of 28
   U.S.C. §1915(g). If any of the parties to the litigation appears in an
   official capacity, the statement must identify the current occupant of
   the office. The docketing statement in a collateral attack on a
   criminal conviction must identify the prisoner's current place of
   confinement and its current warden; if the prisoner has been released,
   the statement must describe the nature of any ongoing custody (such as
   supervised release) and identify the custodian. If the docketing
   statement is not complete and correct, the appellee must provide a
   complete one to the court of appeals clerk within 14 days after the
   date of the filing of the appellant's docketing statement.

   (2) Failure to file the docketing statement within 14 days of the
   filing of the notice of appeal will lead to the imposition of a $100
   fine on counsel. Failure to file the statement within 28 days of the
   filing of the notice of appeal will be treated as abandonment of the
   appeal, and the appeal will be dismissed. When the appeal is docketed,
   the court will remind the litigants of these provisions.

   (d) Counsel of Record. The attorney whose name appears on the docketing
   statement or other document first filed by that party in this court
   will be deemed counsel of record, and a separate notice of appearance
   need not be filed. If the name of more than one attorney is shown, the
   attorney who is counsel of record must be clearly identified. (There
   can be only one counsel of record.) If no attorney is so identified,
   the court will treat the first listed as counsel of record. The court
   will send documents only to the counsel of record for each party, who
   is responsible for transmitting them to other lawyers for the same
   party. The docketing statement or other document must provide the post
   office address and telephone number of counsel of record. The names of
   other members of the Bar of this Court and, if desired, their post
   office addresses, may be added but counsel of record must be clearly
   identified. An attorney representing a party who will not be filing a
   document shall enter a separate notice of appearance as counsel of
   record indicating the name of the party represented. Counsel of record
   may not withdraw, without consent of the court, unless another counsel
   of record is simultaneously substituted.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4:

   RULE 4. Appeal as of Right--When Taken

   (a) Appeal in a Civil Case.

   (1) Time for Filing a Notice of Appeal.

   (A) In a civil case, except as provided in Rules 4(a)(1)(B), 4(a)(4),
   and 4(c), the notice of appeal required by Rule 3 must be filed with
   the district clerk within 30 days after the judgment or order appealed
   from is entered.

   (B) When the United States or its officer or agency is a party, the
   notice of appeal may be filed by any party within 60 days after the
   judgment or order appealed from is entered.

   (2) Filing Before Entry of Judgment. A notice of appeal filed after the
   court announces a decision or order-but before the entry of the
   judgment or order-is treated as filed on the date of and after the
   entry.

   (3) Multiple Appeals. If one party timely files a notice of appeal, any
   other party may file a notice of appeal within 14 days after the date
   when the first notice was filed, or within the time otherwise
   prescribed by this Rule 4(a), whichever period ends later.

   (4) Effect of a Motion on a Notice of Appeal.

   (A) If a party timely files in the district court any of the following
   motions under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the time to file an
   appeal runs for all parties from the entry of the order disposing of
   the last such remaining motion:

   (i) for judgment under Rule 50(b);

   (ii) to amend or make additional factual findings under Rule 52(b),
   whether or not granting the motion would alter the judgment;

   (iii) for attorney's fees under Rule 54 if the district court extends
   the time to appeal under Rule 58;

   (iv) to alter or amend the judgment under Rule 59;

   (v) for a new trial under Rule 59; or

   (vi) for relief under Rule 60 if the motion is filed no later than 10
   days (computed using Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 6(a)) after the
   judgment is entered.

   (B)(i) If a party files a notice of appeal after the court announces or
   enters a judgment-but before it disposes of any motion listed in Rule
   4(a)(4)(A)-the notice becomes effective to appeal a judgment or order,
   in whole or in part, when the order disposing of the last such
   remaining motion is entered.

   (ii) A party intending to challenge an order disposing of any motion
   listed in Rule 4(a)(4)(A), or a judgment altered or amended upon such a
   motion, must file a notice of appeal, or an amended notice of appeal-in
   compliance with Rule 3(c)-within the time prescribed by this Rule
   measured from the entry of the order disposing of the last such
   remaining motion.

   (iii) No additional fee is required to file an amended notice.

   (5) Motion for Extension of Time.

   (A) The district court may extend the time to file a notice of appeal
   if:

   (i) a party so moves no later than 30 days after the time prescribed by
   this Rule 4(a) expires; and

   (ii) that party shows excusable neglect or good cause.

   (B) A motion filed before the expiration of the time prescribed in Rule
   4(a)(1) or (3) may be ex parte unless the court requires otherwise. If
   the motion is filed after the expiration of the prescribed time, notice
   must be given to the other parties in accordance with local rules.

   (C) No extension under this Rule 4(a)(5) may exceed 30 days after the
   prescribed time or 10 days after the date when the order granting the
   motion is entered, whichever is later.

   (6) Reopening the Time to File an Appeal. The district court may reopen
   the time to file an appeal for a period of 14 days after the date when
   its order to reopen is entered, but only if all the following
   conditions are satisfied:

   (A) the motion is filed within 180 days after the judgment or order is
   entered or within 7 days after the moving party receives notice of the
   entry, whichever is earlier;

   (B) the court finds that the moving party was entitled to notice of the
   entry of the judgment or order sought to be appealed but did not
   receive the notice from the district court or any party within 21 days
   after entry; and

   (C) the court finds that no party would be prejudiced.

   (7) Entry Defined. A judgment or order is entered for purposes of this
   Rule 4(a) when it is entered in compliance with Rules 58 and 79(a) of
   the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

   (b) Appeal in a Criminal Case.

   (1) Time for Filing a Notice of Appeal.

   (A) In a criminal case, a defendant's notice of appeal must be filed in
   the district court within 10 days after the later of:

   (i) the entry of either the judgment or the order being appealed; or

   (ii) the filing of the government's notice of appeal.

   (B) When the government is entitled to appeal, its notice of appeal
   must be filed in the district court within 30 days after the later of:

   (i) the entry of the judgment or order being appealed; or

   (ii) the filing of a notice of appeal by any defendant.

   (2) Filing Before Entry of Judgment. A notice of appeal filed after the
   court announces a decision, sentence, or order-but before the entry of
   the judgment or order-is treated as filed on the date of and after the
   entry.

   (3) Effect of a Motion on a Notice of Appeal.

   (A) If a defendant timely makes any of the following motions under the
   Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the notice of appeal from a
   judgment of conviction must be filed within 10 days after the entry of
   the order disposing of the last such remaining motion, or within 10
   days after the entry of the judgment of conviction, whichever period
   ends later. This provision applies to a timely motion:

   (i) for judgment of acquittal under Rule 29;

   (ii) for a new trial under Rule 33, but if based on newly discovered
   evidence, only if the motion is made no later than 10 days after the
   entry of the judgment; or

   (iii) for arrest of judgment under Rule 34.

   (B) A notice of appeal filed after the court announces a decision,
   sentence, or order-but before it disposes of any of the motions
   referred to in Rule 4(b)(3)(A)-becomes effective upon the later of the
   following:

   (i) the entry of the order disposing of the last such remaining motion;
   or

   (ii) the entry of the judgment of conviction.

   (C) A valid notice of appeal is effective-without amendment-to appeal
   from an order disposing of any of the motions referred to in Rule
   4(b)(3)(A).

   (4) Motion for Extension of Time. Upon a finding of excusable neglect
   or good cause, the district court may-before or after the time has
   expired, with or without motion and notice-extend the time to file a
   notice of appeal for a period not to exceed 30 days from the expiration
   of the time otherwise prescribed by this Rule 4(b).

   (5) Jurisdiction. The filing of a notice of appeal under this Rule 4(b)
   does not divest a district court of jurisdiction to correct a sentence
   under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 35(c), nor does the filing of
   a motion under 35(c) affect the validity of a notice of appeal filed
   before entry of the order disposing of the motion.

   (6) Entry Defined. A judgment or order is entered for purposes of this
   Rule 4(b) when it is entered on the criminal docket.

   (c) Appeal by an Inmate Confined in an Institution.

   (1) If an inmate confined in an institution files a notice of appeal in
   either a civil or a criminal case, the notice is timely if it is
   deposited in the institution's internal mail system on or before the
   last day for filing. If an institution has a system designed for legal
   mail, the inmate must use that system to receive the benefit of this
   rule. Timely filing may be shown by a declaration in compliance with 28
   U.S.C. § 1746 or by a notarized statement, either of which must set
   forth the date of deposit and state that first-class postage has been
   prepaid.

   (2) If an inmate files the first notice of appeal in a civil case under
   this Rule 4(c), the 14-day period provided in Rule 4(a)(3) for another
   party to file a notice of appeal runs from the date when the district
   court dockets the first notice.

   (3) When a defendant in a criminal case files a notice of appeal under
   this Rule 4(c), the 30-day period for the government to file its notice
   of appeal runs from the entry of the judgment or order appealed from or
   from the district court's docketing of the defendant's notice of
   appeal, whichever is later.

   (d) Mistaken Filing in the Court of Appeals. If a notice of appeal in
   either a civil or a criminal case is mistakenly filed in the court of
   appeals, the clerk of that court must note on the notice the date when
   it was received and send it to the district clerk. The notice is then
   considered filed in the district court on the date so noted.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 5:

   RULE 5. Appeal by Permission

   (a) Petition for Permission to Appeal.

   (1) To request permission to appeal when an appeal is within the court
   of appeals' discretion, a party must file a petition for permission to
   appeal. The petition must be filed with the circuit clerk with proof of
   service on all other parties to the district-court action.

   (2) The petition must be filed within the time specified by the statute
   or rule authorizing the appeal or, if no such time is specified, within
   the time provided by Rule 4(a) for filing a notice of appeal.

   (3) If a party cannot petition for appeal unless the district court
   first enters an order granting permission to do so or stating that the
   necessary conditions are met, the district court may amend its order,
   either on its own or in response to a party's motion, to include the
   required permission or statement. In that event, the time to petition
   runs from entry of the amended order.

   (b) Contents of the Petition; Answer or Cross-Petition; Oral Argument.

   (1) The petition must include the following:

   (A) the facts necessary to understand the question presented;

   (B) the question itself;

   (C) the relief sought;

   (D) the reasons why the appeal should be allowed and is authorized by a
   statute or rule; and

   (E) an attached copy of:

   (i) the order, decree, or judgment complained of and any related
   opinion or memorandum, and

   (ii) any order stating the district court's permission to appeal or
   finding that the necessary conditions are met.

   (2) A party may file an answer in opposition or a cross-petition within
   7 days after the petition is served.

   (3) The petition and answer will be submitted without oral argument
   unless the court of appeals orders otherwise.

   (c) Form of Papers; Number of Copies. All papers must conform to Rule
   32(a)(1). An original and 3 copies must be filed unless the court
   requires a different number by local rule or by order in a particular
   case.

   (d) Grant of Permission; Fees; Cost Bond; Filing the Record.

   (1) Within 10 days after the entry of the order granting permission to
   appeal, the appellant must:

   (A) pay the district clerk all required fees; and

   (B) file a cost bond if required under Rule 7.

   (2) A notice of appeal need not be filed. The date when the order
   granting permission to appeal is entered serves as the date of the
   notice of appeal for calculating time under these rules.

   (3) The district clerk must notify the circuit clerk once the
   petitioner has paid the fees. Upon receiving this notice, the circuit
   clerk must enter the appeal on the docket. The record must be forwarded
   and filed in accordance with Rules 11 and 12(c).

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 6:

   RULE 6. Appeal in a Bankruptcy Case from a Final Judgment, Order, or
   Decree of a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel.

   (a) Appeal From a Judgment, Order, or Decree of a District Court
   Exercising Original Jurisdiction in a Bankruptcy Case. An appeal to a
   court of appeals from a final judgment, order, or decree of a district
   court exercising jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1334 is taken as any
   other civil appeal under these rules.

   (b) Appeal From a Judgment, Order, or Decree of a District Court or
   Bankruptcy Appellate Panel Exercising Appellate Jurisdiction in a
   Bankruptcy Case.

   (1) Applicability of Other Rules. These rules apply to an appeal to a
   court of appeals under 28 U.S.C. § 158(d) from a final judgment, order,
   or decree of a district court or bankruptcy appellate panel exercising
   appellate jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) or (b). But there are 3
   exceptions:

   (A) Rules 4(a)(4), 4(b), 9, 10, 11, 12(b), 13-20, 22-23, and 24(b) do
   not apply;

   (B) the reference in Rule 3(c) to "Form 1 in the Appendix of Forms"
   must be read as a reference to Form 5; and

   (C) when the appeal is from a bankruptcy appellate panel, the term
   "district court," as used in any applicable rule, means "appellate
   panel."

   (2) Additional Rules. In addition to the rules made applicable by Rule
   6(b)(1), the following rules apply:

   (A) Motion for Rehearing.

   (i) If a timely motion for rehearing under Bankruptcy Rule 8015 is
   filed, the time to appeal for all parties runs from the entry of the
   order disposing of the motion. A notice of appeal filed after the
   district court or bankruptcy appellate panel announces or enters a
   judgment, order, or decree-but before disposition of the motion for
   rehearing-becomes effective when the order disposing of the motion for
   rehearing is entered.

   (ii) Appellate review of the order disposing of the motion requires the
   party, in compliance with Rules 3(c) and 6(b)(1)(B), to amend a
   previously filed notice of appeal. A party intending to challenge an
   altered or amended judgment, order, or decree must file a notice of
   appeal or amended notice of appeal within the time prescribed by Rule
   4-excluding Rules 4(a)(4) and 4(b)-measured from the entry of the order
   disposing of the motion.

   (iii) No additional fee is required to file an amended notice.

   (B) The Record on Appeal.

   (i) Within 10 days after filing the notice of appeal, the appellant
   must file with the clerk possessing the record assembled in accordance
   with Bankruptcy Rule 8006-and serve on the appellee-a statement of the
   issues to be presented on appeal and a designation of the record to be
   certified and sent to the circuit clerk.

   (ii) An appellee who believes that other parts of the record are
   necessary must, within 10 days after being served with the appellant's
   designation, file with the clerk and serve on the appellant a
   designation of additional parts to be included.

   (iii) The record on appeal consists of:

   the redesignated record as provided above;

   the proceedings in the district court or bankruptcy appellate panel;
   and

   a certified copy of the docket entries prepared by the clerk under Rule
   3(d).

   (C) Forwarding the Record.

   (i) When the record is complete, the district clerk or bankruptcy
   appellate panel clerk must number the documents constituting the record
   and send them promptly to the circuit clerk together with a list of the
   documents correspondingly numbered and reasonably identified. Unless
   directed to do so by a party or the circuit clerk, the clerk will not
   send to the court of appeals documents of unusual bulk or weight,
   physical exhibits other than documents, or other parts of the record
   designated for omission by local rule of the court of appeals. If the
   exhibits are unusually bulky or heavy, a party must arrange with the
   clerks in advance for their transportation and receipt.

   (ii) All parties must do whatever else is necessary to enable the clerk
   to assemble and forward the record. The court of appeals may provide by
   rule or order that a certified copy of the docket entries be sent in
   place of the redesignated record, but any party may request at any time
   during the pendency of the appeal that the redesignated record be sent.

   (D) Filing the Record. Upon receiving the record-or a certified copy of
   the docket entries sent in place of the redesignated record-the circuit
   clerk must file it and immediately notify all parties of the filing
   date.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedures 7:

   RULE 7. Bond for Costs on Appeal in a Civil Case

   In a civil case, the district court may require an appellant to file a
   bond or provide other security in any form and amount necessary to
   ensure payment of costs on appeal. Rule 8(b) applies to a surety on a
   bond given under this rule.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 8:

   RULE 8. Stay or Injunction Pending Appeal

   (a) Motion for Stay.

   (1) Initial Motion in the District Court. A party must ordinarily move
   first in the district court for the following relief:

   (A) a stay of the judgment or order of a district court pending appeal;

   (B) approval of a supersedeas bond; or

   (C) an order suspending, modifying, restoring, or granting an
   injunction while an appeal is pending.

   (2) Motion in the Court of Appeals; Conditions on Relief. A motion for
   the relief mentioned in Rule 8(a)(1) may be made to the court of
   appeals or to one of its judges.

   (A) The motion must:

   (i) show that moving first in the district court would be
   impracticable; or

   (ii) state that, a motion having been made, the district court denied
   the motion or failed to afford the relief requested and state any
   reasons given by the district court for its action.

   (B) The motion must also include:

   (i) the reasons for granting the relief requested and the facts relied
   on;

   (ii) originals or copies of affidavits or other sworn statements
   supporting facts subject to dispute; and

   (iii) relevant parts of the record.

   (C) The moving party must give reasonable notice of the motion to all
   parties.

   (D) A motion under this Rule 8(a)(2) must be filed with the circuit
   clerk and normally will be considered by a panel of the court. But in
   an exceptional case in which time requirements make that procedure
   impracticable, the motion may be made to and considered by a single
   judge.

   (E) The court may condition relief on a party's filing a bond or other
   appropriate security in the district court.

   (b) Proceeding Against a Surety. If a party gives security in the form
   of a bond or stipulation or other undertaking with one or more
   sureties, each surety submits to the jurisdiction of the district court
   and irrevocably appoints the district clerk as the surety's agent on
   whom any papers affecting the surety's liability on the bond or
   undertaking may be served. On motion, a surety's liability may be
   enforced in the district court without the necessity of an independent
   action. The motion and any notice that the district court prescribes
   may be served on the district clerk, who must promptly mail a copy to
   each surety whose address is known.

   (c) Stay in a Criminal Case. Rule 38 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
   Procedure governs a stay in a criminal case.

   CIRCUIT RULE 8. Motions for Stays and Injunctions Pending Appeal

   Counsel's obligation under Fed. R. App. P. 8(a) to provide this court
   with the reasons the district judge gave for denying relief includes an
   obligation to supply any statement of reasons by a magistrate judge or
   bankruptcy judge. Filing with the motion a copy of the order or
   memorandum of decision in which the reasons were stated, or if they
   were stated orally in open court, a copy of the transcript of
   proceedings is preferred; but, in an emergency, if such a copy is not
   available, counsel's statement of the reasons given by the district or
   bankruptcy court will suffice.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 9:

   Rule 9. Release in a Criminal Case

   (a) Release Before Judgment of Conviction.

   (1) The district court must state in writing, or orally on the record,
   the reasons for an order regarding the release or detention of a
   defendant in a criminal case. A party appealing from the order must
   file with the court of appeals a copy of the district court's order and
   the court's statement of reasons as soon as practicable after filing
   the notice of appeal. An appellant who questions the factual basis for
   the district court's order must file a transcript of the release
   proceedings or an explanation of why a transcript was not obtained.

   (2) After reasonable notice to the appellee, the court of appeals must
   promptly determine the appeal on the basis of the papers, affidavits,
   and parts of the record that the parties present or the court requires.
   Unless the court so orders, briefs need not be filed.

   (3) The court of appeals or one of its judges may order the defendant's
   release pending the disposition of the appeal.

   (b) Release After Judgment of Conviction. A party entitled to do so may
   obtain review of a district-court order regarding release after a
   judgment of conviction by filing a notice of appeal from that order in
   the district court, or by filing a motion in the court of appeals if
   the party has already filed a notice of appeal from the judgment of
   conviction. Both the order and the review are subject to Rule 9(a). The
   papers filed by the party seeking review must include a copy of the
   judgment of conviction.

   (c) Criteria for Release. The court must make its decision regarding
   release in accordance with the applicable provisions of 18 U.S.C. §§
   3142, 3143, and 3145(c).

   CIRCUIT RULE 9. Motions Concerning Custody Pending Trial or Appeal

   (a) All requests for release from custody pending trial shall be by
   motion. The defendant shall file a notice of appeal followed by a
   motion.

   (b) All requests to reverse orders granting bail or enlargement pending
   trial or appeal shall be by motion. The government shall file a notice
   of appeal followed by a motion.

   (c) All requests for release from custody after sentencing and pending
   the disposition of the appeal shall be by motion in the main case.
   There is no need for a separate notice of appeal.

   (d) Any motion filed under this rule shall be accompanied by a
   memorandum of law.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 10:

   RULE 10. The Record on Appeal

   (a) Composition of the Record on Appeal. The following items constitute
   the record on appeal:

   (1) the original papers and exhibits filed in the district court;

   (2) the transcript of proceedings, if any; and

   (3) a certified copy of the docket entries prepared by the district
   clerk.

   (b) The Transcript of Proceedings.

   (1) Appellant's Duty to Order. Within 10 days after filing the notice
   of appeal or entry of an order disposing of the last timely remaining
   motion of a type specified in Rule 4(a)(4)(A), whichever is later, the
   appellant must do either of the following:

   (A) order from the reporter a transcript of such parts of the
   proceedings not already on file as the appellant considers necessary,
   subject to a local rule of the court of appeals and with the following
   qualifications:

   (i) the order must be in writing;

   (ii) if the cost of the transcript is to be paid by the United States
   under the Criminal Justice Act, the order must so state; and

   (iii) the appellant must, within the same period, file a copy of the
   order with the district clerk; or

   (B) file a certificate stating that no transcript will be ordered.

   (2) Unsupported Finding or Conclusion. If the appellant intends to urge
   on appeal that a finding or conclusion is unsupported by the evidence
   or is contrary to the evidence, the appellant must include in the
   record a transcript of all evidence relevant to that finding or
   conclusion.

   (3) Partial Transcript. Unless the entire transcript is ordered:

   (A) the appellant must-within the 10 days provided in Rule
   10(b)(1)-file a statement of the issues that the appellant intends to
   present on the appeal and must serve on the appellee a copy of both the
   order or certificate and the statement;

   (B) if the appellee considers it necessary to have a transcript of
   other parts of the proceedings, the appellee must, within 10 days after
   the service of the order or certificate and the statement of the
   issues, file and serve on the appellant a designation of additional
   parts to be ordered; and

   (C) unless within 10 days after service of that designation the
   appellant has ordered all such parts, and has so notified the appellee,
   the appellee may within the following 10 days either order the parts or
   move in the district court for an order requiring the appellant to do
   so.

   (4) Payment. At the time of ordering, a party must make satisfactory
   arrangements with the reporter for paying the cost of the transcript.

   (c) Statement of the Evidence When the Proceedings Were Not Recorded or
   When a Transcript Is Unavailable. If the transcript of a hearing or
   trial is unavailable, the appellant may prepare a statement of the
   evidence or proceedings from the best available means, including the
   appellant's recollection. The statement must be served on the appellee,
   who may serve objections or proposed amendments within 10 days after
   being served. The statement and any objections or proposed amendments
   must then be submitted to the district court for settlement and
   approval. As settled and approved, the statement must be included by
   the district clerk in the record on appeal.

   (d) Agreed Statement as the Record on Appeal. In place of the record on
   appeal as defined in Rule 10(a), the parties may prepare, sign, and
   submit to the district court a statement of the case showing how the
   issues presented by the appeal arose and were decided in the district
   court. The statement must set forth only those facts averred and proved
   or sought to be proved that are essential to the court's resolution of
   the issues. If the statement is truthful, it-together with any
   additions that the district court may consider necessary to a full
   presentation of the issues on appeal-must be approved by the district
   court and must then be certified to the court of appeals as the record
   on appeal. The district clerk must then send it to the circuit clerk
   within the time provided by Rule 11. A copy of the agreed statement may
   be filed in place of the appendix required by Rule 30.

   (e) Correction or Modification of the Record.

   (1) If any difference arises about whether the record truly discloses
   what occurred in the district court, the difference must be submitted
   to and settled by that court and the record conformed accordingly.

   (2) If anything material to either party is omitted from or misstated
   in the record by error or accident, the omission or misstatement may be
   corrected and a supplemental record may be certified and forwarded:

   (A) on stipulation of the parties;

   (B) by the district court before or after the record has been
   forwarded; or

   (C) by the court of appeals.

   (3) All other questions as to the form and content of the record must
   be presented to the court of appeals.

   CIRCUIT RULE 10. Preparation of Record in District Court Appeals

   (a) Record Preparation Duties. The clerk of the district court shall
   prepare within 14 days of filing the notice of appeal the original
   papers, transcripts filed in the district court, and exhibits received
   or offered in evidence (with the exceptions listed below). The
   transcript of a deposition is "filed" within the meaning of this rule,
   and an exhibit is "received or offered," to the extent that it is
   tendered to the district court in support of a brief or motion, whether
   or not the rules of the district court treat deposition transcripts or
   exhibits as part of the record. These materials may be designated as
   part of the record on appeal without the need for a motion under Fed.
   R. App. P. 10(e). Counsel must ensure that exhibits and transcripts to
   be included in the record which are not in the possession of the
   district court clerk are furnished to the clerk within ten days after
   the filing of the notice of appeal. The following items will not be
   included in a record unless specifically requested by a party by item
   and date of filing within ten days after the notice of appeal is filed
   or unless specifically ordered by this court:

   briefs and memoranda,

   notices of filings,

   subpoenas,

   summonses,

   motions to extend time,

   affidavits and admissions of service and mailing,

   notices of settings,

   depositions and notices, and jury lists.

   (b) Correction or Modification of Record. A motion to correct or modify
   the record pursuant to Rule 10(e), Fed. R. App. P., or a motion to
   strike matter from the record on the ground that it is not properly a
   part thereof shall be presented first to the district court. That
   court's order ruling on the motion will be transmitted to this court as
   part of the record.

   (c) Order or Certification with Regard to Transcript. Counsel and court
   reporters are to utilize the form prescribed by this court when
   ordering transcripts or certifying that none will be ordered. For
   specific requirements, see Rules 10(b) and 11(b), Fed. R. App. P.

   (d) Ordering Transcripts in Criminal Cases.

   (1) Transcripts in Criminal Justice Act Cases. At the time of the
   return of a verdict of guilty or, in the case of a bench trial, an
   adjudication of guilt in a criminal case in which the defendant is
   represented by counsel appointed under the Criminal Justice Act
   (C.J.A.), counsel for the defendant shall request a transcript of
   testimony and other relevant proceedings by completing a C.J.A. Form
   No. 24 and giving it to the district judge. If the district judge
   believes an appeal is probable, the judge shall order transcribed so
   much of the proceedings as the judge believes necessary for an appeal.
   The transcript shall be filed with the clerk of the district court
   within 40 days after the return of a verdict of guilty or, in the case
   of a bench trial, the adjudication of guilt or within seven days after
   sentencing, whichever occurs later. If the district judge decides not
   to order the transcript at that time, the judge shall retain the C.J.A.
   Form No. 24 without ruling. If a notice of appeal is filed later,
   appointed counsel or counsel for a defendant allowed after trial to
   proceed on appeal in forma pauperis shall immediately notify the
   district judge of the filing of a notice of appeal and file or renew
   the request made on C.J.A. Form No. 24 for a free transcript.

   (2) Transcripts in Other Criminal Cases. Within 10 days after filing
   the notice of appeal in other criminal cases, the appellant or
   appellant's counsel shall deposit with the court reporter the estimated
   cost of the transcript ordered pursuant to Rule 10(b), Fed. R. App. P.,
   unless the district court orders that the transcript be paid for by the
   United States. A non-indigent appellant must pay a pro rata share of
   the cost of a transcript prepared at the request of an indigent
   co-defendant under the Criminal Justice Act unless the district court
   determines that fairness requires a different division of the cost.
   Failure to comply with this paragraph will be cause for dismissal of
   the appeal.

   (e) Indexing of Transcript. The transcript of proceedings to be
   transmitted to this court as part of the record on appeal (and any
   copies prepared for the use of the court or counsel in the case on
   appeal) shall be bound by the reporter in a volume or volumes, with the
   pages consecutively numbered throughout all volumes. The transcript of
   proceedings, or the first volume thereof, shall contain a suitable
   index, which shall refer to the number of the volume as well as the
   page, shall be cumulative for all volumes, and shall include the
   following information:

   (1) An alphabetical list of witnesses, giving the pages on which the
   direct and each other examination of each witness begins.

   (2) A list of exhibits by number, with a brief description of each
   exhibit indicating the nature of its contents, and with a reference to
   the pages of the transcript where each exhibit has been identified,
   offered, and received or rejected.

   (3) A list of other significant portions of the trial such as opening
   statements, arguments to the jury, and instructions, with a reference
   to the page where each begins.

   When the record includes transcripts of more than one trial or other
   distinct proceeding, and it would be cumbersome to apply this paragraph
   to all the transcripts taken together as one, the rule may be applied
   separately to each transcript of one trial or other distinct
   proceeding.

   (f) Presentence Reports. The presentence report is part of the record
   on appeal in every criminal case. The district court should transmit
   this report under seal, unless it has already been placed in the public
   record in the district court. If the report is transmitted under seal,
   the report may not be included in the appendix to the brief or the
   separate appendix under Fed. R. App. P. 30 and Circuit Rule 30. Counsel
   of record may review the presentence report at the clerk's office but
   may not review the probation officer's written comments and any other
   portion submitted in camera to the trial judge.

   (g) Effect of Omissions from the Record on Appeal. When a party's
   argument is countered by a contention of waiver for failure to raise
   the point in the trial court or before an agency, the party opposing
   the waiver contention must give the record cite where the point was
   asserted and also ensure that the record before the court of appeals
   contains the relevant document or transcript.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 11:

   RULE 11. Forwarding the Record

   (a) Appellant's Duty. An appellant filing a notice of appeal must
   comply with Rule 10(b) and must do whatever else is necessary to enable
   the clerk to assemble and forward the record. If there are multiple
   appeals from a judgment or order, the clerk must forward a single
   record.

   (b) Duties of Reporter and District Clerk.

   (1) Reporter's Duty to Prepare and File a Transcript. The reporter must
   prepare and file a transcript as follows:

   (A) Upon receiving an order for a transcript, the reporter must enter
   at the foot of the order the date of its receipt and the expected
   completion date and send a copy, so endorsed, to the circuit clerk.

   (B) If the transcript cannot be completed within 30 days of the
   reporter's receipt of the order, the reporter may request the circuit
   clerk to grant additional time to complete it. The clerk must note on
   the docket the action taken and notify the parties.

   (C) When a transcript is complete, the reporter must file it with the
   district clerk and notify the circuit clerk of the filing.

   (D) If the reporter fails to file the transcript on time, the circuit
   clerk must notify the district judge and do whatever else the court of
   appeals directs.

   (2) District Clerk's Duty to Forward. When the record is complete, the
   district clerk must number the documents constituting the record and
   send them promptly to the circuit clerk together with a list of the
   documents correspondingly numbered and reasonably identified. Unless
   directed to do so by a party or the circuit clerk, the district clerk
   will not send to the court of appeals documents of unusual bulk or
   weight, physical exhibits other than documents, or other parts of the
   record designated for omission by local rule of the court of appeals.
   If the exhibits are unusually bulky or heavy, a party must arrange with
   the clerks in advance for their transportation and receipt.

   (c) Retaining the Record Temporarily in the District Court for Use in
   Preparing the Appeal. The parties may stipulate, or the district court
   on motion may order, that the district clerk retain the record
   temporarily for the parties to use in preparing the papers on appeal.
   In that event the district clerk must certify to the circuit clerk that
   the record on appeal is complete. Upon receipt of the appellee's brief,
   or earlier if the court orders or the parties agree, the appellant must
   request the district clerk to forward the record.

   (d) [Abrogated.]

   (e) Retaining the Record by Court Order.

   (1) The court of appeals may, by order or local rule, provide that a
   certified copy of the docket entries be forwarded instead of the entire
   record. But a party may at any time during the appeal request that
   designated parts of the record be forwarded.

   (2) The district court may order the record or some part of it retained
   if the court needs it while the appeal is pending, subject, however, to
   call by the court of appeals.

   (3) If part or all of the record is ordered retained, the district
   clerk must send to the court of appeals a copy of the order and the
   docket entries together with the parts of the original record allowed
   by the district court and copies of any parts of the record designated
   by the parties.

   (f) Retaining Parts of the Record in the District Court by Stipulation
   of the Parties. The parties may agree by written stipulation filed in
   the district court that designated parts of the record be retained in
   the district court subject to call by the court of appeals or request
   by a party. The parts of the record so designated remain a part of the
   record on appeal.

   (g) Record for a Preliminary Motion in the Court of Appeals. If, before
   the record is forwarded, a party makes any of the following motions in
   the court of appeals:

   for dismissal;

   for release;

   for a stay pending appeal;

   for additional security on the bond on appeal or on a supersedeas bond;
   or

   for any other intermediate order, the district clerk must send the
   court of appeals any parts of the record designated by any party.

   CIRCUIT RULE 11. Record on Appeal

   (a) Record Transmission. Appellate records from the Eastern Division of
   the Northern District of Illinois are to be transmitted to the court of
   appeals when prepared. Prepared appellate records from all other courts
   in the circuit are to be temporarily retained by the district court
   clerk's office pursuant to Rule 11(c), Fed. R. App. P. Rule 11(c)
   certification is not required. After the appeal is ready for scheduling
   for oral argument or submission, the clerk of the court of appeals will
   notify the district court clerk to transmit the record to the court of
   appeals. The parties may agree or the court of appeals may order that
   the record be sent to the clerk of the court of appeals at an earlier
   time. But in no event shall the clerk of the district court transmit
   bulky items, currency, securities, liquids, drugs, weapons, or similar
   items without a specific order of this court.

   (b) Transcript and Other Supplemental Transmissions. When trial or
   hearing transcripts, or other parts of the record, are filed with the
   clerk of the district court (or exhibits that have been retained in the
   district court for use in preparation of the transcript are returned to
   the clerk) after initial transmission of the record, they shall be
   immediately transmitted to this court and filed as a supplemental
   record without the requirement of this court's order. This immediate
   transmission meets the requirements of Rule 11(b), Fed. R. App. P.,
   that the court reporter notify the clerk of the court of appeals that
   the transcript has been filed with the clerk of the district court.

   (c) Extension of Time.

   (1) Requests for Extension to be Addressed to Court of Appeals. All
   requests for extension of time for filing the record or parts thereof
   shall be addressed to the court of appeals.

   (2) Extension of Time for Preparation of Transcript. Any request by a
   court reporter for an extension of time longer than 30 days from the
   date the transcript was first ordered must be filed with the clerk of
   this court on a form prescribed by the court. The request must include
   the date the transcript was ordered, the reasons for both that request,
   and any previous requests for extensions of time, and a certificate
   that all parties or their counsel have been sent a copy of the request.
   If the request is for an extension of time longer than 60 days from the
   date the transcript was first ordered, it must include a statement from
   the district judge who tried the case or the chief judge of the
   district court that the request has been brought to that judge's
   attention and that steps are being taken to insure that all ordered
   transcripts will be promptly prepared.

   (d) Withdrawal of Record. During the time allowed for the preparation
   and filing of a brief, an attorney for a party or a party acting pro se
   may withdraw the record upon giving a receipt to the clerk who has
   physical custody of the record. Once a panel of judges is assigned, a
   record may not be withdrawn without an order of the court. Original
   exhibits may not be withdrawn but may be examined only in the clerk's
   office. The party who has withdrawn the record may not file a brief or
   petition for rehearing until the record has been returned to the
   clerk's office from which it was withdrawn. Except as provided above,
   the record shall not be taken from a clerk's office without leave of
   this court on written motion. Failure of a party to return the record
   to the clerk may be treated as contempt of this court. When the party
   withdrawing the record is incarcerated, the clerk who has physical
   custody of the record, on order of this court, will send the record to
   the warden of the institution with the request that the record be made
   available to the party under supervised conditions and be returned to
   the respective clerk before a specified date.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 12:

   RULE 12. Docketing the Appeal; Filing a

   Representation Statement; Filing the Record

   (a) Docketing the Appeal. Upon receiving the copy of the notice of
   appeal and the docket entries from the district clerk under Rule 3(d),
   the circuit clerk must docket the appeal under the title of the
   district-court action and must identify the appellant, adding the
   appellant's name if necessary.

   (b) Filing a Representation Statement. Unless the court of appeals
   designates another time, the attorney who filed the notice of appeal
   must, within 10 days after filing the notice, file a statement with the
   circuit clerk naming the parties that the attorney represents on
   appeal.

   (c) Filing the Record, Partial Record, or Certificate. Upon receiving
   the record, partial record, or district clerk's certificate as provided
   in Rule 11, the circuit clerk must file it and immediately notify all
   parties of the filing date.

   CIRCUIT RULE 12. Docketing the Appeal

   (a) Docketing. The clerk will notify counsel and parties acting pro se
   of the date the appeal is docketed.

   (b) Caption. The parties on appeal shall be designated in the title of
   the cause in court as they appeared in the district court, with the
   addition of identification of appellant and appellee, for example, John
   Smith, Plaintiff-Appellee v. William Jones, Defendant-Appellant.
   Actions seeking habeas corpus shall be designated "Petitioner v.
   Custodian" and not "United States ex rel. Petitioner v. Custodian."

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 13:

   RULE 13. Review of a Decision of the Tax Court

   (a) How Obtained; Time for Filing Notice of Appeal.

   (1) Review of a decision of the United States Tax Court is commenced by
   filing a notice of appeal with the Tax Court clerk within 90 days after
   the entry of the Tax Court's decision. At the time of filing, the
   appellant must furnish the clerk with enough copies of the notice to
   enable the clerk to comply with Rule 3(d). If one party files a timely
   notice of appeal, any other party may file a notice of appeal within
   120 days after the Tax Court's decision is entered.

   (2) If, under Tax Court rules, a party makes a timely motion to vacate
   or revise the Tax Court's decision, the time to file a notice of appeal
   runs from the entry of the order disposing of the motion or from the
   entry of a new decision, whichever is later.

   (b) Notice of Appeal; How Filed. The notice of appeal may be filed
   either at the Tax Court clerk's office in the District of Columbia or
   by mail addressed to the clerk. If sent by mail the notice is
   considered filed on the postmark date, subject to § 7502 of the
   Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the applicable regulations.

   (c) Contents of the Notice of Appeal; Service; Effect of Filing and
   Service. Rule 3 prescribes the contents of a notice of appeal, the
   manner of service, and the effect of its filing and service. Form 2 in
   the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a notice of appeal.

   (d) The Record on Appeal; Forwarding; Filing.

   (1) An appeal from the Tax Court is governed by the parts of Rules 10,
   11, and 12 regarding the record on appeal from a district court, the
   time and manner of forwarding and filing, and the docketing in the
   court of appeals. References in those rules and in Rule 3 to the
   district court and district clerk are to be read as referring to the
   Tax Court and its clerk.

   (2) If an appeal from a Tax Court decision is taken to more than one
   court of appeals, the original record must be sent to the court named
   in the first notice of appeal filed. In an appeal to any other court of
   appeals, the appellant must apply to that other court to make provision
   for the record.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 14:

   RULE 14. Applicability of Other Rules to the Review of a Tax Court
   Decision

   All provisions of these rules, except Rules 4-9, 15-20, and 22-23,
   apply to the review of a Tax Court decision.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 15:

   RULE 15. Review or Enforcement of an Agency Order--How Obtained;
   Intervention

   (a) Petition for Review; Joint Petition.

   (1) Review of an agency order is commenced by filing, within the time
   prescribed by law, a petition for review with the clerk of a court of
   appeals authorized to review the agency order. If their interests make
   joinder practicable, two or more persons may join in a petition to the
   same court to review the same order.

   (2) The petition must:

   (A) name each party seeking review either in the caption or the body of
   the petition-using such terms as "et al.," "petitioners," or
   "respondents" does not effectively name the parties;

   (B) name the agency as a respondent (even though not named in the
   petition, the United States is a respondent if required by statute);
   and

   (C) specify the order or part thereof to be reviewed.

   (3) Form 3 in the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a petition
   for review.

   (4) In this rule "agency" includes an agency, board, commission, or
   officer; "petition for review" includes a petition to enjoin, suspend,
   modify, or otherwise review, or a notice of appeal, whichever form is
   indicated by the applicable statute.

   (b) Application or Cross-Application to Enforce an Order; Answer;
   Default.

   (1) An application to enforce an agency order must be filed with the
   clerk of a court of appeals authorized to enforce the order. If a
   petition is filed to review an agency order that the court may enforce,
   a party opposing the petition may file a cross-application for
   enforcement.

   (2) Within 20 days after the application for enforcement is filed, the
   respondent must serve on the applicant an answer to the application and
   file it with the clerk. If the respondent fails to answer in time, the
   court will enter judgment for the relief requested.

   (3) The application must contain a concise statement of the proceedings
   in which the order was entered, the facts upon which venue is based,
   and the relief requested.

   (c) Service of the Petition or Application. The circuit clerk must
   serve a copy of the petition for review, or an application or
   cross-application to enforce an agency order, on each respondent as
   prescribed by Rule 3(d), unless a different manner of service is
   prescribed by statute. At the time of filing, the petitioner must:

   (1) serve, or have served, a copy on each party admitted to participate
   in the agency proceedings, except for the respondents;

   (2) file with the clerk a list of those so served; and

   (3) give the clerk enough copies of the petition or application to
   serve each respondent.

   (d) Intervention. Unless a statute provides another method, a person
   who wants to intervene in a proceeding under this rule must file a
   motion for leave to intervene with the circuit clerk and serve a copy
   on all parties. The motion-or other notice of intervention authorized
   by statute-must be filed within 30 days after the petition for review
   is filed and must contain a concise statement of the interest of the
   moving party and the grounds for intervention.

   (e) Payment of Fees. When filing any separate or joint petition for
   review in a court of appeals, the petitioner must pay the circuit clerk
   all required fees.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 15.1:

   RULE 15.1. Briefs and Oral Argument in a National Labor Relations Board
   Proceeding

   In either an enforcement or a review proceeding, a party adverse to the
   National Labor Relations Board proceeds first on briefing and at oral
   argument, unless the court orders otherwise.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 16:

   RULE 16. The Record on Review or Enforcement

   (a) Composition of the Record. The record on review or enforcement of
   an agency order consists of:

   (1) the order involved;

   (2) any findings or report on which it is based; and

   (3) the pleadings, evidence, and other parts of the proceedings before
   the agency.

   (b) Omissions From or Misstatements in the Record. The parties may at
   any time, by stipulation, supply any omission from the record or
   correct a misstatement, or the court may so direct. If necessary, the
   court may direct that a supplemental record be prepared and filed.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 17:

   RULE 17. Filing the Record

   (a) Agency to File; Time for Filing; Notice of Filing. The agency must
   file the record with the circuit clerk within 40 days after being
   served with a petition for review, unless the statute authorizing
   review provides otherwise, or within 40 days after it files an
   application for enforcement unless the respondent fails to answer or
   the court orders otherwise. The court may shorten or extend the time to
   file the record. The clerk must notify all parties of the date when the
   record is filed.

   (b) Filing-What Constitutes.

   (1) The agency must file:

   (A) the original or a certified copy of the entire record or parts
   designated by the parties; or

   (B) a certified list adequately describing all documents, transcripts
   of testimony, exhibits, and other material constituting the record, or
   describing those parts designated by the parties.

   (2) The parties may stipulate in writing that no record or certified
   list be filed. The date when the stipulation is filed with the circuit
   clerk is treated as the date when the record is filed.

   (3) The agency must retain any portion of the record not filed with the
   clerk. All parts of the record retained by the agency are a part of the
   record on review for all purposes and, if the court or a party so
   requests, must be sent to the court regardless of any prior
   stipulation.

   Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 18:

   RULE 18. Stay Pending Review

   (a) Motion for a Stay.
