http://www-pao.ksc.nasa.gov/kscpao/visit/welcome.htm


   John F. Kennedy Space Center - Center Director's Welcome

   KSC Home Page Site Search FAQ Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement Headlines

                             LAUNCHING A VISION

   Kennedy Space Center (KSC) is America's Gateway to the Universe --
   Leading the World in Preparing and Launching Missions around the Earth
   and Beyond...


   KSC is like no place you have ever visited. Learn more about Alligators
   and Rocket Ships.

                              KSC Annual Report






















   Roy Bridges, Center Director Welcome to the John F. Kennedy Space
   Center (KSC), NASA’s Spaceport Technology Center. It is from KSC that
   we sent astronauts to the moon and someday will send them to Mars and
   beyond.

   These days we are launching astronauts into low Earth orbit aboard the
   Space Shuttle to build the new International Space Station and perform
   experiments to improve our life on Earth.

     KSC is the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
     center of excellence for launch and payload processing systems as
     well as the lead center for acquisition and management of expendable
     launch vehicle services and payload carriers.

     Located at the Cape Canaveral Spaceport in Florida, we handle the
     checkout, launch and landing of the Space Shuttle and its payloads.
     Because KSC is the starting point of all U.S. human space flights,
     we continue to draw worldwide attention.

    Recent Shuttle flights have resulted in:
      * Initial construction and outfitting of the International Space
        Station.
      * Orbiting the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
      * Repair and upgrade the Hubble Space Telescope.
      * Mapping of the surface of the Earth through high resolution radar
        topography.

     In addition to supporting manned missions, we also coordinate all
     launches of NASA payloads on expendable launch vehicles, whether
     those launches take place next door at Cape Canaveral Air Force
     Station or at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California or elsewhere.
     The ELV program is launching a growing number of satellites and
     probes important in monitoring the weather and other conditions on
     Earth, as well as investigating planets and other heavenly bodies,
     such as asteroids and comets.

   Recent Expendable Launch Vehicles payloads launched:
     * A weather-monitoring satellite to be used by both NASA and the
       National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
     * A satellite that will monitor ultraviolet light to investigate the
       forces and process involved in the evolution of the galaxies, stars
       and planetary systems.
     * A satellite that will use microwave radar to measure the speed and
       direction of winds near the ocean surface.
     * A spacecraft that will gather material from comets and bring it
       back for study.

     These NASA initiatives and others in our 40-plus-year history have
     not only contributed to our scientific knowledge, but have generated
     and continue to generate spin-off technology.  The list of spin-off
     technologies developed at KSC and other NASA centers across the
     country goes on and on.

              Recent Spin-off Technologies include:

             * Extended weather forecasting
             * Global communications
             * Fire retardant materials
             * Cordless power tools
             * Space lubricants

                                             * Smoke detectors
                                             * Pacemakers
                                             * Computer bar-coding
                                             * Disposable diapers

     Because of the expertise we have built over 40 years here at KSC, we
     are rapidly emerging as a world-class Spaceport Technology Center.
     We have much to offer in the development of future launch vehicles
     and other spaceports across the globe, and eventually throughout the
     galaxy.

     As the nation’s premier launch site, we will be able to offer a wide
     variety of space transportation systems in the future. One day,
     cruise ships won’t be the only mass transportation leaving Cape
     Canaveral. People will come here not only to take a cruise, but to
     take a space vehicle to a hotel in low Earth orbit. Talk about a
     view!

     As you navigate this site, I hope you will learn more than you ever
     thought possible about our exciting space program and how it is
     contributing to your life and the lives of people across the world.

     Enjoy your cyberspace visit and follow along with us as we build the
     space station and expand man's knowledge of the universe.
     [bridgesig.gif]
     Roy D. Bridges, Jr.

   Page Last Revised

                         Page & Curator Information
   08/08/01

      Curator: Kay Grinter (kay.grinter-1@ksc.nasa.gov) / InDyne, Inc.
                Web Development:  JBOSC Web Development Team
      A service of the NASA/Kennedy Space Center, Roy Bridges, Director
