http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/eharchive/01/may/deforestation.html


                        Home, Feedback, Search Links
                        Main Sections Navigation Bar
    Where you are:   For News Media  :   EOS Highlights Archive  :   Year
                      2001  :   May  :   Deforestation
           Earth Observering System Project Science Office Banner

   May 30, 2001

   Better Monitoring of National and Global Deforestation Possible with
   Satellites
   Envelope Icon Tell a friend about this press release

   COLLEGE PARK, MD Ð Estimates of deforestation that are significantly
   better than those currently used by the United Nations can be developed
   using data from NASAÕs new Earth Observing System Terra satellite and a
   University of Maryland-developed method for mapping tree cover, say
   researchers in the Department of Geography and the Global Land Cover
   Facility at the university.

   The researchers will discuss images and quantitative measures they have
   derived of the amount and distribution of forests in North America and
   some other areas of the world on Wednesday, May 30, at the American
   Geophysical Union's spring meeting in Boston. These forest measures
   were produced by analyzing data from TerraÕs MODIS (Moderate Resolution
   Imaging Spectroradiometer) instrument using MarylandÕs continuous
   fields method for tree cover mapping.

   "It is essential that we know accurately how much forest cover there is
   on our planet to help us conserve what is left and to make the best use
   of forest resources," said John Townshend, a professor in the
   universityÕs department of geography and the UM Institute for Advanced
   Computer Studies. "The FAO [UN Food and Agriculture Organization] has
   recently made an enormous effort to derive statistics for forest cover
   for the world based on reports from the countries themselves. But these
   figures usually are simply not comparable from country to country, and
   it is abundantly clear that for many countries the FAO estimates are
   highly inaccurate."

   The FAO released a controversial report earlier this year that said
   global rates of forest loss decreased during the 1990s. However, many
   scientists and environmentalists have criticized the methods the FAO
   used in assessing the extent of the worldÕs forestation and its change
   over time. Maryland researchers say the FAO analysis has many inherent
   scientific and political problems because of its use of a number of
   different definitions of what constitutes a forest. These definitions
   were based on both intended land use and land cover estimates. One
   result of this classification approach was that in some cases areas
   from which all the trees had been harvested were still counted by the
   FAO as forest because that was the landÕs "intended use."

   In addition the latest FAO report and its two earlier ones aren't
   comparable because all three use different methodologies. Thus they are
   of relatively little use in creating a long-term record of global
   changes in forest cover.

   "Our work and that of many other scientists show that the way forward
   to more useful estimates of forest cover lies with the use of remote
   imaging data," said Ruth DeFries, an associate professor in the
   department of geography and the university's Earth System Science
   Interdisciplinary Center. "Remote sensing offers a globally repeatable
   and verifiable methodology which doesn't have the problems of bias that
   are inherent when forest estimates are provided by various agencies or
   institutions within each country."

   DeFries said the advantages of this approach can be seen in the
   university's work with the MODIS instrument on NASAÕs Terra satellite.
   Using data from this instrument and the continuous field method she
   co-developed, DeFries and other Maryland researchers have produced a
   series of new information products such as one that shows the percent
   tree cover over the conterminous United States at a spatial resolution
   of 250m. (For further information on these products see
   http://glcf.umiacs.umd.edu.)

   DeFries noted that their latest work with the MODIS instrument builds
   on their previous work using 1 km resolution data from the AVHRR, a
   polar orbiting satellite of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration that has been in orbit for two decades. Landsat 7 Ð
   whose science team is led by Maryland department of geography chair
   Samuel Goward Ð is another important satellite in the current fleet of
   spacecraft for remote sensing of land cover. According to DeFries these
   satellites, together with others planned as part of NASA's Earth
   Observing System, will enable scientists to identify land cover change
   and to more accurately determine forest extent in areas with fragmented
   forests.

   John Townshend, Matthew Hansen, Ruth DeFries, Rob Sohlberg, Arthur
   Desch and Ben White: "Monitoring the Extent of Forests on National to
   Global Scales" (B31B-08), May 30 at 10:40 a.m.

   Contact: Lee Tune
   University of Maryland
   (301) 405-4679
   ltune@accmail.umd.edu

      Home Icon HOME      Search Icon SEARCH      Feedback Icon FEEDBACK
