http://pds.jpl.nasa.gov/cn-homepage.html

   PDS Logo Planetary Data System
   Home Scientists Public Data Producers Educators Relateed Sites Help

   PDS Central Node

      The Central Node of the Planetary Data System (PDS), located at the Jet
      Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), Pasadena, California, constitutes the
      management center of the PDS. Staff at the Central Node are involved in
      the following activities:

   Project Management

      The PDS Project Management resides at the Central Node. The management
      is responsible for coordination across all nodes, represents PDS to
      NASA Headquarters and externally, leads evolution and budget planning,
      and ensures funding to all nodes. PDS contracts, project schedules and
      status reports, and financial accounts are maintained as part of this
      management activity.

   Data Product Support

      Central Node personnel work with scientists from active and past
      planetary missions, as well as with members of the appropriate
      Discipline Nodes, and the National Space Science Data Center (NSSDC),
      to coordinate the archive and distribution of planetary science data.
      Active missions and data restorations supported by the Central Node
      staff include Magellan, Clementine, Galileo, Voyager, International
      Halley Watch, and Viking. The Central Node staff is also involved in
      planning activities with future missions such as Cassini, Mars Global
      Surveyor, and Mars Pathfinder.

      The Central Node staff lead mission interface activities across all
      nodes and instruments. They represent PDS at mission archive meetings,
      review Project Data Management Plans, train mission personnel in PDS
      standards, and maintain archive status.

      The Central Node staff support data product design, archive volume
      production, and data validation. They coordinate CD-ROM vendor
      mastering/media procurement for the PDS, and lead the PDS in the
      coordination of legal/licensing approvals for PDS products.

   Central Node System Operations

      Central Node coordinates the ordering and distribution of published
      data products between missions, scientists, Discipline Nodes and the
      National Space Science Data Center (NSSDC). Data distribution may be by
      way of CD-ROM, CD-Write Once, tape, or electronic transfer.

      The Central Node maintains the PDS World Wide Web Homepage and is
      responsible for system-wide configuration management. Staff members
      maintain the PDS Data Set Catalog, a repository of information about
      planetary science data sets, including information about planetary
      missions, spacecraft and earth-based instrument hosts, and instruments.
      This catalog provides an overview of the entire PDS collection.

      Staff members lead the evolution of PDS standards. They are responsible
      for production and distribution of the PDS Standards Reference,
      Planetary Science Data Dictionary, and the PDS Data Preparation
      Workbook. In addition to hardcopy versions, the PDS also makes these
      documents available through the World Wide Web.

      Central Node staff members coordinate the development of general
      purpose tools that support the design and validation of data products
      and software libraries that support access to PDS labelled data. They
      maintain the PDS Software Inventory, a listing of software available
      within the planetary science community that is useful with PDS
      products.

   Support to Discipline Node Operations

      The Central Node coordinates PDS as a system, provides Discipline Nodes
      with CD-ROM distribution support, provides World Wide Web guidelines,
      and advanced technology lessons.

      Staff at the Central Node also participate in a variety of activities
      to help create catalogs for individual data sets archived at the
      Discipline Nodes. Activities range from review of already-developed
      systems to design, development, prototyping, and/or population of new
      catalogs.

                                [3dot_line.gif]

   Home  |  Scientists  |  Public  |  Data Producers  |  Educators  |
   Related Sites  |  Help

   NODES Atmospheres Geosciences Imaging NAIF PPI Rings Small Bodies
