http://www.cc.nih.gov/contact/index.html

              NIH Clinical Center National Institutes of Health

     Home [button_pubpat1.gif] Professionals/Scientists Staff Contact Us
     Site Map Search

                    On the Frontline of Medical Discovery

   Contact Us
   [level2vertrule.gif]

   Medical Information
   It is not the intention of NIH to provide specific medical advice, but
   rather to provide users with information to better understand their
   health and their diagnosed disorders. Specific medical advice will not
   be provided, and NIH urges you to consult with a qualified physician
   for diagnosis and for answers to your personal questions.

   Requesting Information
   If you have questions about the NIH Clinical Center or the information
   contained on this web site, please contact Clinical Center
   Communications:


              E-mail: OCCC@cc.nih.gov
              Phone:  301-496-2563
              Fax:    301-402-2984
              Write:  6100 Executive Blvd., Suite 3C01 MSC 7511
                      Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7511

   If you need information on participating in clinical research at the
   NIH Clinical Center, please contact the Patient Recruitment and Public
   Liaison Office:


   E-mail:

           prpl@mail.cc.nih.gov
   Phone:

           1-800-411-1222
   Fax:

           301-480-9793
   Write:

           Patient Recruitment, Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center, National
           Institutes of Health
           Bethesda, Maryland 20892-2655

   E-mailed inquiries/requests
   E-mail sent to the Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center, National
   Institutes of Health may be forwarded to appropriate NIH or outside
   experts for response. We do not collect your name and e-mail address
   for any purpose other than to respond to your query. Nevertheless,
   email is not necessarily secure against interception. If your
   communication contains sensitive or personal information, you may want
   to send it by postal mail. This statement applies to the Warren Grant
   Magnuson Clinical Center home page only. Inquiries may be mailed to:

     Clinical Center Communications
     Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center
     National Institutes of Helath
     6100 Executive Blvd., Suite 3C01 MSC 7511
     Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7511.

   Privacy
   The NIH Clinical Center uses certain information from visitors to its
   web site to improve the online services we provide. Only the following
   information is collected from visitors to the web site: The name of the
   domain from which you access our site; the date and time you access our
   site; the type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
   the pages visited; and, if you linked to our website from another
   website, the address of that site.

   Copyright Status
   Most of the information at this site is in the public domain. Unless
   stated otherwise, documents and files on NIH web servers can be freely
   downloaded and reproduced. The NIH sponsors most documents on this
   server; however, you may encounter documents sponsored along with
   private companies and other organizations. Other parties may retain all
   rights to publish or reproduce these documents or to allow others to do
   so. Some documents available from this server may be protected under
   the U. S. and foreign Copyright laws. Permission to reproduce these
   documents may be required.

   Disclaimer of Endorsement
   NIH does not endorse or recommend any commercial products, processes,
   or services. The views and opinions of authors expressed on NIH
   websites do not necessarily state or reflect those of the U.S.
   Government, and they may not be used for advertising or product
   endorsement purposes.

   External Links
   Some NIH sites may provide links to other Internet sites only for the
   convenience of World Wide Web users. NIH is not responsible for the
   availability or content of these external sites, nor does NIH endorse,
   warrant or guarantee the products, services or information described or
   offered at these other Internet sites. Disclaimer of Liability For
   documents available from this server, the U.S. Government does not
   warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the
   accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
   product, or process disclosed.

   last update: 5/2001


   Home | Public/Patients | Professionals/Scientists | Staff | Contact Us
                            | Site Map | Search
              For more information about the Clinical Center,
      e-mail occc@cc.nih.gov, or call Clinical Center Communications,
                               301-496-2563.
                   Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center
                       National Institutes of Health
                       Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7511
