http://tech-net.sba.gov/index2.html

   This Script Checks for your Browser version This Script loads the
   images for the rollover

   Skip to the main content.
   To SBA Home Page
   TECH-Net Home Page
   What is Tech-Net
   How To Use Tech-Net
   Update Profiles
   Search Database
   Register
   Resources
   Technology Opportunities
   ACE-Net
   PRO-Net
      Send Comments



                            WHAT IS TECH-Net?

                                                              Tech-Net
                                                    TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES NETWORK

                            Welcome to Tech-Net!
   Tech-Net is an electronic gateway of technology information and
   resources for and about small high tech businesses. It is a search
   engine for researchers, scientists, state, federal and local government
   officials, a marketing tool for small firms and a potential "link" to
   investment opportunities for investors and other sources of capital.

   A Search Engine

   Tech-Net is an Internet-based database of information containing Small
   Business Innovation Research (SBIR) awards, Small Business Technology
   Transfer (STTR) awards, Advanced Technology Program (ATP) awards, and
   Manufacturing Extension Partners (MEP) centers. It is a free service
   for those seeking small business partners, small business contractors
   and subcontractors, leading edge technology research, research partners
   (small businesses, universities, federal labs and non-profit
   organizations), manufacturing centers and investment opportunities.

   In addition to searching for technology partnerships, licensing and
   investment opportunities in Tech-Net, SBA's Pro-Net allows searches for
   small business procurement opportunities. Pro-Net is an electronic
   gateway of procurement information - for and about small businesses. It
   is a search engine for contracting officers, a marketing tool for small
   firms and a "link" to procurement opportunities for small businesses
   seeking federal, state and private contracts.

   SBA uses a single source client data base for both Pro-Net and
   Tech-Net. Accordingly, a small business need only register on one
   system to be included in both.

   Businesses profiled on the Tech-Net system can be searched by a variety
   of data elements such as SIC; key words; location; company name,
   ownership race and gender; technology code; contract award year, etc.

   A Marketing Tool

   Business profiles in the Tech-Net system include data from the SBA's
   SBIR/STTR database, the Department of Commerce's ATP database, and the
   MEP list of manufacturing centers, plus additional business and
   marketing information on individual firms. Businesses on the system
   will be responsible for updating their profiles and the SBA will
   maintain the accuracy of the awards information.

   Profiles are structured like executive business summaries, with
   specific data fields that are user-friendly and designed to meet the
   needs of researchers, contracting officers, investors and other
   potential users.

   Profiles provide small businesses an opportunity expand on their
   "technology market-niche" promoting goods and technical services
   produced by their business. Companies with "home-pages" can link their
   web site to their Tech-Net profile, creating a very powerful marketing
   tool.

   A Link to Procurement Opportunities

   As an electronic gateway, Tech-Net provides access and is linked to
   federal agency SBIR/STTR solicitations, ATP solicitations and other
   technology procurement opportunities.

   The system is also linked to technology sources of information,
   assistance and training.

   The Tech-Net project is a cooperative effort among SBA's Offices of
   Technology, Advocacy, the Chief Information Officer, the National
   Institute of Standards and Technology's Advanced Technology Program and
   the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program.

                           *Last Modified: 5-29-00

                                | Text Only |
