http://www.ofa.noaa.gov/~fsd/FSD-buscrd.htm


             NOAA RDC Home Page Printing & Publications Service


              [buscrddocseal.gif] NOAA Employee [noaaemb3.jpg]

            Business Cards

                                   a service provided by the

            NOAA Facilities Office, Facilities Services Division


   [news.gif]  Interested in reducing the cost of purchasing business
   cards? [news.gif]
     If your office places multiple orders for business cards and uses the
   same appropriation number, and orders the same quantities for all
   orders placed, you can realize a substantial savings of $7.50 per
   individual order.  Additional savings will be realized if the printer
   can make bulk shipment of printed cards to a single NOAA office.

   Questions regarding the purchase of business cards may be directed to
   Diana.M.Cleaver or Grace.G.Griesbauer, (301) 713-2220.

   The Facilities Services Division has received approval to order
   business cards using appropriated funds.   A contract has been
   established with the Government Printing Office (GPO) for this purpose.

   You may place orders immediately by completing the lower half of GPO
   Print Order Form 2511 (modified) and faxing it to (301) 713-2303 or
   mailing it to:

                    The Printing and Reprographics Branch
                          Room 8651, OFA721, SSMC4
                             1305 East-West Hwy.
                        Silver Spring, MD 20910-3282

   This form allows you to choose either 250 or 500 cards from one of  two
   formats (CARD A and CARD B) printed in 2-color flat ink.  Orders will
   normally be completed within five (5) workdays after receipt by the
   printer.

   All forms submitted must be typed and bear the signature of the Senior
   Executive Service (SES) Director, or designee within a NOAA Line, Staff
   or Program office.  This individual will serve as approving official
   for those NOAA employees within his/her organization authorized to use
   this program.  To qualify for this program, employees should have a
   real and frequent need for the use of a business card during the course
   of transacting business on the behalf of NOAA.

   If you do not have the Adobe Acrobat 4.0 reader already installed on
   your PC, download and install the free software from Adobe's web site
   prior to clicking on the business card application form:  [getacro.gif]

               Policy and Procedures GPO Print Order Form 2511
                                     (modified) [pdf.gif]

   Please contact Diana Cleaver or Grace Griesbauer at (301) 713-2220 if
   you have any questions regarding this program or email
   Diana.M.Cleaver@noaa.gov or  Grace.G.Griesbauer@noaa.gov
