http://www.msnd.uscourts.gov/ayersproposal.pdf

   IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
   MISSISSIPPI GREENVILLE DIVISION JAKE AYERS, JR., ET AL. PLAINTIFFS
   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA PLAINTIFF-INTERVENOR V. NO. 4:75CV009-B-D
   RONNIE MUSGROVE, GOVERNOR, STATE OF MISSISSIPPI, BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
   STATE INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING, ET AL., DEFENDANTS ORDER This
   cause comes before the court on the proposed settlement [Proposal]
   filed on April 23, 2001. The court conducted the required Fairness
   Hearing in accordance with Rule 23(e) of the Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure on September 4-6, 2001, and heard testimony from proponents
   of and objectors to the Proposal. The court is now ready to rule on the
   issue in the following particulars. I. The plaintiffs in this case are
   a class of citizens comprised of all black citizens residing in
   Mississippi, whether students, former students, parents, employees, or
   taxpayers, who have been, are, or will be discriminated against on
   account of race in receiving equal educational opportunity . . . in the
   universities operated by [the] Board of Trustees [of State Institutions
   of Higher Learning]1. See Order of September 17, 1975 (emphasis added).
   1Hereinafter referred to as IHL Board. The complaint of these
   plaintiffs that was filed in this case states in part: Plaintiffs bring
   this cause on their own behalf and on behalf of all others similarly
   situated, said class being more particularly described as all black
   persons who have been, are or will be subjected to racial
   discrimination . . . in the provision of equal educational opportunity
   . . . . See Amended Complaint filed April 7, 1975 (emphasis added).
   Following a lengthy trial in 1987, the court found that there were no
   longer any State policies which prevented African-American students
   from attending the university of their choice in this State and the
   case was dismissed. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit en banc
   affirmed this court's decision, but the Supreme Court held that while
   there may have been no State policies at the time of the ruling which
   had the intent of discriminating against the plaintiffs, a different
   standard of law should be used in determining whether desegregation had
   been fully implemented in the State's higher education system. The
   Supreme Court held that neutrality in the State's policies was not
   enough and the State must affirmatively take action to eradicate any
   policies traceable to the de jure system which may still be in force
   and have discriminatory effects "to the extent practicable and
   consistent with sound educational practices." United States v. Fordice,
   505 U.S. 717, 729, 731, 743, 120 L. Ed. 2d 575, 593-94, 595, 602 (1992)
   (emphasis added). To address the new standards handed down by the
   Supreme Court, this court held a second trial in 1994 and concluded,
   among other things, that the admissions requirements for the eight
   universities were indeed a remnant of de jure segregation in that the
   historically white institutions [HWI's] had higher admissions standards
   than the historically black institutions [HBI's], and since
   statistically the African-American students made lower scores on their
   2 admissions test scores, this State policy had the effect of
   channeling the African-American students to the HBI's.2 As a result of
   the 1994 trial, this court issued a remedial decree [Court Plan], which
   changed the admissions standards so that admissions are now based on a
   combination of factors, including high school grades and ACT scores and
   a sliding scale of both, rather than only ACT scores, as in the past.
   In addition, the court established a unified admissions requirement for
   all eight universities so that if a student is qualified to go to one
   university in the State, he or she is qualified to go to each of the
   other universities in the State. Thus, there was no longer a
   "channeling effect" and no longer, in the court's opinion, a valid
   claim that opportunities to attend a university of one's choice would
   be denied because of race. Since the implementation of the new
   admissions standards, more African-American students are attending the
   HWI's than ever before.3 The Court Plan also addressed the problem of
   attempting to desegregate the three HBI's. It was argued by the
   plaintiffs at the trial and their expert witnesses so testified that in
   order for the HBI's to attract white students, there must be new
   courses offered at the HBI's which are attractive to white students,
   and which are not duplicated at the white universities. The theory
   presented to the court by the plaintiffs was that, for example, if an
   engineering course were instituted at Jackson State University [JSU],
   located in a densely populated area of the State, white students
   interested in engineering, who live nearer JSU than other institutions
   offering engineering, may choose to attend JSU. Based on the theory
   presented by the plaintiffs and their 2It was pointed out by this
   court's previous decisions that those lower admissions requirements at
   the HBI's were instituted by the IHL Board at the specific request of
   the HBI presidents. 3IHL Board enrollment data for 1996-2000 furnished
   to the court. 3 witnesses, the court issued the Court Plan calling for
   the creation of certain new course offerings at JSU, including a new
   engineering school and new graduate courses in business and other
   fields. The Supreme Court mandated and this court has restated that the
   additional enhancements at JSU as a result of court orders are not for
   the purpose of merely upgrading black colleges as publicly financed
   enclaves for African-Americans to attend, but are for the purpose of
   desegregation, that is, to attract white students to these
   institutions. Whether these course offerings will accomplish what the
   plaintiffs claim they will accomplish is yet to be seen. The court did
   state in its previous orders that once the new courses are in place, it
   is not necessary that they attract a substantial number of white
   students to be in compliance with the law. Neither the State nor a
   court can compel college students to attend any particular university.
   As long as the remnants of de jure segregation have been eradicated
   and by the court's decree and the affirmance of the Court of Appeals,
   they have been at JSU  the constitutional requirements have been met.
   If, in the future, the new courses do not accomplish the goal advocated
   by the plaintiffs and are not self-supporting, as the court has
   previously stated, the courses' continuation can be reconsidered. The
   court has not finished a plan for Alcorn State University [ASU] and
   Mississippi Valley State University [MVSU] at this time. The IHL Board
   was ordered by this court and by the Court of Appeals in 1997 to
   present a plan to the court for consideration but, as yet, the court
   has not received a plan to attract white students to ASU and MVSU. The
   court may have been overly lenient in not setting earlier deadlines for
   the Board, but with JSU's plan already completed and JSU having more
   students than ASU and MVSU combined, and the uniform 4 admissions
   standards already in place at all universities, it would appear that
   the majority of the work necessary to meet constitutional requirements
   for the overall plan has been accomplished. II. In the process of the
   court implementing the court-ordered plan to end this case as far as
   court-ordered remedies are concerned, the Governor of the State of
   Mississippi, the Attorney General and United States Congressman Bennie
   Thompson announced that they were beginning negotiations to "settle the
   Ayers case." The end result of those negotiations among the above-
   named officials, the attorneys for the United States Department of
   Justice and the IHL Board was that the further implementation by the
   court of the Court Plan then in progress was suspended and the Proposal
   herein under consideration was submitted to the court for approval or
   rejection. III. As stated heretofore, the court has had several
   hearings and conferences concerning the Proposal. There were numerous
   witnesses and written objections opposing it, and advocates in favor of
   the Proposal have presented numerous arguments in its favor. If the
   court rejects the Proposal, it will mean the Court Plan will continue
   to be implemented. If the court accepts the Proposal, it will mean the
   plan negotiated by the parties will be substituted for the Court Plan,
   and the State of Mississippi will be legally obligated to fund the
   Proposal over the next seventeen years of its life. That obligation
   would be legally enforceable as a contract, meaning that if at any time
   the State failed to appropriate the yearly dollar amounts called for in
   the Proposal, the State may be taken to court and the Proposal enforced
   as any other contract.4 4See Order of May 8, 2001, in which the details
   of the Proposal and the yearly funding obligations are included. 5 IV.
   The court has received numerous arguments pro and con on the issue of
   whether the Proposal is reasonable. Intelligent, thoughtful and sincere
   people have presented reasons on both sides of the issue. University
   professors and administrators have testified in favor of the Proposal.
   University professors and administrators have testified against the
   Proposal. Members of the Mississippi Legislature have testified in
   favor of the Proposal. Members of the Mississippi Legislature have
   testified in opposition to the Proposal. Education experts from outside
   the State, with no vested interest in any of the universities in this
   State, have testified in favor of and in opposition to the Proposal.
   Ordinary citizens of the State who hold no elected or appointed offices
   and who are not in the field of education, but who are interested as
   citizens and taxpayers, have expressed strong views on the issue. The
   court summarizes the rationales presented to the court in favor of and
   in opposition to the Proposal which carry weight with the court as
   follows: In Favor: 1. The State Legislature will know exactly what its
   financial obligations are to settle the case and how many dollars it
   must appropriate each year to fund the Proposal and the costs could be
   spread over seventeen years. 2. The State will improve its public image
   by no longer being in court litigating a desegregation case. 3. The
   administrators of JSU, ASU and MVSU could plan years in advance how to
   use the funds designated for their institutions, over and above their
   regular budgets. 6 4. The IHL Board would no longer have to spend time
   working with the court on the Court Plan and in presenting a
   desegregation plan for ASU and MVSU. The Court Plan for JSU, as stated,
   has been implemented and is finished. See Order of January 10, 2001. 5.
   If the elected representatives of the State and the private plaintiffs
   have reached an agreement and want to settle the case, the court should
   allow them to do so, notwithstanding reservations of the court. In
   Opposition: 1. The Proposal is unreasonably expensive. The Court Plan
   has been completed at JSU, yet the Proposal calls for many millions of
   additional dollars for Ayers funding to be spent at JSU.5 The Court
   Plan for ASU and MVSU, although not completed, will likely be
   cumulatively less than that already expended on JSU, and more populous
   states than Mississippi have settled their IHL desegregation disputes
   for much less than the Proposal calls for.6 2. The Proposal hamstrings
   future policy-makers of the State from making any organizational
   changes in the State's higher education system for at least the next
   seventeen years, whereas the Court Plan has never ruled out the
   consideration of mergers, consolidations, additions or reorganization
   if the future leadership of the State decides to consider those choices
   in light of future developments in higher education. 3. The Proposal is
   more about politics and money than equal educational opportunity and
   desegregation, and is merely an attempt to use the federal court as a
   tool to gain State tax 5JSU will share in a proposed $100 million
   endowment, $70 million of which would be State tax dollars and $30
   million raised by State employees from other sources. There has been no
   evidence presented to the court nor is the court aware that any other
   state has created state- funded endowments for state-financed
   institutions. 6Larger states have settled their higher education
   disputes for much less amounts  e.g., Tennessee - $75 million over
   seven years; Virginia - $69.9 million over six years. 7 dollars for
   political purposes when the Legislature could not otherwise justify
   these dollar amounts for these purposes.7 4. Since the admissions
   standards to the universities now allow a student-applicant to attend
   any of the HWI's, if that student is qualified to attend any of the
   HBI's, the claim of denial of equal educational opportunity has largely
   been handled. The addition of monies to the HBI budgets called for by
   the Proposal to create courses which duplicate those now offered at
   nearby universities does nothing for desegregation and smacks of
   separate but equal. In addition, the IHL Board has already disregarded
   prior rulings of the court that the funding formulas for the HBI's are
   adequate, and has allocated for fiscal years 1997-2000 more tax dollars
   per student headcount for ASU and MVSU than for Mississippi State
   University, the University of Mississippi and the University of
   Southern Mississippi, thus turning the funding formula on its head.8 5.
   Some proponents say the Proposal, if accepted, will end the case but,
   as a practical matter, it will continue for seventeen years, cost more,
   take longer to complete and do less for desegregation than the Court
   Plan. 6. The Proposal fails to take into consideration the present or
   future ability of the State to fund it. 7 If we understand private
   petitioners to press us to order the upgrading of Jackson State, Alcorn
   State, and Mississippi Valley State solely so that they may be publicly
   financed, exclusively black enclaves by private choice, we reject that
   request. United States v. Fordice, 505 U.S. 717, 743, 120 L.Ed.2d 575,
   602 (1992) (emphasis in original). 8Data regarding general operations
   appropriations, exclusive of capital appropriations, furnished to the
   court by IHL Board, as reflected in the Monitor's report dated June 2,
   2000. 8 V. This court prefers that all cases end in agreement by the
   parties, if that agreement is in accordance with established law and
   reasonable to all involved. At this juncture, only a few persons have
   formulated this Proposal and spoken to the court as parties on behalf
   of the State, albeit those persons are high-ranking officials of the
   State  the Governor, the Attorney General and members of the IHL Board.
   All those proponents of the Proposal have an interest in obtaining more
   dollars from the Legislature to fund this Proposal, as do Congressman
   Bennie Thompson, the attorneys for the Justice Department and the
   private plaintiffs, the other creators of this Proposal. Although these
   persons have the power to bind the State to fund this Proposal for the
   next seventeen years, if the Proposal is accepted by the court, none of
   them has the power or responsibility to raise or appropriate the money
   necessary to fund the Proposal. Members of the Mississippi State
   Legislature, the body which does have the responsibility to raise and
   appropriate tax revenues, have presented well-articulated and reasoned
   opinions to the court on both sides of the issue. Testimony was
   presented that the members of the Legislative Black Caucus are
   generally in support of the Proposal, but the other testimony and
   writings received from Legislators were sharply divided. Before the
   court rules on a settlement proposal of this magnitude which calls for
   the expenditure of over $400 million tax dollars, the court wishes to
   receive a concurrent resolution or similar statement on the record from
   the Mississippi State Legislature, indicating whether the Legislature
   endorses this Proposal and agrees to fund it on the terms called for9
   or, alternatively, prefers the continuation of the Court Plan. If the
   Legislature advises the court that it agrees with 9A few aspects of the
   Proposal were restated at the Fairness Hearing but are not related to
   the amounts of funding  i.e., the trigger percentages and the attorney
   fees. 9 the parties on their Proposal, then the court will not stand in
   the way, and the Proposal will be accepted by this court. The court has
   an interest in preventing the appearance or substance of being used for
   political purposes as a tool to obtain money from the State to fund a
   Proposal which would not otherwise be appropriated. In the past there
   have been monies requested and appropriated under the guise of Ayers
   funding which the court has never ordered or contemplated ordering. See
   Orders of March 24, 2000 and July 6, 2000. If the Legislature advises
   the court on the record that it wants the Proposal accepted, then if,
   in future years, in order to fund the Proposal, taxes have to be raised
   and/or tuitions increased and/or money taken from other universities
   and/or indebtedness increased to be paid by future generations, it
   cannot be said  or at least it cannot be said truthfully10  that the
   amounts of money to fund the Proposal were unknown or that they were
   mandated by the court. The acceptance or rejection of the proposed
   settlement submitted by the parties, therefore, will be ruled on
   forthwith upon receiving the above-described communication from the
   Mississippi Legislature. ORDERED AND ADJUDGED this, the ______ day of
   December, 2001. /s/ ____________________________ NEAL B. BIGGERS, JR.
   SENIOR U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE 10It has already been pointed out supra
   that some monies have been requested and appropriated for Ayers that
   were not so ordered. 10
