http://www.ed.gov/prog_info/SFA/FAFSA/instr02-03/faq.html

   Department of Education Logo FAFSA 2002-2003 Logo

   Student Financial Aid
   Step One
   Step Two
   Step Three
   Step Four
   Step Five
   Step Six
   Step Seven
   Frequently Asked Questions
   The Application Process Sources of Information Privacy Act

                         Frequently Asked Questions

                  Whom can I call for help with answering FAFSA questions?

                You can call the Federal Student Aid Information Center at
       800-4-FED-AID (800-433-3243) with questions about the electronic or
       paper application process or about federal student financial aid in
                                                                  general.

      Why does the Department of Education ask for income information from
                                           the year before I go to school?

    Studies have consistently shown that verifiable income tax information
     from the base year (2001 for the 2002-03 award year) is more accurate
     than projected (2002) information when estimating how much the family
                 will be able to contribute during the coming school year.

     What should I (the student) do if my family has special circumstances
                                  that arent mentioned in the application?

           Talk to your financial aid administrator (FAA). If your familys
       circumstances have changed from the base year (2001) due to loss of
    employment, loss of benefits, death, or divorce, the FAA may decide to
     adjust data elements used to calculate your EFC. The adjustment might
                                increase your eligibility for student aid.

     Im not sure if I want to take out a student loan. What should I enter
              for the question asking if I am interested in student loans?

         Some schools use this information to put together a financial aid
      package for you. Answering "Yes" does not obligate you to take out a
                                     loan. You can change your mind later.

      If I live with an aunt, uncle, or grandparent, should that relatives
                       income be reported instead of parental information?

   Only if the relative is your adoptive parent. Dependent students can be
          considered dependent only on their parent(s) and may report only
       parental information on the FAFSA. You must report any cash support
    given by relatives, but not in-kind support (such as food and housing)
                                                           from relatives.

          What if I live with a girlfriend or boyfriend who pays the rent?

     You should not report any information for a friend or roommate unless
           the two of you are actually married or are considered to have a
     common-law marriage under state law. You must report any cash support
      given by the friend as un-taxed income but should not report in-kind
   support (such as food). You would have to report as income the rent the
     roommate paid if your name were on the lease and if the roommate were
                                           paying the rent on your behalf.

                                    When is student aid considered income?

      Generally, grants and scholarships that do not exceed tuition, fees,
    books, and required supplies are not considered to be taxed or untaxed
    income. If you have an ROTC scholarship, a private scholarship, or any
     other kind of grant or scholarship, that grant or scholarship will be
      considered as an available resource by the financial aid office when
      packaging aid but will not be reported as income on the application.

        You should report grants and scholarships you reported on your tax
   return. You should then report these items as exclusions from income on
                                                              Worksheet C.

            Whats the difference between cash support and in-kind support?

   Cash support is support given either in the form of money or money that
    is paid on your (the students) behalf. You must report cash support as
    untaxed income. Thus, if a friend or relative gives you grocery money,
    it must be reported as untaxed income on Worksheet B. If the friend or
      relative pays your electric bill or part of your rent, you must also
                                                    report those payments.

        Examples of in-kind support are free food or housing that a family
      receives, usually in exchange for work or services. You usually dont
                                                      report such support.

          However, the application does require you to report the value of
   housing a family receives as compensation for a job on Worksheet B. The
    most common example is free housing or a housing allowance provided to
                                             military personnel or clergy.

             I am now a U.S. citizen but have an Alien Registration Number
                                      (A-Number). Which oval do I fill in?

     Fill in the U.S. citizen oval do not fill in the eligible non-citizen
                                     oval, and do not provide an A-Number.

    Im going to get married this summer. How do I answer the question that
                                                     asks if I am married?

            Answer "Yes" if you are married on the day you sign the FAFSA.
    Otherwise, answer "No." The FAFSA is a snapshot of your status the day
              it is signed; it does not forecast changes such as marriage.

          Why must I report the highest school level my parents completed?

     Some states and institutions make funds available to support students
   who are first-generation college students. This information also serves
                 statistical purposes. If you dont know the answer, select
                                                          "Other/unknown."

                         If Im an emancipated minor, am I now independent?

             The status of emancipated minor is not recognized by the U.S.
   Department of Education for financial aid purposes; such a student must
                  meet one of the other listed criteria to be independent.

    If I am in the National Guard or am an active duty military member, am
             I considered a veteran for purposes of filling out the FAFSA?

     If you were a member of the National Guard or were a Reservist called
   to active duty for purposes other than training and were released under
     a condition other than dishonorable, you are considered a veteran for
                                                           FAFSA purposes.

        If you are on active duty in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or
   Coast Guard, but will be a veteran by June 30, 2003, you are considered
      a veteran for FAFSA purposes. If your active duty will continue past
        June 30, 2003, however, you are not considered a veteran for FAFSA
                                                                 purposes.

    Ill be filing a tax return this year but I probably wont get around to
     it until April. How should I answer the financial questions? Should I
           wait to fill out this form until after Ive filed my tax return?

    Ideally, you should complete a FAFSA after youve done your tax return,
       but dont wait until April. Many colleges award aid on a first-come,
    first-served basis. Also, you may not be eligible for state aid if you
   wait until April to submit your FAFSA. If you havent submitted your tax
   return, you should calculate your Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) and taxes
            paid using the instructions for IRS Form 1040. You can get the
         instructions and the form at a public library or download them in
                                       Portable Document Format (PDF) from
                                  http://www.irs.gov/forms_pubs/forms.html

      You might have to provide your college with a copy of your completed
       tax return (assuming youre required to file one) before you receive
                                                      federal student aid.

                  If my parents are divorced, whose information do I need?

     The parent that you lived with the most during the past year. It does
      not make a difference which parent claims you as a dependent for tax
    purposes. If you did not live with either parent or lived equally with
     each parent, the parental information must be provided for the parent
      from whom you received the most financial support or the parent from
       whom you received the most support the last time support was given.

   I am entering financial information for my mother and stepfather on the
      form. Should I give my fathers Social Security Number (SSN) and last
                                                  name, or my stepfathers?

     You should provide the SSN and last name of the same person or people
   for whom you are reporting financial information. In this case, provide
                         the SSNs and names of your mother and stepfather.

      What should you do if the parent with whom you live is remarried and
                            the step-parent refuses to supply information?

          If you are a dependent student and your parent is remarried, the
    stepparents information must be included or you will not be considered
                                        for federal student financial aid.

    How does a family decide whom should be counted in the household size?

    Anyone in the immediate family who receives more than 50% support from
     a dependent students parents or an independent student and spouse may
   be counted in the household size even if that person does not reside in
   the house. For example, a sibling who is over 24 but still receives the
    majority of his/her support from the parents can be included. Siblings
      who are dependent (as defined by the FAFSA) as of the date you apply
    for aid are also included, regardless of whether they receive at least
    50% of their support from the parents. Any other person who resides in
     the household and receives more than 50% support from the parents may
   also be counted, as long as the support is expected to continue through
     June 30, 2003. An unborn child who will be born during the award year
                                may also be counted in the household size.

           Household size and tax exemptions are not necessarily the same.
       Exemptions look at the previous year or tax year and household size
      refers to the school year for which the student is applying for aid.

   My parents separated four months ago. I live with my mother. My parents
      filed a joint tax return and claimed me as an exemption. Do I report
                                   both their incomes, or just my mothers?

   Report only your mothers income and asset information because you lived
      with her the most during the past 12 months. Use a W-2 Form or other
    record(s) to determine her share of the income reported and taxes paid
                                                        on the tax return.

      If I (the student) am separated but filed a joint tax return, how is
                                                 the information reported?

    You should give only your portion of the exemptions, income, and taxes
                                                                     paid.

                     Who qualifies to be counted in the number in college?

      Any person (other than your parents) who is counted in the household
   and will be attending any term of the academic year at least half time.
    The person must be working toward a degree or certificate leading to a
     recognized education credential at a postsecondary school eligible to
   participate in the Federal Student Aid Programs. You (the student) need
         not be enrolled half time to be counted in the number in college.

      When does my school have to receive the results from my application?

     Your school must have your information by your last day of enrollment
        in 2002-03, or by September 2, 2003, whichever is earlier. If your
      school has not received your application information electronically,
    you must submit your paper SAR to the school by the deadline. Once the
   school receives your information, it will use your EFC to determine the
       amount of your federal grant, loan, or work-study award, if you are
    eligible. The FAA will send you a letter explaining the aid the school
                                                              is offering.

                What if I dont get a SAR or I need another copy of my SAR?

         If you do not receive your SAR or SAR Information Acknowledgement
   within two weeks or SAR within four weeks, call the Federal Student Aid
         Information Center at 800-4-FED-AID (800-433-3243). If you have a
    touch-tone phone, you can use the automated system to find out whether
     your application has been processed or to request duplicate copies of
     your report. You will need to provide your Social Security Number and
    the first two letters of your last name. You can also check the status
           of your FAFSA and print a copy of your SAR at www.fafsa.ed.gov.

           What if I think somebody is misusing federal student aid funds?

    If you have reason to suspect fraud, waste, or abuse involving federal
      student aid funds, you should call the U.S. Department of Educations
                                  Inspector Generals toll-free hotline at:

                         800-MIS-USED (800-647-8733)
                                                                       ###
     __________________________________________________________________

                                                   Step 7 Step 7 Home Home
