http://greatvalley.parks.ca.gov/caswell.html

   TC
   [logo.gif]
   Caswell Memorial State Park 28000 S. Austin Rd. Ripon, CA 95336
   (209) 599-3810
   [camp_button.gif] [beachpic.jpg] [Open-Meadow-3.jpg]
   [wildlife_button.gif]
   [Threatened_button.gif]
   [History_button.gif]
   [pande_button.gif]
   [directions_button.gif]
   Caswell Memorial State Park is located along the Stanislaus River near
   the town of Ripon, California. The park's 258 acres protect a fine
   example of the threatened and still declining riparian oak woodland,
   which once flourished throughout California's Central Valley. Caswell
   is home to several endangered animal species, including the riparian
   brush rabbit which is not known to occur anywhere else.
   [Links_button.gif]
   [contactcas.gif]

                     Camping Information [campsite.jpg]

   You can choose from 64 beautiful campsites when staying overnight at
   Caswell. Each campsite appears much like this one with surrounding
   walls of lush vegetation. There is a food locker, table and fire pit at
   each site. Also available is a group campsite which accomodates up to
   50 people for $75/night.

   (photo by Anne Rudholm)

   *if planning to camp, please read Rules

   Reservations can be made through Reserve America. 1-800-444-7275

   Campsite, Sun.-Thurs.   $15.00 per night Extra Vehicle   $5.00 per night
   Campsite, Fri.- Sat.    $16.00 per night Dog             $1.00 per night
   Off Season, Oct.- April $12.00 per night Day Use Parking $5.00 per
                                                            vehicle

   home

                              Campground Rules

   Only 2 vehicles allowed to park at each campsite.

   Quiet hours are from 10 pm- 6 am.

   Vehicles must stay on paved areas at all times.

   Each campsite is allowed a maximum of 8 people.

   Check in time is 12 noon. Choeck out time is 2 p.m.

   Firearms, bows and arrows, etc. are not permitted.

   Generators may only be run between 10 a.m.- 8 p.m.

   Gathering wood is never permitted. Bundles of almond wood are available
   for $5.

   Dogs are an additional $1 per night. Dogs must be leashed at all times.

   Campsites are vulnerable to theft at any time. Secure your valuables &
   equipment, and report any suspicious activity.

   home
   Wildlife and Recreation
   Caswell features a great variety of plants and animals. Among its
   inhabitants are coyotes like this pup on the left, the great blue
   heron, and yellow-billed magpies. These magpies are found only within a
   fifty mile radius and are popular attractions for birders from around
   the world. Visitors also enjoy fishing, hiking and river-rafting.
   [blueheron.jpg]
   [coyotepup.jpg]
   The diverse wildlife in the park depends upon the lush river forest.
   The Va [trail.jpg] lley Oak is the dominant tree here, and the old
   groves along the Majestic Oak trail are as close to pristine as may be
   found in California. Fremont Cottonwood, White Alder, Box Elder, and
   several species of willow, accompany the massive oaks . [rivershot.jpg]
   Anglers at Caswell catch mostly catfish. There are also small and
   largemouth bass, striped bass and carp. To protect fall salmon runs,
   fishing is allowed January 1 - October 15.
   [catfish.jpg]
   [riverkids.jpg]
   Caswell is a great place to go when looking to cool off from one of the
   valley's intense heat waves. Several white sand beaches provide water
   recreation. In addition to swimming, many visitors enjoy rafting down
   the Stanislaus river.
   Caswell has about 4 miles of wonderful walking trails through the oak
   groves and along the river. Park trails are easy, level hiking for
   people of all ages. Visitors enjoy bird calls and the sounds of the
   river in the peaceful atmosphere of the dense forest. [trailgrl2.jpg]
   home
   Caswell as a Wildlife Sanctuary
   [aerial.jpg]
   Caswell is a wild island surrounded by farmland. With the development
   of the Central Valley, 95% of the river corridor forests were
   destroyed. This meant that many species of plants and animals were left
   without habitat. Caswell was donated to the state park system in order
   to preserve what all the valley communities were built on: a part of
   the special river ecosystem.

                             Endangered Animals

   Several threatened or endangered species are found at Caswell. The
   causes of their decline include habitat loss from human land
   development, poor water quality from urban and agricultural runoff, the
   damming of the Stanislaus River and other Central Valley rivers, and
   the introduction of competing non-native species.
   Riparian Brush Rabbit [brushbunny.jpg]

   Do bunnies really climb trees? Well, this one does. The Riparian Brush
   Rabbit is a tiny rabbit that has adapted to the flooding of the
   Stanislaus river by learning how to climb trees. Though vulnerable to
   winged predators (hawks & owls) this rabbit can stay in a tree for up
   to four days. Unfortunately, the damming of the Stanislaus River led to
   the development of almost all land above flood level. This left just a
   little land on which the rabbit could live. Scientists study the
   population of the Riparian Brush Rabbit to see if it will ever be able
   to make a comeback. Predators such as feral cats and feral dogs (cats
   and dogs that have been abandoned and become wild) also prey on the
   rabbit, making it difficult to predict whether the it will survive.
   This rabbit is listed as endangered by state and federal wildlife
   agencies, and is believed to be found only at Caswell.
   [Woodrat.gif] Riparian Woodrat

   This small animal is not really a rat. It is one of the most harmless
   rodents, and rarely enters human habitats. The woodrat's house is built
   out of twigs, cans, plastic forks, and anything else he can find. It
   can be as high as six feet tall, and also serves as a kind of motel for
   other forest animals. Unfortunately, this unique animal is also
   threatened by habitat loss.
   Valley Longhorn Elderberry Beetle [elderbeetle.gif]

   This small insect is dependent upon the elderberry tree at every stage
   of its life cycle. Thus, habitat destruction is especially threatening
   to the beetle. They are also severely affected by pesticides drifting
   over from neighboring farms. They are recognized as an endangered
   species by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

   For more information on Endangered Wildlife, Please see our Links Page

   home

                            Caswell's Beginnings

   Caswell Memorial State Park was intially inhabited by the Yokuts, a
   Native American tribe of hunter-gatherers. Spanish explorers and
   fur-trappers also thrived in the valley wilderness. Eventually, the
   land came under the ownership of Thomas Caswell, who loved and
   appreciated the importance of his beautiful estate. He felt it should
   be preserved for future generations, and in 1950 his family donated 134
   acres to the people of California. An additional 124 acres were
   purchased by the state and donated by private organizations. Caswell
   has been open to the public since 1958.

   The Stanislaus River, an important feature of the park, has a unique
   story of its own. It was in this area that a famous battle between
   Mexican soldiers and a band of Native Americans took place. The Native
   Americans were led by a man named Estanislao. Stanislaus is the English
   translation, and the river is named to honor him and his band.

   home
   Programs and Events

   Come learn about your natural environment!

   Times of events vary from week to week. Be sure to call ahead of time
   to confirm whether or not events are happening: (209)599-3810
   Junior Ranger Programs

        Kids ages 7-12 are invited to join a member of our staff for
   entertaining and educational activities all summer long! Kids can learn
      about Native Californians, history, geology, safety and survival,
    wildlife, ecology and even create beautiful artwork. This program is
   offered by most state parks, which means children are able to build on
              what they learn as they travel from park to park.

   [painting1.jpg]
   [painting2.jpg]
   Campfire Programs [campfire.gif]

   Campfire Programs are held every weekend during the summer and are open
   to all campers. Activities usually include slide shows, storytelling,
   games and marshmallow roasting.
   Nature Walks

   Led by members of our staff, nature walks reveal aspects of Caswell and
   nature in general. Caswell has many beautiful trails with gorgeous
   features that are a must-see for anyone who comes to the park. Times
   vary.
   [nat_table.jpg]
   Nature Table

   Experience nature firsthand! There are many natural artifacts for all
   visitors to see and touch at the nature table, including animal pelts
   and bones! Times also vary.

                               Special Events

   There are several annual events held at Caswell that are open to the
   public. We also offer opportunities for private parties to hold their
   own events. For more information on holding a private event, contact a
   staff member at (209) 599-3810.
   May is State Parks Month!
   [brochure.jpg]
