http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2002_0130monu.htm

   [bar1.jpg]

   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   [bar1.jpg]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) / Tracey Shifflett
   (Tracey.Shifflett@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019

    Chairman Says Proposal for 2nd National Monument in Utah is the Ideal
                      Way to Create a National Monument

      Proposal based on grassroots support, limited size, multiple use

   Washington, D.C.
   - House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen today cited Utah leaders’
   proposal for a new national monument in Utah as the ideal method for
   creating a national monument. Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt announced Monday
   that Utah’s state and local leaders will ask President Bush to use his
   executive powers to create a 620,000-acre national monument at the San
   Rafael Swell, a colorful stretch of desert canyons that was once a
   hiding place for Butch Cassidy.

   Chairman Hansen’s statement:

   “This proposal is the prototype for how national monuments should be
   created. In the future, I think we’ll have two monuments in Utah that
   stand as a testimony to the evolution of environmental politics. The
   1.7 million-acre Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument, which is
   little more than endless miles of sagebrush, will represent the Clinton
   era of governance behind closed doors and the undue influence of the
   environmental lobby.

   “The San Rafael Swell National Monument, 620,000 acres of the most
   dramatic desert canyons you can imagine, will reflect President Bush’s
   inclusive style and his sensitivity to western values and the wishes of
   rural citizens and local leaders. I can’t think of two more graphic
   illustrations of how these two men view and treat the West.

   “The San Rafael proposal is the way monuments should be created. It
   comes after years of discussion and has the support of local citizens.
   Utah state and local leaders are leading the charge and the
   congressional delegation’s onboard. Everyone gets a say. No surprise
   announcements from a podium in another state.

   “It follows the letter and the spirit of the Antiquities Act, which
   requires the identification of a specific scenic, scientific or
   historic site and the use of the smallest amount of acreage available
   to protect that site. We’re doing precisely that and not an iota more.
   There will be none of the stunning abuses we saw with Bill Clinton and
   the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument. I congratulate Utah
   leaders on their respect both for the law and for citizen input.”

                                     ###
