http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/trailwork.html

                                                                Home Index

                           Trail Work at Coe Park

                               [greenline.gif]

                               Next Trail Day
                               April 13, 2002

         If you're a hiker, a mountain biker, or a horseback rider,
              you know that great trails help make great parks.
    Trails don't just happen though, and many budget-stressed parks (like
                                    Coe)
      rely on volunteers to build new trails and keep old trails open.

     You are cordially invited to lend a hand in trail work at Coe Park.
        If you've done trail work before, you may want to skip ahead
           to the details of the next official Coe Park trail day.
      If you're interested but want to know more about what's involved,
                               please read on.


   [trailwork.jpg]
   A typical trail day...
   9:00 a.m. You arrive at park headquarters, mingle with other
   volunteers, fill out a (very short) form.  Then you grab your lunch,
   water, and work gloves and head out in a park vehicle or on foot to an
   area in need of trail work.
   9:30 a.m. You arrive at a trail head where an experienced trail worker
   describes the techniques of safe, effective trail work and explains how
   to use our trail tools.
   10:00 a.m. You and your crew hike (if necessary) to your trail section
   and start to work.  Your crew leader stays close by to answer
   questions, demonstrate techniques, and make sure everyone is working
   safely.
   12:00 noon Everybody finds a shady spot for lunch.
   12:30 p.m. Trail work resumes, and everyone is encouraged to drink lots
   of water if the day is turning warm.
   2:00 p.m. Quitting time!  You and your crew admire the work you've
   done, turn in your tools, and head back to your cars, perhaps in the
   company of newly made friends.

   top

   We have two official trail days at the park, one in November and the
   other in April.  Some people get hooked on building trails, however,
   and we make special arrangements to let them work additional days
   during the year.  If you become interested in putting in some
   "unofficial" trail work time, ask your crew leader for more information
   or call the park.

                   Trail Day -- Saturday, April 13, 2002
   To sign up, call the Coe Sector Office at 408-848-4006 and ask to talk
   to the Trail Day coordinator.
   The coordinator will tell you what time to show up and where
   everybody's meeting.
   If you have questions about volunteer trail work, the Trail Day
   coordinator can answer them for you.

   On trail day, bring your lunch, a water container, work gloves, and
   sturdy shoes.

                                     top

                               [greenline.gif]

                      Return  to the Coe Park home page
