http://w3.antd.nist.gov/whatantddoes.shtml

   ANTD Banner

ANTD Overview

   Overview

     The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) provides
     standards and measurement science to support US industry. The
     Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) at NIST focuses on standards
     and measurement science for the information technology (IT)
     industry. The incredibly rapid rate of change in the IT industry
     makes this a challenging task. Standards, particularly those
     required for interoperability, are essential for the communications
     segment of the IT industry. Communications systems must share a
     common language with agreed upon rules of interaction to effectively
     communicate. No one wants a communication system that cannot
     communicate, so standards that ensure that products can successfully
     exchange information are vital to the health of the communications
     sector. ITL supports the development of these standards in a number
     of ways. We, of course, work with standards groups to help them
     develop standards and we develop the conformance tests used by
     industry and users to ensure that a product meets the specified
     standard. However, this is only part of what we do. The rapid change
     in the IT industry demands a more flexible approach to measurement
     and standards. The problem with traditional standards is that they
     take too long to develop. The problem with conformance tests is that
     they are applied at the end of the product development cycle, after
     a product is ready for delivery, and can thus add to the cost of
     delivering the product. NIST uses several techniques to provide
     industry with tests and measurements early in the development cycle.
     NIST strives to produce tests that reduce the cost of delivering a
     product while improving the products quality. Some of the technique
     we use to do this are:

     * Simulation - ITL has developed and uses simulators that allows us
       and our industrial partners to evaluate, and improve, proposed
       solutions before a large amount of money is invested in developing
       those solutions.
     * Emulation - ITL has developed a simple to use, low cost network
       emulator that can be used to evaluate how a product performs over a
       network without the expense of building the actual network.
     * Standard Reference Prototypes - ITL develops source code that is
       used by industry as a reference for commercial code development and
       as a target for interoperability testing.
     * Test Tools - ITL develops test tools ranging from Web-based
       interoperability test systems to Internet quality of service
       measurement tools that can be used by application and network
       developers to evaluate their products during the development phase.
     * Research Networks - ITL has constructed laboratory based test
       networks for research on emerging technologies. Network experiments
       cannot be run over production networks without endangering those
       networks. Test beds permit NIST to evaluate these new technologies
       on a "live" network without endangering production work. Lessons
       learned in these environments can then be passed on to industry for
       commercial product development. The NGI brings the research network
       out of the lab and implements it on a national scale.

   By providing tests and measurement early in the development cycle,
   NIST hopes to create network products that have measurement built-in
   from the start. Measurement is an essential component of continuous
   improvement. You cannot improve a product if you cannot understand
   how it is performing.

   Back arrow forward arrow
   Horizontal rule
   Back to NIST Home

           Disclaimer Notice & Privacy Statement | Security Notice
           Send comments or suggestions to webmaster@antd.nist.gov
        NISTis an Agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
                               Administration


                           Date Created: May 2001
                         Created by: Stan Morehouse
                       Last updated: September 6, 2001
