http://www.phila.gov/pdfs/antibiotics.pdf

   HEALTH COMMISSIONER ADVISES PROPER USE OF ANTIBIOTICS Because of the
   recent anthrax cases in Florida and New York, area pharmacists and
   physicians are receiving increasing requests for medications used to
   combat the disease. Health Commissioner Walter H. Tsou, MD, MPH, today
   reminded residents that Anthrax cannot be spread from person to person
   and urged Philadelphians to adhere to the recommendations of the U.S.
   Centers for Disease Control Prevention (CDC) regarding the use of
   antibiotic medications. Dr. Tsou said," antibiotics taken to prevent
   anthrax or diseases caused by other biological agents are only
   recommended in the event of a confirmed case of the disease". The CDC
   does not recommend stockpiling antibiotics or the use of antibiotics in
   the absence of evidence of possible exposure. Inappropriate antibiotic
   use may cause side effects such as rash, diarrhea, and allergic
   reactions and may interfere with the use of other medications.
   Unnecessary use of antibiotics can lead to the development of resistant
   strains of bacteria that cause common infections like pneumonia and ear
   infections, making them more difficult to treat. Individuals who
   stockpile antibiotics risk using expired medications. Stockpiling can
   lead to shortages of national and regional supplies for routine or
   emergency use, delaying treatment of people with illnesses who need the
   medicine. Esther Chernak, MD, a medical specialist for the health
   department's Division of Disease Control said, "the federal government
   maintains a large stockpile of medications that includes antibiotics
   which would be effective in a bioterrorist attack. This stockpile would
   be rapidly available for distribution if necessary." The City of
   Philadelphia has a plan to obtain and distribute emergency medications
   from this stockpile in an emergency. The use of anthrax vaccine is
   currently restricted to use for the United States Department of Defense
   personnel who are thought to be at high risk for exposure. Anthrax
   vaccine requires 6 shots over 18 months and then additional shots to
   maintain protection. Plans are underway to increase the stockpiles of
   both smallpox and anthrax vaccine. The Philadelphia Department of
   Public Health is conducting ongoing surveillance for infectious
   diseases that might result from biological weapons. If a bioterrorist
   event were to occur in Philadelphia, the general public would be
   informed through the news media and provided with information necessary
   to protect their health. If antibiotics or vaccine were needed,
   emergency clinics would be set up throughout the City, and instructions
   provided on where to obtain these medications. The best way for
   residents to protect themselves and their family is to be as prepared
   as possible for any disaster. More information about biological
   terrorism and City emergency planning can be obtained from the City's
   web site at www.phila.gov. The web site also offers guildlines for
   handling suspect letters and packages. CONTACT: Jeff Moran,
   215-685-5685 10/12/01
