http://www.eldercare.gov/natl_aging_network.asp

   U.S. Administration on Aging About Eldercare Locator National Aging
   Network Eldercare Search
   Eldercare Locator -- Find Community Assistance for Seniors
   Thanks for visiting the site!

   Eldercare Locator Home | HHS Home

    You are here: Eldercare Locator Home Page  >  National Aging Network
   Eldercare Search
   Elder person
   The Eldercare Locator was a lifesaver

   National Aging Network

   To meet the diverse needs of the growing numbers of older persons in
   the United States, the Older Americans Act of 1965 (OAA), as amended,
   established a national network of federal, state, and local agencies to
   plan, organize, coordinate and provide community-based services and
   opportunities for older Americans and their families. This
   interconnected structure of agencies is known as the national aging
   network.

   The national aging network is headed by the U.S. Administration on
   Aging, a division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
   The network includes 57 State Units on Aging, 655 Area Agencies on
   Aging, 225 Tribal organizations representing 300 tribes, and thousands
   of service providers.

   The Administration on Aging

   The Administration on Aging (AoA) is the focal point and advocacy
   agency for older persons at the federal level. AoA provides leadership,
   technical assistance and support to the national aging network. It
   administers most OAA programs at the federal level. These programs
   provide assistance to older persons and their caregivers, as well as
   critical support services, such as nutrition and transportation, for
   older persons at risk of being prematurely or unnecessarily
   institutionalized. AoA also administers programs that protect the
   rights of vulnerable and at-risk older persons and educates them and
   their communities about the dangers of elder abuse and consumer fraud.
   Other OAA programs offer older persons opportunities to enhance their
   health and service their communities through employment and volunteer
   programs.

   State Units on Aging

   AoA awards funds for supportive home and community-based services to
   the State Units on Aging (SUAs), which are located in every state and
   U.S. territory. In addition to funding critical nutrition and
   supportive services, funds are awarded to the SUAs for elder rights
   programs, including the long-term care ombudsman program, legal
   services, outreach and elder abuse prevention efforts. Funding is
   allocated to each SUA based on the number of persons over the age of 60
   in the state. Most states are divided into planning and service areas
   (PSAs), so that programs can be tailored to meet the specific needs of
   older persons residing in local areas.

   The National Family Caregiver Support Program is a new program that
   will permit states to develop systems or support to address the needs
   of informal caregivers in providing care to their older relatives and
   friends. In addition, the Caregiver Support Program will provide
   valuable support to older persons who care for adult children with
   disabilities and/or grandchildren.

   Area Agencies on Aging

   Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs) are a public or private non-profit
   agencies, designated by the state to address the concerns of all older
   people at the regional and local levels. "Area Agency on Aging" is a
   generic termspecific names of local AAAs may vary. All AAAs are
   responsible for developing comprehensive, community-based services
   which meet the needs of older adults in their communities.

   The following is a partial list of services funded through the OAA and
   made available through AAAs:
     * Access Services - information and assistance; outreach; escort and
       transportation; and case management
     * In-Home Services - home-delivered meals; chore; home repair;
       modifications and rehabilitation; homemaker/home health aides; and
       personal care
     * Community Services - congregate meals; senior center activities;
       adult day care; nursing home ombudsman services; elder abuse
       prevention; legal services; employment and pension counseling;
       health promotion; and fitness programs; and
     * Caregiver Services - respite; adult day care; counseling, support
       groups and education

   The intent of Congress in passing and amending the Older Americans Act
   is to preserve the rights and dignity of older Americans and to ensure
   the highest possible quality of life for them. The services listed
   above, as well as other community programs designed to meet the needs
   of older persons, are helping to achieve that intent.

                              Updated: 11/16/01


       Select state and enter zip code
           [state]  Zip Code: _____
                    submit
   Need Help Finding Zip Codes? Click Here.

   Links to Other Resources

   Caregiver Resources
   arrow  Caregiver Internet Resources
   arrow  Alzheimer's Information

   Aging Resources
   arrow  AoA Website
   arrow  FirstGov for Seniors
   arrow  Long Term Care Ombudsmen Programs
   arrow  National Aging Information Center
   arrow  The National Center on Elder Abuse

    Call the Eldercare Locator at 1-800-677-1116

   Contact Info | Access Statement | Privacy
   Notice | FOIA | Disclaimer | Help
