http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/clearinghouse.html

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Clearinghouse Nodes

   A fundamental goal of the Hurricane Mitch clearinghouse nodes is to
   provide access to digital spatial data through metadata. These nodes
   are connected to the FGDC Clearinghouse which functions as a detailed
   catalog service with support for links to spatial data and browse
   graphics. The USGS Hurricane Mitch Program has nodes in El Salvador,
   Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and the United States.
   Quick Jumps:
   How do I find Hurricane Mitch data or metadata?   What is the
   Clearinghouse?   Why not just use Internet indexes or catalogs on
   CD-ROM?   Hurricane Mitch Clearinghouse Node History
   Clearinghouse Nodes
   Locations of the clearinghouse nodes The map at right shows the
   locations of the clearinghouse nodes. The clearinghouse nodes house
   metadata (metadata or "data about data" describe the content, quality,
   condition, and other characteristics of data) and data for the
   Hurricane Mitch project:
     * El Salvador: IGN
     * Guatemala: SEGEPLAN
     * Honduras: UNITEC
     * Nicaragua: MAG-FOR, INETER
     * United States: EROS Data Center

   The Central American countries (El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
   Nicaragua) have clearinghouse nodes which house data and the
   accompanying metadata produced only by that country's agencies in
   cooperation with the USGS Hurricane Mitch Program. The node at EROS
   Data Center houses all USGS data and metadata.
   How do I find Hurricane Mitch data or metadata?
   The data is found by going directly to one of the Hurricane Mitch
   clearinghouse nodes or through the metadata which is accessed by
   searching the FGDC Clearinghouse. The FGDC Clearinghouse search results
   will show metadata that matched the search request for Hurricane Mitch.
   There will be links to the data locations in the metadata.
   What is the Clearinghouse?
   The Clearinghouse Activity, sponsored by the FGDC, is a decentralized
   system of servers located on the Internet which contain field-level
   descriptions of available digital spatial data. This descriptive
   information, known as metadata, are collected in a standard format to
   facilitate query and consistent presentation across multiple
   participating sites.
   A fundamental goal of the Clearinghouse is to provide access to digital
   spatial data through metadata. The Clearinghouse functions as a
   detailed catalog service with support for links to spatial data and
   browse graphics. Clearinghouse allows individual agencies, consortia,
   or geographically-defined communities to band together and promote
   their available digital spatial data.
   Why not just use Internet indexes or catalogs on CD-ROM?
   Digital spatial data and metadata are stored in many forms and systems
   which make their discovery on the Internet difficult. Indexing of
   text-based catalogs of available information only on CD-ROM provides a
   limited and time-dependent view of the status of predominantly
   network-based resources. Use of current web indexing technology offers
   literal text search and matching for metadata which happen to be stored
   in HTML, but do not generally provide the indexing required for search
   of coordinates, dates and times, and other numeric values. In addition,
   an increasing amount of information is being stored within dynamic
   databases behind Web servers, further frustrating and making
   questionable the value of, external indexes. Clearinghouse provides
   standard methods for spatial data discovery that do not invalidate
   existing systems yet provide a federated search capability among
   distributed sites. CD-ROM and network-based search capabilities provide
   complementary services to that user community interested in finding and
   accessing digital spatial data. Synopses of existing metadata entries
   from the distributed Clearinghouse can periodically be captured to
   CD-ROM for off-line browsing and review. The on-line resources they
   reference, however, will become accessible only in an on-line setting,
   restricting the utility of a standalone CD product. The general trend
   toward connectivity of spatial data producers, vendors, and users on
   the Internet coupled with the development of the Open Geodata
   Interoperability Specification indicate a long-term public commitment
   to not only on-line data discovery but direct data access by client
   processes across internal and public networks. Clearinghouse provides
   one testbed solution to catalog interoperability on the Internet today.
   Hurricane Mitch Clearinghouse Node History
   A Mitch-reconstruction meeting in 1998, convened by Sistema de la
   Integracion Centroamericana (SICA) in San Salvador emphasized the need
   for regional cooperation in environmental management, as well as the
   importance of, and access to, geospatial data. The post-Mitch
   reconstruction and planning activities in Central America by the USGS
   and others will generate large volumes of data. The ability of various
   government and aid agencies to locate, access, and distribute these
   data sets is critical for planning for natural disaster response,
   mitigation, and reconstruction. To facilitate management and access to
   relevant Mitch data, this project is implementing the IGDN
   Clearinghouse across Central America. A Clearinghouse is a
   decentralized system of computer servers connected to the Internet that
   contain descriptions of digital spatial data (metadata). The
   clearinghouse project has implemented data servers (nodes) in Honduras,
   Nicaragua, Guatemala, and El Salvador. Additional nodes will be added
   elsewhere in Central America and potentially in the Dominican Republic.
   This Internet Clearinghouse will be a primary mechanism for users to
   gain access to geospatial data relevant to Mitch reconstruction and
   planning activities.
     * Train colleagues from each Mitch-affected country in Clearinghouse
       and metadata production.
     * Establish Clearinghouse nodes in each Mitch-impacted country, and
       two additional regional nodes.
     * Stage all key USGS geographic products on the Clearinghouse, with
       information on access to these products.
     * Prepare a plan for continued national and regional cooperation to
       promote access and use of geographic data for disaster assessments
       and mitigation.
     * Develop a clearinghouse mirror site to continue clearinghouse
       functions in the event of a disaster related catastrophic failure
       of Central American sites.

   Approach
   The USGS, with support from USAID/LAC and the IDB, has been
   implementing the "PAIGH Atlas of the Americas" project. This project
   has begun conducting IGDN Clearinghouse workshops and coordinating and
   assisting in the development of Clearinghouse nodes to ensure access,
   availability, and distribution of geospatial data to users in El
   Salvador and Costa Rica. The USGS will extend this project to develop
   Clearinghouse nodes in Mitch-affected countries.
   The implementation of this system is focusing on four countries but
   will facilitate capacity building throughout Central America. The USGS
   has provided training for key information technologists from each
   country in data description and distribution techniques, is installing
   several Clearinghouse node per country, and establishing one
   Clearinghouse gateway in Honduras to facilitate data searching for
   Central America. This gateway will complement those in Mexico, Rio de
   Janeiro, Columbia, and the United States.
   The USGS is coordinating with Comision Centroamericana de Ambiente y
   Desarrollo (CCAD) and other regional or in-country organizations to
   ensure relevance, minimize duplication of effort, and facilitate
   capacity building in the targeted countries. This has been accomplished
   through a workshop of country participants at the USGS EROS Data
   Center, followed by in-country workshops to facilitate training,
   metadata creation, and data staging. We expect the training to result
   in active Websites for each counties nodes, rapid metadata creation,
   bilingual search capabilities, a mirror site at USGS, extended efforts
   at data discovery, continued GIS training and data development, data
   organization and archiving, training in image interpretation, and the
   close integration of all USGS projects.
   Data from Mitch-related USGS projects is being staged at country nodes
   in a systematic manner. Each country will retain control over its node
   but will participate with standard metadata and access though the
   Internet. The USGS expects at least one site to develop strong Internet
   map serving capabilities, thereby allowing a wide variety of users to
   access the system from their browsers, create data queries, and produce
   online map projects. In addition, this group of training GIS
   information technologists are expected to design and implement a major
   website on a node in Central America to monitor and describe the
   various reconstruction efforts under way in Central America.
   In the longer term it is expected that the capacity built during the
   project by training and through the purchase and installation of
   hardware and software, will result in a permanent clearinghouse network
   for collecting, archiving, and distributing environmental and natural
   disaster related data and information in the four countries and
   eventually across the region.


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Thursday, January 03, 2002
