http://ord.uscourts.gov/ecf/E-FilingRegistration.pdf

   CM/ECF ELECTRONIC FILING TRAINING SESSIONS For Attorneys & Staff What
   The U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon is offering one-day
   CM/ECF training sessions on Electronic Filing. The sessions will
   include an overview of the project, demonstration and hands-on
   experience with events and their functions. We will review the suite of
   on-line reports and queries as well as offer instruction on maintaining
   user accounts. These sessions are presented in a Train-the-Trainer
   format. Attendees will receive a facilitator's guide, handout materials
   and the class presentation on CD Rom so they may present the material
   to their staff and co-workers. Who Registered CM/ECF attorneys and
   their support staff may participate. Registration in the training class
   is limited to two (2) people per firm and class sizes are limited to 12
   participants. Please use the form below to register. When Classes will
   be held every Tuesday and Thursday from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm beginning on
   January 24, 2002 through March 28, 2002. Where Training will be held at
   the Mark O. Hatfield U.S. Courthouse, 1000 SW. Third Avenue, Suite 740,
   Portland, OR 97204. How Participants should print of the form below,
   complete and fax to the number on the form. (503) 326-8010. As a
   pre-requisite to attending the class, students should have reviewed the
   on-line tutorial available on our website ecf.ord.uscourts.gov , as
   well as be familiar with the on-line User Manual. Students should also
   be familiar with their firm's web browser and Adobe Acrobat
   Reader/Writer software. Each participant/firm must have a CM/ECF
   training area login and password and a PACER account login and
   password. If you do not have access to a training area login and
   password, please indicate on the registration form. The court will
   create one and notify you when the session dates are confirmed. Contact
   the PACER Service Center at pacer.psc.uscourts.gov or 1-800-676-6856 to
   set up an account. Session dates will be confirmed via e-mail. CM/ECF
   Electronic Filing Training Sessions U.S. District Court District of
   Oregon Registration Form Print, Complete, Fax to 503-326-8010
   Participant #1 Participant #2 Name: Name: Firm Name: Firm Name: Firm
   Address: Firm Address: Telephone: Telephone: E-mail: E-mail: 1st
   Choice: 1st Choice: 2nd Choice: 2nd Choice: 3rd Choice: 3rd Choice: I
   need a CM/ECF Training area I need a CM/ECF Training area login and
   password. login and password.
