http://ishi.lanl.gov/symintel.html

Mailing list
Documents
Other Links
Revision history
Glossary
FAQ
People

                      This website contains information from Los Alamos reports:

                           LA-UR 97-1200, 98-489, 98-2227, 98-1150, 98-2549



                                  The Symbiotic Intelligence Project

                Self-Organizing Knowledge on Distributed Networks

                         Driven by Human Interaction



     The following is from New Frontiers in Collective Problem Solving,

           by N. Johnson, S. Rasmussen, M. Kantor; LA-UR-98-1150.

                Or see an alternative, more detailed summary

   (Under construction - last update )





   The goal is to analyze and facilitate how people, in the process of
   accessing and using information on networks, create new knowledge
   without premeditation. We argue that the symbiotic combination of
   humans and smart networks will result in a previously unrealized
   capability of collective problem identification and solution. This
   capability is based on the pre-existing self-organizing dynamics of
   social evolution. This symbiotic intelligence will greatly increase the
   success of organizations in achieving their goals, better utilizing
   their resources and preparing for the future. For the human society as
   a whole, this new resource will improve our quality of life and
   vitality as a species.

The Project Motivation

   We envision an unprecedented capability in organizational and societal
   problem solving will result from increased human activity on smart
   distributed information systems, like the Internet. This heightened
   capability will be an enhancement of the self-organizing social
   dynamics that has guided human groups, organizations, and societies for
   millennia. While sufficient connectivity is developing on the Internet
   (and intranets) to activate this transformation, the enabling
   methodologies and theories, along with the data needed to test the new
   technologies, are lacking. A multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional
   effort, The Symbiotic Intelligence Project, is being developed at Los
   Alamos with other institutions to provide the needed methodologies and
   theory for this new science. Los Alamos is ideally positioned to
   coordinate and contribute to this effort as the key laboratory in the
   study of complexity, artificial life, distributed processing and
   precompetative technology transfer.

The Role of Social Evolution

   We have evolved social structures, and the supporting dynamics, which
   enabled us to "solve" problems that threaten our existence. With social
   evolution we can evolve and adjust to major changes in our environment
   within our own lifetime. Social and biological evolution use the same
   dynamic processes, and exhibit the same characteristics, inherent to
   self-organizing systems:
     * A "Solution" arises as a selection by the system dynamics from a
       diversity of potential solutions.
     * Complex global behavior is driven by loosely connected relatively
       simple, local processors.
     * The global characteristics of these systems are: functionality
       greater than the individual subsystems, robustness, persistent
       nonequilibrium, the capability to find solutions in the presence of
       conflicting needs, and scalability without loss of viability.

   In social dynamics, the "local processor" is the centralized problem
   solving of individuals, teams, organizations, and governments. This
   centralized approach relies on the premiere problem solving ability of
   humans to understand complex systems and to be able to predict their
   outcome. As a species we have gone through many fundamental
   reorganizations without centralized coordination: from hunter-gatherer
   to agricultural to industrial societies.

The Role of Technology in Social Evolution

   Technological advances have radically changed the time and size
   (length) scales of the social dynamics, the prime example being the
   increase in the maximum size of a social group. Through advances in
   communication, transportation and information storage, our largest
   social unit has grown from tribes, to cities, to city-states, to
   nations, to regional coalitions, to almost a global society. Not
   unexpectedly the next revolution will also occur because of a new
   technology, the Internet.

Unique Capabilities of the Internet

   The Internet has three significant capabilities beyond prior
   human-technological systems:
     * The Net integrates the breadth of knowledge processes: information
       storage, communication of information, traditional computing of
       huge amounts of data, and human processing of limited but complex
       information. Until recently these were physically separated
       processes that required human action to integrate.
     * The Net captures the depth of knowledge processes. The detailed
       signatures of the use of information are captured by the Net. This
       information was previously obtainable only at extreme cost.
     * The Net transmits knowledge processes accurately. Verbal
       human-to-human communication results in a rapid loss of information
       a bit removed from its creator. By contrast, information exchanged
       or related on the Net, whether in web pages or emails, suffers
       minimal loss of information during transmission or linking, in the
       same way that the contents of a book or journal are not altered
       when exchanged.

   With the stronger presence of these three capabilities in human
   information processes, we propose that a knowledge "phase change" will
   occur: these processes, which were previously lost or diminished
   before, will contribute to an enhanced self-organizing social dynamics.

A Simple Example of Collective Problem Solving on the Net

   Have you ever clicked the "Check out these related titles!" on
   Amazon.com? These lists are not constantly updated by staffs of
   librarians for 2 million books. Instead, these lists are created by
   listing books purchased by people that have also ordered the selected
   book. This is an ideal example of capturing information that was
   previously lost ("depth of knowledge processes" above) and of how
   patterns of individual behavior lead to useful collective knowledge.
   Other demonstrations have been done or are in progress that illustrate
   how humans on intelligent, distributed networks can achieve useful
   collective solutions or knowledge, but with minimal instruction and
   effort. (Show me an another example.)

Simulations of Collective Problem Solving

   Simulations are being done in T-Division at LANL (for a detailed
   discussion see: Collective Problem Solving: Functionality beyond the
   Individual ) that support the fundamental assumption that more people
   can effectively interact under "Internet-like" conditions than in
   traditional ways. These also illustrate the desirable features of a
   large and diverse self-organizing system. We ask the question: "What is
   the effect of noise or information loss on a collective decision
   involving many individuals?"

   [maze_and_base.gif]
   The insert in the figure shows the demonstration maze. The main
   figure shows the effect on the collective solutions as more individuals

   contribute to the collective solution, for two different sets of random

   numbers. The number of steps of the collective is normalized by the
   average number of steps of the individuals contributing to collective
   solution.

   The idealized problem is a maze which represents a bounded system where
   individuals are faced with a sequence of decision points that lead to a
   final goal. In the above figure, a demonstration maze is shown with two
   of the possible 14 minimum paths of 9 steps highlighted. A simulation
   consists of two phases. In the Learning Phase the individuals explore
   the maze, with no global sense of the problem, until the goal is found.
   In the Application Phase they apply, but do not modify, what they have
   learned to "solve" the problem. Because the rules in the two phases
   involve random choices, a population of individuals result which
   represent a diversity of performance and preferred paths. For now,
   these individuals are taken to be independent, because we are
   interested in isolating the effect of collective decision making from
   the processes of shared learning. To find a collective solution, the
   individual contributions are then combined in various ways and then the
   same Application Phase is applied. This collective solution is then
   compared to the average performance of the individuals in the
   collective.

   In the sample maze, the average number of steps of an individual to
   "solve" the maze is 34.3 in the Learning Phase and 12.8 in the
   Application Phase for 100 individuals. If a collective solution is
   calculated by just a simple average of the individual's contribution,
   the performance is better than the average individual when more than
   five individuals are included. Also, one of the minimum paths is found
   for collectives with more than 20 individuals. This optimal solution
   (nine) is found even though the rules have no global sense of the
   problem and do not select for a minimum path. This minimum solution is,
   therefore, an emergent property of the system. The system also exhibits
   classical chaotic behavior in that a small change in the collective
   path preference can result in an entirely different, but still near
   optimal, path.

   The collective solution is remarkably robust. Degradation of the
   individual's contribution, however implemented, generally had no effect
   on just postponed the collective convergence to the minimal path. For
   example, by appropriate modification of the individual's contribution
   to the collective, we find that the less dominant opinions of the
   individual have no effect on the performance of the overall collective
   decision (but does make the collective solution more noisy). Also the
   collective solution is insensitive to moderate amounts of random noise.

     [leader.gif]

   A few effects were found to degrade the collective solution. The worst
   degradation (figure above) was found to be the random selection of a
   "leader" during the solution, with a different individual selected at
   each node. It was also observed that the collective solution is
   degraded if only the "better" performing individuals contribute (those
   with shorter path lengths in the Application Phase) to the collective
   solution. This is a surprising result illustrating that even a
   diversity of performance is important to a collective solution. Using
   this idealized problem, it is can be shown that a diversity of learning
   experiences leads to a better performance in the collective decisions
   and that the collective is significantly more robust than the average
   individual in adapting to unexpected changes in the final goal or the
   structure of the maze.

   These simulations also give important information on how to best
   capture the diversity of the population in the creation of a
   self-organizing system. It is found that the diversity of experience in
   the problem space is essential to the collective solution, but not the
   relative importance of this experience. In contrast, it was also found
   that the individual's diversity for preference at a node is not
   important, but it is essential that the relative importance of the
   individual's preferences be captured.

   These simulations demonstrate that under the ideal conditions of the
   Net (no loss and breath and depth of diversity of an individual's
   preferences), large numbers of individuals can contribute to a
   collective decision and the collective performs much better than the
   average individual. One could imagine duplicating the same
   "simulations" on the Net, but with real individuals solving the maze,
   instead of the Learning Rules. Because the individual performance would
   likely be greatly improved, one would expect the collective solutions
   to be able to solve more complex mazes with fewer numbers of
   individuals. With the addition of the concept of a hierarchical
   structure of systems, the simple idea presented in these simulations
   can be extended to more and more complex systems. Therefore, while the
   current simulations are admittedly simplified, they may capture the
   fundamental nature of systems for collective decision making.

The Future

   The implications of the ideas under investigation are far reaching to
   the future success of organizations, society, and economics. With the
   increased use of the Net in our economy and society, many of the
   problems that have challenged traditional forms of management and
   organizations may now find solutions. The importance of this
   alternative will become more significant as the complexity of our world
   increases and our traditional ways of solving problems fail. The main
   consequence will be for management and governments to facilitate the
   use of collective problem solving when problems arise in systems that
   are not understandable.
     __________________________________________________________________

                        Learn More about the Project

    A detailed summary



    Documents related to the Project

    Subscribe to the mailing list

    Check out other Links

   FAQ

   Documents

            Links to Other Sites

                                Glossary

                                        Revision History

                                                        Send mail to webmaster
