http://ethics.od.nih.gov/Topics/official.htm

                National Institutes of Health Ethics Program

                          Official Duty Activities

   [grad_blu.gif]

   Official Duty Activities are those activities performed by an employee
   as part of, or an extension of, regular official responsibilities with
   an outside organization. An employee may participate in such activities
   only with advance approval from either their supervisor or Deputy
   Ethics Counselor, depending on the impact and length of the activity
   and internal ICD approval procedures. The following text is from the
   NIH Chapter 2300-735-4, Outside Work and Related Activities with
   Outside Organizations. For questions about specific activities, contact
   your Deputy Ethics Counselor or your ICD's Ethics Coordinator.

   Basic Guidelines for Official Duty Activities With Outside
   Organizations
    1. Activities Related to Official Duties: The activities an employee
       performs must be related to his/her official duties. Any official
       work performed with an outside organization must also be consistent
       with the authority and mission of NIH. There should be compelling
       agency policy reasons for official duty activities with outside
       organizations. Such activity should be avoided if the outside
       organization engages in lobbying or otherwise takes public
       positions on matters of significant controversy involving the NIH.
       Such activity should be limited where it is likely that the outside
       organization may become involved in legal disputes or other actions
       (e.g., medical care, personnel) that could subject it to liability.
       Because the activities are related to the employee’s job, the
       employee may use non-confidential official information:
          + that is available to the public or necessary to the work at
            hand, including information drawn from his/her current work or
            any work performed within the last 12-month period;
          + associated with previous work (i.e., any matter in which the
            employee was involved prior to the last 12-months) regardless
            of whether it has or has not been publicly disclosed; and,
          + that involves any on-going or announced NIH policy, program or
            operation (rather than the outside organization’s or the
            employee’s general scientific or professional knowledge).
    2. Compensation: An employee is compensated by the Federal government
       for performing his/her official duties. Therefore, an employee may
       not accept any form of compensation from an outside organization or
       source for performing his/her official duties. This does not
       include travel or per diem expenses which may be allowable with
       prior approval through the HHS-348 sponsored travel process.
       Acceptance of monetary awards may be permissible (see also
       Acceptance of Awards and Honorary Degrees).
    3. Official Time: An employee who performs his/her officially assigned
       duties and responsibilities with outside organizations is working
       on official time and therefore he/she is not required to take
       annual leave or leave without pay.
    4. Use of Government Resources: An employee may use Government
       equipment, supplies, services, and staff to carry out his/her
       assigned duties with outside organizations. The employee travels
       using Government travel orders, and may travel on an approved
       HHS-348 if applicable.
    5. Use of NIH Space: An employee may use NIH space and facilities when
       needed to accomplish official duty work with an outside
       organization. Meeting rooms and other space must be requested in
       the same manner as for any internal NIH function.
    6. Use of Official Titles: Outside organizations may use the official
       titles of an employee as a reference, identifier, or to promote
       attendance at public meetings or presentations, when the employee
       is participating in an official capacity.
    7. Official Duty and Outside Activities with the Same Organization: An
       employee usually may not engage in official duty activities while,
       at the same time, engage in outside activities with the same
       organization. Exception - An employee may perform outside
       activities and official duty activities with the same outside
       organization during the same time period if:
          + the outside activity involves: a position (elected or not) in
            the organization, i.e., professional association; or an
            appointment to an academic/medical institution with no
            compensation or minimal compensation and limited teaching
            responsibilities; and
          + the official duty involves the presentation of research
            related information; and
          + the employee obtains a waiver from his/her Deputy Ethics
            Counselor when the determination is made that the conflicting
            financial interest is not so substantial as to be deemed
            likely to affect the integrity of the services which the
            Government may expect from the employee. A signed waiver must
            accompany both outside activity requests and requests for
            payment-in-kind (HHS-348). Appendices 1 and 2 contain sample
            waiver and authorization requests.
    8. Advance Approval Required: Official duty activities must be
       requested and approved before an employee can participate in an
       activity with an outside organization. Deputy Ethics Counselors
       must approve official duty requests, although consistent with the
       delegation of authority, they may delegate to supervisors the
       authority to approve short term official duty activities (e.g.,
       less than a year) with outside organizations, such as participating
       in or organizing a scientific symposium or seminar, or presenting
       speeches at public events that are related to the employee’s own
       research conducted within the last 12-month period. Each ICD may
       determine whether such permission will be given verbally or in
       writing.
    9. Participation in the Business Affairs of Outside Organizations: An
       employee performing an official duty activity may not participate
       in making decisions or taking actions that affect the internal
       business affairs of the organization, including:
          + personnel actions regarding the staff of the organization
            and/or establishing their compensation and benefits;
          + the financial management of the organization, including
            sources and disposition of the income of the organization,
            management of investment portfolios, or other related matters;
            or,
          + fund-raising activities.
       This type of participation MAY be authorized for employees who
       serve as officers or directors of outside organizations under
       compelling conditions AND with a waiver.

   Types of Official Duty Activities

   The following activities are examples of acceptable official duty
   activities at NIH:
    1. Service on Scientific Advisory or Editorial Review Boards: An
       employee may serve without compensation on scientific advisory and
       editorial review boards with outside organizations to render advice
       on scientific or educational matters. For science advisory board
       service, an employee’s participation must involve only providing
       advice and/or making non-binding recommendations. If the science
       advisory board actually makes binding decisions on whether policy
       will be implemented, then membership on the board must be performed
       as an outside activity, or the employee must have a waiver. See
       Appendix 1, Sample 2, of NIH Chapter 2300-735-4 for instructions
       and sample waivers. This activity may also be performed as a
       Federal Liaison (see Federal Liaison Activities, below). For
       additional review board service, an employee may perform peer
       review, select articles for final publication, determine which peer
       reviewers are appropriate, and participate in editorial board
       policy making. If participation entails management activities, then
       the employee must serve in a personal capacity (i.e., approved
       outside activity)or have a waiver.
    2. Writing and Editing: An employee may write books, chapters,
       forewords, articles, or edit scientific articles and journals in
       his or her area of professional or scientific expertise for outside
       organizations without compensation.
    3. Speaking and Lecturing: An employee may give uncompensated speeches
       or lectures at meetings, seminars, and other gatherings open to the
       public. The topics may come from the employee’s general scientific
       or professional expertise or past or present work at NIH. With
       appropriate impact on the NIH mission and approval, some
       uncompensated teaching or lecturing may be done as an official duty
       activity. See Appendix 9 of NIH Chapter 2300-735-4 for information
       on invitations to widely attended gatherings.
    4. Service as Members of Boards of Directors: Based on recent rulings
       by the Department of Justice and the Office of Government Ethics,
       employees incur a fiduciary responsibility when they serve as a
       member of a Board of Directors (elected or not) for an outside
       organization or professional association as part of his/her
       official duties. This presents a conflict of interest, and as such,
       it prohibits a federal employee from serving in an official
       capacity as an officer, director, board member, or trustee of an
       outside organization unless the employee fits one of the following:
          + Serves in the capacity of a non-voting, Federal liaison to the
            organization’s Board of Directors. As a Federal liaison, the
            employee would be the official DHHS/NIH representative to the
            organization, and would present and receive information and
            views on behalf of DHHS/NIH. The employee would not serve as
            an officer or director of the outside organization. The
            employee could also coordinate joint activities of NIH and the
            outside organization. As Federal liaison, the employee may not
            be concerned or involved with the internal business affairs of
            the organization. The liaison’s only duty is to the
            Government.
          + Receives a waiver under 18 U.S.C. Section 208 (b). An employee
            may receive a waiver upon a written determination that the
            conflicting financial interest is not so substantial as to be
            deemed likely to affect the integrity of the services which
            the Government may expect of the employee. See Appendix 1 of
            NIH Chapter 2300-735-4 for a sample waiver.
          + Serves in this capacity on his/her own time as an approved
            outside activity.

   Federal Liaison Activities

   For some activities with outside organizations, it is important that an
   employee formally represent the interests of NIH. When an employee is
   asked to serve as a spokesperson for NIH policies or programs with an
   outside organization, he/she is designated as a Federal liaison to the
   organization.
    1. A Federal liaison must serve as a non-voting, non-fiduciary agency
       representative to the outside organization. (In some standard
       setting organizations, there is authority for the Federal Liaisons
       to vote.)
    2. An employee serving in this capacity must not participate in the
       internal or business affairs, or fund-raising activities of the
       outside organization.
    3. For all other purposes, the employee is subject to the same
       provisions that apply to NIH employees engaged in official duty
       activities.
    4. An employee may participate as a Federal liaison on Government
       time, use Government equipment and services, and travel on
       Government travel orders.
    5. As a Federal liaison, an employee may serve as a liaison to a
       scientific advisory or review board (see Section 1. Service on
       Scientific Advisory or Editorial Review Boards, above).

   For additional information, contact your Deputy Ethics Counselor or
   your ICD's Ethics Coordinator.

   Updated: 11/02/99.
   _______________________________________________________________________

   [back.gif] Return to Ethics Home Page
