http://bisc.jpl.nasa.gov/public/theteam.htm

   topbanner.jpg (28031 bytes)

   Home

   WITS for FIDO
   WITS for Polar Lander
   WITS for Sojourner
   Awards and Publications
   Contact
   The Team
   Acknowledgements

                                The WITS Team

   paul.jpg (13309 bytes) Paul Backes is a technical group leader in the
   Automomy and Control section at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
   Pasadena, CA, where he has been since 1987. He received the BSME degree
   from U.C. Berkeley in 1982, and MSME in 1984 and Ph.D. in 1987 in
   Mechanical Engineering from Purdue University. He is currently
   responsible for distributed operations research for Mars lander and
   rover missions at JPL. Dr. Backes received the 1993 NASA Exceptional
   Engineering Achievement Medal for his contributions to space
   telerobotics (one of thirteen throughout NASA), 1993 Space Station
   Award of Merit, Best Paper Award at the 1994 World Automation Congress,
   1995 JPL Technology and Applications Program Exceptional Service Award,
   1998 JPL Award for Excellence and 1998 Sole Runner-up NASA Software of
   the Year Award. He has served as an Associate Editor of the IEEE
   Robotics and Automation Society Magazine.  Paul initiated the
   development of WITS and is the WITS team leader.

   jeff.jpg (16363 bytes) Jeff Norris is a computer scientist and member
   of the technical staff of the Autonomy and Control Section at the Jet
   Propulsion Laboratory. He specializes in software engineering for
   telerobotics, distributed operations, machine vision, and large scale
   interfaces. He received his Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in
   Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT. While an
   undergraduate, he worked at the MIT Media Laboratory on data
   visualization and media transport protocols. He completed his Master’s
   thesis on face detection and recognition at the MIT Artificial
   Intelligence Laboratory. He now lives with his wife, Kamala,  in Azusa,
   California.

   tharp.jpg (15715 bytes) Gregory K. Tharp is a research engineer at IA
   Tech Inc.  He has worked in robotics, computer graphics and computer
   vision for over ten years. On the WITS team he is responsible for the
   3D graphics and simulation of the robot arm. He received his Bachelor's
   and Master's degrees in Mechanical Engineering from U.C. Berkeley.


   tso.jpg (15731 bytes) Kam Sing Tso is the cofounder and Vice President
   of IA Tech, Inc., a small business specializing in Internet
   technologies, distributed and fault-tolerant systems, intelligent
   agents, and robotics.  He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from
   the University of California, Los Angeles, and B.S. in Electronics from
   the Chinese University of Hong Kong.  He is one of the developers of
   WITS under a contract from the NASA Small Business Innovation Research
   program.

   These pages are maintained by Jeff Norris.
