http://www.treasurydirect.gov/sec/secmtn.htm

   skip to main content
   T-Bills, Notes, and Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

         Virtual Lobby | Upcoming Auctions | Recent Auctions: Bills
      Recent Auctions: Notes & Bonds | Secondary Market Rates | E-mail
                                   Reports

                    Maintaining a TreasuryDirect Account
                      for Treasury Bills, Notes & Bonds

   So, you've bought a Treasury bill, note, or bond in TreasuryDirect?
   Good! But what do you do now?

   Here's an overview of the issues you will or may encounter:
     * STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT. If we haven't already done this, we will soon
       mail you a Statement of Account. In addition to this initial one,
       we will mail you these statements any time you engage in a
       transaction that changes the par amount of your account. Also, you
       can order statements through TreasuryDirect Electronic Services.
       Statements of Account provide an overview of your holdings and are
       a valuable record-keeping tool.
     * REINVESTMENT. When you bought your security, you may have indicated
       you want to reinvest it when it matures. If you didn't make that
       indication, then about 45 days before maturity we will mail you a
       Reinvest Direct Notice. This notice will list the securities in
       which you can reinvest and explain how to schedule a reinvestment.
       If you don't reinvest, we will redeem your security when it
       matures.
     * TAXATION. Treasury securities are exempt from state and local
       taxes. We'll mail you the appropriate federal tax documents.
     * MAINTENANCE FEE. We impose our annual account maintenance fee only
       on accounts that have more than $100,000 in holdings. If you fall
       into that category, we will bill you. The fee is $25.
     * ACCOUNT CHANGES. Changing your account arrangements or information
       is easy.
     * COMMUNICATIONS and TRANSACTIONS. Depending on what you need, you
       can transact business or communicate with us through four methods:
          + TreasuryDirect Electronic Services. We're just a few mouse
            clicks or a toll-free phone call away!
          + 800-722-2678. This toll-free phone number is the gateway to:
               o customer service representatives (available 8 a.m. to 8
                 p.m., Eastern Time, Monday through Friday)
               o recorded information
               o TreasuryDirect Electronic Services on the phone
          + Mail. Send letters or documents to your TreasuryDirect office.
            If you need to complete one (or more) of our forms, you can
            download or order it here.
          + E-mail.
     * INFORMATION. The TreasuryDirect web site and our toll-free phone
       number, 800-722-2678, are good sources of information, as are our
       forms and publications. You can download or order our forms and
       publications. For an excellent overview of TreasuryDirect, we
       recommend our TreasuryDirect Investor Kit (PD P 009).

                          Updated January 10, 2002
