http://oco.eom.dc.gov/services/community_outreach/index.shtm

   Welcome to Washington, DC

   Home
   Citizen Services
   Business Services
   Mayor's Office
   Mayor's Scorecards
   DC Council
   City Goverment
   Visitor Information
   Mayor Anthony A. Williams

   Office of Community Outreach

   OCO HOME
   SERVICES
   Community Events
   Neighborhood Service
      Initiative
   Email Outreach
   INFORMATION
   ONLINE SERVICE
     REQUESTS

   Email Outreach

   Mayor Anthony Williams created two community email lists in his
   continuing efforts to provide an open and responsive government. These
   email lists will help him keep in touch with constituents. Submit your
   email address today, and keep abreast of mayoral activities and
   policies that are important to him and to you, a resident of the
   District of Columbia.

   The Mayor's District List is reserved to communicate with you about
   important policies and pressing issues. Expect mail from this list
   monthly, approximately.

   [ ]    I would like you to add my email address to the Mayor's District
   List

     [ ]   Please remove my email address from the Mayor's District List

   The Mayor's Circle List will receive the information described above
   plus email about the Mayor's schedule, noteworthy upcoming community
   events, and other items of city-wide interest. Expect email from this
   list weekly, approximately.

   [ ]   I would like you to add my email address to the Mayor's Circle
   List

     [ ]   Please remove my email address from the Mayor's Circle List

   You are free to subscribe or unsubscribe to these lists at any time.
   Subscriptions to the Mayor's District List are processed automatically.
   Allow one week to process subscriptions to the Mayor's Circle List.

   Submit

   Directory by Topic
   Elected Officials
   Contact and Services
   Search
   Events
   DC Government Agencies

   Click Here To Visit The Official Website of the Government of the
   District of Columbia Government of the District of Columbia
   John A. Wilson Building
   1350 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20004
   Citywide Call Center: (202) 727-1000
   Feedback & Comments | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions of Use
