http://en-env.llnl.gov/asd/

   Atmospheric Science : Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory


   Privacy & Legal Notice
   Atmospheric Chemistry and Aerosols
   ARAC - Atmospheric Release Advisory Capability
   CCCM - Climate and Carbon Cycle Modeling
   PCMDI - Program for Climate Model Daignosis and Intercomparison
   Regional Modeling and Dispersion
   Urban Modeling and Dispersion
   Contact Us
   Energy & Environment Directorate
   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
   [return2.jpg]


   _________ Search

     Atmospheric Science Division

     Atmospheric scientists at LLNL are working to improve the scientific
     understanding of the mechanisms of global environmental and climatic
     change through the development and diagnosis of state-of-the-art
     models that represent key processes affecting the atmosphere,
     oceans, and biosphere. We pursue this mission for the purpose of
     improving national energy and security policies that impact climate
     and environmental change. Teams are mobilized across groups to
     address important policy-relevant issues and to develop models
     capable of addressing these issues. We have major efforts devoted
     towards:
     * Understanding the transport, diffusion, deposition, transformation
       ,and atmospheric effects of pollutants.
     * Developing and testing models for the improved representation of
       physical processes in local- to global-scale atmospheric models.
     * Understanding the uptake and removal of carbon dioxide emitted
       through fossil fuel combustion by the biosphere and oceans so that
       the effects of future emissions may be accurately predicted.
     * Understanding the role of pollutants from fossil fuel emissions in
       determining greenhouse gas and aerosol concentrations and climate
       forcing.
     * Understanding and predicting the extent to which stratospheric
       ozone may decrease as a result of anthropogenic emissions.
     * Understanding and quantifying the natural variability of the
       climate system.
     * Understanding and quantifying interactions between the biosphere
       and climate.These major efforts all stem from the need to be able
       to predict the global and regional environment and its changing
       nature over the next few decades, so that policy makers will have
       the information needed for the formulation of rational energy-use
       goals.

     Follow the links below for examples of some of our recent work.

     [weathericon.gif] Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory's Weather
     Pages -- access to current local meterological conditions and links
     to other weather-related sites


     Development of an integrated remote sensing/atmospheric modeling
     program to address issues related to observing atmospheric phenomena
     for purposes of model initialization, evaluation and diagnosis.

     Applying integrated atmospheric and environmental sensors coupled to
     models to calculate consequence assessments regarding sources of
     chemical or radionuclide pollutants, including the predictions of
     fallout from near-surface and surface nuclear bursts.

     Global Carbon Cycle Modeling, and Tracing the Effects of CO[2] in
     Global Warming (Adobe .pdf document)

     Ocean Modeling

     High-Performance Global Climate Modeling.

     Coupled ocean/atmospheric modeling on high-performance computing
     systems (Adobe .pdf document)

     High-Performance Chemistry-Transport Modeling.

     Applying three-dimensional atmospheric models coupled to hydrology
     models to study elements of the water budget for the western US,
     particularly California.

     Effects of Tropospheric Aerosols on Radiative Flux Calculations at
     UV and Visible Wavelengths.

     Studies of cloud microphysics and the modeling of convective,
     stratus, and cirrus clouds.

     Visualization of model results

     Climate Forcing by Anthropogenic Aerosols

     The Chemical and Radiative Effects of the Mount Pinatubo Eruption

     For additional information on LLNL's Atmospheric Sciences Division,
     contact:

     dannevik1@llnl.gov -- William P. Dannevik
     * Links to other Meteorological Pages


                   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
                      Last updated September 20, 2001.
                               UCRL-MI-120684
                    Technical Problems: enevtech@llnl.gov
   [rtborder.jpg]
