http://allard.senate.gov/press/releases/012402.pdf

   For Release: Contact: Sean Conway January 24, 2002 (202) 224-6207 Kelly
   Brady (202) 224-5946 ALLARD SEEKS PRICE REDUCTION FROM YALE UNIVERSITY
   FOR BACA RANCH SAYS YALE SHOULD REDUCE SELLING PRICE FOR TAXPAYERS
   Washington, D.C.  U.S. Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO) today asked the Yale
   University Foundation to reduce their asking price for the Baca Ranch
   in order to save taxpayers millions of dollars on the purchase of the
   ranch. The ranch is located in the San Luis Valley in southern
   Colorado. It was reported last week that Yale University has secretly
   owned for several years a 50 percent share of Vaca Partners, a
   for-profit limited partnership. Vaca Partners owns a 50 percent stake
   in Cabeza de Baca LLC, the owner of the ranch. The purchase price is
   expected to exceed more than $30 million. Congress has approved $10
   million in funding toward the purchase of the ranch from the Land and
   Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). An agreement to sell the ranch to the
   Nature Conservancy is expected to be completed within the next few
   weeks. "For one of America's oldest universities to have been involved
   in a venture that could of lead to the destruction of one of our
   nation's great landmarks is extremely disappointing," said Senator
   Allard. "In light of these developments, I believe Yale University owes
   it to the taxpayers to lower their asking price on the Baca Ranch." In
   2000, Senator Allard and Colorado Third District U.S. Representative
   Scott McInnis successfully pushed legislation through Congress to allow
   for the purchase of the Baca Ranch and the creation of the Great Sand
   Dunes National Park. The legislative effort was spurred to protect the
   aquifer beneath the dunes. The legislation was supported by Colorado
   Governor Bill Owens and Colorado Attorney Ken Salazar. "According to
   published reports, Yale University secretly supported efforts to export
   water from the San Luis Valley as part owners of the ranch," added
   Senator Allard. "For them now to profit at taxpayers expense from those
   actions is not only unseemly, but simply outrageous. ###
