http://tahoe.ceres.ca.gov/stms/index.html

                          South Tahoe Middle School's
                     Trout Creek Service-Learning Project:

An environmental education-based program

                               [line_mar.gif]

  Project Mission

   The Trout Creek Service-Learning Project incorporates community service
   activities throughout the middle school curriculum. This project will
   demonstrate to students their ability as citizens to effect positive
   change in their community. The project will increase student's self
   esteem, using the natural laboratory of Lake Tahoe to make science come
   alive.

  Project Background

   The Trout Creek Service-Learning Project grew out of a curriculum
   development project sponsored by the U.S. Forest Service, Lake Tahoe
   Basin Management Unit called the "Living Watershed Project". The goal
   of this cooperative effort was to develop student's awareness and
   knowledge of the environment and its fragile nature. The field study
   emphasis of the Living Watershed Project provides the basic curriculum
   for the current effort, enriching it through cooperative service field
   projects.

  Project Elements

   Our project has, and will continue to have three main components:
     * Service Projects. Our service projects focus on meeting the
       community's need in a clean environment which empowers students to
       make positive change and facilitate classroom learning.
     * Community Outreach. A key element to project sustainability is
       building and maintaining community partnerships. We do this through
       student produced videos that are broadcast on our local public
       broadcast channel and establishing community mentorships with
       classrooms.
     * On-line Project Communications . This element is presenting our
       program to the community and the world on the Internet.

      For more information contact Diana Reiner or Kelli Taylor, Project
      Coordinators
      South Tahoe Middle School
      P.O. Box 14426
      So. Lake Tahoe, CA 96151
      916.543.2300
      email:reinermitchell@mail.telis.org

                               [LINE_MAR.GIF]

        The Trout Creek Service-Learning Project is brought to you by the
        CalServe Partnership sponsored by the California Department of Education
        and by the National Corporation for Service.
