http://www.cpsc.gov/privacy.html

                         Privacy and Security Notice

    1. The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission provides these World
       Wide Web pages as a public service.
    2. We will not collect personal information about any visitor to this
       site unless it is voluntarily given to us.
    3. Information presented on these pages is public information. You may
       freely distribute, copy, or link to any of the information
       presented. If you do so, please use appropriate byline/photo/image
       credit.
    4. In order to manage our site, we collect some information for
       statistical purposes. This is standard information which is
       automatically collected and stored in log files; it does not
       identify a visitor personally. This government computer system uses
       software programs to analyze the data and furnish statistics. We
       use the statistics for such purposes as assessing what information
       is of most and least interest to users, improving technical design
       specifications, and identifying performance or problem areas.
    5. To ensure the security of the site and to ensure that the service
       remains available to all users, this government security system
       employs software programs to monitor network traffic so we can
       identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or
       otherwise cause damage.
    6. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information
       on this service are strictly prohibited. Such attempts may be
       punishable under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the
       National Information Infrastructure Protection Act.
    7. We do not attempt to identify users of the site or their usage
       habits. The exceptions to this are the questionnaires listed in
       "Report unsafe products" on our home page, which are entirely
       voluntary, and authorized law enforcement investigations. The only
       "cookies" that are written to a user's computer contain data sent
       during the process of reporting injuries or hazards, or subscribing
       to our mailing list. The data sent for such a "cookie" is only a
       random computer-generated number for use regarding session
       continuity, which does not enable us to identify you and contains
       no information provided by you.
    8. If you identify yourself by sending an E-mail to CPSC or filling
       out a web site form, any personal information provided is used only
       to respond to your message, and will not be disclosed outside of
       the agency without explicit permission. If the purpose of the email
       or form is to file a complaint about the safety of a consumer
       product, the information (which is collected by authority of 15
       U.S.C. 2054) will be entered into a database by a Consumer Product
       Safety Commission contractor. The information may be shared with
       product manufacturers, distributors, or retailers, but again, no
       names or other personal information will be disclosed without
       explicit permission.
    9. If you have questions or comments about the information presented
       here, please forward them to mcohn@cpsc.gov.
