http://hurricanes.noaa.gov/pdf/hurricanebook.pdf

   Hurricane Basics For More Information Websites: NOAA - www.noaa.gov
   National Hurricane Center - www.nhc.noaa.gov National Hurricane Center
   Public Affairs (305) 229-4404 National Weather Service Public Affairs
   (301) 713-0622 May 1999 Hurricane Fast Facts What is a Hurricane? A
   "hurricane" is the most severe category of the meteorological
   phenomenon known as the "tropical cyclone." Tropical cyclones are low
   pressure systems that have thunderstorm activity and rotate
   counterclockwise. A tropical cyclone that has winds of 38 mph (33 kt)
   or less is called a tropical depression. When the tropical cyclone's
   winds reach 39-73 mph (34-63 kt), it is called a tropical storm. When
   the winds exceed 74 mph (64 kt), the storm is considered to be a
   hurricane. The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale defines hurricane
   strength by categories. A Category 1 storm is the weakest hurricane
   (winds 74-95 mph or 64-82 kt); a Category 5 hurricane is the strongest
   (winds greater than 155 mph or 135 kt). The category of the storm does
   not necessarily relate directly to the damage it will inflict. Lower
   category storms (and even tropical storms) can cause substantial damage
   depending on what other weather features they interact with, where they
   strike, and how slow they move. Anatomy of a Hurricane Typical
   hurricanes are about 300 miles wide although they can vary considerably
   in size. The eye at a hurricane's center is a relatively calm, clear
   area approximately 20-40 miles across. The eyewall surrounding the eye
   is composed of dense clouds that contain the highest winds in the
   storm. The storm's outer rainbands (often with hurricane or tropical
   storm-force winds) are made up of dense bands of thunderstorms ranging
   from a few miles to tens of miles wide and 50 to 300 miles long.
   Hurricane-force winds can extend outward to about 25 miles in a small
   hurricane and to more than 150 miles for a large one. Tropical
   storm-force winds can stretch out as far as 300 miles from the center
   of a large hurricane. Frequently, the right side of a hurricane is the
   most dangerous in terms of storm surge, winds, and tornadoes. A
   hurricane's speed and path depend on complex ocean and atmospheric
   interactions, including the presence or absence of other weather
   patterns. This complexity of the flow makes it very difficult to
   predict the speed and direction of a hurricane. Do not focus on the eye
   or the trackhurricanes are immense systems that can move in complex
   patterns that are difficult to predict. Be prepared for changes in
   size, intensity, speed, and direction. How Tropical Cyclones are
   Observed Direct measurements of tropical storm and hurricane dimensions
   and wind speeds are taken primarily by reconnaissance aircraft,
   although ships and buoys also take important measurements. Once a
   hurricane is near and/or on land, Automated Surface Observation Systems
   (ASOS) provide surface conditions, and radio sondes take upper air
   measurements. Indirect observational methods include satellite imagery
   and Doppler radar. In particular, satellites have greatly improved our
   ability to monitor and understand hurricanes. Radar data are important
   once the storm comes close to shore and after landfall for forecasting
   hurricane-related weather. http://hurricanes.noaa.gov www.nws.noaa.gov
   www.noaa.gov Hurricane Basics There is nothing like them in the
   atmosphere. Born in warm tropical waters, these spiraling masses
   require a complex combination of atmospheric processes to grow, mature,
   and then die. They are not the largest storm systems in our atmosphere
   or the most violent, but they combine these qualities as no other
   phenomenon does. In the Atlantic Basin, they are called hurricanes, a
   term that echoes colonial Spanish and Caribbean Indian words for evil
   spirits and big winds. These awesome storms have been a deadly problem
   for residents and sailors ever since the early days of colonization.
   Today, hurricane damage costs billions of dollars. During this century,
   23 hurricanes have each caused damage in excess of $1 billion (adjusted
   for inflation). Damage from Hurricane Andrew (1992) alone was estimated
   at more than $25 billion in South Florida and Louisiana and undoubtedly
   would have been higher had the storm hit Miami directly. Thankfully,
   the number of people injured or killed during tropical cyclones in the
   United States has been declining, largely because of improvements in
   forecasting and emergency preparedness. Nonetheless, our risk from
   hurricanes is increasing. With population and development continuing to
   increase along coastal areas, greater numbers of people and property
   are vulnerable to hurricane threat. Large numbers of tourists also
   favor coastal locations, adding greatly to the problems of emergency
   managers and local decision makers during a hurricane threat.
   Hurricanes cannot be controlled, but our vulnerability can be reduced
   through preparedness. Local decision makers must make difficult choices
   between public safety and possible economic losses when faced with a
   hurricane, but these decisions will be solid if they are based on an
   understanding of hurricanes, their hazards, the value and limitations
   of forecasts, and a good decision-making process. The Richelieu
   Apartments before Hurricane Camille The Richelieu Apartments after
   Hurricane Camille Hurricane Basics The ingredients for a hurricane
   include a pre-existing weather disturbance, warm tropical oceans,
   moisture, and relatively light winds aloft. If the right conditions
   persist long enough, they can combine to produce the violent winds,
   incredible waves, torrential rains, and floods we associate with this
   phenomenon. Each year, an average of ten tropical storms develop over
   the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, and Gulf of Mexico. Many of these
   remain over the ocean. Six of these storms become hurricanes each year.
   In an average 3-yearperiod, roughly five hurricanes strike the United
   States coastline, killing approximately 50 to 100 people anywhere from
   Texas to Maine. Of these, two are typically major hurricanes (winds
   greater than 110 mph). Hurricane Bonnie, 1998 What is a Hurricane? A
   hurricane is a type of tropical cyclone, which is a generic term for a
   low pressure system that generally forms in the tropics. The cyclone is
   accompanied by thunderstorms and, in the Northern Hemisphere, a
   counterclockwise circulation of winds near the earth's surface.
   Tropical cyclones are classified as follows: Tropical An organized
   system of clouds and thunderstorms with Depression a defined surface
   circulation and maximum sustained winds* of 38 mph (33 kt**) or less
   Tropical Storm An organized system of strong thunderstorms with a
   defined surface circulation and maximum sustained winds of 39-73 mph
   (34-63 kt) Hurricane An intense tropical weather system of strong
   thunderstorms with a well-defined surface circulation and maximum
   sustained winds of 74 mph (64 kt) or higher * Sustained winds are
   defined as a 1-minute average wind measured at about 33 ft (10 meters)
   above the surface. ** 1 knot = 1 nautical mile per hour or 1.15 statute
   miles per hour. Abbreviated as "kt". Hurricanes are categorized
   according to the strength of their winds using the Saffir-Simpson
   Hurricane Scale A Category 1 storm has the lowest wind speeds, while a
   Category 5 hurricane has the strongest. These are relative terms,
   because lower category storms can sometimes inflict greater damage than
   higher category storms, depending on where they strike and the
   particular hazards they bring. In fact, tropical storms can also
   produce significant damage and loss of life, mainly due to flooding. .
   Hurricane Names When the winds from these storms reach 39 mph (34 kt),
   the cyclone is given a name. Years ago, an international committee
   developed six separate lists of names for these storms . Each list
   alternates between male and female names. The use of these easily
   remembered names greatly reduces confusion when two or more tropical
   cyclones occur at the same time. Each list is reused every six years,
   although hurricane names that have resulted in substantial damage or
   death are retired. Hurricane Basics (cont.) Hurricane Names Assigned
   between 1999 and 2004 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Arlene Alberto
   Allison Arthur Ana Alex Bret Beryl Barry Bertha Bill Bonnie Cindy Chris
   Chantal Cristobal Claudette Charley Dennis Debby Dean Dolly Danny
   Danielle Emily Ernesto Erin Edouard Erika Earl Floyd Florence Felix Fay
   Fabian Frances Gert Gordon Gabrielle Gustav Grace Gaston Harvey Helene
   Humberto Hanna Henri Hermine Irene Isaac Iris Isidore Isabel Ivan Jose
   Joyce Jerry Josephine Juan Jeanne Katrina Keith Karen Kyle Kate Karl
   Lenny Leslie Lorenzo Lili Larry Lisa Maria Michael Michelle Marco Mindy
   Matthew Nate Nadine Noel Nana Nicholas Nicole Ophelia Oscar Olga Omar
   Odette Otto Philippe Patty Pablo Paloma Peter Paula Rita Rafael Rebekah
   Rene Rose Richard Stan Sandy Sebastien Sally Sam Shary Tammy Tony Tanya
   Teddy Teresa Tomas Vince Valerie Van Vicky Victor Virginie Wilma
   William Wendy Wilfred Wanda Walter Origin and Life Cycle The Birth of a
   Tropical Cyclone Tropical cyclones form over warm waters from
   pre-existing disturbances. These disturbances typically emerge every
   three or four days from the coast of Africa as "tropical waves" that
   consist of areas of unsettled weather. Tropical cyclones can also form
   from the trailing ends of cold fronts and occasionally from upper-level
   lows. The process by which a tropical cyclone forms and subsequently
   strengthens into a hurricane depends on at least three conditions shown
   in the figure below 1. A pre-existing disturbance with thunderstorms 2.
   Warm (at least 80ºF) ocean temperatures to a depth of about 150 feet 3.
   Light upper level winds that do not change much in direction and speed
   throughout the depth of the atmosphere (low wind shear) Heat and energy
   for the storm are gathered by the disturbance through contact with warm
   ocean waters. The winds near the ocean surface spiral into the
   disturbance's low pressure area. The warm ocean waters add moisture and
   heat to the air which rises. As the moisture condenses into drops, more
   heat is released, contributing additional energy to power the storm.
   Bands of thunderstorms form, and the storm's cloud tops rise higher
   into the atmosphere. If the winds at these high levels remain
   relatively light (little or no wind shear), the storm can remain intact
   and continue to strengthen. Origin and Life Cycle (cont.) Stages of
   Hurricane Development Growth and Maturity In these early stages, the
   system appears on the satellite image as a relatively unorganized
   cluster of thunderstorms. If weather and ocean conditions continue to
   be favorable, the system can strengthen and become a tropical
   depression (winds less than 38 mph or 33 kt). At this point, the storm
   begins to take on the familiar spiral appearance due to the flow of the
   winds and the rotation of the earth. If the storm continues to
   strengthen to tropical storm status (winds 39-73 mph, 34-63 kt), the
   bands of thunderstorms contribute additional heat and moisture to the
   storm. The storm becomes a hurricane when winds reach a minimum of 74
   mph (64 kt). At this time, the cloud-free hurricane eye typically forms
   because rapidly sinking air at the center dries and warms the area.
   During their life span, hurricanes can last for more than two weeks
   over the ocean and can travel up the entire Atlantic Coast. The Storm's
   End Just as many factors contribute to the birth of a hurricane, there
   are many reasons why a hurricane begins to decay. Wind Three stages of
   tropical cyclone development shear can tear the hurricane apart. Moving
   over cooler water or drier areas can lead to weakening as well.
   Landfall typically shuts off the hurricane's main moisture source, and
   the surface circulation can be reduced by friction when it passes over
   land. Generally, a weakening hurricane or tropical cyclone can
   reintensify if it moves into a more favorable region or interacts with
   mid-latitude frontal systems. Structure Contrary to how many weather
   maps appear, a hurricane is more than a point on a weather map, and its
   path is more than a line. It is a large system that can affect a wide
   area, requiring that precautions be taken far from where the eye is
   predicted to come ashore. Hurricane Structure The main parts of a
   hurricane are the rainbands on its outer edges, the eye, and the
   eyewall. Air spirals in toward the center in a counter-clockwise
   pattern, and out the top in the opposite direction. In the very center
   of the storm, air sinks, forming the cloud-free eye. The Eye The
   hurricane's center is a relatively calm, clear area usually 20-40 miles
   across. People in the midst of a hurricane are often amazed at how the
   incredibly fierce winds and rain can suddenly stop and the sky clear
   when the eye comes over them. Then, just as quickly, the winds and rain
   begin again, but this time from the opposite direction. Details of the
   hurricane eye's structure Structure (cont.) The Eyewall The dense wall
   of thunderstorms surrounding the eye has the strongest winds within the
   storm. Changes in the structure of the eye and eyewall can cause
   changes in the wind speed, which is an indicator of the storm's
   intensity. The eye can grow or shrink in size, and double (concentric)
   eyewalls can form. The Spiral Rainbands The storm's outer rainbands
   (often with hurricane or tropical storm-force winds) can extend a few
   hundred miles from the center. Hurricane Andrew's (1992) rainbands
   reached only 100 miles out from the eye, while those in Hurricane
   Gilbert (1988) stretched over 500 miles. These dense bands of
   thunderstorms, which spiral slowly counterclockwise, range in width
   from a few miles to tens of miles and are 50 to 300 miles long.
   Sometimes the bands and the eye are obscured by higher level clouds,
   making it difficult for forecasters to use satellite imagery to monitor
   the storm. Hurricane Size Typical hurricanes are about 300 miles wide
   although they can vary considerably, as shown in the two enhanced
   satellite images below. Size is not necessarily an indication of
   hurricane intensity. Hurricane Andrew (1992), the most devastating
   hurricane of this century, was a relatively small hurricane. Hurricane
   Danny (left) in 1997 and Hurricane Fran in 1996 show the variability in
   hurricane size Hurricane destructive winds and rains cover a wide
   swath. Hurricane-force winds can extend outward to about 25 miles from
   the storm center of a small hurricane and to more than 150 miles for a
   large one. The area over which tropical storm-force winds occur is even
   greater , ranging as far out as almost 300 miles from the eye of a
   large hurricane. Structure (cont.) Hurricane Circulation and Movement
   In the northern hemisphere, hurricane winds circulate around the center
   in a counter-clockwise fashion. This means that the wind direction at
   your location depends on where the hurricane's eye is. A boat on the
   northern edge of the orange area in Hurricane Fran would experience
   winds from the east, while a boat on the southern edge would have
   westerly winds. A hurricane's speed and path depend on complex
   interactions between the storm with its own internal circulations and
   the earth's atmosphere. The air in which the hurricane is embedded is a
   constantly moving and changing "river" of air. Other features in that
   flow, such as high and low pressure systems, can greatly alter the
   speed and the path of the hurricane. In turn, it can modify the
   environment around the storm. Typically, a hurricane's forward speed
   averages around 15-20 mph. However, some hurricanes stall, often
   causing devastatingly heavy rain. Others can accelerate to more than 60
   mph. Hurricane Hazel (1954) hit North Carolina on the morning of 15
   October; fourteen hours later it reached Toronto, Canada where it
   caused 80 deaths. Some hurricanes follow a fairly straight course,
   while others loop and wobble along the path These seemingly erratic
   changes are difficult to forecast and will be discussed in more detail
   in the Forecasting section of this module. Track of Hurricane Gordon,
   1994 The Right Side of the Storm As a general rule of thumb, the
   hurricane's right side (relative to the direction it is travelling) is
   the most dangerous part of the storm because of the additive effect of
   the hurricane wind speed and speed of the larger atmospheric flow (the
   steering winds). The increased winds on the right side increase the
   storm surge. Tornadoes are also more common here. Looking at the figure
   above, pretend you are standing behind the hurricane with your back to
   the steering flow. In this case, the right side is the eastern section
   of the hurricane. (If it were travelling east to west, the right side
   would be the north section.) The winds around the hurricane's eye are
   moving in a counterclockwise fashion. At Point A, the hurricane winds
   are nearly in line with the steering wind, adding to the strength of
   the winds. For example, if the steering currents are 30 mph and the
   average hurricane winds are 100 mph, the wind speed would be 130 mph at
   Point A. On the other hand, the winds at Point B are moving opposite
   those of the steering wind and therefore slow to 70 mph (100 - 30 mph).
   Incidentally, National Huricane Center forecasts take this effect into
   account in their official wind estimates. Observation NOAA's National
   Weather Service (NWS) has several tools to monitor hurricanes. While
   they are still far out in the ocean, indirect measurements using
   satellites are the main tool, although ships and buoys also provide
   observations. Once the storms come closer to land, more direct
   measurements (reconnaissance aircraft, radiosondes, and Automated
   Surface Observing Stations) are also used. Within about 200 miles of
   the coast, radar provide important indirect measurements of the storm.
   Computer models used to forecast storm intensity and movement require a
   great deal of data about the atmosphere. Lack of observations
   (especially over the ocean) and errors and inconsistencies in the data
   are major sources of forecast errors. Hurricane Hazards The main
   hazards associated with tropical cyclones and especially hurricanes are
   storm surge, high winds, heavy rain, and flooding, as well as
   tornadoes. The intensity of a hurricane is an indicator of damage
   potential. However, impacts are a function of where and when the storm
   strikes. Hurricane Diane (1955) hit the northeastern U.S. and caused
   184 deaths. It was only a Category 1 hurricane but the thirteenth
   deadliest since 1900. Hurricane Agnes (1972), also a Category 1
   hurricane, ranks fifth with damages estimated at 6.9 billion when
   adjusted for inflation1. A storm surge is a large dome of water, 50 to
   100 miles wide, that sweeps across the coastline near where a hurricane
   makes landfall. It can be more than 15 feet deep at its peak. The surge
   of high water topped by waves is devastating. Along the coast, storm
   surge is the greatest threat to life and property. Hurricane winds not
   only damage structures, but the barrage of debris they carry is quite
   dangerous to anyone unfortunate enough (or unwise enough!) to be caught
   out in them. Damaging winds begin well before the hurricane eye makes
   landfall. Tropical cyclones frequently produce huge amounts of rain,
   and flooding can be a significant problem, particularly for inland
   communities. A typical hurricane brings at least 6 to 12 inches of
   rainfall to the area it crosses. The resulting floods cause
   considerable damage and loss of life, especially in mountainous areas
   where heavy rains mean flash floods and can also result in devastating
   mudslides. Tornadoes spawned by landfalling hurricanes can cause
   enormous destruction. As a hurricane moves shoreward, tornadoes often
   develop on the fringes of the storm. These hazards can bring other
   consequences not directly related to the storm. For example,
   hurricane-related deaths and injuries are often the result of fires
   started by candles used when the electricity fails. Heart attacks and
   accidents frequently occur during the clean-up phase. And depending on
   the industrial facilities in your area, hurricane damage might cause
   chemical spills that could make the disaster even worse. 1 Hurricanes:
   Their Nature and Impact on Society , (Pielke and Pielke, 1997, p. 125)
   Hurricane Hazards Summary Storm Surge Storm surge is the greatest
   potential threat to life and property associated with hurricanes. A
   storm surge is a large dome of water, 50 to 100 miles wide, that sweeps
   across the coastline near where a hurricane makes landfall. It can be
   more than 15 feet deep at its peak. The level of surge in a particular
   area is primarily related to the intensity of the hurricane and slope
   of the continental shelf. The Sea, Lake, and Overland Surges from
   Hurricanes (SLOSH) model is used by communities to evaluate storm surge
   threat from different categories of hurricanes striking from various
   directions. Because storm surge has the greatest potential to kill more
   people than any of the other hurricane hazards, it is wise to err on
   the conservative side by planning for a storm that is one category more
   intense than is forecast. High Winds Typically, the more intense the
   storm (in terms of the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale), the more wind
   damage a community will sustain, particularly if it does not have an
   effective mitigation program and has not prepared in advance for the
   storm. Tropical storm-force winds (39-73 mph) can also be dangerous,
   and it is wise to have evacuations completed before they reach your
   area. Heavy Rains Hurricanes (and some tropical storms) typically
   produce widespread rainfall of 6 to 12 inches or more, often resulting
   in severe flooding. Inland flooding has been the primary cause of
   tropical cyclone-related fatalities over the past 30 years. Rains are
   generally heaviest with slower moving storms (less than 10 mph). The
   heaviest rain usually occurs to the right of the cyclone track in the
   period 6 hours before and 6 hours after landfall. However, storms can
   last for days, depending on what inland weather features they interact
   with. Large amounts of rain can occur more than 100 miles inland where
   flash floods and mudslides are typically the major threats. Hurricane
   Hazards Summary (cont.) Tornadoes Tornadoes are most likely to occur in
   the right-front quadrant of the hurricane. However, they are also often
   found elsewhere in the rainbands. Typically, the more intense a
   hurricane is, the greater the tornado threat. Tornado production can
   occur for days after landfall. Most tornadoes occur within 150 miles of
   the coast. The National Weather Service's Doppler radar systems can
   provide indications of tornados from a few minutes to about 30 minutes
   in advance. Consequently, preparedness is critical. Hurricane
   Forecasting Over the past 20 years, improvements in hurricane computer
   modeling, observational instrumentation, and better training for
   forecasters have greatly increased forecast accuracy. New data systems
   give forecasters a greater understanding of tropical cyclones and
   provide better and more timely input for computer models used to
   predict hurricane behavior. Despite these advances, the many complex
   interactions that occur within the atmosphere are not fully understood
   or adequately modeled, limiting the accuracy of forecasts. When all is
   said and done, hurricane forecasting is still a very difficult job. The
   forecasting process that is the joint responsibility of NOAA's Tropical
   Prediction Center's National Hurricane Center (NHC) and the local
   Weather Forecast Offices (WFOs). The forecasting process contributes to
   a significant reduction in the number of deaths attributed to tropical
   cyclones and their related hazards. Part of the mission of the National
   Weather Service (NWS) Tropical Prediction Center (TPC) is to save lives
   and protect property by issuing watches, warnings, forecasts, and
   analyses of hazardous weather conditions in the tropics. The TPC is
   comprised of the National Hurricane Center (NHC), the Tropical Analysis
   and Forecast Branch (TAFB), and the Technical Support Branch (TSB).
   During hurricane season, the latter two provide support to the NHC. A
   Hurricane Liaison Team (HLT) is activiated during hurricanes to provide
   a link between the NHC and emergency managers and decision makers. The
   local NWS Weather Forecast Offices (WFOs) in hurricane-prone areas are
   also important participants in the forecast process. The NHC and your
   local WFO have various roles in the forecast process that are closely
   coordinated. In general, the NHC provides products that have a broad
   view of the hurricane and its potential impacts, while the local
   forecast office (the WFO) takes the information from NHC and tailors it
   to their specific locale, providing local emergency managers with
   additional information about the hazards expected in their area. The
   NHC issues hurricane advisories, watches and warinings. Information
   includes strike probability and wind speeds. Observation Observations
   are the basis for all forecast and warning products issued by the NHC.
   Quality, timeliness, and quantity of remote sensing observations are
   critical for accurate and timely forecasts and warnings. Analysis The
   various observations are checked for quality, analyzed, and put into a
   suite of computer models Central Model Guidance/Interpretation The
   computer models take in the observations and perform millions of
   calculations to generate predictions of hurricane behavior and the
   general conditions of the atmosphere in which the hurricane is
   embedded. The model results are packaged as guidance for the
   appropriate national centers and local offices and for evaluation and
   use in the NWS's forecast and warning process. Coordination within the
   NWS Model results are coordinated between the national centers and
   local forecast offices to provide consistency, which is critical during
   severe weather episodes. Product Dissemination Once the coordination
   and collaboration process reaches group consensus, the issuing offices
   generate forecast and warning products for release to the public.
   Product Dissemination Timely and reliable dissemination of forecasts
   and warnings is critical to the protection of life and property.
   Coordination with Customers The NHC and the local WFO work with
   customers to determine the level of satisfaction with the service
   provided and, in particular, whether the forecast and warning products
   issued were useful. Local Level: The Weather Forecast Office (WFO) All
   of the National Weather Service Forecast Offices are staffed 24 hours a
   day and produce: Watches and warnings for severe local storms, floods,
   flash floods, as well as local and zone public forecasts Local aviation
   forecasts, watches, and warnings Marine warnings and forecasts for
   coastal areas Hydrologic services such as support for flood and run-off
   forecasts Offices affected by hurricanes analyze the products created
   by the NHC and fine tune them for their own locale in order to provide
   local officials with the necessary information to make timely and
   efficient decisions. The WFOs produce local weather statements to
   inform the public about current and anticipated storm effects in their
   area and to augment NHC advisories and releases. The local statements
   are highly specific and are designed to keep the media, local decision
   makers, and the public current on present and anticipated storm
   effects. Local forecasters initiate or participate in inter-site
   coordination between NHC and other local WFOs to ensure forecast and
   warning consistency. Following product delivery, the local office
   coordinates with local officials, the media, and the emergency
   management community. These coordination calls focus on the pending
   weather threat and what implications the forecast or warning has for
   the local area. Following the storm, the local Warning Coordination
   Meteorologist evaluates the service with the forecast users. Summary
   Who Produces Hurricane Forecasts NOAA's National Hurricane Center is
   responsible for providing information on the current status of the
   storm and future forecasts of its behavior. Local NOAA Weather Forecast
   Offices fine tune NHC status reports and forecasts for their particular
   area. Forecast Information Tropical cyclone public advisories (issued
   every 6 hours) are intended for the general public in areas threatened
   by a tropical storm or hurricane. Intermediate public tropical cyclone
   advisories are issued every 3 hours once a watch or warning has been
   issued and every 2 hours once a reliable center appears on radar.
   Hourly radar position estimates are issued between the 2-hourly public
   advisories. They are similar to the 6-hour product. Tropical cyclone
   forecast/advisories (issued every 6 hours) are intended mainly for
   ships at sea and other marine interests, but also very useful to
   emergency managers because they contain wind field forecasts. Tropical
   cyclone discussions (issued every 6 hours) explain the rationale for
   the current forecast level of confidence. Tropical cyclone strike
   probability forecasts (issued every 6 hours) give the percentage chance
   that the center of a tropical cyclone will pass within 65 NM (75 mi) of
   specific locations within 72 hours. Hurricane local statements are
   issued by the local WFO to keep the media, local decision makers, and
   the public current on present and anticipated storm effects in their
   specific area. They include any actions declared by local emergency
   managers. Inland high wind watches and warnings are issued when
   hurricane-force winds are expected to occur beyond coastal areas.
   Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale* Category Definition-Likely Effects ONE:
   Winds 74-95 mph: No real damage to building structures, Damage
   primarily to unanchored mobile homes, shrubbery, and trees. Also, some
   coastal road flooding and minor pier damage. TWO: Winds 96-110 mph:
   Some roofing material, door, and window damage to buildings.
   Considerable damage to vegetation, mobile homes, and piers. Small craft
   in unprotected anchorages break moorings. THREE: Winds 111-130 mph:
   Some structural damage to small residences and utility buildings with a
   minor amount of curtainwall failures, Mobile homes are destroyed.
   Flooding near the coast destroys smaller structures with larger
   structures damaged by floating debris. Terrain may be flooded well
   inland. FOUR: Winds 131-155 mph: More extensive curtainwall failures
   with some complete roof structure failure on small residences. Major
   erosion of beach areas. Major damage to lower floors of structures near
   the shore Terrain may be flooded well inland. FIVE: Winds greater than
   155 mph: Complete roof failure on many residences and industrial
   buildings. Some complete building failures with small utility buildings
   blown over or away. Major damage to lower floors of all structures
   located near the shoreline. Massive evacuation of residential areas may
   be required. *In operational use, the scale corresponds to the 1-minute
   average sustained wind speed as opposed to gusts which could be 20
   percent higher or more. Credits: The COMET Program University
   Corporation for Atmospheric Research National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration (NOAA) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
