http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/nifl_pubs.html

   LINCSearch National Institute for Literacy Spacer Image
                                              Site Map
                                              Skip Navigational Links
                                              Publications

              National Institute for Literacy Publications List

   The National Institute for Literacy publishes documents on a variety of
    literacy-related topics. This is a partial list, emphasizing the most
      current products. Most can be accessed online. Hard copies can be
    ordered by calling the National Institute for Literacy at ED Pubs at
   1-800-228-8813 (TDD/TTY1-877-576-7734), visiting the ED Pubs website at
     http://www.ed.gov/pubs/edpubs.html or faxing 1-301-470-1244. Please
       refer to the document number listed with every publication when
   ordering a hard copy. Many other NIFL publications not listed here can
              be accessed electronically by searching LINCS at
            http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/ by the topic of interest.

                                 Directories
      Directory of National and State Literacy Contacts, December 1997.
   Available online only: http://www.nifl.gov/NSDirectory/NSDirIndex.htm.
     Contact information for national and state adult education, family
    literacy, job training, and other offices is listed in this 241-page
             report. The online version is continuously updated.

                               Early Childhood

    Put Reading First: The Research Building Blocks for Teaching Children
       to Read, September 2001. The Partnership for Reading: National
    Institute for Literacy; National Institute of Child Health and Human
    Development; and U.S. Department of Education. EXR0007B. Available in
                             print and online at
   http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/partnershipforreading/publications/PFRbooklet.
                       pdf (Adobe Acrobat PDF file) or
   http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/partnershipforreading/publications/reading_fir
     st1.html (HTML Version). This booklet summarizes for teachers what
       researchers have discovered about how to teach children to read
    successfully. It describes the findings of the National Reading Panel
    Report and provides analysis and discussion in five areas of reading
   instruction: phonemic awareness; phonics; fluency; vocabulary; and text
       comprehension. Each section suggests implications for classroom
                  instruction as well as other information.

    Put Reading First: Helping Your Child Learn to Read, September 2001.
   The Partnership for Reading: National Institute for Literacy; National
   Institute of Child Health and Human Development; and U.S. Department of
            Education. EXR0006H. Available in print and online at
   http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/partnershipforreading/publications/PFRbrochure
                      .pdf (Adobe Acrobat PDF file) or
   http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/partnershipforreading/publications/reading_fir
    st2.html (HTML Version). This brochure, designed for parents of young
   children, describes the kinds of early literacy activities that should
       take place at school and at home to help children learn to read
      successfully. It is based on the findings of the National Reading
                                   Panel.

                           Equipped for the Future

   Results That Matter: An Approach to Program Quality Using Equipped for
   the Future (PDF version) , August 2001. This publication is designed to
   help state agencies and local programs to better answer the questions:
   "What does EFF implementation look like in action?" and "What kinds of
   outcomes can we expect for students, teachers, and programs as a result
      of EFF implementation?" At the center of the document is the EFF
     Quality Model that makes explicit the vision and process of system
   reform using EFF Standards and other tools. Each section of the booklet
   corresponds with a section of the Quality Model including: the goals of
   system reform, EFF tools for change, the research and theories EFF has
      drawn upon to create those tools, EFF program practices, and the
              outcomes that EFF programs are beginning to see.
    EFF HOT Topics, Vol. 1, No. 1, Spring 2001, ED Pubs document EX0138W.
                      Available in print and online at
    http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/eff/hot_topics/vol_1_no_1.pdf .
   This is a new publication of the EFF National Center. Each issue of HOT
    Topics will concentrate on a specific topic of interest to teachers,
    highlighting examples of actual practice and offering strategies and
      tools for using the EFF Framework in the classroom. This 11-page
    premier issue of HOT Topics focuses on the goal-setting process, with
    teachers, tutors, and learners sharing how they use the EFF Framework
         and mind maps to define goals. Also included is a full-page
            reproducible copy of an effective goal-setting tool.

   Equipped for the Future Assessment Report: How Instructors Can Support
     Adult Learners Through Performance-Based Assessment, July 2000. Sri
     Ananda. ED Pubs document EX110P. Available in print and on-line at:
    http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/eff/ananda_eff.pdf . This paper
     introduces instructors who are using the EFF Standards to specific
    performance based assessment methods that show promise for measuring
                   progress relative to the EFF Standards.

      Equipped for the Future Research Report: Building the Framework,
     1993-1997, Juliet Merrifield. March 2000. Available on-line only at
     http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/eff/merrifield_eff.pdf . This
     55-page report documents the research conducted on Equipped for the
       Future through the summer of 1997 and examines the concepts and
   theories that informed the research. The focus is on what was done and
                         why during the EFF process.

   Equipped for the Future Content Standards: What Adults Need to Know and
   Be Able to Do in the 21st Century, January 2000. Sondra Stein, Ph.D. ED
           Pubs document EX0099P. Available in print and online at
    http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/eff/standards_guide.pdf . This
     publication describes in detail the 16 standards that represent the
    core knowledge and skills adults need to effectively carry out their
   roles as parents, citizens, and workers. It provides thorough examples
       of the ways a welfare-to-work class, an ESL class, and a family
   literacy program have used the Equipped for the Future (EFF) standards
   to guide teaching and learning. Finally, the report discusses the role
      EFF can play in promoting broader adult education system reform.

   EFF Voice, Fall/Winter 1999. ED Pubs document EX0094P. Available online
                                   only at
    http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/eff/eff_voice/vol_1_no_1.html.
     This 12-page newsletter recaps the 16 Equipped for the Future (EFF)
      content standards, traces the history of the project, gives brief
     updates on EFF activities around the country, and describes a joint
                project with the National Retail Federation.

    EFF Voice, Volume 2, Number 1, ED Pubs document EX0132W. Available in
                             print and online at
    http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/eff/eff_voice/vol_2_no_1.pdf .
      This issue focuses on current research and development efforts to
    construct an assessment framework for the EFF Content Standards that
         will link to the National Reporting System. The five states
       participating in this research and development effort are also
                                highlighted.

     A Reform Agenda for Adult Literacy and Lifelong Learning, February
    1997. ED Pubs document EX0020P. Available in print. In 34 pages, this
   report explores the Equipped for the Future (EFF) project's development
    of parent, worker, and citizen "role maps" to describe the skills and
   knowledge adults need to carry out real-world responsibilities. It also
   examines how the adult literacy system could better serve its learners
   by linking the content of adult literacy courses to standards based on
                               the role maps.

   A Customer-Driven Vision for Adult Literacy and Lifelong Learning, June
             1995. ED Pubs document EX0019P. Available online at
        http://www.nifl.gov/EFF/content.htm This 121-page report is a
      compilation of essays by adult learners about how improving their
                  literacy skills has changed their lives.

                           EFF Skills Wheel Poster

     These 22" x 36" full-color posters display the 16 EFF skills, along
     with their relation to the four skill categories. To order, please
                contact: Dawn Norris at 207-581-2402 x 11, or
                         dawn.norris@umit.maine.edu.

        Pricing, which includes shipping and handling, is as follows:

   1 poster $5.00 ea.
       2-4 posters $3.00 ea.
       5-9 posters $1.75 ea.
       10-14 posters $1.25 ea.
       15+ posters $1.10 ea.

                             Health and Literacy
   Culture, Health and Literacy: A Guide to Health Education Materials for
      Adults with Limited English Literacy Skills, November 2000. Julie
    McKinney and Sabrina Kurtz-Rossi. ED Pubs document EX0129P. Available
      in print. This guide is designed as an addendum to the Health and
    Literacy Compendium and specifically contains descriptions of health
       education materials in English and other languages and ordering
     information. It also addresses issues of culture and low-literacy.
        Culture, Health and Literacy is intended to help health care
      practitioners working with patients with limited English literacy
    skills, and adult literacy practitioners interested in incorporating
               health topics into adult education classrooms.

   Health and Literacy Compendium, 1999. World Education and the National
    Institute for Literacy. ED Pubs document EX0012P. Available in print
   and online at http://www.worlded.org/us/health/docs/comp/ An annotated
   bibliography of print and Web-based materials on various health-related
   topics for use with limited-literacy adults is provided in this 80-page
    publication. Some materials are available in Spanish. Organizational
                         resources also are listed.

     Empowerment Health Education in Adult Literacy: A Guide for Public
     Health Education in Adult Literacy Practitioners, Policy Makers and
    Funders, Vol. 3 No. 4, Part A, 1998, Marcia Drew Hohn, Ed.D. ED Pubs
             document EX0028P. Available in print and online at
   http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/fellowship/reports/hohn/HOHN.HTM An example of
   how adult learners can be engaged in defining and addressing their own
       health care needs. The author worked with a group of women at a
     Massachusetts literacy center to develop student-led approaches to
      earlier detection of breast, cervical, and testicular cancers and
       prevention of family violence. Background information about the
         relationship between literacy and health also is provided.

                            Learning Disabilities
     Bridges to Practice: A research-based Guide for Literacy Providers
   Serving Adults with Learning Disabilities, January 1999. Available for
    $150 from Academy for Educational Development, 1825 Connecticut Ave.,
    NW, Washington, DC 20009; telephone 202-884-8186. This comprehensive
     four-volume guide contains information about the nature of learning
      disabilities (LD) and their consequences, information about legal
   issues related to learning disabilities, nationally-validated standards
   for selecting LD screening instruments as well as curriculum materials,
   suggestions on learner involvement, and effective instructional models.
   A professional development manual including training scripts, agendas,
     outcomes, transparency and handout master copies is also available.

            Literacy Information and Communication System (LINCS)
    LINCS Brochure, October 2001. ED Pubs document EX0154H. Available in
   print. LINCS is the National Institute for Literacys one-stop source of
   literacy information online. The LINCS brochure offers a basic overview
   of the systems main features, including a search function that accesses
   a wide range of literacy websites and databases; special collections of
        information on topics like ESL and workplace literacy; online
                   discussion lists; calendars; and more.

                        National Literacy Statistics
      State of Literacy in America: Estimates at the Local, State, and
   National Levels, Stephen Reder, Ph.D., February 1998. ED Pubs document
                  EX0035P. Available in print and online at
     http://www.nifl.gov/reders/reder.htm This 450-page report uses data
     from the 1992 National Adult Literacy Survey and 1990 US Census to
    estimate the number of adults in the US with very low literacy skills
             by state, county, town, and Congressional district.

                          National Literacy Summit
     From the Margins to the Mainstream: An Action Agenda for Literacy,
     September 2000. The National Literacy Summit 2000. ED Pubs document
                 EX0111P. Available in print and on-line at
     http://www.nifl.gov/coalition/margins_to_mainstream.pdf . Developed
    through grassroots consensus building, this report from the National
   Literacy Summit Initiative serves as a blueprint for community action.
     The Summit initiative seeks to improve the nation's system of adult
      literacy, language and lifelong learning services through greater
   attention to adequate resources, increased access, and improved program
                                  quality.

                                   Policy
                 National Policy Updates Available online at
    http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/collections/policy/updates.html These short
      publications provide information on various federal policy issues
                  pertaining to adult and family literacy.

   Special Policy Update: English Literacy and Civics Education for Adult
     Learners, August 2001. Michelle Tolbert. ED Pubs document EX 0150P.
                      Available in print and on-line at
    http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/policy/esl.pdf . The most recent U.S. Census
    figures reveal that nearly one in five Americans over the age of five
   does not speak English at home. With studies indicating that Americans
       who speak little or no English are more likely to face economic
   hardship, it is important to ensure that they have the skills they need
      to succeed. To help meet this challenge, the English Literacy and
   Civics Education (EL/CE) state formula grants, together with a two-year
   EL/CE demonstration program funded by the U.S. Department of Education,
    provides English language learners with English literacy instruction
     and civics education to help them succeed at work, home, and in the
    community. This Special Policy Update describes the English language
      learner population today, reviews the current status of the EL/CE
         initiative, and highlights promising practices of the EL/CE
                           demonstration projects.

                             State Policy Update
   The Professionalization of Adult Education: Can Certification of Adult
   Educators Contribute to a More Professional Workforce? September 2000.
   Mary Parke. ED Pubs document EX0113P. Available in print and on-line at
      http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/policy/certification.pdf In the last two
            years, there has been a surge of interest in teacher
     professionalization in the field of adult education, brought on by
         increased federal, state, and local attention to issues of
    accountability. The K-12 and adult education standards movements have
   also brought heightened attention to teacher credentialing and teacher
     competencies programs. This 32-page State Policy Update reviews the
       current status of state implementation of teacher certification
    requirements for adult education instructors and highlights the ways
      three states -- Minnesota, Kansas, and Arkansas -- have chosen to
            implement standards for adult education instructors.

                             State Policy Update
     How States Are Implementing Distance Education for Adult Learners,
     February 2000. Mary Parke and Fran Tracy-Mumford. ED Pubs document
                  EX101P. Available in print and on-line at
      http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/policy/distance.htm This survey of state
         directors of adult education reveals that state leaders are
   increasingly viewing distance learning as a delivery mechanism that can
      reach adults who are unable to attend traditional adult education
   classes due to work or family commitments, lack of transportation, and
   other obligations. It can also bring adult education to the millions of
    adults who are not currently involved in an adult education program.
    This State Policy Update explains several of the major policy issues
    involved in offering distance learning, reviews the current status of
    state implementation of distance programs, and highlights the efforts
   of two states, California and Delaware, that offer distance learning on
                             a statewide level.

                                 Psychology
   Learning to Think, Learning to Learn: What the Science of Thinking and
    Learning Has To Offer Adult Education Programs, Volume IV, Number 1,
               1998-99. Jennifer Cromley. Available on-line at
    http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/fellowship/cromley_report.pdf . This report
      reviews major topics on learning as applied to teaching adult GED
        students -- including memory, critical thinking, motivation,
    problem-based learning and transfer of learning from classes to real
     life. Each chapter includes a review of the topic, implications for
    teachers, and lesson ideas. An extensive bibliography and newsletter
     articles that may be reproduced by literacy programs are included.
        Available in softcover and unbound (photocopiable) versions.

                                  Research
     A National Plan for Research and Development in Adult Education and
    Literacy, May 2001, ED Pubs document EX0136P. Available in print and
    on-line at http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/research.html. This document sets
   forth a national agenda for research and development in adult learning
   and literacy. The 16-page plan was developed under contract by Research
    Triangle Institute and reviewed by three collaborating agencies - the
   National Institute for Literacy, the Harvard-based National Center for
       the Study of Adult Literacy and Learning (NCSALL), and the U.S.
     Department of Education's Office of Vocational and Adult Education
     (OVAE). The plan includes recommendations for the dissemination of
      results and the development of a research-to-practice model, and
      concludes by emphasizing the challenge of ensuring that research
                       contributes to positive change.

                                 Technology
      Driver Education for the Information Superhighway, Vol. 2 No. 2,
    February 1998. David Rosen, Ed.D. ED Pubs document EX0024P. Available
   in print. Not available online. This 90-page report examines how adult
   literacy education practitioners and adult learners have been using the
     Internet, the obstacles they have found, and how they have overcome
        them. It also reviews websites for learners and instructors.

   Teaching & Learning with Internet-based Resources, Vol. 3 No. 2, 1997.
                      Susan Cowles. Available online at
   http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/fellowship/reports/susanc/inthome.htm A set of
       lesson plans and activities for adult literacy instructors that
    integrate the Internet into the adult education classroom. Navigating
      the web, using e-mail, and evaluating websites are explained and
        illustrated with helpful examples in this 132-page document.

                               Welfare-to-Work
     What Works: Integrating Basic Skills Training into Welfare-to-Work,
      September 1998. Garrett Murphy & Alice Johnson. ED Pubs document
                  EX0009P. Available in print and online at
   http://www.nifl.gov/whatworks.htm This report describes the educational
   activities permissible under current federal welfare law, describes the
     characteristics of exemplary welfare-to-work programs and profiles
      eight of them, and provides information on additional resources.

   Adult Education and Welfare to Work Initiatives: A Review of Research,
    Practice and Policy, Vol. 3 No.1, August 1997. Deborah D'Amico, Ph.D.
     ED Pubs document EX0025P. Available in print. Not available online.
   This publication first reviews the research on the relationships among
    literacy, employment, and participation in adult education programs,
    and then examines programs that have successfully met the educational
   and other needs of welfare recipients. The author concludes with policy
    recommendations in the areas of education and training, job creation,
                       support services, and research.

     Learn to Earn: Issues Raised by Welfare Reform for Adult Education,
    Training and Work, Vol.3 No.3, Part B, 1997. Suzanne Knell. Available
   online at /http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/fellowship/reports/sknell.htm. Not
   available in print. A brief overview of the Personal Responsibility and
    Work Opportunities Reconciliation Act and how it affects the field of
      adult education and training. The report also outlines potential
   strategies to create new adult education programs that are effectively
     integrated with job and vocational training, job preparation, work
                            activities and work.

                             Workplace Literacy
        21st Century Skills for 21st Century Jobs, January 1999. U.S.
    Department of Commerce, U.S. Department of Education, U.S. Department
      of Labor, National Institute for Literacy, and the Small Business
   Administration. ED Pubs document EX0052P. Available in print. Released
   as part of Vice President Gore's Summit on 21st Century Skills for 21st
   Century Jobs, this report describes the impact of the changing economy
      on skill requirements for new and existing jobs. It describes how
      workforce training is provided, the challenges and opportunities
   employers and workers face in pursuing lifelong learning, and examples
                of promising training and education programs.

    Skills for a New Century: A Blueprint for Lifelong Learning, November
    1999. 21st Century Skills Leadership Group. ED Pubs document EX0098P.
   Available in print. A group of leaders from business, organized labor,
    education, and government met over the course of a year to synthesize
    current thinking and promising practices on workforce learning. This
    report is the group's recommendations, which focus on four key areas:
   linking training and learning to high standards, useful credentials and
       labor market needs; improving access to financial resources for
     lifelong learning; arranging training at times and places that meet
    workers' needs and interests; and increasing awareness and motivation
       to participate in continuing education, training, and learning.

                        HTML versions of .pdf files:
                        EFF HOT Topics, Vol. 1, No. 1
                           EFF Results That Matter
                       EFF Voice, Volume 2, Number 1,
          English Literacy and Civics Education for Adult Learners
   Equipped for the Future Assessment Report: How Instructors Can Support
             Adult Learners Through Performance-Based Assessment
      Equipped for the Future Research Report: Building the Framework,
                                  1993-1997
   Equipped for the Future Content Standards: What Adults Need to Know and
                      Be Able to Do in the 21st Century
      From the Margins to the Mainstream: An Action Agenda for Literacy
   Learning to Think, Learning to Learn: What The Science Of Thinking And
                    Learning Has To Offer Adult Education
             Put Reading First: Helping Your Child Learn to Read
    Put Reading First: The Research Building Blocks for Teaching Children
                                   to Read
   The Professionalization of Adult Education: Can Certification of Adult
           Educators Contribute to a More Professional Workforce?

              NIFL HOME CONTACT NIFL ABOUT NIFL NATIONAL LINCS
