http://scitech.dot.gov/disclaim.html

   Transportation Science & Technology


 Home
 Feedback

         United States Department of Transportation

         Privacy Notice

         We collect no personal information about you when you visit our website
         unless you choose to provide this information to us. However, we
         collect and store certain information automatically. Here is how we
         handle information about your visit to our website.

         What We Collect and Store Automatically

         If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
         read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
         information about your visit automatically. This information does not
         identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
         following information about your visit:
          1. The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
             private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
             from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP address is a
             number that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you
             are surfing the Web) from which you access our website;
          2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
          3. The date and time you access our site;
          4. The pages you visit; and
          5. If you linked to our website from another website, the address of
             that website.

         We use the information we collect to count the number and type of
         visitors to the different pages on our site, and to help us make our
         site more useful to visitors like you.

         Cookies

         This site does not use cookies on any of the pages. Once you leave this
         site you need to check the policy of that site to determine whether
         that site uses cookies or not.

         If You Send Us E-mail or Feedback

         You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in e-mail or
         Feedback with a comment or question. We use the information to improve
         our service to you or to respond to your request. Sometimes we forward
         your comments to other employees who may be better able to help you.
         Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not share
         such compiled data with any other outside organizations.

         Links to Other Sites

         Our website has many links to additional sites, especially other
         federal agencies. In some cases we link to private organizations.
         PLEASE NOTE: When you follow a link to another site, you are no longer
         on our site nor protected by our privacy policy. You are then subject
         to the privacy policy of the new site.

   Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability

   This web site and the information it contains is provided as a public
   service by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). This system is
   monitored to ensure proper operation, to verify the functioning of
   applicable security features, and for other like purposes. Anyone using
   this system expressly consents to such monitoring. Unauthorized
   attempts to modify any information stored on this system, to defeat or
   circumvent security features, or to utilize this system for other than
   its intended purposes are prohibited and may result in criminal
   prosecution.

   Restriction of Liability

   The DOT makes no claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy,
   completeness, or adequacy of the contents of this web site and
   expressly disclaims liability for errors and omissions in the contents
   of this web site. No warranty of any kind, implied, expressed or
   statutory, including but not limited to the warranties of
   non-infringement of third party rights, title, merchantablility,
   fitness for a particular purpose and freedom from computer virus, is
   given with respect to the contents of this web site or its hyperlinks
   to other Internet resources. Reference in this web site to any specific
   commercial products, processes, or services, or the use of any trade,
   firm or corporation name is for the information and convenience of the
   public, and does not constitute endorsement, recommendation, or
   favoring by DOT.

   Ownership

   Information presented on this web site is considered public information
   and may be distributed or copied. However, all information submitted to
   DOT via this site shall be deemed and remain the property of DOT,
   except those submissions made under separate legal contract. DOT shall
   be free to use, for any purpose, any ideas, concepts, or techniques
   contained in information provided to DOT through this site.

                              [ Return to Top ]
