http://www.afm.ars.usda.gov/ppweb/frmain.htm

                              an4-2.gif (94538 bytes)

                 to the REE Administrative Issuances System!

   [ISMAP:frmain.htm_txt_FRCONT3.gif]-[USEMAP:frmain.htm_txt_FRCONT3.gif]


   (If you do not find a topic that you are looking for on this site,
   check the OCIO's web site which has a link to USDA Directives System)

   Here at this site you'll find the official system of the most current
   REE Policies and Procedures (P&P's), Manuals, and Bulletins.  The
   system is “user- friendly” and easy to navigate--please browse through
   the pages of the site to get familiar with it.

   You'll see a Table of Contents in the left frame--a click of your mouse
   will link you to any of the topics listed. If you do NOT see topics in
   the Table of Contents, click here for a text-only version of that
   frame.

   The Subject Index is organized alphabetically by words and/or subjects.
   Clicking on any letter will link you to an index of words or subjects
   that begin with that letter.   Under each word/subject is a list of all
   the issuances that pertain to that word/subject.

   A click on the words “Manuals, P&P's, or Bulletins” on the stack of
   books at the top of this page or in the Table of Contents in the left
   frame will link you directly to the numerical listings for the P&P's
   and Manuals or to the list of Bulletins.

   On this numerical listing a click on the Number column will take you
   directly to the first page of that issuance (a few Manuals & P&Ps which
   are old and under revision, are not linked.)  Scroll down to the Table
   of Contents in that issuance to see a listing of Section titles which
   are linked to the sections within the issuance.   You can also scroll
   through the issuance using the scroll buttons on the right of the
   screen.  For very long documents you may find that you cannot scroll
   through them entirely.  In these instances you will need to use the
   Table of Contents of that issuance to link to each section or part.

   To download and print copies of issuances you should click on the
   Download column, which will instruct you to save a WordPerfect copy of
   the issuance. Once you've saved the copy as a WordPerfect file, you'll
   be able to print it. However, because there are some large files, a
   number of these files are zipped executable files.  In order to un-zip
   these files, after downloading you only need to click on the file name
   and it will unzip the file.  You do not need to  have an un-zip utility
   on your hard drive.   For more information see the Printing
   Instructions.
