http://www.ca3.uscourts.gov/classcounsel/fjcauctioning_rtf_.pdf

   Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases: A
   Descriptive Study Laural L. Hooper & Marie Leary August 29, 2001
   Federal Judicial Center 2001 This Federal Judicial Center publication
   was undertaken in furtherance of the Center's statutory mission to
   conduct and stimulate research and development for the improvement of
   judicial ad- ministration. The views expressed are those of the authors
   and not necessarily those of the Federal Judicial Center. Auctioning
   the Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial
   Center 2001 Contents I. Introduction, 1 A. Background, 1 B. Third
   Circuit Task Force, 4 C. Overview of the Report, 5 II. Research
   Methods, 5 III. Summary of Cases Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel,
   7 A. Number of Cases and Judge Participation, 7 B. Type of Case, 7 C.
   Case Status, 7 D. Number of Bids Submitted, 8 E. Most Frequent Bidder
   and Winning Bidder, 8 F. Party Opposition to Auctioning the Role of
   Class Counsel, 8 G. Settlement Amounts, 8 H. Class Recoveries, 9 I.
   Attorneys' Fees, 9 IV. Auction of Class Counsel as an Alternative to
   Traditional Appointment, 16 A. Courts' Rationales for Soliciting Bids,
   16 1. To replicate the private marketplace and reduce attorneys' fees,
   16 2. To improve attorney-proposed case representation, 18 3. To give
   the class the benefit of the low risk of nonrecovery, 19 4. To reduce
   the expenditure of judicial time, 19 5. To account for the presence of
   an inadequate or uninterested lead plaintiff, 20 B. Party Opposition to
   the Courts' Solicitation of Bids, 25 V. Auctioning Procedures, 28 A.
   Stage of Litigation at Which Counsel Was Appointed, 28 1. Before
   dispositive motions, 28 2. After choosing lead plaintiff, 28 3. Before
   Rule 23 certification, 29 B. Discovery Prior to Bid Submission, 30 C.
   Limitations on Field of Potential Bidders, 31 D. Overview of
   Court-Imposed Guidelines for Bid Proposals, 32 1. Guidelines for
   qualitative submissions, 32 2. Guidelines for quantitative submissions,
   34 E. Specific Features of Auction Procedures Required by the Courts,
   37 1. Sealed bids, 40 2. Joint bids, 40 3. Fee and/or expense caps, 41
   4. Fee proposal required to include attorney fees and expenses, 42 5.
   Modification of caps at time of fee award, 43 6. Structured bids, 43 7.
   Use of an X-factor, 44 iii Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in
   Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 8. Fee proposal
   required to be based on increasing, decreasing, or straight percentage
   of class recovery, 45 9. Right of first refusal, 46 10. Counsel
   conducting initial investigation expressly permitted to receive
   compensation (even if they do not win the auction), 47 11. Lead counsel
   selected by the court expressly permitted to appoint unaffiliated
   counsel to assist with the case, 48 F. Time Period Court Permitted for
   Bid Submission, 49 G. Potential for Collusion in the Auctioning
   Process, 50 VI. Selection and Evaluation of Bids, 51 A. Time Period for
   Evaluation and Selection of Winning Bidder, 51 B. Number of Bids
   Received by the Court, 52 C. Analysis Used to Select Winning Bidder, 53
   1. District Judge Vaughn Walker, 53 2. Senior District Judge Milton I.
   Shadur, 55 3. District Judge William Alsup, 57 4. District Judge Alfred
   J. Lechner, Jr., 58 5. District Judge William H. Walls, 59 6. District
   Judge Joan A. Lenard, 60 7. District Judge Lewis Kaplan, 60 D.
   Characteristics of Winning Bids, 60 E. Whether Winning Bidder was also
   Lowest Bidder, 63 F. Challenges to Lead Counsel Selected as Winning
   Bidder, 64 G. Extent to Which Bid Proposals Were Unsealed, 65 H. Repeat
   Players and Winners, 69 VII. Attorneys' Fees and Class Recovery, 69 A.
   Potential Damages, Settlements, and Class Recoveries, 73 B. Attorneys'
   Fee Awards, 74 1. In re Oracle, 74 2. In re Wells Fargo, 74 3. In re
   Network Associates, 75 4. In re Bank One, 75 5. In re California Micro
   Devices, 76 6. In re Auction Houses, 76 7. In re Cendant (non-Prides),
   77 8. In re Cendant (Prides), 80 9. In re Amino Acid Lysine, 81 C.
   Courts' Treatment of Expenses and Costs, 82 D. Ex-Post Fee
   Determinations, 83 VIII. Summary of Judge Interviews, 86 A. Judges with
   Experience Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel, 87 1. Consideration of
   the merits of the case prior to auctioning the lead counsel role, 87 2.
   Consideration of the likelihood and size of recovery prior to
   auctioning the lead counsel role, 87 3. Common case characteristics of
   bidding cases, 88 iv Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class
   Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 4. Large firm versus small
   firms, 88 5. Ex parte communication concerns with auctioning the role
   of lead counsel, 89 6. Management practices with auctioning the role of
   lead counsel, 89 7. Special skills needed to auction the role of lead
   counsel, 90 8. Problems, if any, with selection of counsel in
   non-auctioning cases, 90 9. Suggested procedures to improve the
   traditional appointment of counsel, 90 10. Judicial resources and
   auctioning the role of lead counsel, 91 B. Judges with Experience
   Managing Securities and/or Antitrust Class Actions, Using Tradi- tional
   Methods of Appointing Class Counsel, 91 1. Criteria used to appoint
   class counsel, 91 2. Nature of problems, if any, regarding lead counsel
   appointment, 91 3. Suggested procedures to improve the traditional
   appointment of counsel, 92 4. Considered auctioning the role of lead
   counsel, but subsequently rejected, 92 5. Special skills needed to
   auction the role of lead counsel, 93 6. Lodestar versus
   percentage-of-recovery method, 93 7. Circuit benchmarks and the
   awarding of attorneys' fees, 94 Appendix A: Guidelines for Bid
   Submissions, 95 Appendix B: Firms Participating in Competitive Bidding,
   127 v Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases *
   Federal Judicial Center 2001 I. Introduction A. Background By their
   nature, class actions tend to be complex and require active judicial
   oversight.1 In most cases, multiple related claims have been filed by
   numerous plaintiffs' attorneys, all ultimately de- siring to represent
   the class. Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23 imposes unique
   responsibilities on the court, as well as on counsel. The attorneys and
   parties seeking to represent the class assume fiduciary
   responsibilities, and the court has a responsibility to ensure that the
   interests of the class are protected. In class action cases, few
   decisions by the court will be as important as the appointment of lead
   or class counsel. Because of the high financial stakes involved in some
   types of cases (not typically civil rights or other constitutional
   litigation), competition for class counsel is often in- tense. Courts
   have wide discretion in selecting lead counsel. In carrying out their
   judicial respon- sibility, courts must examine the adequacy of proposed
   lead plaintiff's counsel, be aware of the importance of controlling
   attorneys' fees from the outset, and adopt an appropriate procedure to
   achieve those goals. Courts have sometimes appointed as lead counsel
   the attorney who was first to file the com- plaint.2 In the
   alternative, attorneys representing different plaintiffs or groups of
   plaintiffs will negotiate among themselves to determine who should
   serve as lead counsel and then propose the arrangement to the court.
   This second approach may result in what has been commonly referred to
   as a plaintiffs' steering committee composed of various attorney
   designations such as lead coun- sel, co-lead counsel, liaison counsel,
   trial counsel and committees of counsel. Some observers say such a
   "negotiation system" among plaintiffs' attorneys may not be in the best
   interest of the class because it can create pressure to generate enough
   work so that all the attorneys can be compen- sated. 3 Courts have the
   authority to control fees and can use that power to create a system
   that will hold down costs to the class. Courts generally award
   attorneys' fees in common fund cases under one of two approaches: the
   percentage-of-fund method4 or the lodestar method. Under the percent-
   1. See Manual for Complex Litigation (Third) ยง 30 Class Actions (1995).
   2. See S. Rep. No. 104-98 (1995), The Private Securities Litigation
   Reform Act of 1995, reprinted in 1995 U.S.C.C.A.N. 679. 3. Currently,
   the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules has proposed changes to Rule 23,
   including two new rules: Rule 23(g), covering class counsel
   appointment, and Rule 23(h), covering attorney fees. The pro- posed
   class action appointment rule would encourage counsel and the court to
   reach early shared understand- ings about the basis on which fees will
   be sought. Such a provision has been encouraged by judges emphasiz- ing
   the importance of judicial control over attorney fee awards. This
   feature might foster competitive applica- tions; permit innovative
   approaches such as bidding, where appropriate; obviate later objections
   to the fee request; and serve as a more productive way for the court to
   deal in advance with fee award matters that seem to defy regulation
   after the fact. The proposed class action attorney fee rule would not
   endorse the lodestar or percentage of recovery methods for attorney
   fees. Instead, the draft lists factors for the court to consider in its
   determination after the hearing. The proposed rules were distributed
   for public comment the week of August 13, 2001. 4. Also commonly
   referred to as percentage-of-recovery. See Blum v. Stenson, 465 U.S.
   886, 900 n.16 (1984) (approving the use of the percentage-of-recovery
   approach in common fund cases). 1 Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel
   in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 age-of-fund method
   the court awards attorneys' fees as a certain percentage of the
   settlement. Fee awards under this method have ranged between 20% to 40%
   of the gross monetary settlement.5 Critics of the percentage-of-fund
   approach say the method "might lead the plaintiffs' attorney to settle
   the case prematurely as soon as counsel's opportunity costs begin to
   mount. Early settle- ment allows counsel to collect a large fee after
   investing relatively little time in the case, rather than continuing
   the litigation in order to maximize plaintiffs' recovery but receiving
   a lower mar- ginal rate of return on his or her work."6 Under the
   lodestar method, the court multiplies the number of hours reasonably
   expended by a reasonable hourly rate.7 That figure, the lodestar, may
   then be adjusted (usually by applying a multiplier) upward or downward
   to account for several factors, including the quality of the repre-
   sentation, the benefit obtained for the class, the complexity and
   novelty of the issues presented, and the risk of nonpayment.8 Critics
   of the lodestar method 9 claim that by focusing on hours expended, it
   "may induce lead counsel to prolong the litigation beyond the optimal
   point from plaintiffs' perspective simply in order to accrue more
   hours."10 Further, the lodestar fee structure creates an incentive for
   the attorney to do un- necessary work such as filing motions with
   little merit, taking unneces- sary depositions, or demanding production
   of documents, solely in order to accrue more hours. This risk is
   exacerbated where the class is repre- sented by a committee of
   attorneys, rather than a single firm. The in- volvement of numerous
   counsel can create pressure to generate sufficient attorney hours to
   compensate all participating attorneys, and work may be allocated in
   order to further this objective, rather than in the most effi- cient
   and cost-effective manner. All of these factors may result in a higher
   lodestar without commensurate benefit to the class.11 Finally,
   plaintiffs' attorney may have "an incentive to settle the case before
   it reaches the trial stage, even if trial is in plaintiffs' best
   interests"12 and may be tempted "to agree to a less-than- favorable
   settlement for the class while counsel collects a substantial fee."13 A
   new approach that addressed counsel selection and monitoring as well as
   lead counsel compensation appeared in 1990. That method involved
   "auctioning"14 the role of lead or class 5. See Thomas E. Willging et
   al., Empirical Study of Class Actions in Four Federal District Courts:
   Fi- nal Report to the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules 69 (Federal
   Judicial Center 1996); see also In re Auc- tion Houses Antitrust
   Litig., 197 F.R.D. 71, 77 (S.D.N.Y. 2000) (stating fee awards generally
   range from 20% to 30% of the total fund). 6. In re Auction Houses, 197
   F.R.D. at 77 (citations omitted); In re Oracle Sec. Litig., 131 F.R.D.
   688, 68990 (N.D. Cal. 1990). 7. See Lindy Bros. Builders, Inc. v. Am.
   Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., 487 F.2d 161, 165 (3d Cir. 1973)
   (vacated a percentage fee award in a common fund case and created what
   has become known as the Lindy lodestar for calculating fee awards). 8.
   Id. at 16769. 9. See Court Awarded Attorneys' Fees, Report of the Third
   Circuit Task Force, reprinted in 108 F.R.D. 237, 25556 (3d Cir. 1985)
   (examining court-awarded attorneys' fees and recommending the
   percentage-of- recovery method for common fund cases). The Task Force
   noted the drawbacks of the lodestar method, in- cluding it is difficult
   to apply, time consuming to administer, and capable of manipulation to
   reach a prede- termined result. Id. at 24653. 10. In re Auction Houses,
   197 F.R.D. at 76. 11. Id. 12. Id. 13. Id. 2 Auctioning the Role of
   Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001
   counsel and was an attempt to find a more objective way to award
   attorneys' fees without relying on the standard percentages routinely
   awarded in class actions. The auctioning method was a judi- cial
   substitute for the free market factors that would control attorney
   selection in a bipolar tradi- tional lawsuit. Supporters of the auction
   method believe the winning bidder becomes the "owner" of the lawsuit
   and, consequently, has a vested interest in ensuring the highest
   settlement or damage recovery possible. Once a judge has decided to
   auction the lead counsel position, the judge will develop guidelines
   describing the bidding procedures and requirements. Once all bids have
   been received and evaluated, the court selects a winning bidder. The
   first judge to use an auction proce- dure was Judge Vaughn Walker of
   the Northern District of California, who employed it in In re Oracle
   Securities Litigation.15 Considerable commentary has been written about
   the advantages and disadvantages of using an auction method.16 Some of
   the advantages include: (1) the procedure does away with the per-
   ceived unfairness of many large class actions being awarded to a small
   number of established and connected firms while equally capable firms
   never get the opportunity to establish their reputa- tions for handling
   class action cases; and (2) the competitive process lowers attorneys'
   fees and costs for a greater benefit to the class. Some of the
   disadvantages include: (1) the suggestion that "cheaper" lawyers are
   not necessarily better advocates and might be worse; (2) the process
   can create incentives for lawyers to bring and settle cases
   prematurely, without adequate preparation, investigation, and
   discovery, and for inadequate consideration; (3) lead counsel auctions
   threaten the court's neutrality by casting the judge as auctioneer and
   referee; and (4) firms that perform work early in a case might not be
   compensated. We found courts have auctioned the role of class counsel
   in fourteen cases-twelve securities and two antitrust actions.17 The
   procedures used in these cases and the guidelines promulgated by 14. To
   the extent that the term "auction" implies an iterative process by
   which the parties respond to each others' bids, we do not include that
   implication in our use of the term "auction." 15. 131 F.R.D. 688 (N.D.
   Cal. 1990). 16. See, e.g., Jill E. Fisch, Aggregation, Auctions and
   Other Developments in the Selection of Lead Counsel Under the PSLRA, 64
   Law & Contemp. Probs. 53, 101 (2001); Andrew Niebler, In Search of Bar-
   gained-for-Fees for Class Action Plaintiffs' Lawyers: The Promises and
   Pitfalls of Auctioning for the Posi- tion of Lead Counsel, 54 Bus. Law.
   763 (1999); and Randall S. Thomas & Robert G. Haugen, Auctioning Class
   Action and Derivative Lawsuits: A Critical Analysis, 87 Nw. U. L. Rev.
   423 (1993). See also In re Cendant Corp. Litig., Nos. 00-2520, 00-2683,
   00-2708, 00-2709, 00-2733, 00-2734, 00-2769, 00-3653, slip op. at 7881
   (3d Cir. Aug. 28, 2001). 17. In re Oracle Sec. Litig., 131 F.R.D. 688
   (N.D. Cal. 1990) (hereinafter In re Oracle ); In re Wells Fargo Sec.
   Litig., 157 F.R.D. 467 (N.D. Cal. 1994) (hereinafter In re Wells
   Fargo); In re Amino Acid Lysine Antitrust Litig., 918 F. Supp 1190
   (N.D. Ill. 1996) (hereinafter In re Amino Acid Lysine); In re
   California Micro Devices Sec. Litig., 168 F.R.D. 257 (N.D. Cal. 1996)
   (hereinafter In re California Micro Devices); In re Cendant Corp.
   Litig., 182 F.R.D. 144 (D.N.J. 1998) (hereinafter In re Cendant); In re
   Network Assocs. Inc., Sec. Litig., 76 F. Supp. 2d 1017 (N.D. Cal. 1999)
   (hereinafter In re Network Associates); Sherleigh As- socs. LLC v.
   Windmere-Durable Holdings, Inc., 184 F.R.D. 688 (S.D. Fla. 1999)
   (hereinafter Sherleigh As- sociates); In re Lucent Techs. Inc. Sec.
   Litig., 194 F.R.D. 137 (D.N.J. 2000) (hereinafter In re Lucent); In re
   Bank One Shareholders Class Actions, 96 F. Supp. 2d 780 (N.D. Ill.
   2000) (hereinafter In re Bank One); Wenderhold v. Cylink Corp., 188
   F.R.D. 577 (N.D. Cal. 1999) (hereinafter Cylink); In re Auction Houses
   Antitrust Litig., 197 F.R.D. 71 (S.D.N.Y. 2001) (hereinafter In re
   Auction Houses); In re Quintus Sec. Litig., Nos. 00-C-4264 & 00-C-3894,
   2001 WL 709204 (N.D. Cal. Apr. 12, 2001) (hereinafter In re Quintus);
   In re Commtouch Software Ltd. Sec. Litig., No. 01-C-00719, Order Re
   Lead Plaintiff Selection and Class Counsel Selection (N.D. Cal. June
   27, 2001) (hereinafter In re Commtouch); In re Comdisco Sec. Litig.,
   141 F. Supp. 2d 951 (N.D. Ill. 2001) (Memorandum Opinion entering
   attached Apr. 6, 2001, Memorandum Order) (here- inafter In re
   Comdisco). Another case, Raftery v. Mercury Finance Co., No. 97-C-624,
   1997 WL 529553 (N.D. Ill. Aug. 15, 1997), deserves special mention.
   Although not counted as a bidding case in our study, Judge Joan Lefkow
   attempted to combine submissions for lead plaintiff and bidding for
   lead counsel into one 3 Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class
   Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 the courts varied
   considerably. Some of the judges required very detailed proposals,
   whereas oth- ers allowed interested bidders to present their best
   proposal with little guidance from the court. Consequently, how courts
   analyzed and compared bids varied across the jurisdictions. The full
   extent to which lawyers have proposed or judges considered auctions but
   rejected their use remains unknown. B. Third Circuit Task Force In
   January 2001, Chief Judge Edward R. Becker of the U.S. Court of Appeals
   for the Third Circuit appointed a Task Force to analyze and evaluate
   the methods of selecting class counsel. "The deci- sion to convene a
   Task Force was informed by accounts of the practice of an increasing
   number of district judges throughout the nation of selecting class
   counsel through a bidding process."18 Judge Becker commented "that
   despite the apparent success of such a process in terms of lowering
   trans- actions costs with seemingly greater benefits for the class,
   many respected judges and lawyers have opined that the bidding process
   is flawed in concept and in practice, and it presents profes- sional
   responsibility problems."19 Further, said Judge Becker, critics of the
   bidding method have noted that the traditional method of appointing
   class counsel, "at the discretion of the assigned judge, has not only
   proved successful, but has achieved excellent results for the class and
   is pref- erable."20 Judge Becker asked the Federal Judicial Center to
   provide research assistance to the Task Force. The Task Force and the
   Center determined that the best way the Center could assist would to be
   to (1) comprehensively describe, including summarizing interview
   results with judges, those class action cases in which bidding had been
   used, and (2) interview a small sample of judges who have not used
   bidding and question them about their experiences in selecting and
   appointing class counsel. C. Overview of the Report Section II of this
   report describes our research methods. Section III highlights
   characteristics of cases where auctioning has been used. Section IV
   describes the judges' rationale for auctioning the role of class
   counsel. Sections V and VI describe in detail the auctioning procedures
   used by the judges, including the process of evaluating bids and
   selecting the winning bidder. Section VII describes the class
   recoveries and attorneys' fees in the terminated cases. The final
   section de- scribes bidding and nonbidding judges' experiences with
   appointing class counsel and summarizes their suggestions for improving
   the traditional method of appointment. step. The two parties objected
   to the court's request, but ultimately complied. One party, the interim
   lead plaintiff, failed to address the guidelines set forth in the
   court's order and submitted an inadequate proposal. After reviewing the
   two proposals, the court wrote considering the urgency of the pending
   settlement, "[a]s a practical matter, it makes little sense to change
   pilots at this time, no matter the court's distress at the [interim
   lead plaintiff's] conduct in responding to its order." Id. at *2. The
   court recommended (assuring a settlement could be promptly consummated)
   "compensation of counsel . . . be determined without the benefit of the
   information critical to establishing reasonableness-the lowest fee that
   would be paid by a discerning client in an arms length negotiation with
   well-qualified counsel." Id. at *23. The court subsequently approved
   interim lead plaintiff's settlement agreement. 18. Third Circuit Press
   Release, Creation of Task Force (Jan. 30, 2001) at
   /www.ca3.uscourts.gov /classcounsel/public.htm>. 19. Id. 20. Id. 4
   Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal
   Judicial Center 2001 Appendix A contains the courts' guidelines or
   requirements for a potential bidder as well as any bid grid or other
   relevant document the court required interested parties wishing to be
   consid- ered as class counsel to complete. Where available, Appendix B
   contains the names of the firms that submitted bids in the fourteen
   cases to date, as well as the identity of the winning bidder. II.
   Research Methods To determine the universe of bidding cases, we
   retrieved the docket sheets from a sample of class action cases where
   bidding was used, and we reviewed them to determine the terms generally
   used in docketing and pleading statements in bidding cases. Using this
   list of terms, we electronically searched the entries of federal court
   docket sheets maintained and updated daily by CaseStream.21 We placed
   no date restriction on the search. It produced twelve cases in which
   bidding had been used. Since that initial search, bidding procedures
   have been implemented in two additional cases.22 In order to describe
   each bidding case comprehensively, we collected information using a
   "template" that incorporated questions identified by the Task Force.
   Some of the information col- lected included the judge's rationale for
   using bidding and the stage of litigation at which counsel was
   appointed; the mechanics of the bidding process, including whether the
   judge permitted any preliminary discovery to inform the bidding
   process, and any guidelines for the submissions of the bids that were
   adopted; how the court selected the winning bid; and whether there were
   any chal- lenges to the court's decision to use bidding, and if so, how
   they were resolved. We also gathered information on the post-bidding
   process, including settlement amounts, class recoveries, and at-
   torneys' fees. Information about the bidding cases came from different
   sources, including published opin- ions, a review of docket sheets and
   selected pleadings from the case (e.g., motions and orders re- garding
   appointment of class/lead counsel, settlement agreements, and orders
   regarding attorneys' fees), public hearing testimony, if applicable,
   and telephone interviews with the judges. During interviews we explored
   a judge's reasoning for using the bidding procedure in the target case
   and their reasons for not using it in other class action cases assigned
   to him or her. Our objective was to identify characteristics or factors
   in a case that judges believe might make it an appropriate case for
   using the auction procedure. If a judge deliberately chose not to use
   bidding in other cases, we inquired as to his or her reasons. If a
   judge did not use it because of a lack of awareness, we in- quired
   whether he or she believed the auctioning procedure could have enhanced
   the quality of the litigation. Although we strove to be as accurate and
   comprehensive as possible, our description of the fourteen bidding
   cases might contain errors and omissions. We were unable to obtain
   access to every relevant document in certain cases, report certain
   information in cases which are still pend- ing, and confirm every
   instance where questions arose pertaining to reported information.
   More- 21. CaseStream's historical database is a consolidation of all
   the docket reports that are available from individual federal court's
   PACER (Public Access to Court Electronic Records) systems. The company
   has agreements with federal courts that have PACER systems to access
   their databases and extract updated case information on a daily basis.
   CaseStream also receives quarterly records from the Federal Judicial
   Center to double-check the accuracy and consistency of their on-line
   historical database. This service gives us access to all PACER docket
   sheets in a centralized database and allows us to search for specific
   terms within the en- tries of docket sheets. 22. See supra note 17 for
   the list of fourteen bidding cases. 5 Auctioning the Role of Class
   Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 over, we
   were not privy to the unreported communications and events surrounding
   these bidding cases. In addition, because of the small number of
   instances of auctioning and the variation in fee proposals used in
   those cases, definitive conclusions cannot be stated regarding the
   success of auc- tions. There have been insufficient numbers of bidding
   cases to allow us to draw inferences about whether, in general, using
   an auction procedure has resulted in a greater benefit to the class
   than if some other method had been used. Notwithstanding these caveats,
   we believe the experiences de- scribed herein will go a long way in
   informing the debate. The Task Force was also interested in obtaining
   the views of a sample of judges who have used only the traditional
   non-auction methods of appointing class counsel. The Task Force wanted
   to learn, among other things, the criteria judges use when appointing
   class counsel, whether cer- tain criteria are more important than
   others, the problems, if any, that have arisen regarding selec- tion of
   counsel, and how such problems were resolved. In addition, the Task
   Force was interested in learning the interviewees' suggestions
   regarding procedures that might improve the traditional method of
   appointment. We interviewed a small nonrandom sample of judges with
   experience handling securities and/or antitrust cases. At the minimum,
   judges had to have managed at least five class actions within the past
   five years and also to have been assigned a class action within
   calendar year 2000. The interview results offer a snapshot of judicial
   experience, and are thus not representative since a small nonrandom
   sample was used. III. Summary of Cases Auctioning the Role of Class
   Counsel In this section, we present a snapshot of selected
   characteristics in cases where judges have used a bidding process to
   select class counsel. Many of these are discussed more fully in various
   sections of the report. Below we summarize the characteristics
   presented in Table 1, which immediately follows. A. Number of Cases and
   Judge Participation We identified fourteen class actions in which
   judges have used competitive bidding either in at- tempting to select
   or actually selecting class counsel. Seven judges have used the
   practice to date. Judge Vaughn Walker of the Northern District of
   California has used the procedure most fre- quently (five cases),
   followed by Judge Milton Shadur of the Northern District of Illinois
   (three cases) and Judge William Alsup of the Northern District of
   California (two cases). Judge Alfred J. Lechner, Jr., of the District
   of New Jersey employed it twice in In re Lucent. Judges who have used
   the practice once include Judges William Walls of the District of New
   Jersey, Joan Lenard of the Southern District of Florida, and Lewis
   Kaplan of the Southern District of New York. The practice has occurred
   most frequently in the Northern District of California (seven times)
   followed by the Northern District of Illinois (three times). B. Type of
   Case Of the fourteen cases, twelve are or were securities actions and
   the other two were antitrust actions (In re Amino Acid Lysine and In re
   Auction Houses). Of the securities actions, three were filed before
   passage of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act: In re Oracle ,
   In re Wells Fargo, 6 Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class
   Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 and In re California Micro
   Devices. The remaining nine securities cases-Cylink, Sherleigh Asso-
   ciates, In re Cendant, In re Bank One, In re Network Associates, In re
   Lucent, In re Comdisco, In re Quintus, and In re Commtouch-were filed
   after the PSLRA and were subject to the statutory presumption that the
   institutional investor with the largest financial loss should serve as
   lead plain- tiff and select class counsel (with the approval of the
   court). Some scholars and judges believe that presumption precludes the
   use of competitive bidding. In the post-PSLRA cases, the majority of
   judges first decided the lead plaintiff issue and then asked for bids.
   In two cases, In re Network Associates and In re Commtouch, the court
   ordered the lead plaintiff to conduct the auction. C. Case Status
   Currently, eight of the fourteen cases have terminated and six are
   pending. One case, In re Cen- dant, involves two actions: the
   non-Prides claims (allegations involving, among other things, ac-
   counting irregularities) and the Prides claims (allegations involving
   materials containing false and misleading statements). The non-Prides
   litigation has terminated, and both the settlement and at- torneys' fee
   award were appealed to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. The Third
   Circuit upheld the settlement and plan of allocation, but vacated the
   fee award, holding that the district court erred in using an auction to
   appoint lead counsel and set attorneys' fees. The Prides litigation is
   still active. The attorneys' fee award in that action was also appealed
   to the Third Circuit, which vacated the award and returned the case to
   the district court for resolution. D. Number of Bids Submitted Based on
   available information, the number of bids submitted ranged from two to
   twenty-one. The average number of bids submitted was seven and the
   median was eight.23 Overall, bids reflected lower percentage fee awards
   than the firms might have been expected to obtain under a
   percentage-of-fund method. Information on whether the winning bidder
   selected by the court was also the lowest bidder in price terms alone
   is only available for cases in which we were able to make this
   determination definitively, often possible only after settlement was
   reached. E. Most Frequent Bidder and Winning Bidder In several of the
   cases, the number and identity of the bidders remain under seal. In
   cases where bidder information was known, we found fifty-four firms had
   expressed an interest in either serv- ing as lead or co-counsel. The
   most frequent bidder was Leiff, Cabraser & Heimann, which sub- mitted
   bid proposals in six cases. The following three firms, Milberg, Weiss,
   Bershad, Hynes & Lerach, Weiss & Yourman, and Cohen, Milstein,
   Hausfeld, & Toll, submitted proposals in five cases. The most frequent
   winning bidders were the law firms of Leiff, Cabraser & Heimann and
   Milberg, Weiss, Bershad, Hynes & Lerach-each was appointed lead counsel
   in two cases. 23. See infra note 295. 7 Auctioning the Role of Class
   Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 F. Party
   Opposition to Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel In the majority of
   the cases, parties did not oppose the court's decision to use bidding.
   In the few cases where parties objected, opposition was not strong
   enough to deter the judges from using the procedure. A common argument
   raised against the use of bidding was that it contradicts the legis-
   lative intent of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act for the
   largest institutional investor to serve as lead plaintiff and select
   lead counsel. G. Settlement Amounts Of the fourteen cases, eight
   terminated by way of settlement.24 In these cases, gross settlement
   amounts ranged from a high of $3 billion25 to a low of $13 million.
   Most of the settlements were between approximately $25 million and $50
   million. H. Class Recoveries Generally, monetary distributions to the
   class routinely exceeded attorneys' fees by substantial margins. The
   majority of class recoveries was over 90% of the settlement fund and
   ranged from approximately 95% in In re Auction Houses to 77.5% in In re
   Oracle . I. Attorneys' Fees Attorneys' fees were generally less than
   the reported percentages in other class actions in the re- spective
   circuits. The majority of fee awards was less than 9% (may or may not
   include expenses) of the total recovery and ranged from a low of
   approximately 5% in In re Auction Houses to a high of 22.5% in In re
   Oracle . In two cases, In re Amino Acid Lysine and In re Bank One, the
   winning bid contained a volun- tary cap on the total amount of
   attorneys' fees. In both cases, fee awards were approximately 7% of the
   total class recovery. In In re Amino Acid Lysine, the figure represents
   the attorney fee alone and does not include the amount reimbursed for
   expenses. 24. In re Cendant is counted as one case even though it
   involved two actions and two settlements. 25. See infra note 57. 8
   Table 1: Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel-Summary of Case
   Characteristics Percentage of Percentage of Total Settlement Challenge
   to Total Recovery That Went to Case Name, Docket Number of Court Chose
   Court's That Went to the Class Counsel 32 No. (District and Status of
   Pre- or Post- Bids Winning the Lowest Decision to Settlement Class
   (Recovery (Attorneys' Fees Judge) Case PSLRA 26 Submitted 27 Bidder 28
   Bidder 29 Use Bidding Amount 30 Amount) 31 + Expenses) In re Oracle
   Sec. Terminated Pre-PSLRA Four33 (class Lowey, Dan- Yes Yes35 $25
   million36 77.5% 22.5% Litig., No. 90-CV- action against nenberg,
   ($19,375,000) ($4.8 million in 931 (N.D. Cal., Oracle) Bemporad, fees +
   $825,000 in Vaughn Walker) Brachtl & expenses) Selsinger Three (class
   Lowey, Dan- action against nenberg, Arthur An- Bemporad, dersen)
   Brachtl & Selsinger34 26. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
   of 1995, Pub. L. No. 104-67, 109 Stat. 737 (1995) (codified in various
   sections of 15 U.S.C.). The Reform Act contains a series of
   requirements governing federal securities fraud, including specific
   directives about selection of a lead plaintiff and the reten- tion of
   class counsel. 27. The number of bids submitted is based on information
   available at this time and is accurate to the best of our knowledge.
   28. The winning bidder refers to the one bid chosen by the court from
   among the competing bids following the court's analysis of the bids,
   taking into account qualitative factors in addition to the proposed fee
   terms. Thus, "winning bidder" is not necessarily the "lowest bidder" in
   price terms. The firm or firms who submitted this winning bid were
   selected to serve as class counsel, unless the court allowed for a
   right of first refusal. See infra notes 48 and 54. 29. Information on
   whether the winning bidder selected by the court was also the lowest
   bidder in price terms alone is only available for cases in which we
   were able to make this determination definitively, often possible only
   after settlement was reached. See infra Section VI.E. 30. Refers to the
   total amount of recovery to the class prior to the deduction of
   attorneys' fees and expenses. Recovery amounts may be approximations.
   If an "N/A" appears in the cell, the information is not available, most
   likely because the case is currently active. 31. Refers to the total
   amount of recovery to the class after the deduction of attorneys' fees
   and expenses. Percentages and amounts may be approxima- tions. 32.
   Unless otherwise indicated, the percentage of total settlement
   collected by class counsel includes attorneys' fees and expenses.
   Percentages and amounts may be approximations. 33. Four of the firms
   representing Oracle shareholders bid to serve as class counsel for the
   class action against Oracle. For the class action against Ar- thur
   Andersen, the court received three bids. Two of these firms had also
   submitted bids to represent the Oracle shareholders. 34. Judge Walker
   had to order a second round of bidding when an additional defendant,
   Arthur Andersen, was named after the winning bidder had been selected.
   The same firm was chosen to represent both the Oracle shareholders and
   those with actions against Arthur Andersen. 35. A losing bidder
   challenged both the court's appointment of a specific lead plaintiff
   and the competitive bidding process in general. 36. The class received
   $23.25 million in the settlement reached with Oracle, and $1.75 million
   from Arthur Anderson. Percentage of Percentage of Total Settlement
   Challenge to Total Recovery That Went to Case Name, Docket Number of
   Court Chose Court's That Went to the Class Counsel* No. (District and
   Status of Pre- or Post- Bids Winning the Lowest Decision to Settlement
   Class (Recovery (Attorneys' Fees Judge) Case PSLRA* Submitted* Bidder*
   Bidder* Use Bidding Amount* Amount)* + Expenses) In re Wells Fargo
   Terminated Pre-PSLRA Three Leiff, Yes No $13,713,709.54 78% 22% Sec.
   Litig., No. 91- Cabraser & ($10,632,035) ($2,873,150 in CV-1944 (N.D.
   Heimann fees + $208,605 in Cal., Vaughn expenses) Walker) In re
   California Terminated Pre-PSLRA Two37 N/A N/A No $26 million38 84.3%39
   15.7%40 Micro Devices Sec. ($21,590,090.20) ($4,028,345.80 in Litig.,
   No. 94-CV- fees and ex- 2817 (N.D. Cal., penses) Vaughn Walker)
   Wenderhold v. Pending Post-PSLRA Two41 Innelli & Yes No N/A N/A N/A
   Cylink Corp., No. Molder 98-CV-4292 (N.D. Cal., Vaughn Walker) In re
   Quintus Sec. Pending Post-PSLRA Five Weiss & Yes Yes42 N/A N/A N/A
   Litig., No. 00-CV- Yourman 4263 (N.D. Cal., Vaughn Walker) *Note: For
   detailed explanation of category, see supra first page of Table 1, page
   10. 37. Although 12 different plaintiffs' firms had filed suit, only
   two filed proposals to represent the class. Judge Walker found only one
   firm's proposal to be serious but ended up not selecting that firm
   because of its early settlement discussions with the defendants. A
   replacement institutional lead plaintiff was appointed and allowed to
   select class counsel (Hogan & Hartson) and negotiate the terms of class
   representation. 38. Total settlement and attorneys fees are based on a
   combination of a settlement reached on May 20, 1997, with all
   defendants except one, and a set- tlement with the remaining defendant
   on May 24, 2001. Note that settlement and attorneys' fees were not
   obtained by class counsel chosen from a competi- tive bidding process.
   See supra note 37. 39. Id. 40. Id. 41. During the first round of
   bidding only one firm submitted a bid, which was rejected because it
   did not comply with the court's directives. The court initiated a
   second round of bidding in which it received three proposals. Sometime
   later, the original firm that had submitted its bid withdrew its
   proposal, leaving the court to choose the winning bid from among the
   two remaining proposals. 42. Petitioner filed a petition for writ of
   mandamus with the Ninth Circuit arguing, among other things, that the
   district court erred by denying the peti- tioner, who had been selected
   lead plaintiff, his right under the PSLRA and the Constitution to
   select counsel of his own choice. Percentage of Percentage of Total
   Settlement Challenge to Total Recovery That Went to Case Name, Docket
   Number of Court Chose Court's That Went to the Class Counsel* No.
   (District and Status of Pre- or Post- Bids Winning the Lowest Decision
   to Settlement Class (Recovery (Attorneys' Fees Judge) Case PSLRA*
   Submitted* Bidder* Bidder* Use Bidding Amount* Amount)* + Expenses) In
   re Amino Acid Terminated N/A (antitrust Eight Kohn, Swift Yes Yes43 $49
   million 93% 7% Lysine Antitrust action) & Graf ($45.5 million)44 ($3.5
   million)45 Litig., No. 95-CV- 7679 (N.D. Ill., Milton Shadur) In re
   Bank One Terminated Post-PSLRA Nine Wechsler Yes No $45 million 93% 7%
   Shareholders Class Harwood ($42 million) ($2.75 million in Actions, No.
   00- Halebian & fees + $250,000 in CV-880 (N.D. Ill., Feffer LLP
   expenses) Milton Shadur) In re Comdisco Sec. Pending Post-PSLRA Three
   Wolf Halden- Will depend No N/A N/A N/A Litig., No. 01-CV- stein Adler
   on stage of 2110 (N.D. Ill., Freeman & recovery and Milton Shadur) Herz
   recovery amount In re Network Asso- Terminated Post- PSLRA Five46 Leiff
   Yes No $30 million 92% 8% ciates, Inc., No. 99- Cabraser ($27,559,187)
   ($2,080,000 in CV-1729 (N.D. Heimann & fees + $360,813 in Cal., William
   Al- Bernstein expenses) sup) In re Commtouch Pending Post-PSLRA Bids
   were Pending Pending Pending N/A N/A N/A Software LTD, due on July
   Securities Litig., No. 20, 2001 01-C-00719 (N.D. Cal., William Al- sup)
   *Note: For detailed explanation of category, see supra first page of
   Table 1, page 10. 43. Some of the plaintiffs' attorneys questioned the
   efficacy of the auction process as well as noting that such a process
   violated Supreme Court prece- dent. 44. Figure represents total
   recovery to the class prior to the deduction of expenses. 45. Figure
   represents the attorney fee alone and does not include the amount
   reimbursed for expenses. 46. To the best of our knowledge at least five
   firms submitted bids. Percentage of Percentage of Total Recovery Total
   Settlement Challenge to That Went to That Went to Number of Court Chose
   Court's the Class Class Counsel* Case Name, Docket No. Status of Pre-
   or Post- Bids the Lowest Decision to Settlement (Recovery (Attorneys'
   Fees (District and Judge) Case PSLRA* Submitted* Winning Bidder*
   Bidder* Use Bidding Amount* Amount)* + Expenses) In re Cendant Corp.
   Pending Post- PSLRA Twelve47 Unknown48 (Kirby, McInery Unknown49 No50
   $341,480,861 94%51 6% PRIDES Litig., No. 98- & Squire) ($319,783,905)
   ($19,329,463 in CV-2819 (D.N.J., Wil- fees + $2,367,493 liam H. Walls)
   in expenses)52 *Note: For detailed explanation of category, see supra
   first page of Table 1, page 10. 47. Seven firms bid for appointment as
   lead counsel to the non-Prides claims, two firms as to both the Prides
   and non-Prides claims, three firms for Prides claims only. 48. The
   identity of the firm who submitted the lowest qualified bid for the
   Prides claims was not revealed. See infra note 49. The court gave the
   original firm representing the lead plaintiff for the Prides claims
   (Kirby, McInery & Squire) the right to step in and match the terms of
   what the court found to be the lowest qualified bid, which they did.
   49. Because litigation is still pending regarding plaintiffs
   representing the Prides claims, the court decided to keep the identity
   of the firm who submit- ted the lowest qualified bid and its analysis
   in choosing the lowest qualified bidder for the Prides claims as well
   as the terms of the bids under seal. Thus, we are not certain whether
   the bid chosen by the court is indeed the lowest bid in price terms
   alone. The Third Circuit recently decided that Judge Walls abused his
   discretion in sealing the bids and ordered the district court to unseal
   the bids as well as any other sealed documents related to the bids. In
   re Cendant Corp. Sec. Litig., No. 98-C-1664 (3d Cir. Aug. 8, 2001)
   (order vacating sanction for violation of district court's sealing
   order and requiring unsealing of all previously sealed documents). 50.
   However, the court-appointed lead plaintiffs did submit a letter to the
   court expressing their concerns that the auction process would result
   in the court compelling lead plaintiffs to prosecute the action with
   attorneys they did not choose and, in fact, with whom they may have
   conflicts. 51. The settlement consisted of 29,161,474 Rights valued at
   $341,480,861. After subtracting the attorneys fees and expenses for
   lead counsel ($21,696,956), 27,308,617 Rights remained. Proofs of Claim
   were filed with respect to 26,606,422 Rights, of which 22,502,782
   Rights were validated by the claims administrator as of Aug. 8, 1999.
   Thus, the class received 100% recovery for their losses from the
   settlement fund. No claiming class members had or will have their
   recovery reduced by class counsels' attorney fees and expenses. 52. On
   March 21, 2001, the Third Circuit allowed the settlement to stand, but
   vacated the fee award, stating, among other things, that the District
   Court's fee opinion was "too cursory." In re Cendant Corp. Prides
   Litig., 243 F.3d 722, 733 (3d Cir. 2001). Percentage of Percentage of
   Total Settlement Challenge to Total Recovery That Went to Case Name,
   Docket Number of Court Chose Court's That Went to the Class Counsel*
   No. (District and Status of Pre- or Post- Bids the Lowest Decision to
   Settlement Class (Recovery (Attorneys' Fees Judge) Case PSLRA*
   Submitted* Winning Bidder* Bidder* Use Bidding Amount* Amount)* +
   Expenses) In re Cendant Corp. Terminated Post-PSLRA Twelve53 Unknown54
   (Bern- No55 No56 3,186,500,00057 91.3% 8.7% Litig. (non-Prides), stein,
   Litowitz Ber- ($2,909,407,337) ($262,468,857 in No. 98-CV-1664 ger &
   Grossman fees + (D.N.J., William H. LLP and Barrack, $14,623,806 in
   Walls) Rodos & Bacine) expenses)58 Sherleigh Assocs. v. Pending
   Post-PSLRA Unknown59 Milberg Weiss Unknown60 Yes61 N/A N/A N/A
   Windmere-Durable Bershad Hynes & Holdings, Inc., No. Lerach LLP
   98-CV-2273 (S.D. Fla., Joan Lenard) *Note: For detailed explanation of
   category, see supra first page of Table 1, page 10. 53. See supra note
   47. 54. The identity of the firm that submitted the lowest qualified
   bid for the non-Prides claims was not revealed. See supra note 49. The
   court permitted the two original firms representing the lead plaintiffs
   for the non-Prides claims (Bernstein, Litowitz, Berger & Grossmann LLP
   and Barrack, Rodos & Ba- cine) to match the bid and agree to the terms
   of what the court found to be the lowest qualified bid, which they did.
   55. Two other firms were lower in terms of their fees as a percentage
   of total class recovery. 56. See supra note 50. 57. Figure represents a
   combined settlement derived from a $2,851,500,000 cash payment from the
   Cendant settlement and a $335,000,000 cash pay- ment from the Ernst &
   Young settlement. The settlement was upheld on appeal to the Third
   Circuit. In re Cendant Corp. Litig., Nos. 00-2520, 00-2683, 00- 2708,
   00-2709, 00-2733, 00-2734, 00-2769, 00-3653 (3d Cir. Aug. 28, 2001).
   58. The attorneys' fee awarded pursuant to the court-ordered auction
   was vacated by the Third Circuit on appeal. In re Cendant Corp. Litig.,
   Nos. 00- 2520, 00-2683, 00-2708, 00-2709, 00-2733, 00-2734, 00-2769,
   00-3653 (3d Cir. Aug. 28, 2001) 59. The court order analyzing competing
   bids and choosing the winning bidder has been permanently sealed. 60.
   Id. 61. Two law firms filed a motion for reconsideration arguing they
   should be allowed to represent the class alone, or alternatively
   allowed a "right of first refusal" to meet the best bid. Percentage of
   Percentage of Total Settlement Challenge to Total Recovery That Went to
   Case Name, Docket Number of Court Chose Court's That Went to the Class
   Counsel* No. (District and Status of Pre- or Post- Bids the Lowest
   Decision to Settlement Class (Recovery (Attorneys' Fees Judge) Case
   PSLRA* Submitted* Winning Bidder* Bidder* Use Bidding Amount* Amount)*
   + Expenses) In re Lucent Tech- Pending Post-PSLRA Three Milberg Weiss
   Unknown63 No N/A N/A N/A nologies, Inc.,62 No. (Lucent I) Bershad Hynes
   & 00-CV-621 (D.N.J., Lerach LLP Alfred Lechner) (Lucent I) Seventeen
   Bernstein Litowitz (Lucent II) Berger & Grossman LLP (Lucent II) In re
   Auction Terminated N/A (antitrust Twenty-one Boies, Schiller & Yes No
   $512 million 94.8% 5.2% Houses Antitrust action) Flexner ($485.25
   million) ($26.75 million in Litig., No. 00-CV- fees and ex- 648
   (S.D.N.Y., penses) Lewis Kaplan) *Note: For detailed explanation of
   category, see supra first page of Table 1, page 10. 62. On December 26,
   2000, the court consolidated the Lucent II complaints (accounting fraud
   allegations) with the Lucent I actions (dissemination of materially
   false & misleading statements). The court ordered a sealed bid auction
   in both cases. 63. Although the basic fee structure of the bids were
   discussed, the actual fee percentages proposed by the bidders
   (including the winning bidders) were not disclosed in either Lucent I
   or II. On August 23, 2001, Judge Lechner issued an order to show cause
   regarding why the submitted sealed bids should not be unsealed. A show
   cause hearing is scheduled for September 14, 2001. Auctioning the Role
   of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001
   IV. Auction of Class Counsel as an Alternative to Traditional
   Appointment A. Courts' Rationales for Soliciting Bids Our review and
   analysis of case opinions, orders, and other relevant documents reveal
   a variety of reasons that judges in the fourteen bidding cases
   auctioned the lead counsel position. The reasons vary depending on the
   type of case, but generally fall into five categories: (1) to replicate
   the marketplace for legal services and reduce attorneys' fees; (2) to
   improve attorney-proposed case representation; (3) to give the class
   the benefit of the low risk of nonrecovery; (4) to reduce the
   expenditure of judicial time; and (5) to compensate for the presence of
   an inadequate or uninterested plaintiff. These categories are not
   mutually exclusive and several served as the bases in a number of
   cases. Below we describe the categories in more detail. 1. To replicate
   the private marketplace and reduce attorneys' fees We found the most
   common reason judges gave for employing bidding was to foster
   competition among counsel by replicating the private marketplace for
   legal services. The court's ultimate goal was to appoint counsel who
   would best represent the interests of the class at the lowest cost.
   Typi- cally, in nonclass cases, plaintiffs negotiate at arm's length to
   get the best attorney for the best price. In class actions, the
   scenario is very different. Most of the plaintiffs play no role in
   deciding who should serve as lead attorney and, consequently, have no
   informed opinion about the quality of proposed counsel or the terms of
   their proposed representation. In In re Oracle, Judge Walker was faced
   with "two warring camps of lawyers, including a very prominent
   Philadelphia law firm sparring over which group of famous lawyers
   should be designated class counsel. Both sides made scurrilous charges
   about the other."64 After observing and tolerating that behavior for a
   period of time, Judge Walker asked the parties to make a presen- tation
   to the court about why they should be selected class counsel. Sometime
   later at a confer- ence, one of the attorneys approached Judge Walker
   and told him "don't worry about the case. We've got the whole thing
   worked out."65 Judge Walker interpreted this to mean that the arrange-
   ment "was at the lawyer's benefit and not at the benefit of the
   class."66 "[S]hortly thereafter, the formerly warring lawyers submitted
   a proposal for a steering committee of the lawyers to run the
   litigation for a straight thirty percent of the recovery, plus out of
   pocket expenses."67 At that point, Judge Walker decided to use a
   bidding procedure, saying it "most closely approximates the way class
   members themselves would make these decisions and should result in
   selection of the most appropriately qualified counsel at the best
   available price. Moreover, competitive bidding [would help] to ensure
   detachment and impartiality on the part of the court, which are
   essential to the ju- 64. Third Circuit Task Force on Selection of Class
   Counsel, Reporter's Transcript of Proceedings, Judge Vaughn Walker at
   38 (March 16, 2001). 65. Id. at 3839. 66. Id. at 39. 67. Written
   statement of Vaughn R. Walker, Third Circuit Task Force on Selection of
   Class Counsel 8 (Philadelphia, Pa. Mar. 16, 2001). 15 Auctioning the
   Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center
   2001 dicial process."68 Judge Walker noted "the prospect of
   competition, it seems, brought peace to the fractious lawyers."69 In a
   subsequent securities case, Judge Walker explained that competitive
   bidding was best suited to simulate the outcome of a market process,
   and because the "court's task is to approxi- mate as closely as
   possible the attorney selection and fee bargain that the class itself
   would strike if it were able to do so," he ordered lawyers interested
   in representing the class to submit competi- tive proposals.70 In In re
   California Micro Devices, while twelve different plaintiffs' firms had
   filed suits, only two filed proposals to represent the class, and Judge
   Walker found only one firm's proposal to be serious. Judge Walker
   refused to appoint that firm as class counsel because he felt they had
   un- dermined the bidding process by engaging in settlement discussions
   with the defendants and thus had obtained an "edge in the bidding
   process."71 Judge Walker explained the importance of the court acting
   as surrogate client for the class by setting class counsel's terms of
   engagement com- petitively. Specifically, he wrote, "[w]hen terms of a
   class counsel compensation are not estab- lished through a competitive
   process or one that emulates the results of such a process, the court
   has failed to guarantee that the class representatives will `fairly and
   adequately protect the interests of the class.'"72 Judge Walker
   commented that "[w]hile . . . the court can always resort to the lode-
   star or percentage based means of attempting to mock a competition,
   these methods are no substi- tute for actual competition."73 Judge
   Walker saw the competitive bidding process as a monitoring technique
   designed to make the court's "`surrogate clients' capable of ensuring
   that class action litigation does not be- come a vehicle which serves
   class counsel before all others" by enabling the court to monitor fee
   arrangements between class counsel and class members.74 In an antitrust
   case, In re Amino Acid Lysine, Judge Shadur addressed some of these
   same issues saying "[i]f these were typical lawsuits-with one party (or
   more than one party acting jointly) suing one or more defendants-the
   free market process by which each client or set of cli- ents chooses
   its own lawyer would of course control. Every client makes the choice
   on the predi- cate that the lawyer chosen is the best possible choice
   under all the circumstances, and the courts do not interfere with such
   choices just because clients are often wrong in those judgments. But
   the difficulty comes when a lawyer who is not of one's choosing is
   foisted on one, as is inevitable in the class action context. And the
   fact that the putative class representative who brings an action has
   chosen a particular lawyer . . . gives no assurance-or even presumptive
   assurance-that the selected lawyer is the best choice for the absent
   class members. In that situation, unlike the one- on-one situation
   where the court properly stays out of the decision-making process, the
   analogy of the direct market breaks down and only the court can bring
   objectivity to bear on the issue."75 The court "must stand in the
   position of an intermediary acting for the class members in
   establishing rates."76 Likewise, in In re Bank One Judge Shadur stated
   that if bidding ". . . evokes a significant 68. In re Oracle Sec.
   Litig., 131 F.R.D. 688, 690 (N.D. Cal. 1990). 69. Id. 70. In re Wells
   Fargo Sec. Litig., 156 F.R.D. 223, 22526 (N.D. Cal. 1994). 71. In re
   California Micro Devices Sec. Litig., No. 94-C-2817, 1995 WL 476625, at
   *5 (N.D. Cal. 1995). 72. Id. (citing Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a)(4)). 73. Id.
   74. In re California Micro Devices, 168 F.R.D. 257, 262 (N.D. Cal.
   1996). 75. In re Amino Acid Lysine Antitrust Litig., 918 F. Supp. 1190,
   1194 (N.D. Ill. 1996). 76. Id. 16 Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel
   in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 number of bids
   from well-qualified law firms or law firm combinations it is best
   calculated to pro- vide precisely the efficient market information that
   serves as the `ideal proxy' for the one-to-one lawyer-client agreement
   in conventional litigation."77 Similarly, in In re Cendant, Judge Walls
   adopted the rationale of Judges Walker and Shadur that the most
   effective way to establish reasonable attorney fees is through
   marketplace or adver- sarial competition.78 Likewise, in Sherleigh
   Associates, Judge Lenard explained "[w]hile the Court takes no position
   on the validity of the claims alleged, early selection of class counsel
   and deter- mination of their compensation serve the interest of the
   class by enabling these matters to be re- solved competitively."79 The
   judge indicated that "[a]s several judges and commentators have dis-
   cussed, `auctioning the privilege to serve as class counsel [helps to]
   promote price competition across law firms' and ensures that a baseline
   quality of representation will be maintained at the lowest possible
   price."80 2. To improve attorney-proposed case representation Federal
   Rule of Civil Procedure 23(a)(4) directs the representative parties to
   fairly and adequately protect the interest of the class. In the cases
   we studied, the courts not only required class protec- tion from the
   lead plaintiffs, but from those seeking to serve as class counsel as
   well. For example, in In re Oracle, Judge Walker explained that by
   breaking up the lawyer consortiums identified with the lodestar method,
   competitive bidding "should also increase the effectiveness of monitor-
   ing because-professional courtesies, aside-the disappointed bidders are
   likely to be on the lookout for shortcomings in the performance of the
   winner."81 In Sherleigh Associates, Sherleigh, a profit-sharing plan,
   was one of approximately thirteen lead plaintiff designees that
   appeared to be represented by a consortium of ten law firms.82 When
   Sherleigh originally filed its suit it was represented by two law
   firms. Sometime thereafter, an- other plaintiff, who was represented by
   three firms, filed a similar class action. As other plaintiffs filed
   suits additional firms became involved, thus creating a hierarchy of
   firms. One firm sought to have itself and another firm designated as
   lead counsel and also as co-chairs of the proposed Ex- ecutive
   Committee. Two other firms would be appointed members of the Executive
   Committee, and so forth. After reviewing the proposed arrangement,
   Judge Lenard wrote "[r]egardless of whether this arrangement
   constitutes an agreement among the first-to-the courthouse firms with
   their later-arriving colleagues to share any potential recovery (and
   the risk of no recovery) in this endeavor, or the affirmative choice of
   Sherleigh to enter into an extremely complicated representa- tion
   arrangement, the Court rejects this proposal as not in the best
   interests of the class."83 Finally, in In re Amino Acid Lysine, Judge
   Shadur received the case after another judge had entered the case's
   first pretrial order, which, among other things, had designated lead
   counsel for 77. In re Bank One Shareholders Class Actions, 96 F. Supp.
   2d 780, 78485 (N.D. Ill. 2000). 78. In re Cendant Corp. Litig., 182
   F.R.D. 144 (D.N.J. 1998). But see In re Cendant Corp. Litig., Nos.
   00-2520, 00-2683, 00-2708, 00-2709, 00-2733, 00-2734, 00-2769, 00-3653,
   slip op. at 111-12 (3d Cir. Aug. 28, 2001) (vacating the district
   court's attorney fee awarded pursuant to an auction holding that "there
   is no need to `simulate' the market in cases where a properly-selected
   lead plaintiff conducts a good-faith counsel selection process because.
   . . [in cases decided under the PSLRA] the fee agreed to by the lead
   plaintiff is the market fee."). 79. Sherleigh Assocs. LLC v.
   Windmere-Durable Holdings, Inc., 184 F.R.D. 688, 692 (S.D. Fla. 1999).
   80. Id. at 693 (citations omitted). 81. In re Oracle Sec. Litig., 136
   F.R.D. 639, 649 (N.D. Cal. 1991). 82. Sherleigh Assocs. LLC V.
   Windmere-Durable Holdings, Inc., 184 F.R.D. 688, 693 (S.D. Fla. 1999).
   83. Id. at 693 n.1. 17 Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class
   Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 the entire set of
   multidistrict cases.84 After reviewing the order, Judge Shadur
   concluded that not all of the plaintiffs' attorneys had had the
   opportunity to provide input about the appointment of lead counsel. 3.
   To give the class the benefit of the low risk of non-recovery In In re
   Auction Houses, Judge Kaplan determined very early on that the case was
   well-suited for selection of lead counsel by an auction. First, the
   case had received a great deal of media attention and consequently
   attracted large numbers of competent plaintiffs' attorneys.85 Second,
   the relief being sought was monetary damages rather than equitable
   relief. Judge Kaplan thought this fact would make the comparison of
   bids easier.86 Third, Christie's had confessed to price fixing with
   Sotheby's and agreed to provide evidence to the Department of Justice
   in exchange for amnesty.87 Consequently, there was a lot of information
   available about the merits of the case and potential damages. Judge
   Kaplan thought this information alone provided potential bidders with a
   strong base of information to calculate potential damages.88 4. To
   reduce the expenditure of judicial time Some judges who advocate
   auctioning suggest that there is less expenditure of judicial time,
   com- pared to the ex post review of fee petitions required under other
   methods. For example, in In re Amino Acid Lysine, Judge Shadur was
   concerned about encountering numerous attorney fee re- quests at the
   end of litigation. He thought that the best interests of the
   plaintiffs' class would not be served by the kind of proliferation of
   plaintiffs' counsel that ordinarily marks "cases that so often spring
   up after a triggering event-whether in the field of securities,
   antitrust or in some other area potentially ripe for class
   treatment."89 5. To account for the presence of an inadequate or
   uninterested lead plaintiff Of the twelve securities cases where
   auctioning has been used, nine were filed after 1995 and therefore
   subject to the PSLRA. It is generally agreed that the one goal of PSLRA
   was to strengthen the role of the lead plaintiff and replace
   lawyer-driven litigation with client-driven liti- gation. Title 15 of
   the U.S. Code, ยง 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(iii)(I)(bb) created a presumption that
   the plain- tiff with the largest financial interest in the action
   should serve as the lead plaintiff. In several cases filed after the
   PSLRA, the court had to address whether the proposed lead plaintiff's
   choice of counsel was in the best interest of the class, whether the
   proposed lead plain- tiff was an adequate plaintiff, and whether the
   proposed lead plaintiff possessed the necessary skills to select lead
   counsel. In In re Lucent, after the court had provisionally appointed a
   lead plaintiff, the lead plaintiff sought approval of its selection of
   the law firm Milberg Weiss to serve as lead counsel. After re- viewing
   lead plaintiffs' motions, Judge Lechner decided to auction the role of
   lead counsel be- cause he had seen no evidence that the proposed lead
   plaintiff had selected and negotiated with counsel at arm's length. He
   found that a competitive auction was "necessary to protect the inter-
   84. In re Amino Acid Lysine Antitrust Litig., 918 F. Supp. 1190, 1192
   (N.D. Ill. 1996). 85. See In re Auction Houses Antitrust Litig., 197
   F.R.D. 71, 82 (S.D.N.Y. 2000). 86. Id. 87. Id. 88. Id. 89. In re Amino
   Acid Lysine, 918 F. Supp. at 1192. 18 Auctioning the Role of Class
   Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center 2001 ests of
   the proposed class."90 Judge Lechner pointed to the discretion afforded
   to the court in ap- proving counsel as justification for its
   intervention.91 "The lead plaintiff owes a fiduciary duty to obtain the
   highest quality representation at the lowest price."92 The court
   explained "[b]ased solely on a review of the Moving Brief. . . , it is
   not possible to determine whether the Proposed Lead Plaintiffs actively
   sought out and made an informed decision regarding the choice of lead
   counsel. In support of their selection, the Proposed Lead Plaintiffs
   state only that they have `retained com- petent and experienced counsel
   to prosecute these claims...'"93 Further, Judge Lechner explained,
   "Proposed Lead Plaintiffs have provided no evidence or indication of
   the proposed fee arrange- ment, its terms, or discussions or proposals
   leading up to it. They have provided no indication as to how the
   selection of Proposed Lead Counsel was arrived at or what
   considerations went into the decision. Significantly, there is no
   indication of whether other counsel were interviewed or even
   considered. This is troubling."94 The court continued, saying "[t]he
   judgment of a lead plaintiff is not dispositive in the appointment of
   lead counsel. Approval of lead counsel necessarily requires an
   independent evaluation of, among other considerations, the
   effectiveness of proposed class counsel to ensure the protection of the
   class."95 In both In re Network Associates and In re Commtouch, Judge
   Alsup had the lead plaintiff solicit proposals from attorneys or firms
   interested in serving as class counsel. In In re Network Associates,
   lead plaintiff, carrying out its statutory responsibility under 15
   U.S.C. ยง 78u-4(a)(3)(v) to select and retain counsel, proposed that the
   firm Barrack, Rodos & Bacine be chosen lead coun- sel.96 Lead
   plaintiffs in its motion to the court noted the firm's experience and
   track record in secu- rities class actions. The court, however, was
   concerned with the recommendation because of the firm's representation
   in another case.97 Consequently, the court ordered the lead plaintiff
   to reopen the issue of who would serve as class counsel and set forth
   the steps it wanted lead plaintiff to complete in recommending class
   counsel, including publicizing a request for written proposals from
   counsel, evaluating the proposals, and interviewing the candidates.98
   The court also indicated that the lead plaintiff might still "after
   full consideration of all candidates, recommend the Barrack firm, but
   it should do so only after an honest effort to select the highest
   quality counsel at the most efficient price."99 In In re Commtouch,
   Judge Alsup was faced with the possibility of having a plaintiff, Mr.
   Jacobi, a resident of Israel with limited English skills, serve as lead
   plaintiff. Judge Alsup thought these factors might interfere with the
   plaintiff's ability to monitor the proceedings and to partici- pate in
   the progress of the suit, including selecting class counsel.100 No
   other proposed lead plain- tiff candidate had overcome the statutory
   presumption in favor of Mr. Jacobi. In looking at the specifics facts
   of the case, Judge Alsup indicated 90. In re Lucent Techs. Inc., Sec.
   Litig., 194 F.R.D. 137, 156 (D.N.J. 2000). 91. Id. at 155. 92. Id. 93.
   Id. at 156. 94. Id. 95. Id. at 155. 96. In re Network Assocs. Inc.,
   Sec. Litig., 76 F. Supp. 2d 1017, 1033 (N.D. Cal. 1999). 97. The court
   commented on allegations that the Barrack firm and two others had
   failed to obtain lead plaintiff approval of the settlement in advance
   from one of ten plaintiffs. Consequently, the court-approved settlement
   is being challenged on appeal. Id. 98. Id. 99. Id. 100. In re Commtouch
   Software Ltd. Sec. Litig., No. C 01-00719, Order Re Lead Plaintiff
   Selection and Class Counsel Selection 2 (N.D. Cal. June 27, 2001). 19
   Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal
   Judicial Center 2001 [w]ere the Court faced with an institutional
   investor as the lead plaintiff, experienced in the due diligence of
   selecting counsel for complex litiga- tion, then the
   competitive-proposal procedure might well be modified or eliminated so
   long as the institutional investor could otherwise show that it had
   exercised due diligence in carrying out its fiduciary responsibility to
   select counsel in the best interests of the class. Where, however, the
   lead plaintiff is not so qualified, it is necessary to instruct the
   lead plain- tiff on his or her responsibilities and to establish a
   due-diligence proce- dure for selection and approval of counsel.101
   Judge Alsup concluded that in this case none of the candidates has any
   experience in selecting such counsel, including the presumptive lead
   plaintiff, who had not exercised sufficient due dili- gence in
   selecting class counsel.102 To address this deficiency, Judge Alsup
   developed a detailed procedure that the lead plaintiff would follow in
   selecting class counsel, which included a ques- tionnaire to interview
   class counsel candidates.103 The court also decided, given the unique
   geo- graphic aspects of this case, that the class would benefit by
   having counsel in Israel, fluent in He- brew, as well as trial counsel
   in the United States. In addition, the court required lead plaintiff to
   certify that the court's procedures would be followed and that he would
   work and cooperate fully with counsel even if it resulted in approval
   of class counsel other than his present lawyer.104 Recently, Judge
   Walker had to address, in two similar, but unrelated securities
   actions, whether the lead plaintiffs had exercised due diligence in
   selecting lead counsel that would act in the best interest of the
   class. In In re Copper Mountain Networks Securities Litigation,105
   Judge Walker approved lead plaintiff's selection of counsel, stating
   that the lead plaintiff had selected counsel on terms that appeared to
   be in the best interests of the class. This was not the case in the
   other action, In re Quintus. In that case, after analyzing the
   positions of those seeking to serve as lead plaintiff, Judge Walker
   concluded that he was faced with "disinterested, figurehead plain-
   tiffs."106 One had not responded to the court's inquiries and none had
   been present at a required hearing. The court determined that the two
   potential lead plaintiffs had presented little evidence that they had
   negotiated a competitive fee arrangement or had the incentive and
   ability to do so.107 The court finding none of the lead plaintiffs to
   be adequate believed it was left with only two op- tions: (1) decline
   to appoint any lead plaintiff, finding them all inadequate; or (2)
   appoint Colin Hill as a nominal plaintiff and then intervene in the
   selection of counsel.108 The court ultimately appointed Colin Hill as
   lead plaintiff and intervened in selecting class counsel. Earlier, we
   discussed the presumption established by the PSLRA that the plaintiff
   determined to be the most adequate also has the responsibility of
   selecting counsel. In the cases filed after the PSLRA, we were
   interested in learning how often the courts thought it necessary to
   address in their opinions or orders two issues: (1) whether auctioning
   was consistent with the lead plaintiff 101. Id. at 6 (citing In re
   Quintus Sec. Litig., Nos. 00-C-4264 & 00-C-3894, 2001 WL 709204, at *
   45 (N.D. Cal. Apr. 12, 2001)). 102. Id. at 4. 103. See infra Appendix A
   for a reproduction of the questionnaire. 104. In re Commtouch, at 4.
   105. No. 00-C-3849, 2000 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 8552 (N.D. Cal. May 31,
   2001). 106. In re Quintus Sec. Litig., Nos. 00-C-4264 & 00-C-3894, 2001
   WL 709204, at *17 (N.D. Cal. Apr. 12, 2001). 107. Id. 108. Id. at *16
   20 Auctioning the Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal
   Judicial Center 2001 provision of the PSLRA; and (2) whether the court
   believed that lead plaintiff's choice of counsel was entitled to
   deference. We found in the majority of post-PSLRA securities cases,
   courts believed that the PSLRA allowed them discretion to accept or
   deny the lead plaintiff's recommendation of counsel, or choose some
   other method to select counsel.109 For example, in In re Cendant Judge
   Walls indi- cated the provisions of the PSLRA that give the court
   discretionary authority to approve or dis- prove of lead plaintiff's
   choice of counsel (15 U.S.C. ยง 77z-1(a)(3)(B)(v)), and the provisions
   that require the court to only award attorney fees and expenses if they
   are reasonable in relation to the class' recovery (15 U.S.C. ยง
   77z-1(a)(6)), allow the court to look to other mechanisms (i.e., use of
   an auction and thus simulate the free market in selection of class
   counsel) to establish reasonable attorney fees.110 Judge Walls said
   "[t]he Court is required to protect the interests of all members of the
   class. If Congress had intended otherwise with its PSLRA, it could have
   easily permitted lead plaintiff to designate and retain counsel without
   judicial approval. It did not."111 However, on appeal of the settlement
   and the attorneys' fee awarded pursuant to the court- ordered auction,
   the Third Circuit addressed the question of whether the district
   court's decision to hold an auction in In re Cendant was consistent
   with the PSLRA.112 After examining the overall structure of the PSLRA's
   lead plaintiff section and the legislative history of the PSLRA, the
   Third Circuit concluded that an auction is not generally permissible in
   an ordinary Reform Act case be- cause it is inconsistent with the
   PSLRA's goal to "infuse lead plaintiffs with responsibility (and
   motivation) to drive a hard bargain with prospective lead counsel and
   to give deference to their stewardship."113 The court explained that
   "[a]lthough we believe that there are situations under which the PSLRA
   would permit a court to employ the auction technique, this was not one
   of them. Here, inasmuch as the Lead Plaintiff conducted its counsel
   search with faithful observance to the letter and spirit of the Reform
   Act, it was improper for the District Court to supplant the. . . [lead
   plaintiff's] statutorily-conferred right to select and retain lead
   counsel by deciding to hold an auc- tion."114 In Sherleigh Associates
   the court recognized that the PSLRA assigns the task of selecting
   counsel to the lead plaintiff but it also requires the court to ensure
   that the attorney fees awarded are reasonable.115 Judge Lenard wrote:
   "[a] court presented with competing claims for designation and
   concerned with ensuring quality representation at a fair price is faced
   with a conundrum: What deference should be paid to the class
   representative's choice of counsel, as balanced against the court's
   obligation to the class to ensure such representation is of high
   quality and is provided at a fair price?"116 "[T]he Court determined
   that a sealed-bid auction best balances the interests of the class in
   high quality representation at a fair price with the Reform Act's
   provision that the pre- sumptive lead plaintiff selects class-counsel,
   subject to court approval."117 109. But cf. In re Razorfish, Inc. Sec.
   Litig., No. 00-C-9474, 2001 WL 476504 (S.D.N.Y. May 4, 2001); In re
   MicroStrategy Inc. Sec. Litig., 110 F. Supp. 2d 427, 43738 (E.D. Va.
   2000); Aronson v. McKesson HBOC, Inc., 79 F. Supp. 2d 1146, 1159 (N.D.
   Cal. 1999). 110. See In re Cendant Corp. Litig., 182 F.R.D. 144, 15051
   (D.N.J. 1998). 111. Id. at 151. 112. In re Cendant Corp. Litig., Nos.
   00-2520, 00-2683, 00-2708, 00-2709, 00-2733, 00-2734, 00-2769, 00-3653
   (3d Cir. Aug. 28, 2001). 113. Id. slip op. at 13, 10305. 114. Id. at
   13. 115. Sherleigh Assocs. LLC v. Windmere-Durable Holdings, Inc., 184
   F.R.D. 688, 693 (S.D. Fla. 1999). 116. Id. 117. Sherleigh Assocs., 186
   F.R.D. 669, 670 (S.D. Fla. 1999) (citations omitted). 21 Auctioning the
   Role of Class Counsel in Class Action Cases * Federal Judicial Center
   2001 In Cylink, Judge Walker noted although the PSLRA permits the lead
   plaintiff to select lead counsel to represent the class subject to the
   court's approval, he also recognized that the court must ensure that
   the class receives quality representation at a fair price and cannot
   simply defer to lead plaintiff's choice of counsel. Judge Walker
   concluded that because of the disadvantages re- sulting from the lead
   plaintiff being an individual investor (lacking the expertise and
   resources of a large institutional investor) "together with the
   inherent conflicts and agency problems in class ac- tions and the
   limited ability of the court to address such problems through case
   management . . . determination of lead counsel through a competitive
   bidding process is necessary to protect the interests of the putative
   class members."118 Further, in In re Quintus Judge Walker indicated
   that "[u]nder the PSLRA, the selection of lead counsel is `subject to
   the approval of the Court.' 15 U.S.C. ยง 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(v). This
   statutory delegation, along with the `court's fiduciary obligation to
   the plaintiff class,' . . . requires the Court to ensure that
   qualified, competitively priced counsel is selected. Thus, if the Court
   deter- mines that no prospective lead plaintiff has the ability to
   negotiate with counsel on behalf of the class, the court must itself
   intervene to ensure that interests of the class are protected."119 In
   In re Bank One, Judge Shadur chose lead plaintiff at the same time he
   appointed lead coun- sel.120 After examining each of the submissions
   seeking lead plaintiff status, he found that the shareholders
   identified as the Pension Group best fit the statutory considerations
   for presumptive purposes. He also made it clear that although the
   members of the Pension Group were entitled to presumptive status under
   ยง78u-4(a)(3)(B) as the "most adequate plaintiffs," this presumption
   would be rebutted (despite the amounts that they have at stake
   personally) if the presumptive lead plaintiffs were to insist on their
   class counsel (law firms of Schoengold & Sporn P.C. and Quinlan &
   Crisham, Ltd.) handling the action on a materially less favorable
   contractual basis than by the most favorable qualified bidder among the
   lawyers submitting bids. "It should be remembered that although
   Subsection (a)(3)(B)(v) provides that the most adequate plaintiffs may
   `select and retain counsel to represent the class,' that opportunity is
   expressly made `subject to the approval of the court.'"121 In its
   recent opinion finding that the district court abused its discretion by
   conducting an auc- tion in In re Cendant, the Third Circuit disagreed
   with Judge Shadur's view that "any movant who is unwilling to be
   represented by the firm or firms that a court determines to be the
   lowest quali- fied bidder in a court-conducted auction has necessarily
   shown that it will not fairly and ade- quately represent the interests
   of the class."122 The court found this argument to be inconsistent with
   the statutory text of the PSLRA, which clearly states that the lead
   plaintiff is to "select and retain" lead counsel and the court is
   responsible for deciding whether to "approve" that choice. "Judge
   Shadur's reading of the statute in effect confers upon the court the
   right to `select and re- tain' counsel and limits the lead plaintiff to
   deciding whether to acquiesce in those choices, thus eliminating any
   discretion on the part of the lead plaintiff."123 The court explained
   that "[w]hen a properly-appointed lead plaintiff asks the court to
   approve its choice of lead counsel and of a re- tainer agreement, the
   question is not whether the court believes that the lead plaintiff
   could have 118. Wenderhold v. Cylink Corp., 188 F.R.D. 577, 587 (N.D.
   Cal. 1999). 119. Werner v. Quintus Corp., No. 00-C-4263, 2001 WL
   789445, at *4 (N.D. Cal. Feb. 2, 2001) (case citation omitted). 120.
