http://www.ihs.gov/GeneralWeb/Helpcenter/access.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

   Section 508 Alternate Web Format

   For Alternative Access to Web Documents for Individuals With
   Disabilities:

   Contact the IHS Web Team Accessibility Help Desk (520) 670-4784, which
   is staffed during business hours (8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Central time), and
   they will assist you.

   OR

   Contact the individual listed on the preceding web page in the "Contact
   Us" or "This Page Maintained By..." link. This individual is
   responsible for this specific web page and will be able to assist you.
   Otherwise, send e-mail to the IHS feedback desk: feedback@ihs.gov.

   Synopsis of Section 508 Accessibility Requirements:

   Section 508 requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure,
   maintain, or use electronic and information technology (EIT), Federal
   employees with disabilities have comparable access to and use of
   information and data as Federal employees who have no disabilities,
   unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. Section 508 also
   requires that individuals with disabilities, who are members of the
   public seeking information or services from a Federal agency, have
   comparable access to and use of information and data as the public
   without disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the
   agency.

   Although Federal agencies have an explicit statutory obligation to make
   all EIT that they develop, maintain or use compliant with Section 508,
   the current emphasis is on newly procured EIT because it is the
   category that is explicitly enforceable by legal action. Procurement
   awards made on or after June 25, 2001, are subject to Section 508 (see
   FAR Final Rule).

   According to the Access Board, the Section 508 requirements do not
   apply retroactively to pre-existing EIT. Specifically, the "Electronic
   and Information Technology Accessibility Standards: Economic
   Assessment," states that


     "The standards are to be applied prospectively and do not require
     Federal agencies to retrofit existing electronic and information
     technology. As agencies upgrade and change their electronic and
     information technology, they must comply with the standards."
     (See Chapter 2.1 Final Standards)

   It should be noted, however, that other Federal regulations and
   guidelines (e.g., Section 501 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
   Act) require equal access for individuals with disabilities. Therefore,
   Federal agencies are required, upon request, to provide information and
   data to individuals with disabilities through an alternative means of
   access that can be used by the individuals.

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Wednesday October 31, 2001  4:50 PM
