http://www.waterrights.ca.gov/disclaimer.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                              SWRCB Home
                              Board Business
                              Laws/Regulations
                              News/Media Info
                              Regional Boards
                              Water Quality
                              Water Education




                      Water Rights Links:
                      Water Rights Home
                      Water Right Information
                      Decisions, Orders and Resolutions
                      Public Notices
                      Bay-Delta Program
                      Applications/Petitions
                      Water Transfers
                      Hearings



   [epaswrcbdwr.gif]



   __________ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)______
   (*)  My CA   ( )   SWRCB Site


   Web Site Disclaimer

   This computing system is operated by the State of California and is for
   official use only. Unauthorized access, even attempted access, of any
   state computing system is a violation of California Penal Code Section
   502 and applicable federal law, and is subject to prosecution.
   Accessing information on this system implies consent to monitoring.

   All information provided by the State Water Resources Control Board
   (SWRCB), Division of Water Rights, on this web site is made available
   to provide immediate access for the convenience of interested persons.
   While the Division of Water Rights and SWRCB believes the information
   to be reliable, human or mechanical error remains a possibility.
   Therefore, SWRCB does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness,
   timeliness or correct sequencing of the information. Neither SWRCB nor
   any of the sources of the information shall be responsible for any
   error or omissions, or for the use or results obtained from the use of
   this information. All warranties of any kind, express or implied,
   including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability,
   fitness for a particular purpose, freedom from contamination by
   computer viruses and non-infringement of proprietary rights are
   disclaimed. Changes may be periodically added to the information
   herein; these changes may or may not be incorporated in any new version
   of the publication. If you have obtained information from or about
   SWRCB from a source other than SWRCB, be aware that electronic data can
   be altered subsequent to original distribution. Data can also quickly
   become out-of-date. It is recommended that careful attention be paid to
   any metadata associated with a file and the originator of the data or
   information be contacted with any questions regarding appropriate use.
   If you find any errors or omissions, we encourage you to report them to
   Kevin Long (klong@waterrights.swrcb.ca.gov), Web Master, at (916)
   341-5346.

   Neither SWRCB nor its contributors is responsible for the contents of
   any off-site pages referenced. The user specifically acknowledges that
   neither SWRCB nor its contributors is liable for the defamatory,
   offensive, or illegal conduct of other users, links or third parties
   and that the risk of injury from the foregoing rests entirely with the
   user. Links from this web site to other sites on the World Wide Web do
   not constitute an endorsement by the SWRCB. These links are provided as
   an information service only. It is the responsibility of the Web user
   to evaluate the content and usefulness of information obtained from
   other sites.


                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2001 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
