http://www.fedtrip.gov/Privacy.htm



TRX Technology Services

Privacy Policy and Disclaimer


   [image001.gif]

   TRX Technology Services operates the software that runs FedTrip.
   FedTrip is a version of TRX’s commercial software product ResAssist.
   FedTrip allows the Federal government traveler to access and book
   government contract travel rates not available to the general public.
   Your organization’s travel agency then processes the travel request and
   issues the ticket for you.


Privacy


   TRX is committed to protecting your privacy.

   At TRX, your right to privacy is a primary concern.  That’s why we help
   you maintain control over your personal data on the Internet.  We
   adhere to these policies for protecting the information you provide us
   during a visit to our site. (FedTrip.gov)


Confidentiality


   There are several areas on our site where we request information from
   you.  We ask for this information so that we can enhance your visit to
   our site or to follow up with you after your visit.  When making
   reservations, we ask you for your name, email address and other
   relevant personal information that is needed for your travel agent to
   process your requests and issue tickets.


   The information you provide to TRX will be kept confidential and used
   only to support your customer relationship with FedTrip.gov and your
   travel agent.  Information regarding you or your travel purchase will
   not be sold, shared or rented to any outside organization for its use
   in marketing or solicitation.


   You may receive occasional email or telephone calls from TRX.  These
   communications will be informational and service-oriented only and will
   not be solicitations.  There may be notices about new features,
   training opportunities, etc.   You may receive a call to follow up on a
   service issue you have experienced.   Permission to contact you will
   have been given by your organization.  Your privacy will continue to be
   protected during these communications.


   You will not receive any unsolicited communications from TRX regarding
   any commercial offers or advertisements at any time.


Security


   Secure Sockets Layering

   TRX strives to protect the privacy of your credit card information.  We
   utilize the industry standard security measures available through your
   browser, called SSL (Secure Sockets Layering) encryption.  Your credit
   card number is entered only when you complete your personal profile.
   Your credit card information cannot be read as it travels over the
   Internet.  The characters you type are scrambled, making it impossible
   for a third party to intercept the card number.


   TRX also implements measures to protect your personal information
   off-line.  Access is restricted to employees who have a “need to know,”
   and those employees must use passwords to enter the website.


   At TRX, when you provide your personal information, including name,
   address, phone number, email address, etc., we will not give or sell
   this information to any outside company for its use in marketing or
   solicitation.  Your profile information is conveyed to your travel
   agency for use in processing your reservation and for providing you
   with enhanced service.  We have implemented security measures designed
   to protect all data we collect against unauthorized access, including
   measures to prevent anyone from using your credit card number.  In
   addition, consumer protection laws protect you against the unauthorized
   use of your credit card.


Does TRX use Cookies?

   TRX’s FedTrip software does not use cookies (small text files a website
   can use to track the activities of users over time and across different
   websites).


Will TRX sell my information?

   TRX does not sell, trade or rent your personal information to others.
   TRX may provide statistics about our customers, sales, traffic patterns
   and related site information to reputable vendors, but these statistics
   will include no personally identifiable information.


Linked Internet Sites


   Users should be aware that links to other Internet sites may be
   available on FedTrip.  Once you leave FedTrip and go to another site,
   be aware that those sites may follow privacy policies that differ from
   the provisions provided herein.  TRX is not responsible for, and
   expressly disclaims any and all liability related to, actions of such
   linked sites, their privacy policies or the content of such sites.



Your Questions and Comments

   We invite you to learn more about TRX.  Please visit our website at
   http://www.trx.com.  You will find email feedback forms there as well
   as on the FedTrip.gov site.  Our mailing address is:  TRX Technology
   Services, 7557 Rambler Road, Suite 1300, Dallas, TX  75231.


Your Consent

   This website is not directed to children under 13 years of age, and
   children under 13 years of age shall not use this site to submit any
   individually identifiable information about themselves.  By using our
   website, you consent to the collection and use of your information by
   TRX in accordance with this privacy policy.  If we decide to update or
   modify our privacy policy, we will post the changes on this page so
   that you will always have the ability to know what information we
   collect, how we use the information, and under what circumstances we
   deliver the information.  Your continued use of this site after any
   such changes constitutes your acceptance of the new terms.



   [image003.jpg]
