http://www.erie.gov/maps/Introduction.htm

                             General Description

   INTRODUCTION: The "Erie County Internet Mapping System" (ECIMS) is
   designed to provide access to the most popular layers of digital maps
   in the County's Geographic Information System (GIS). Through this
   interactive system, users can create and print their own maps, and
   locate information, on a variety of subjects. Property parcels, roads,
   parks, schools districts, and environmental data are examples of the
   types of maps included in the Internet Mapping System.

   USERS ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED REVIEW THE "HELP/ INSTRUCTIONS" PAGES
   PRIOR TO USING THE MAPPING SYSTEM.

   Clicking on the "Internet Mapping System" button on the left side of
   the screen will open a new browser window,and start the mapping
   application. This will make it easy to switch back and forth between
   the Help pages and the mapping application by using the Taskbar at the
   bottom of your computer screen.

   To facilitate your use of this system, please note the following
   important items:
     * Use the "CONTENTS" boxes on the left of the screen to access the
       "Help/ Instructions" pages, to start the interactive Internet
       Mapping System, and to contact Erie County about this application.
       In the future, these boxes can also be used to obtain information
       on the County's digital map data and demographic data (these
       features are currently not available).
     * For technical reasons, this application operates best with
       Microsoft Internet Explorer. Netscape users may encounter
       difficulties with several of the functions, including the
       appearance of the frames that information is displayed in.
     * The browser window should be "maximized" to fill your computer
       screen.
     * This "Internet Mapping System" transmits large files between the
       users computer and the central server. This can take time,
       especially on a slow modem connection to the Internet. Be Patient!
       At times it may appear that the system has stopped- generally it is
       just working on transmitting a lot of data to the user's computer.
       Queries on the parcel layer, in particular, can take several
       minutes on a slow modem, since the server is working on a database
       of 350,000 records, and transmitting the results back to the user
       in a table and on a map.
     * Please note that the map or table that is displayed on the user's
       computer is an image- it does not have any links into the actual
       databases. There are no connections between the user and the actual
       data, and the system cannot be used to alter the data in any
       manner.
     * To create a "bookmark" in your browser for the Erie County Internet
       Mapping System, create the bookmark on this Introductory page, or
       the Help page, rather than the ECIMS application page. Directly
       bookmarking the ECIMS page will capture parameters in the URL which
       may not allow the application to start.

   The ECIMS is maintained by the Erie County Department of Environment
   and Planning, Division of Planning, with "Information Technology"
   assistance from the Erie County Division of Information and Support
   Services. The Division of Planning also maintains the Erie County
   Geographic Information System, using ArcInfo and ArcView software
   products from ESRI.

   This Internet Mapping System will evolve from its' initial release in
   the fall of 2000. Additional layers of maps, and improved users
   interfaces are anticipated to be added in the future. Users are
   encouraged to check back frequently to see these changes. If you have
   comments, questions, or suggestions about this Internet Mapping System,
   please contact us using the "Contact Us" link on the left side of this
   page.

   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS: Several of the basemaps used in this application were
   obtained through the County's membership in the New York State GIS Data
   Sharing Cooperative. The "Major Roads", "Roads", and water features
   layers are copyrighted by the New York State Department of
   Transportation. The "Parcels" layer is copyrighted by Erie County.

   The "Erie County Internet Mapping System" was developed under contract
   by the GIS Resource Group of D'Alba and Donovan, Amherst New York. The
   system runs on ArcIMS^® software by ESRI, Redlands, California.

   The "Erie County Internet Mapping System" site is being hosted on the
   World Wide Web by the Southern Tier West Regional Planning and
   Development Board, as part of their "Develop Western New York" program.
   The cooperation of the STWRPDB is greatly appreciated.

   DATA DISCLAIMER: In making this data available, Erie County makes no
   representations of any kind, including but not limited to warranties of
   fitness for a particular use, nor are any such warranties to be implied
   with respect to the information, data, or service furnished herein. In
   no event shall Erie County become liable to users of these data, or any
   other party, for any loss or damages, consequential or otherwise,
   including but not limited to time, money, or goodwill, arising from the
   use, operation, or modification of the data. In using these data, users
   further agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Erie County for
   any and all liability of any nature arising out of or resulting from
   the lack of accuracy or correctness of the data, or use of the data.
