http://icesat4.gsfc.nasa.gov/ia_home/ers1_2_bias.html

               Investigation of the Observed ERS-1/ERS-2 Bias

   Investigation of the ERS-2 and ERS-1 IDRs in the ocean near Greenland
   inferred that there was a significant bias of around 40cm between
   elevations calculated from ranges from the two satellites with ERS-2
   being lower. This is very close to the documented difference in the OPR
   data for ERS-1 and ERS-2 of 40.9 cm due to the differences in the
   eps-tau-g correction (Femenias 1997, "ERS QLOPR and OPR Range
   Processing",ER-TN-RS-RA -0022) though we have found no documentation
   stating that this bias exists for ERS-1 and ERS-2 data processed from
   the WAP.

   To validate that this bias was not regional, we processed global ocean
   data from the WAP ERS-1 for January and July from 1993-1996 for ERS-1
   and for 1995-1996 for ERS-2. All the like-mission crossover statistics
   show means of 0-2+/-20 cm whereas the cross-mission statistics show
   means of 30+/-17 cm with ERS2 being lower. The data processing was
   exactly the same as for over the ice sheets except that we applied an
   EM bias of 5.5% of the SWH to both missions. This showed ERS2 WAP ocean
   ranges had a significant bias with respect to ERS1 WAP ranges, however
   it was not the expected 40-41cm. This may be due to the fact that we
   did not use optimal ocean processing. Optimal ocean processing would
   include using the radiometer correction instead of a model for the wet
   troposphere delay, applying a barotropic correction, using a more
   accurate em bias calculation, and better editing.

   We also compared one pass each of ERS-1 WAP and ERS-2 WAP data ove r
   the Arctic Ocean to the respective OPR data. We compared the
   measurement values after internal and Doppler corrections were made.
   The OPR measurement also had the OCOG retracking correction applied,
   but the OPR does not give the actual value used. An article written in
   1994 by Johnathan Bamber stated that they used the 50% OCOG and a look
   up table. The look up table value is given on the OPR and is set to
   zero for these two passes.

   The mean of the difference between the ERS-1 WAP measurement and the
   OPR was 6.8+/- 17.5 cm when the OCOG 50% retracker was used and
   4.1+/-25.3 cm when the GSFC V4 retracker was used on the WAP
   measurement. For ERS-2 the mean difference was 7.9+/-10.5cm for the
   OCOG 50% retracker and 1.7+/-14.3 cm for the GSFC V4 retracker. If the
   ERS-1 and ERS-2 WAP data were processed the same way we would have
   expected close to a 40 cm mean between the ERS-2 WAP and the OPR
   measurement. Our results infer that the ERS-2 WAP has some correction
   different than the ERS-1 WAP. We suspect that the eps-tau-g correction
   was modified for ERS-2 WAP based on the better ERS-2 ground
   calculation.

   The eps-tau-g recharacterization was confirmed in an E-mail message
   from Pierre Femenias. The text of this message follows:
   Dear Anita,
   Please find hereafter information on the ERS Radar Altimeter external
   range biases which I hope will answer to your query from July 27 2000
   regarding the WAP data.
     * You mention in your mail that the Venice external bias is applied
       to the ERS-2 OPR. This is not correct. No external bias is applied
       to the ERS-1/2 OPR. The difference in range between the two is
       explained by a different characterisation parameter (eps_tau_g).
       See document 'ERS QLOPR and OPR range processing, 20/5/96,
       ER-TN-RS-RA-022.
     * No external bias as well is applied to the ERS-1/2 WAP data. We
       agree on this. (for information, the Venice bias is only applied
       operationally to the ERS-1 QLOPR data).
     * The bias you found in the WAP data of about 41 cm has the same
       origin as the one existing in the OPR data, i.e. a different
       characterisation parameter (eps_tau_g). The ERS-1 and ERS-2 data
       are all processed the same way on the different processing chains
       (OPR, URA, WAP, QLOPR) but of course with the proper sensor
       characterization data.

   As developed in the note mentioned here above, the determination of the
   ERS-2 characterisation data has been performed with more reliable
   techniques leading to different parameters as it is the case for the
   eps_tau_g parameter. The difference between ERS-1 and ERS-2 is very
   close to the Venice bias and it is for this reason that most of the
   users apply this value (40.9 cm) as external bias to the ERS-1 data
   instead of the Venice one.
