http://www.gil.house.gov/flagregs.htm

   Office of Congressman Gil Gutknecht
   Black Bar Home Contact Gil Site Map
   About Congressman Gil Gutknecht Information about Minnesota Visiting
   Washington, DC Constituent Services The E-Line Multimedia Issues and
   Votes

   Privacy Policy

   On the Floor House Calendar


American Flag Etiquette

United State Code
Title 36; Chapter 10

   Sec. 171. Conduct during playing
   Sec. 172. Pledge of allegiance to the flag; manner of delivery
   Sec. 173. Display and use of flag by civilians; codification of rules
   and customs; definition
   Sec. 174. Time and occasions for display
   Sec. 175. Position and manner of display
   Sec. 176. Respect for flag
   Sec. 177. Conduct during hoisting, lowering or passing of flag
   Sec. 178. Modification of rules and customs by President

   Sec. 171. Conduct during playing

   During rendition of the national anthem when the flag is displayed, all
   present except those in uniform should stand at attention facing the
   flag with the right hand over the heart. Men not in uniform should
   remove their headdress with their right hand and hold it at the left
   shoulder, the hand being over the heart. Persons in uniform should
   render the military salute at the first note of the anthem and retain
   this position until the last note. When the flag is not displayed,
   those present should face toward the music and act in the same manner
   they would if the flag were displayed there.

   Sec. 172. Pledge of allegiance to the flag; manner of delivery

   The Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, ''I pledge allegiance to the Flag
   of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it
   stands, one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for
   all.'', should be rendered by standing at attention facing the flag
   with the right hand over the heart. When not in uniform men should
   remove their headdress with their right hand and hold it at the left
   shoulder, the hand being over the heart. Persons in uniform should
   remain silent, face the flag, and render the military salute.

   Sec. 173. Display and use of flag by civilians; codification of rules
   and customs; definition

   The following codification of existing rules and customs pertaining to
   the display and use of the flag of the United States of America is
   established for the use of such civilians or civilian groups or
   organizations as may not be required to conform with regulations
   promulgated by one or more executive departments of the Government of
   the United States. The flag of the United States for the purpose of
   this chapter shall be defined according to sections 1 and 2 of title 4
   and Executive Order 10834 issued pursuant thereto.

   Sec. 174. Time and occasions for display

   (a) Display on buildings and stationary flagstaffs in open; night
   display

   It is the universal custom to display the flag only from sunrise to
   sunset on   buildings and on stationary flagstaffs in the open.
   However, when a patriotic effect is desired, the flag may be displayed
   twenty-four hours a day if properly illuminated during the hours of
   darkness.

   (b) Manner of hoisting

   The flag should be hoisted briskly and lowered ceremoniously.

   (c) Inclement weather

   The flag should not be displayed on days when the weather is inclement,
   except when an all weather flag is displayed.

   (d) Particular days of display

   The flag should be displayed on all days, especially on New Year's Day,
   January 1; Inauguration Day, January 20; Lincoln's Birthday, February
   12; Washington's Birthday, third Monday in February; Easter Sunday
   (variable); Mother's Day, second Sunday in May; Armed Forces Day, third
   Saturday in May; Memorial Day (half-staff until noon), the last Monday
   in May; Flag Day, June 14; Independence Day, July 4; Labor Day, first
   Monday in September; Constitution Day, September 17; Columbus Day,
   second Monday in October; Navy Day, October 27; Veterans Day, November
   11; Thanksgiving Day, fourth Thursday in November; Christmas Day,
   December 25; and such other days as may be proclaimed by the President
   of the United States; the birthdays of States (date of admission); and
   on State holidays.

   (e) Display on or near administration building of public institutions

   The flag should be displayed daily on or near the main administration
   building of every public institution.

   (f) Display in or near polling places

   The flag should be displayed in or near every polling place on election
   days.

   (g) Display in or near schoolhouses

   The flag should be displayed during school days in or near every
   schoolhouse.

   Sec. 175. Position and manner of display

   The flag, when carried in a procession with another flag or flags,
   should be either on the marching right; that is, the flag's own right,
   or, if there is a line of other flags, in front of the center of that
   line.

   (a) The flag should not be displayed on a float in a parade except from
   a  staff, or as provided in subsection (i) of this section.

   (b) The flag should not be draped over the hood, top, sides, or back of
   a vehicle or of a railroad train or a boat. When the flag is displayed
   on a motorcar, the staff shall be fixed firmly to the chassis or
   clamped to the right fender.

   (c) No other flag or pennant should be placed above or, if on the same
   level, to the right of the flag of the United States of America, except
   during church services conducted by naval chaplains at sea, when the
   church pennant may be flown above the flag during church services for
   the personnel of the Navy. No person shall display the flag of the
   United Nations or any other national or international flag equal,
   above, or in a position of superior prominence or honor to, or in place
   of, the flag of the United States at any place within the United States
   or any Territory or possession thereof: Provided, That nothing in this
   section shall make unlawful the continuance of the practice heretofore
   followed of displaying the flag of the United Nations in a position of
   superior prominence or honor, and other national flags in positions of
   equal prominence or honor, with that of the flag of the United States
   at the headquarters of the United Nations.

   Sec. 176. Respect for flag

   No disrespect should be shown to the flag of the United States of
   America; the flag should not be dipped to any person or thing.
   Regimental colors, State flags, and organization or institutional flags
   are to be dipped as a mark of honor.

   (a) The flag should never be displayed with the union down, except as a
   signal of dire distress in instances of extreme danger to life or
   property.

   (b) The flag should never touch anything beneath it, such as the
   ground, the floor, water, or merchandise.

   (c) The flag should never be carried flat or horizontally, but always
   aloft and free.

   (d) The flag should never be used as wearing apparel, bedding, or
   drapery. It should never be festooned, drawn back, nor up, in folds,
   but always allowed to fall free. Bunting of blue, white, and red,
   always arranged with the blue above, the white in the middle, and the
   red below, should be used for covering a speaker's desk, draping the
   front of the platform, and for decoration in general.

   (e) The flag should never be fastened, displayed, used, or stored in
   such a manner as to permit it to be easily torn, soiled, or damaged in
   any way.

   (f) The flag should never be used as a covering for a ceiling.

   (g) The flag should never have placed upon it, nor on any part of it,
   nor attached to it any mark, insignia, letter, word, figure, design,
   picture, or drawing of any nature.

   (h) The flag should never be used as a receptacle for receiving,
   holding, carrying, or delivering anything.

   (i) The flag should never be used for advertising purposes in any
   manner whatsoever. It should not be embroidered on such articles as
   cushions or handkerchiefs and the like, printed or otherwise impressed
   on paper napkins or boxes or anything that is designed for temporary
   use and discard. Advertising signs should not be fastened to a staff or
   halyard from which the flag is flown.

   (j) No part of the flag should ever be used as a costume or athletic
   uniform. However, a flag patch may be affixed to the uniform of
   military personnel, firemen, policemen, and members of patriotic
   organizations. The flag represents a living country and is itself
   considered a living thing. Therefore, the lapel flag pin being a
   replica, should be worn on the left lapel near the heart.

   (k) The flag, when it is in such condition that it is no longer a
   fitting emblem for display, should be destroyed in a dignified way,
   preferably by burning.

   Sec. 177. Conduct during hoisting, lowering or passing of flag

   During the ceremony of hoisting or lowering the flag or when the flag
   is passing in a parade or in review, all persons present except those
   in uniform should face the flag and stand at attention with the right
   hand over the heart. Those present in uniform should render the
   military salute. When not in uniform, men should remove their headdress
   with their right hand and hold it at the left shoulder, the hand being
   over the heart. Aliens should stand at attention. The salute to the
   flag in a moving column should be rendered at the moment the flag
   passes.

   Sec. 178. Modification of rules and customs by President

   Any rule or custom pertaining to the display of the flag of the United
   States of America, set forth herein, may be altered, modified, or
   repealed, or additional rules with respect thereto may be prescribed,
   by the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States,
   whenever he deems it to be appropriate or desirable; and any such
   alteration or additional rule shall be set forth in a proclamation.

   Home | Back to Top



MORE FLAG INFORMATION:

   The Star-Spangled Banner Web Site (hosted by the Smithsonian
   Institution)

   American Treasures (hosted by the Library of Congress)
     __________________________________________________________________

   Click for Print Version
     About Gil | Minnesota | Visiting DC | Services
   E-Line | Multimedia | Issues & Votes
   Home | Contact | Site Map
