http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/projects/index.cfm

   Polymer division banner



Research Projects


   The research performed at the Polymers Division is responsible for
   providing standards, measurement methods, and fundamental concepts of
   polymer science to assist those US industries that produce or use
   synthetic polymers, plastics, and rubber in essential parts of their
   business. Please also note the NIST disclaimer.


Characterization and Measurement

   Research focuses on ways to characterize polymers for processibility,
   properties, and performance.

   bullet Standard Reference Materials
   Recertification of Standard Reference Material SRM 1473, a polyethylene
   melt flow standard is in progress. Measurements leading to the
   certification of SRM 2888, a narrow fraction polystyrene have been
   completed. This material was used in an international interlaboratory
   comparison of mass distribution by matrix assisted laser
   desorption/ionization, MALDI, mass spectrometry, the mass spectrum will
   be included in the report of certification as ancillary data).
   Measurements are in progress to certify a secopnd standard nonlinear
   fluid for rheological measurements.
   bullet Quantitative Mass Spectrometry of Polymers
   Determine relationships among sample preparation methods, sample
   structure and quality of MALDI- MS data, including an evaluation of
   matrix materials possessing both glassy and crystalline solid states.
   Characterize samples by SANS, SEM and spectroscopy to establish
   connections between morphology and spectral quality. Determine origins
   of anomalous measurements of molecular mass distributions in MALDI- MS
   data on polymers with broad mass distributions. Develop data analysis
   software to improve quantification of MALDI- MS for determining
   molecular mass distribution of synthetic polymers.
   bullet Biomaterials Standards and Data and Industry Interactions
   Identify needs of biomaterials producers and users for reference
   materials and data, including organizing and co-hosting NIST-Health
   Care Industry workshop, Standards for Biomedical Materials and Devices,
   to be held, June 13 - 14, 2001. Develop strategies for development of
   reference biomaterials and data, including participating organizations
   and funding. Coordinate production of reference orthopaedic grade
   UHMWPE cubes for radiation cross- linking tests and analysis. Provide
   reference material cubes of UHMWE for swelling studies in ASTM Round
   robin testing. Form relationships within standards developing
   organizations wherein NIST expertise and responsibilities are
   appropriate.
   bullet Polyolefin Mass Spectrometry
   Matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight
   (TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) is a powerful method to determine masses
   of polymers, particularly biopolymers. Less work, and advancement of
   the method has occurred with synthetic polymers where the challenges of
   a distribution of masses and poor affinity to charged species have
   limited the method. Nonetheless, successful application of MALDI TOF MS
   has been made to synthetic polymers, such as poly (ethylene oxide) and
   polystyrene, that associate with ions. In this project we develop mass
   spectrometry for the analysis of saturated hydrocarbon polymers. We
   work with the polyolefin industry on developing MALDI TOF MS as a new
   method for determining molecular structure to complement traditional
   methods such as NMR and FTIR.
   bullet Optical Coherence Tomography
   A volumetric representation of the internal structure of a material in
   the micrometer to millimeter size scale is often required to understand
   how various properties of interest are interrelated. NIST has adapted
   optical coherence tomography (OCT), a recent method for medical
   imaging, to the realm of material science. OCT is used for meso-scale,
   volumetric characterization of polymer composites, polymer blends,
   biomaterials, and ceramic coatings that cannot be obtained by any other
   technique.

   More information on Characterization Measurement group


Electronic Materials

   The Electronics Applications Group researches microelectronics
   packaging and interconnection techniques and materials.

   bullet Characterization of Porous Low-k Dielectric Constant Thin Films
   Provide structure and property information (composition, porosity, CTE,
   average pore size, moisture uptake, pore connectivity) of nanoporous
   low- k thin films to SEMATECH, material suppliers and other
   microelectronic companies. Develop contrast- matching technique to
   provide an alternative method of wall density measurement and new
   method of measuring wall heterogeneity.
   bullet Permittivity of Polymer Dielectic Films in the Microwave Range
   Novel dielectric hybrid materials based on organic resins and
   ferroelectric ceramics with high dielectric constants are being
   developed by the industry to advance miniaturization and functional
   performance of high-speed electronics . These materials are being used
   to construct integrated passive devices and de-coupling capacitance
   films with low impedance that are embedded within chip substrates and
   printed circuit sub-assemblies. Such a new approach is essential as
   conventional technologies utilizing discrete components cannot provide
   adequate solutions at frequencies above 1 GHz, which are critical for
   wireless communications technologies. The goal of this project is to
   provide the microelectronics industry with accurate measurement
   technique of permittivity for dielectric films at microwave frequencies
   and develop fundamental framework to identify the key structural and
   molecular attributes that control dielectric properties of polymer
   composites.
   bullet Fundamental Measurements for the Development of Polymers for
          Next-Generation Lithography
   Photolithography is the driving technology and key enabler for the
   fabrication of integrated circuits with continuously decreasing feature
   sizes. It is largely the successful fabrication of smaller structures
   that have fueled the continued performance increases in
   microprocessors. Currently, state-of-the-art photolithography materials
   and processes can fabricate 130 nm features, but significant technical
   hurdles remain in making sub-100 nm features. These challenges include
   optics for new imaging radiation energies and the development of
   photoresists applicable at these wavelengths. In this project, our
   goals are to develop and apply our expertise in high-resolution
   metrology and polymer thin films to advance photoresist formulations
   and fabrication strategies. We are developing an integrated program of
   fundamental studies correlated with resist performance metrics that
   will have a broad industrial impact.

   More information on electronic Materials group


Biomaterials

   The Dental and Medical Materials Group helps develop new and improved
   materials and systems for the dental and health care industries.

   bullet Structure-Property Relationships in Dental Polymers
   Polymer based dental materials are increasingly being used in dentistry
   and allied biomedical fields. As part of a joint research effort
   supported by the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research
   and also involving collaboration with the American Dental Association
   Health Foundation Paffenbarger Research Center, NIST is providing the
   dental industry and the dental profession with a comprehensive
   knowledge base regarding polymeric dental materials that will help
   elucidate the in-vitro and in-vivo performance of materials.
   bullet Injectable Composite Bone Grafts: Biocompatibility and
          Controlled Release of Bioactive Molecules
   Provide the data and measurement methods necessary for the development
   of injectable composite bone grafts. Determine the controlled release
   of biologically active molecules from the composite bone grafts into
   simulated body fluid. Develop quantitative methods for evaluating the
   biocompatibility of polymeric scaffolds.
   bullet Bioactive Polymeric Composites for Mineralized Tissue
          Regeneration
   Crystalline hydroxyapatite (HAP) is considered to be the final stable
   product in the precipitation of calcium and phosphate ions from neutral
   or basic solutions and it is also the structural prototype of the major
   mineral component of bones and teeth. Recently, there has been
   increasing interest by biomaterials community in utilizing polymers of
   various types as matrices and as reinforcements (especially in fiber
   forms) for calcium phosphate-based composites. Customers for this
   technology include dental and biomedical manufacturers and
   practitioners.


   More information on Biomaterials group


Multiphase Materials

   Static and kinetic aspects of the phase behavior of polymer blends are
   the primary research areas of this group.

   bullet Constitutive Relationship of Polymer Blends for Process Modeling
          needs
   Develop techniques and methodologies to define and characterize
   necessary rheological, morphological, and interfacial properties for
   multi- phase polymer blends as a function of temperature, pressure,
   shear rate, composition, phase miscibility, and crystalline structure
   growth, and then to form a constitutive relationship of these data
   either as a data base and/ or a closed functional form for process
   modeling needs. Polyolefin blends from industrial collaborators will be
   used for the initial study, other polymers with specific interactions
   such as polymer- polymer and polymer- nanofiller interactions will also
   be studied.
   bullet Characterization and Modeling of the Interfaces and Interphases
          of Polymeric Systems
   Develop a computer modeling program, with the polymer blend
   constitutive relations as input, for interface and interphase
   characterization and prediction for the need of multi- phase polymer
   processing and coating, with emphasis on the surface and interphase
   layer structure formation and characterization. This project will be a
   part of a NIST- industry consortium on "Characterization and Modeling
   of Interfaces and Interphases of Polymeric Materials and Systems".
   bullet Synergistic Interactions of Polymers with High Surface Area
          Nanofillers
   Develop measurements techniques for characterizing the synergistic
   interactions between polymers and high surface area nanofillers such as
   nanocomposites and processing methodologies for dispersion. Develop
   theory and simulations to demonstrate how filler particles alter the
   glass transition and relaxation dynamics of polymers in confined
   geometry.
   bullet Structure- Property Characterization and Modeling
   Polymer based materials are in great demand for structural or
   semi-structural applications because they are light, easily process
   into complex shapes, and resistance to corrosion. To meet the load
   demands in structural parts, polymers are generally reinforced with
   fibers (composites) or toughened with additives (blends). The
   properties of these materials depend on the microstructure that is
   present, but the current technology is not always adequate to measure
   or predict the properties in systems with complex microstructures. The
   goal in this project is to develop test methods, reference data, and
   predictive models for such advanced polymeric material by understanding
   the role of microstructure in performance. This technology will enable
   fabricators and users of these materials in US industry to develop
   superior products for applications in transportation, infrastructure,
   aerospace, and off-shore oil exploration.
   bullet Mechanics of Fiber and Nano- filled Composites
   Determine the energy dissipation mechanisms that govern the initiation
   and propagation of damage in composites. Effects of fiber- matrix and
   fiber- fiber interactions on damage propagation, and also effects of
   nano- filler distribution and possible phase separation in a polymer
   matrix on the mechanical and failure properties will be measured.
   Fundamental understanding will be pursued and used for further
   development of predictive models for materials

   More information on Multiphase Materials group


Processing Characterization

   Measurement technologies and representative data for new types of
   polymer composites and manufacturing technologies are developed by this
   group.

   bullet Control of Extrusion Instabilities
   Polymeric materials have become ubiquitous in the modern economy
   because they are comparatively easy to process. Numerous large-scale
   polymer forming operations such as sheet-formation, blow molding, and
   wire coating take advantage of the ability to shape molten polymer at
   high speed. However, polymeric materials frequently exhibit complex,
   and sometimes catastrophic responses to the deformations that are
   imposed on them. These instabilities limit the rates at which the
   materials can be processed. In this project we seek new measurement
   technologies to understand and control processing instabilities.
   bullet Microscale Processing
   Micro-scale processing is an emerging technology with applications in
   the optical, medical and microfluidics "tab-on-chip" industries.
   However, many concepts developed for macroscopic processing break down
   in this regime. The goal of this work is to advance the technology
   infrastructure to support the growth of these industries.
   bullet Process Monitoring
   Develop and apply NIST technology for in-line measurement of critical
   parameters during polymer processing with special focus on temperature
   measurement, molecular orientation, composition, and dispersion.
   Develop instrumentation and real-time sensors based on optical,
   dielectrics and ultrasonics methods. Provide industry with temperature
   correction data necessary for proper interpretation of ASTM capillary
   rheology measurements. Develop portable on-line measurement instruments
   to facilitate technology transfer to industry. More details on in-situ
   temperature measurement

   More information on Processing Characterization group


Multivariant Measurement Methods

   Research efforts are centered on the mechanical and fluid properties of
   plastics and rubber.

   bullet Combinatorial Studies of Polymer Wettability
   We demonstrate the use of combinatorial methods for studying dewetting
   of thin hydrophobic polystyrene (PS) and hydrophilic poly d-lacticacid
   (PDLA) films on chemically modified gradient energy surfaces. Substrate
   libraries were prepared by immersing Si-H (passivated Si) in Piranha
   solution (H2SO4/H2O2/H2O) at a controlled rate giving a systematic
   variation of solvent (water and diiodo methane) contact angles across
   the surface. Additionally, chlorosilane SAMs on Si surfaces were
   exposed to UV radiation such that a range from hydrophobic to
   hydrophilic was obtained across the surface. Libraries of thin films of
   PS or PDLA coatings on gradient energy surfaces orthogonal to gradients
   in film thickness were screened for dewetting behavior using automated
   optical microscopy. Contrasting trends in the wettability of PS and
   PDLA were visibly apparent as a function of surface energy of the
   substrate. The number density of polygons of the dewet films was found
   to obey a power law relationship with both film thickness and substrate
   surface hydrophilicity as characterized by contact angle studies. The
   effect on dewetting morphology with molecular weight (above and below
   entanglement) will be discussed.
   bullet High-Throughput Investigation of Polymer Crystallization
   Develop methods for assessing crystallization, nucleation, and the
   effects of polymer crystal structure and morphology by high throughput
   and combinatorial methods. Investigate the crystallization of various
   polymers as well as nucleating effects of nanofillers such as clays on
   semicrystalline- amorphous polymer blend systems.
   bullet Anisotropic Adhesion between Polymers, Metals, Ceramics, and
   Biomaterials
   Develop combinatorial methods for measuring debonding at the polymer
   interface and micro- optical methods for quantifying adhesion at the
   interface between polymers and metals. Develop applications to thin
   films used as interlevel dielectrics, materials containing tack,
   fillers and blocky adhesion promoters, and polymers with biomaterials
   and soft-tissue.
   bullet Combinatorial Characterization of Surface Pattern Formation and
   Ordering In Block Copolymers
   High-throughput techniques are utilized to investigate the ordering of
   thin films of symmetric diblock copolymers. Phenomena investigated
   include the formation of surface patterns on the thin films, the effect
   of substrate surface energy on this pattern formation and the kinetics
   of the pattern formation and evolution. Understanding this ordering
   allows determination of basic thermodynamic properties of the block
   copolymer materials.
   bullet Nanomechanical Strengthening and Stabilization of Polymer
   Coatings
   Determine efficiency of UV, chemical cross- linkers, nanofillers, and
   compatibilizers on nanomechanical strength and phase- stability of
   multiphase polymer films. Develop on- line methods to assay effects of
   above process variables combinatorially in conjunction with gradients
   in substrate properties including hydrophobicity, roughness and
   chemical patterning via wet surface chemistry.
   bullet Combinatorial Methods for Biocompatibility of Functionalized
   Polymers
   Evaluate biocompatibility of surfaces with gradient charge density,
   hydrophilicity and amphiliphilic blocks incorporated in polymeric
   scaffolds, hydrogels, phase separated blends and patterned dewet
   polymer films. Protein adsorption, cell growth and proliferation and
   stability of structures to hydrolysis over range of pH found in
   biological systems are measures of biocompatibility. Develop total
   internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRF) to assess focal cell
   contacts.

   More information on Multivariant Measurement Methods group


   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division

   Related information
   bullet Research Area
   bullet Annual Reports
