http://www.hcqualitycommission.gov/press/cbor.html

    President's Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in
                          the Health Care Industry

                  President's Advisory Commission Releases
                Consumer Bill of Rights and Responsibilities

   November 20, 1997
   Contact:
   Chip Malin or Richard Sorian
   (202) 205-3333

   A Presidential Advisory Commission today released a proposed Consumer
   Bill of Rights and Responsibilities in health care. In a report to
   President Clinton, the Commission said, "American consumers and their
   families are experiencing an historic transition of the U.S. system of
   health care financing and delivery."

   The Commission states that a Consumer Bill of Rights and
   Responsibilities "can help to establish a stronger relationship of
   trust among consumers, health care professionals, health care
   institutions, and health plans by helping to sort out the
   responsibilities of each of these participants in a system that
   promotes quality improvement."

   The Consumer Bill of Rights has three goals:

     * To strengthen consumer confidence by assuring the health care
       system is fair and responsive to consumers' needs, provides
       consumers with credible and effective mechanisms to address their
       concerns, and encourages consumers to take an active role in
       improving and assuring their health.
     * To reaffirm the importance of a strong relationship between
       patients and their health care professionals.
     * To reaffirm the critical role consumers play in safeguarding their
       own health by establishing both rights and responsibilities for all
       participants in improving health status.

   President Clinton created the Advisory Commission on Consumer
   Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry on March 26, 1997,
   and charged it with "recommend[ing] such measures as may be necessary
   to promote and assure health care quality and value and protect
   consumers and workers in the health care system." As part of that
   charge, the President asked the Commission to develop a "Consumer Bill
   of Rights" in health care.

   Co-Chaired by Secretary of Labor Alexis M. Herman and Secretary of
   Health and Human Services Donna E. Shalala, the Commission has 34
   members, including broad-based representation from consumers,
   businesses, labor, health care providers, health plans, and health care
   quality and financing experts. Commission members have vast expertise
   on a wide range of health issues, including the special challenges
   facing rural and urban communities, children, women, older Americans,
   minorities, and people living with mental and physical disabilities.

   In developing the Consumer Bill of Rights and Responsibilities, the
   Commission established a Subcommittee on Consumer Rights, Protections,
   and Responsibilities, which held a series of six public hearings in
   Washington, D.C., Burlington, Vermont, and Chicago, Illinois. The
   Subcommittee and the Commission heard public testimony from nearly
   three dozen expert witnesses and considered consumer protection
   proposals by nearly two dozen national and regional organizations.

   The Commission also is working on a final, comprehensive report on
   creating a quality improvement framework for the health care industry.
   That report is due to President Clinton by March 30, 1998.

   Free copies of the Consumer Bill of Rights and Responsibilities are
   available on the World Wide Web from the Commission's Website
   (www.hcqualitycommission.gov). To obtain a free printed copy of the
   report, call 1/800/732-8200 or write to Consumer Bill of Rights, Box
   2429, Columbia, MD 21045-1429.

                                    # # #
     __________________________________________________________________

                Consumer Bill of Rights and Responsibilities

   Following is a summary of the President's Advisory Commission on
   Consumer Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry proposed
   Consumer Bill of Rights and Responsibilities:
     * Information Disclosure. Consumers have the right to receive
       accurate, easily understood information, and some consumers require
       assistance in making informed health care decisions about their
       health plans, professionals and facilities. Such information
       includes:
        Health plans. Covered benefits, cost-sharing, and procedures for
            resolving complaints; licensure, certification, and
            accreditation status; comparable measures of quality and
            consumer satisfaction; provider network composition; the
            procedures that govern access to specialists and emergency
            services; and care management information.
            Health professionals: Education, board certification and
            recertification; years of practice; experience performing
            certain procedures; and comparable measures of quality and
            consumer satisfaction.
            Health care facilities: Experience in performing certain
            procedures and services; accreditation status; comparable
            measures of quality and worker and consumer satisfaction; and
            procedures for resolving complaints.
            Consumer Assistance Programs: Programs must be carefully
            structured to promote consumer confidence and to work
            cooperatively with health plans, providers, payers, and
            regulators. Sponsorship that ensures accountability to the
            interests of consumers and stable, adequate funding are
            desirable characteristics of such programs.
     * Choice of Providers and Plans. Consumers have the right to a choice
       of health care providers that is sufficient to ensure access to
       appropriate high-quality health care. To ensure such choice, the
       Commission recommends the following:
        Provider Network Adequacy. All health plan networks should provide
            access to sufficient numbers and types of providers to assure
            that all covered services will be accessible without
            unreasonable delay -- including access to emergency services
            24 hours a day and 7 days a week. If a health plan has an
            insufficient number or type of providers to provide a covered
            benefit with the appropriate degree of specialization, the
            plan should ensure that the consumer obtains the benefit
            outside the network at no greater cost than if the benefit
            were obtained from participating providers.
            Women's Health Services. Women should be able to choose a
            qualified provider offered by a plan -- such as gynecologists,
            certified nurse midwives, and other qualified health care
            providers -- for the provision of covered care necessary to
            provide routine and preventative women's health care services.
            Access to Specialists. Consumers with complex or serious
            medical conditions who require frequent specialty care should
            have direct access to a qualified specialist of their choice
            within a plan's network of providers. Authorizations, when
            required, should be for an adequate number of direct access
            visits under an approved treatment plan.
            Transitional Care. Consumers who are undergoing a course of
            treatment for a chronic or disabling condition (or who are in
            the second or third trimester of a pregnancy) at the time they
            involuntarily change health plans or at a time when a provider
            is terminated by a plan for other than cause should be able to
            continue seeing their current specialty providers for up to 90
            days (or through completion of postpartum care) to allow for
            transition of care.
            Choice of Health Plans. Public and private group purchasers
            should, wherever feasible, offer consumers a choice of
            high-quality health insurance plans.
     * Access to Emergency Services. Consumers have the right to access
       emergency health care services when and where the need arises.
       Health plans should provide payment when a consumer presents to an
       emergency department with acute symptoms of sufficient severity --
       including severe pain -- such that a "prudent layperson" could
       reasonably expect the absence of medical attention to result in
       placing that consumer's health in serious jeopardy, serious
       impairment to bodily functions, or serious dysfunction of any
       bodily organ or part.
     * Participation in Treatment Decisions. Consumers have the right and
       responsibility to fully participate in all decisions related to
       their health care. Consumers who are unable to fully participate in
       treatment decisions have the right to be represented by parents,
       guardians, family members, or other conservators.
       Physicians and other health professionals should:
          + Provide patients with sufficient information and opportunity
            to decide among treatment options consistent with the informed
            consent process.
          + Discuss all treatment options with a patient in a culturally
            competent manner, including the option of no treatment at all.
          + Ensure that persons with disabilities have effective
            communications with members of the health system in making
            such decisions.
          + Discuss all current treatments a consumer may be undergoing.
          + Discuss all risks, benefits, and consequences to treatment or
            nontreatment.
          + Give patients the opportunity to refuse treatment and to
            express preferences about future treatment decisions.
          + Discuss the use of advance directives -- both living wills and
            durable powers of attorney for health care -- with patients
            and their designated family members.
          + Abide by the decisions made by their patients and/or their
            designated representatives consistent with the informed
            consent process.
       Health plans, providers, and facilities should:
          + Disclose to consumers factors -- such as methods of
            compensation, ownership of or interest in health care
            facilities, or matters of conscience -- that could influence
            advice or treatment decisions.
          + Assure that provider contracts do not contain any so-called
            "gag clauses" or other contractual mechanisms that restrict
            health care providers' ability to communicate with and advise
            patients about medically necessary treatment options.
          + Be prohibited from penalizing or seeking retribution against
            health care professionals or other health workers for
            advocating on behalf of their patients.
     * Respect and Nondiscrimination. Consumers have the right to
       considerate, respectful care from all members of the health care
       industry at all times and under all circumstances. An environment
       of mutual respect is essential to maintain a quality health care
       system. To assure that right, the Commission recommends the
       following:
          + Consumers must not be discriminated against in the delivery of
            health care services consistent with the benefits covered in
            their policy, or as required by law, based on race, ethnicity,
            national origin, religion, sex, age, mental or physical
            disability, sexual orientation, genetic information, or source
            of payment.
          + Consumers eligible for coverage under the terms and conditions
            of a health plan or program, or as required by law, must not
            be discriminated against in marketing and enrollment practices
            based on race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex, age,
            mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, genetic
            information, or source of payment.
     * Confidentiality of Health Information. Consumers have the right to
       communicate with health care providers in confidence and to have
       the confidentiality of their individually identifiable health care
       information protected. Consumers also have the right to review and
       copy their own medical records and request amendments to their
       records.
     * Complaints and Appeals. Consumers have the right to a fair and
       efficient process for resolving differences with their health
       plans, health care providers, and the institutions that serve them,
       including a rigorous system of internal review and an independent
       system of external review.
     * Consumer Responsibilities. In a health care system that protects
       consumers' rights, it is reasonable to expect and encourage
       consumers to assume reasonable responsibilities. Greater individual
       involvement by consumers in their care increases the likelihood of
       achieving the best outcomes and helps support a quality
       improvement, cost-conscious environment. Such responsibilities
       include:
          + Take responsibility for maximizing healthy habits, such as
            exercising, not smoking, and eating a healthy diet.
          + Work collaboratively with health care providers in developing
            and carrying out agreed-upon treatment plans.
          + Disclose relevant information and clearly communicate wants
            and needs.
          + Use the health plan's internal complaint and appeal processes
            to address concerns that may arise.
          + Avoid knowingly spreading disease.
          + Recognize the reality of risks and limits of the science of
            medical care and the human fallibility of the health care
            professional.
          + Be aware of a health care provider's obligation to be
            reasonably efficient and equitable in providing care to other
            patients and the community.
          + Become knowledgeable about their health plan coverage and
            health plan options (when available) including all covered
            benefits, limitations, and exclusions, rules regarding use of
            network providers, coverage and referral rules, appropriate
            processes to secure additional information, and the process to
            appeal coverage decisions.
          + Show respect for other patients and health workers.
          + Make a good-faith effort to meet financial obligations.
          + Abide by administrative and operational procedures of health
            plans, health care providers, and Government health benefit
            programs.
          + Report wrongdoing and fraud to appropriate resources or legal
            authorities.

   Free copies of the full report to the President on the Consumer Bill of
   Rights and Responsibilities are available on the World Wide Web at the
   White House Website (www.whitehouse.gov) or from the Commission's
   Website (www.hcqualitycommission.gov). To obtain a printed copy of the
   report, call 1/800/732-8200 or write to Consumer Bill of Rights, Box
   2429, Columbia, MD 21045-1429.

                                    # # #

                               U.S. eagle seal
      [ About the Commission | Charter | Commission Membership | Press
                            Releases | Meetings ]


    Last Revised: Saturday, July 18, 1998
