http://www.dcb.uscourts.gov/forms.htm

                                   banner
    333 Constitution Ave., N.W. Room 4400    Washington, D.C.  20001
                             202-273-0042


   Click here to logon to WebPACER

                                                           Forms & Publications

   Bankruptcy Basics  [forms.14.gif] ) Fee Schedule
   Mailing Matrix                      New Adversary Case Forms
   Official Bankruptcy Case Forms      Local Official Forms
   Miscellaneous Forms                 Roster of Public Agencies

                                   Notice

   All of the bankruptcy forms below require the Adobe Acrobat Reader
   which can be downloaded from the Adobe Website at (www.adobe.com). They
   are all in PDF format which provides the best method of printing these
   forms.  While most of the forms can be filled and printed on-line, some
   forms are for printing only.

                          Mailing Matrix Guidelines

   Sample Matrix

                Coversheet

                          Amended Mailing Matrix

   The following is a list of guidelines and recommendations for creating
   a conforming mailing matrix.  Adhering to these guidelines will allow
   each matrix to conform to a standard that the PC scanner system can
   read and process with little editing. Reduced editing allows our staff
   to process the matrix more efficiently and accurately, thereby reducing
   unnecessary noticing.

   A mailing matrix must conform to the following guidelines:

   (1)A mailing matrix consists of eight or nine creditors per page with
   their complete addresses, clearly typed, left justified and centered in
   a single column down the middle of one side of an 8 ½" X 11" sheet of
   paper.

   (2)The mailing matrix must be typed on blank, white, 20 lb. paper. Do
   not use textured, onion skin, or colored paper. This will cause our
   scanner to misread information. The paper should not have any stray
   lines, staples, or holes.

   (3) A "List of Creditors Matrix" cover sheet should accompany each
   mailing matrix submitted. This cover sheet should not be attached or
   stapled to the mailing matrix. These pages should not be hole punched.

   (4) Creditor Matrix Lists must be typed in one of the following
   standard typefaces or font styles: Courier 10 pitch or 12 pitch on a
   word processor; Prestige Elite 12 pitch; Letter Gothic 10 pitch on a
   typewriter. To ensure the scanner can read the matrix, it must be
   printed from a laser quality printer or typewriter.

   (5) Each creditor’s address must be single-spaced. Triple-spaced
   between each address. A margin of at least one inch should appear at
   the top and bottom of each page.

   (6) Each creditor’s address must consist of no more than five total
   lines, including the creditor’s name, street address, city, state and
   zip code. No account numbers should be included on the matrix.

   (7) The city, state and zip code must all appear together on the final
   line of each creditor’s address. The zip code should never be dropped
   down to a separate line. No other lines of address information should
   appear after the city, state and zip code line.

   (8) Commas must be placed between the city and state in the address.

   (9) All state names must be abbreviated, in capital letters, as
   delineated by the United States Postal Service. Each state must have a
   two letter abbreviation code - No Period Following.

   (10) Creditor addresses should never be printed in all capital letters.
   The standardized English format is preferred; i.e. first letters of
   proper names are capitalized, all others are in lower case.

   (11) Do Not include the debtors’ or debtors’ attorney’s addresses on
   the mailing matrix as this information is added to the BANCAP system
   when the case is opened.

   (12) Do Not include any taxing authorities unless monies are owed. This
   information is mailed separately by the court.

   (13) Do Not two-hole punch or staple the mailing matrix. This will
   cause the scanner to misread the address.

   (14) The "Amended Matrix" should conform to all of the aforementioned
   guidelines, with one additional provision; in order to avoid needless
   duplication, the "Amended Matrix" must include only the creditors not
   appearing on the previously filed list or lists. Similarly, an amended
   matrix should include only the address or addresses actually being
   amended.

   Adherence to these guidelines will greatly enhance the speed and
   efficiency with which the Bankruptcy Court scans, edits, prints, and
   completes its noticing. On the reverse side of this page is an example
   of a Perfect Mailing Matrix.

   Matrix Example

     BankoPlus Insurance Corp.

     9956 MacAllister Road

     San Antonio, TX 78223


                             Miscellaneous Forms

   [forms.15.gif] You need Adobe Acrobat Reader to view these forms

   Writ of Attachment on a Judgment

   Subpoena for Rule 2004 Examination

   Certification of Judgment for Registration in Another District

   Summons to a Debtor in an Involuntary Case

   Motion to Release Unclaimed Funds

   Praecipe

   Notice to Consumer Debtor

   Request for Emergency Hearing

   Chapter 13 Plan (100%) & Notice of Deadline to Object to Confirmation

   Chapter 13 Plan (Variable rate)

   Chapter 13 Plan (100% + interest)

   ITS

   New Adversary Case forms

   Adversary Proceeding Cover Sheet
