http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/faqs/faq.html

   Jump to Page Content

   NOAA OR&R Home / Frequently-Asked Questions

   Frequently-Asked Questions (FAQs)

   Home Page

   Site Index

   About Us

   Oil Spill Aids

   Chemical Aids

   Coastal Chemicals

   For Kids

   Image Gallery

   Available Products

   Site Search

   Here are answers to questions that students, teachers, and others have
   asked us about topics related to our work.

   GENERAL QUESTIONS ABOUT OIL SPILLS
   Sources of spill information; precautions taken against spills; what's
   an oil spill; how fast oil spreads; spills in rivers; everyday spills
   compared to big ones; French-language information; oil spills and salt;
   oil seepage rates into soil.

   OIL SPILLS IN HISTORY
   The Exxon Valdez spill; other oil spills; where spills happen; tankers
   vs. other spill sources; the biggest oil spill; the first U.S. oil
   spill; getting information about a particular spill.

   RESPONDING TO OIL SPILLS
   Techniques and procedures; chemicals for cleanup; how long cleanup
   takes; how tools are being improved; high-pressure, hot-water washing;
   what's done for oiled animals; oiled whales; spills in rivers;
   preparing for a career in spill response; volunteering to help;
   reporting a spill; a spill in your neighborhood; household products and
   spill response.

   DISPERSANTS AND BIOREMEDIATION
   Dispersants vs. bioremediation agents; how dispersants affect
   degradation; dispersant toxicity; getting dispersants for a school
   project; dispersant vs. detergent; common dispersants and bioremedation
   agents.

   HOW OIL HARMS FISH AND WILDLIFE
   How oil affects plants and animals; which type of oil is worst; finding
   oiled wildlife photos; the worst-affected creatures; how fish are
   affected.

   SCIENCE FAIR PROJECT IDEAS
   Using NOAA's photos; oil cleanup; testing absorbents; more ideas.

   OUR WEBSITE
   What you can download; using our photos; requesting a link to or from
   our site; your privacy at this site.
   Revised: July 3, 2001
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
