http://www.boc.ca.gov/PWilliams.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   STAFF PROFILES

   PETE WILLIAMS, DEPUTY EXECUTIVE OFFICER, VICTIMS OF CRIME PROGRAM

   A veteran of 30 years and five state agencies in California State
   service, Pete Williams has a wide variety of administrative experiences
   and is devoted to transforming government into being truly responsively
   to the citizens of California. Pete has recognized expertise in
   analyzing and improving processes, getting results in a team setting,
   team leadership and facilitation, training, customer and employee
   survey, performance measurement, and organizational assessment
   techniques. His experience/accomplishments include:
     * At California State Parks, he endeavored to make DPR a leader in
       providing service to its visitors by working to improve Parks'
       strategic planning process, visitor surveys, and its widely
       recognized performance measurement system for park program
       outcomes.
     * Managed the General Services (DGS) training program to support
       improvement of service to customer agencies.
     * Served as Senior Examiner and Judge for the California Council for
       Quality and Service (CCQS) Awards programs and conducted
       organizational assessments using the Baldrige criteria.
     * Authored State Parks' award winning applications for the CCQS
       Eureka Award and the Capitol Region's 1999 Arthur Anderson Best
       Practices Award for Strategic Leadership.
     * Co-founded the New Century Express, a newsletter devoted to
       improving state government service; served as editor of the Park
       Dialogue, a State Parks publication.
     * Consulted with departmental managers, improvement teams, and field
       staff regarding quality leadership, process improvement techniques,
       data collection, and team problem solving. Facilitated teams of
       employees and managers to improve government operations and
       customer service.
     * Served as Personnel Manager for Boards and Commissions, providing
       human resources services for 22 independent Boards and Commissions.

   Pete is a graduate of UC Davis and holds a Certificate in Total Quality
   Management from American River College.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
