http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/WorkingtoServe.htm


   USAJobs Logo and link to home page
   Skip over navigation bar to content Link to the USAJobs Job Openings
   Email notification of Job Listings Link to Resume Builder Link to the
   Online Application Link to USAJobs Site Survey Link to USAJobs General
   Information Link to Contacting Us Link to the Privacy Act space holder
   The OPM Seal and link to OPM home page

    The United States Government Needs You!
    The U.S. Government is seeking American citizens to join the ranks of
   federal public servants. As the Army recruitment slogan used to say:
   "It's not just a jobit's an adventure."

   Indeed, this slogan is befitting the work performed by federal
   employees today. As you read this, federal employees are serving their
   fellow citizens by protecting the environment, ensuring the soundness
   of our national defense, working on cutting-edge research to find the
   cause of and cure for disease, and keeping our skies safe for us to
   travel, among many other things.

   Being a civil servant is a demanding, yet rewarding, job. For the
   federal government to be efficient and effective it needs the best and
   the brightest employees who want to serve their fellow countrymen and
   who are willing to share their knowledge, their skills, and their
   energy for the betterment of our nation. The contributions made by
   federal employees today, tomorrow, and in the future guarantee that
   America will remain the world leader and can successfully respond to
   the foreign and domestic challenges of the 21st century.

   Want proof that you will make a difference? Just ask the men and women
   who are scientists, engineers, cartographers and IT specialists who
   serve their country every day. They will tell you that their career in
   public service has been stimulating and professionally satisfying. They
   have enjoyed competitive salaries and know that in return for a career
   in public service a generous package of retirement and health benefits
   awaits. And that doesn't even touch on the "family-friendly" benefits
   that are available to federal employees.

   One of the most significant advantages of a career working for the
   federal government is that career training and development are part of
   the professional culture within the federal workforce and there are
   real opportunities for advancement.

   And then there's the satisfaction that comes from knowing that you are
   making a difference.

   The career opportunities available to you as a federal employee are
   endless. Once on board, the track you take and how far you want to go
   depends entirely upon you.

   To learn more about becoming a federal civil servant, please visit
   USAJOBS at www.usajobs.opm.gov.

   AS OF: 01-22-2002

   Job Openings | USAJOBS By Email | Resume Builder | Online Application |
                      Site Survey | General Information
