http://www.pdc.wa.gov/pdf/privacyinfo.pdf

   STATE OF WASHINGTON PUBLIC DISCLOSURE COMMISSION 711 Capitol Way Rm.
   206, PO Box 40908 * Olympia, Washington 98504-0908 * (360) 753-1111 *
   FAX (360) 753-1112 Toll Free 1-877-601-2828 * E-mail: pdc@pdc.wa.gov *
   Website: www.pdc.wa.gov PRIVACY NOTICE INFORMATION Thank you for
   visiting the Public Disclosure Commission website and reviewing our
   Privacy Notice. This notice addresses collection, use and security of,
   and access to information that may be shared through use of the Public
   Disclosure Commission website. This notice covers the following topics:
   o Information Collected and How it is Used o Personal Information and
   Choice o Public Disclosure o Access and Correction of Personal
   Information o Cookies o Security o Disclaimer o Contact Information
   Information Collected and How it is Used If you do nothing during your
   visit to the Public Disclosure Commission website but browse or
   download information, we automatically collect and store the following
   information about your visit: 1. The Internet Protocol Address and
   domain name used. The Internet Protocol address is a numerical
   identifier assigned either to your Internet service provider or
   directly to your computer. We use the Internet Protocol Address to
   direct Internet traffic to you; 2. The type of browser and operating
   system you used; 3. The date and time you visited this site; 4. The web
   pages or services you accessed at this site; and 5. The web site you
   visited prior to coming to this web site. 1 The information we
   automatically collect and store is used to improve the content of our
   web services and to help us understand how people are using our
   services. Our staff analyzes our website logs to continually improve
   the value of the materials available on our site. Our website logs are
   not personally identifiable, and we make no attempt to link them with
   the individuals that browse the Public Disclosure Commission website.
   If during your visit to the Public Disclosure Commission site you
   participate in a survey, send an e-mail or fill out an on-line form,
   the following additional information will be collected: 1. The e-mail
   address and contents of the e-mail; and 2. Information volunteered in
   response to a survey. 3. Information volunteered through an on-line
   form for any other purpose. The information collected is not limited to
   text characters and may include audio, video, and graphic information
   formats you send us. The information is retained in accordance with
   Chapter 40.14 RCW, Preservation and Destruction of Public Records. We
   use your e-mail to respond appropriately. This may be to respond to
   you, to address issues you identify, to further improve our web site,
   or to forward the e- mail to another agency for appropriate action.
   Survey and other on-line form information are used for the purpose
   designated. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change
   information on this service is strictly prohibited and may be
   punishable under the state Computer Trespass law (RCW 9A.52.110) and
   federal statutes, including the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986
   and the National Information Infrastructure Protection Act. Personal
   Information and Choice "Personal information" is information about a
   natural person that is readily identifiable to that specific
   individual. Personal information includes such things as an
   individual's name, address, and phone number. A domain name or Internet
   Protocol address is not considered personal information. 2 We collect
   no personal information about you unless you voluntarily participate in
   an activity that asks for information (i.e. sending an e-mail). If you
   choose not to participate in these activities, your choice will in no
   way effect your ability to use any other feature of the Public
   Disclosure Commission website. If personal information is requested on
   the web site or volunteered by the user, state law and the federal
   Privacy Act of 1974 may protect it. However, this information is a
   public record once you provide it, and may be subject to public
   inspection and copying if not protected by federal or state law. Users
   are cautioned that the collection of personal information requested
   from, or volunteered by children on-line or by e-mail will be treated
   the same as information given by an adult, and may be subject to public
   access. Public Disclosure In the State of Washington, laws exist to
   ensure that government is open and that the public has a right to
   access appropriate records and information possessed by state
   government. At the same time, there are exceptions to the public's
   right to access public records that serve various needs, including the
   privacy of individuals. Exceptions are provided by both state and
   federal laws. All information collected at this site becomes public
   records that may be subject to inspection and copying by the public,
   unless an exemption in law exists. RCW 42.17. 260(1) states that Each
   agency, in accordance with published rules, shall make available for
   public inspection and copying all public records, unless the record
   falls within the specific exemptions of subsection (6) of this section
   [RCW 42.17.260(6)], RCW 42.17.310, 42.17.315, or other statute which
   exempts or prohibits disclosure of specific information or records. To
   the extent required to prevent an unreasonable invasion of personal
   privacy interests protected by RCW 42.17.310 and 42.17.315, an agency
   shall delete identifying details in a manner consistent with RCW
   42.17.310 and 42.17.315 when it makes available or publishes any public
   record; however, in each case, the justification for the deletion shall
   be explained fully in writing. In the event of a conflict between this
   Privacy Notice and the Public Records Act or other law governing the
   disclosure of records, the Public Records Act or other applicable law
   will control. 3 In addition, information presented by the government on
   this web site is considered public information and may be distributed
   or copied. Use of lists of individuals or directory information
   provided on this site for commercial purposes is prohibited under RCW
   42.17.260(9). In the absence of a statutory definition of `commercial
   purposes', the Attorney General of Washington views the prohibition as
   being broad in its application, given that "(t)here is nothing
   contained in the Act that distinguishes between different types of
   commercial purposes." Moreover, in the opinion of the Attorney General,
   "(w)hile the statute clearly encompasses a commercial purpose which
   involves direct contact of the individual's named in a list, we do not
   believe the scope of the term `commercial purpose' is limited to
   situations in which individuals are directly contacted or personally
   affected." (AGO 1998 No. 2) Access and Correction of Personal
   Information You can review any personal information we collect about
   you. You may recommend changes to your personal information you believe
   in error by submitting a written request that credibly shows the error.
   If you believe that your personal information is being used for a
   purpose other than what was intended when submitted, you may contact
   us. In all cases, we will take reasonable steps to verify your identity
   before granting access or making corrections. See Contact Information
   section. Cookies To better serve our users we are now using "cookies"
   to customize your browsing experience with the Public Disclosure
   Commission website. Cookies are simple text files stored on your
   computer by your web browser. They provide a method of distinguishing
   among visitors to the Public Disclosure Commission website. Cookies
   created on your computer by using this web site do not contain
   personally identifying information and do not compromise your privacy
   or security. We use the cookie feature only to store a randomly
   generated identifying tag on your computer. You can refuse the cookie
   or delete the cookie file from your computer by using any of the widely
   available methods. Security 4 The Public Disclosure Commission has
   taken several steps to safeguard the integrity of its
   telecommunications and computing infrastructure, including but not
   limited to authentication, monitoring, auditing, and encryption.
   Security measures have been integrated into the design, implementation
   and day-to-day practices of the entire PDC operating environment as
   part of its continuing commitment to risk management. This information
   should not be construed in any way as giving business, legal, or other
   advice, or warranting as fail proof, the security of information
   provided via PDC supported web sites. Disclaimer The Public Disclosure
   Commission website has links to other web sites. When you link to
   another site, you are no longer on the Public Disclosure Commission
   website and this Privacy Notice will not apply. When you link to
   another web site, you are subject to the privacy policy of that new
   site. Neither the State of Washington, nor any agency, officer, or
   employee of the State of Washington warrants the accuracy, reliability
   or timeliness of any information published by this system, nor endorses
   any content, viewpoints, products, or services linked from this system,
   and shall not be held liable for any losses caused by reliance on the
   accuracy, reliability or timeliness of such information. Portions of
   such information may be incorrect or not current. Any person or entity
   that relies on any information obtained from this system does so at his
   or her own risk. Public Disclosure Commission Contact Information To
   access your personally identifiable information we collect, if any, or
   request correction of factual errors in your personally identifiable
   information, contact Doug Ellis at the Public Disclosure Commission at
   711 Capitol Way, Rm 206, PO Box 40908, Olympia, Washington 98504-0908
   or telephone (360) 753-1111, or e-mail dellis@pdc.wa.gov. To offer
   comments about the Public Disclosure Commission website, or about the
   information presented in this Privacy Notice, you can contact the
   Public Disclosure Commission: 5 Toll Free: 1-877-601-2828 By Fax: (360)
   753-1112 By Mail: Doug Ellis Public Disclosure Commission PO Box 40908
   Olympia, WA 98504-0908 By E-mail: dellis@pdc.wa.gov 6
