http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/math_part1_final.pdf

   Preliminary Mathematics Subject Matter Requirements Domain 1. Algebra
   Candidates demonstrate an understanding of the foundations of the
   algebra contained in the Mathematics Content Standards for California
   Public Schools as outlined in the Mathematics Framework for California
   Public Schools: Kindergarten Through Grade Twelve (1999) from an
   advanced standpoint. To ensure a rigorous view of algebra and its
   underlying structures, candidates must have a deep conceptual
   knowledge. They are skilled at symbolic reasoning and use algebraic
   skills and concepts to model a variety of problem- solving situations.
   They understand the power of mathematical abstraction and symbolism.
   1.1 Algebraic Structures a. Show that the real and complex numbers are
   each a field, and explain why particular rings are not fields (e.g.,
   polynomial and matrix rings, modular systems) b. Apply field properties
   in constructing mathematical arguments (e.g., if a < b and c < 0, then
   ac > bc) c. Know that the rational numbers and real numbers are ordered
   fields and that the complex numbers are not an ordered field, but that
   they are the algebraic closure of the real numbers 1.2 Polynomial
   Equations and Inequalities a. Know why graphs of linear inequalities
   are half planes and apply this fact to linear programming b. Prove and
   use the following: ! The Rational Root Theorem for polynomials with
   integer coefficients ! The Factor Theorem ! The Conjugate Roots Theorem
   for polynomial equations with real coefficients ! The Quadratic Formula
   for real and complex quadratic polynomials ! The Binomial Theorem c.
   Analyze and solve polynomial equations with real coefficients using: !
   Descartes' rule of signs ! The Fundamental Theorem of Algebra ! The
   Roots of Unity (the roots of xn = 1 are points on the unit circle and
   they form the vertices of a regular n-sided polygon) d. Know that cubic
   and quartic polynomial equations are solvable by radicals, but that
   polynomial equations of degree 5 or higher are not 1.3 Functions a.
   Analyze and prove general properties of functions (i.e., domain and
   range, one- to-one, onto, inverses, composition, and differences
   between relations and functions) b. Analyze properties of polynomial,
   rational, radical, and absolute value functions in a variety of ways
   (e.g., graphing, solving problems) Mathematics, Part I 1 c. Analyze
   properties of exponential and logarithmic functions in a variety of
   ways (e.g., graphing, solving problems) 1.4 Linear Algebra a.
   Understand and apply the geometric interpretation and basic operations
   of vectors in two or three dimensions, including their scalar multiples
   and scalar (dot) and cross products b. Prove the basic properties of
   vectors described in 1.4a c. Understand, apply, and prove the basic
   properties and operations of matrices and determinants (e.g., the
   solvability of linear systems of equations) Domain 2. Geometry
   Candidates demonstrate an understanding of the foundations of the
   geometry contained in the Mathematics Content Standards for California
   Public Schools as outlined in the Mathematics Framework for California
   Public Schools: Kindergarten Through Grade Twelve (1999) from an
   advanced standpoint. To ensure a rigorous view of geometry and its
   underlying structures, candidates must have a deep conceptual
   knowledge. They demonstrate an understanding of axiomatic systems and
   different forms of logical arguments. Candidates understand, apply, and
   prove theorems relating to a variety of topics in two- and
   three-dimensional geometry, including coordinate, synthetic, non-
   Euclidean, and transformational geometry. 2.1 Parallelism a. Know the
   Parallel Postulate and its implications, and justify its equivalents
   (e.g., the Alternate Interior Angle Theorem, the angle sum of every
   triangle is 180 degrees) b. Know that simple variants of the Parallel
   Postulate produce two different non- Euclidean geometries (i.e.,
   spherical and hyperbolic) 2.2 Plane Euclidean Geometry a. Prove
   theorems and solve problems involving similarity and congruence b.
   Understand, apply, and justify properties of triangles (e.g., the
   Exterior Angle Theorem, concurrence theorems, trigonometric ratios,
   Triangle Inequality, Law of Sines, Law of Cosines, the Pythagorean
   Theorem and its converse) c. Understand, apply, and justify properties
   of polygons and circles from an advanced standpoint (e.g., derive the
   area formulas for regular polygons and circles from the area of a
   triangle) d. Justify and perform the classical constructions (e.g.,
   angle bisector, perpendicular bisector, replicating shapes, regular
   n-gons for n equal to 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8) e. Use techniques in
   coordinate geometry to prove geometric theorems (e.g., deduce
   properties of conic sections from their equations) 2.3
   Three-Dimensional Geometry a. Prove and use parallelism and
   perpendicularity of lines and planes in three dimensions Mathematics,
   Part I 2 b. Understand, apply, and justify properties of
   three-dimensional objects from an advanced standpoint (e.g., derive the
   volume and surface area formulas for prisms, pyramids, cones,
   cylinders, and spheres) c. Understand and verify Euler's formula for
   polyhedra 2.4 Transformational Geometry a. Understand and prove basic
   properties of isometries in two- and three- dimensional space (e.g.,
   isometries form a group under composition, every isometry is a
   composition of reflections) b. Understand and prove the basic
   properties of dilations Domain 3. Number Theory Candidates demonstrate
   an understanding of the number theory and a command of the number sense
   contained in the Mathematics Content Standards for California Public
   Schools as outlined in the Mathematics Framework for California Public
   Schools: Kindergarten Through Grade Twelve (1999) from an advanced
   standpoint. To ensure a rigorous view of number theory and its
   underlying structures, candidates must have a deep conceptual
   knowledge. They prove and use properties of natural numbers. They prove
   results and solve problems in modular systems. They formulate
   conjectures about the natural numbers using inductive reasoning, and
   verify conjectures with proofs. 3.1 Natural Numbers a. Prove and use
   basic properties of natural numbers (e.g., properties of divisibility)
   b. Use the Principle of Mathematical Induction to prove results in
   number theory c. Prove and use the Euclidean Algorithm d. Apply the
   Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic (e.g., find the greatest common
   factor and the least common multiple, show that every fraction is
   equivalent to a unique fraction where the numerator and denominator are
   relatively prime, prove that the square root of any number, not a
   perfect square number, is irrational) 3.2 Modular Systems a. Prove
   basic results about congruence modulo n b. Compute and solve problems
   in modular systems (e.g., ISBN, UPC, check digits, the Chinese
   Remainder Theorem) c. Solve and apply linear Diophantine equations
   Domain 4. Probability and Statistics Candidates demonstrate an
   understanding of the statistics and probability distributions for
   advanced placement statistics contained in the Mathematics Content
   Standards for California Public Schools as outlined in the Mathematics
   Framework for California Public Schools: Kindergarten Through Grade
   Twelve (1999) from an advanced standpoint. To ensure a rigorous view of
   probability and statistics and its underlying structures, candidates
   must have a deep conceptual knowledge. They solve problems and make
   inferences using statistics and probability distributions. Mathematics,
   Part I 3 4.1 Probability a. Prove and apply basic principles of
   permutations and combinations b. Illustrate finite probability using a
   variety of examples and models (e.g., the fundamental counting
   principles) c. Use and explain the concept of conditional probability
   d. Interpret the probability of an outcome (e.g., the area of the
   region under the graph of the probability density function of a
   continuous random variable) e. Use normal, binomial, and exponential
   distributions to solve and interpret probability problems 4.2
   Statistics a. Compute and interpret the mean, median, and mode of both
   discrete and continuous distributions b. Compute and interpret
   quartiles, range, variance, and standard deviation of both discrete and
   continuous distributions c. Select and evaluate sampling methods
   appropriate to a task (e.g., random, systematic, cluster, convenience
   sampling) and display the results d. Prove the method of least squares
   and apply it to linear regression and correlation e. Know and apply the
   chi-square test Domain 5. Calculus Candidates demonstrate an
   understanding of the trigonometry and calculus contained in the
   Mathematics Content Standards for California Public Schools as outlined
   in the Mathematics Framework for California Public Schools:
   Kindergarten Through Grade Twelve (1999) from an advanced standpoint.
   To ensure a rigorous view of trigonometry and calculus and their
   underlying structures, candidates must have a deep conceptual
   knowledge. They apply the concepts of trigonometry and calculus to
   solving problems in real-world situations. 5.1 Trigonometry a. Prove
   that the Pythagorean Theorem is equivalent to the trigonometric
   identity sin2x + cos2x = 1 and that this identity leads to 1 + tan2x =
   sec2x and 1 + cot2x = csc2x b. Prove the sine, cosine, and tangent sum
   formulas for all real values, and derive special applications of the
   sum formulas (e.g., double angle, half angle) c. Analyze properties of
   trigonometric functions in a variety of ways (e.g., graphing and
   solving problems) d. Analyze properties of inverse trigonometric
   functions (i.e., arcsin, arcos, and arctan) in a variety of ways (e.g.,
   graphing and solving problems). e. Understand and apply polar
   representations of complex numbers (e.g., DeMoivre's Theorem)
   Mathematics, Part I 4 5.2 Limits and Continuity a. Derive basic
   properties of limits and continuity, including the Sum, Difference,
   Product, Constant Multiple, and Quotient Rules, using the formal
   definition of a limit b. Show that a given function is continuous at a
   point, and distinguish between removable and non-removable
   discontinuities c. Know and apply the Intermediate Value Theorem, using
   the geometric implications of continuity 5.3 Derivatives and
   Applications a. Derive the rules of differentiation for algebraic,
   trigonometric, inverse trigonometric, logarithmic, and exponential
   functions using the formal definition of derivative b. Interpret the
   concept of derivative geometrically, numerically, and analytically
   (i.e., slope of the tangent, limit of difference quotients, extrema,
   Newton's method, and instantaneous rate of change) c. Interpret
   continuous, differentiable functions geometrically and analytically and
   apply Rolle's Theorem, the Mean Value Theorem, and L'Hopital's rule d.
   Use the derivative to solve rectilinear motion, related rate, and
   optimization problems e. Use the derivative to analyze functions and
   planar curves in rectangular and parametric form f. Solve separable
   first-order differential equations and apply them to growth and decay
   problems g. Know and apply the concept of a partial derivative 5.4
   Integrals and Applications a. Derive definite integrals of standard
   algebraic functions using the formal definition of integral b.
   Interpret the concept of a definite integral geometrically,
   numerically, and analytically (e.g., limit of Riemann sums, improper
   integrals) c. Prove the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, and use it to
   interpret integrals as antiderivatives d. Apply the concept of
   integrals to compute the length of curves and the areas and volumes of
   geometric figures e. Know and apply the concept of multiple integrals
   5.5 Sequences and Series a. Derive and apply the formulas for the sums
   of finite arithmetic series and finite and infinite geometric series
   (e.g., express repeating decimals as a rational number) b. Use Ratio,
   Comparison, and Integral Tests to test convergence on infinite series
   (e.g., show that a series may be divergent even if the n-th term goes
   to zero, find the interval of convergence by Ratio Test) c. Derive and
   apply Taylor series and Taylor polynomials of basic functions (e.g.,
   binomial series) Mathematics, Part I 5 Domain 6. History of Mathematics
   Candidates understand the chronological and topical development of
   mathematics and the contributions of historical figures of various
   times and cultures. Candidates know important mathematical discoveries
   and their impact on human society and thought. These discoveries form a
   historical context for the content contained in the Mathematics Content
   Standards for California Public Schools as outlined in the Mathematics
   Framework for California Public Schools: Kindergarten Through Grade
   Twelve (1999) (e.g., numeration systems, algebra, geometry, calculus).
   6.1 Chronological and Topical Development of Mathematics a. Demonstrate
   understanding of the development of mathematics, its cultural
   connections, and its contributions to society b. Demonstrate
   understanding of the historical development of mathematics, including
   the contributions of diverse populations as determined by race,
   ethnicity, culture, geography, and gender Mathematics, Part I 6
