http://www.usfa.fema.gov/safety/campus/

   USFA Seal Blank Image Fire Safety Banner Image


                             Campus Fire Safety
                Navigation Menu Link    About this Project
                Navigation Menu Link Incident Investigations
                Navigation Menu Link  Information Bulletins
                Navigation Menu Link       Lesson Plans
                Navigation Menu Link          Links
                Navigation Menu Link        Live Burn
                Navigation Menu Link      Photo Library
                Navigation Menu Link Powerpoint Presentations
                Navigation Menu Link   Promotional Material
                Navigation Menu Link        Resources
                Navigation Menu Link         Studies
                Navigation Menu Link         Credits
                Navigation Menu Link   Contact Information

                                Fire Safety


                 Living with Fire Campus Fire Safety Banner

LIVING WITH FIRE:
A PROGRAM FOR CAMPUS AND STUDENT FIRE SAFETY

   Campus fire safety is a serious concern. According to NFPA
   International, over 1,700 fires a year occur in dormitories and Greek
   housing, causing $2.8 million in damage per year. Tragic fires at Seton
   Hall, Chapel Hill, Bloomsburg, Millikin and other universities have
   brought a new level of awareness to the importance of fire safety in
   student housing.

   Along with residence halls and Greek housing, however, another area of
   significant concern is the students living off-campus in houses and
   apartments.  The U.S. Department of Education estimates that 2/3 of the
   students enrolled full-time in four-year institutions live off-campus.
   Based on information compiled by Campus Firewatch, in the eighteen
   month period from January 2000 to July 2001, seventeen students were
   killed in off-campus fires.

   Living With Fire was developed to provide campus fire safety
   professionals with material that is targeted at students. This was one
   of the recommendations of the groundbreaking Campus Firesafety Forum I,
   and was reinforced during Forum II in 2000.

   The material on this website is a "toolbox" that fire safety educators
   can use in assembling their own programs. Some of it is new, created
   solely for this project. Other material was contributed by campus fire
   safety professionals in an effort to share what works for them with
   their peers across the country. This material is in the public domain
   and can be used freely.

   The material on this site was developed with the assistance of a number
   of people from diverse backgrounds. The idea was to get as much varied
   information as possible in one site. Funding for this project was
   provided by a consortium of seven organizations committed to reducing
   the tragic loss of life and property on our nation's campuses.

   The reader must make his or her own judgment regarding the
   applicability of the material provided on this site. Your local
   conditions may call for different applications or use of the content
   provided here. This information is provided without warranty, and the
   end user is solely responsible for all actions resulting from the use
   of this material.

   If you have any suggestions, comments or questions, please contact us.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: October 31, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
