http://www.epa.gov/adminweb/admin-message.htm

   Skip common site navigation and headers
   United States Environmental Protection Agency
   Office of the Administrator

      Contact Us | Print Version Search: __________ Search

   Begin Hierarchical Links EPA Home > Office of the Administrator >
   Message From the Administrator End Hierarchical Links



   Programs
   Functions
   Offices
   Biography
   Speeches & Testimony
   Agency News
   EPA Home


Message From the Administrator


                             Photograph of Christie Whitman, Administrator

                                   Biography

   Message from the Administrator

   My Fellow Americans and Visitors from Around the World:

   For more than thirty years, the mission of the U.S. Environmental
   Protection Agency has been to protect human health and safeguard our
   environment. It is a mission that the more than 18,000 employees at the
   EPA take very seriously and are working hard each day to achieve. EPA's
   mission is broad and complex, reaching into many facets of American
   life.

   But while our mission is complex, our goal is simple: to make our air
   cleaner, our water purer, and our land better protected. Many people
   are surprised to learn that the condition of America's environment has
   actually improved significantly over the past 30 years -- and is still
   getting better. Much work remains to be done, however, and the path to
   continued environmental improvements will require a new emphasis on
   partnerships. Some of the most creative solutions to our problems are
   generated at the local level by citizens, businesses, state and local
   governments, and other interested organizations, and we all need to
   work together to achieve the next generation of environmental progress.

   This Web site is a great way to learn more about EPA and how you can
   contribute to our mission of protecting the environment and the public
   from environmental hazards. Whether you are here to browse, to find a
   specific piece of information, or to learn how you can get involved in
   your community -- I hope that you find the site helpful and encourage
   you to use it to become an even better steward of the environment.

   We have all been entrusted with the stewardship of this shared planet,
   and it is our responsibility to leave it cleaner for our children and
   grandchildren. As long as we work together and stay firmly focused on
   our goals, I am confident we will make America's environment even
   cleaner than it is today.

   Christie Whitman
   Administrator
   United States Environmental Protection Agency

   Biography of Administrator Christie Whitman. En Español

   More information about the Office of the Administrator is available.



                   Begin Site Footer

   EPA Home | Privacy and Security Notice | Contact Us
