http://sfbay.wr.usgs.gov/access/access_about.html

   [Link to USGS home page]

   The vast San Francisco Bay and Delta region of California is located at
   the confluence of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers. It is often
   referred to as the San Francisco Bay estuary. Since the discovery of
   gold in the Sierra Nevada foothills in 1848, this region has undergone
   rapid, large-scale, and permanent changes driven by population
   migration attracted to the region's natural setting and economic
   opportunities. The consequent land use changes, particularly
   urbanization, have resulted in the loss of wetlands, alteration of
   freshwater inflows, contamination of water, sediments and biota, and
   declines of fish and wildlife species.

   The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) has maintained a broad program of
   multi-disciplinary research studies, both fundamental and applied, in
   the San Francisco Bay estuary and its watershed. The studies help us
   understand the extent and impact of these changes, as they also help
   decision-makers use science to help mitigate adverse effects. USGS
   studies often are conducted in cooperation with other Federal, State,
   and local agencies, and have been designed to increase our
   understanding of important issues. These issues include waste disposal,
   water flow management, harbor/channel dredging, wetland restoration,
   food web processes, exotic species impacts, natural hazards mitigation,
   and maintaining quality of life.

   "Access USGS--San Francisco Bay & Delta" was created to help
   disseminate this information via the World Wide Web. Here you will find
   examples of USGS publications, posters, maps, and other information on
   the San Francisco Bay & Delta region from many disciplines.

   Please click here to return to the home page, or use the links below to
   begin your search of this web site.

   Quick links:

   This web site by topic:

   "BARD" Web Site: Digital Maps

   What's New

   "Water Quality of SF Bay" Site

   Water Information

   Metals in the Environment

   Biology

   SFPORTS Real-Time Web Site

   Wetlands

   Real-Time Winds Web Site

   Hazards

   Publications

   Land Use

   USGS Search

   Digital Maps

   Real-Time Earthquakes Site

   Overview

   Geologic Mapping

   Outreach

   Other Links: SF Bay-related, outside the USGS

Current Highlight:

Influence of salinity, bottom topography, and tides on locations of estuarine
turbidity maxima in northern San Francisco Bay

D.H. Schoellhamer

   Time series of salinity and suspended-solids concentration measured at
   four locations and vertical profiles of salinity and suspended-solids
   concentration measured during 48 water-quality cruises from January
   1993 to September 1997 are analyzed to describe the influence of
   salinity, bottom topography, and tides on locations of estuarine
   turbidity maxima in northern San Francisco Bay, California. Read more
   about this article...

   [Northern SF Bay study area, MLLW]

   URL: http://sfbay.wr.usgs.gov/access/access_about.html

   Page maintainer: Laura Zink Torresan; Last modified: 18 October 2001
   For more information, please contact the Access USGS--San Francisco Bay
   and Delta Web Team

   USGS Privacy Statement  ||  Disclaimer  ||  Copyright
   information  ||  Accessibility
   [firstgov.gov: your first click to the U.S. Government]

   Site Meter
