http://aetd.gsfc.nasa.gov/partners/index.html


                                                 [dirlogo.gif] [aetd2.jpg]
        About Us technologies partnerships news centers Contacts and links


   What is an AETD Partnership?

   An AETD partnership is a dynamic collaboration among industry,
   academia, NASA, and other government organizations working toward a
   common goal. This partnership facilitates the transfer of expertise
   between contributors. This enables the participants to pool resources
   and accelerate advances in state-of-the-art guidance, navigation, and
   control solutions.
   What motivates partnerships?

   Organizations are often hindered by deficiencies in resources or skill
   sets. Partnerships provide an opportunity for the organizations to
   participate in cutting-edge projects that may otherwise be unrealized.

   Organizations may want to participate in collaborative projects to
   share expertise and information between specialists, allowing new work
   environments, management paradigms, and problem solving approaches to
   emerge.

   An AETD partnership also distributes responsibilities between
   organizations, which helps defray administrative costs, and staffing
   pressures that might otherwise be encountered.
   Partnership Benefits?

   The most important benefit from an AETD partnership is acceleration in
   technology development. Partnerships create opportunities to reach
   optimal solutions with collaborative organizations.

   Another benefit is the exchange of information among specialists, which
   stimulates and enhances their level of expertise, thereby contributing
   to the overall value of the organization.

   Pooling diverse resources results in greater productivity as well as
   time and cost savings.

   Finally, partnerships increase quality of products for consumer markets
   and create more opportunities for industry workers, civil servants, and
   students.


                                NASA Homepage

                  Responsible NASA Official: Kanitra Tyler
                       Last Revised: 09 December 2001
