http://www.cincinnati.feb.gov/feb/index.htm

                          feblogo.jpg (64207 bytes)


                 Greater Cincinnati Federal Executive Board

   Chair: Richard Ahearn, Regional Director, National Labor relations
   Board, Region 9

   Vice Chair: Mr. William Henderson, Director, Office of Administration
   and Resource Management, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

   Vice Chair: Ned Morrell, District Manager, Social Security
   Administration, Cincinnati North

   Executive Director: Donald P. Yost

   The Greater Cincinnati Federal Executive Board is a federal agency
   whose goals are:

                             Create Partnerships

   FEBs serve as the catalyst to create partnerships between agencies of
   the Federal Government.

   FEBs reach out to state and local governments to establish
   partnerships that share talents and resources.

   FEBs work with private enterprises, charities and organizations to
   support their efforts on behalf of all Americans.

                   Improve Intergovernmental Partnerships

   FEBs work to improve existing intergovernmental partnerships with the
   goal of increasing the efficiency of service provided to the American
   Taxpayer on all levels.

                   Advance Local and National Initiatives

   FEBs advance governmental initiatives that originate at the national
   level from the Executive and Legislative Branches as well as the
   initiatives developed by the Federal sector at the local level.

   The Greater Cincinnati Federal Executive Board has the following
   standing committees:

   Federal Management Committee

   Federal Safety and Health Council

   Cultural Diversity Committee

   Minority Business Opportunity Committee

   Public Service Recognition Committee


   History of the Federal Executive Board

   "The Federal Executive"

   We serve as a clearing house for inquiries when you do not know a
   specific agency to address your question to. We will be happy to field
   questions concerning the federal community in the Greater Cincinnati
   Area. If we cannot provide a direct answer, we will route your
   questions to the appropriate agency. Please confine your questions
   those of a factual nature as we cannot respond to "philosophical"
   questions.

   Need a speaker? Contact us with a specific topic and we will check with
   the appropriate agencies to see if a speaker is available. NOTE:
   Speakers are only available for educational activities. No speakers can
   be provided to any group with a political affiliation or agenda.
   Agencies reserve the right to determine the appropriateness of a
   speaker request.

   To contact us by:

   Phone: 513-684-2101

   U.S. Mail: Greater Cincinnati Federal Executive Board, Room 1116 John
   Weld Peck Federal Building, 550 Main Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45220

   E-mail

                       Other Federal Executive Boards
