http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/coral.html

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Assess Damage to Coral Reefs
   Project Chief:  Robert B. Halley
   Phone: 727-803-8747
   Email: rhalley@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
                                   Graphic of Coral Reef

   Hurricane Mitch had multiple and complex impacts on Honduran coral
   reefs. Some of these impacts were negative while others had positive
   effects on the Honduran reef ecosystems. All effects were compounded by
   continuing environmental stress on Bay Island Reefs from coral
   bleaching and overfishing. Managers of environmental preserves,
   government planners, as well as resort owners need data and
   interpretations in order to help them deal with the effects of
   Hurricane Mitch in the context of continuing environmental changes.
   Objectives
   Provide coral reef resource managers with descriptions of the processes
   that impacted reef ecosystems as a result of Hurricane Mitch, and the
   relative importance of these impacts.
   Establish monitoring protocols that can help put Mitch-related impacts
   in perspective.
   Provide training and technology transfer to enable Honduran
   counterparts to continue monitoring coral reef ecosystems after this
   project has ended.
   Approach
   USGS participants in this project will work closely with appropriate
   Honduran resource managers to train personnel, supply equipment, and
   collect data for coral reef resource management. They will also create
   and provide maps of selected reefs appropriate for reef resource
   evaluation. Finally, they will describe and evaluate the relative
   importance of Mitch-related impacts on coral reef ecosystems,
   particularly the hurricanes effect on water temperature, salinity, and
   turbidity. These three activities will provide the information needed
   by Honduran managers to make informed decisions concerning the sound
   development and utilization of coral reef resources.
   The focus of this project will be primarily on the coral reef reserve
   area of Cayos Cochinos, with secondary activities on Roatan. There are
   two reasons for this focus, beyond budgetary considerations. First,
   Cayos Cochinos was more heavily impacted by Hurricane Mitch, especially
   by runoff from the northern coast of Honduras, than the other Bay
   Islands. Second, there are several other groups gathering information
   for Roatan, Guanaja, and Utila that are perceived to have overlapping
   interests and can provide information to this project. In contrast, the
   USGS is the only group working with Honduran coastal resource managers
   in the Cayos Cochinos Reserve. Although most of the work will be
   conducted in Cayos Cochinos, some comparisons will be made to Roatan
   reefs, which suffered much less damage from the hurricane.
   Cooperating Agencies
   Honduras Coral Reef Fund: Dr. Adoni Cubas
   Roatan Institute of Marine Science: Jennifer Keck
   University of South Florida: Dr. Frank Mueller-Karger and Serge
   Andrefouet
   Global Vision International: Dr. Tanya Barnett
   Source Data
    1. Imagery:
          + SeaWiFS (USF)
          + Aerial Photography
          + Open-Skies Photography
          + Honduran: Aerofoto Centroamerica
          + INITEC: Spanish Consortium aerial photography
    2. NOAA Sea Surface Temperature website
    3. Anecdotal information obtained from previous researcher/long-time
       residents concerning conditions pre- and post- Hurricane Mitch.
    4. Hydrological information for coast rivers (i.e. discharge evaluated
       from gaging stations located along the northern coast of Honduras)
    5. NOAA charts and maps

   Products
    1. Provide monitoring instruments for future collection of salinity,
       temperature and light (PAR).
    2. Water quality data
    3. GIS Products
         a. Geo-rectified maps of Cayos Cochinos region
         b. Benthic habitat maps around Cayos
         c. Location of study site with accompanying data from instruments
    4. Photography

    a. Two complete years of surface water data and photo documentation of
       reefs
    b. Documentation of post-Hurricane Mitch

     Fact Sheet

     Detailed report with maps, data, photographs

     Clearinghouse website
   Locations

   [coralloc1.jpg] Map showing the location of Cayos Cochinos and Roatán,
   Honduras also known as the Bay Islands (in addition to Guanaja and
   Utila). Note Cayos Cochinos is located closer to the mainland and
   situated on the continental shelf, whereas Roatán is separated from the
   mainland by very deep water.

   click for a larger image Detailed image of Cayos Cochinos and Roatán,
   Honduras. Water depths are in meters (1 meter = 3.28 feet).

   click for a larger image Enlarged area of the Cayos Cochinos
   archipelago. The Cayos Cochinos Biological Research Station is located
   on Pequeño. The blue shading represents the shallow sand, seagrass, and
   coral environments. The two large islands, Pequeño and Grande, are
   comprised of metamorphic rocks whereas the other smaller islands are
   carbonate sand islands. The entire Cayos Cochinos archipelago falls
   within a marine reserve whereby certain activities are heavily
   regulated.

   click for a larger image Enlarged area of Roatán. Roatán is
   approximately 45 km (28 mi) long and 5 km (3 mi) wide. Roatán is
   comprised of metamorphic rocks similar to that of Cayos. A fringing
   coral reef protects the entire north and west shorelines. A marine
   reserve has been established only along the western coast.

   click for a larger image Aerial photograph (1:10,000) of Cayos Cochinos
   Pequeño. The laboratory can be seen along the southern coast of the
   island. The image is oriented with north to the top. Fringing coral
   reefs, shallow sand and grass flats, and other hardbottom areas
   supporting both hard and soft coral species surround Cayos Cochinos
   Pequeño.

   click for a larger image Aerial photograph of a sand cays and shallow
   hardbottom regions that contain sea grass, sand and coral rubble as
   well as live coral structures. The image is oriented with north to the
   top.

   Data
   No data available yet.
   Project Tour

   Thermographs Six thermographs (similar to the one circled) have been
   installed around Cochino Pequeno to record changes in the water
   temperature. These instruments will provide enough data to understand
   the temperature fluctuations from tidal to annual scales. Changes in
   temperature, light intensity, and salinity will be included in the
   post-Hurricane Mitch research concerning the vitality of the coral reef
   ecosystem.

   cochino.jpg - 4875 Bytes Cochino Pequeno (largest island in aerial
   photograph) and the smaller islands in the region are all surrounded by
   coral reefs in various stages of health. The Cayos Cochinos island
   chain (including Pequeno) is located nine miles off the northern coast
   of Honduras. Hurricane Mitch inundated this area of the Bay Islands
   with sediment, contamination, and fresh water from the mainland which
   may be responsible for some of the coral degradation.

   Graphic The marine resources of the Cayos Cochinos Marine Reserve
           experienced negative, as well as, positive effects as a result of
           Hurricane Mitch. Monitoring efforts and data interpretation will
           provide vital information to the Honduran resource managers and the
           general public on the impacts associated with Hurricane Mitch and to
           the continuing environmental changes.

   GPS USGS researchers collecting GPS locations on Cochino Pequeqo. GPS
       coordinates are collected at distinctive features on the island and
       positioned on an aerial photograph in order to rectify (i.e. flatten)
       the image. The rectified image is then formatted with GIS mapping
       capabilities. The resulting map will provide a database of terrestrial
       and marine resources for local managers and researchers.

   Post-Mitch SeaWiFS satellite imagery for November 14, 1998,
   approximately two weeks after Hurricane Mitch passed over northern
   Honduras. The red, yellow, and green colors along the coast depict
   turbidity concentration levels. Excessive rainfall from Mitch increased
   runoff on land and the rivers increased in the volume of water, amount
   of sediment, and quantity of debris in the river water.

   click for a larger image The shallow waters around Cochino Pequeño and
   the rest of the Bay Islands are ideal for coral reef development.
   However, strong storm and hurricane induced surges are responsible for
   destruction to coral reef environments which may have been the cause
   for this broken and overturned branching coral Acropora palmata.

   click for a larger image Two Sea-Bird data loggers were successfully
   installed on the shallow reef (6 m): one at Cayos Cochinos and the
   other at Roatán. These loggers will record temperature, salinity, and
   light (as photosynthetically active radiation; PAR). These instruments
   will assist in identifying variables that can affect the health of reef
   corals, such as upwelling events, and fresh-water input and increased
   sediment loading from the mainland.

   click for a larger image The aftermath of Hurricane Mitch on November
   1, 1998. This satellite image is courtesy of the SeaWiFS Project
   NASA/GSFC and ORBIMAGE. Data was collected at the University of South
   Florida. Note the turbid waters along the north coast of Honduras on
   account of the excessive runoff and high, fresh water river discharge
   (i.e. the Aguán River) as a result of the hurricane's elevated
   rainfall.

   click for a larger image Shallow coastal waters are inundated with
   elevated nutrient concentrations during periods of increased
   precipitation. Other factors contributing to eutrophic coastal waters
   are, but not limited to, poor land and river management, municipal and
   industrial pollution, urban sewage, agricultural chemicals, excavation
   and dredging. Algae proliferate in nutrient-rich waters and blanket the
   preexisting corals. Often times, the algae will out-compete the reef
   builders.

   click for a larger image Underwater digital video recordings and
   photography provide important tools for documenting the status of the
   coral reef ecosystem at a particular period of time. Time series
   archives of specific reefs assist researchers in documenting the
   decline or improvement of those reefs affected by major storms and
   hurricanes or other forms of environmental perturbations.

   click for a larger image Coinciding with the warm summer months is an
   increase in coral living tissue necrosis (disease). Some of the more
   prevalent diseases are black band (observed above), white band, yellow
   band, yellow blotch, white plague, and dark spot. An increase in
   run-off and contamination may be partly responsible for the high number
   of diseased coral heads observed the summer following Hurricane Mitch.

   Graphs

   click for a larger image Sea surface temperatures at Pelican Point reef
   located off the northwest tip of Cayos Cochinos Grande. There are two
   temperature loggers placed at this location, one is in 5-m (17-ft)
   water depth and the other is in 21-m (71-ft) water depth. It is
   apparent that deeper waters are cooler than shallower waters unless
   there are upwelling events. Possible examples of upwelling are
   overlapping data at the end of July and the beginning of August.

   click for a larger image Sea surface temperatures at Lions Head located
   off the northern most point of Cayos Cochinos Pequeño. There are two
   temperature loggers placed at this location, one is in 5-m (17-ft)
   water depth and the other is in 22-m (74-ft) water depth. Sea surface
   temperatures at Lions Head are similar to those observed at Pelican
   Point to the east.

   click for a larger image Shallow (<2 m; 6 ft) sea surface temperature
   at the research station dock on Cayos Cochinos Pequeño. This
   13-month-long record of temperature shows a warm ending to the summer
   of 1999, however not as warm as 1998, prior to Hurricane Mitch. The end
   of the 2000 summer was not as warm and looks as though it never reached
   higher than 30 oC (86 oF).

   click for a larger image Temperature data from a shallow (1.5 m; 5 ft)
   reef site near the research lab on Pequeño. Data is similar to that
   seen at the dock.

   click for a larger image Light data collected by a PAR sensor at Cayos
   Cochinos. PAR (photosynthetically active radiation) is a particular
   segment of visible light that plants (algae/sea grasses) use for
   photosynthesis. Light measurements also give indications as to how
   cloudy or turbid the waters might be during certain periods of time.
   The inset is an enlarged portion of the PAR record showing how light
   increases during the day and falls to zero at night.

   click for a larger image Light data collected by a PAR sensor at
   Roatán. PAR (photosynthetically active radiation) is a particular
   segment of visible light that plants (algae/sea grasses) use for
   photosynthesis. Light measurements also give indications as to how
   cloudy or turbid the waters might be during certain periods of time.
   The inset is an enlarged portion of the PAR record showing how light
   increases during the day and falls to zero at night.

   click for a larger image Surface salinity and temperature collected
   using a hand-held conductivity meter. Data were collected by a group of
   students conducting on going research within the Cayos Biological
   Reserve. It is obvious that when the rainy season begins, the surface
   salinity drops (approximately July 20th).

   click for a larger image Surface water salinity comparison between that
   collected by the students at the end of the dock (Cayos Pequeño) and
   the study site at Pelican Point (Cayos Grande). Water sampled at
   Pelican Point is from approximately 5-m (17-ft) water depth and that
   collected by the students was approximately 0.5-m (1.5-ft) water depth
   at the dock. The data correspond very well except that the surface
   salinity at the dock observed freshened water sooner than at the deeper
   site. However, the large pulses of fresher water are detected almost
   simultaneously during the second week of August 2000.

   click for a larger image Comparison of temperature data collected by
   the students at the research station dock (-0.5 m; 1.5 ft) and that
   collected at Pelican Point (-5 m; 17 ft). Both correspond extremely
   well in value and trend.

   click for a larger image Comparison of temperature data (-5 m water
   depth; 17 ft) between Cayos Cochinos and Roatán. Trends are very
   similar however Cayos tends to be slightly warmer than Roatán. This may
   be a result from the fact that Cayos is situated on a shallow shelf and
   Roatán is surrounded by deep water. Surface water is warmed quicker in
   shallow seas.

   click for a larger image Comparison of salinity data (- 5 m water
   depth; 17 ft) between Cayos Cochinos and Roatán. Salinity is very
   similar between sites except for the magnitude of events that may input
   fresher water. Since Cayos is situated closer to the mainland it is
   often subjected to plumes of river discharge which might be reflected
   in these data. Roatán is primarily subjected to local runoff except
   during extreme events such as those observed from Hurricane Mitch.

   Sea Surface Temperatures

   click for a larger image Sea surface temperature anomaly provided by Al
   Strong at NOAA/NESDIS. Data are produced from AVHRR satellite imagery
   and have been very reliable in predicting where and when coral
   bleaching events will take place. This image is from October 10, 1998,
   prior to passing of Hurricane Mitch. You can see that there are
   widespread warm waters (orange hues) in the Caribbean Sea. Coral
   bleaching in 1998 was the most severe on record and decimated a large
   percentage of coral worldwide. This data can be obtained from NOAAs
   website located at the following address:
   psbsgi1.nesdis.noaa.gov:8080/PSB/EPS/SST/al_climo.html

   click for a larger image Sea surface temperature anomaly provided by
   NOAA. This image is from November 3, 1998, a few days after the passing
   of Hurricane Mitch through the Bay Islands. If you look closely at the
   north coast of Honduras you will see shades of blue indicating cooler
   water. It is thought that this cooler water was brought up from depth
   by the hurricane. In fact, Hurricane Mitch might have saved the reefs
   of Honduras from the devastation of coral bleaching that was so
   widespread elsewhere in the world.

   click for a larger image Sea surface temperature anomaly provided by
   NOAA. This image is from October 9, 1999 showing warm waters in the
   Caribbean. Water temperatures for 1999 were high but the duration of
   warm water was short compared to 1998 and hence severe coral bleaching
   was not observed during 1999.

   click for a larger image Sea surface temperature anomaly provided by
   NOAA. This image is from October 10, 2000 showing shades of blue
   throughout the Caribbean. El Niño was non-existent during 2000 and sea
   surface temperatures are reflective of its absence.

   click for a larger image SeaWiFS (Sea-viewing Wide Field-of view
   Sensor) image from November 1, 1998 showing large plume reaching out to
   Guanaja. Image represents chlorophyll concentrations in the surface
   water, however it is assumed that chlorophyll is related to terrestrial
   discharge that is fresher and contains higher nutrients than normal
   seawater. This image is taken three days after Hurricane Mitch moved
   through the bay islands dropping up to 1.8 m (6 ft) of rain on the
   portions of Honduras The plume of fresh water is coming from the Aquán
   River. Serge Andrefouet, located at the University of South Florida in
   St. Petersburg, Florida, provided all SeaWiFS images.

   click for a larger image SeaWiFS data from September 2, 2000. This
   image was obtained to compare to in situ salinity data. There appears
   to be a plume originating out of the Aquán River and moving west,
   possibly crossing the Cayos Cochinos area. This might be represented as
   one of the low salinity spikes recorded in the Cayos region.

   click for a larger image SeaWiFS data from September 4, 2000. Two days
   after the previous image showing that the plume has migrated away from
   the Aquán River to the west and is now represented as a green (higher
   chlorophyll) region around Cayos.


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/coral.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Wednesday, December 05, 2001
