http://www.phila.gov/commerce/index.html


   Cityseal
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                    Commerce Home

                    Keystone
   Opportunity Zones

   Empowerment Zones

   Enterprise Zones

   Special Services Districts

   Mayor's E-Commerce Commission

   Mayor's Business Action Team

   Philly College
   Town

   Links

   Contacts
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif]
   Commerce

   The Office of the City Representative and Director of Commerce promotes
   and develops the foreign and domestic commerce of the City of
   Philadelphia. These activities and policies are implemented through the
   Department of Commerce, the Office of City Representative, the Office
   of Arts and Culture, and the International Visitors Council. This
   office also works closely with the Philadelphia Industrial Development
   Corporation and the Philadelphia Commercial Development Corporation.

   DEPARTMENT OF  COMMERCE
   The Department of Commerce, the economic development arm of the city,
   implements the City's economic development policy. One primary goal of
   the Department is to support activities that cultivate economic
   opportunities for residents. Using local, state and federal funding,
   the Department of Commerce supports commercial and industrial
   rehabilitation and infrastructure and business development.

   Neighborhood Economic Development Unit
   The unit promotes economic development, encourages entrepreneurship
   and provides technical assistance and financing to small businesses.
   These efforts are designed to improve the economic base of
   Philadelphia's neighborhoods, provide additional employment
   opportunities for residents, and bolster the commercial/industrial
   sector of low-income communities.
   For more information call: 215-683-2106

   Economic Development Contract Administration Unit
   The Economic Development Contract Administration Unit implements the
   programs and policies of the Neighborhood Economic Development Unit.
   All program-related matters including pre-and-post approval contract
   reviews and grant management issues are served by this Unit's staff.
   For more information call: 215-683-2023

   The Mayor's Business Action Team (MBAT)
   MBAT is the primary point of contact between the Department of Commerce
   and the business community. MBAT also brings together city departments
   and agencies to resolve business concerns; ensures full delivery of
   city services; attracts businesses to expand in or locate to
   Philadelphia; and maintains a real estate network of local Realtors to
   provide clients with an extensive offering of available real estate
   that meets their specific requirements.
   For more information call: 215-683-2100

   International Office
   The Department of Commerce is responsible for overseeing diplomatic and
   consul affairs and engaging the business community in international
   trade activity.  The office also provides export counseling to the
   business community and promotes inbound and outbound trade missions.
   This office partners with the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. to offer
   financing services to companies. The objective of the office is to make
   Philadelphia a world class international city.
   For more information call: 215-683-2127

   Empowerment Zones
   Three neighborhoods; American Street, West Philadelphia and North
   Central Philadelphia were designated as Empowerment Zones. This program
   provides Philadelphia with resources to assist qualified businesses
   with low-interest financing, federal wage tax credits, and tax-exempt
   facility bonds. This program will phase out in December 31, 2004.
   For more information call: 215-683-2025

   Enterprise Zones
   American Street, Hunting Park West, the Port of Philadelphia, and West
   Parkside were designated State Enterprise Zones. A variety of
   incentives including low-interest loans, security rebates, state tax
   credits, and technical assistance are available to firms located in or
   looking to move into these areas. This program will phase out by 2004.
   For more information call: 215-683-2024

   Keystone Opportunity Zones (KOZs)
   Companies that locate in any of the State designated KOZs are exempt
   from all or most of State and local business, real estate, and use and
   occupancy taxes. These tax abatements are conditional on firms
   increasing full time jobs in the first year of operations or making
   capital investments in property within the zone. This program will
   phase out by December 31, 2010.
   For more information call: 215-683-2128

   External Commercial Improvement Program
   The Department of Commerce offers a program that extends resources and
   services to commercial districts. The program provides grants to
   businesses in specially designated areas to restore storefronts in
   neighborhood shopping areas.
   For more information call: 215-683-2024

   Security Assistance Program
   The Security Assistance Program provides a rebate on a 1:5
   public-private matching basis of up to $2,000 of public investment per
   firm for approved security improvements.
   For more information call: 215-683-2024

   Brownfields Program
   The Department of Commerce works with local economic development
   organizations and private developers to assist in the redevelopment of
   land with potential environmental liability. City, State and Federal
   funding is available for environmental assessments and remedial
   activities.
   For more information call: 215-683-2047

   OFFICE OF CITY REPRESENTATIVE
   The Office of the City Representative for Ceremonial and Special Events
   develops and promotes events to attract commerce, visitors and new
   residents to the City, and to improve the quality of life for city
   residents. The office officially represents the City at public, civic
   and special events and is responsible for official gifts,
   proclamations, tributes, citations and special recognition letters at
   the request of the mayor, for distribution to dignitaries and special
   honorees. Press information from city agencies is distributed daily, in
   coordination with the Mayor's Office of Communications.
   For more information call: 215-683-2060

   Student Retention Committee
   This Committee works with area universities and colleges to promote
   Philadelphia, support  the entrepreneurial efforts of graduates and
   expose students to local business opportunities thereby encouraging
   them to remain, live and work in the City. The Committee promotes
   Philadelphia's quality of life and job opportunities through its
   phillycollegetown.com web site.
   For more information call: 215-683-2058

   OFFICE OF ARTS AND CULTURE
   The Philadelphia Office of Arts and Culture supports the interests and
   concerns of the City's cultural community. Programs currently managed
   by and associated with the Office of Arts and Culture include Art in
   the City Hall, The Philadelphia Cultural Fund and Marian Anderson
   Award.
   For more information call: 215-683-2123

   INTERNATIONAL VISITORS COUNCIL (IVC)
   IVC is a non-profit agency that works in partnership with the
   Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. IVC
   administers the State Department's leadership exchange programs and
   arranges meetings for hundreds of inbound delegations each year. IVC
   connects Philadelphians with leaders in government and business, and
   through local volunteers provides training for government officials,
   legal professionals and entrepreneurs from emerging democracies and
   free markets.
   For more information call: 215-683-0999

   Sister Cities Program
   Good will, friendship and international commerce are goals of the
   Sister Cities Program. This program officially links Philadelphia with
   ten cities in nine countries for educational, cultural and business
   exchanges.
   For more information call 215-683-0999

   Philadelphia Trade Office
   The Philadelphia Trade Office provides free export assistance to
   Philadelphia businesses. The Trade Office is a partnership between the
   Department of Commerce and IVC with the goal of creating and retaining
   jobs through exports.
   For more information call: 215-683-2127/2029

   PHILADELPHIA COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (PCDC)
   PCDC is the City's primary agency for assisting small businesses
   throughout the City's neighborhoods. PCDC's mission is to revitalize
   neighborhoods and assist small businesses. PCDC's financial services
   include small business lending through such loan funds as the Small
   Business Revolving Loan Fund, the Housing Contractors Program, the
   Comcast Loan Fund, and the Small Business Micro Loan Fund. PCDC also
   manages the City's Neighborhood Commercial Revitalization Program.
   For more information call: 215-790-2200

   PHILADELPHIA INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (PIDC)
   PIDC administers loan programs to foster job and business growth in the
   City. PIDC's loans support an array of development needs including but
   not limited to acquisition, site preparation, construction,
   reconstruction, rehabilitation, machinery and equipment acquisition,
   infrastructure improvements and  related projects costs.
   For more information call: 215-496-8020

   [Commerce Home] [KOZ Main] [Enterprise Main] [Special Services Main]
   [Links Main] [Directory Main]
   bar
