http://www.100.nist.gov/ph_growth.htm

      Celebrating our Centennial NIST at 100: Foundations for Progress


                                    1991
                     Realizing the Future of Automation

   They may not be taking over the world—at least not yet—but robots are
   getting smarter. And a growing number owe their “brainpower” to NIST.

         In 1991, a floor-cleaning robot became the first commercial
   “intelligent machine” influenced by NIST’s real-time control system
    (RCS), a concept for controlling automation developed by NIST’s Jim
   Albus, a leading robotics researcher. The RCS has a unique hierarchical
    structure that creates an efficient organization for knowledge-based
   intelligent control of complex systems. Other commercial machines based
   on this concept are improving the precision of shipbuilding, delivering
    hospital supplies efficiently, and keeping U.S. troops out of harm’s
                    way by clearing land mines in Bosnia.

    The RCS was among the influential technologies to emerge from NIST’s
   Automated Manufacturing Research Facility, created in 1982 to provide a
     national testbed for R&D in computer-integrated manufacturing. The
   facility, which was co-sponsored by the U.S. Navy and involved research
     collaborations with industry and universities, has led to dozens of
     commercial products and many national and international standards.

     Among the contributions is the Standard for the Exchange of Product
      Model Data (STEP), which is designed to overcome interoperability
   problems that arise when automated systems attempt to share product and
   engineering data. These problems cost the auto industry alone about $1
     billion annually. First released in 1994, STEP is a universal file
     format that supports computer-to-computer exchanges of all types of
      product data. Significant cost and process improvements have been
                             reported by users.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth


                           Black Vertical Divider


                                    AMRF

                                    1991
                         Neutrons Offer New Insights

      From checking on food safety to nailing crime suspects to probing
    biological membranes, the NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR) has
   done practically everything a scientific facility can do—including some
               things that would be impossible anywhere else.

    The center offers a broad array of instruments and capabilities, some
   of which are unique in the United States and even the world. A special
     set of rare tools was added in 1991, when the Cold Neutron Research
      Facility was completed and became the first U.S. facility devoted
            solely to research with cold (lower-energy) neutrons.

      Neutron beams interact with the inner structures and dynamics of
       virtually any material, often revealing details that cannot be
    discerned in any other way. In its early years in the 1970s, the NCNR
     perhaps was best known for the use of “warm” neutrons in forensic
   investigations, such as the time when postal authorities matched specks
   of paint from a burglar’s tool satchel with the paint at several post
                    offices and broke up a burglary ring.

    Today, the center is pushing the frontiers of many fields of science.
     For example, research with “cold” neutrons has revealed molecular
     mechanisms involved in regulating muscle contraction and led to the
     development of improved additives that enable diesel fuel to remain
    fluid at subzero temperatures. Depth-profiling techniques led to the
   creation of a titanium nitride Standard Reference Material that now is
   used in semiconductor testing, meeting one of that industry’s greatest
    needs. Magnetic measurements have helped to explain the origin of the
   behavior of materials exhibiting “giant magnetoresistance,” the basis
                for ultrahigh-density computer hard drives..

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth

                                    1995
                       Creating a New State of Matter

   Pushing the limits of technology is NIST’s forte. It paid off in a big
    way in 1995, when scientists at JILA, a joint program of NIST and the
    University of Colorado (CU), created an entirely new state of matter
   predicted decades ago by Albert Einstein and Indian physicist Satyendra
                                 Nath Bose.

    The Bose-Einstein condensate—widely hailed as one of the century’s
   major achievements in physics—is an atomic counterpart to the laser in
   that a large number of atoms are in the same quantum mechanical state.
    (Lasers cause a large number of photons to have identical energy and
                                 direction.)

     To make this new state of matter, NIST’s Eric Cornell (pictured on
      right) and CU’s Carl Wieman cooled rubidium atoms to less than 1
    millionth of a degree above absolute zero (the hypothetical point at
     which a substance would have minimal energy), as much as 300 times
   lower than ever achieved in other scientific laboratories. At a certain
   temperature, the atoms condensed into a “superatom” that behaved as a
                               single entity.

   The achievement was made possible by laser cooling and magnetic traps,
     technologies that NIST played a major role in developing. Infrared
   lasers, similar to those used in compact disk players, were aligned so
      that the atoms were bombarded by a steady stream of photons from
   different directions. Once the atoms were slowed and cooled, they were
       kept in place by a magnetic field and further cooled until the
                             condensate formed.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth



                             Eric Cornell
                             © Geoffrey Wheeler


                                    1996
                     Biotechnology for the 21st Century

    A device the size of a keychain launched an industryand giant strides
   in science and medicinein 1996, when it became the first commercial DNA
                                    chip.

     It did so with the help of NISTs Advanced Technology Program (ATP),
   which accelerates the development of innovative technologies for broad
     national benefit through R&D partnerships with the private sector.

       The DNA chip is so named because of its similarity to the tiny
   integrated circuit that fuels the electronics industry. The difference
   is in the application. The newfangled device enables the operation of a
    miniaturized biological laboratory that quickly analyzes the genetic
                     makeup of blood or tissue samples.

     ATP funding also has led to other next-generation products for DNA
   analysis that have appeared on the market or in research laboratories,
       greatly advancing capabilities for research on human genetics,
     discovery of new drugs, improvements in agriculture, and testing of
   food and cosmetics. The new technologies are already up to 1,000 times
    faster than conventional methods, thereby saving time and money. They
                  also are highly accurate and convenient.

    As noted in a recent journal article, the godfather of the burgeoning
     field of DNA diagnostics is the ATP, which helped companies advance
     their early research to a stage where commercialization (with other
    funding) would be feasible. The ATP has co-funded more than two dozen
    projects in DNA diagnostics, including one that led to the first DNA
     chip, and a number of the award recipients are leaders in the field
                                   today.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth



                                    1996
                     Helping Small Manufacturers Thrive

   Small manufacturing firms gained an important advantage in the 1990s in
     the form of NISTs Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), which,
    according to an independent study, boosts the competitiveness of its
           clients beyond the average for companies of this size.

    The MEP helps these firms with everything from financial planning to
   plant layout to environmental studies. The services are offered through
    a network of more than 400 not-for-profit centers that provide small
   and medium-sized companies with access to more than 2,000 manufacturing
       and business specialists. In 1996, the MEP reached its goal of
   completing a nationwide network, enabling all of the more than 385,000
      U.S. small manufacturers in the 50 states and Puerto Rico to gain
                      access to MEP assistance centers.

      Through 1998, more than 84,000 firms have taken advantage of the
   services, which are fostering significant improvements in manufacturing
   and business performance. For example, in a 1999 follow-up study, 4,551
   MEP clients reported increased revenues of $294 million, $29 million in
    labor and materials savings, and $20 million in inventory reductions,
   while also investing $291 million in modernization. These clients also
            reported creating and retaining more than 7,000 jobs.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth


                                   MEP Map

                                    1997
                       Fire Research Helps Save Lives

    Three decades ago, U.S. fire losses were so large that a presidential
    commission was appointed to study the problem. The commission’s 1973
      report urged a greater emphasis on fire research, prevention, and
   education and set a national goal of reducing fire-related losses by at
                              least 50 percent.

     A 50 percent reduction in the U.S. fire death rate was attained in
   1997. A primary reason: Smoke detectors now are installed in more than
     95 percent of U.S. homes, compared to fewer than 10 percent in the
   early 1970s. NIST researchers made this improvement possible beginning
   in 1974 by developing, with Underwriters Laboratories’ participation,
         the first fire performance standard for smoke detectors and
   recommendations on the number, type, and location of home smoke alarms
        now found in all U.S. (and most foreign) codes and standards.

   NIST also worked closely with other government agencies, performing the
   technical work underpinning the first federal standards on children’s
    sleepwear and mattresses and writing the U.S. Fire Administration’s
      most popular educational booklets. Fire fatalities attributed to
      children’s sleepwear have virtually disappeared, and those from
       mattress fires have been cut in half. For the Federal Railroad
     Administration, NIST also tested the fire safety of passenger train
                         seats (see photo on right).

    The Institute’s long-standing relationships with the private sector
      have helped to introduce less-flammable floor coverings into the
       marketplace; verified the value of fire-retardant additives in
     increasing escape time from fires; and produced the only validated
    method for quantifying the lethality of smoke, now routinely used in
                            fire hazard analysis.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth


   Fire Research Helps Save Lives
   © Robert Rathe



                                    1997
                     Turning Around a Key U.S. Industry

   In 1991, the U.S. printed wiring board industry was in trouble. The $7
     billion industry with its 200,000 jobs was saved, according to the
      president of the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences, by a
     research project co-funded by NIST’s Advanced Technology Program.
        According to a 1997 study, the joint venture led to dramatic
    efficiencies in research and development (a $35.5 million savings, or
       more than two and a half times the ATP investment), accelerated
   research, and produced significant technological advances. The project
   also enabled more than 30 research tasks that otherwise would not have
                               been attempted.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth


                         Printed Wiring Board
                                © Hamilton Standard



                                    1997
                         Laser Cooling and Trapping
                               Win Nobel Prize

   Atoms or molecules in a gas are difficult to study because they move so
    fast. The molecules in air, for example, move at about 300 meters per
     second, or 1,000 kilometers per hour. But by pushing on the gaseous
     atoms with laser light, scientists can slow the atoms down, cooling
   them to within a millionth of a degree of absolute zero. NIST physicist
   William D. Phillips (pictured on right) won the Nobel Prize in physics
     in 1997 for his work on the development of methods to cool and trap
                           atoms with laser light.
    The discipline of cooling and trapping atoms, which emerged with the
     advent of laboratory lasers, was established in part by experiments
   with ions (electrically charged atoms) by David J. Wineland and others
   at NIST’s Boulder campus beginning in the 1970s. Inspired by this work,
    Phillips and his team demonstrated both the trapping of atoms (which
     are electrically neutral) with a magnetic field and the cooling of
    atoms well below the temperature limits generally believed possible.

   The Nobel committee said the new methods of investigation developed by
   Phillips and two other 1997 prize winners “have contributed greatly to
   increasing our knowledge of the interplay between radiation and matter.
    In particular, they have opened the way to a deeper understanding of
        the quantum-physical behavior of gases at low temperatures.”

     The research has enabled the design and construction of one of the
     world’s most accurate clocks, NIST F-1, which is used by NIST (in
   cooperation with the Naval Observatory) to maintain the nation’s time
   standard. In other experiments at NIST, laser cooling and trapping have
   been used to achieve a new state of matter. Some day, this research may
       lead to practical advances such as quantum computers capable of
                   processing information in unique ways.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth



                               Bill Phillips
                               © Robert Rathe



                                    1998
                     Flawed Rivets May Have Sunk Titanic

    Since the sinking of the giant ocean liner Titanic in 1912, numerous
    theories have been advanced about the causes. NIST has one too—weak
     rivets. NIST metallurgist Tim Foecke’s microscopic analysis of 48
   wrought iron rivets recovered from the ship’s hull have revealed that
    nearly 40 percent contained up to three times the amount of slag (the
    glassy residue left behind after the smelting of ore) allowed at the
      time. This made the rivets prone to premature failure. Titanic’s
     collision with the iceberg may have caused the rivet heads to break
   off, opening seams and allowing water to rush in between the separated
                 hull plates, speeding the ship’s descent.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth


                                  Titanic
               © Smithsonian Institution, NMAH/Transportation



                                    1999
                       Promoting Quality in U.S. Firms

     Is the quality of American goods and services getting better? Yes,
    according to the non-profit Council on Competitive-ness. The council
   credits the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award as a key mechanism
                   in strengthening U.S. competitiveness.

     The Baldrige Award was established by the U.S. Congress in 1987 to
      recognize individual U.S. companies for their achievements and to
   provide quality awareness and information on successful performance and
    competitiveness strategies. Since then, the award, managed by NIST’s
      Baldrige National Quality Program (BNQP) in conjunction with the
     private sector, has become the nation’s premier award for business
       performance excellence and quality achievement. Since 1988, 37
                organizations have received a Baldrige award.

   More than 1.7 million paper copies of the BNQP Criteria for Performance
   Excellence—which has been called “the single most influential document
    in the modern history of American business”—have been distributed,
   reflecting the impact of the program. (Additional copies are available
    in books, from state and local award programs, and for download from
    the World Wide Web.) The criteria span company leadership, strategic
    planning, customer and market focus, information and analysis, human
   resource focus, process management, and business results. Also in 1999,
      the program was expanded to include educational organizations and
      health care providers, promising important benefits to consumers.

     State and local quality programs—most modeled after the BNQP—have
   increased in number from fewer than 10 in 1991 to more than 50 in 1999.
   Forty-three states currently have programs. Internationally, nearly 60
     quality programs are in operation, most modeled after the Baldrige
                      program, including one in Japan.

                      Back to Promoting Economic Growth


                            Date created: 11/6/00
                            Last updated: 12/6/00
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.



                                Award Crystal
