http://www.calcarenet.ca.gov/home_community_services.asp


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   California Care Network Home
                   Residential Care
                   Medical Care
                   Mental Health Care
                   Alcohol & Drug Treatment Services
                   In-Home Health / Medical Care Services
                   Adult Day Service Centers
                   Home and Community Services
                   Search for a Facility
                   Checklists and Guides
                   Links



   California Care Network




   Home and Community Services

   Most Californians who have on-going health limitations remain in their
   own home or apartment. They may receive personal care and household
   assistance from family, friends, and neighbors or from various agencies
   in the community.

   Information about services in your local area is available through a
   network of Information and Assistance (I& A) programs that specialize
   in information of particular value to older persons and younger
   disabled adults, their families and caregivers. These and other aging
   network programs are funded through California's 33 Area Agencies on
   Aging. Area Agencies on Aging are responsible for planning and
   delivering these services.

   Your I&A program can provide you with information about in-home care,
   day care programs, care management services, meal programs, home
   modifications, adaptive technology, transportation services, home
   health and hospice programs, mental health services, respite care,
   caregiver support programs, legal services, health insurance
   counseling, and other resources in your community.

   Call (800) 510-2020 to reach the nearest aging services I&A program.
   You can also obtain the local I&A number for each county in California.

   If you live in California but need to find resources for someone
   outside the state, call the nationwide Eldercare Locator at
   1-800-677-1116, to obtain the telephone number for the local
   Information & Assistance program in the other state.

   Descriptions of Home and Community Services

   Chore Assistance

   Chore assistance includes help with routine housework, laundry, meal
   planning and preparation, grocery shopping and other tasks required to
   maintain a home. Home health care and other private agencies hire and
   train individuals to provide this type of assistance. The In-Home
   Supportive Services (IHSS) Program is the major public program
   providing this type of assistance.
   Personal Care

   Personal care includes help with non-medical activities of daily living
   such as bathing, dressing, grooming, walking/ambulating, eating, and
   bowel and bladder care. Home health care and other private agencies
   hire and train individuals to provide this type of assistance. The
   In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) Program is the major public program
   providing this type of assistance.
   Medical Care

   A variety of skilled nursing activities, including but not limited to,
   serious wound care, intravenous therapy, HIV care, ventilator and
   respiratory care, catheter care, diet and specialized feeding,
   medication delivery and monitoring, and general skilled monitoring and
   observation, are available in the community. This type of assistance in
   the home is usually provided by licensed home health care agencies. The
   local I&A service can provide you with contact information for programs
   in your area that provide these types of care.
   Home Modifications

   A wide range of changes can be made to increase an individual's
   independence, access, and safety in a residence. These changes include
   but are not limited to the installation of grab bars and hand rails,
   raised toilets, bath benches, ramps and wider doorframes to accommodate
   a wheelchair. The local I&A service can provide you with referrals to
   programs in your area that make these types of modifications.
   Assistive Technology (AT)

   A variety of assistive devices are available for individuals who need
   help. Examples include special lighting and magnification devices,
   telephone and other sound amplification devices, easy grip tools, etc.
   The California AT Network is dedicated to expanding the accessibility
   of tools, resources and technology that will help increase
   independence, improve personal productivity and enhance the quality of
   life for all Californians.
   Care Coordination

   Providers of this service specialize in the following activities:
   helping an individual assess what personal or nursing assistance, home
   modifications, assistive technology and other community services could
   be helpful; securing that needed assistance; monitoring the quality of
   the care and services being provided on an on-going basis; and
   recommending changes over time as the individual's health or care needs
   fluctuate or change.

   There are private and public programs that provide care coordination
   assistance, which is also referred to as "care management" or "case
   management." Examples of public programs that offer care coordination
   are Linkages, the Multipurpose Senior Services Program (MSSP), and
   Medical Case Management (MCM) Program. The local I&A service can
   identify programs and services providing care coordination in your
   area.
   Health Insurance Counseling

   The Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) is an
   example of a program that provides community education to the public,
   as well as individualized one-to-one counseling on Medicare, managed
   care, and other private health insurance issues.
   Respite

   Respite programs offer family members and caregivers temporary relief
   from the demands of caregiving. Respite services are offered by a
   variety of residential and day care facilities, or by individuals.
      __________________________________________________________________

   Medi-Cal (Medicaid)

   Medi-Cal provides medically necessary health care services to eligible
   individuals. For persons with complex medical conditions, the Medical
   Case Management Program, or one of four home and community-based
   services waivers, can assist individuals in returning to or remaining
   at home. Waiver services are typically in addition to services
   available under Medi-Cal and are only available to individuals who meet
   the criteria for the specific waiver.
   Medical Case Management (MCM) Program

   Provides short-term case management to Medi-Cal beneficiaries who have
   no other health care coverage. Individuals eligible for MCM services
   generally have complex, chronic and/or catastrophic medical conditions.
   MCM assists in planning the discharge from an acute hospital to a home
   setting. MCM typically approves home health care services and other
   related medical services. MCM staff follow-up with the Medi-Cal
   beneficiary to ensure services are meeting their needs.

   Contact: Department of Health Services, Medical Case Management at 1
   (800) 970-8450.
   Multipurpose Senior Services Program (MSSP)

   Provides social and health case management to assist persons who are
   aged 65 and over, eligible for Medi-Cal, and would otherwise need
   skilled nursing care, to remain safely at home. MSSP clients tend to
   live alone, and need someone who can fill the "family member" role of:
     * Helping the client to identify and connect with needed services
     * Checking that needed prescribed or promised goods or services were
       delivered correctly
     * Checking that the client is using the goods or services properly
       and appropriately

   In many cases, the client is already receiving In-home Supportive
   Services (IHSS) and related care through Medi-Cal.

   Contact: More information about this program is available by calling
   (800) 510-2020 or at the MSSP Program Page. **This waiver has a limit
   on the number of individuals that can be enrolled.
   Medi-Cal Model Nursing Facility (NF) Waiver

   Provides nursing and other services, which are medically necessary to
   provide support to help maintain a person at home. This program
   includes a range of services, including personal care that provide an
   alternative to care in a nursing or subacute facility. Unlike other
   waivers, which require regular Medi-Cal eligibility (evaluation of the
   family income), the Model waiver excludes the income and resources of
   anyone other than the individual who is seeking services, in
   determining eligibility.

   Contact: Department of Health Services, In-Home Operations at (916)
   324-5941 ** This waiver has a limit on the number of individuals that
   can be enrolled.
   Medi-Cal Nursing Facility (NF) Waiver

   Provides nursing and other services, which are medically necessary to
   provide support to help maintain a person at home. This program
   includes a range of services, including personal care that provide an
   alternative to care in a nursing or subacute facility. An individual
   must be Medi-Cal eligible to receive services through this waiver.

   Contact: Department of Health Services, In-Home Operations at (916)
   324-5941 **This waiver has a limit on the number of individuals that
   can be enrolled.
   Medi-Cal In-Home Medical Care (IHMC) Waiver

   Provides nursing and other services, which are medically necessary to
   provide support to help maintain a person at home. This program
   includes a range of services that provide an alternative to care in an
   acute hospital setting. An individual must be Medi-Cal eligible to
   receive services through this waiver.

   Contact: Department of Health Services, In-Home Operations at (916)
   324-5941 **This waiver has a limit on the number of individuals that
   can be enrolled.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
