http://tccr.oar.noaa.gov/Meetings/06-27-94minutes.html

                           Minutes of TCCR Meeting
                             June 27, 1994 A.D.
                               12:00 noon EDT


   Present:
   Don Mock,
       Joyce Harris,
       Joan Brundage,
       Walt Harrop,
       Dave Lewis,
       Stan Wilkison,
       Rich Beeler,
       Terry Moore,
       Merle Ahrens,
       Paul Lu, Al Taylor,
       Chris Labbe,
       Randy Davis,
       Larry Lewis,
       Kevin Kelleher,
       Jean Hopson,
       Dave Berklund,
       Don Del Proposto.

   The meeting was conducted via telephone and was called to order by Don
   Mock at 12:02 P.M.

   Agenda
   The agenda was discussed and revised as follows:

     * Approval of Agenda
     * ERL Internetworking Plan
     * Access to Alaska CRAY
     * CMAC Charter and Bylaws
     * Status of CSCS Funds
     * Mosaic
     * Requirements Planning
     * ERL Internetworking Plan

   Don Mock introduced the ERL Internetworking plan and  acknowledged the
   networking subgroup and Don Cote's staff in  the preparation of the
   plan. We decided to focus on two areas  in reviewing the plan including
   major structural factors and  technical content. Terry Moore
   volunteered to take more  detailed notes on the changes to the document
   than the  minutes indicate.

   ERL Internetworking Plan

   Major Structural Factors
   1. Kevin Kelleher made the comment that the current status  of ERL
       networking was understated in the first 3 sections of  the plan.
       Kevin suggested tying the document to the Gore  white paper on
       Internetworking.
       2. Section V needs to describe how the financial numbers  came
       from. Terri Moore will justify the numbers in more  detail.
       3. We discussed the surveys and the responses - were they
       pie-in-the-sky or conservative? There was a mixed response.  Paul
       Lu commented that the $25M figures may turn off the ERL  management
       or the HPCC Program Office. It was suggested that  we would present
       options if the management or the program office  asks for
       alternatives.
       4. Joyce Harris made suggestions for inclusion in the  transmittal
       document.

   Technical Content
   1. Cover Page - Comments were made concerning the  similarity of the
       cover page to the uniforum logo. We also  discussed the number of
       colors in the cover. These issues are  being checked on.
       2. Introduction - It was suggested that page 3, figure 1  be
       generalized.
       3. Vision - Add a caption and enhance figure on page 7 to
       illustrate global connectivity. Paul Lu will send some  reference
       figures to Terry Moore.
       4. Issues - Font changes need to be made to the minor
       sub-headings. The tone of this section needs to emphasize  progress
       already made by ERL. The term campus area network  (CAM) needs to
       be clarified. The integration of ERL with the  NOAA Campus Networks
       and the Internet needs to be stressed.
       5. Internetworking Requirements - It was suggested that  each lab
       review the results of the second survey. Terri Moore  will call
       each TCCR member to verify the results. It was  suggested that this
       section be linked to the NOAA Strategic  Plan, ERL mission and Gore
       Internetworking white paper.
       6. Implementation - The need for coordination of  Internetworking
       in ERL was clarified. The word centralization  was incorrect. We
       need to justify and explain numbers.

   Acknowledgements
   Terri will check with the editing staff to determine what
       acknowledgement as necessary and whose names will be put on  the
       document.

   Procedures for Completing the Document
   Don Mock, Kevin Kelleher, Rich Beeler, Walt Harrop, Merle  Ahrens, Paul
       Lu, and Dave Lewis will review the revised  document.

   ACCESS TO ALASKA CRAY
   Paul Lu discussed the arrangement with the University of  Alaska for
       the use of their CRAY and T3D systems. Paul will  send additional
       information regarding this facility via  e-mail to the TCCR
       representatives. PMEL and AOML are  transitioning from the
       Gaithersburg NIST CRAY to the Alaska  facility. The committee
       agreed that further use of the  Gaithersburg CRAY will not be
       necessary after October 1,  1994.
       FSL is now providing time on their Massively Parallel  Processing
       computer system. Labs interested in using this  system should
       contact Joan Brundage for more information.

   CMAC CHARTER AND BY-LAWS
   The CMAC charter is still in draft stage. Judy Gray has  received
       comments from the TCCR and Lab Directors. Approval  is expected at
       the July 15th directors meeting.

   STATUS OF CSCS FUNDS
   No firm decision has been made concerning the CSCS  funding. Bob Alvis
       provided the following information  concerning distribution of
       these funds:
       CSCS Funds Budget for FY 94:

   CSCS-FY94 $1966K
       FY93 Outlay -2038K
       -------------------------------------
       FY94 Net -72K

   CSCS Funds Budget for FY 95:
   CSCS-FY95 $1966K
       FY94 carryover -72K
       PMEL (AK-CRAY) -200K
       SEL (SELDADS) -100K
       CDC (BASE) -112K
       Boulder Network -150K (est.)
       ---------------------------------------------
       FY95 Remaining $1332K (est.)

   MOSAIC
   At a recent NOAA ESDIM meeting it was decided that Mosaic  was a good
       first step for data resource discovery, inventory  lists, anonymous
       ftp dataset, etc. Several of the line  organizations are
       experimenting with Mosaic, with hopes of  setting standards for its
       use within NOAA. TCCR members were encouraged  to start
       implementing Mosaic home pages.

   REQUIREMENTS PLANNING
   As older initiative expire the new format for requirements  initiatives
       will be required. No additional paper work will  be required using
       the new format. Questions should be  directed to Jean Hopson and
       Sandy Wine.

   NEXT TCCR MEETING
   The next TCCR meeting will be held in Boulder on November 15th and
       16th or December 6th and 7th. Rich Beeler of ETL will host  the
       meeting and let the committee know what dates can be accommodated.
