http://caer.msfc.nasa.gov/whoweare.html

   CaER - Who We are


      The Customer and Employee Relations Directorate includes those
      departments with primary responsibility for focusing Center planning,
      facilitating clear communication, fostering an effective, motivated
      workforce, and forming partnerships and alliances. Grouping these
      offices into one organization provides extensive opportunities to seize
      advantage of the natural synergies among them and to create new
      synergies — enabling even greater creativity to fulfill the roles of
      the Directorate.

   Our Mission

      In order to better serve our customers and to maximize the performance
      of NASA and the Marshall Center, CaER — in collaboration with our
      stakeholders and partners — will provide:
        * Coordinated strategic planning
        * Developmental resources
        * Innovative communications

   Our Philosophy

   CaER is essential to the Marshall Space Flight Center's success because
   we:
     * Develop and deliver cohesive, integrated messages.
     * Ensure Marshall has the right people with the right skills at the
       right place at the right time.
     * Communicate a unified sense of direction.
     * Focus energies to create synergistic partnerships.
     * Stimulate public imagination.

Our Values

   CaER Values the Team
     * We embrace diversity — our greatest strength.
     * We treat each other with honesty, respect, and trust.
     * We support each other.
     * We have fun together.
     * We make a difference.

   CaER Values its Customers
     * We listen to and communicate well with our customers.
     * We understand and anticipate our customers' needs.
     * We recognize and appreciate that our customers are our future.
     * We do the right thing.

   CaER Values Continual Learning
     * We are always exploring new ways to do better.
     * We reward innovation and thinking "outside the box."
     * We are creative problem solvers.
     * We create a culture that is excited about change.

Our Customer Creed

     * We exceed our customers' expectations.
     * We treat our customers with courtesy and respect.
     * We seek feedback regularly from our customers.
     * We value our customers' knowledge and experience.
     * We are accessible to our customers.
     * We respond promptly to customer requests.
     * Three things count when dealing with customers: attitude, attitude,
       and attitude.

Synergies

   Deliberate, complimentary relationships exist in CaER, allowing the
   Center and the Directorate to achieve the greatest return on its
   resources and investments.

   An active focus on NASA's strategies and Marshall's implementation plan
   drives the Directorate's functions. The same organization that helps
   the Center's top management form and steer long-term strategy is now
   hiring, training, re-training, and motivating the workforce needed to
   carry it out. This shortens the Center's response time to changes in
   the external technological, economical, and political environment.

   For example, CaER's relationships and accessibility to news media,
   industry, and trade organizations enable the Center to match our
   internal skills to the needs of our external customers. In addition,
   the research aspects of the Education Office's post-secondary and
   joint-venture programs, when combined with the co-op and new hire
   mixes, can improve the Center's ability to quickly respond to unplanned
   skills shortages. By nurturing external partnerships and alliances that
   promote technologies needed by both NASA and its customers, CaER
   accelerates the acceptance of these technologies, especially for
   commercial and humanitarian applications.

   CaER has the resources and mission to quickly communicate to all
   employees the reasoning behind new strategies and policies. These same
   themes and messages determine the programs, audience selection,
   products and services provided to the Center's customers in Government,
   the community, news media, industry, academia, NASA Headquarters, and
   other NASA centers. This unifies the Center's internal and external
   messages, reduces misinterpretations, and raises the Center's
   credibility. By coordinating consistent and accurate messages between
   Center programs and their various external audiences, the Marshall
   Center can more effectively raise public awareness, general
   appreciation, and support of the Center as a local and national
   resource.

   As a principal part of the Center's efforts to remain on the "cutting
   edge," it is vital that Marshall's unique skills remain relevant to
   current and potential external missions. The synergy between employee,
   organization, and technology developments; employee communications; and
   human resources is a catalyst to better develop the critical skills the
   Center needs. This tightened relationship supports the evolution of a
   focused workforce and ensures the Center has the appropriate skills at
   the appropriate time to meet NASA's new challenges. In the areas where
   Marshall has developed this expertise, it will take the lead for NASA.
   CaER's expertise helps amplify Marshall's voice in NASA's day-to-day
   decisions by providing agencywide leadership in such areas as employee
   training, communication and outreach, and managing inter-Center tools
   like Spacelink, Electronic Meeting System, and AdminSTAR.

   CaER capitalizes on the synergy between the Center's formal and
   informal education programs; public information programs — including
   publications, exhibits, and speakers, etc; Educator Resource Center
   activities; community relations; technology outreach; launch guest
   operations; and more. These programs share similar employee skills and
   have complementary products and services.

   Formal education programs bring new teaching concepts to the Center,
   which can be quickly incorporated into employee and organizational
   development. Combining university research programs and technology
   education outreach under one organization adds to the
   cross-fertilization of ideas.

   The CaER philosophy recognizes that employees are the Center's best
   ambassadors. A positive, motivated, highly skilled workforce,
   knowledgeable of the Center's historic contributions, current
   capabilities, and goals, is vital to the Center's future.
