http://www.house.gov/cubin/

                                [header.jpg]

                                 [EMBED]


   Welcome to my website. It is a great honor to represent the people of
   Wyoming in the House of Representatives.

                                                                        [2.jpg]

                                   [EMBED]

   U.S. Representative
   Barbara Cubin
   1114 Longworth, HOB
   Washington, D.C. 20515
   phone: (202) 225-2311
   toll free: (888) 879-3599
   fax: (202) 225-3057



   [front.jpg]
   Sept. 12, 2001: Firefighters start a grim day of recovery by raising a
   flag in the rubble at the World Trade Center in New York. (Thomas E.
   Franklin - The Record via AP)

                                  [cdc.gif]
                     For more information on the threat
                      of Anthrax from CDC, click here.

                           [war_on_terrorism.gif]
                  For emergency and relief information and
                 the latest news from Congress, click here.

                           [afghan_child_fund.gif]
                        For information on America's
                    Fund for Afghan Children, click here.

                                 [avip.gif]
                     Anthrax Vaccine Information Program
                  of the Department of Defense, click here.

                        Welcome to The Western Caucus

   [6th_grade_volleyball.jpg]
   (photo ctsy: Carli Harrington, Casper Journal)

   Barbara hangs out with the Fort Caspar 6th grade volleyball team. Rep.
   Cubin visited on Sept. 27 to honor students for their efforts to raise
   funds for victims of the terrorist attacks of 9/11.

                      Click here for a photo of Barbara
                   at Fort Caspar Elementary on Sept. 27.

                               NEWS HEADLINES
     * Cubin To Meet With Bush, Cheney at Camp David Retreat Congressional
       Leaders
     * Cubin Calls Into Question Federal Agencies' Actions on Canadian
       Lynx ESA Study
     * Cubin Cosponsors Bill to Increase Medicare Compensation
     * Cubin Announces Service Academy Nominees
     * Cubin Launches Toll Free Washington Number
     * Click Here for More News Stories

      A Column by Representative Barbara Cubin Regarding Human Cloning

    A recent announcement by Advanced Cell Technology (ACT), Inc. that it
        has created the first human embryos through cloning is deeply
      disturbing to say the least. The act of creating human clones for
      experimentation and eventual destruction is appalling and wrong.

     I oppose cloning human embryos for any purpose. I voted for, and in
   July the U.S. House of Representatives passed by a vote of 265 to 162,
       legislation to stop unethical research based on human cloning.

    The bill I cosponsored and voted for prohibits all human cloning. It
      also acknowledges that cloning is contradictory to the ethics of
                            responsible research.

   For man to create life, only to eventually destroy it or harvest it for
       profit, cannot be justified. Simply put, the act of cloning for
   research purposes creates a subclassification of human existence. It's
   unethical, it's immoral, and it's beneath a society that prides itself
                         on its compassion for life.

     On the heels of ACT's conduct in this regard, Congress must take a
    closer look at private biotech firms and their ability to balance the
    moral implications of creating and manipulating human life with their
      thirst for profits. Can we allow the bottom line to influence the
     sanctity of human life? No we cannot. Creating human life with the
                 intent to destroy that life is unthinkable.

   The Senate has yet to act on this incredibly important issue. Before we
     face yet another announcement from another biotech firm, the Senate
       must act swiftly by taking the House's lead to end this ethical
                                 onslaught.

                             AMERICA FIGHTS BACK
                Cubin: "The American Spirit Will Rise Above"

   Our hearts are heavy, but our spirits soar. Today we are truly a united
   people. Not adjoined by these horrific acts of violence, but by a deep
     devotion for our fellow countrymen. I am profoundly proud to be an
    American - to see the rescue crews give selflessly of themselves; to
     hear of the acts of heroism, both during and after Tuesday's tragic
   events; and to experience the resolve of our nation as we move forward;
     it is truly awe-inspiring. Never in our history have we experienced
     this magnitude of violence to our civilian population; never in our
      history have we faced an enemy who cowers in the shadows, hidden
      amongst a civilian population. We will defeat this enemy; we will
   preserve this country and our freedoms; and we will do it with a spirit
               that will inspire the world. God bless America.

                               [signature.gif]
