http://idlastro.gsfc.nasa.gov/other_url.html

                 Links to other Astronomy and IDL related sites

General IDL Resources

   General Information about IDL from Research Systems Inc.
          RSI is the manufacturer of IDL (and a division of Kodak), and
          this is the Web site to obtain a summary of IDL functionality,
          information about pricing and supported machines, or to download
          an IDL demo. The site also contains a section of IDL Tech Tips.

   Online IDL Documentation in HTML format
          In V5.1, the IDL internal documentation was made available in
          HTML format. Unfortunately, this no longer seems to be available
          for later IDL versions

   IDL Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
          There is a IDL FAQ site (last updated June 2000) containing most
          frequently asked questions posted to the Usenet newsgroup
          comp.lang.idl-pvwave for the IDL and PV-WAVE languages. However,
          more current and complete are the IDL Programming Tips and
          Tricks and IDL Bug reports from David Fanning's Coyote's Guide
          to IDL Programming. Old messages from comp.lang.idl-pvwave are
          archived at the google.com Web site

   Coyote's Guide to IDL Programming
          Excellent tips on IDL programming from independent IDL
          consultant David Fanning. Also includes a collection of user
          reports on IDL anomalies, and about 50 very useful IDL utility
          procedures. Especially useful for color tables and
          object-oriented IDL programming. David is also the author of the
          book IDL Programming Techniques

   IDL Plotting Widgets:
          Several groups have written IDL widgets to allow interactive
          manipulation of a plot. David Fanning's MPI_PLOT package is a
          object-oriented interactive wrapper for many PLOT keywords. The
          FUSE group in Paris has written Xiplot which can read a FITS
          binary table and allows some spectral manipulation. Paul van
          Delst has written WPLOT and WOPLOT which display resizable and
          zoomable graphics. The function_1d.pro program in the TARA
          package includes fitting and shifting procedures. The XPLOT
          widget from ESRF allows for data analysis of X-Y plots, and is
          available upon request. Older plotting widgets include the
          well-documented GRAFFER by James Tappin (U. of Birmingham) which
          was last updated (Version 2.02) June 1999.

   ICG (Institute for Chemistry and Dynamic of the Geosphere) Library
          This large library of IDL programs at the ForschungsZentrum
          Jülich in Germany includes procedures for conversion of IDL
          variables and structures into html code, plotting, programming
          tools, widgets, and a interface to a facsimile differential
          equation solver for chemical reactions. Version 1.7 was release
          in July 2001.

   JHU (Johns Hopkins U.) APL/S1R IDL Information Page
          Ray Sterner runs this Web site at the JHU Applied Physics
          Laboratory which includes several IDL tutorials, and a pointer
          to the large JHU/APL/S1R IDL Library. Last updated 19 Feb 2001.

   Liam Gumley's IDL Library
          This IDL library at the University of Wisconsin includes
          procedures for handling colors, pointers, binary I/O, and image
          display. Last updated 28 August 2000. Liam has also written a
          book about Practical IDL Programming

   Mark Hadfield's IDL Library
          This IDL library in New Zealand contains several plotting &
          animation Object Graphics classes, a couple of netCDF file
          classes. Requires IDL V5.4 (but a V5.3 version is available).
          Last updated 23 Oct 2001.

   Ron Kling Consulting
          This site is probably most useful for its C code available as
          DLM (dynamically linked modules) to enhance IDL capabilities.
          Ronn Kling is the author of the books "Application Development
          with IDL" and "Calling C from IDL"

   Robert Mallozzi's IDL Library
          This IDL library at Marshall Space Flight Center includes
          procedures for widget, objects, and pointers. (Robert Mallozzi
          passed away in November 2000.)

   Craig Markwardt's IDL Library
          This IDL library at the University of Wisconsin includes many
          well-documented plotting, utility, ephemeris, mathematics and
          robust curve-fitting procedures. Last updated 17 Jan 2002.

   Mati Meron's IDL Library
          This IDL Library FTP site at the University of Chicago is good
          place to look for special mathematical functions. Last updated
          September 1999?

   Martin Schultz's IDL Library
          This IDL library at the Max-Planck-Institut für Meteorologie was
          developed for atmospheric science applications, but includes
          many well-documented IDL utilities. Also include links and
          search pages for 11 other public IDL libraries. Last updated;
          August 2001.

   Mathew Craig's TeXtoIDL Software
          This software translates the TeX character set into the (often
          obscure) IDL plotting symbol codes. Updated for V5.3 in November
          2001.

   David Windt's IDL Library
          This IDL library at Columbia University Astrophysics Laboratory
          includes useful procedures for plotting, curve fitting, and
          image analysis. Also includes IMD, a widget tool for analysis of
          optical multilayers. Last updated September 2000

   IDLWAVE - Gnu IDL Emacs Mode
          The Emacs mode for IDL is maintained by JD Smith at Cornell
          University. Version 4.12 was released in January 2002.

   Using IDL on the Web
          A collection of perl scripts and HTML forms to demonstrate the
          use of IDL as a graphics engine to generate on-the-fly GIF
          images on the World Wide Web. Last updated July 30, 1997.

   IDL Wavelet Software:
          Christopher Torrence and Gilbert Campo have written a Practical
          Guide to Wavelet Analysis with applications in geophysics, and
          include some IDL software. Amara Graps has written a Wavelet
          workbench in IDL, which is adapted from the MATLAB Wavelab
          software, and which is available in the RSI Directory of
          User-Contributed software . Also, Multi Resolutions Ltd. sells a
          software package for Multiresolution Analysis which includes
          about 5000 lines of IDL code. Note that since IDL V5.3 has had
          an optional Wavelet Toolkit.

Astronomy IDL Software Sites

   ACS (Advanced Camera for Surveys) analysis software
          The ACS is scheduled to be installed on the Hubble Space
          Telescope in February 2002. The calibration team IDL software
          includes procedures for spreadsheet and sound file manipulation
          along with calibration image analysis.

   AOred Adaptive Optics reduction package
          AOred is an IDL package written by Jason Marshall and Mitchell
          Troy at JPL (Jet Propulsion Laboratory) for the reduction of
          images obtained with PALAO - the Adaptive Optics System for the
          Palomar 200" Telescope. Last updated January 2000.

   ASCA (Advanced Satellite for Cosmology and Astrophysics) reduction
          software
          An informal set of IDL routines for reduction of ASCA and AXAF
          data written by Andy Ptak at Carnegie Mellon & Tahir Yaqoob at
          Goddard Space Flight Center. Last updated February 1998.

   AIT (Astronomical Institute of Tübingen) IDL software
          The AIT Library includes IDL procedures for analyzing X-ray
          astronomy data, and provides a nice up-to-date interface to the
          IDL Astronomy Library. It also provides access to the TRIPP
          (Time Resolved Imaging PHotometry Package) software, and to
          procedures for time-series analysis.

   ATV Image Display Tool
          ATV is an image display widget written by Aaron Barth (CalTech),
          that is modeled after the SAOimage display package. The current
          version is 1.3, last modified 28-Nov-2000 and includes
          astronomical coordinate tracking, radial profile plots, choice
          of coordinate systems, and the ability to read FITS extensions.

   Big Bear Observatory FITS & JPEG Display Software
          Contains the IDL widget program BBSOFITS to display and process
          FITS and JPEG images. Last updated November 1997.

   CHIANTI: A Database for Astrophysical Emission Line Spectroscopy
          CHIANTI consists of a suite of IDL programs and a database of
          atomic data for calculating synthetic spectra in the region
          between 50 A and 1100 A. This site at the Naval Research
          Laboratory (NRL) includes extensive documentation. Version 3.03
          was released December 2001. The Package for Interactive Analysis
          of Line Emission (PINTofALE) at the Harvard Center for
          Astrophysics (CFA) uses CHIANTI for the analysis of
          spectroscopic data from optically-thin coronal plasmas. Last
          updated 07 December 2001.

   Education and Instruction Astronomy IDL Pages
          Robert O'Connell (U. of Virginia) has written a guide to IDL for
          Astronomers including exercises for class work. Carl Heiles (UC
          Berkeley) has written a set of postscript file tutorials on
          Learning IDL for Astronomy . The University of Oklahoma
          Astronomy IDL Page provides IDL code for astronomy instruction
          at several different levels and for supernovae research.

   Gamma Ray Observatory (GRO) Software:
          Three of the four instruments on GRO include IDL in their data
          reduction packages. The WINGSPAN (WINdows Gamma SPectral
          Analysis) software was written primarily in IDL to analyze data
          from the Burst and Transient Source Experiment (BATSE). The
          IGORE (Interactive GRO/OSSE Reduction Environment) FTP site
          contains IDL data analysis software for the OSSE (Oriented
          Scintillation Spectrometer Experiment). The SKYMAP package
          contains IDL software for analyzing Energetic Gamma-Ray
          Experiment Telescope (EGRET) maps.

   Group K IDL User's Library
          This is a collection of general purpose and high energy
          astrophysics routines written by members of the particle
          astrophysics group at the Stanford Linear Accelerator. A good
          site for mathematics and statistics routines

   HIIphot V5.0 Software
          This IDL software package developed by D. Thilker (NMSU, 2000
          AJ, 120, 3070 ) is designed for accurate photometric
          characterization of H II regions while permitting genuine
          adaptivity to irregular source morphology. HIIphot utilizes
          object recognition techniques to make a first guess at the
          shapes of all sources and then allows for departure from such
          idealized ``seeds'' through an iterative growing procedure.

   IDLAstro Contrib directories
          /beck the neural network classifier procedure nnet.pro and
          training program train_nnet.pro
          /bhill The object-oriented display widgets XCTV, XCTV2, XCTVN
          for roaming, zooming, scaling and examining pixel values in one,
          two or many images (last updated 11-Dec-2001).
          /freudenreich ROBLIB, a set of mathematical and statistical
          procedures for robust data analysis
          /knight LOOK - a (large) widget image display program
          /landsman Programs for converting between IDL V4 parenthesis and
          V5 brackets.
          /malumuth TCTOOL - a widget for optimizing a true-color image
          /maskinterp a package from Joe Harrington (Cornell) giving a
          variety of 2-d bad pixel interpolation methods

   Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) software
          The Instrument Definition Teams for ISO developed their
          interactive analysis software in IDL, and the software and
          documentation can be accessed from the ISO Data Center in
          VillaFranca, Spain. Access to the ISO software in the U.S. is
          available from the Infrared Processing and Analysis Center
          (IPAC) . The ISO Spectral Analysis Package (ISAP) was last
          updated March 23, 2001 (V2.1). The LWS Interactive Analysis
          (LIA) package was last updated Nov 1, 2001 (V10). The ISOPHOT
          Interactive Analysis Package (PIA) was last updated Jan 9, 2001
          (V9.1).

   LACOSMIC (LAplacian COSMIC ray identification) software
          LACOSMIC (Van Dokkum 2001, PASP, 113, 1420) is an algorithm for
          robust cosmic ray identification using Laplacian edge detection.
          IDL code is included at Peter van Dokkum's CalTech website for
          the case of imaging.

   Marc Buie's Astronomy IDL software (CCDPHOT, ITOOL)
          Includes the IDL widget programs CCDPHOT to process CCD data,
          and ITOOL for general image processing, which were developed at
          Lowell Observatory for the processing of solar system CCD
          images. Contains many useful IDL procedures for astronomical
          analysis

   Microwave Background Analysis Software
          The analysis software for the COsmic Background Explorer (COBE)
          was primarily written in IDL and includes extensive
          documentation. Version 4.1 of this software was released in June
          1999. More recently, the COMBAT (Cosmic Microwave Background
          Analysis Tools) Collaboration has developed FORECAST
          (FOREgrounds and CMB Anisotropy Simulation Tools), an IDL
          package to selectively display IRAS/DIRBE data. The IPAC
          Microwave Background Archive (IMBARC) includes a program planner
          for looking at anisotropy scans overlaid over other data. And
          the HEALPIX (Hierarchical Equal Area isoLatitude Pixelisation)
          collaboration includes IDL software for fast and accurate
          statistical and astrophysical analysis of full-sky data sets
          (Version 1.10 updated March 2000).

   MPE IDL Cloudy Environment (MICE)
          An IDL interface written by Hendrik Spoon to the popular
          photoionization code CLOUDY

   Multi-Gaussian Expansion (MGE) Fits to Galaxies New
          An IDL package MGE_FIT_SECTORS written by Michele Cappellari
          (Leiden Observatory), including examples and instructions,
          obtain an efficient MGE parameterization for a galaxy surface
          brightness.

   NICMOS (Near Infrared Camera & Multi-Object Spectrometer) Software Site
          at the University of Arizona. Includes widget tools for general
          image display (NICLOOK, IDP3), to edit headers of groups of FITS
          files (FHE), to examine multi-extension FITS files (FITSTOOL),
          Lucy deconvolution (LUCY), and to subtract a PSF. Additional
          software is available at the Space Telescope European
          Coordinating Facility (ST-ECF) NICMOS Page including the widget
          image display program NICMOSLOOK for manual extraction of grism
          images, and the program CalnicC for automated extractions.

   PIXON software distribution site
          The pixon image reconstruction technique has been widely used in
          astronomy, and IDL source code implementing an early version of
          this algorithm is available upon request.

   Small Bodies Node (SBN) at the University of Maryland
          IDL procedures for reading images and tables in the Planetary
          Data System (PDS) format. Last updated 19-Jul-2001.

   Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) IDL Software
          Some researchers from SDSS institutions keep their analysis
          software for SDSS images and spectra publicly available. Eric
          Scott Sheldon maintains the U. of Michigan IDL SDSS library .
          The IDL SDSS software at Princeton can be downloaded as tar
          files, and documentation is available for the IDLSPEC2D and
          IDLUTILS libraries.

   Solar Software Library
          Includes a very large number of general and solar-related IDL
          procedures accessible via FTP . Search pages for these
          procedures are available at the Yohkoh Web Page at Lockheed and
          the SOHO search page . Also, Dominic Zarro has written IDL code
          using object oriented methods for analyzing solar images, and a
          guide to using IDL Sockets to manipulate files over a Web
          server.

   STARFINDER software
          STARFINDER is a well-documented widget package at the
          Osservatorio Astronomico di Bologna for obtaining high-precision
          astrometry and photometry of crowded stellar fields. Requires
          IDL V5.0 or later.

   Stuart's Astronomy IDL Collection
          Stuart Colley at University College London (UCL) makes available
          some of his IDL software dealing with astronomical spectra,
          including procedures for merging echelle orders, Fourier
          CLEANing, and temporal variance spectrum (TVS) analysis. Last
          updated: 16 May 2001.

   Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (UIT) software
          The UIT image display software for the was a precursor to the
          IDL Astronomy Library, but has some additional routines for
          image display and astrometry. Last updated in 1995 so it is
          pretty obsolete.

   Ultraviolet Spectral Analysis Software
          Some of the ultraviolet spectral analysis software (e.g.
          multiple Gaussian fits) might be useful for analysis on other
          types of spectral data. The IUE (International Ultraviolet
          Explorer) Data Analysis Center is probably the oldest (but still
          active) IDL-based data analysis package (last updated June
          1999). The GHRS (Goddard High Resolution Spectrograph:
          http://hrssun.gsfc.nasa.gov/daf/daf.html) IDL software package
          (last updated December 1996) is available for VMS, Unix or PC
          systems, but their Webserver is currently (November 2001) down.
          Most of the IDL software from the STIS (Space Telescope Imaging
          Spectrograph) IDT (Instrument Definition Team) is not made
          available to the public (!?), but one program that is available
          is the the widget program HST_PLANNER, for planning observations
          with the Hubble Space Telescope (HST). The FUSE (Far Ultraviolet
          Spectrographic Explorer) IDL software includes some excellent
          general useful tools for the analysis of 1-d spectra (last
          updated 5-Apr-2001). The FUSE IDL software documentation was
          last updated 14-Feb-2001.

   TARA ( Tools for ACIS Real-time Analysis)
          TARA is an IDL widget which was developed at Penn State
          University for for the pre-launch calibration of the AXAF CCD
          Imaging Spectrometer (ACIS), now aboard the Chandra (formerly
          AXAF) X-ray observatory. Additional software is available to
          correct for the charge-transfer inefficiency (CTI) in the
          in-flight ACIS detectors. Also, the HETG Analysis Kit (HAK)
          software is available for analyzing data from the High-Energy
          Transmission Grating (HETG) aboard Chandra.

   Fred Walter's IDL Software
          This site at the State University of New York (SUNY) at
          Stonybrook includes the ICUR package developed by Fred Walter &
          Jim Neff for the analysis of 1-d astronomical spectra, and a
          package for the photometric reduction of Kitt Peak near-infrared
          images.

   U. of Washington Astronomy IDL Page
          Includes IDL software by Eric Deutsch for general (non-widget)
          image display, deconvolution, and pretty postscript output. Also
          includes a nice search page for many public IDL libraries.

   IDL Astronomy Library Home Page

General Astronomy Sites

   Astronomical Software Directory Service
          Allows users to search on a variety of astronomical software
          packages (including but not limited to IDL)

   FITS Archive at NRAO
          The main source for information about the Flexible Image
          Transport System (FITS) data format, which is widely used in
          astronomy.

   Systems of Time
          This site at the US Naval Observatory explains the time systems
          (e.g. Julian date, UTC) used in astronomy.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Last Modified: 29-Jan-2002


    Wayne Landsman / Science Systems and Applications (SSAI) /
    landsman@mpb.gsfc.nasa.gov
