http://www.gismaps.fema.gov/rs.htm



   [ISMAP:bn_gis.gif]-FEMA.GOV: IT - GIS Team Banner


                                What is GIS?
                            FEMA GIS Development
                         Remote Sensing Information
                                  Feedback

                                Disaster Maps
                                     Latest
                                  Current Year
                                    Archives

                              Current Disasters
                               Project Impact
                                    News
                                 Flood Maps
                    FEMA Mapping and Analysis Center Logo
                                    FEMA
                              500 C Street, SW
                              Washington, D.C.
                                   20472


                     Remote Sensing Information and Data

   During disaster response, the Mapping and Analysis Center (MAC) may
   receive remote sensing data that indicates areas affected by the
   disaster, as derived from various imagery products. Typical examples
   include flooded, saturated, and/or damaged areas. You will find maps
   that use this type of data on many of our map pages.

   The MAC is permitted to share this remote sensing data with the public.
   The primary purpose for making this data available is so that various
   businesses with vested interests, such as insurance agencies, may apply
   it to their particular needs. Only the current year data is made
   available on this site.

   Please note that GIS software is required to use this data.

   Our standard format for sharing this data is MapInfo Interchange Format
   (MIF). MIF data consists of two files, one with a .mif extension and
   one with a .mid extension. MIF data can be directly imported into
   MapInfo or converted into other GIS formats using translators readily
   available from other GIS software vendors.

       click here for an explanation of the file naming and attribute
                         conventions for this data.

                          Click here for the data.

   FOOTER: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

     [ FEMA Home Page | Site Help | GIS Search | GIS Feedback | Privacy
                           Policy | FEMA Library |
