http://www.apfo.usda.gov/orderingimagery.html

   [ISMAP:usda.gif]-USDA Logo and Link to the USDA Home Page
   Link to Aerial Photography Home page

   [ISMAP:orderingimageryblu.gif]-Ordering Imagery header and optional
   link to return to APFO home page


   Shortcut to the 'How To' Guide found on this page.
   Link to PDF versions of the order form and price list. For assistance,
   please call (801) 975-3503 or TDD (801) 975-3502.
   Link to catalogs. Selectable by State in PDF or Text format.
   Link to information on digital imagery products and services.
   Shortcut to Background information found on this page.





   Aerial photographic image of flooded agricultural fields near a river
   in Kansas.

           SALES BRANCH
   USDA FSA APFO
   2222 West 2300 South
   Salt Lake City, UT 84119-2020

        Customer Service
       Telephone: (801) 975-3503
   TDD: (801) 975-3502
   FAX: (801) 975-3532


   | USDA | FSA | RD | NRCS | FS | NASS | Send comments to the webmaster.
   |


   How To Guide header with an optional link to Ordering Imagery, Top of
   Page.

   The Aerial Photography Field Office has the largest source of
   historical and current imagery of the conterminous United States. The
   APFO also retains photographic imagery secured for the Forest Service
   and Natural Resource and Conservation Service in addition to the Farm
   Service Agency. Scale of photography varies from 1:6,000 to 1:80,000,
   all film products are available in black-and-white. Natural color and
   color infra-red products are available for some areas; please refer to
   the catalog for a reference on film types for specific areas of
   coverage.


    ORDERING the order form FSA-441 and price list FSA-441A for additional
   information.
    PAYMENT Prepayment is required. We accept American Express, Discover,
   Mastercard or VISA. Make your check or money order payable to USDA FSA.
   Purchase orders are accepted from tax-supported agencies. Please do not
   send cash or blank checks.
    SHIPMENT We ship the most ecomonical method. No COD's. Shipping costs
   are included in the price of the product.
   Forms available from this site require the Adobe Acrobat Reader v3.0 or
   higher. Click on the Adobe logo to download the application most suited
   to your environment.
             Graphic link to Adobe for download options on Acrobat Reader.
   Adobe Acrobat Reader Text Files

   Background Header and an optional link to Ordering Imagery, Top of
   Page.
       USE OF AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
      Aerial photography is valuable in many ways, it provides precise visual
      information for use in:

     * agriculture

                     *  education

                                   *  soils

     * conservation

                     *  geology

                                   *  development

     * urbanization

                     *  hydrology

                                   *  geography

     * forestry

                     *  land use

                                   *  history

     * assessment

                     *  energy

                                   *  resources

     * recreation

                     *  ecology


   HISTORY OF PHOTOGRAPHY ACQUISITION

   Farmers who participated in farm programs when they began in 1933
   needed to have an accurate measurement made of their farms. However,
   precise measurement then, could only be made in the same way it was
   done in George Washington's day: surveyor's chains were carried around
   fields, and maps were drawn by hand. A quicker, cheaper way had to be
   found since there were millions of acres to measure and map across the
   country.

   In 1935 USDA began to use rectified-to-scale aerial photography to more
   efficiently measure acreage. Today, APFO has aerial photomaps which
   cover all the Nation's major cropland. Aerial photography dating from
   1955 to the present is currently available through the APFO. The aerial
   photography libraried at the APFO is primarily in a 9x9" film negative
   format and covers much of the conterminous United States. Digital
   imagery is currently being archived and developed at the APFO to meet
   USDA Service Center requirements; imagery in hardcopy format from a
   digital source is available for selected areas of the United States.
   The following link is an Adobe PDF file that contains the historical
   alpha symbol or fipscode that reference a State and County. This file
   is a useful tool if you have aerial photography you can't identify.
   ALPHA_FIPS Reference

   RECTIFIED PHOTOGRAPHY

   Vertical imagery is used for rectified aerial photography. Actual
   flying and photographing of land is done by private companies on a
   contractual basis. The camera is mounted so that it points straight
   down from the aircraft. Since the aircraft is constantly affected by
   wind currents, changing ground elevation, and the motion of the
   aircraft during flight, the camera is often at an angle off the true
   vertical. The resulting photo is tilted. This distortion must be
   compensated for in order to obtain rectified (accurate/true-to-scale)
   photographs.

   Correction is accomplished by a system of analytical aerotriangulation
   which measures known points on a photo and mathematically computes
   scale and tilt data necessary for scale-accurate photos.

   This data is then used when making scaled enlargements on specialized
   rectifying enlargers and maintains an accuracy greater than 99% for
   most cropland. The final rectified aerial photograph is, in effect, a
   photographic map accurately representing ground features.
