http://www.tas.noaa.gov/apply.html

                            NOAA's Teacher at Sea
        Bringing hands-on ocean research experience to the classroom
                    Link to Information about the Program
                        Link to Stories and Pictures
                              Link to home page
                     Link to information about the ships

                        How to Apply and Requirements

   Though most teachers take advantage of the program during the summer,
   cruises are available throughout most of the year on a space-available
   basis. Cruises range from one week to several months. Teachers on
   sabbatical may have the option to go on an extended cruise; in recent
   years, two have participated in cruises going to Australia and Japan,
   giving them a wealth of experience in global climate and air chemistry
   research.

   As a Teacher at Sea, you will be expected to:
     * pay transportation costs to and from the docking sites
     * provide evidence of good health as determined by a completed
       medical history
     * submit a report to the NOAA Education Office detailing the cruise
       events and ideas for implementation in the classroom
     * create a mini-unit of lessons based on the experiences at sea
     * submit an article for publication OR conduct a presentation at an
       educators' conference for colleagues. If you choose the option of
       writing an article, we encourage submission to publications such as
       "CURRENT," "The Science Teacher" or "Clearing"

   Teachers will be assigned to a vessel on a space-available basis only.
   They will work with the scientific team under the direction of the
   Chief Scientist, and the ship's Captain. Independent scientific
   projects must be coordinated with the Chief Scientist.

   NOAA is not responsible for any transportation costs. University
   independent study credits are available. The tuition will be your
   responsibility.

   To apply for the Teacher at Sea Program, you may complete the forms
   on-line and print them or print them to fill them out by hand and mail
   them to the Teacher at Sea Office at the address below. PLEASE NOTE: If
   you fill in the forms on-line, you will not be able to save the
   completed form unless you have the full Adobe Acrobat program, not just
   the free Acrobat Reader). Applications and support materials for the
   program must be postmarked at least three months prior to the sailing
   date.
     * Participant's Application Forms in PDF format.
          + Form A - Participant's Application
          + Form B - Administrator's Recommendation
          + Form C - Colleague's Recommendation
     * NOAA Health Services Questionnaire in PDF format. Instructions
       (HTML format) for the Health Services Questionnaire (html)

   Get the free Adobe Acrobat Reader to view and read the Portable
   Document Format file.

   If you would prefer, an application can be mailed to you. Send an
   e-mail to Judy Sohl, the Program Coordinator, with your name and
   mailing address and state in the message that you are requesting an
   application package.

   For information about the ships, the mission descriptions, and cruise
   dates, visit the Ships page.

   General Shipboard Policy Information contains useful information about
   ship policies, procedures, drills, etc. Some individual ship's pages
   also have further information for visiting scientists about life aboard
   ship. One site supported by the Northeast Fisheries Science Center has
   a very useful manual for cruise volunteers and first-time sailors about
   life at sea.

   Teacher at Sea Office Address:


    Teacher at Sea Program
    NOAA - Marine Operations Center, Pacific
    1801 Fairview Ave. E.
    Seattle, WA 98102-3767


                                    NOAA
                               NOAA Education
                                    OMAO
                           NOAA Privacy Statement
                            Contact the Webmaster
                                 Contact the
                             Program Coordinator

                                                             Last Updated:

   December 12, 2001
