http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/regulationspermits.htm

Regulations and Permits Banner

                                                                               Department of Commerce
                                                      National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Home page Headquarters Offices Regional Offices and Science Centers
page Legislation and budget page Publications page Seafood Inspection
Program page Search page Kids korner page



   How are the Federal Living Marine Resources Managed?

       The nation's premier fisheries law, the Magnuson Fishery
   Conservation Act, created eight Regional Fishery Management Councils
   that work in partnership with NOAA Fisheries to manage marine fish
   stocks.  The council membership is a balance of commercial and
   recreational fishermen, marine scientists, and state and federal
   fisheries managers, who combine their knowledge to prepare fishery
   management plans for marine fish stocks in their respective geographic
   areas.   These plans can limit fishing effort, seasons, fishing gear,
   the number of fishermen allowed to fish for a certain species, and the
   total amount of fish that can be caught.  The federal management
   process provides many opportunities for input from fishermen and others
   concerned with the use of these resources.
       Similarly, NOAA Fisheries manages stocks of marine mammals, sea
   turtles, and protected salmon through a planning process that also
   features public comment, and advice from the regional fishery
   management councils.

   How are  Rules and Regulations Made
     * Fisheries Management Council identifies problem and proposes
       alternatives.
     * Council hold public hearings and collects comments
     * Council then reviews, approves fishery management plan or amendment
       and submits it to Commerce Secretary for formal review.
     * Commerce Department published proposed rule on plan or amendment
       and seeks further public comment.
     * Upon further review, Commerce Secretary makes final decision on
       plan or amendment, NOAA Fisheries implements rules.

   What Marine Resource Laws does NOAA Fisheries Follow?

   NOAA Fisheries receives its ocean stewardship responsibilities under
   many federal laws, in addition to the Magnuson Stevens Fishery
   Conservation and Management Act.  Most important are the Endangered
   Species Act, which protects species determined to be threatened or
   endangered; the Marine Mammal Protection Act, which regulates
   interactions with marine mammals; the Lacey Act, which prohibits fish
   or wildlife transactions and activities that violate state, federal,
   and native American tribal, or foreign laws; the Fish and Wildlife
   Coordination Act, which authorizes NOAA Fisheries to collect fisheries
   data on environmental decisions which affect living marine resources;
   and the Federal Powers Act, which allows NOAA Fisheries to minimize
   effects of dam operations on anadromous fish, such as prescribing fish
   passageways that bypass dams.  Many other statutes, international
   conventions, and treaties also guide NOAA Fisheries activities.

   Permits

Tuna Permits     Endangered Species Act
Northwest Region Marine Mammal Protection Act
Southwest Region Steller Sea Lion Research Initiative Permits

Grants  |   Regulations & Permits  |   Research  |   Image Gallery  |
Privacy Statement  |   Disclaimer
NOAA Fisheries, 1315 East West Highway, SSMC3, Silver Spring, MD  20910
