http://www.shuttle.nasa.gov/spacenews/releases/2002/J02-09.html

   [nasanews.gif]

   January 28, 2002

   James Hartsfield
   Johnson Space Center, Houston, TX
   (281) 483-5111

   JSC Note to Editors: J02-09

   NEXT INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION SOYUZ TAXI CREW AVAILABLE TO MEDIA
   FEBRUARY 1 AT JOHNSON SPACE CENTER

   A three-person Russian Aviation and Space Agency "taxi" crew that will
   visit the International Space Station in April will be available to
   media Friday, Feb. 1, at the Johnson Space Center, Houston, TX, as they
   conclude a week of training in the United States.

   Media planning to attend must contact the Johnson Space Center
   newsroom,
   (281) 483-5111, by Noon CST Thursday, Jan. 31, to arrange credentials.
   Transportation on site at JSC will be provided and media should plan to
   arrive at the JSC main gate no later than 1:15 p.m. CST on Friday, Feb.
   1.

   The Soyuz 4 taxi crew includes Commander Yuri Gidzenko, a veteran of
   the station's first expedition crew who will become the first former
   resident to revisit the complex; Flight Engineer and European Space
   Agency Astronaut Roberto Vittori, flying to the station under a
   commercial agreement between the Italian Space Agency and the Russian
   Aviation and Space Agency (Rosaviakosmos); and Space Flight Participant
   Mark Shuttleworth, a South African businessman flying to the station
   under a private commercial agreement with Rosaviakosmos.

   The crew will launch in late April from the Baikonur Cosmodrome,
   Kazakhstan, to deliver a fresh Soyuz spacecraft to the station for use
   as a lifeboat. After spending about a week aboard the outpost, they
   will return to Earth aboard the Soyuz spacecraft now attached to the
   station.

   -END-

   NASA press releases and other information are available automatically
   by sending an Internet electronic mail message to domo@hq.nasa.gov. In
   the body of the message (not the subject line) users should type the
   words "subscribe press-release" (no quotes). The system will reply with
   a confirmation via E-mail of each subscription. A second automatic
   message will include additional information on the service. NASA
   releases also are available via CompuServe using the command GO NASA.
   To unsubscribe from this mailing list, address an E-mail message to
   domo@hq.nasa.gov, leave the subject blank, and type only "unsubscribe
   press-release" (no quotes) in the body of the message.
