http://pajk.arh.noaa.gov/spotter/spot.htm


                           NWS Juneau Spotter Page

   The National Weather Service in Juneau is looking for volunteer
   weather spotters in Southeast Alaska. Volunteer spotters support their
   local community and government by providing the NWS with timely and
   accurate weather reports. These reports, when integrated with NWS
   Doppler Radar signatures, satellite,  and other data, can be critical
   in the issuance of weather warnings and advisories. This can save lives
   and protect property, which is the main mission of the NWS.
   Volunteers help the NWS by reporting thunderstorms, hail, heavy
   rainfall, strong winds, heavy snow, freezing rain, flooding, etc. It
   must be stressed that we are looking for reliable and objective
   reports. When snowfall reports are inflated or hail sizes are
   exaggerated, for example, it can do more harm than good. It is
   imperative that volunteers are available to receive a call from the
   NWS, in the event we feel that something suspicious is happening in
   their area or to ask further questions on a report that you already
   gave to us.

   In order to become an official NWS spotter, you need to attend a
   training session conducted by the NWS. It is about a 2 hour slide and
   video presentation about how to identify and report significant
   weather.

   If you are interested in becoming a volunteer spotter, click on the
   link below and fill out the form. If you have a report to send, click
   on the enter report link.

                               [spotsign.jpg]

                                [entrep.jpg]

                                Train Online

   Weather Information to Report

   Significant or severe weather in Southeast Alaska may include:
    1. Thunderstorms
    2. Waterspouts
    3. Hail
    4. Winds of 40 mph or more
    5. 1/2 inch or more of rain in 1 hour

   Urban and/or small stream flooding:
    1. Roads closed due to high water
    2. Roads impassible due to high water
    3. Small streams overflowing their banks
    4. Land slides

   Winter weather:
    1. Freezing rain or freezing drizzle
    2. Thundersnow
    3. 4 inches of new snowfall in 12 hours

   Also report any unusual weather event

   When making a report, include the following information:
    1. Your name and spotter ID
    2. Location and time of event
    3. What you saw and any damage witnessed

                    [L_hand.gif] Return to our home page
