http://www.ecy.wa.gov/services.html

   Access Washington Department of Ecology Home Page

   Ecology Home
   About Ecology
   Directory
   Public Events
   Laws and Rules
   Publications
   Public Records
   spacer
   Environmental Info.
   spacer
   Services
   spacer
   Programs
   spacer
   Contracting
   Jobs
   Other Links


   Search Contact Us E-Mail Lists Site Information

Ecology's Services

   This page provides access to Ecology's major services, organized by
   business function. Most of these functions cut across the agency's
   principal statutory authorities and major organizational units
   ("Programs").

   Environmental Education
          Classroom curriculum guides, teacher workshops, volunteer
          opportunities, and other resources for students and teachers.

   Technical Assistance
          Various resources and other assistance to support voluntary
          compliance with environmental rules and good stewardship of
          Washington's environmental resources.

   Grants & Loans
          Financial assistance awarded to public entities to support
          environmental management objectives.

   Watershed Planning
          Support of local planning activities to address problems related
          to fish recovery, flooding, stream flows, and water quality.

   Environmental Review (SEPA)
          Review of environmental impacts of proposed projects.

   Permitting
          Issuance of environmental permits, licenses, certifications, and
          other approvals.

   Enforcement
          Actions taken to obtain compliance with environmental laws and
          regulations whenever voluntary compliance cannot be achieved.

   Spill Response
          Response to oil and hazardous-materials spills to minimize risk
          to public health and safety and damage to the environment.

   Site Cleanup
          Identification and cleanup of contaminated sites. Includes
          Sediment Management and Underground Storage Tanks.

   Also see Programs for access to information by Ecology's major
   organizational units and statutory authorities. Also see Watershed
   Planning for access to selected information organized geographically.


     Permit Assistance Center
   Recycling information
   Facility/Site Identification
   Vehicle Emissions
   Watch Over Washington
