http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERA/NA639907.HTML

   [director_header.gif]

                                                         December 21, 1999

   TO: All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT: Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual

   Issuance 99-07

   1. Material Transmitted:

   WSOM Chapter A-63, Service Evaluation.

   2. Summary:

   The chapter has been completely rewritten to reflect changes resulting
   from the modernization and associated restructuring. References to
   Weather Service Evaluations Officers, evaluations at flight service
   stations, and other positions/functions that no longer exist have been
   removed. The new chapter emphasizes interaction with partners and
   customers and suggests strategies for operating a fully integrated
   evaluation program. It also establishes the requirement for a service
   evaluation plan. This plan is one requirement for declaring an office a
   Weather Forecast Office.

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   Supersedes WSOM Chapter A-63, Program Evaluation, Transmittal
   Memorandum 90-1, dated February 23, 1990.

   John J. Kelly, Jr.

   [director_footer.gif]

   WSOM-A-63-99-0
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date Org. Code NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE

                        Operations Manual
                                                Part Chap
   12-21-99   W/OM11
   A          63

   SERVICE EVALUATION

   Table of Contents Page

   1. Purpose

   2. Background

   3. Definitions

   4. Organizational Responsibility

   4.1 Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)

   4.2 Regional Headquarters (RH)

   4.3 Weather Forecast Offices (WFO)

   4.4 National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP)

   5. Evaluation at WSH/RH

   6. Evaluation at WFOs

   6.1 Evaluation at Center Weather Service Units

   (CWSUs)

   6.2 Networking

   7. Evaluation at NCEP

   7.1 NCEP Evaluation for Internal (NWS) Partners

   7.2 NCEP Evaluation for External Partners and

   Customers

   8. Reporting Requirements

   8.1 Report Content

   Appendices:

   A Sample Process for Obtaining Field Office Input

   into a National Requirement for Build Change,

   Policy Development, Etc. A-1

   B Teams B-1

   C Recommended and Preferred Practices C-1

   WSOM Issuance

   1. Purpose. This chapter establishes policy for managing the National
   Weather Service (NWS) service evaluation program. The goal of the
   program is to measure service quality and, with the NWS' partners and
   customers, identify areas to improve the effectiveness of products and
   services.

   2. Background. The success of the NWS mission is related to the quality
   and timeliness of products and services provided by each office. A
   public that more than ever demands quality customer service requires
   the NWS to be responsive to the needs of its partners and customers in
   those areas where the NWS has authority. The various warning programs
   and the product and service suite geared to the public and non-specific
   customer groups are included. An ongoing evaluation program is
   necessary to maintain a high level of service.

   3. Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
   definitions apply.

   Service Evaluation: the process of determining the worth of NWS
   products and services. The determination is made by qualitative and
   quantitative feedback from partners and customers.

   • Qualitative feedback is the value of products and services to
   partners and customers and takes the form of subjective data (comments,
   compliments, complaints, etc.).

   • Quantitative feedback is the utility of products and services to
   partners and customers and takes the form of objective data
   (timeliness, clarity, ease of use, etc.).

   Partner: any individual or group (e.g., Federal Aviation Administration
   (FAA), media, emergency managers, commercial weather industry, etc.),
   inside or outside the NWS, that provides product(s) and/or service(s)
   to the public.

   Customer: an individual member of the public or a group composed of, or
   representing, private citizens. This includes the private sector that
   uses weather information.

   4. Organizational Responsibility. Management of the evaluation program
   shall be in accordance with this chapter with the following exceptions.

   a. Policy for managing the Pilot Weather Briefing Program, and other
   aviation functions formerly assigned to the Weather Service Evaluations
   Officer, are in Weather Service Operations Manual (WSOM) Chapters D-26
   and D-82.

   b. Policy for managing evaluation activities in River Forecast Centers
   (RFCs), Regional Hydrologic Services Divisions, and the Office of
   Hydrology (OH) are in WSOM Chapters E-04, E-05, E-06, E-11, and E-21.

   4.1 Weather Service Headquarters (WSH). WSH establishes policy for
   service evaluation. WSH shall manage a program that results in
   continuous improvement of products and services. This occurs through
   solicitation of opinions, and feedback for requirements, from partners
   and customers.

   As part of this process, WSH shall develop an organized method of
   soliciting field input that ensures recommendations for changes and
   improvements are given serious consideration in the areas of:

   • requirements for new technology,

   • evaluation of the utility of new systems,

   • prioritization of tasks for software modification,

   • evaluation of draft new or revised policy governing the operations of
   the NWS.

   An example of a process for obtaining field input is shown in Appendix
   A.

   WSH shall support innovative efforts by the regions to enhance service
   to partners and customers and, where applicable, shall encourage use of
   teams in the evaluation effort (see Appendix B).

   4.2 Regional Headquarters (RH). Regions are responsible for
   implementing evaluation policy and support innovative efforts by local
   offices to satisfy customer needs. This includes modifying policy in
   coordination with WSH through Regional Operations Manual Letters or
   other directives, suggesting alternate solutions, and facilitating
   dialogue between offices and partners/customers to reach acceptable
   resolutions. However, modifications to standard operating procedures
   shall be governed by instructions contained in WSOM Chapters A-40,
   Service Change Process, and A-06, Policy and Guidelines Governing NWS
   and Private Sector Roles. Examples of local changes that cannot be made
   except through procedures detailed in the above-mentioned chapters
   include product coding and format, and changes to products that would
   impact national partners.

   4.3 Weather Forecast Offices (WFO). Meteorologists in Charge (MICs) are
   responsible for implementing and maintaining a service evaluation
   program at their offices. This program will assist in identifying
   partner and customer needs and will provide guidelines to satisfy these
   needs.

   MICs shall coordinate with their National Weather Service Employees
   Organization steward following guidelines in the Quality Through
   Partnership, and any other applicable agreements.

   4.4 National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). NCEP is
   responsible for running an evaluation program that ensures
   responsiveness to its partners, both inside and outside the NWS, and
   its customers.

   5. Evaluation at WSH/RH. WSH and RH shall hold periodic workshops
   and/or use other methods to interact and cooperate with NWS partners.
   Feedback from partners shall contribute to policy changes and resulting
   service improvements. Where applicable and beneficial, WSH and RH
   should hold joint activities when working with WFOs, NCEP, partners and
   customers.

   6. Evaluation at WFOs. Due to the number of partners WFOs support,
   teams are encouraged to obtain feedback. Each office shall document
   evaluation outreach activities and summarize changes made to products
   and services resulting from partner/

   customer feedback. Based on outreach activities and interaction with
   customers, each office shall be able to summarize the overall level of
   customer satisfaction in the various program areas including: (1) major
   areas of customer concerns, and

   (2) programs/efforts that have been particularly well received.
   Recommended and preferred practices can be found in Appendix C.

   6.1 Evaluation at Center Weather Service Units (CWSUs). CWSU
   evaluations shall focus on internal activities and service to the FAA
   and aviation community. MICs of the CWSU and its associated WFO shall
   collaborate on CWSU evaluation and determine:

   • frequency and scope of evaluation activities;

   • reporting requirements; and

   • the level of support (e.g., staff, training, coordination, etc.)
   provided by the WFO and RH.

   6.2 Networking. WFOs are encouraged to share evaluation successes and
   failures with other offices. Regions should lead in the development and
   maintenance of this information exchange, monitor information flow, and
   publicize the most effective strategies for running a successful
   program. WFOs with national center-type responsibilities in aviation,
   marine, hurricane, and other programs should encourage the exchange of
   information with NCEP.

   7. Evaluation at NCEP. The breadth and scope of NCEP's evaluation
   program, as well as the schedule of evaluation activities, is left to
   the discretion of NCEP management. Evaluation activities should be
   ongoing so partner/customer feedback is continuous and there is prompt
   identification and resolution of problems. Where applicable and
   beneficial, NCEP should hold joint evaluation activities with WSH, RH,
   and/or WFOs that have national center-type responsibilities.

   7.1 NCEP Evaluation for Internal (NWS) Partners. Teams are recommended
   to obtain feedback from the various constituencies in the NWS. NCEP
   shall determine how these constituencies should be grouped, for
   example:

   • meteorology, hydrology, computer science, etc.;

   • aviation, marine, long-range prediction, etc.;

   • WFOs, RFCs, CWSUs, etc.

   Activities to be evaluated shall include but not be limited to:

   • quality and useability of NCEP services, including models, model
   data, and other products;

   • ease of access to NCEP employees;

   • collaborative research efforts; and

   • internal processes leading to more efficient operations.

   NCEP shall also determine the methods whereby evaluations shall be
   accomplished (workshops, visiting scientist programs, etc.).

   7.2 NCEP Evaluation for External Partners and Customers. Workshops or
   other methods of obtaining feedback should be employed on a periodic
   basis to determine:

   • the satisfaction level of external partners and customers with NCEP
   products and services;

   • effectiveness of NCEP-partner relationship in serving customers;

   • ease of access to NCEP employees;

   • quality and utility of NCEP services, including models, model data,
   and other products;

   • improvements in products and services;

   • partner/customer impact on future models, products and services; and

   • other information as determined by NCEP and/or its partners and
   customers.

   NCEP shall also determine the methods whereby evaluations shall be
   accomplished.

   8. Reporting Requirements. NCEP and RH shall provide a concise written
   report to the Office of Meteorology (OM), Customer Service Core, at the
   same time reports are due to WSH in support of the NWS Annual Operating
   Plan.

   Report format shall follow the outline in section 8.1. When the Regions
   determine that WSH action is required to resolve problems not addressed
   through other channels, they shall be identified in the report. OM
   shall assign these actions to appropriate NWS elements and shall track
   problems to resolution. Periodic reports on the status of unresolved
   issues shall be provided to WSH offices, RH, and NCEP.

   Following submission of service evaluation reports, OM shall prepare a
   summary of practices reported by the regions and NCEP for distribution.

   8.1 Report Content. Annual reports shall be concise and summarize
   accomplishments and areas of concern during the past year. Reports
   shall include regional/NCEP trends and issues occurring consistently
   across large parts, or all, of the region or NCEP. Problems uncovered
   by the evaluation process at individual offices or Centers shall be
   addressed by the respective region or NCEP unless the problem is
   national in scope or otherwise requires WSH collaboration.

   The report shall contain:

   a. Innovative evaluation processes/feedback methods used (other than
   normal interaction with customers) and the benefits derived from such
   activities;

   b. Summary of the effectiveness of products, services, programs and
   initiatives. Include a description of any product and/or service which
   is particularly well received by partner/

   customers;

   c. Major concerns or problem areas associated with products and
   services;

   d. Trends, as appropriate; and

   e. Success stories.

   APPENDIX A

   SAMPLE PROCESS FOR OBTAINING FIELD OFFICE

   INPUT INTO A NATIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR BUILD CHANGE,

   POLICY DEVELOPMENT, ETC.

   Step 1 - Team formed at WFO.

   Step 2 - WFO team solicits input from employees.

   Step 3 - WFO team oversees prioritization of input by staff.

   Step 4 - RH form regional team(s) (representatives from WFOs)

   and facilitates development of regional priority

   list(s) from individual field sites.

   Step 5 - WSH and RH form national team (representatives from

   regions) and facilitate development of national

   priority list(s) from regions.

   APPENDIX B

                                    TEAMS

   While this chapter does not mandate the use of teams, the guidelines
   contained herein are written with the philosophy that for the NWS to
   accomplish its mission, team operations in the area of service
   evaluation are, with few exceptions, indispensable. When used in proper
   situations, teams:

   a. empower employees, raise morale through staff ownership of the team
   process, and result in employee buy-in;

   b. enable thorough analysis of problems and provide innovative
   solutions supported by staff;

   c. create an atmosphere of constant improvement that allows an office
   to function with greater efficiency.

   Managers are responsible for forming teams and should provide a charter
   for each team. The charter includes:

   a. a vision (the ideal state for the future);

   b. a mission (clear statement of the issue the team should address and
   goals the team will accomplish);

   c. team membership, including the leader;

   d. scope of authority (decision-making capacity, budget, other
   resources, limitations or constraints);

   e. termination date (project completion);

   f. success criteria (how the team will know it has accomplished its
   mission).

   A sample team charter is shown below. Managers should charter teams for
   a specific time period. Before the termination date, the necessity for
   the team continuing should be determined and, if necessary, a new
   charter issued. In normal circumstances, the need for rechartering is
   for teams addressing ongoing issues on a periodic basis, such as
   customer feedback for a specific program.

   Sample Team Charter

   Vision. WFO XYZ and the media in the CWA will have a close working
   relationship that provides superior service to the public.

   Mission. WFO XYZ Outreach Team will develop a process to provide
   prompt:

   • updates to the media on changes to WFO products services and
   procedures, and,

   • response to media questions and requests.

   Team Membership.

   Bob Black

   Barbara Brown - Team Leader

   George Gray

   Gordon Green

   Wendy White

   Scope of Authority. The team can require all office staff except
   electronic technicians to perform research for the project, not to
   exceed 4 hours per person.

   • The plan must be implemented with no additional office staff.

   • The plan must be implemented with no changes in regional/national
   policy.

   • The team may spend up to $1,000 to plan and implement; the cost of
   operation cannot exceed $1,500 per year.

   Termination Date. Implementation by September 1, 1999. Adjust by
   October 1, 1999.

   Success Criteria. The WFO XYZ Outreach Team will have been successful
   when 70 percent of county warning area media outlets state their
   relationship with the WFO has improved.

   APPENDIX C

                     RECOMMENDED AND PREFERRED PRACTICES

   1. WFO Evaluation (See Section 6).

   a. The Warning Coordination Meteorologist should manage and coordinate
   all evaluation activities, make recommendations to the MIC on enhancing
   the office's evaluation program, and summarize recommended changes to
   products and services for office management.

   b. Obtain evaluation data through feedback from partners and customers
   to determine the level of satisfaction with the office's products and
   services.

   c. When weighing adherence to NWS policy against modifying products and
   services to conform to custom, practice, and need of partners and
   customers in their respective county warning areas, WFOs should seek
   the help of their respective RH. Examples of possible changes to
   products and services include using characteristic terminology or
   wording common in the local area, providing additional avenues of
   personal contact, utilizing non-operational
   dissemination/communications systems (e.g., Internet), etc. Any changes
   shall be coordinated with the RH and shall adhere to directives in WSOM
   Chapter A-40 (section 4.2) and the public/private sector roles detailed
   in WSOM Chapter A-06.

   d. Teams should be used (Appendix B) to develop an ongoing relationship
   with partners and customers so that evaluation feedback is continuous
   and there is prompt identification and resolution of deficiencies.
   Methods of feedback can be face-to-face meetings, workshops, seminars,
   telephone/conference calls, announcements over the National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Weather Radio, mailings, etc.

   2. WFO Internal Evaluation. Internal evaluation covers those areas of
   WFO operations "invisible" to NWS partners and customers and includes
   all activities that support or lead to provision of the office's
   products and services. Normally, internal changes should be driven by
   partner/customer requests or requirements. Changes that result from
   management directive, union negotiation, or employee/team suggestions,
   and have a major impact on products or services, should be discussed
   with partners and customers to ensure no decrease in satisfaction.
   Internal activities and processes chosen for evaluation should be those
   most likely to result in improvements that are readily apparent to
   partners/customers.

   3. WFO External Evaluation. External evaluation covers those areas of
   WFO operations that are "visible" to partners and customers; in most
   cases, this means the products and services the office supplies. The
   following program areas, if applicable, shall be evaluated:

   • public weather,

   • aviation,

   • marine,

   • hydrology,

   • fire weather.

   Other activities for evaluation include but are not limited to:

   • severe weather products and services;

   • office interaction and partnership with the media, emergency
   managers, other government agencies;

   • outreach activities (visiting schools, giving talks, participating at
   boat shows, training of HAM radio operator networks, etc.);

   • NOAA Weather Radio, NOAA Weather Wire Service, Emergency Managers
   Weather Information Network, and other NWS dissemination systems; and

   • public access (ease of use in accessing through digital telephone
   answering systems, visits, etc.).
