http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/ppd/PDF/AHERF_Settlement_Agreement.pdf

   SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT This Settlement Agreement (this "Settlement
   Agreement") is made as of the 15th day of January, 2002 (the "Execution
   Date"), by and among the AHERF Benefit Plans (as that term is defined
   below) and the "Settling Parties," which shall mean, collectively, the
   Settling Claimants, the AGH Affiliates, the Settling Directors and
   Officers, Mellon, and the Settling Insurers (as those terms are defined
   below). INTRODUCTION As used herein, I. Settling Claimants A. Allegheny
   Health Education and Research Foundation and its debtor estate
   (collectively, "AHERF"); Allegheny University of the Health Sciences
   and its debtor estate (collectively, "AUHS"); Allegheny University
   Medical Practices and its debtor estate (collectively, "AUMP");
   Allegheny Hospitals, Centennial and its debtor estate (collectively,
   "Centennial"); and Allegheny University Hospitals-East and its debtor
   estate (collectively, "AUH-E") (AHERF, AUHS, AUMP, Centennial, and
   AUH-E are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "AHERF Estates"),
   and Allegheny Healthcare Services Providers Insurance Company
   ("AHSPIC"). The AHERF Estates and AHSPIC are herein collectively
   referred to as the "AHERF Affiliates." The AHERF Affiliates, together
   with all of their present or former parent companies, affiliates,
   subsidiaries, departments, divisions, predecessors, successors,
   assigns, agents, and representatives, in their capacities as such, but
   excluding the AGH Entities (as that term is defined in Paragraph II
   below), the AUH-W Companies (as that term is defined in Paragraph I.B
   below), the SDN Companies (as that term is defined in Paragraph I.C
   below) and any other Settling Party, shall be collectively referred to
   herein as the "AHERF Companies." B. Allegheny University Hospitals-West
   ("AUH-W"). AUH-W, together with all of its present or former controlled
   affiliates, subsidiaries, departments, divisions, predecessors,
   successors, assigns, agents, and representatives, in their capacities
   as such, which shall not be construed to include any of the AHERF
   Companies, the SDN Companies, the AGH Entities, and/or any other
   Settling Party, shall be collectively referred to herein as the "AUH-W
   Companies." C. SDN, Inc. formerly known as U/G Holding, Inc. ("SDN").1
   SDN, together with all of its present or former controlled affiliates,
   subsidiaries, 1 Unless SDN subsequently becomes a signatory to this
   Settlement Agreement, the Settling Parties and the AHERF Benefit Plans
   acknowledge and agree that SDN is not and may never become a signatory
   to this Settlement CO-1086785v38 departments, divisions, predecessors,
   successors, assigns, agents, and representatives, in their capacities
   as such, which shall not be construed to include any of the AHERF
   Companies, the AUH-W Companies, the AGH Entities, and/or any other
   Settling Party, shall be collectively referred to herein as the "SDN
   Companies." D. William J. Scharffenberger as Trustee of and on behalf
   of the AHERF Estates (the "Trustee") but not in his individual
   capacity. E. The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of the AHERF
   Estates as constituted pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization (the
   "Plan") approved by Order of Court dated December 14, 2000 on behalf of
   the AHERF Estates (the "Committee") but not the members of the
   Committee in their respective individual capacities. Hereinafter, any
   use of the term "member" or "members" in this Settlement Agreement
   shall not include any member or members of the Committee in their
   individual capacity. F. Tenet HealthSystem Philadelphia, Inc.
   ("Tenet"), Philadelphia Health & Education Corp. ("PHEC"), and Franklin
   Health Trust ("FHT") (collectively, the "Philadelphia Endowment
   Claimants"). The Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, together with all of
   their respective present or former parent companies, affiliates,
   subsidiaries, departments, divisions, predecessors, successors,
   assigns, agents, and representatives, in their capacities as such,
   shall be collectively referred to herein as the "Philadelphia Endowment
   Claimant Companies." G. D. Michael Fisher, in his official capacity as
   the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the "Attorney
   General"). H. Stanley Spitzer, M.D., Daniel Mason, M.D., Jerrold
   Schwaber, Ph.D. and Donald Fox, M.D., on behalf of themselves and all
   others similarly situated in the putative class action captioned as
   Spitzer, et al. v. Abdelhak, et al., No. 98 CV-6475 (E.D. Pa.)
   ("Spitzer") other than those individuals who elect to opt out of the
   putative class (collectively, the "Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs").
   The AHERF Companies, AUH-W Companies and the SDN Companies are herein
   individually referred to as an "AHERF Entity" and collectively referred
   to as the "AHERF Entities." Collectively, the AHERF Affiliates, AUH-W,
   SDN, the Trustee, the (continued...) Agreement and that fact shall not
   affect the effectiveness of this Settlement Agreement. However, if SDN
   does not become a signatory to this Settlement Agreement, SDN shall
   nevertheless be deemed to be a party pursuant to the Final Approval
   Order solely for purposes of giving and receiving the releases
   described herein. Unless SDN subsequently becomes a signatory to this
   Settlement Agreement, SDN shall not otherwise be considered to be a
   "Settling Party" as that term is used in this Settlement Agreement.
   CO-1086785v38 2 Committee, the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, the
   Attorney General, and the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs shall be
   referred to herein as the "Settling Claimants." Collectively, the AHERF
   Entities, the Trustee, the Committee, the Philadelphia Endowment
   Claimant Companies, the Attorney General, and the Spitzer Class Action
   Plaintiffs shall be referred to herein as the "Settling Claimants and
   Related Companies." II. Allegheny General Hospital ("AGH"), Allegheny
   University Medical Centers, Allegheny University Medical
   Centers/Canonsburg, Forbes Regional Hospital, Alle-Kiski Medical Center
   and Canonsburg General Hospital, AUMC Canonsburg Ambulance Service, and
   Allegheny Singer Research Institute (collectively, the "AGH
   Affiliates"). The AGH Affiliates, together with all of their respective
   present or former controlled affiliates, subsidiaries, departments,
   divisions, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, and
   representatives, in their capacities as such, which shall not be
   construed to include any of the AHERF Entities or any other Settling
   Party shall be referred to herein as individually, an "AGH Entity" and
   collectively, the "AGH Entities." III. The "Settling Directors and
   Officers," shall mean, collectively: A. Sherif S. Abdelhak ("Abdelhak")
   B. J. David Barnes C. Frank V. Cahouet ("Cahouet") D. Joseph D.
   Dionisio E. Ira J. Gumberg F. Dwight P. Kasperbauer G. David W.
   McConnell ("McConnell") H. Anthony M. Sanzo I. Donald Kaye, M.D. J.
   William P. Snyder, III K. Nancy A. Wynstra ("Wynstra") L. Douglas D.
   Danforth, Sr. M. Harry R. Edelman, III N. Robert L. Fletcher
   CO-1086785v38 3 O. Francis B. Nimick, Jr. P. Thomas H. O'Brien
   ("O'Brien") Q. Robert B. Palmer R. Leonard L. Ross, Ph. D. S. William
   F. Adam T. Dorothy McKenna Brown U. Ronald R. Davenport V. Claire W.
   Gargalli W. Robert M. Hernandez X. Graemer K. Hilton Y. Joseph C.
   Maroon, M.D. Z. Alfred W. Martinelli AA. Donna W. Murasko BB. Paul D.
   Neuwirth CC. Joel Roslyn, M.D. (Estate of) DD. Randall L. Russell EE.
   David W. Sculley FF. Walter L. Williamson GG. Richard P. Shannon, M.D.
   HH. Michael P. Martin II. Charles P. Morrison JJ. Diane K. Schrecengast
   and individually, a "Settling Director or Officer." IV. Mellon Bank,
   N.A. and Mellon Financial Corporation (collectively, "Mellon"). Mellon,
   together with all of its present or former parent companies,
   affiliates, subsidiaries, departments, divisions, predecessors,
   successors, CO-1086785v38 4 assigns, agents, and representatives, in
   their capacities as such, shall be collectively referred to herein as
   the "Mellon Companies." V. Settling Insurers A. Federal Insurance
   Company ("Federal"). Federal, together with all of its present or
   former parent companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, departments,
   divisions, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, and
   representatives, in their capacities as such, shall be collectively
   referred to herein as the "Federal Companies;" B. Executive Risk
   Indemnity Inc. ("ERII"). ERII, together with all of its present or
   former parent companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, departments,
   divisions, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, and
   representatives, in their capacities as such, shall be collectively
   referred to herein as the "ERII Companies;" C. Zurich-American
   Insurance Company, as successor to Zurich Insurance Company (US Branch)
   ("Zurich"). Zurich, together with all of its present or former parent
   companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, departments, divisions,
   predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, and representatives, in
   their capacities as such, shall be collectively referred to herein as
   the "Zurich Companies;" and D. Royal Insurance Company of America
   ("Royal"). Royal, together with all of its present or former parent
   companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, departments, divisions,
   predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, and representatives, in
   their capacities as such, shall be collectively referred to herein as
   the "Royal Companies." Collectively, Federal, ERII, Zurich and Royal
   shall be referred to herein as the "Settling Insurers." Collectively,
   the Federal Companies, the ERII Companies, the Zurich Companies and the
   Royal Companies shall be referred to herein as the "Settling Insurer
   Companies." VI. All benefit programs ever sponsored, operated,
   maintained or administered by any of the AHERF Entities or, before
   August 1, 1999, any of the AGH Entities (the "AHERF Benefit Plans").
   RECITALS WHEREAS, on July 21, 1998, the AHERF Estates commenced
   bankruptcy reorganization proceedings subsequently consolidated under
   the caption In re AHERF, Bankruptcy Case No. 98-25773 MBM through
   98-25777, before the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western
   District of Pennsylvania (the "Bankruptcy Court") and the United States
   District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania (the "District
   Court"); CO-1086785v38 5 WHEREAS, the Committee and the Trustee were
   subsequently appointed in connection with these consolidated actions;
   WHEREAS, SDN is a company formed by certain of AHERF's former officers;
   WHEREAS, claims or potential claims have been asserted by the Trustee,
   the Committee or other Settling Claimants against the Settling
   Directors and Officers, Mellon and/or the Settling Insurers; WHEREAS,
   the Settling Directors and Officers and Mellon have denied liability in
   connection with these claims or potential claims; WHEREAS, the Settling
   Insurers have either denied coverage or reserved rights to deny
   coverage in connection with these claims or potential claims; WHEREAS,
   the Settling Insurers have either raised or have reserved the right to
   raise rescission and other coverage defenses in connection with the
   AHERF Policies (as that term is defined in Section 3.a below); WHEREAS,
   in addition to the Settling Parties, there are other trustees,
   directors, officers and employees of the AHERF Entities and the AGH
   Entities and other organizations and individuals who may fall within
   the definition of "insured persons" under the AHERF Policies, who have
   not been named in any claims, but whose coverage may be affected by
   this settlement; WHEREAS, the litigation of these claims or potential
   claims and of insurance issues related to those claims or potential
   claims would involve numerous complex issues of fact or law, the
   outcome of which is uncertain; WHEREAS, the policy limits in each of
   the AHERF Policies are reduced by payments by the Settling Insurers of
   defense costs and the tremendous costs of continued litigation of these
   claims in these highly complex cases threatens to exhaust all insurance
   policy limits without regard to payment of claims; WHEREAS, the
   Settling Parties desire to settle these disputes in the manner set
   forth herein to avoid the substantial costs, risks and uncertainties of
   litigation; WHEREAS, this settlement affords significant benefits to
   the Settling Parties and certain individuals and entities receiving
   releases, including the Additional Releasors/Releasees, as that term is
   defined in Section 4.j, below; WHEREAS, the Settling Parties desire to
   liquidate any future coverage obligations under the AHERF Policies and,
   with respect only to AHERF Claims (as that term is defined in Section
   3.c below), under any Ancillary Policies (as that term is defined in
   Section 3.d below); CO-1086785v38 6 WHEREAS, nothing in this Settlement
   Agreement shall be deemed to limit or to impair any rights, claims or
   defenses that the Settling Insurers, the Mellon Companies or Cahouet
   may have under or in connection with any policies of insurance issued
   to any of the Mellon Companies; WHEREAS, the AHERF Entities and the AGH
   Entities provided certain protection for officers, directors, trustees
   and others in the form of insurance and corporate indemnification in
   connection with their service on behalf of the AHERF Entities and the
   AGH Entities, the exact scope and nature of which was a subject of
   dispute among the parties; WHEREAS, the Settling Parties recognize that
   the payments contemplated by this Settlement Agreement can only be
   achieved through a settlement that affords continued protection to the
   Settling Directors and Officers, the Mellon Companies, the AGH
   Entities, and the Settling Insurer Companies for costs that might
   otherwise accrue in the future in connection with AHERF Claims or the
   Settled Policies (as that term is defined in Section 3.e); WHEREAS,
   achieving such a resolution depends upon obtaining appropriate orders
   from both the District Court and Bankruptcy Court to carry out the
   purposes of this Settlement Agreement; WHEREAS, the affected parties
   wish to preserve certain claims as specified in this Settlement
   Agreement, including but not limited to the Claims identified on
   Schedule 5B; and WHEREAS, all Settling Parties acknowledge that the
   amounts paid pursuant to this Settlement Agreement, and its terms and
   conditions, including but not limited to, the releases exchanged
   pursuant to this Settlement Agreement, are part of a global resolution
   of complex legal and factual issues, the outcomes of which are
   uncertain, and constitute good and valuable consideration for this
   Settlement Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing
   and the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, and for
   other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
   all of which consideration are hereby acknowledged and agreed by each
   of the Settling Parties and the AHERF Benefit Plans, the Settling
   Parties and the AHERF Benefit Plans, intending to be legally bound,
   hereby agree as follows: 1. Definitions. a. "Additional AHERF Insured
   Release" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.j. b.
   "Additional Releasor/Releasee" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.j. CO-1086785v38 7 c. "AGH" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Paragraph II, above. d. "AGH Affiliates" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Paragraph II, above. e. "AGH Claimant Covered Claim" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 4.i(v). f. "AGH Claimant Joint
   Tortfeasor Release" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.i(v).
   g. "AGH Claimant Releasees"shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.i(i). h. "AGH Claimant Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.i(i). i. "AGH Covered Claim" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Section 4.i(iii). j. "AGH Defendant Releasees" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.h. k. "AGH Defendant Releasors" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 4.h. l. "AGH Entities" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Paragraph II, above. m. "AGH Entity" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph II, above. n. "AGH Escrow"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.a. o. "AGH Joint
   Tortfeasor Release" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.i(iii). p. "AHERF" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.A,
   above. q. "AHERF Affiliates" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph I.A, above. r. "AHERF Benefit Plans" shall have the meaning
   set forth in the Paragraph VI, above. s. "AHERF Claim(s)" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 3.c. t. "AHERF Companies" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Paragraph CO-1086785v38 8 I.A, above. u.
   "AHERF Entities" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I,
   above. v. "AHERF Entity" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph
   I, above. w. "AHERF Estates" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph I.A, above. x. "AHERF Insured" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 3.a. y. "AHERF Insureds" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 3.a. z. "AHERF Policies" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 3.a. aa. "AHSPIC" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph I.A, above. bb. "Ancillary Policy" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 3.d. cc. "APA" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.f. dd. "Arbitor" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   6.a. ee. "Attorney General" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph I.G, above. ff. "Attorney General Settlement Amount" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B. gg. "AUH-E" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Paragraph I.A, above. hh. "AUHS" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Paragraph I.A, above. ii. "AUH-W" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Paragraph I.B, above. jj. "AUH-W Companies" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.B, above. kk. "AUMP" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.A, above. ll. "Bankruptcy
   Court" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. mm. "Bond
   Insurance Policy" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 4.f.
   CO-1086785v38 9 nn. "Burstein" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 3.a. oo. "Burstein Coverage" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Section 3.a. pp. "Cahouet Releasees" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 4.k(i). qq. "Cahouet Releasors" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Section 4.l(i). rr. "Centennial" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Paragraph I.A, above. ss. "Civil Fees Settlement Amount"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B. tt. "Claimant AGH
   Releasees"shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.i(ii). uu.
   "Claimant AGH Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.i(ii). vv. "Claimant Insurer Releasees" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 4.c. ww. "Claimant Insurer Releasors" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.c. xx. "Claimant Joint Tortfeasor
   Release" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.l(ii). yy.
   "Claimant Non-Insurer Releasees" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.f. zz. "Claimant Non-Insurer Releasors" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.f. aaa. "Claims Designee" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 8.e(i). bbb. "Claim" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 3.b(i). ccc. "Claims" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 3.b(i). ddd. "CNA" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Section 4.i(iii). eee. "Committee" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Paragraph I.E, CO-1086785v38 10 above. fff. "Committee
   Settlement Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B.
   ggg. "Committee/Trustee Driven Action" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Section 7.a. hhh. "Criminal Defense Fund" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Schedule 2B. iii. "Criminal Fees Settlement Amount" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B. jjj. "Defendant AGH Releasors"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.g. kkk. "Defendant
   Insurer Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.b.
   lll. "Defendant Non-Insurer Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Section 4.e. mmm. "Defendant Releasees" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 4.b. nnn. "Defense Firms" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Schedule 2B. ooo. "District Court" shall have the meaning set
   forth in the Recitals. ppp. "Effective Date" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 12. qqq. "ERII" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph V.B, above. rrr. "ERII Companies" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Paragraph V.B, above. sss. "Escrow Release Order" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 2.a. ttt. "Escrow Termination Order"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.a. uuu. "Estate/AGH
   Indemnified Claim" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.i(vii). vvv. "Estate/O'Brien Indemnified Claim" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.m(iv). CO-1086785v38 11 www. "Excess
   Payments" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B. xxx.
   "Executable Assets" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   7.a(iv). yyy. "Execution Date" shall have the meaning set forth in the
   opening paragraph. zzz. "Federal" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph V.A, above. aaaa. "Federal Companies" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Paragraph V.A, above. bbbb. "FHT" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Paragraph I.F above. cccc. "Final Approval Order" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 11.a. dddd. "Hold Harmless
   Reserve" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.c. eeee.
   "Indirect Releasee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.q(i).
   ffff. "Indirect Releasor" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.q(i). gggg. "Initial Order Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 2.a. hhhh. "Insurance Escrow" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Section 2.a. iiii. "Insurer Mellon Releasors" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Section 4.d. jjjj. "Insurer Releasees" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.a. kkkk. "Insurer Releasors" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 4.a. llll. "Judgment Reduction Claim"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.a(i). mmmm. "Legal
   Counsel Claims" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 11.a.
   nnnn. "Litigation trust" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.i(viii). oooo. "MBIA" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule
   4.f. CO-1086785v38 12 pppp. "Mellon" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Paragraph IV, above. qqqq. "Mellon/AGH Indemnified Claim" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 4.l(iv). rrrr. "Mellon Companies"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph IV, above. ssss. "Mellon
   Covered Claim" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.k(ii)
   tttt. "Mellon Escrow" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.a.
   uuuu. "Mellon Indemnified Claim" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.k(iv). vvvv. "Mellon Joint Tortfeasor Releases" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 4.k(ii). wwww. "Mellon Non-Insurer
   Releasees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.l(i). xxxx.
   "Mellon Non-Insurer Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.k(i). yyyy. "Mellon Proceeds" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 4.k(vi). zzzz. "Mellon Releasees" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.d. aaaaa. "Mellon Releasors" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 4.a(ii). bbbbb. "Net Recovery" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B. ccccc. "Non-Settling
   Insurers" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.q(iv). ddddd.
   "O'Brien Claimant Joint Tortfeasor Releases" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 4.n(ii). eeeee. "O'Brien Covered Claim" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.m(ii). fffff. "O'Brien Claimant Covered
   Claims" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.n(ii). ggggg.
   "O'Brien Joint Tortfeasor Releases" shall have the meaning set
   CO-1086785v38 13 forth in Section 4.m. hhhhh. "O'Brien Non-Insurer
   Releasees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.n(i). iiiii.
   "O'Brien Non-Insurer Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 4.m(i). jjjjj. "O'Brien Proceeds" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 4.m(vi). kkkkk. "O'Brien Releasees" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.m(i). lllll. "O'Brien Releasors" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 4.n(i). mmmmm. "Payments" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 2.a. nnnnn. "Philadelphia
   Endowment Claimant Companies" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph I.F, above. ooooo. "Philadelphia Endowment Claimants" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.F, above. ppppp. "PHEC" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.F above. qqqqq. "Plan" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.E, above. rrrrr. "PNC" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Schedule 4.f. sssss. "Pollack Action"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 11.a. ttttt. "PwC" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 20. uuuuu. "PwC Litigation" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 7.a. vvvvv. "Releasees" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 5. wwwww. "Releasors" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 4.p. xxxxx. "Royal" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Paragraph V.D, above. yyyyy. "Royal Companies"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph V.D, above. zzzzz. "RPC"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.b(i)(A). CO-1086785v38 14
   aaaaaa. "Sale Orders" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.f.
   bbbbbb. "SDN" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.C, above.
   cccccc. "SDN Companies" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph
   I.C, above. dddddd. "Settlement Agreement" shall have the meaning set
   forth in the opening paragraph. eeeeee. "Settled Policies" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Section 3.e. ffffff. "Settled Policy Claims"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.f. gggggg. "Settling
   Claimant Covered Claim" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.l(ii). hhhhhh. "Settling Claimants" shall have the meaning set forth
   in Paragraph I, above. iiiiii. "Settling Claimants and Related
   Companies" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I, above.
   jjjjjj. "Settling Directors and Officers" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Paragraph III, above. kkkkkk. "Settling Director or Officer"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph III, above. llllll.
   "Settling Insurer Companies" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph V.D, above. mmmmmm. "Settling Insurers" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Paragraph V.D, above. nnnnnn. "Settling Parties"
   shall have the meaning set forth in the opening paragraph. oooooo.
   "Settlement Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.b.
   pppppp. "Settlement Notice Order" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 11.b. qqqqqq. "Spitzer" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Paragraph I.H, above. rrrrrr. "Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs" shall
   have the meaning set forth in paragraph I.H, above. CO-1086785v38 15
   ssssss. "Spitzer Class Settlement Stipulation" shall have the meaning
   set forth in Section 12.d. tttttt. "Spitzer Settlement Amount" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Schedule 2B. uuuuuu. "Tenet" shall have
   the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.F, above. vvvvvv. "Tenet Claim(s)"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.o(i). wwwwww. "Tenet
   Joint Tortfeasor Releasees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.o(iii). xxxxxx. "Tenet Joint Tortfeasor Releases" shall have the
   meaning set forth in Section 4.o(iii). yyyyyy. "Tenet Joint Tortfeasor
   Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.o(i). zzzzzz.
   "Tenet Releasors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.o(i).
   aaaaaaa. "Tenet Releasees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.o(i). bbbbbbb. "Termination Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
   Section 14. ccccccc. "Top 100 Litigation" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Section 7.a. ddddddd. "Transition Services Agreement" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Section 4.i(i). eeeeeee. "Trustee" shall
   have the meaning set forth in Paragraph I.D, above. fffffff. "UCATA"
   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.i(iii). ggggggg. "Western
   Settlement Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
   4.i(i). hhhhhhh. "Zurich" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph
   V.C, above. iiiiiii. "Zurich Companies" shall have the meaning set
   forth in Paragraph V.C, above. 2. Payments. a. No later than the later
   of: (i) January 15, 2002; or (ii) as soon as practicable after the
   payors receive notice that all Settling Parties have executed this
   Settlement Agreement but in no event later than two CO-1086785v38 16
   business days after receipt of such notice (the later date shall be
   hereinafter referred to as the "Initial Order Date"), and subject to
   the other provisions of this Settlement Agreement, the Settling
   Insurers shall pay into an escrow account (the "Insurance Escrow"),
   pursuant to the escrow agreement attached hereto as Schedule 2A(1),
   forty-eight million, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
   ($48,250,000), less any amounts paid to criminal defense counsel
   pursuant to the Order of the District Court dated August 22, 2001 or
   any subsequent orders entered by the District Court. On the Initial
   Order Date, Mellon shall pay the sum of twenty-eight million, five
   hundred thousand dollars ($28,500,000) into an escrow account (the
   "Mellon Escrow") pursuant to the escrow agreement attached hereto as
   Schedule 2A(2). On the Initial Order Date, AGH shall pay into an escrow
   account (the "AGH Escrow"), pursuant to the escrow agreement attached
   hereto as Schedule 2A(3), one million dollars ($1,000,000), and AGH
   agrees to pay to the Attorney General, or into the AGH Escrow if prior
   to the Effective Date, $4,050,000, payable as follows: $1,050,000 on
   the first anniversary of the Initial Order Date and $1,000,000 on each
   of the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the Initial Order
   Date. If the anniversary date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
   holiday, AGH's payments shall be due on the next business day. Upon the
   filing with the District Court of a joint stipulation executed by an
   authorized representative of each Settling Party stating that the
   Effective Date (as that term is defined in Section 12 below) has
   occurred, the District Court shall enter an order in the form attached
   hereto as Schedule 2A(4) (the "Escrow Release Order"); provided that
   nothing herein shall prevent any Settling Party from petitioning the
   District Court to enter the Escrow Release Order on the ground that the
   Effective Date has occurred, and, if such petition is filed, nothing
   herein shall prevent any Settling Party from objecting to the entry of
   Escrow Release Order on the ground that the Effective Date has not
   occurred. Upon entry of the Escrow Release Order by the District Court,
   (x) the Escrow Agent for the Insurance Escrow shall cause all of the
   moneys in the Insurance Escrow to be delivered to the Trustee net of
   escrow-related taxes and expenses, the Escrow Agent for the Mellon
   Escrow shall cause all of the moneys in the Mellon Escrow to be
   delivered to the Trustee net of escrow-related taxes and expenses, and
   the Escrow Agent for the AGH Escrow shall cause all of the moneys in
   the AGH Escrow to be delivered to the Trustee net of escrow-related
   taxes and expenses, and (y) seven million seven hundred fifty thousand
   dollars ($7,750,000) shall be released by the Trustee from the reserve
   maintained by the Trustee in respect of claims asserted by the
   Philadelphia Endowment Claimants and the Attorney General in the AHERF
   bankruptcy case, Case No. 98-25773-MBM through 98-25777- MBM,
   inclusive, consolidated for administration at 98-25773-MBM, such
   payments and released funds initially totaling eighty-five million five
   hundred thousand dollars ($85,500,000) plus accrued interest plus any
   CO-1086785v38 17 additional amounts paid by AGH into the AGH Escrow
   prior to the Effective Date minus any amounts paid to criminal defense
   counsel pursuant to the Order of the District Court dated August 22,
   2001 or any subsequent orders entered by the District Court and net of
   escrow-related taxes and expenses (collectively, the "Payments").
   Within fifteen (15) days of his receipt of all of the Payments, the
   Trustee shall distribute the Payments pursuant to the payment
   instructions described on Schedule 2B. No later than the Execution Date
   (unless the District Court acts sooner upon motion), the Trustee shall
   file a motion requesting that the Bankruptcy Court release the defense
   fees and costs held back pursuant to the Stipulation and Order
   Regarding Payment of Defense Costs entered by the Bankruptcy Court on
   August 10, 1999 and any subsequent Court Orders. Upon the entry of an
   Order declining to enter the Final Approval Order or upon the filing
   with the District Court of a joint stipulation executed by an
   authorized representative of each Settling Party stating that the
   Termination Date (as that term is defined in Section 14 below) has
   occurred, the District Court shall enter an order in the form attached
   hereto as Schedule 2A(5) (the "Escrow Termination Order"); provided
   that nothing herein shall prevent any Settling Party from petitioning
   the District Court to enter the Escrow Termination Order on the ground
   that the Termination Date has occurred, and, if such petition is filed,
   nothing herein shall prevent any Settling Party from objecting to the
   entry of the Escrow Termination Order on the ground that the
   Termination Date has not occurred. Upon entry of the Escrow Termination
   Order, the Insurance Escrow, the Mellon Escrow and the AGH Escrow and,
   in each case, all interest that has accrued thereon, net of
   escrow-related taxes and expenses, shall be returned to the respective
   parties making such payments. In the event that the Effective Date does
   not occur, any advancement of defense fees shall reduce dollar for
   dollar the obligation of the Settling Insurers under the AHERF
   Policies, and such advancements will be made without prejudice to any
   of the Settling Insurers' rights with respect to coverage under the
   AHERF Policies or applicable law. b. The Settling Parties recognize and
   agree that the Committee Settlement Amount (as that term is defined in
   Schedule 2B, below) to be distributed to the Committee pursuant to
   Schedule 2B is paid in consideration for the dismissal of multiple
   lawsuits against multiple parties and for the releases and obligations
   undertaken in this Settlement Agreement. c. AGH shall be in default of
   its obligations under this Settlement Agreement if it fails to make any
   of the payments to the Attorney General when due pursuant to Section
   2.a. The Attorney General may not assign his right to receive the
   payments due from AGH. CO-1086785v38 18 3. AHERF Insureds, AHERF
   Policies, Claims, AHERF Claims, Ancillary Policies and Settled
   Policies. a. The terms "AHERF Insured" and "AHERF Insureds" refer
   respectively to any and all persons or organizations who are insureds
   under any or all of the AHERF Policies. The term "AHERF Policies"
   collectively refers to: Federal Insurance Company Policy No.
   8142-09-21-B issued to AHERF or No. 8146-88-75 issued to SDN; Executive
   Risk Indemnity Inc. Policy No. 752-088601-98 issued to AHERF or No.
   752-138184-98 issued to SDN; Zurich Insurance Company Policy Nos. DOC
   2880629 00 and DOC 2880633 00 issued to AHERF or Policy Nos. DOC
   2852365 01 and DOC 2301756 01 issued to SDN; Royal Insurance Company of
   America Policy No. P SF000426 issued to AHERF, or any extensions,
   continuations or runoff of any of these policies but excludes such
   coverage as may be provided under the "Fiduciary Liability Coverage
   Section" of Federal Policy No. 8142-09-21-B issued to AHERF and any
   other policies that provide coverage specifically in excess of that, as
   such coverage applies or may apply to (i) Claims raised or that may be
   raised in Burstein v. AHERF Retirement Account Plan, No. 98-CV-6768
   (E.D. Pa.) ("Burstein") by the Burstein named plaintiffs or any
   putative class member; (ii) in the event that Burstein is not certified
   as a class action or in the event that putative class members opt out
   of any class certified in Burstein, Claims that meet all of the
   following three conditions: (A) the Claims are asserted by members of
   the putative Burstein plaintiff class; (B) the Claims assert a right to
   a benefit under the Retirement Account Plan for Employees of AHERF; and
   (C) they are Claims as to which the statute of limitations was tolled
   by the initiation of the Burstein action; or (iii) Claims asserted by
   Burstein defendants that are made in the same action or a related
   indemnity or contribution action, and based on the same nucleus of
   operative facts, as the Claims described in (i) or (ii), above. The
   exclusion referenced in the preceding sentence shall be referred to as
   the "Burstein Coverage." b. "Claims" (i) The term "Claim" or "Claims"
   means any and all claims, liabilities, demands, obligations, damages,
   losses, actions and causes of action whatsoever, that any person or
   organization ever had, now has or hereafter can, shall or may have,
   whether liquidated or unliquidated, fixed or contingent, matured or
   unmatured, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, choate or inchoate
   (including but not limited to Claims for indemnity, contribution or
   otherwise), then existing or thereafter arising, in law or equity,
   civil or criminal, seeking damages, attorneys' fees, litigation costs,
   injunctive, contractual, extra-contractual, declaratory or any other
   relief, or brought by way of demand, complaint, cross-claim,
   counterclaim, third-party claim or otherwise. CO-1086785v38 19 (ii)
   Each of the Settling Insurers, each of the Settling Directors and
   Officers, Mellon, the Committee and the Trustee acknowledges that each
   is aware of the effort to develop the list of pending lawsuits
   identified on Schedule 3.b(ii), which is intended to contain all known
   pending lawsuits that are AHERF Claims against an AHERF Insured, and
   any pending lawsuits against any Settling Insurer that would be
   encompassed by Section 8, including but not limited to lawsuits
   asserting bad faith or other improper handling of Claims. Each of the
   Settling Insurers, each of the Settling Directors and Officers, Mellon,
   the Committee and the Trustee, respectively, represents and warrants
   that, in responding to this effort, he/she or, in the case of a
   corporate entity, the person(s) who responded to this effort on its
   behalf, in identifying pending lawsuits against or by him/her/it for
   this list has not intentionally withheld the identity of any such
   lawsuit from any Settling Party that would be obligated to provide
   indemnity for such lawsuits in accordance with this Settlement
   Agreement and that is reasonably unaware of the identity of any such
   pending lawsuit. With respect to the Settling Insurers, Mellon, and the
   Committee, the person(s) who made that response on its behalf is(are):
   For Federal: Margaret M. Klimczyk, Assistant Vice President For ERII:
   Kimberly D. Coran, Assistant Vice President, Senior Claims Examiner For
   Zurich: R. Stacy Lane, Arter & Hadden For Royal: Jan E. Haylett, Esq.,
   Professional & Financial Risks, Senior Technical Claims Specialist For
   Mellon: General Counsel of Mellon For the Committee: Laura E.
   Ellsworth, Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue For the Trustee: Michael E.
   Foreman, Proskauer Rose LLP Nothing in the foregoing representation or
   warranty shall be construed to require any inquiry or investigation or
   to constitute any representation or warranty that an investigation has
   been conducted. In the event that one of the above-stated parties is
   determined by a court of appropriate jurisdiction over disputes arising
   from this Settlement Agreement to have intentionally breached such
   representation and warranty, provided that the failure to conduct any
   inquiry or investigation shall not constitute a breach of this
   representation or warranty, such Settling Party in breach shall be
   liable to any other Settling Party who was reasonably unaware of the
   existence of the lawsuit for the hold harmless obligations incurred or
   loss suffered by that Settling Party because of the failure to disclose
   and such Settling Party in breach shall not be entitled to
   indemnification for that undisclosed Claim under Section 7 if such
   Settling Party is a Settling Director or Officer or Section 8 if such
   Settling Party is a Settling Insurer; CO-1086785v38 20 provided that
   such breach shall not negate any of the releases given and covenants
   exchanged in Section 4 hereto. c. The term "AHERF Claim" or "AHERF
   Claims" shall mean any and all Claim or Claims that arise out of,
   concern, relate to, or are in any way connected with, in whole or in
   part, any of the AHERF Entities or any of the AGH Entities, or any
   individual AHERF Insured, in each case acting in his or her capacity as
   a trustee, director, officer, employee, agent or representative of any
   of the AHERF Entities or any of the AGH Entities or in any other
   capacity in which the individual was or is an AHERF Insured, including
   but not limited to the Claims that have been or could have been raised
   in connection with the matters described on Schedule 3.b(ii) and
   Schedule 5A, any and all Claims arising out of, concerning, in any way
   related to, or in connection with the organization, operation,
   bankruptcy and/or liquidation of the AHERF Entities and/or of the AGH
   Entities, and any and all Claims arising from the investigation, filing
   or prosecution of Claims against the Settling Directors and Officers by
   the Settling Claimants; provided however that this definition of AHERF
   Claims shall exclude any Claims solely to the extent that they allege
   acts or omissions that occurred on or after August 1, 1999, and were by
   one or more of the AGH Entities or by any individual AHERF Insureds
   acting in their respective capacity as a trustee, director, officer,
   employee, agent or representative, or in any other capacity in which
   the individual was or is an AHERF Insured, of any of the AGH Entities;
   provided that such exclusions shall not apply to any Claim made against
   an AGH Entity on or after August 1, 1999 to the extent that such Claim
   arises out of, concerns, relates to, or is in any way connected with,
   in whole or in part, any act or omission by any AHERF Entity or any
   individual AHERF Insured, acting in his or her capacity as a trustee,
   director, officer, employee, agent or representative, or in any other
   capacity in which the individual was an AHERF Insured, of any of the
   AGH Entities, before August 1, 1999. d. An "Ancillary Policy" shall
   mean solely that part of any insurance policy issued by one or more of
   the Settling Insurer Companies that does or is alleged to provide
   coverage for an AHERF Claim against an AHERF Entity, an AGH Entity, or
   an AHERF Insured, acting in his or her capacity as a trustee, director,
   officer or employee of any of the AHERF Entities or of any of the AGH
   Entities; provided however, that, without in any way limiting the term
   "AHERF Policy," the term Ancillary Policy shall not include: (i)
   Policies issued to any of the Mellon Companies; (ii) Steadfast
   Insurance Company Policy Nos. HPC 6869073, HPC 6869074, HPC 6869074-01,
   HPC 6869074-02, HPC 6869074-03, HPC 6869074-04, and HPC 6869074-05,
   PHICO Policy Nos. HCLT 2174 and CO-1086785v38 21 PUPT 0263, and
   Employers Reinsurance Corporation - First Speciality Insurance
   Corporation Policy No. MPC 23547-1; (iii) Policies issued to the
   Philadelphia Endowment Claimants after September 29, 1998, to the
   extent that those policies may provide coverage for wrongful acts that
   may have occurred on or after November 10, 1998; (iv) Policies issued
   to the AGH Entities to the extent that those policies may provide
   coverage for acts or omissions on or after August 1, 1999; (v) Policies
   issued to any of the AGH Entities (prior to August 1, 1999), to any of
   the AHERF Companies, to any of the AUH-W Companies, or to any of the
   SDN Companies to the extent that these policies provide coverage that
   does not arise from AHERF Claims made against insureds thereunder; (vi)
   The "Fiduciary Liability Coverage Section" of Federal Policy No.
   8142-09-21-B, any other policies that provide coverage specifically in
   excess of that Coverage Section, and any other policies in specific
   reference to which notice of Burstein has been provided to a Settling
   Insurer Company, as such coverage applies or may apply to Burstein; or
   (vii) The AHERF Policies. The term "Ancillary Policy" shall include
   policies issued to Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs to the extent that
   these policies provide coverage for matters that concern or relate to:
   (A) any of the events and/or circumstances alleged in or giving rise to
   the allegations in the Spitzer complaint; (B) the organization,
   bankruptcy and/or liquidation of any AHERF Affiliate; or (C) any and
   all acts and/or omissions that were or could have been raised in
   Spitzer. Except for the policies excluded from the definition of
   Ancillary Policy in the preceding clauses, Ancillary Policy as defined
   will include, among the other policies specified above, each insurance
   policy issued by one or more of the Settling Insurer Companies to the
   employer or other business affiliate of each of the Settling Directors
   and Officers and each of the Additional Releasors/Releasees, but only
   to the extent that (i) he or she is or is alleged to be an AHERF
   Insured and (ii) the policy does or is alleged to provide coverage for
   any AHERF Claims. The rights of each such Settling Director and Officer
   and Additional Releasor/Releasee under such Ancillary Policies are
   being released pursuant to Section 4.a and the Additional AHERF Insured
   Releases (as that term is defined in Section 4.j, below), but only with
   respect to AHERF Claims; no other rights thereunder are impaired by the
   terms of this Settlement Agreement. e. The term "Settled Policies"
   shall mean the AHERF Policies and the Ancillary Policies. CO-1086785v38
   22 f. The term "Settled Policy Claims" shall mean (i) all Claims
   arising out of, in any way related to, or in connection with any of the
   AHERF Policies, and (ii) all AHERF Claims arising out of, in any way
   related to, or in connection with any of the Ancillary Policies. g. The
   Settling Insurers shall deliver to the Committee concurrently with the
   execution of this Settlement Agreement full and complete copies of the
   AHERF Policies. 4. Releases. As of the Effective Date, and
   notwithstanding the releasee's compliance or noncompliance with the
   other provisions of this Settlement Agreement, but subject to (i) the
   provisions of Section 4.q, and (ii) the preservation of all Claims
   arising under or from a breach of this Settlement Agreement, none of
   which are released hereby, this Settlement Agreement shall operate to
   provide the following releases: a. Release of Settling Insurer
   Companies. (i) By Settling Claimants and Related Companies, the AGH
   Entities, the AHERF Benefit Plans, and the Settling Directors and
   Officers. Each of the AHERF Affiliates, AUH-W, SDN, the Trustee, the
   Committee, the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, the Attorney General,
   the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs, the AGH Affiliates, the Settling
   Directors and Officers, and the AHERF Benefit Plans, in each case
   acting in his/her/its own behalf and (A) in the case of the Trustee, on
   behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of his and their respective
   present or former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals,
   agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their
   capacity as such, (B) in the case of the Attorney General, on behalf of
   the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and his present or former agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such, (C) in the case of the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs, on behalf
   of the Spitzer class and their present or former agents, attorneys or
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such, (D) in
   the case of the Settling Directors and Officers, on behalf of his or
   her present or former agents, attorneys or representatives, in each
   case acting in their capacity as such, CO-1086785v38 23 (E) in the case
   of the AHERF Affiliates, on behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of
   their respective present or former directors, trustees, officers,
   employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each
   case acting in their capacity as such, (F) in the case of AUH-W, on
   behalf of the AUH-W Companies and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such, (G) in the case of SDN, on behalf of the SDN Companies and each
   of their respective present or former directors, trustees, officers,
   employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each
   case acting in their capacity as such, (H) in the case of the
   Committee, on behalf of its present or former officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting
   in their capacity as such, (I) in the case of the Philadelphia
   Endowment Claimants, on behalf of their respective Philadelphia
   Endowment Claimant Companies and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such, (J) in the case of the AHERF Benefit Plans, on behalf of their
   respective present or former trustees, directors, officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting
   in their capacity as such, and (K) in the case of the AGH Affiliates,
   on behalf of the AGH Entities and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such (collectively, the "Insurer Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits
   and discharges each of the Settling Insurer Companies, and each of the
   respective Settling Insurer Companies' present or former directors,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, reinsurers, attorneys or
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such
   (individually and collectively, the "Insurer Releasees"), of and from
   any and all Settled CO-1086785v38 24 Policy Claims and/or, with the
   exception of Claims arising under or concerning the Burstein Coverage,
   any and all AHERF Claims, provided however that the release of AHERF
   Claims shall not affect in any way the rights and obligations that the
   Insurer Releasees and the Insurer Releasors have under any policies or
   policy provisions that are excluded from the definition of Ancillary
   Policy in Section 3.d, with the exception of Section 3.d(vii) above.
   (ii) By the Mellon Companies. Mellon, acting in its own behalf, and on
   behalf of each of the Mellon Companies, and each of their respective
   present or former directors, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys and representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such (collectively, the "Mellon Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits
   and discharges each of the Insurer Releasees from any and all Settled
   Policy Claims and/or, with the exception of Claims that arise under or
   concern the Burstein Coverage, any and all AHERF Claims, provided
   however that the release of AHERF Claims shall not affect in any way
   the rights and obligations the Insurer Releasees and the Mellon
   Releasors have under any policies or policy provisions that are
   excluded from the definition of Ancillary Policy in Section 3.d, with
   the exception of Section 3.d(vii) above. b. Release of Settling
   Directors and Officers by Settling Insurer Companies. Each of the
   Settling Insurers, acting in its own behalf and on behalf of each of
   their respective Settling Insurer Companies, and each of their
   respective present or former directors, officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting
   in their capacity as such (collectively, the "Defendant Insurer
   Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and discharges each of the
   Settling Directors and Officers and his or her spouse, ex-spouse,
   family members, executors, administrators, personal representatives,
   heirs, agents, representatives and attorneys, but only to the extent
   that such spouse, ex-spouse, family members, executors, administrators,
   personal representatives, heirs, agents, representatives and attorneys
   are derivatively responsible for the act or omission of one of the
   Settling Directors and Officers (individually and collectively, the
   "Defendant Releasees"), of and from any and all Settled Policy Claims
   and/or, with the exception of Claims arising under or concerning the
   Burstein Coverage, any and all AHERF Claims, provided however that the
   release of AHERF Claims shall not affect in any way the rights and
   obligations the Defendant Releasees and the Defendant Insurer Releasors
   have under any policies or policy provisions that are excluded from the
   definition of Ancillary Policy in Section 3.d, with the exception of
   Section 3.d(vii) above. c. Release of Settling Claimants and Related
   Companies, AGH Entities and AHERF Benefit Plans by Settling Insurer
   Companies. Each of the Settling Insurers, acting in its own behalf and
   on behalf of each of their respective Settling Insurer Companies, and
   each of their respective present or former CO-1086785v38 25 directors,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacity as such (collectively, the
   "Claimant Insurer Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and discharges
   each of the Settling Claimants and Related Companies, each of the AGH
   Entities and each of the AHERF Benefit Plans and, with respect to each
   of the Settling Claimants and Related Companies that is an organization
   or entity, each of the AGH Entities and each of the AHERF Benefit
   Plans, each of their respective present and/or former directors,
   trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys, and
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacities as such, and,
   with respect to those Settling Claimants who are individuals, his or
   her spouse, ex-spouse, family members, executors, administrators,
   personal representatives, and heirs, but only to the extent that such
   spouse, ex- spouse, family members, executors, administrators, personal
   representatives, and heirs are derivatively responsible for the act or
   omission of such Settling Claimant, and his/her employees, principals,
   agents, attorneys, and representatives, in each case acting in their
   capacities as such (individually and collectively, the "Claimant
   Insurer Releasees"), of and from any and all Settled Policy Claims
   and/or, with the exception of Claims arising under or concerning the
   Burstein Coverage, any and all AHERF Claims, provided however that the
   release of AHERF Claims shall not affect in any way the rights and
   obligations the Claimant Insurer Releasees and the Claimant Insurer
   Releasors have under any policies or policy provisions that are
   excluded from the definition of Ancillary Policy in Section 3.d, with
   the exception of Section 3.d(vii) above. d. Release of the Mellon
   Companies by Settling Insurer Companies. Each of the Settling Insurers,
   acting in its own behalf and on behalf of each of their respective
   Settling Insurer Companies, and each of their respective present or
   former directors, officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such
   (collectively, the "Insurer Mellon Releasors"), hereby releases,
   acquits and discharges the Mellon Companies and the respective present
   and former directors, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys, representatives, insurers, and reinsurers thereof, in each
   case acting in their capacity as such (individually and collectively,
   the "Mellon Releasees"), of and from any Settled Policy Claim and/or,
   with the exception of Claims arising under or concerning the Burstein
   Coverage, any and all AHERF Claims, provided however that the release
   of AHERF Claims shall not affect in any way the rights and obligations
   the Mellon Releasees and the Insurer Mellon Releasors have under any
   policies or policy provisions that are excluded from the definition of
   Ancillary Policy in Section 3.d, with the exception of Section 3.d(vii)
   above. e. Release of Defendant Releasees by the Settling Claimants and
   Related CO-1086785v38 26 Companies (except the Spitzer Class Action
   Plaintiffs), and the Settling Directors and Officers. Each of the AHERF
   Affiliates, AUH-W, SDN, the Trustee, the Committee, the Philadelphia
   Endowment Claimants, the Attorney General, and the Settling Directors
   and Officers, in each case acting in his/her/its own behalf and (A) in
   the case of the Trustee, on behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of
   his and their respective present or former directors, trustees,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacity as such, (B) in the case of the
   Attorney General on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and his
   present or former agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case
   acting in their capacity as such, (C) in the case of the Settling
   Directors and Officers, on behalf of his or her present or former
   agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their
   capacity as such, (D) in the case of the AHERF Affiliates, on behalf of
   the AHERF Companies and each of their respective present or former
   directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys
   or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such, (E)
   in the case of AUH-W, on behalf of the AUH-W Companies and each of
   their respective present or former directors, trustees, officers,
   employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each
   case acting in their capacity as such, (F) in the case of SDN, on
   behalf of the SDN Companies and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such, (G) in the case of the Committee, on behalf of its present or
   former officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such, (H) in
   the case of the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, on behalf of their
   respective Philadelphia Endowment Claimant CO-1086785v38 27 Companies
   and each of their respective present or former directors, trustees,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacity as such, (collectively, the
   "Defendant Non-Insurer Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and
   discharges each Defendant Releasee, of and from any and all Settled
   Policy Claims and/or any and all AHERF Claims, except for, as
   applicable: (i) any and all Claims arising under or concerning the
   Burstein Coverage; (ii) any and all proofs of claim against the AHERF
   Estates identified on Schedule 5B, provided, however, that no such
   retained proof of claim shall be amended in respect of rights
   surrendered or obligations incurred in this Settlement Agreement; (iii)
   any criminal Claims; (iv) any and all Claims by the Philadelphia
   Endowment Claimants that do not arise out of the same transaction or
   occurrence and nucleus of operative facts as formed or could have
   formed the basis for the Claims in Adversary Proceeding Nos. 00-2089 or
   00-2090, provided that such exception shall not include, and therefore
   each Defendant Releasee is hereby being released, acquitted and
   discharged from, any such Claims that are covered under the AHERF
   Policies or any Ancillary Policy or that otherwise arise against a
   Settling Director or Officer or Additional Releasor/Releasee solely out
   of that individual's service on the board of any of the AHERF Entities
   or the AGH Entities; (v) all Claims concerning the policies of
   insurance issued by Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, Policy No.
   2,519,444 and Maccabees Life Insurance Company, Policy No. 4105-099;
   and (vi) any and all Claims arising from Claims by or on behalf of Dr.
   Donald Kaye, Dr. Joseph C. Maroon, the Estate of Dr. Joel Roslyn,
   and/or Dr. Richard P. Shannon relating to or concerning any medical
   malpractice Claim, medical professional liability Claim, or any Claim
   of a similar nature. f. Release of Settling Claimants and Related
   Companies (except the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs) by the Settling
   Directors and Officers, Settling Claimants and Related Companies
   (except the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs). (i) Each of Settling
   Directors and Officers, the AHERF Affiliates, AUH- W, SDN, the Trustee,
   the Committee, the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, and the Attorney
   General, in each case acting in his/her/its own behalf and (A) in the
   case of the Trustee, on behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of his
   and their respective present or former directors, trustees, officers,
   employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each
   case acting in their capacity as such, (B) in the case of the Attorney
   General on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and his present
   or former CO-1086785v38 28 agents, attorneys or representatives, in
   each case acting in their capacity as such, (C) in the case of the
   Settling Directors and Officers, on behalf of his or her present or
   former agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in
   their capacity as such, (D) in the case of the AHERF Affiliates, on
   behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such, (E) in the case of AUH-W, on behalf of the AUH-W Companies and
   each of their respective present or former directors, trustees,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacity as such, (F) in the case of SDN,
   on behalf of the SDN Companies and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such, (G) in the case of the Committee, on behalf of its present or
   former officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such, (H) in
   the case of the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, on behalf of the
   Philadelphia Endowment Claimant Companies and each of their respective
   present or former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals,
   agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their
   capacity as such, and (collectively, the "Claimant Non-Insurer
   Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and discharges each of the
   Settling Claimants and Related Companies (except the Spitzer Class
   Action Plaintiffs) and, with respect to each of the Settling Claimants
   and Related Companies that is an organization or entity, each of their
   respective present and/or former directors, trustees, officers,
   employees, principals, agents, attorneys, and representatives, in each
   case acting in their capacities as such, and, with respect to those
   Settling Claimants who are individuals, his or her spouse, ex-spouse,
   family members, executors, administrators, personal representatives,
   and heirs, but only to the CO-1086785v38 29 extent that such spouse,
   ex-spouse, family members, executors, administrators, personal
   representatives, and heirs are derivatively responsible for the act or
   omission of such Settling Claimant, and his/her employees, principals,
   agents, attorneys, and representatives, in each case acting in their
   capacities as such (individually and collectively, the "Claimant
   Non-Insurer Releasees"), of and from any and all Settled Policy Claims
   and/or any and all AHERF Claims, except for, as applicable: (1) any and
   all Claims arising under or concerning the Burstein Coverage; (2) any
   and all proofs of claim against the AHERF Estates identified on
   Schedule 5B, provided, however, that no such retained proof of claim
   shall be amended in respect of rights surrendered or obligations
   incurred in this Settlement Agreement; (3) any and all Claims
   concerning those matters set forth on Schedule 4.f; (4) any and all
   Claims concerning the rights and obligations, if any, of Claimant
   Non-Insurer Releasors and/or Claimant Non-Insurer Releasees arising
   under any of the following instruments or associated court orders: (a)
   the Asset Purchase Agreement (the "APA"), by and among AUH-E,
   Centennial, AUMP, AUHS, Diversified Health Group, AHERF, Tenet and
   Tenet Healthcare Corporation, dated as of September 29, 1998, and
   amended November 10, 1998 and related sale orders, dated October 1,
   1998 and October 30, 1998 (the "Sale Orders"); (b) the Grant Escrow
   Agreement, dated November 10, 1998, by and among the parties to the APA
   and Chicago Title Company; (c) the Agreement of Settlement of Issues
   Relating to Accounts Receivable, Grants and Grant Indemnification
   approved by the Bankruptcy Court on October 10, 2000; (d) the December
   7, 1998 Order Granting Motion to Amend Revised Motion No. 98-6293
   Schedule 2.01(e) and any other orders enforcing, interpreting or
   pertaining to the APA or the Sale Orders including any orders, or
   stipulations executed by Tenet or Tenet Healthcare Corporation,
   pertaining to rejection, assumption and assignment of contracts, cure
   reserves and indemnity escrow agreements; and (e) any other agreements
   and/or orders related to the sale transaction contemplated by the APA
   and the Sale Orders; (5) all Claims concerning the policies of
   insurance issued by Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, Policy No.
   2,519,444 and Maccabees Life Insurance Company, Policy No. 4105-099;
   (6) any and all Claims by or on behalf of Dr. Donald Kaye, Dr. Joseph
   C. Maroon, the Estate of Dr. Joel Roslyn, and/or Dr. Richard P. Shannon
   relating to or concerning any medical malpractice Claim, medical
   professional liability Claim, or any Claim of a similar nature; and (7)
   any and all Claims, if any, of the Attorney General against the Trustee
   relating to wrongful distribution of charitable funds entrusted to the
   Trustee on or after August 1, 1999. g. Release of Defendant Releasees
   by the AGH Entities. Each of the AGH Affiliates, in each case acting in
   its own behalf and on behalf of the AGH Entities and each of their
   respective present or former directors, trustees, officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting
   in their capacity as such (collectively, the "Defendant AGH
   Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and discharges each Defendant
   Releasee, of and from any and all Settled Policy Claims and/or any and
   all AHERF Claims. h. Release of AGH Entities by the Settling Directors
   and Officers. Each of the Settling Directors and Officers, in each case
   acting on his/her own CO-1086785v38 30 behalf and on behalf of his/her
   present or former agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case
   acting in their capacity as such (collectively, the "AGH Defendant
   Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and discharges each of the AGH
   Entities and each of their respective present and/or former directors,
   trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys, and
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacities as such
   (individually and collectively, the "AGH Defendant Releasees"), of and
   from any and all Settled Policy Claims and/or any and all AHERF Claims.
   i. Release of AGH Entities by the Settling Claimants and Related
   Companies (except the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs) and the AGH
   Entities; Release of Settling Claimants and Related Companies (except
   the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs) by the AGH Entities. (i) Each of
   the AHERF Affiliates, AUH-W, SDN, the Trustee, the Committee, the
   Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, the Attorney General, and the AGH
   Affiliates, in each case acting in his/her/its own behalf and (A) in
   the case of the Trustee, on behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of
   his and their respective present or former directors, trustees,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacity as such, (B) in the case of the
   Attorney General on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and his
   present or former agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case
   acting in their capacity as such, (C) in the case of the AHERF
   Affiliates, on behalf of the AHERF Companies and each of their
   respective present or former directors, trustees, officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting
   in their capacity as such, (D) in the case of AUH-W, on behalf of the
   AUH-W Companies and each of their respective present or former
   directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys
   or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such, (E)
   in the case of SDN, on behalf of the SDN Companies and each of their
   respective present or former directors, trustees, officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or CO-1086785v38 31 representatives, in
   each case acting in their capacity as such, (F) in the case of the
   Committee, on behalf of its present or former officers, employees,
   principals, agents, attorneys or representatives, in each case acting
   in their capacity as such, (G) in the case of the Philadelphia
   Endowment Claimants, on behalf of the Philadelphia Endowment Claimant
   Companies and each of their respective present or former directors,
   trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or
   representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as such, and (H)
   in the case of the AGH Affiliates, on behalf of the AGH Entities and
   each of their respective present or former directors, trustees,
   officers, employees, principals, agents, attorneys or representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacity as such (collectively, the "AGH
   Claimant Releasors"), hereby releases, acquits and discharges each of
   the AGH Entities and each of their respective present and/or former
   directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys, and representatives, in each case acting in their capacities
   as such (individually and collectively, the "AGH Claimant Releasees"),
   of and from any and all Settled Policy Claims and/or any and all AHERF
   Claims, except for: (1) any and all Claims concerning those matters set
   forth on Schedule 4.f; (2) any and all Claims concerning the rights and
   obligations, if any, of AGH Claimant Releasors and/or AGH Claimant
   Releasees arising under any of the following instruments or associated
   court orders: (w) the Settlement Agreement, by and among AGH, Allegheny
   University Medical Centers, AUH-W, Allegheny Singer Research Institute,
   the Trustee, AUH-E, Centennial, AUMP, AUHS, the Committee and The
   Healthcare Alliance for Western Pennsylvania, Inc., dated as of June
   30, 1999 (the "Western Settlement Agreement"); (x) the Transition
   Services Agreement, by and among AGH, Allegheny University Medical
   Centers, Allegheny Singer Research Institute, the Trustee, and The
   Healthcare Alliance for Western Pennsylvania, Inc., dated as of August
   1, 1999 (the "Transition Services Agreement"); (y) the Bankruptcy
   Court's July 23, 1999 Order approving the Western Settlement Agreement
   or either of Stipulation and Release I and II, entered by the
   Bankruptcy Court on August 4, 1999, in furtherance of the July 23, 1999
   Order and the Western Settlement Agreement; and (z) any other
   agreements and/or orders related to the membership substitution and
   sale transaction contemplated by the Western Settlement Agreement.
   Nothing set forth herein shall constitute a release of any Claims the
   Philadelphia Endowment Claimants may have against the AGH Entities, or
   any Claims the AGH Entities may have against the Philadelphia Endowment
   Claimants, in each case that are unrelated to the Claims asserted in
   Adversary Proceeding Nos. 00-2089 or 00-2090. The Philadelphia
   CO-1086785v38 32 Endowment Claimants represent and warrant that they
   have no claims or causes of action pending or contemplated against the
   AGH Entities or any of them, and the AGH Entities represent and warrant
   that they have no claims or causes of action pending or contemplated
   against the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants or any of them. (ii) Each
   of the the AGH Affiliates, in each case acting on its own behalf and on
   behalf of the AGH Entities and each of their respective present or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys or representatives, in each case acting in their capacity as
   such (collectively, the "Claimant AGH Releasors"), hereby releases,
   acquits and discharges each of the Settling Claimants and Related
   Companies (except the Spitzer Class Action Plaintiffs) and, with
   respect to each of the Settling Claimants and Related Companies that is
   an organization or entity, each of their respective present and/or
   former directors, trustees, officers, employees, principals, agents,
   attorneys, and representatives, in each case acting in their capacities
   as such, and, with respect to those Settling Claimants who are
   individuals, his or her spouse, ex-spouse, family members, executors,
   administrators, personal representatives, and heirs, but only to the
   extent that such spouse, ex- spouse, family members, executors,
   administrators, personal representatives, and heirs are derivatively
   responsible for the act or omission of such Settling Claimant, and
   his/her employees, principals, agents, attorneys, and representatives,
   in each case acting in their capacities as such (individually and
   collectively, the "Claimant AGH Releasees"), of and from any and all
   Settled Policy Claims and/or any and all AHERF Claims, except for: (1)
   any and all Claims concerning those matters set forth on Schedule 4.f;
   (2) any and all Claims concerning the rights and obligations, if any,
   of AGH Claimant Releasors and/or AGH Claimant Releasees arising under
   any of the following instruments or associated court orders: (w) the
   Western Settlement Agreement; (x) the Transition Services Agreement;
   (y) the Bankruptcy Court's July 23, 1999 Order approving the Western
   Settlement Agreement or either of Stipulation and Release I and II,
   entered by the Bankruptcy Court on August 4, 1999, in furtherance of
   the July 23, 1999 Order and the Western Settlement Agreement; and (z)
   any other agreements and/or orders related to the membership
   substitution and sale transaction contemplated by the Western
   Settlement Agreement. Nothing set forth herein shall constitute a
   release of any Claims the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants may have
   against the AGH Entities, or any Claims the AGH Entities may have
   against the Philadelphia Endowment Claimants, in each case that are
   unrelated to the Claims asserted in Adversary Proceeding Nos. 00- 2089
   or 00-2090. The Philadelphia Endowment Claimants represent and warrant
   that they have no claims or causes of action pending or contemplated
   against the AGH Entities or any of them, and the AGH Entities represent
   and warrant that they have no claims or causes of CO-1086785v38 33
   action pending or contemplated against the Philadelphia Endowment
   Claimants or any of them. (iii) In accordance with the terms of the
   Pennsylvania Uniform Contribution Among Tortfeasors Act, 1951, July 19,
   P.L. 1130, as re- enacted by the Act of 1976, July 9, P.L. 586 (42 P.A.
   C.S.A. 8321 et seq.) (the "UCATA"), and without limiting the scope of
   the releases identified in Sections 4.i(i) and 4.i(ii), it is the
   intent of the Trustee, the Committee and the AGH Affiliates that the
   releases set forth in this Section 4.i as between each other shall and
   do provide the broadest possible releases permitted by law and that
   such releases are specifically intended to be joint tortfeasor
   releases, pursuant to the UCATA and the Pennsylvania Comparative
   Negligence Act, 42 Pa. C.S.A.  7102 (the "CNA"). As such, in the event
   that any AGH Affiliate is determined to be a joint tortfeasor under the
   laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with respect to any Settled
   Policy Claim and/or any AHERF Claim initiated, maintained or prosecuted
   by the Committee or the Trustee, as the case may be, whether following
   joinder as a third-party defendant in such action or otherwise, then
   there shall be a reduction in any judgment or award in favor of the
   Committee or the Trustee, as the case may be, in such Claim or action
   to the extent of either (A) the total pro-rata share of liability of
   the AGH Affiliate to the Committee or the Trustee, as the case may be,
   in such Claim or action, or (B) the total share of liability of the AGH
   Affiliate to the Committee or the Trustee, as the case may be, in such
   Claim or action determined pursuant to the UCATA and/or the CNA,
   whichever is the least amount required to extinguish any such Claims
   against the AGH Affiliate by any defendant in such Claim or action that
   both (1) arise from the same transactions or occurrences or common
   nucleus of operative facts as such Claim or action and (2) seek to
   allocate, apportion to or recover from the AGH Affiliate some or all of
   the liability to the Committee or the Trustee, as the case may be, in
   such Claim or action, whether or not such Claim or action seeks
   contribution and/or indemnity under the UCATA, the CNA, or otherwise
   (hereinafter an "AGH Covered Claim"). The releases provided in Sections
   4.i(i), 4.i(iii) and 4.i(iv) (collectively, the "AGH Joint Tortfeasor
   Release") are expressly intended and shall be construed to release and
   protect the AGH Affiliates from all such AGH Covered Claims and to
   require that each of the Committee or the Trustee, as the case may be,
   shall reduce any judgment or award obtained in any such AGH Covered
   Claim by the minimum amount necessary to ensure that, subject to
   Section 4.i(viii) below, no AGH Affiliate shall have any obligation to
   pay any amount to any person on account of such judgment or award. This
   provision in no way constitutes an admission of liability by any AGH
   Affiliate. (iv) It is further agreed that if the UCATA does not apply
   in any AGH Covered Claim and the CNA does apply, then if any AGH
   Affiliate and any CO-1086785v38 34 other defendant in such action are
   adjudged jointly liable, in whole or in part, for damages in that
   action, this AGH Joint Tortfeasor Release shall operate to satisfy all
   liabil
