http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.execsum.pdf

   U.S. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON LIBRARIES AND INFORMATION SCIENCE A
   COMPREHENSIVE ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC INFORMATION DISSEMINATION FINAL
   REPORT: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY JANUARY 26, 2001 The Commission recommends
   that the United States Government formally recognize and affirm the
   concept that public information is a strategic national resource NCLIS
   U.S. National Commission on Libraries and Information Science 1110
   Vermont Avenue, NW, Suite 820, Washington, DC 20005-3552 U.S. National
   Commission on Libraries and Information Science 1110 Vermont Avenue,
   NW, Suite 820, Washington, DC 20005-3552 Telephone: 202-606-9200; Fax:
   202-606-9203; Web: www.nclis.gov The National Commission on Libraries
   and Information Science is a permanent, independent agency of the
   federal government, established in 1970 with the enactment of Public
   Law 91-345. The Commission is charged with: * advising the President
   and the Congress on the implementation of policy; * conducting studies,
   surveys, and analyses of the library and informational needs of the
   nation; * appraising the adequacies and deficiencies of current library
   and information resources and services; and * developing overall plans
   for meeting national library and informational needs. The Commission
   also advises federal, state, and local governments, and other public
   and private organizations, regarding library and information sciences,
   including consultations on relevant treaties, international agreements
   and implementing legislation, and it promotes research and development
   activities which will extend and improve the nation's library and
   information handling capability as essential links in the national and
   international networks. Commissioners and Staff include: Martha B.
   Gould, Chair Joan R. Challinor, Vice Chair C.E. "Abe" Abramson LeVar
   Burton Marilyn G. Mason Walter Anderson José-Marie Griffiths Bobby L.
   Roberts Rebecca T. Bingham Jack E. Hightower Donald L. Robinson
   Paulette H. Holahan James H. Billington, Beverly Sheppard, Librarian of
   Congress Acting Director, Institute of Robert S. Willard Museum &
   Library Services Executive Director Judith C. Russell Deputy Director
   Assessment Co-coordinators: F. Woody Horton Sarah T. Kadec NCLIS
   Consultants A Comprehensive Assessment of Public Information
   Dissemination EXECUTIVE SUMMARY It was a simple announcement on a
   summer day. It appeared to be a straightforward proposal to solve a
   serious problem. Constrained by a statutory requirement for
   self-funding and facing a new paradigm in information dissemination,
   the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) was failing. As
   federal agencies distributed reports at no cost on the World Wide
   Web-reports that formerly NTIS had distributed-NTIS was unable to
   collect revenue sufficient to cover its costs of cataloging and
   maintaining its collection. The proposal put forth in August 1999 by
   the Department of Commerce (where NTIS is organizationally located) was
   to close NTIS and move its collections and functions to the Library of
   Congress.1 The National Commission on Libraries and Information Science
   (NCLIS) immediately recognized this proposal to be far more significant
   than it first appeared. Fundamental issues regarding how the government
   used, disseminated and valued its information resources were at stake.
   The Commission stepped forward and prepared a preliminary assessment of
   the proposed closure of NTIS, which it delivered to the President and
   Congress.2 This report recommended a number of steps to keep NTIS
   operational, but it also stated that a much broader assessment of the
   underlying issues involved in public information dissemination
   throughout government was needed. A number of Congressional leaders in
   both the House of Representatives and the Senate urged NCLIS to prepare
   such a report; Senator John McCain, Chair of the Senate Committee on
   Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and Senator Joseph Lieberman,
   Ranking Democrat on the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, both
   sent letters to the Commission formally requesting a review of reforms
   needed for the federal government's public information dissemination
   practices. This report is the response to those requests. A. THE ROLE
   OF NCLIS The National Commission on Libraries and Information Science
   is an independent agency in the Executive Branch, created by law
   (Public Law 91-345, 20 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) in 1970. Its statute calls
   for it to "advise the President and the Congress on the implementation
   of national policy" pertaining to the library and information needs of
   the people of the United States. Throughout its history, NCLIS has
   addressed government information issues. In 1998, at the request of the
   Government Printing Office (GPO), the Commission surveyed federal
   agencies to 1 U.S. Department of Commerce, "Commerce Secretary William
   M. Daly Announces Intention to Close National Technical Information
   Service," Press Release, Washington, D.C.: Department of Commerce,
   August 12, 1999;
   http://204.193.246.62/public.nsf/docs/FFF05791D63331D1852567CB00693643;
   and U.S. Department of Commerce, "Providing the American People
   Information for the 21st Century: The Commerce Department Proposes to
   Close NTIS and Ensure That People Can Receive Technical Information for
   Free Over the Internet," Fact Sheet, Washington, D.C.: Department of
   Commerce, no date;
   http://204.193.246.62/public.nsf/docs/EA7BD28117EEF74D852567CB006B7D20.
   2 U.S. National Commission on Libraries and Information Science,
   Preliminary Assessment of the Proposed Closure of the National
   Technical Information Service (NTIS): A Report to the President and the
   Congress, Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, March 16,
   2000; http://www.nclis.gov/govt/ntis/presiden.pdf 1 understand how the
   formats, mediums and standards these agencies employed were
   significantly changing as they moved from an era in which most
   government information took the form of ink- on-paper to a time when
   electronic information technology is increasingly used.3 When NCLIS
   received the requests from Senators McCain and Lieberman to perform a
   comprehensive assessment of public information dissemination, it
   started a number of actions. A study plan outline was produced and
   published. Individuals were recruited to form four study panels
   addressing focused aspects of the issue (the NTIS business model;
   federal agency needs for central information services; public needs for
   government information, and; partnerships between the public and
   private sectors for public information dissemination); each panel
   submitted a report on its topic. A group of experts was assembled; many
   of these individuals prepared White Papers in their subject specialty
   and each reviewed various documents as the project progressed. A number
   of past reports dealing with government information were reviewed and
   many were made available to the panel members, experts and interested
   members of the public. A web site devoted to the project was created as
   part of the NCLIS web site and numerous drafts and documents were made
   available electronically through that means.4 The Commission met to
   review the findings, conclusions and recommendations that would
   comprise the assessment report. A public meeting, announced beforehand
   in the Federal Register, provided a members of the public and interest
   groups the opportunity to ask questions and state concerns regarding
   the NCLIS effort. The Commission provided a draft copy of the report to
   the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and OMB further distributed
   the draft to other agencies. Throughout this process, NCLIS received
   statements in support of some findings, conclusions and recommendations
   and others in opposition. The Commission benefited greatly from the
   many comments received throughout the project and incorporated many,
   but not all, of the suggestions received. Nevertheless, this report
   represents the opinions and recommendations of the Commission, not of
   the current or former Administration or any of the stakeholders who
   participated in its development. B. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS Based on
   both its historical efforts and the extensive recent activities, the
   Commission confidently set forth a large number of findings and
   conclusions that describe the current state of government information.
   These observations are explained in detail in the full body of the
   report and are summarized below. Public ownership of information
   created by the federal government is an essential right. It not only
   allows individuals to fulfill their civic responsibilities, but also
   contributes to an overall improvement in their quality of life. Current
   information technology not only brings with it expanded opportunities
   for using government information but also a number of difficulties,
   including adequacy of finding tools, technological incompatibilities,
   and sometimes just the overwhelming amount of information. Government
   agencies are trying to use the World Wide Web to ensure availability of
   information, and emerging efforts in development of indexing tools and
   web portals offer some hope. However, not all needed information is
   available on the Internet nor do users of public 3 Westat, Inc., Report
   on the Assessment of Electronic Government Information Products,
   prepared under a contract issued by the National Commission on
   Libraries and Information Science and commissioned by the Government
   Printing Office, March 1999;
   http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/nclisassessment/report.html 4 The
   Assessment web page is http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.html 2 A
   Comprehensive Assessment of Public Information Dissemination
   information necessarily have the professional skills to use what is
   available in any format. Also, government information made available
   electronically can disappear as quickly as it has appeared. No policy
   is in place for long term or permanent public access to web-based
   public information. Special populations, especially individuals with
   disabilities, but also those who, for whatever reason, find it
   difficult to use computers and computer networks, exist throughout the
   nation. Such populations clearly can benefit from information
   technology but special efforts need to be taken to guarantee the
   availability to them of appropriate information technology and
   government information content. The federal government has a critical
   role in formulating and overseeing public information dissemination
   policy. Hundreds of laws establish the requirement and authority of
   agencies to disseminate public information, but there is little
   distinction made between "passive dissemination" and "proactive
   dissemination." Moreover, the authority of agencies differs widely in
   terms of how broadly they are permitted to disseminate information to
   the public. It is evident that there are costs involved in managing and
   disseminating public information resources, but the manner of paying
   these costs is inconsistent and, at times, invisible across government.
   There are existing central service agencies, such as GPO, NTIS and the
   National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), who, in
   partnership with individual agencies, play a crucial role in
   information dissemination. However, there is no effective enforcement
   mechanism to use when these partnerships fail. There will always remain
   a strong need for central information service agencies, but these
   agencies need new business models that reflect the realities of the
   Internet and the World Wide Web. Overlap and competition among these
   agencies is unnecessary and wasteful. There are efforts to improve
   coordination-for example, through interagency committees-and these
   efforts should be continued and strengthened. Everything that has been
   learned about problems and opportunities affecting federal government
   information is likely to apply to public information at the state and
   local government levels. Such information is just as important to the
   people as is federal government information. However, the
   inconsistencies and incompatibilities among programs at the different
   levels of government need to be eliminated. The private sector plays a
   key role in further distributing public information and enhancing its
   value. This group consists of commercial firms as well as a host of
   libraries and not-for-profit organizations. Both the for-profit and the
   not-for-profit sectors need to strengthen their partnership
   arrangements with government. The approach the United States takes with
   regard to public information is a source of great strength and the
   approach should be widely promoted to all nations around the world. C.
   RECOMMENDATIONS Based on the findings and conclusions, the Commission
   is setting forth thirty-six recommendations. These recommendations are
   stated more fully and discussed in the main body of the report. The
   list that follows is intentionally designed to be a shorthand reference
   and certainly does not capture the subtlety or complexity that the full
   recommendation contains. 3 Strategic Recommendations 1. Adopt the
   national goal that public information is a strategic resource. 2.
   Establish the Public Information Resources Administration (PIRA). 3.
   Include broad, explicit public information dissemination authority in
   all agencies' missions. 4. Implement an Information Dissemination
   Budget. 5. Enact "The Public Information Resources Reform Act of 2001."
   6. Establish the Congressional Information Resources Office (CIRO). 7.
   Establish the Judicial Information Resources Office (JIRO). 8. Extend
   key provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act to the Legislative and
   Judicial Branches. 9. Encourage state, local, and tribal governments to
   adopt comparable policies and programs for their public information
   resources. 10. Retain, temporarily, the National Technical Information
   Service (NTIS) in the Commerce Department. 11. Provide funding for the
   public good functions of NTIS and other comparable information service
   agencies. 12. Update the NTIS business model. 13. Partner with the
   private sector, both forprofit and not for-profit, to perform public
   information disseminations functions. 14. Remove barriers to public
   information for individuals with disabilities and for other special
   populations. 15. Coordinate the information dissemination activities
   among the Legislative, Judicial and Executive Branches. 16. Improve
   training of librarians and other information professionals to better
   assist users of public information. Other Recommendations 17. Implement
   recommendations regarding NTIS in the Commerce Department. 18. Improve
   Congressional oversight of public information dissemination laws. 19.
   Review and harmonize all laws that deal with public information
   resources. 20. Strengthen cooperative efforts to promote public
   information sharing. 21. Improve "Government Information Life-Cycle
   Planning and Management." 22. Modernize current awareness systems for
   public information. 23. Make consistent federal identifiers for
   information across all agencies. 24. Harmonize information identifiers
   at all levels of government-federal, state, local and tribal. 25.
   Evaluate pre-electronic government information for digital conversion.
   26. Develop guidelines regarding the availability of public information
   by branch and level of government. 4 A Comprehensive Assessment of
   Public Information Dissemination 27. Develop a comprehensive inventory
   and database of public information resources. 28. Specify the metadata
   by which agencies classify records prior to archival retention or
   disposal. 29. Partner broadly, in and outside government, to ensure
   permanent public availability of public information resources. 30.
   Identify the public's most critical unmet requirements for public
   information resources. 31. Identify the federal government's most
   critical requirement for technologies to manage public information
   resources. 32. Involve the Office of Science and Technology Policy in
   the effective management of scientific and technical information. 33.
   Monitor cooperation between PIRA and the National Archives and Records
   Administration. 34. Require that data elements set forth in the
   Government Paperwork Elimination Act be reported in XML, and review the
   impact of this requirement regularly. 35. Ensure the availability of a
   trained federal workforce with skills in Internet Age technologies. 36.
   Advance the recommendations of this Assessment report to other nations
   worldwide. It should be emphasized that the foregoing recommendations
   are just that, recommendations. The Commission believes that
   implementation of these recommendations will vastly improve the
   condition of government information dissemination in the United States,
   but it also recognizes that others have different views. It is up to
   the President and Congress, as the recipients of this report, to
   determine whether and to what extent these recommendations should be
   implemented. The Commission stands ready to fulfill its statutory
   obligation to provide advice to the President and Congress in whatever
   way may be helpful. 5 A Comprehensive Assessment of Public Information
   Dissemination is published in 4 volumes. Volume 1 is available in
   electronic form at http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.vol1.pdf and
   in print. It contains the executive summary, the report and Appendices
   1 through 10. Volume 2 is available in electronic form at
   http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.vol2.pdfand in print. It
   contains Appendices 11 and 12, the Legislative and Regulatory
   Proposals. Volume 3 is available only in electronic form at
   http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.vol3.pdf. It contains
   Appendices 13 through 34, the Supplementary Reference Materials. Volume
   4 is available only in electronic form at
   http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.vol4.pdf It contains Appendix
   35, Compilation of Recent Statutes Relating to Public Information
   Dissemination. The Commission web page containing other documents
   related to A Comprehensive Assessment of Public Information
   Dissemination is at http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.html This
   Executive Summary is at
   http://www.nclis.gov/govt/assess/assess.execsum.pdf U.S. National
   Commission on Libraries and Information Science 1110 Vermont Avenue,
   NW, Suite 820, Washington, DC 20005-3552 Telephone: 202-606-9200, Fax:
   202-606-9203; Web: www.nclis.gov
