http://coast2025.nos.noaa.gov/htmls/aboutsite.html

   Coastal Futures 2025
   (top)

   Coastal Futures 2025

                               About This Site

   Background Information

   Everyone is in some sense a coastal steward. We all need to work
   together to protect, restore and enhance the nation's coasts. Ten
   national organizations that are working together to these ends have
   come to be known as the National Dialogue Partners. Their activities
   are called the National Dialogues on Coastal Stewardship.

   The National Dialogue Partners have prosposed a vision of the future
   because they believe that:
     * working together and having common goals leads to better
       understanding.
     * a vision of the future helps each of the partners become a more
       informed and effective coastal steward.
     * a vision enriches our understanding of one another's values, and
       provides a reference to be consulted when economic and
       environmental interests need to be balanced.

   They proposed a vision through a sequence of activities that included a
   national conference on coastal trends, and a national forum on coastal
   stewardship. Information from these activities was relied on by the
   partner organizations as they discussed and drafted comprehensive
   vision statements, including goals and objectives, addressing each of
   eleven major coastal themes.

   This Web site was developed to disseminate and promote the partners'
   vision for America's coasts in 2025 and to stimulate discussion. This
   was a new form of "Town Meeting." The partners encouraged all who care
   about the coast to discuss the vision and to share their own views
   concerning America's coastal future.

   The partners defined a vision as a clear and specific description of a
   desired outcome. The year 2025 was set as the time horizon because it
   represents a time as far into the future as has elapsed since the onset
   of comprehensive coastal planning and management. The partners have
   expressed their vision in terms of national goals and objectives. A
   goal is an aim, an end, the result, achievement or outcome toward which
   effort is directed. Goals need not be quantifiable, nor achievable in a
   defined time-frame. An objective is a quantifiable, definable target or
   outcome. Achieving objectives contributes to reaching goals.
   Consensus--meaning the absence of disagreement--was not important to
   the partners as they discussed the future. Nevertheless, they found
   overwhelming agreement concerning goals and objectives for the future.

   Efforts to inform the public about coastal conditions and to energize
   companies, organizations and even individuals to be informed coastal
   stewards, will become increasingly important. The vision developed by
   the National Dialogue Partners may have widespread implications. Those
   who participate in the "town meeting" have an opportunity to consider
   the implications and the challenges and to work together to address
   them.

   [horizontalbar_sm.JPG]

   Information Kits

   Teachers and others may wish to distribute paper versions of these
   materials. "Information Kits" can be downloaded and include:

     Project Overview: one-page description of Internet Town Meeting.
     Press Advisory: News item suitable for reproduction in newsletters
     and other publications.
     Coastal Futures 2025 (text version): text version of this Web site.

   [horizontalbar_sm.JPG]

   Duration

   This Internet town meeting on America's coasts was an innovative trial.
   It actively collected information from July 1999 through June 2000.


   top

      Coast 2025 Home
