http://ray.eeel.nist.gov/project.html

                                    NIST

                      Device and Package Metrology Project

   Color Line

Project Members:

          Allen Hefner (Project Leader)
          Vance Adams (Univ. Maryland, GRF)
          John Albers
          Herbert Bennett (Part Time)
          David Berning
          David Blackburn
          George Harman (Part Time)
          Yogendra Joshi (Univ. Maryland, GS)
          Alfonso Ortega (Univ. Arizona, FH)


    See NIST Phone Book for Addresses

Need Addressed:

   Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) Roadmap identifies integration
   of component-level electrical, thermal, and mechanical models for
   semiconductor devices and packages, and the availability of calibrated
   and easy-to-use technology-computer-aided-design (TCAD) tools for
   device, process, and circuit simulation as areas requiring development
   and support to achieve the 15-year goals of the Roadmap. Structures and
   operation of devices are advancing rapidly where high performance and
   high efficiency are required. Advanced device electrical and thermal
   characterization procedures and validation of models used in CAD tools
   have not kept pace with the application of the new device types. In
   addition, the high speed, high current density, and high power
   dissipation levels of advanced circuits and devices have increased the
   importance of microelectronic package electrical and thermal
   characteristics to overall system performance.

Technical Approach:

   NIST addresses these needs by developing the theoretical foundations,
   standards, model validation procedures, and associated experimental
   techniques for the measurement of chip temperature, device electrical
   and thermal characteristics, and package electrical and thermal
   characteristics. NIST is developing with industry accepted procedures
   for validating device models for circuit simulation. NIST is developing
   procedures for characterizing the thermal and electrical performance of
   micro-electronic packages that are compatible and useful for CAD of
   boards and systems. The methodology required to accomplish these goals
   will require measurement systems capable of switching 1200 A, 1200 V in
   100 ns, temperature measurement with 1um spatial and 100ns time
   resolution, and ultra-low inductance (< 10 nH) systems.


    For more info email: hefner@sed.eeel.nist.gov

   Color Line

   [back.gif] Return to Al Hefner's Home Page.
