http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1554/0.pdf

   IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
   CIRCUIT Nos. 00-5212, 5213 MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant,
   v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA and STATE OF NEW YORK, et al.,
   Plaintiff-Appellees. __________________ ON APPEAL FROM THE UNITED
   STATES OF DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
   __________________ REPLY TO MICROSOFT'S RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
   FILE BRIEF AMICUS CURIAE Pursuant to the Court's Order of October 26,
   2000, the Project to Promote Competition & Innovation in the Digital
   Age ("ProComp") replies to Microsoft Corporation's ("Microsoft")
   response to ProComp's motion for leave to file a brief in this case as
   amicus curiae. 1 Under Fed. R. App. P. 29(b), a motion for leave to
   file an amicus brief shall state the movant's interest and the reasons
   why an amicus brief is desirable. In its response to ProComp's motion,
   Microsoft has not challenged the fact that ProComp has a unique
   interest in this case. Nor does Microsoft assert that a brief from
   ProComp would not be useful to this Court. Microsoft simply attacks
   some ProComp members for competing against Microsoft and states that
   there is no reason why ProComp cannot coordinate its efforts with other
   trade associations wishing to file amicus briefs. ProComp, similar to
   the Computer & Communications Industry Association ("CCIA") and
   Software and Information Industry Association ("SIIA"), has a strong
   familiarity with the marketplace realities and how Microsoft's actions
   impact the business environment. Microsoft does not deny this fact.
   ProComp also has a unique legal expertise regarding some of the issues
   presented to this Court. In particular, without dismissing the
   importance of the claims under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, ProComp
   will concentrate on monopoly maintenance issues brought under Section 2
   of the Sherman Act. If allowed to file a brief, ProComp will
   distinguish the economic realities of different forms of predation and
   how Supreme Court precedent treats these different forms of predation.
   2 For example, it is worth noting the fallacy of Microsoft's argument
   with respect to predatory pricing because that argument advances a
   rationale said to be applicable to all of Microsoft's behavior. Relying
   on Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 589
   (1986) and Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509
   U.S. 209 (1993), Microsoft has argued that predation is rarely tried
   and is even more rarely successful. A competitor wishing to gain a
   monopoly by predatory price-cutting must expand output to drive the
   market price down and must capture a very high market share. This
   means, where marginal costs are rising, that he will be selling very
   large volumes at a price well below marginal cost, thus incurring
   substantial losses. The intended victim, however, need not expand
   output and may contract it so that he either suffers no loss or suffers
   a loss not only smaller than that absorbed by the predator but one that
   is even proportionally smaller. The predator uses up his financial
   reserves much faster than does his victim, thus illustrating why this
   strategy is seldom tried and even more rarely successful. This analysis
   does not apply when, as in Microsoft's case, the predator need not
   operate at ever higher marginal costs. Microsoft concedes that the
   marginal cost of increasing browser output does not increase its
   marginal costs, which are constant. (The cost curve is flat.) The
   Supreme Court accepts the likelihood that predation will succeed if the
   predator and the victim must spend equal or nearly 3 equal sums in
   waging war. Three cases illustrate the point: Walker Process Equipment,
   Inc. v. Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 382 U.S. 172 (1965);
   California Motor Transport Co. v. Trucking Unlimited, 404 U.S. 508
   (1972); and Otter Tail Power Co. v. United States, 410 U.S. 366 (1973),
   and 417 U.S. 901 (1974). Microsoft has argued further that the prospect
   of recouping losses sustained during a monopolizing campaign is an
   essential element of a violation and that Microsoft did not recoup.
   Microsoft misunderstands the law and economics of this case. A
   competitor seeking monopoly through predation must, if the predator is
   rational, have reasonable expectations that, when rivals are driven
   from the market, it will be able to raise prices sufficiently to
   recover the full amount of the money spent in the struggle plus a
   supracompetitive profit. Matsushita and Brooke Group correctly found
   that the prospects of such recoupment ranged from highly improbable to
   impossible. That reasoning has no application to an incumbent
   monopolist, such as Microsoft, that seeks to repel potential
   competitors in order to maintain its monopoly rather than gain a new
   one. Microsoft sought to dominate the browser market not to gain a new
   monopoly profit but to prevent the appearance of a substitute for its
   operating system monopoly. It succeeded but could not raise prices
   above the monopoly level. What it could and did do was to preserve its
   4 existing monopoly. That is worth the cost of predation even if the
   delay in the onset of rivalry is only temporary. That is not recoupment
   in the usual sense, but it is monopolization in violation of Section 2
   of the Sherman Act. Walker Process Equipment, Trucking Unlimited, and
   Otter Tail Power provide examples both of the tactic and its
   illegality. This form of predation is particularly effective where the
   monopoly-predator need not outspend the potential rival and has
   financial resources far greater than that rival. Both of those
   conditions were met in the case of Microsoft's attack on Netscape.
   ProComp, and its counsel, have been studying these legal and economic
   issues regarding different forms of predation since the filing of the
   complaint in this case. ProComp's expertise in these issues, coupled
   with its strong familiarity with the business realities, will provide
   this Court with valuable analyses of Microsoft's practices. As SIIA
   correctly points out, the details of the brief by any amici will, of
   course, depend to a significant degree on the arguments advanced in
   Microsoft's opening brief. However, to the extent practicable, ProComp
   will cooperate with other amici and the appellees to avoid duplicative
   briefing of issues. 5 For the foregoing reasons, the Motion for Leave
   to File Brief As Amicus Curiae should be granted. Dated: October 31,
   2000 Respectfully submitted, ___________________ Robert H. Bork Counsel
   of Record 1150 17th Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20036 (202) 862-5851
   Mitchell S. Pettit, President ProComp 1133 Connecticut Avenue Suite
   1000 Washington, DC 20036 (202) 775-2376 Kevin J. Arquit Clifford
   Chance Rogers & Wells LLP 200 Park Avenue New York, New York 10166
   (212) 878-8000 Counsel to ProComp 6
