http://www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov/public/planning/rover/

   [jpllogo.gif] Projects: Rover, Planning and Scheduling, Artificial
   Intelligence Group [Nasalogo.gif]

   nothing

   artificial intelligence group [_line.gif] planning and scheduling
   [_line.gif] machine learning systems [_line.gif] jpl [_line.gif]
   caltech [_line.gif] nasa

   [dot.gif] [earth.gif]
   nothing
   background description impact technology status significance problem
   sponsors moreinfo publications the team contacts

   Background top

   Following on the successful Pathfinder mission, NASA/JPL intends to
   continue to explore the surface of Mars and other planets. Mission
   operations for rover missions can be labor-intensive. As rover missions
   become longer and more complex, the need to automate operations
   increases.

   Future rover operations will use WITS to enable scientists to
   participate in planetary lander and rover missions from their home
   institutions, rather than having to physically travel to JPL to
   participate. Currently, the Rocky7 microrover is being used as the
   testbed for new technologies.

   AI Technology top
     * Planning and Scheduling
     * Heuristic Search
     * Iterative Repair
     * Temporal Reasoning

   Problem top

   With the current use of WITS, the scientists make requests without
   detailed knowledge of the operations constraints on the rover. The
   requests may be incomplete, or they may oversubscribe the rover's
   resources. The problem is to automatically generate a sequence of
   low-level rover commands to achieve the set of science requests.

   Impact top

   Automated Planning/Scheduling would impact both the rover science
   planning team and the rover engineering team. First, it would provide
   the science team with immediate feedback on the feasibility of their
   requests, showing necessary additions, deletions, and reorderings. It
   would also allow the scientists to provide the sequencers with a more
   complete request sequence, which would more likely be achievable and
   used for uplink to the rover with minimal modification.

   Status top

   A preliminary demo was given on January 12, 1998.

   A proof-of-concept demo was given on April 15, 1998.

   Description top

   The Artificial Intelligence Group at JPL has been working on a system
   called ASPEN (Automated Scheduling and Planning Environment). Based on
   AI techniques, ASPEN is a modular, reconfigurable application framework
   which is capable of supporting a wide variety of planning and
   scheduling applications. ASPEN provides a set of reusable software
   components that implement the elements commonly found in complex
   planning/scheduling systems, including: an expressive modeling
   language, a resource management system, a temporal reasoning system, a
   set of search algorithms for generating and repairing schedules, and a
   graphical interface.

   The primary application area for ASPEN is the spacecraft/rover
   operations domain. Planning and scheduling rover operations involves
   generating a sequence of low-level rover commands from a set of
   high-level science and engineering goals. ASPEN will encode complex
   rover operability constraints, flight rules, spacecraft and rover
   hardware models, science experiment goals and operations procedures to
   allow for automated generation of low-level rover sequences by use of
   advanced Artificial Intelligence planning and scheduling technology.

   ASPEN is being integrated with WITS to provide a more intelligent tool
   for rover ground operations. WITS is used to visualize the terrain
   around the rover, generate the initial sequence, and to send the final
   sequence to the rover. ASPEN is used to take the initial sequence from
   WITS and generate a more complete and valid sequence to return to WITS.
   A preliminary version of the integrated system has been demonstrated on
   the Rocky7 rover in the JPL Marsyard.

   Significance top

   Automated planning/scheduling technologies have great promise in
   reducing operations cost and increasing the autonomy of rover
   operations. By automating the command sequence generation process and
   by encapsulating the operation specific knowledge, ASPEN will enable
   rover commanding by a small operations team without subsystem experts.
   It will also provide scientists with immediate, more informed feedback
   on the feasibility of their science requests.

   More Information top

     * ASPEN home page
     * WITS home page
     * Long Range Science Rover
     * Rocky7 model
     * Rocky7 schedule
     * Rocky7 demo

   Publications top

   Please Note:
   This material is provided for your personal use only and may not be
   retransmitted or redistributed without permission in writing from the
   paper's publisher and/or author. You may not upload this material to
   any public server, on-line service, network, or bulletin board without
   prior written permission from the publisher and/or author. You may not
   make copies for any commercial purpose. This material is not public
   domain. Reproduction or storage of materials retrieved from this web
   site are subject to the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, Title 17 U.S.C.

   P. Backes, G. Rabideau, K. Tso, S. Chien, "Automated Planning and
   Scheduling for Planetary Rover Distributed Operations," Proceedings of
   the IEEE Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Detroit,
   Michigan, May 1999. (PostScript) (PDF)

   Rabideau, G., Chien, S., Estlin, T., Barrett, A., "Working Together:
   Centralized Command Sequence Generation for Cooperating Rovers,"
   Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference (IAC), Aspen, CO, March
   1999. (PostScript) (PDF)

   IEEE Copyright Notice.
   Personal use of this material is permitted. However, permission to
   reprint/republish this material for advertising or promotional purposes
   or for creating new collective works for resale or redistribution to
   servers or lists, or to reuse any copyrighted component of this work in
   other works must be obtained from the IEEE.

   AAAI Copyright Notice.
   This material is provided for your personal use only and may not be
   retransmitted or redistributed without permission in writing from The
   American Association for Artificial Intelligence. You may not upload
   this material to any public server, on-line service, network, or
   bulletin board without prior written permission from AAAI. You may not
   make copies for any commercial purpose. This material is not public
   domain. Reproduction or storage of materials retrieved from this web
   site are subject to the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, Title 17 U.S.C.

   Contacts top

   ASPEN/Rover Project Contact:
   Gregg Rabideau, AI Group,
   Gregg.Rabideau@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5364

   JPL Technical Contact:
   Dr. Steve Chien, AI Group,
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   JPL Program Contact:
   Dr. Richard J.Doyle, Autonomy TechnologyProgram.
   Richard.Doyle@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5316

   The Project Team top

   Gregg Rabideau
   Gregg.Rabideau@jpl.nasa.gov

   Dr. Steve Chien
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov

   Dr. Paul Backes
   Paul.Backes@jpl.nasa.gov

   Gene Chalfant
   Gene.Chalfant@jpl.nasa.gov

   Kam Tso
   Kam.Tso@jpl.nasa.gov

   Sponsors top

   NASA Code SM

   [jpllogo.gif] Questions: www@www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov
