http://www.chattanooga.gov/mayor/mayorbio.htm

   [TopBanner.gif]


   Home  Events  Links  Search  Photos  What's New  Mayor  Council  Court
                      Chattanooga  Services  Contact Us

                                 MAYOR BOB CORKER

      Mayor Bob Corker graduated from the University of Tennessee in 1974
      with a Bachelor [mayor16.jpg] of Science Degree in Industrial
      Management. He began his career in 1974 as a Project Manager and
      Construction Superintendent until he founded Bencor Corporation in
      1978. Bencor specialized in building retail shopping centers and
      operated in 18 states.

      Over time, the acquisition of real estate and other investments became
      Mayor Corker's business focus and the construction arm of his company
      was sold in 1990. In 1999, he acquired Osborne Building Corporation and
      Stone Fort Land Company, the two largest and most historic real estate
      companies in Chattanooga.

      In 1986, Mayor Corker led the creation of Chattanooga Neighborhood
      Enterprise (CNE), a non-profit, public/private partnership, and served
      as its founding Chairman. Through the hard work of a diverse group of
      community participants, CNE has become a national model for
      neighborhood revitalization, having invested more than $200 million
      dollars and having helped more than 6,000 families in Chattanooga find
      decent, fit and affordable housing.

      In 1995, Mayor Corker was recruited to serve as Commissioner of Finance
      and Administration for the State of Tennessee. There, he was widely
      acclaimed for his ability to bring together people from both sides of
      the aisle to solve problems. Among his responsibilities were the
      preparation and implementation of Tennessee's $13 billion state budget
      and overseeing the general operations of the state.

      In March of 2001, Bob Corker was elected Mayor of Chattanooga, earning
      54% of the vote and a first ballot victory in a crowded field of eleven
      candidates.

      Mayor Corker serves, or has served, on the board of directors of the
      University of Chattanooga Foundation, Chattanooga Housing Authority,
      Chattanooga Neighborhood Enterprise, U.S. Xpress Enterprises, Inc.,
      River City Company, American National Bank and Trust Company, Siskin
      Memorial Foundation, Creative Discovery Museum, Regional Planning
      Agency, Southside Development Corporation, Memorial Hospital, Tennessee
      Housing Development Agency, Chattanooga Venture, Chattanooga Chamber of
      Commerce, Associated General Contractors, the Executive Committee of
      the United Way, the Rotary Club and the Urban League. He is past
      Chairman of the Administrative Board and past Finance Chairman of First
      Centenary United Methodist Church and a past member of the University
      of Tennessee at Chattanooga Chancellor's Roundtable. Mayor Corker is a
      former member of the Governor's Task Force on Low-Income Housing as
      well as a former Trustee of the Tri-State Carpenters' Fringe Benefit
      Fund.

      The Mayor and his family are members of St. Paul's Episcopal Church. He
      and his wife, Elizabeth, and their two daughters, Julia (13) and Emily
      (11) live in North Chattanooga.

      Need to communicate with Mayor Corker? Send him an e-mail at
      Mayor@mail.chattanooga.gov


   Home  Events  Links  Search  Photos  What's New  Mayor  Council  Court
                      Chattanooga  Services  Contact Us
