http://www.csb.gov/lib/chemedbulletin22.pdf

   We All Have About the Chemical Educational Product Stewardship a Vital
   Role in Safety Foundation ®... Bulletin No. 22 Prompt and accurate
   communication is key The Chemical Educational Foundation® (CEF) for all
   parties involved in resolving an inci- is a non-profit organization
   that serves the public dent. Remember: If you are reporting on the and
   the allied chemical industry by promoting scene at an incident, seek
   out the Incident chemical safety and the protection of the environ- The
   News Media's Commander or Public Information Officer. ment through
   educational programs, publications, This will avoid misinformation and
   confusion. and videos. Many of the Foundation's publications Vital Role
   in As citizens, we all have a responsibility to are free. properly
   handle chemicals to prevent accidents Chemical Emergency in the home.
   Chemicals have many benefits to Planning and Response our society. We
   rely on chemicals in almost every facet of our lives including
   medicines, cosmetics, household cleaners, automotive products, paints,
   pesticides and fertilizers. However, if chemicals are mishandled, they
   can pose a risk to health, safety, and the envi- ronment. Whether
   chemical accidents occur at home, at work or on the highway, we all
   have a responsibility to properly use, store, and dis- pose/recycle of
   chemicals to preserve our envi- ronment and well being. CHEMICAL
   EDUCATIONAL F CHEMICAL OUNDATION EDUCATIONAL Chemical Educational
   Foundation FOUNDATION 1560 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1250 Dedicated to
   Product Stewardship- Arlington, VA 22209 The Responsible Management of
   Chemicals Phone: 703/527-6223 Fax: 703/527-7747 Web site:
   www.chemed.org E-mail: comments@chemed.org Photos: Detrick Lawrence The
   News Media - Your Role tion, one or more fire and police departments
   service almost Our Responsibility incidents are less common, but not
   less hazardous. every community. A variety of representatives serve on
   LEPCs All citizens have a responsibility to handle chemicals safely.
   Therefore, manufacturers, distributors, transporters, and including
   chemical employees, police officers, firefighters, edu- Even though
   most people usually don't think about it, all of users of hazardous
   materials are all actively involved in When an emergency happens in any
   community, the news media is usually the public's first source of
   information. Rapid communication of accurate cators, hospital
   representatives, etc. LEPCs and state planning us use chemicals every
   day-household cleaners, medicines, prevention, planning, and
   preparedness activities. information can make a difference.
   Understanding and groups may recruit media representatives to serve as
   members cosmetics, paints, motor oils, fertilizers and pesticides-to
   Transportation incidents, in particular, should involve disseminating
   critical emergency instructions to the because they recognize that the
   media can provide an impor- improve our quality of life. According to
   the American Red the media to let travelers know of alternate routes or
   other public is often the most important, and sometimes the tant link
   with people who live and work in the community. Cross, the most common
   chemical accidents occur in our specific instructions to avoid the
   area. This advance notice most difficult, aspect of emergency response.
   To find out more about these groups go to homes. Knowing how to
   properly use, store, and dispose of can protect additional people from
   potential exposure to a In some cases, emergency responders are faced
   with www.chemed.org/publicat/Bulletins/stew15/stew15.html chemical
   products is important to prevent accidents in the hazardous material.
   Even though a responder's first action the complexities of evacuating
   the public or calling for To locate an LEPC in your area, go to EPA's
   database at home. For more information on chemical safety and emer-
   will be to try to contain the material, there is still the residents to
   shelter-in-place. No matter what the situation
   www.epa.gov/ceppo/lepclist.htm . If you do not see an LEPC gency
   procedures go to chance that persons who are not properly protected
   could - weather alerts, fire, or chemical release - emergency in your
   area, check the white pages under government list-
   http://www.redcross.org/disaster/safety/chemical.html. be exposed.
   Because of this possibility, it is important to broadcast systems and
   live reports from media on the ings/emergencies to find your state or
   local emergency man- For more information on chemicals in your home go
   to understand how to shelter-in-place. scene can be used to ensure that
   the public is sufficiently agement agency, or call the county public
   safety official. http://www.chemed.org/pubs.htm and scroll down to
   Communicating Shelter-in-Place informed about what they must do to
   protect themselves, Media representatives who work on planning
   committees Bulletin No. 7. gain knowledge of the emergency response
   systems. This Because chemicals that are airborne can be moved quickly
   plus where to go in an evacuation. know-how enables them to more fully
   inform the community. Even though many steps can be taken to prevent
   incidents by the wind, emergency planning experts have often rec- In
   emergency situations, radio and television person- The more accurate
   and complete the information is, the more involving chemicals, there is
   always the possibility that an ommended sheltering-in-place in lieu of
   or prior to evacua- nel are invaluable partners in helping to minimize
   con- likely that injuries will be prevented. unwanted event will occur.
   Whether in the home or at work, tion. Sheltering-in-place involves
   making the area you are fusion, rumor, and misinformation, but they
   must also being prepared for these events includes the need to communi-
   in, whether it is a building or a vehicle, safe for you to stay be
   active participants in the planning process. cate promptly and
   accurately. This is why it is so until further instructions are given,
   or the emergency is Preventing important to plan for chemical
   emergencies so we under control. Benefits of the Media's Involvement
   Chemical Accidents can be prepared to properly respond quickly, safely,
   Sheltering-in-place instructions can be given over the in Emergency
   Planning Chemical companies have a and efficiently. radio or television
   to allow people to protect themselves. If responsibility to properly
   handle you are reporting on the scene of an incident, remember to
   Prompt and accurate communication, as most emergency chemicals and to
   safely manage Chemical Emergencies: follow these instructions to
   protect yourself. responders will agree, is an important key to
   effective response. Communication between members of one risks
   associated with chemicals. Contacting the Incident Commander response
   team, between different teams, among various Many chemical companies
   have Chemical emergencies pose unique concerns for emer-
   Shelter-in-Place public service agencies, and, especially, with
   residents are chemical safety procedures built into gency responders.
   Not only do they represent some of all important to a successful
   response their daily operations to the more 1. Get inside a car or go
   inside a building. to an emergency situation. prevent accidents and
   minimize common hazards 2. Close all doors and windows. Public safety
   efforts, even on a daily the impact of accidents. responders face
   basis, depend on the accurate and In the mid-80's, two chemical
   routinely (fire, 3. Turn off air conditioning or heating units that
   dependable transfer of information associations initiated Responsible
   Care® in Canada and traffic jams, physical draw air in from outside.
   between parties. It has been well docu- the U.S. for their chemical
   manufacturing members. injury), but they also 4. Turn on the emergency
   broadcast station in mented that a good emergency plan, Now Responsible
   Care® has been adopted throughout present potential which is well
   understood by all stake- Europe as well. chemical exposures. your area.
   holders, will help protect the public In the early1990s, two chemical
   distributor associa- Because of the poten- 5. Gather all important
   items that you must have from harm. An emergency plan will tions in
   Canada and the U.S. adopted Responsible tial for hazardous material
   contact, responders serving on if an evacuation is started, e.g.
   medicine, baby only be effective if communication Distribution® and the
   Responsible Distribution HazMat teams receive special training to
   enable them to make items, money and identification. concerns are
   thoroughly addressed and Process SM (RDP), respectively, for their
   members. good decisions during actual incidents. executed. These
   initiatives were designed to protect the envi- For all chemical
   emergencies there will be an Incident 6. Prepare to move your children
   and pets if an Most county governments in the ronment, as well as the
   health and safety of the public, Commander (IC) who is in charge of the
   incident and may evacuation is required. United States have formed
   emergency customers, and their employees. For more information delegate
   media briefings to the Public Information Officer planning groups known
   as Local on the Responsible Care® in the U.S., go to www.amer- (PIO). A
   chemical facility may also have a Public 7. Listen carefully to the
   radio or television for Emergency Planning Committees icanchemistry.com
   and in Canada www.ccpa.ca/ . For Information Officer, and any media
   briefings should be further instructions. Evacuation often involves
   (LEPCs). There is also typically a state more information on the
   Responsible Distribution coordinated through the IC or PIO.
   door-to-door notification, so watch and listen and/or local agency
   responsible for cri- Process SM in the U.S. go to www.nacd.com and A
   chemical spill during transportation is the most common for police or
   fire personnel. sis planning and management. In addi- Responsible
   Distribution® in Canada www.cacd.ca/. reason that a HazMat team is put
   into action. Fixed facility
