http://www.rib.uscourts.gov/casedocs.htm

                             [usbcribanner.jpg]

             Information on how to obtain documents in your case
                    Clerk's Office | Court Website | FRC
   Click here to view and print this information in Adobe Acrobat format.

   The United States Bankruptcy Court, District of Rhode Island is please
     to offer the public this information which explains various ways of
     obtaining copies of documents in court cases. Below, you will find
     information regarding the Clerk's Office, the court website and the
                           Federal Records Center.

    NOTICE: Criminal Penalties for concealment, removal or mutilation of
                               court reports.
      Title 18 USC Section 2071(a) provides that: Whoever willfully and
    unlawfully conceals, removes, mutilates, obliterates or destroys, or
    attempts to do so, or with intent to do so takes and carries away any
   record, proceeding, map, book, paper document or other thing, filed or
   deposited with any clerk or officer of any court of the United States,
      or in the United States shall be fined not more than $2,000.00 or
                imprisoned not more than three years or both.

                             The Clerk's Office

     During the course of a case, court documents are maintained at the
    Federal Center, 380 Westminster Street, 6th floor, Providence. Since
      records are open for viewing, members of the public may visit the
    office to view and make copies. The most important aspects to keep in
                                  mind are:
     * There is no fee to request and view your cases if the case is at
       the Clerk's Office.
     * Cases filed previous to 1998 are held at the Clerk's Office for 2
       years after the closing of the case. (These cases are maintained at
       the Clerk's Office as space permits, therefore we strongly suggest
       that you call before visiting the Clerk's Office).
     * Imaged copies of documents filed in 1998 to current can be printed
       from the public computers in the Clerk's Office for a fee of .10
       cents per page.
     * A coin copier is available in the Clerk's Office public area for
       copying court documents. (.20 cents per page)

   When visiting the Clerk's Office, keep in mind the fees associated with
   obtaining copies of your documents. These fees are, but are not limited
                                     to:
     * $35 case retrieval fee from the FRC
     * $7 fee per certification of document
     * $20 fee for CD replications of court hearings

                              The Court Website

   Court information and documents can be accessed via the court website.
   In order to view this information, computer users must have the minimum
                    requirements to view the information:
     * Windows95 or higher
     * Netscape or Internet Explorer
     * Internet Access
     * Pacer id and password*
     * Paperport viewer & Abobe Acrobat Reader Programs (these
       applications may be downloaded free from the court website. Click
       on the hyperlink to download).

   * A login and password, issued by the PACER Service Center, is required
   for access to case query information only. Computer users may register
       on-line from the PACER website. Click on the hyperlink for more
    information. A user fee (for the case query information ONLY) of .07
    cents/screen will be charged. This fee is charged only when a user's
                        total annual bill is issued.

                          Computer users can also:
     * Search local and federal bankruptcy rules;
     * Access the web pages of other Bankruptcy Courts around the country;
     * Email the intake and case management team with questions and / or
       comments;
     * View bankruptcy statistics and/or reports.

                      The Federal Records Center (FRC)

      The Federal Records Center (FRC) in Waltham, Massachusetts store
   inactive records. There are 3 ways of reviewing and/or obtaining copies
    of a bankruptcy case. (Note: cases filed previous to 1998 are held at
      the Clerk's Office for 2 years after the closing of the case. We
    strongly suggest that you call before visiting the Clerk's Office to
                verify where your cases is being maintained).
     * Option #1 Calling the FRC (781-647-8766) and requesting that your
       document be faxed or mailed to you. There are varying fees
       associated with this depending on the option package chosen,
       however, this option is almost always less expensive than having
       the Clerk's Office retrieve your file for you. NOTE Credit card
       requests will be processed within 2-3 days of the order.
     * Option #2 Visiting the FRC to review and make copies of your case.
       You will need to call the FRC and make an appointment (at least one
       day in advance) in order to review a case. There is no charge to go
       to the FRC but you will need to decide if you want your copies
       certified. Be prepared to pay for copying and/or certification
       prior to the copies being made.
     * Option #3 Calling or visiting the Clerk's Office to order the case
       from the FRC. You may order the case for $35 via the Clerk's
       office. Various methods of payment are accepted. The case will
       arrive at the Clerk's Office 3-5 days after the order has been
       placed. When the case arrives, you may view and make copies of the
       file at .20 cents per page in our public area.
