http://www.ioss.gov/html/rules_regulations.htm

   picture of IOSS coin, showing Purple dragon and shield with the words
   "Interagency OPSEC Support Staff" Interagency OPSEC Support Staff
   Headline

                               Rules and Regulations
       1. For site management, information is collected for statistical
          purposes. This government computer systems uses software programs
          to create summary statistics, which are used for such purposes as
          assessing what information is of most and least interest,
          determining technical design specifications, and identifying system
          performance or problem areas.
       2. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
          available to all users, this government computer system employs
          software programs to monitor network traffic to identify
          unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise
          cause damage.
       3. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other
          attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
          habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are
          scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National
          Archives and Records Adminstration General Schedule 20. All data
          collection activities are in strict accordance with DoD directive
          5240.1.
       4. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information
          on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under
          the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National
          Information Infrastructure Protection Act.

                                    Disclaimer

      Every attempt has been made to insure the accuracy of the information
      contained in the IOSS site, however, no warranty is made concerning the
      accuracy or timeliness of the information presented. Additionally,
      there is no implied warranty covering access to the government computer
      system hosting the IOSS site.

               OFFICIAL DOD POLICY REGARDING WWW INFORMATION SYSTEMS

        * Air Force Policy
        * DISA/NCS World Wide Web (WWW) Handbook Version 3.0
        * DoD Policy for GILS Implementation: Memorandum form the Deputy
          Secretary of Defense
        * Guidence for the Management of Army Web Sites, 30 October 1996
        * Guidelines for Naval Use of the Internet



   Improper usage of this service may result in discontinuation of service
                         to an individual or group.


   Return to Interagency OPSEC Support Staff(IOSS) page.



   Last Updated on August 6, 2001
