http://connect.larc.nasa.gov/coolsites.html

   NASA CONNECT Logo Skip Nav Bar Home " " Educators Parents Index

   " "

   Cool Sites for Kids

   [space100w.gif]
   NASA KIDS by Liftoff to Space Exploration Discovery is the focus for
   the learning opportunities found while exploring the concepts of Space
   and Beyond, Rockets and Airplanes, Projects, Games and Pioneers and
   Astronauts.
   Kids in Space—A Play About What It’s Like in Space If you are an actor
   in training, this site is for you.
   For Kids Only –Earth Science Enterprise Do you have a science project
   and need facts or do you just love reading about science? This site
   provides insight into earth science topics such as Natural Hazards,
   Air, Land, and Water by incorporating NASA research, video clips, and
   NASA projects.
   Science at NASA Graphic NASA Science News Read the NASA kids newspaper
   or headline news articles about Earth, NASA scientific discoveries, and
   on-goings in the Universe each week.
   The Space Place Visit Space Place to make and do spacey things, put
   real science into action, and learn amazing facts about the Earth and
   Space.
   Plane Math A student and teacher site made in conjunction with NASA and
   Info Use. This site has three activities entitled Applying Flying,
   Pioneer Plane, and Plane Math Enterprises. Each learning activity is
   interactive and fun to do at home or in a classroom.
   Anatomy of an Airplane Learn the four forces that effect an airplane
   and the different parts. Then test your knowledge and build your own
   airplane on this interactive site.
   NASA Human Space Flight This site provides space shuttle information in
   a newspaper format and includes real time data and images.
   Sky Watch Graphic NASA Real Time Data- Skywatch This web-based Java
   application provides sky watchers worldwide with a picture of when and
   where the International Space Station, the Space Shuttle and other
   spacecraft can be seen where the unaided eye as they pass overhead.
   Johnson Space Center – Astronauts Find out what astronauts are schedule
   on the next NASA space voyage, read astronaut biographies, and learn
   about what it takes to be an astronaut from the training to the
   wardrobe.
   How Things Fly Check out this site to learn how airplanes, rockets,
   helicopters, and gliders fly. Build your own airplane and learn about
   the forces that are at work in aerodynamics.

   " "

                                                                 NASA Logo
   Produced by the NASA LaRC Office of Education. Responsible NASA
   Official: Dr. Thomas E. Pinelli, Distance Learning Officer.
   Privacy Policy. Rights & Use information. Questions or Comments? E-mail
   them to connect@edu.larc.nasa.gov
