http://mrmib.ca.gov/MRMIB/AIM/AIM_Regs011113.pdf

   AIM Regulations R-2-00 2001 Federal Poverty Level Reference Change
   Regulations May 23, 2001 TITLE 10: CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS
   CHAPTER 5.6 ACCESS FOR INFANTS AND MOTHERS PROGRAM ARTICLE 1.
   DEFINITIONS 2699.100. Definitions (a) "Appellant" means an applicant or
   subscriber who has filed an appeal with the program. (b) "Applicant "
   means an individual who has filed a complete application for program
   coverage and paid the first portion of the subscriber contribution. (c)
   "Board" means the Managed Risk Medical Insurance Board. (d) "Child"
   means a person under the age of 21 who is unmarried. (e) "Coverage"
   means the payment for benefits provided through the program. (f)
   "Disenroll" means to terminate from coverage by the program. (g)
   "Eligible" means the applicant is qualified to be enrolled in a
   participating health plan. (h) "Enroll" means to accept an applicant as
   a subscriber by notifying a participating health plan to accept the
   applicant. (i) "Executive Director " means the executive director for
   the Board. (j) "Family income" means gross family income minus any
   applicable income deductions. (k) "Family member" means the following
   persons living in the individual's home: (1) A child or sibling
   children of the individual. (2) The parents married or unmarried of the
   sibling children. (3) The stepparents of the sibling children. (4) The
   separate children of either unmarried parent or of the married parent
   or stepparent. (l) "Federal poverty level" means the "2001 Poverty
   Guidelines for the 48 Contiguous States and District of Columbia" as
   contained in the Annual Update of HHS Poverty Guidelines as published
   in the February 16, 2001 issue of the Federal Register by the U.S.
   Department of Health and Human Services. These guidelines are hereby
   incorporated by reference. For purposes of this program, a pregnant
   woman shall be counted as two family members in calculating the number
   of persons in the family. 1 (m) "Gross family income" means the total
   annual income of all family members except dependent children. Income
   includes before tax earnings from a job, including cash, wages, salary,
   commissions and tips, self-employment net profits, Social Security,
   State Disability Insurance (SDI), Retirement Survivor Disability
   Insurance (RSDI), veterans benefits, Railroad Retirement, disability
   worker's compensation, unemployment benefits, alimony, spousal support,
   pensions and retirement benefits, grants that cover living expenses,
   settlement benefits, rental income, gifts, lottery/bingo winnings and
   interest income. Income excludes child support, public assistance
   program benefits such as SSI/SSP and CalWORKS payments, foster care
   payments, general relief, loans, grants or scholarships applied toward
   college expenses, or earned income of a child aged 13 or under, or a
   child attending school. Income does not include income exclusions
   applicable to all federal means tested programs such as, disaster
   relief payments, per capita payments to Native Americans from proceeds
   held in trust and/or arising from use of restricted lands, Agent Orange
   payments, Title IV student assistance, energy assistance payments to
   low income families, relocation assistance payments, victims of crime
   assistance program, Spina Bifida payments, earned income tax credit and
   Japanese reparation payments. (n) "Income deduction" means any of the
   following: (1) Work expenses of $90 per month for each family member
   except dependent children working or receiving disability workers'
   compensation or State Disability Insurance. If a family member earns
   less than $90, the deduction can only be for the amount earned. (2)
   Child care expenses while a family member works or trains for a job of
   up to $200 per month for each family member under age 2, up to $175 per
   month for each family member over age 2 and dependent care expenses of
   up to $175 for a disabled dependent. (3) The amount paid by a family
   member per month for any court ordered alimony or child support. (4) Up
   to $50 for alimony payments received by the pregnant woman. If a woman
   receives less than $50, the deduction can only be for the amount
   received. (o) "Infant" means a subscriber's child born to a subscriber
   while the subscriber is enrolled in the program. (p) "Living in the
   home" means using the home as the primary place of residence. (q)
   "Medi-Cal" means the California health care services program under
   Title XIX of the Social Security Act. (r) "Medicare" means the Health
   Insurance for the aged and permanently disabled provided under Title
   XVIII of the Social Security Act; "Part A" means Hospital Insurance as
   defined in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act; and "Part B" means
   Medical Insurance as defined in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act.
   (s) "Participating health plan" means any of the following plans which
   are lawfully engaged in providing, arranging, paying for, or
   reimbursing the cost of personal health care services under insurance
   policies or contracts, medical and hospital service arrangements, or
   membership contracts, in consideration of premiums or other periodic 2
   charges payable to it, and that contracts with the program to provide
   coverage to program subscribers: (1) A private insurer holding a valid
   outstanding certificate of authority from the Insurance Commissioner.
   (2) A nonprofit hospital service plan qualifying under Chapter 11a
   (commencing with Section 11491) of Part 2 of Division 2 of the
   Insurance Code. (3) A nonprofit membership corporation lawfully
   operating under the Nonprofit Corporation Law (Division 2 (commencing
   with Section 5000) of the Corporations Code). (4) A health care service
   plan as defined under subdivision (f) of Section 1345 of the Health and
   Safety Code. (5) A county or a city and county, in which case no
   license or approval from the Department of Insurance or the Department
   of Corporations shall be required to meet the requirements of this
   part. (6) A comprehensive primary care licensed community clinic that
   is an organized outpatient freestanding health facility and is not part
   of a hospital that delivers comprehensive primary care services, in
   which case, no license or approval from the Department of Insurance or
   the Department of Corporations shall be required to meet the
   requirements of this part. (t) "Program" means the Access for Infants
   and Mothers Program. (u) "Resident" means a person who is present in
   California with intent to remain present except when absent for
   transitory or temporary purposes. (v) "Subscriber" means an individual
   who is eligible for and enrolled in the program. (w) "Subscriber
   contribution" means the cost to the subscriber to participate in the
   program. (x) "Tenses, and Number" . The present tense includes the past
   and future, and the future the present; the singular includes the
   plural and the plural the singular. (y) "Time". Whenever in this
   chapter a time is stated in which an act is to be done, the time is
   computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the
   last day is a holiday it is also excluded. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12695, 12695.06,
   12695.08, 12695.18, 12695.20, 12695.22, 12695.24, 12696 and 12698,
   Insurance Code. 3 ARTICLE 2. ELIGIBILITY, APPLICATION, AND ENROLLMENT
   2699.200. Basis of Eligibility (a) All eligibility requirements
   contained herein shall be applied without regard to race, creed, color,
   sexual orientation, health status, national origin, occupation, or
   occupational history of the individual applying for the program. (b) To
   be eligible for the program, an individual shall meet the requirements
   of either (1) or (2): (1) Meet all of the following requirements: (A)
   Be certified as pregnant by a licensed medical doctor, licensed doctor
   of osteopathy, licensed registered nurse, or licensed physician's
   assistant and have a reasonable good faith belief that the pregnancy is
   not beyond the 30th week of gestation; and (B) Be a resident of the
   state of California and have been a resident for at least six
   continuous months immediately prior to the date of signing the
   application; and (C) Have an annual family income that is above 200
   percent of the federal poverty level but does not exceed 300 percent of
   the federal poverty level at the time of application; and (D) Pay the
   first portion of the subscriber contribution, which shall be fifty
   dollars ($50), and agree to the payment of the complete subscriber
   contribution; and (E) Not be reimbursed by any health care provider or
   any state or local governmental entity for payment of the subscriber
   contribution and not have any health care provider or state or local
   governmental entity. pay the subscriber contribution; and (F) Not be a
   beneficiary of either Medi-Cal or Medicare Part A and Part B at the
   time of signing of the application; and (G) Not be covered for
   maternity benefits in a private insurance arrangement at the time of
   signing of the application. An individual in a private insurance
   arrangement with a separate maternity only deductible or copayment
   greater than $500 shall be deemed not covered for maternity benefits
   for purposes of determining eligibility. (2) Be an infant of less than
   two (2) years of age that was born to a program subscriber and reside
   in California. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code.
   Reference: Sections 12696.05, 12698, 12698.05, and 12698.06, Insurance
   Code. 4 2699.201. Application (a) To apply for the program an
   individual shall submit: (1) All information, documentation, and
   declarations necessary to determine program eligibility as set forth in
   subsection (d) of this section; and (2) A cashier's check or money
   order for fifty dollars ($50.00); and (3) A statement signed by the
   individual or the individual's parent, conservator, or guardian
   agreeing that if the individual is enrolled, she or he will pay the
   full subscriber contribution and acknowledging that the program will
   take aggressive action to collect the full subscriber contribution. (b)
   The individual or the individual's parent, conservator, or guardian
   shall sign and date a declaration stating that the information is true
   and accurate. (c) An incomplete application shall be returned to the
   individual and shall not be processed. (d)(1) The application, entitled
   Access for Infants and Mothers (AIM) Application (March, 2000) shall
   contain the following: (A) The individual's full name, (B) The
   individual's current living address including house or building number
   (and unit number if applicable), street, city, county, state, and zip
   code, and phone number, (C) The individual's date of birth, (D) The
   individual's social security number (provision of the Social Security
   number is not mandatory), (E) The individual's ethnicity and primary
   language (not mandatory), (F) Certification by a licensed medical
   doctor, licensed doctor of osteopathy, licensed registered nurse,
   licensed physician's assistant, or staff person authorized by the
   Planned Parenthood organization that the individual is pregnant, (G)
   The first day of the individual's last menstrual period, (H) A
   declaration that the individual is not, to the best of her knowledge,
   beyond the 30th week of gestation in a current pregnancy, (I)
   Information about whether the applicant or anyone in the household
   smokes. (J) The address to which the bills for the subscriber's
   contribution are to be sent, if different from the current living
   address, (K) A list of all family members living in the home, their
   ages, and relationship to the individual making application, 5 (L) A
   list of those family members, and their social security numbers
   excluding dependent children, living in the home who had income in the
   previous or current calendar year, (provision of the social security
   number is not mandatory), (M) Documentation of the individual's total
   annual gross family income for either the previous or current calendar
   year. For each person listed in (L) above, such documentation shall
   include either: 1. For the previous calendar year: a. Federal personal
   income tax return or all W-2 forms and all 1099 forms. b. All of the
   following that are applicable: copies of award letters, checks, or bank
   statements showing the amount of Social Security, State Disability
   Insurance (SDI), Retirement Survivor Disability Insurance (RSDI),
   veterans benefits, Railroad Retirement, disability workers'
   compensation, unemployment benefits, alimony, spousal support, pensions
   and retirement benefits, grants that cover living expenses, settlement
   benefits, gifts, lottery/bingo winnings , or a bank statement or
   passbook showing interest. 2. For the current calendar year: a. One of
   the following: i. A letter from the person's current employer. The
   letter shall be written on the employer's letterhead, and include the
   following: (i). The employee's name. (ii). The employer's Federal tax
   identification number. (iii). The employer's business name, business
   address and phone number. (iv). A statement of the person's current
   gross income on an annualized basis or for the most recent three (3)
   month period of time which ended within 35 days from the time of
   application. (v). A statement that the information presented is true
   and correct to the best of the signer's knowledge. (vi). A signature by
   someone authorized to sign such letters by the employer. The signer
   shall include his or her position name or job title and shall not be
   the person whose income is being disclosed. (vii). A copy of the
   person's most recent paycheck stub or if paid with a business check, a
   copy of the most recent bank processed check front and back to
   accompany the letter. 6 ii. Paycheck or unemployment stubs for a three
   (3) month period of time which ended within 35 days of the time of
   application. iii. Self-employment profit and loss statements showing
   net profit for a three (3) month period of time which ended within 35
   days from the time of application. b. All of the following that are
   applicable: award letters, checks, or bank statements showing the
   amount of Social Security, State Disability Insurance (SDI), Retirement
   Survivor Disability Insurance (RSDI), veterans benefits, Railroad
   Retirement, disability workers' compensation, umemployment benefits,
   alimony, spousal support, pensions and retirement benefits, grants that
   cover living expenses, settlement benefits, gifts, lottery/bingo
   winnings, or a bank statement or passbook showing interest income for
   the previous month. (N) Documentation of court ordered child support
   and/or alimony paid, and child or dependent care expenses paid.
   Acceptable types of documentation include: 1. For court ordered child
   support and/or alimony paid, copies of cancelled checks, pay stubs
   showing support deductions, or statements from the District Attorney's
   Family Support Division for the most recent one (1) month period. 2.
   For child or dependent care expenses paid, copies of receipts or
   cancelled checks for the most recent one (1) month period. (O) A
   declaration that the individual is not a beneficiary of either Medi-Cal
   or Part A and Part B of Medicare, (P) A declaration that the individual
   has been a resident of the State of California for six (6) continuous
   months immediately prior to the date of the signing of the application,
   (Q) A declaration that the individual will abide by the rules of
   participation, utilization review process, and dispute resolution
   process of any participating health plan in which the individual is
   enrolled, (R) Information about any health coverage that is in effect
   for the individual or will be in effect for the infant., (S) A
   declaration that the individual is not, to the best of the individual's
   knowledge, covered for maternity benefits in a private insurance
   arrangement. An individual with a separate, maternity only deductible
   or co-payment greater than $500 shall be deemed not covered for
   maternity benefits for purposes of this declaration., (T) Name and
   address of the primary employer of each adult family member who is
   employed., (U) Information about health coverage available to the
   employees of the primary employer of any parent or spouse who is a
   family member., 7 (V) A declaration that the individual has reviewed
   the benefits offered by the participating health plans, (W) A
   declaration that the individual understands and will follow the rules
   and regulations of the program, (X) A declaration that the individual
   is giving permission for the program to verify her family income,
   health insurance, residence, and other circumstances, (Y) A declaration
   that the subscriber is not being, and will not be, reimbursed by any
   health care provider or any state and local governmental entity for
   payment of the subscriber contribution and that no health care provider
   or state or local governmental entity is paying or will pay the
   subscriber contribution., (Z) An indication of the individual's first
   choice and second choice participating health plans, (AA) A declaration
   that the subscriber agrees to pay the required subscriber contribution,
   even if the subscriber does not take full advantage of the coverage or
   services. (2) The Social Security number and other personal information
   are needed for identification and administrative purposes. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections
   12698 and 12698.05, Insurance Code. 2699.202. Initial Review of
   Application Upon receipt of an application the program shall determine
   if there is funding available for additional enrollment in the program.
   (a) If there is no funding available the application shall be rejected
   and returned. (b) If there is funding available the application shall
   be reviewed for completeness. (1) If it is not complete it shall be
   returned. (2) If it is complete it will be reviewed for an eligibility
   determination pursuant to Section 2699.203. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696, 12696.05
   and 12696.15, Insurance Code. 2699.203. Determination of Eligibility
   (a) The program shall determine the applicant's eligibility based upon
   the criteria specified in Section 2699.200. The program shall complete
   the application review process within 10 calendar days of receipt of
   the complete application. (b) Applicants determined ineligible shall be
   notified in writing by the program. The notice shall include the reason
   for the determination of ineligibility and an explanation of the 8
   appeal process. The first portion of the applicant's subscriber
   contribution shall be refunded. (c) Applicants determined eligible
   shall be enrolled. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance
   Code. Reference: Sections 12696 and 12696.05, Insurance Code. 2699.204.
   Enrollment (a) Applicants determined eligible for the program shall be
   enrolled in their: (1) First choice participating health plan, unless
   that plan is currently serving the number of subscribers which it has
   contracted with the program to serve. (2) Second choice participating
   health plan when the first choice plan is currently serving the number
   of subscribers which it has contracted with the program to serve. (b)
   An applicant shall be notified in writing by the program of enrollment
   with a participating health plan and the beginning date of coverage by
   the participating health plan. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05,
   Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696, and 12696.05, Insurance
   Code. 2699.205. Registration of Infant (a) Within thirty (30) days of
   birth of an infant a subscriber shall notify their participating health
   plan in writing of the following information about the infant: (1)
   Name; and (2) Date of birth; and (3) Sex; and (4) Weight at birth. (b)
   Within thirty (30) days prior to an infant's first birthday, the
   subscriber shall notify the program whether the subscriber wishes to
   continue enrollment of the infant in the program or to disenroll the
   infant. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code.
   Reference: Section 12696, Insurance Code. 2699.206. Change of Address A
   subscriber shall notify the program in writing within thirty (30) days
   of any change of residential or billing address. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12696, Insurance
   Code. 2699.207. Disenrollment 9 (a) A subscriber and/or infant shall be
   disenrolled from the program and from the program's participating
   health plan when any of the following occur: (1) The subscriber so
   requests. (2) The subscriber becomes ineligible because: (A) The
   subscriber fails to meet the residency requirement; or (B) The
   subscriber has committed an act of fraud to circumvent the statutes or
   regulations of the program. (C) The subscriber is no longer pregnant on
   her effective date of coverage. (3) The infant becomes ineligible
   because the infant fails to meet the residency requirement. (b) A
   subscriber shall be notified by the program in writing of the
   disenrollment of the subscriber and/or infant from the program and the
   reason for the disenrollment. (c) Except for Section 2699.207(a)(2)(C),
   disenrollment shall take effect thirty (30) days following the date of
   the notice. Disenrollment pursuant to Section 2699.207(a)(2)(C) shall
   take effect upon the date that would have been the effective date of
   coverage. (d) Once a subscriber and/or infant is disenrolled pursuant
   to Section 2699.207(a), the subscriber and/or infant cannot be
   re-enrolled for the same pregnancy. NOTE: Authority cited: Section
   12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696.05 and 12698,
   Insurance Code. 2699.208. Continuation of Benefits. Infants shall be
   eligible to continue coverage in the program from a participating
   health plan if the subscriber is deceased or becomes ineligible for
   reasons other than an act of fraud while the infant is otherwise
   eligible. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code.
   Reference: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. 2699.209. Coverage (a) The
   date on which the coverage shall begin shall be no later than ten (10)
   calendar days from the date the applicant is enrolled. Coverage shall
   not begin if the pregnancy terminates prior to the effective date of
   coverage. (b) Coverage in the program for the subscriber shall be for
   one pregnancy and shall include services following the pregnancy for
   sixty (60) days. The subscriber shall be notified of the date her
   coverage ends and such notice will be provided at least twenty (20)
   days prior to that date. (c) Coverage in the program for an infant born
   to a subscriber shall be for two (2) years from the date of the birth
   of the child. (d) Notwithstanding subsections (b) and (c) above
   coverage in the program for either the subscriber or the infant will
   cease at disenrollment. 10 NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05,
   Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696.05 and 12698.30, Insurance
   Code. 2699.210. Transfer of Enrollment (a) A subscriber and/or infant,
   if any, shall be transferred from one participating health plan to
   another if any of the following occurs: (1) The subscriber so requests,
   in writing, because the subscriber and/or infant, if any, has moved and
   no longer resides in an area served by the participating health plan in
   which the subscriber and/or infant, if any, is enrolled, and there is
   at least one other participating health plan serving the area in which
   the subscriber and/or infant now resides that is accepting new
   enrollees. (2) The subscriber or the participating health plan so
   requests, in writing, because of failure to establish a satisfactory
   subscriber-plan relationship and the executive director determines that
   the transfer is in the best interests of the program, and there is at
   least one other participating health plan serving the area in which the
   subscriber resides that is accepting new enrollees. (3) The program
   contract with the participating health plan in which the subscriber is
   enrolled is canceled or not renewed. (b) Transfer of enrollment shall
   take effect within thirty-one (31) days of approval of the request, or,
   if the transfer is pursuant to subsection (a)(3) above, shall take
   effect prior to the end of the contract. NOTE: Authority cited: Section
   12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696 and 12697.10,
   Insurance Code. 2699.211. Payment for Application Assistance (a) The
   program shall pay an insurance agent as defined in Section 31 of the
   Insurance Code, or broker as defined in Section 33 of the Insurance
   Code, or a licensed general acute care hospital, or a licensed medical
   doctor, or a licensed doctor of osteopathy, or a registered nurse, or a
   county health department, or a county welfare department, or a licensed
   day care operator, or a licensed primary care community clinic, or a
   direct state maternal and child health contractor, or a participating
   health plan, or a licensed chiropractor for assisting an individual in
   completing the application form, if the following conditions are met:
   (1) The individual is enrolled as a result of the application; and (2)
   The request for payment is made in writing and specifies to whom the
   payment shall be made; and (3) Such request accompanies the application
   and includes the name, position/title and address and, if applicable,
   the license number of the person who assists in the completion of the
   application and the tax identification number of the person/entity to
   be paid. An incomplete request will be rejected; information missing
   from the applicant cannot be submitted at a later date. (b) The amount
   of such payment shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). 11 NOTE: Authority
   cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12696,
   Insurance Code 12 ARTICLE 3. SCOPE OF BENEFITS 2699.300. Minimum Scope
   of Benefits (a) The basic scope of benefits offered by participating
   health plans to subscribers and infants shall include all of the
   benefits and services listed in this section. No other benefits shall
   be permitted to be offered by a participating health plan unless
   specifically provided for in the program contract with the
   participating health plan. The basic scope of benefits shall be as
   follows: (1) Services required to be provided by a health care service
   plan approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as a
   federally qualified health care service plan pursuant to Section
   417.101 of Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations as amended on
   May 5, 1982 and redesignated on September 30, 1987. (2) Durable medical
   equipment. (3) Inpatient mental health benefits limited to ten (10)
   days in each calendar year. (4) Emergency transportation. (5) Medical
   rehabilitation and the services of occupational therapists, physical
   therapists, and speech therapists for short-term therapy of acute
   conditions on an outpatient and inpatient basis. (6) Health education
   services, including health education services relating to tobacco use
   and drug and alcohol abuse. (7) Direct patient care nutrition services,
   including nutritional assessment. (8) Medically necessary prescription
   drugs, including prenatal vitamins. Prescription drugs are limited to
   drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration, generic
   equivalents approved as substitutable by the federal Food and Drug
   Administration, or drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug
   Administration as Treatment Investigational New Drugs. (9) Plastic and
   reconstructive surgical services limited to the following: (A) Surgery
   to correct a physical functional disorder resulting from a disease or
   congenital anomaly. (B) Surgery to correct a physical functional
   disorder following an injury, or incidental to surgery which was or
   would have been covered pursuant to this section. (C) Reconstructive
   surgery and associated procedures following a mastectomy which resulted
   from disease, illness, or injury, and breast prosthesis required
   incidental to the surgery. (10) Non-experimental human organ
   transplants. Transplants other than corneal shall be subject to the
   following restrictions: (A) Preoperative evaluation, surgery, and
   follow-up care shall be provided at centers that have been designated
   by the participating health plan as having 13 documented skills,
   resources, commitment and record of favorable outcomes to qualify the
   centers to provide such care. (B) Patients shall be selected by the
   patient-selection committee of the designated centers and subject to
   prior authorization. (C) Only one transplantation per organ-type per
   patient is covered. Replacement of a rejected organ will not be
   covered. (D) Only anti-rejection drugs, biological products, and other
   procedures that have been established as safe and effective, and no
   longer investigational, are covered. (b) This part shall not be
   construed to prohibit a plan's ability to impose cost-control
   mechanisms. Such mechanisms may include but are not limited to
   requiring prior authorization for benefits or providing benefits in
   alternative settings or using alternative methods. (c) Nothing in this
   section shall preclude the direct reimbursement of nurse practitioners
   or other advanced practice nurses in providing covered services. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections
   12696.05 and 12698.30, Insurance Code. 2699.301. Excluded Benefits (a)
   Plans offered under this program shall exclude the following benefits
   unless specifically provided for in the program contract with the
   participating health plan: (1) Services which are not medically
   necessary. "Medically necessary" as applied to the diagnosis or
   treatment of illness is an article or service that is not
   investigational and is necessary because: (A) It is appropriate and is
   provided in accordance with accepted medical standards in the state of
   California, and could not be omitted without adversely affecting the
   patient's condition or the quality of medical care rendered; and (B) As
   to inpatient care, it could not have been provided in a physician's
   office, in the outpatient department of a hospital, or in a lesser
   facility without adversely affecting the patient's condition or the
   quality of medical care rendered; and (C) If the proposed article or
   service is not commonly used, its application or proposed application
   has been preceded by a thorough review and application of conventional
   therapies; and (D) The service or article has been demonstrated to be
   of significantly greater therapeutic value than other, less expensive,
   services or articles. (2) Any services which are received prior to the
   enrollee's effective date of coverage, except as provided in Section
   2699.303. 14 (3) Custodial care, domiciliary care, or rest cures, for
   which facilities of a general acute care hospital are not medically
   required. Custodial care is care that does not require the regular
   services of trained medical or health professionals and that is
   designed primarily to assist in activities of daily living. Custodial
   care includes, but is not limited to, help in walking, getting in and
   out of bed, bathing, dressing, preparation and feeding of special
   diets, and supervision of medications which are ordinarily
   self-administered. (4) Personal or comfort items, or a private room in
   a hospital unless medically necessary. (5) Emergency facility services
   for nonemergency conditions. (6) Those medical, surgical (including
   implants), or other health care procedures, services, drugs, or devices
   which are either: (A) Services, products, drugs or devices which are
   experimental or investigational or which are not recognized in accord
   with generally accepted medical standards as being safe and effective
   for use in the treatment in question. (B) Outmoded or not efficacious.
   (7) Transportation except as specified in Section 2699.300(a)(4). (8)
   Implants, except cardiac pacemakers, intraocular lenses, screws, nuts,
   bolts, bands, nails, plates, and pins used for the fixation of
   fractures or osteotomies and artificial knees and hips; and except as
   specified in Section 2699.300(a)(9)(C). (9) Sex change operations and
   reversal of sterilization. (10) Eyeglasses, contact lenses (except the
   first intraocular lens following cataract surgery), routine eye
   examinations, including eye refractions, except when provided as part
   of a routine preventative examination for minors, hearing aids,
   orthopedic shoes, and orthodontic appliances. (11) Long-term care
   benefits including skilled nursing care, respite care, and hospice care
   are excluded except as a participating health plan shall determine they
   are less costly alternatives to the basic minimum benefits. (12) Dental
   services, including dental treatment for temporomandibular joint
   problems, except for repair necessitated by accidental injury to sound
   natural teeth or jaw, provided that the repair commences within ninety
   (90) days of the accidental injury or as soon thereafter as is
   medically feasible. (13) Residential treatment of chemical dependency
   or institutional treatment for rehabilitation related to chemical
   dependency. (14) Treatment of obesity by medical or surgical means. 15
   (15) Cosmetic surgery, including treatment for complications of
   cosmetic surgery, except as specifically provided in Section
   2699.300(a)(9). NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance
   Code. Reference: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. 2699.302.
   Pre-Existing Conditions Exclusion and Postenrollment Waiting Period.
   Subscribers and infants shall not be subject to any pre-existing
   condition exclusion period or postenrollment waiting period. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Section
   12696.05, Insurance Code. 2699.303. Services Received Prior to
   Enrollment (a) Subscribers may be reimbursed up to a total of one
   hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per subscriber for
   pregnancy-related medically necessary services, including but not
   limited to pregnancy test and initial prenatal visit, received in the
   time period beginning forty (40) days prior to the date a complete
   application is received by the program and ending on the beginning date
   of coverage. (b) Requests for payment pursuant to this section shall be
   submitted by the subscriber within ninety (90) days of the date service
   was provided and shall include the following information: (1) An
   original bill which includes the name, and business address of the
   medical doctor, doctor of osteopathy, registered nurse, pharmacist or
   physician's assistant, or laboratory providing service, (2) Name,
   address, date of birth and social security number (not mandatory) of
   the subscriber for whom services were provided, (3) date service was
   provided, (4) type of service provided, NOTE: Authority cited: Section
   12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12698.25, Insurance Code.
   2699.304. Order of Benefit Determination The coverage of this program
   shall not duplicate and shall pay secondary to any other valid and
   collectible medical coverage. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05,
   Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12698.06, Insurance Code. 16 ARTICLE
   4. SUBSCRIBER CONTRIBUTIONS 2699.400. Subscriber Contributions (a)
   Subscriber contributions shall be: (1) An initial fifty dollars
   ($50.00) to be submitted with the application; and (2) The difference
   between two per cent (2%) of the subscriber family income as documented
   in the application and fifty dollars ($50.00), which amount shall be
   due in twelve (12) equal monthly installments beginning with the first
   month following enrollment; and (3) One hundred dollars ($100.00) which
   shall be due on the infant's first birthday unless either of following
   apply: (A) The infant is disenrolled from the program prior to the
   infant's first birthday, or (B) The subscriber provides written proof
   that the infant is current for the infant's first year immunizations.
   Such immunizations shall include the first, second and third
   Diphtheria, Tetanus and Pertussis immunization; the first, second and
   third oral polio immunization; and the first and second Haemophilus
   influenza b immunization. The written proof shall be a signed statement
   by a licensed medical doctor, licensed doctor of osteopathy, registered
   nurse, or licensed physician's assistant. When such written notice is
   provided the amount shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (b) There shall be
   no penalty for early payment of any portion of the subscriber
   contribution. (c) In cases of multiple births to a subscriber, the $100
   payment shall apply to each infant. (d) Subscribers shall not be
   reimbursed by any health care provider or state or local governmental
   entity for payment of the subscriber contribution and shall not have
   any health care provider or state or local governmental entity pay the
   subscriber contribution. (e) No portion of the subscriber contribution
   is refundable except as provided in Sections 2699.202 and 2699.203 or
   unless the subscriber is disenrolled pursuant to Subsection
   2699.207(a)(2)(C). NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance
   Code. Reference: Sections 12696, 12696.05, and 12698, Insurance Code.
   2699.401. Discount for Prepayment of Subscriber Contribution The amount
   described in Section 2699.400(a)(2) shall be reduced by fifty dollars
   ($50.00) if the subscriber submits the amounts described in both
   Section 2699.400(a)(1) and Section 2699.400(a)(2) with her application.
   NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference:
   Section 12696, Insurance Code. ARTICLE 5. APPEALS 2699.500. Appeals to
   the Board (a) If a subscriber is dissatisfied with any action or
   failure to act which has occurred in connection with a participating
   health plan's coverage the subscriber's remedy shall be to file an
   appeal with the Board. (b) In addition, the following decisions may be
   appealed to the Executive Director only: (1) A program determination as
   to eligibility of any applicant. (2) A program determination to
   disenroll a subscriber or infant from the program. (3) A program
   determination to deny a subscriber request or to grant a participating
   health plan request to transfer the subscriber to a different
   participating health plan. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05,
   Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696 and 12698.20, Insurance Code.
   2699.501. Dispute Resolution Notwithstanding other sections in this
   Article, when a subscriber is dissatisfied with any action, or
   inaction, of the program's participating health plan in which she is
   enrolled, the subscriber shall first attempt to resolve the dispute
   with the participating health plan according to its established
   policies and procedures. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 12696.05,
   Insurance Code. Reference: Section 12696, Insurance Code. 2699.502.
   Filing an Appeal (a) An appeal shall be filed in writing with the
   Executive Director within sixty (60) calendar days of the action or
   failure to act or receipt of notice of the decision being appealed. (b)
   An appeal shall include all of the following: (1) A copy of any
   decision being appealed; or a written statement of the action or
   failure to act being appealed; (2) A statement specifically describing
   the issues which are disputed by the appellant; (3) A statement of the
   resolution requested by the appellant; and (4) Any other relevant
   information the appellant wants to include. (c) Any appeal that does
   not include all necessary information shall be returned to the
   applicant or subscriber without review. The applicant or subscriber may
   re-submit the appeal. The resubmittal shall be filed within the time
   limits of subsection (a) or within twenty (20) calendar days of the
   receipt of the returned appeal, whichever is later. NOTE: Authority
   cited: Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696 and
   12698.20, Insurance Code. 18 2699.503. Administrative Review (a) Any
   appeal filed pursuant to this Article will be given an administrative
   review. (b) Administrative reviews of appeals shall be conducted by the
   Executive Director. (c) In conducting an administrative review of an
   appeal, the Executive Director may contact the appellant and/or the
   participating health plan for further information. (d) The Executive
   Director's decision shall be in writing. (e) If an appeal was filed
   pursuant to section 2699.500(a), the appellant retains the right to
   request an administrative hearing if the appellant is not satisfied
   with the decision of the Executive Director. Such a request shall be
   filed within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the Executive
   Director's decision. It shall include a clear and concise statement of
   what action is being appealed, and the reason(s) the Executive
   Director's decision is not correct. NOTE: Authority cited: Section
   12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696 and 12698.20,
   Insurance Code. 2699.504. Hearings When an appeal which requests an
   administrative hearing is received, the appeal shall be set for hearing
   as follows: (a) Administrative hearings of appeals will be conducted
   according to the appeal procedures, including pre- and post-hearing
   procedures, set forth in Chapter 2.5 (commencing with section 251) of
   Division 2 of Title 1 of the California Code of Regulations. Chapter
   2.5, as adopted on June 4, 1984, is hereby incorporated by reference,
   subject to the following modifications: 1. Reference to the Health and
   Welfare Agency or the component department shall be deemed reference to
   the Managed Risk Medical Insurance Board. 2. Reference to the private
   non-profit human service organization shall be deemed reference to the
   petitioner. 3. Reference to the grievance procedure established in
   accordance with Health and Safety Code section 38036 shall be deemed
   reference to the administrative review process set forth in section
   2699.503. 4. Reference to Health and Safety Code sections providing the
   bases, grounds, authorization or procedures for appeals shall be deemed
   reference to the bases and authorization for appeal found in section
   2699.500, and the appeal procedures found in this section. 5. The
   30-day time period specified in section 251(b) shall be extended to 60
   days, and the 10-day time period in section 252(a) shall be extended to
   30 days. 6. If the proposed decision submitted to the Board is not
   adopted as the decision, the Board may itself decide the case on the
   record, or may refer the case to the same hearing officer to take
   additional evidence. If the case is referred back to the hearing
   officer, the hearing officer shall prepare a new proposed decision
   based on the additional evidence and the record of the prior hearing.
   19 7. The decision of the Board shall be issued within 90 days
   following the initial hearing or, if the case is referred back to the
   hearing officer, within 90 days of the second hearing. (b) The Board
   may elect to have a hearing conducted by an Administrative Law Judge
   employed by the Office of Administrative Hearings pursuant to the
   provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of
   Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. NOTE: Authority cited:
   Section 12696.05, Insurance Code. Reference: Sections 12696 and
   12698.20, Insurance Code. 20
