http://democraticleader.house.gov/issues/

                           Skip Navigational Links


   House Democratic Leader Home
     Leader's Corner
     Media Center
     Issues & Answers
     Families First Agenda
   In This Section

    The Weekly Agenda
    Policy Links
    Policy Priorities
    Special Events
   Email Sign-Up
     Sign up for the Gephardt Report:
   Go!

   Richard A. Gephardt Picture of Richard Gephardt
   Section Home

     Welcome to Issues and Answers - the message and policy hub for the
     House Democratic Leader's site. Use this section to connect to the
     latest policy priorities, get involved with Special Events, find
     other Democratic sites, and see House Democrats' work to put
     Families First on Congress' Agenda.

     Gephardt's Signature

                             The Weekly Agenda:
                                 The Economy

   Washington, D.C. - - House Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt made the
                     following statement on the economy:

    "Things are going well with the war in Afghanistan and now it is time
       to focus on the homefront and make sure that we can revive our
   struggling economy," said Gephardt. "We need a plan that will stimulate
   the economy and meet our priorities without wreaking havoc on the long
       term fiscal health of our nation. That means re-evaluating our
    country's budget and making sure we can meet competing needs without
                           creating huge deficits.

     "I have not heard one Democrat say he or she wants to raise taxes.
    Nonetheless, some in the Republican party are insisting that Senator
     Daschle and Democrats want to raise taxes. This is a partisan blame
   game and it has no place in the debate about the future economic health
                              of this country.

     "We have a lot to do in terms of helping people who have lost their
     jobs, providing a solid education for every American child, helping
     seniors afford prescription medicine and creating a balanced energy
   plan that reduces our dependence on foreign oil. When Congress returns,
    we hope to have a serious debate about how to do all of these things
     and also how to get this economy back on its feet. If this partisan
    blame game continues, it is going to be hard for us to come together,
              like we need to do, and get this economy going."


   Contact Us | Home | Site Map | HDL Help | Search | Privacy Statement
   Leader's Corner | Media Center | Issues & Answers | Email Sign Up


           © Copyright 2000-2001 Office of House Democratic Leader
           All rights reserved.
