http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/symposium/edszokepaper.pdf

   D3D: OVERVIEW, UPDATE, AND FUTURE PLANS J5.1 Edward J. Szoke*^, U.
   Herbert Grote, Paula T. McCaslin, and Philip A. McDonald* NOAA
   Research-Forecast Systems Laboratory Boulder, Colorado *[In
   collaboration with the Cooperative Institute for Research in the
   Atmosphere (CIRA), Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado]
   1. INTRODUCTION Table 1: D3D tools The NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory
   (FSL) is Tool Description Example tasked with evaluating and
   transferring potentially useful Isosurface 3D surface of a field Fig.
   1a applications that may be present within the research com- Plan view
   Horizontal 2-D display Fig. 1a munity into operations. One such
   application that is cur- Cross-section Vertical 2-D display Fig. 1a
   rently being evaluated at FSL is a visualization tool from the
   University of Wisconsin known as Vis5D (Hibbard and Sounding SkewT,
   hodograph, vertical plot Fig. 1b Santek 1991). FSL has taken the Vis5D
   software pack- Probe Point display of data none age, with enthusiastic
   support from Bill Hibbard at the Trajectory Forward/backward
   trajectories Fig. 1c University of Wisconsin, and developed it into an
   applica- Volume Visualization 3D "fog" type display Fig. 1d tion known
   as D3D (Display in three Dimensions), which could potentially add 3D
   visualization capabilities to Na- available in D2D (AWIPS). Two of the
   D3D "2-D" type tional Weather Service (NWS) Weather Forecast Offices
   tools are also shown in Fig. 1a, the plan view and the (WFOs). Vis5D
   and D3D can display 3-D grids of meteo- cross section. The plan view is
   of 500 mb height contours rological data using tools that include both
   3-D displays at intervals of 30 dm, while the cross section shows both
   and interactive 2-D displays. vorticity contours and an image of
   vorticity, linked togeth- This paper gives an overview of D3D,
   including a er into one cross section that is aligned in a skewed
   direc- description of its components, history at FSL, present sta- tion
   to emphasize the flexibility in orientation. tus in operations, and
   future plans. We are pleased that Another 2-D tool that has been
   modified consider- the interest in D3D has grown to the point that the
   Visual- ably by FSL is the Sounding tool, illustrated in Fig. 1b. The
   ization Session at the Interactive Symposium on the Ad- interactive
   part of this tool allows one to change the vanced Weather Interactive
   Processing System (AWIPS, sounding location as desired with an instant
   update to the Wakefield, 1998) will contain a number of papers discuss-
   entire display. In addition, one can display any of the four ing D3D.
   Most of the papers to follow in this session will components (SkewT,
   Vertical Plots, Hodograph, or Pa- discuss the use and initial
   impressions of D3D at some rameters) by themselves, or in any
   combination. The ver- WFOs where it has been deployed. This paper
   serves as tical plots option allows for display of any available field
   an introduction to the session. plotted against height, for up to three
   fields at once. The Probe tool (not shown) works like the sounding tool
   in that 2. OVERVIEW OF THE D3D TOOLS one can select any location for
   the probe, however, it sim- ply displays the value of as many fields as
   desired for just The Vis5D software package is really a collection of
   tools, some of which are true 3-D displays, while others are just 2-D
   displays that can be used in a highly interac- tive manner. A summary
   of the tools in D3D is given in Ta- ble 1, and most are illustrated in
   Fig. 1a-d. It must be noted that tools can easily be combined, and one
   is not restricted to just displaying one field or one cross section at
   a time. Full color illustrations of these tools, along with much more
   information on D3D, can be found on our homepage at
   http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/. Figure 1a shows an example of an isosurface
   of vorticity (a surface that en- closes vorticity with values between 0
   and 15 x 10-5s-1 ). The image is tilted to show the 3-D structure of
   the vortic- ity field as revealed by the isosurface. The data is from
   the Eta model's analysis field for the 1200 UTC run on 26 September
   2001, when a deep upper-level closed low was positioned over the Great
   Lakes, with another in the Gulf of Alaska. The isosurface is the basic
   3-D tool that is quite different from anything the forecaster currently
   has Fig. 1a. A combined D3D view showing an isosurface of vorticity, a
   plan view of 500 mb height, and a vertical cross section of vorticity
   displayed as both contours ^Corresponding author address: Ed Szoke,
   NOAA/ERL/FSL R/E/FS1, and as an image. The view is tilted to show
   structure 325 Broadway, Boulder, CO 80305-3328; e-mail:
   szoke@fsl.noaa.gov in the isosurface and to view the cross section.
   Fig. 1b. Example of the D3D sounding tool, with the cursor positioned
   over New England, for the 12 h Eta forecast. a single point in space,
   rather than a vertical profile. While jectory application, shown on the
   left side of Fig. 1c, that this limits the utility of the probe, there
   are some special allows one to easily create five different types of
   trajecto- applications where it may be of use, given the ability to
   ries: 1) "point," where one can launch a trajectory from a impose
   certain restrictions on the probe location, such as fixing it to a
   specific height or pressure level in the vertical as its horizontal
   location is changed. An additional feature of D3D and Vis5D is the
   abil- ity to construct trajectories, with the option of tracing a tra-
   jectory from a given point forward in time, or examining the trajectory
   that traces air that reaches a given point. The trajectories can be
   displayed as lines or ribbons, and can be colored by another variable.
   This interesting tool is familiar to meteorologists, but they are
   unable to con- struct them in operations. Therefore, the D3D trajectory
   product will be somewhat like the isosurface in that it may take time
   for forecasters to determine what value trajec- tories have in
   operational forecasting and how best to uti- lize them. The paper by
   Barjenbruch et al. (2002, this session) discusses some potential
   operational uses of trajectories at the Boulder WFO. Examples of
   several dif- ferent trajectory products available within D3D are shown
   in Fig. 1c. One of the most recent software changes was to create a new
   Graphical User Interface (GUI) for the tra- Fig. 1c. D3D trajectories
   showing three options. selected level (the ribbon from Indiana to New
   England in displayed on the FSL web page (http://laps.fsl.noaa.gov).
   Fig. 1c); 2) "levels," a predefined script that launches tra- After
   several years of exploration we decided to use the jectories at one
   location at 50 mb intervals in the vertical University of Wisconsin's
   Vis5D package, with its superior (this is illustrated for the streamer
   of trajectories eminat- animation capabilities, and long history in the
   meteoro- ing from a point over northeastern Minnesota; 3) "col- logical
   research community. As a plus, Vis5D had already umn," another script
   that launches trajectories at a given been exposed to the NWS through a
   COMET training level at intervals along a north-south line; 4) "row,"
   which module that used Vis5D to produce 3-D displays of pseu- does the
   same for an east-west line, as illustrated for the do-reflectivity for
   convective storms simulated by a re- trajectories along the row from
   Texas east into the Atlan- search numerical model (Anticipating
   Convective Storm tic; and 5) "series," which automatically launches a
   point Structure and Evolution, released in 1996; see http:// type
   trajectory at each available model time interval (6 h
   www.comet.ucar.edu). for the Eta, for example). The last D3D tool is
   called Volume Visualization, 3.2 Preliminary evaluation of D3D which is
   a true 3-D type product, but unlike the isosurface that encloses a
   field at a prescribed level, it displays the After the decision in
   early 1997 to use Vis5D as the entire range of data as a "fog" or
   "haze" type product. An core software for D3D development, the next
   step was to example is shown in Fig. 1d for relative humidity, and al-
   decide what portions of the existing software should be modified. Since
   Vis5D was designed for use in meteoro- logical research, the basic
   tools were already well thought out and were known to be useful for
   meteorological anal- ysis. So the main focus was on the interfaces that
   Vis5D used to select fields, change colors, or otherwise interact with
   the data. While the methods employed by Vis5D were effective, they
   differed considerably from similar tools that are in AWIPS D2D, which
   is the basic worksta- tion used in every WFO. In order to minimize any
   learning curve associated with using D3D, it made sense to make it
   physically look like D2D, and to have similar methods of accessing and
   manipulating data that were already known to operational forecasters.
   So the first main soft- ware push was to replace the Vis5D product
   selection matrix (Fig. 2a) with a D2D-like Volume Browser (Fig. 2b)
   Besides the changes necessary to make product Fig. 1d. Volume
   Visualization of Eta relative humidity. selection using the Volume
   Browser, the redesign of the Volume Browser for D3D needed to
   incorporate the nu- though much of the potential utility of the product
   is lost merous editing functions for the D3D products. In Vis5D with a
   black and white figure, one gets a flavor for how the the editing
   functions are controlled by individual GUIs that product works, in this
   case making the display of relative become active with different mouse
   clicks on a product in humidity appear much like a water vapor
   satellite image. the product selector matrix. As with the overall Vis5D
   One of the main difficulties with this application is that it product
   selector, these Vis5D tools were certainly effec- uses a lot of
   computer resources, especially when the im- tive enough, but their
   methods of editing fields (color, for ages are software rendered (as in
   the current setup). This example) were quite different than similar
   methods used makes it too slow to use operationally at this time under
   in D2D, and so were also prime candidates for software most machines in
   place, although with computer power changes as work began with D3D.
   Since certain parame- increasing this limitation should diminish in the
   future. ters in D3D need specification that is not required in D2D,
   such as a value to prescribe for an isosurface, the D3D 3. HISTORY OF
   D3D AT FSL Volume Browser editing functions could not be exactly like
   their D2D counterparts. An example of how the D3D 3.1 Early work with
   visualization Volume Browser looks when editing an isosurface prod- uct
   (field) is shown in Fig. 3. In early planning for AWIPS the idea of
   having vi- There were other important changes to Vis5D and sualization
   as part of the overall AWIPS display package how it interacted with the
   database that were required for was discussed and planned for as a
   future component. an operational type setting. These are detailed in
   McCa- Exploratory work with visualization at FSL began around slin et
   al. (1999, 2000), and basically involved how the ap- 1990 using
   commercial software for some research appli- plication accessed the
   same files that D2D uses. cations. A commercial package called
   Application Visual- Additionally, changes were made to enable one to
   switch ization System (AVS5) was used extensively, including as to a
   different model in D3D without restarting the applica- a display tool
   for analyses from the Local Analysis and tion. Other changes refined
   and enhanced Vis5D's dis- Prediction System (LAPS, McGinley et al.
   1991) that are play capabilities. After sufficient changes were made to
   Fig. 3. D3D Volume Browser in "edit mode" for editing an isosurface of
   vorticity. A value to display for the isosurface is controlled by the
   toolbar. Other editing functions like color selection and other
   features are Fig. 2a. Vis5D product selector. invoked by other GUIs
   through the boxes on the right. ogies such as D3D in a non-operational
   setting, and its use in the DWB began in the fall of 1997, from which
   we were able to receive a good deal of feedback that was useful in our
   initial development and refinement of D3D. After about a year of this
   effort, however, we felt even more could be accomplished with a more
   organized fore- casting experiment, of the type that FSL employed fre-
   quently over the last 20 years in developing D2D. So in the summer of
   1998 a real-time forecast exercise (RT98) was carried out using FSL
   meteorologists as well as a few forecasters from the nearby (now
   collocated) Denver WFO. RT98 did produce a higher level of useful
   evalua- tion, and again changes were made to encorporate some of the
   feedback we received. 3.3 Real-time Exercise-1999 After digesting much
   of the feedback from the RT98, which included a generally positive
   response to Fig. 2b. D3D Volume Browser, meant to replace what D3D, the
   next logical step in D3D development would be is shown in Fig. 2a. to
   expose the package to a wider variety of users via a the application to
   allow it to reliably be used on an AWIPS more formal forecast exercise,
   again in the spirit of the platform (Hewlett Packard Unix workstation),
   we began to early development days of D2D at FSL. The RT99 exer-
   evaluate D3D at FSL, looking at both its performance as cise was
   carried out from October to December 1999 at well as exploring the
   potential utility of the application for FSL. An invitation was sent to
   each of the six NWS re- weather forecasting. A natural means to
   accomplish this gions and to all the National Centers to send one fore-
   initial more informal evaluation was available at FSL caster from each
   location to FSL for a period of two through our Daily Weather Briefing
   (DWB) program, a weeks. The response to the invitations to participate
   was longstanding (since the early 1980s) program that in- excellent, as
   shown in Table 2. More information on RT99 volves a meteorologist
   giving a regularly-scheduled daily can be found in Szoke et al. (2001).
   30-min weather briefing to anyone interested in attending. The first
   two sessions were two weeks long to al- The DWB allows for informal
   evaluatuon of new technol- low for a more relaxed but comprehensive
   exercise. The Table 2: RT99 Attendees (NWS Region in parentheses) by
   which one interacts with these tools in D3D enables the forecaster to
   quickly and effectively peruse a large Organization Date volume of
   model output. A general consensus was that NCEP/Environmental Modeling
   Center 25 Oct-5 Nov this should allow operational forecasters to better
   focus NCEP/Storm Prediction Center on the important aspects of a
   forecast more quickly and with less chance of missing some critical
   feature because WFO/Missoula, Montana (Western) they failed to examine
   the "correct" level or the most ap- WFO/Amarillo, Texas (Southern)
   propriate cross section. NWS Office of Meteorology Nov 8-19 In addition
   to various suggestions to improve D3D, WFO/Gray, Maine (Eastern) some
   of the main criticisms included the desire to also WFO/Dodge City,
   Kansas (Central) display observed data, and the need to be able to
   exam- WFO/Boulder, Colorado (Central) Nov 8-12 ine more than one model
   at a time. Both of these issues could potentially be addressed with
   modifications in the WFO/Anchorage, Alaska (Alaska) Nov 15-19 future.
   Specific improvements were suggested to the NCEP/Aviation Weather
   Center Dec 13-17 Sounding tool, while a general consensus was to
   contin- NWS Headquarters ue to make the D3D GUIs appear more like D2D,
   if possi- NCEP/Tropical Prediction Center ble. This was viewed as
   important in order to reduce the amount of forecaster training needed
   to use the system, shorter final session was all that could be arranged
   to ac- allowing instead for the training to concentrate more on
   commodate the last three participants who could not the meteorological
   use of features like isosurfaces. commit to a full two weeks. Week 1
   focused on training users to become proficient with the system using
   specific exercises with real-time and case data, introducing each 3.4
   Post-RT99 D3D development at FSL D3D tool separately to allow adequate
   time for individual evaluation, and for each tool comparing to what one
   could We are limited at this time in the effort we are able discern
   using similar (where applicable) features in D2D. to put towards D3D,
   so priorities have been chosen based Week 2 focused on evaluating D3D
   as part of an opera- on as much consensus as could be derived from
   RT99. tional forecast system using three cases run in "delayed The
   major changes were to complete the Sounding tool real-time" (DRT) mode.
   Extensive online evaluation was to where it is now (Fig. 1b), and to
   complete the replace- conducted daily using detailed questionnaires
   designed ment of all Vis5D interfaces with more D2D-like GUIs by the
   FSL evaluation team, with similar experience in (both completed in an
   October 2001 release). evaluating D2D. Additionally, participants could
   enter A very major development after RT99 was porting freeform comments
   online at any time, a feature that D3D from the AWIPS HP-Unix platform
   to a PC platform turned out to be a very popular way to record their
   evalu- using Linux, which has also been developed at FSL for ation. For
   the shorter, final phase we tried to include most D2D as a potential
   replacement for the current AWIPS of the important features of the full
   exercise. workstations. The significant advantage to this switch was
   Although we compiled a large number of sugges- to utilize the low cost
   but high performance of rapidly tions for improvement of D3D (FSL
   E-Team 2000), the evolving PCs, which can easily be upgraded to take
   ad- overall feedback from RT99 was extremely positive, and vantage of
   new computing power. Two important D3D is- many participants wanted to
   take the application back to sues were solved by porting to a Linux PC:
   1) the their WFO or Regional Office in its current state. Because
   potential problem of slow response to the highly interac- of some
   workstation limitations that did not allow for Vol- tive D3D, which can
   easily frustrate the user; and 2) an in- ume Visualization to be
   adequately addressed during expensive way for a WFO to try D3D, since a
   WFO can RT99, the main three dimensional tool not available in now add
   an inexpensive PC to experiment with D3D with- D2D was the isosurface.
   The forecasters in RT99 found out any impact on operations. that
   isosurfaces were certainly very illustrative in terms of visualizing
   the atmosphere as well as quickly finding fea- 4. CURRENT FIELD STATUS
   OF D3D tures, but they also noted that it would take some time for
   forecasters to determine how best to use them. Clearly We noted that
   participants in RT99 often wished to the atmosphere is
   three-dimensional, and the isosurface take D3D back with them and
   install it at their WFO. This allows one to view it as such, but it was
   still difficult to was not possible at the time because the AWIPS Unix
   overcome the tendency to want to view fields in the tradi- workstations
   were only barely able to support D3D, and tional 2-D manner, plus there
   were problems such as we believed that slow performance would be a
   significant georeferencing in some situations that made them more
   detriment to D3D acceptability, based on RT99 results. difficult to
   quantiatively use. Once the port to a Linux PC was complete, we an-
   While intrigued by the potential of isosurfaces, par- nounced the
   availability of the software to those who par- ticipants were also
   impressed with the other applications ticipated in RT99 (since they
   would be able to train their in the D3D package, including the movable
   cross sections own staff), and many of the locations had an available
   and plan views, and the very popular sounding tool. While Linux PC
   already, or were prepared to purchase one. The each of these have
   analogous D2D features, the manner main stumbling block then was to
   hook the machine up to the real-time AWIPS database, which involved the
   WFO have D3D in operations to evaluate the software and sug- making the
   necessary arrangements with Regional gest changes to us, likely through
   changes to our evolving Headquarters and the AWIPS Program Office. We
   tried to D3D homepage at http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov. So far we have assist
   by running tests to assure that D3D would not have established a forum
   for exchange of email among users. a negative impact on operations in
   terms of slowing down D3D is currently in use at two Regional Headquar-
   AWIPS D2D performance. Our tests showed there was a ters (Eastern and
   Southern), but not yet at any National minimum impact when using D3D,
   and no impact at all if Centers, even though they sent representatives
   to RT99. the application is simply left idle. Additionally, D3D can be
   The Storm Prediction Center is a logical first choice, as easily shut
   down and quickly restarted. their RT99 participant was quite
   enthusiastic about the Initially two WFOs (Gray, Maine, and Dodge City,
   Sounding tool, which has just been updated in the new re- Kansas)
   pursued D3D in a lengthy but eventually (by ear- lease. Our future
   efforts will also involve continuing to ly 2001) successful effort to
   incorporate it into their oper- spread the word about D3D, through
   appearances at con- ations. The Gray WFO worked closely with Eastern
   ferences and workshops. We are interacting with COM- Region
   Headquarters, which also has D3D. Their experi- ET, where they have
   installed D3D in their training facility. ences with D3D thusfar are
   discussed in papers in this The number of D3D papers at this session
   represents the session (Hayes et al. 2002, and Johnson 2002). Other
   most discussion that the application has had thus far, and WFOs have
   also expressed interest in the application. is an encouraging sign that
   there is interest in pursuing FSL held a technology workshop for the
   NWS Southern this potential operational application. Region late in
   2000, and following this several of their WFOs sent representatives for
   a 3-day D3D training ses- 6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS sion in January 2001.
   This has resulted in the installation We wish to thank Dennis Rodgers
   of FSL for a review of this pa- of D3D at WFOs in Talahassee, Florida
   (see Watson et al. per, and Nita Fullerton (FSL) for a technical
   review. 2002, two papers), Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Amarillo, Texas, 7.
   REFERENCES and at Southern Region Headquarters. FSL closely works with
   the Boulder WFO, and they have had D3D Barjenbruch, D.B., E. R. Thaler
   and E. Szoke, 2002: Operational applica- tions of three-dimensional air
   parcel trajectories using AWIPS since May 2001 (Barjenbruch et al.,
   2002). FSL also D3D. Preprints, Interactive Symposium on AWIPS,
   Orlando, FL. works with weather services around the world, and the
   Amer. Meteor. Soc. J5.5. Central Weather Bureau in Taiwan recently
   acquired a Forecast Systems Laboratory Evaluation Team, 2000: RT99 D3D
   Evalua- Linux-PC version of D3D for testing. tion Final Questionnaire
   Catalog of Results, 130 pp. Hayes, J.C., J. W. Cannon and J. Watson,
   2002: Applying D3D in an operational environment. Preprints,
   Interactive Symposium on 5. FUTURE PLANS AWIPS, Orlando, FL. Amer.
   Meteor. Soc. J5.2. Hibbard, W. R. and D. Santek, 1991: The Vis5D system
   for easy interac- At this time D3D is not formally in the AWIPS de-
   tive visualization. Preprints, 7th International Conference on
   velopment plans, though it may evolve into them in time if Interactive
   Information and Processing Systems for Meteorol- ogy, Oceanography, and
   Hydrology, New Orleans, LA. Amer. further evaluation finds the software
   to be useful for oper- Meteor. Soc., 129-134. ational forecasting.
   Without this formal acceptance, fund- Johnson, J.R., 2002: Numerical
   model visualization using the FSL D3D: ing for further development is
   limited, so we cannot make A paradigm shift for operational
   forecasters. Preprints, Interac- tive Symposium on AWIPS, Orlando, FL.
   Amer. Met. Soc. J5.3. all the changes suggested by RT99 or the
   continuing McCaslin, P.T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J. Szoke, 1999:
   Developing and feedback from the field. The next major software efforts
   Testing a 3D Visualization Workstation Application at FSL. Pre- will be
   towards making the application more flexible to dif- prints, 15th
   International Conference on Interactive Information ferent AWIPS
   databases, and eventually addressing is- and Processing Systems for
   Meteorology, Oceanography, and Hydrology, Dallas, TX. Amer. Meteor.
   Soc., 498-501. sues like the incorporation of actual observations
   (point McCaslin, P.T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J. Szoke, 2000: 3D
   Visualization data or radar), as well as multiple model displays.
   Development at NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory. AMC SIG- We are
   encouraged by the interest that has al- GRAPH Computer Graphics, Feb
   2000, Vol. 34 No. 1, 41-44. ready occurred within the NWS in trying D3D
   at some McGinley, J.A., S.C. Albers, and P.A. Stamus, 1991: Validation
   of a com- WFOs. The availability of D3D on an inexpensive Linux posite
   convective index as defined by a real-time local analysis system.
   Weather and Forecasting. 6, 337-356. PC platform, and the recent move
   toward installing at Szoke, E.J., U.H. Grote, P.C. Kucera, P.T.
   McCaslin, P.A. McDonald, and least one such platform to run AWIPS at
   many WFOs, W.F. Roberts, 2001: D3D: A potential 3D visualization tool
   for the should make it relatively easy for additional WFOs to try
   National Weather Service. Preprints, 17th International Confer- ence on
   Interactive Information and Processing Systems for D3D. It is our
   strong belief that widespread experimental Meteorology, Oceanography,
   and Hydrology, Albuquerque, NM. use of D3D by a variety of users, under
   a range of weath- Amer. Meteor. Soc., 10-14. er problems, is the best
   way to yield a broad range of in- Wakefield, J.S., 1998: Operational
   Risk Reduction: Easing AWIPS into put that should eventually lead to an
   application that can the Field. Preprints, 14th International
   Conference on Interactive Information and Processing Systems for
   Meteorology, Oceanog- be of value to NWS forecast operations. The
   increasing raphy, and Hydrology, Phoenix, AZ. Amer. Met.. Soc.,
   389-391. use of local models among WFOs yields new parameters Watson,
   A.I., J. D. Fournier, T. P. Lericos, and E. J. Szoke, 2002: The use
   that forecasters are not accustomed to examining with of D3D when
   examining tropical cyclones. Preprints, Interactive forecast models,
   such as model-generated reflectivity Symposium on AWIPS, Orlando, FL.
   Amer. Meteor. Soc. J5.4. and cloud forecasts, naturals for displaying
   in 3-D. We will Watson, A.I., T. P. Lericos, J. D. Fournier, and E. J.
   Szoke, 2002: Better understanding of QG theory through the use of D3D.
   Preprints, need to devise new ways to make it easier for those who
   Interactive Symposium on AWIPS, Orlando, FL. Amer. Meteor. Soc. J8.8.
