http://religiousfreedom.house.gov/rlegal.htm

   home

       [space.gif]

                                                Reading Room


   The Text
   Fact Sheets
   Reading Room
   Q and A
   Press Releases
   Testimonies
   Legal Analysis
   Viewpoints
   Congressional
   Endorsing Groups
   Legal Analysis
   Opinion Polls
   The Process
   Cosponsors
   Committee Action
   Supreme Court
   Other Links
   Comments
   [space.gif]

                          Legal Review and Analysis
                                 [gray.gif]

                          House Joint Resolution 78
                  by U. S. Congressman Ernest J. Istook,Jr.

                                 Background

   The Religious Freedom Amendment, House Joint Resolution 78, responds to
   the public's valid concern that our courts have become hostile to
   religion, placing barriers to religious expression which do not exist
   for other forms of free speech.

   A false and impossible standard of unanimity has been created, saying
   that if a single person objects to a prayer or other religious
   expression, then an entire group must be silenced and censored. This is
   the exact opposite of free speech. Free speech exists only when people
   have a right to say something with which others disagree.

   For over 36 years, court decisions have harmed religious freedom in
   America; the Religious Freedom Amendment (RFA) is intended as the
   solution, because the courts have left no other remedy than to amend
   the Constitution. Over 150 Members of the House of Representatives are
   co-sponsoring the RFA. It also is supported by a broad coalition that
   includes Christian groups, and Jewish groups, and Muslim groups.
   Support ranges from America's largest black denomination, the National
   Baptists, to the Salvation Army, Youth for Christ, and the country's
   largest Protestant group, the Southern Baptist Convention, and many
   more.

   Supreme Court rulings on school prayer and other religious issues have
   provoked public outrage since 1962. Throughout the last 36 years,
   public opinion polls consistently show about 75% or more of the
   American public want a constitutional amendment supporting prayer in
   public schools.

   Not since 1971 has such a constitutional amendment been voted upon in
   the House of Representatives. The Senate conducted votes in 1966, 1970,
   and 1984. Obviously, none of those succeeded. Additionally, related
   votes not involving a constitutional amendment have ranged from efforts
   to limit the jurisdiction of the federal courts, to equal access
   proposals, to riders on appropriations bills. (These efforts are
   described in detail in a 1996 report by the Congressional Research
   Service.) In 1997, on March 4^th, the House approved legislation (HCR
   31) to promote display of the Ten Commandments on public property,
   despite Supreme Court rulings to the contrary. It prevailed by 295-125,
   a 70% margin. It was, however, only a resolution of support, not
   changing any statutes or court decisions, much less changing the
   Constitutional language which the courts have misconstrued.

                               Text of the RFA

   The RFA will end 27 years of inaction by the House on a constitutional
   amendment, by adding to our Constitution this language:

   "To secure the people's right to acknowledge God according to the
   dictates of conscience: Neither the United States nor any State shall
   establish any official religion, but the people's right to pray and to
   recognize their religious beliefs, heritage or traditions on public
   property, including schools, shall not be infringed. Neither the United
   States nor any State shall require any person to join in prayer or
   other religious activity, prescribe school prayers, discriminate
   against religion, or deny equal access to a benefit on account of
   religion."

   H.J. Res. 78 also includes the normal protocol for submitting this text
   to the states for ratification, with a seven-year limit on that
   process.

                   About "separation of church and state"

   The phrase "separation of church and state" is a term whose usage has
   been officially condemned by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
   William Rehnquist, and with good reason. He labels it a "mischievous
   diversion of judges from the actual intentions of the drafters of the
   Bill of Rights. . . . a metaphor based on bad history, a metaphor which
   has proved useless as a guide to judging." Rehnquist then stated his
   conclusion: "It should be frankly and explicitly abandoned."^

   The term "separation of church and state" has been frequently used not
   to promote official neutrality toward public religious expression, but
   to promote hostility. Essentially, it suggests that whenever government
   is present, religion must be removed. Unfortunately under this
   philosophy, because government today is found almost everywhere, the
   growth of government dictates a shrinking of religion. "Separation"
   becomes a euphemism for "crowding out" religion.

   A proper analysis should center on the actual text of the Constitution,
   but too often the language of the Constitution is ignored, and is
   replaced with a focus on the catch-phrase "separation of church and
   state." It is cited almost as a mantra, often in an effort to foreclose
   further discussion, and without critical analysis of what the phrase
   actually might mean. That phrase is not found in the Constitution; yet
   it commonly is erroneously treated as the standard measuring stick for
   religious freedom issues.

   A wrongful focus on this term inevitably becomes antagonistic to
   religion, because its premise is that wherever government exists,
   religion must be pushed aside, to maintain the "separation." Since
   American government today is far, far larger than in the days of our
   Founding Fathers, or than in any other era, its expansion automatically
   crowds out religious expression. When government enters, religion must
   exit. Our courts are blazes a wayward trail because they use a broken
   compass, a fact noted by dissenters on the Supreme Court. Chief Justice
   Rehnquist has decried the phrase as a "misleading metaphor" which the
   Court has followed "for nearly forty years."

   After reviewing at great length both the extra-Constitutional origin of
   the phrase, and the history of the development of the First Amendment
   itself, Chief Justice Rehnquist in Wallace v. Jaffree, 472 U.S. 38
   (1985) condemned the reliance on the phrase "separation of church and
   state". Among his comments:

   The evil to be aimed at, so far as those who spoke were concerned [in
   the Congress which approved the First Amendment], appears to have been
   the establishment of a national church, and perhaps the preference of
   one religious sect over another; but it was definitely not concern
   about whether the Government might aid all religions evenhandedly.

                                  * * * * *

   It would seem from this evidence that the Establishment Clause of the
   First Amendment had acquired a well-accepted meaning: it forbade
   establishment of a national religion, and forbade preference among
   religious sects or denominations. Indeed, the first American dictionary
   defined the word "establishment" as "the act of establishing, founding,
   ratifying or ordainin(g,") such as in "[t]he episcopal form of
   religion, so called, in England." 1 N. Webster, American Dictionary of
   the English Language (1^st ed. 1828). The Establishment Clause did not
   require government neutrality between religion and irreligion nor did
   it prohibit the federal government from providing non-discriminatory
   aid to religion. There is simply no historical foundation for the
   proposition that the Framers intended to build the "wall of separation"
   that was constitutionalized in Everson.

                                  * * * * *

   Our recent opinions, many of them hopelessly divided pluralities, have
   with embarrassing candor conceded that the "wall of separation" is
   merely a "blurred, indistinct, and variable barrier," which "is not
   wholly accurate" and can only be "dimly perceived." [Citations
   omitted.]

                                  * * * * *

   But the greatest injury of the "wall" notion is its mischievous
   diversion of judges from the actual intentions of the drafters of the
   Bill of Rights. . . . The "wall of separation between church and State"
   is a metaphor based on bad history, a metaphor which has proved useless
   as a guide to judging. It should be frankly and explicitly abandoned.

                                  * * * * *

   The Framers intended the Establishment Clause to prohibit the
   designation of any church as a "national" one. The Clause was also
   designed to stop the Federal Government from asserting a preference for
   one religious denomination or sect over others. Given the
   "incorporation" of the Establishment Clause as against the States via
   the Fourteenth Amendment in Everson, States are prohibited as well from
   establishing a religion or discriminating between sects. As its history
   abundantly shows, however, nothing in the Establishment Clause requires
   government to be strictly neutral between religion and irreligion, nor
   does that Clause prohibit Congress or the States from pursuing
   legitimate secular ends through nondiscriminatory secular means.

   The Religious Freedom Amendment reflects Rehnquist's analysis as Chief
   Justice of the Supreme Court, and corrects the decisions he criticizes.

   Catch-phrases such as "separation of church and state" have had a
   chilling effect in modern America because government has expanded into
   almost every area of life. If the church must be segregated from
   government, then government's entry into any activity is a de facto
   expulsion of religion from that area. The severity of the problem was
   noted by Pope John Paul II, on greeting the new American ambassador to
   the Vatican in December, 1997, when he stated, "It would truly be a sad
   thing if the religious and moral convictions upon which the American
   experiment was founded could now somehow be considered a danger to free
   society, such that those who would bring these convictions to bear upon
   your nation's public life would be denied a voice in debating and
   resolving issues of public policy. The original separation of Church
   and State in the United States was certainly not an effort to ban all
   religious conviction from the public sphere, a kind of banishment of
   God from civil society."

                     How will the RFA change the outcome

                    of previous Supreme Court decisions?

   As noted in numerous examples, some of which follow, the RFA reflects
   the opinions expressed by many Supreme Court justices prior to the
   Court's detours in recent years, and also reflects the dissenting
   opinions of many Justices during this period. (Often these were 5-4
   decisions, meaning the dissenters were but a single vote short of being
   a majority.) The RFA effectively incorporates (or re-incorporates)
   their arguments into the Constitution.

   The following are some of the key decisions which are affected:

                               Engel v. Vitale

   ---The threshold case of Engel v. Vitale held that government may not
   compose any official prayer or compel joining in prayer. This portion
   of Engel would remain intact. However, that portion of Engel which
   precluded students from engaging in group classroom prayer even on a
   voluntary basis would be corrected by the RFA.

                     Abington School District v. Schemp

   ---Abington School District v. Schemp, to the extent that it prohibited
   the composition or imposition of prayer by an entity of government,
   would remain the law under the RFA. But to the extent that Abington
   broadly permits the Establishment Clause to supersede the Free Exercise
   Clause, it would yield to the standard enunciated in Justice Stewart's
   dissent:

   "It is, I think, a fallacious oversimplification to regard these two
   provisions as establishing a single constitutional standard of
   "separation of church and state," which can be mechanically applied in
   every case to delineate the required boundaries between government and
   religion. We err in the first place if we do not recognize, as a matter
   of history and as a matter of the imperatives of our free society, that
   religion and government must necessarily interact in countless ways.
   Secondly, the fact is that while in many contexts the Establishment
   Clause and the Free Exercise Clause fully complement each other, there
   are areas in which a doctrinaire reading of the Establishment Clause
   leads to irreconcilable conflict with the Free Exercise Clause."

                             Wallace v. Jaffree

   ---The prohibition on silent prayer in public schools, incorporated
   into Wallace v. Jaffree, would be corrected by the RFA. Silent prayer
   (as well as vocal prayer) would be legitimized, so long as there was no
   government dictate either to compel that it occur, or to compel any
   student to participate.

   As Chief Justice Burger stated in his dissent in Wallace v. Jaffree:

   It makes no sense to say that Alabama has "endorsed prayer" by merely
   enacting a new statute "to specify expressly that voluntary prayer is
   one of the authorized activities during a moment of silence, . . . To
   suggest that a moment-of-silence statute that includes the word
   "prayer" unconstitutionally endorses religion, while one that simply
   provides for a moment of silence does not, manifests not neutrality but
   hostility toward religion.

                                  * * * * *

   The notion that the Alabama statute is a step toward creating an
   established church borders on, if it does not trespass into, the
   ridiculous. The statute does not remotely threaten religious liberty;
   it affirmatively furthers the values of religious freedom and tolerance
   that the Establishment Clause was designed to protect. Without
   pressuring those who do not wish to pray, the statute simply creates an
   opportunity to think to plan, or to pray if one wishes . . .

   In Justice Potter Stewart's dissent from Abington, he found permitting
   school prayer is a necessary element of diversity:

   ". . . the duty laid upon government in connection with religious
   exercises in the public schools is that of refraining from so
   structuring the school environment as to put any kind of pressure on a
   child to participate in those exercises; it is not that of providing an
   atmosphere in which children are kept scrupulously insulated from any
   awareness that some of their fellows may want to open the school day
   with prayer, or of the fact that there exist in our pluralistic society
   differences of religious belief."

                               Lee v. Weisman

   ---Graduation prayers (so long as not prescribed by government) would
   be freed of the prohibition in Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.S. 577 (1992).
   Justice Kennedy wrote in that case that the normal expectation of
   respectful silence (which is expected for so many other school
   programs), became coercion when a rabbi offered a graduation prayer,
   because it creates "pressure, though subtle and indirect, . . . as real
   as any overt compulsion."

   The RFA takes issue with Justice Kennedy's view, and instead embodies
   the views of the four Justices who dissented to this 5-4 decision.
   Whether at a graduation or other school setting, the RFA incorporates
   the conclusions of these four Justices (Scalia, Rehnquist, White and
   Thomas) that "hearing" is not "participating" and "hearing" is not
   "joining" in prayer, and thus there was no coercion to pray.

   The Court never explained how expecting respect for a rabbi's prayer at
   graduation is worse or more "coercive" than expecting courtesy and
   quiet for non-religious school presentations, or for the Pledge of
   Allegiance which was also a part of the graduation ceremony. The
   majority, though, turned its back on neutrality by holding that
   expecting courtesy and tolerance is coercive, even though seeking
   respect for non-religious speech was normal and permitted. But because
   Lee v. Wiseman transmuted simple listening into "participation", the
   Religious Freedom Amendment instead requires something greater than
   this before an activity is deemed to be an infringement of rights. The
   RFA applies a simple common-sense standard that makes prayer an
   expressly-permitted activity, so long as actual joining-in and/or
   prescribing of prayer are not required. Listening is not joining and is
   not participating and is not coercion.

   In dissenting to Lee v. Wesiman's 5-4 ruling, Justice Scalia called the
   new "psychological coercion" standard "boundless, and boundlessly
   manipulable". He noted that prayer at school graduations had been
   standard since the first known graduation from a public high school, in
   Connecticut in July 1868. Just as the RFA now does, Justice Scalia and
   the other three dissenting justices distinguished between being present
   and actually joining in a prayer. As these four justices wrote (at
   636):

   . . . According to the [majority opinion of the] Court, students at
   graduation who want "to avoid the fact or appearance of participation,"
   . . . in the invocation and benediction are psychologically obligated
   by "public pressure, as well as peer pressure, . . . to stand as a
   group or, at least, maintain respectful silence" during those prayers.
   This assertion-the very linchpin of the Court's opinion-is almost as
   intriguing for what it does not say as for what it says. It does not
   say, for example, that students are psychologically coerced to bow
   their heads, place their hands in a Durer-like prayer position, pay
   attention to the prayers, utter "Amen," or in fact pray. . . . It
   claims only that students are psychologically coerced "to stand . . .
   or, at least, maintain respectful silence." . . . The Court's notion
   that a student who simply sits in "respectful silence" during the
   invocation and benediction (when all others are standing) has somehow
   joined-or would somehow be perceived as having joined-in the prayers is
   nothing short of ludicrous."

   The standard of Lee v. Weisman's bare 5-4 majority has been dangerous,
   because it declares that simple exposure to religious speech (like
   exposure to pornography) is so inherently damaging that people must be
   protected from it. In the majority opinion, Justice Kennedy wrote (at
   505 U.S. 594), "Assuming, as we must, that the prayers were offensive .
   . .". Even pornography is granted a chance to be measured against
   prevailing community standards; but prayer is assumed automatically to
   be offensive. Lee v. Weisman's subjective standard permits a lone
   "offended" individual to silence all others in a public place, thereby
   censoring their religious expressions.

   The effect of this ruling was to create the dangerous notion of a new
   "freedom from hearing" right which is superior to others' express free
   speech rights under the First Amendment. This is especially insidious
   and chilling when it is used for prior restraint of religious speech.
   It also perpetuates the notion that an offense to a few must be
   corrected, even if doing so gives offense to the vast majority. As
   Justice Kennedy noted (505 U.S. 595), "for many persons an occasion of
   this significance lacks meaning if there is no recognition, however
   brief, that human achievements cannot be understood apart from their
   spiritual essence." But he found that interest immaterial, so long as
   any one person was offended. The four dissenters took a view much more
   in keeping with respecting the rights of all, and not just of a few.
   They noted that, in trying to avoid offense to one student and one
   parent, the Court's anti-graduation prayer ruling ignored the fact that
   it was giving offense to all the other students and parents. They
   stated (at 505 U.S. 645):

   The reader has been told much in this case about the personal interest
   of Mr. Weisman and his daughter, and very little about the personal
   interest on the other side. They are not inconsequential. Church and
   state would not be such a difficult subject if religion were, as the
   Court apparently thinks it to be, some purely personal avocation that
   can be indulged entirely in secret, like pornography, in the privacy of
   one's room. For most believers it is not that, and has never been.
   Religious men and women of almost all denominations have felt it
   necessary to acknowledge and beseech the blessing of God as a people,
   and not just as individuals, because they believe in the "protection of
   divine Providence," as the Declaration of Independence put it, not just
   for individuals but for societies; because they believe God to be, as
   Washington's first Thanksgiving Proclamation put it, the "Great Lord
   and Ruler of Nations." One can believe in the effectiveness of such
   public worship, or one can deprecate and deride it. But the
   longstanding American tradition of prayer at official ceremonies
   displays with unmistakable clarity that the Establishment Clause does
   not forbid the government to accommodate it.

   Lee v. Weisman, in discussing the tradition of graduation prayer, also
   included an interesting note that the practice was part of the first
   known American graduation ceremony. As it noted (at 505 U.S. 635):

   By one account, the first public high school graduation ceremony took
   place in Connecticut in July. 1868 - the very month, as it happens,
   that the Fourteenth Amendment (the vehicle by which the Establishment
   Clause has been applied against the States) was ratified - when "15
   seniors from the Norwich Free Academy marched in their best Sunday
   suits and dresses into a church hall and waited through majestic music
   and long prayers.

   Under the pretense of promoting tolerance, our courts have thus been
   used to promote censorship. The RFA corrects this, protecting the
   rights of both minorities and majorities. The Constitution and the Bill
   of Rights were intended to protect each and every one of us, not merely
   some of us.

                               Stone v. Graham

   ---The ability to post the Ten Commandments on public property (as an
   expression of religious beliefs, heritage or traditions of the people),
   prohibited by Stone v. Graham, becomes protected under the RFA,
   although there would be neither a mandate nor a guarantee that it would
   be proper under all circumstances. But Stone v. Graham's automatic
   prohibition on such a display would be ended.

   Stone's majority decision expressed concern that posting the Ten
   Commandments would "induce the schoolchildren to read, meditate upon,
   perhaps to venerate and obey, the Commandments." But, in dissent, Chief
   Justice Rehnquist noted:

   The Establishment Clause does not require that the public sector be
   insulated from all things which may have a religious significance or
   origin. . . . Kentucky has decided to make students aware of this fact
   by demonstrating the secular impact of the Ten Commandments.

   Chief Justice Rehnquist then quotes from a 1948 opinion by former
   Justice Jackson:

   . . . Perhaps subjects such as mathematics, physics or chemistry are,
   or can be, completely secularized. But it would not seem practical to
   teach either practice or appreciation of the arts if we are to forbid
   exposure of youth to any religious influences. Music without sacred
   music, architecture minus the cathedral, or painting without the
   scriptural themes would be eccentric and incomplete, even from a
   secular point of view. . . . I should suppose it is a proper, if not an
   indispensable, part of preparation for a worldly life to know the roles
   that religion and religions have played in the tragic story of mankind.
   The fact is that, for good or for ill, nearly everything in our culture
   worth transmitting, everything which gives meaning to life, is
   saturated with religious influences, derived from paganism, Judaism,
   Christianity--both Catholic and Protestant-and other faiths accepted by
   a large part of the world's peoples.

                              Lemon v. Kurtzman

   ---Lemon v. Kurtzman and its subjective three-pronged test have often
   been used to achieve a desired result rather than to guide an analysis.
   The Lemon test would necessarily be revised, because a "purely secular"
   objective would no longer be compulsory. Recognition of religious
   heritage, tradition or belief would be a proper objective, so long as
   it did not rise to the level of promoting a particular faith.

                              Allegheny v. ACLU

   ---The case of County of Allegheny v. ACLU, Greater Pittsburgh Chapter,
   would be brought back into line with Lynch v. Donnelly. (Both were 5-4
   decisions.) The so-called "plastic reindeer" test for holiday symbols
   on public property would no longer be decisive. Lynch permitted display
   of a government-owned Nativity scene, whereas Allegheny restricted the
   display of a private creche on public property, citing a need for
   better visual "balance" with secular emblems. It would be no more
   compulsory to add secular items to a religious display than to require
   adding religious symbols to "balance" purely secular displays.

   A truer test would consider whether symbols of differing faiths were
   afforded similar opportunity for display during their special seasons.
   The proper test would be whether government sought to establish an
   official religion, rather than outlawing traditions from a public
   forum.

   The Religious Freedom Amendment would correct the Supreme Court's bias
   that secular symbols, regardless of how perverse, are
   constitutionally-protected for public display, whereas religious
   symbols are considered suspect. The intent of the RFA is to
   re-establish true neutrality, by affording religious expression the
   same equal protection as other expression, rather than the pretense of
   neutrality that too often exists in name only.

   The carryover of true neutrality would extend to other aspects of
   once-common but now-suppressed reflections of beliefs, heritage and
   traditions. School holiday programs would not feel the pressure to
   limit songs to "Frosty the Snowman" or "Rudolph the Red-Nosed
   Reindeer". The carols of Christmas, the hymns of Thanksgiving, the
   songs of Hanukkah, and those of other holidays and other faiths would
   be welcome. Tolerance and understanding would be promoted, rather than
   avoided. The standard would be that reflections of faith, meaning
   minority faiths as well as majority faiths, are clearly permitted, so
   long as it does not progress into advocating or promoting any
   particular faith.

                    Section-by-section review of the RFA:

   Preamble: "To secure the people's right to acknowledge God according to
   the dictates of conscience: . . ."

   The preamble has a purpose. As former Chief Justice Story described the
   nature of a constitutional preamble, "Its true office is to expound the
   nature and extent and application of the powers actually conferred by
   the Constitution, and not substantively to create them." The preamble
   to H.J. Res. 78 serves principally to indicate intent, to assist in
   interpreting the substantive provisions.

   The concept of this particular preamble is attributed chiefly to Forest
   Montgomery, legal counsel for the National Association of Evangelicals.
   There is nothing unique or unusual, however, to have constitutional
   language which expressly mentions God. Such language is the rule, and
   not the exception, in our state constitutions.

   Critics of this mention of God should review the constitutions of our
   50 states. Through these, the American people have freely embraced
   attitudes very different from those expressed by the U.S. Supreme
   Court. All fifty of our states have adopted express and explicit
   mentions of God in their constitutions or preambles. The attached
   Appendix details the express language, from each of the states.

   In Alaska, the constitution states that its citizens are "grateful to
   God and to those who founded our nation . . . , in order to secure and
   transmit to succeeding generations our heritage of political, civil and
   religious liberty". In Colorado, theirs reads, "with profound reverence
   for the Supreme Ruler of the Universe." Idaho states, "grateful to
   Almighty God for our freedom," which is the identical phrase used by
   California, and Nebraska, and New York, and Ohio, and Wisconsin.
   Pennsylvania phrases it as "grateful to Almighty God for the blessings
   of civil and religious liberty, and humbly invoking His guidance."

   Some go even farther. Maryland's Article 36 declares "the duty of every
   man to worship God." Maryland's constitution further states that
   nothing in it shall prohibit references to God or prayer "in any
   governmental or public document, proceeding, activity, ceremony,
   school, institution, or place" and declares that those things are not
   considered to be an establishment of religion. Virginia's refers to the
   "duty which we owe to our Creator" and to the "mutual duty of all to
   practice Christian forbearance, love and charity."

   These references to God are typical of our state constitutions.

   Just as America adopted "In God We Trust" as our national motto, the
   states have mottoes, often incorporated on their state seals. Arizona's
   seal states, "Ditat Deus", meaning "God Enriches." Florida's seal
   states, "In God We Trust." Ohio doesn't put it on a seal, but proclaims
   its motto, "With God, All Things Are Possible."

   The Religious Freedom Amendment echoes the philosophy found in our
   state constitutions, namely that faith guided the creation of America's
   common principles and ideals, and faith is at the core of preserving
   them. It tracks the essence of the Declaration of Independence, wherein
   our Founding Fathers proclaimed that our rights come not from
   government, but from God, declaring, "We hold these truths to be
   self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by
   their Creator with certain unalienable Rights; that among these are
   Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these
   rights, Governments are instituted among Men."

   The Religious Freedom Amendment also applies a phrase common to many of
   the original state constitutions: "according to the dictates of
   conscience". Virginia used it in 1776 as part of its Declaration of
   Rights, proclaiming, "all men are equally entitled to the free exercise
   of religions, according to the dictates of conscience." It appeared
   with slight variations in the original constitutions of Delaware, New
   Jersey and North Carolina (all 1776), Vermont (1777), Massachusetts
   (1780) and New Hampshire (1784). Today, this phrase of "according to
   the dictates of conscience" is echoed in the constitutions of 28
   states-Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas,
   Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,
   Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
   Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas,
   Utah, Vermont, Virginia and Wisconsin.

   It must always be stressed that the Religious Freedom Amendment is not
   intended to override the First Amendment's prohibitions on establishing
   any religion as a state religion and on creating official status for
   any set of beliefs. The RFA would not do this. The preamble's inclusion
   of the phrase, "according to the dictates of conscience," is the first
   of multiple protections within the Religious Freedom Amendment to
   safeguard the rights of religious minorities.

   The term "according to the dictates of conscience" does not, however,
   protect lewd behavior under the claim or pretense of religion. Although
   worded in absolutist fashion, the First Amendment nevertheless yields
   when necessary to avoid "substantial threat to public safety, peace, or
   order". The courts have determined that free exercise of religion is
   not a license to disregard general statutes on behavior, such as those
   against advocating violent overthrow of the government, outlawing
   polygamy, use of illegal drugs, prostitution, and even snake-handling.
   The right to free speech does not permit shouting "Fire!" in a public
   theater, or wanton and intentional libel and slander. Free speech does
   not give students a right to interrupt and usurp class time to speak
   whenever they want about whatever they want. Neither does the RFA. The
   RFA would not permit or sanction disruptive behavior by those wishing
   to pray or to speak about religion. It does not open public schools to
   anyone who might wish to enter to bring in their own religious message.
   Trespass remains trespass. The RFA simply permits religious openness by
   those students who have a right (and usually a legal obligation) to
   attend school.

   "The people's right" is a right held both by individuals and as a
   collective group. The RFA does not, however, create a mechanism for
   government officials to begin dictating wholesale inclusion of
   religious symbols for constant or incessant display on public property,
   because they would remain bound by the First Amendment's prohibition
   against establishing an official religion via government! The RFA
   simply shifts the boundary, away from exclusionism and into greater
   accommocation, but stops well short of actual endorsement of religion.
   It provides a check upon the court challenges which have erroneously
   equated and confused accommodation and recognition with endorsement.

   The RFA would correct the trend of using the Establishment Clause to
   run roughshod over the Free Exercise Clause. The First Amendment
   consciously established a tension by stating not only what government
   could not do, but also stating what the people could do. Our courts
   have instead used it to halt voluntary religious expressions by
   citizens, individually and collectively, whenever government has some
   connection.

   Because the scope and intrusiveness of government into all aspects of
   American society has grown so rapidly, it has become all-pervasive,
   making it a rare occasion when there is no presence of government.
   Accordingly, the judicially-created "wall of separation" has become a
   moving wall. As the presence of government constantly expands, this
   standard crowds out opportunities for religion to be present and to
   flourish. As shown by the recent ruling in City of Boerne v. Flores,
   Archbishop even a church's ability to have room to seat its worshippers
   is subjected to government control. This was never the intention of our
   Founding Fathers.

   The RFA's preamble stresses our shared belief that government should
   accommodate and protect religious freedom, but it simultaneously
   stresses that government should not and must not dictate in regard to
   religion. By concluding with the safeguard of "according to the
   dictates of conscience," the preamble assures that as it protects
   religious expression in public places, it nevertheless cannot be used
   to dictate expression or non-expression of beliefs, nor can it be used
   to favor one religious faith over another.

   Protecting religious expression: " Neither the United States nor any
   State shall establish any official religion, but the people's right to
   pray and to recognize their religious beliefs, heritage or traditions
   on public property, including schools, shall not be infringed. . . ."

                          Never an Official Church

   This phrase draws a clear boundary beyond which government cannot go.
   No public property occasion which recognizes religious beliefs,
   heritage or tradition, and no such exercise of the right to pray shall
   rise to the level of denoting any religion as official. This follows
   the intent of the drafters of the First Amendment, as understood by
   now-Chief Justice William Rehnquist and related in his opinion in
   Wallace v. Jaffree:

   The evil to be aimed at, so far as [its drafters] were concerned,
   appears to have been the establishment of a national church, and
   perhaps the preference of one religious sect over another, but it was
   definitely not concern about whether the Government might aid all
   religions evenhandedly.

   Government should accommodate America's faiths, and the emphasis they
   have always received in this nation's life, but should not be promoting
   any one faith in particular. For example, the RFA would not permit
   government to proclaim officially that the United States is a
   "Christian nation", nor a "Jewish nation," "Muslim nation," nor that of
   any other particular faith. But the supposed accommodation under
   current rulings is typically a pretense, the functional equivalent of
   no accommodation at all.

   The proper standard of accommodation was described by then-Chief
   Justice Warren Burger, in his dissent to Wallace v. Jaffree, 472 U.S.
   38, at 90:

   The statute [permitting a moment of silence, and thus silent prayer, in
   Alabama's public schools] "endorses" only the view that the religious
   observances of other should be tolerated and, where possible,
   accommodated. If the government may not accommodate religious needs
   when it does so in a wholly neutral and noncoercive manner, the
   "benevolent neutrality" that we have long considered the correct
   constitutional standard will quickly translate into the "callous
   indifference" that the Court has consistently held the Establishment
   Clause does not require.

   The Court today has ignored the wise admonition of Justice Goldberg
   that "the measure of constitutional adjudication is the ability and
   willingness to distinguish between real threat and mere shadow.

   The language to permit religious expression on public property is the
   first corrective segment of the RFA; the second is the portion dealing
   with non-discrimination.

   The text of the RFA uses the two-part structure employed by the First
   Amendment, intended to balance freedom from state-imposed religion (via
   the so-called Establishment Clause, "Congress shall make no law
   respecting an establishment of religion . . .") with freedom of
   religion (via the so-called Free Exercise Clause, "or prohibiting the
   free exercise thereof"). The RFA likewise echoes the prohibition on an
   official religion, then follows it with language clearly indicating
   that the intent is not to restrict religion, but to maximize it. The
   RFA's terms are necessarily more explicit than the First Amendment, as
   a necessity to correct court rulings of recent years.

   The RFA reflects former Chief Justice Warren Burger's comments about
   how government should accommodate expressions of religious tradition,
   heritage and belief. As he wrote in Lynch v. Donnelly, 465 U.S. 668, at
   675 (1984) (and before Lynch was undercut by a later 5-4 ruling):

   [t]here is an unbroken history of official acknowledgment by all three
   branches of government of the role of religion in American life from at
   least 1789" and that there are "countless . . . illustrations of the
   Government's acknowledgment of our religious heritage and governmental
   sponsorship of graphic manifestations of that heritage." These
   included, in part:

   --"invocations of Divine guidance in deliberations and pronouncements
   of the Founding Fathers and contemporary leaders";

   --George Washington's designation of a religiously-toned Thanksgiving,
   which 80 years later was made a national holiday;

   --the designation of Christmas as a national holiday and the grant of
   paid leave to public employees on that day;

   --Presidential proclamations commemorating other religious events, such
   as the Jewish High Holy Days;

   --Usage of "In God We Trust" as a national motto, and on coins and
   currency;

   --Display of religious paintings in publicly-supported art galleries
   [to which he could have added the religious overtones of many of the
   depictions in Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol itself].

                            Who Are "The People"?

   The word "people" was purposefully chosen rather than specifying simply
   "a person's right" or "every person's right" to pray, and to recognize
   religious tradition, heritage or belief. In speaking of "the people's
   right", the RFA embodies "people" in both the individual and the
   collective meaning of the word. This is consistent with the dual usage
   already employed by Constitutional references to "the people."

   In its Preamble, the Constitution opens with "We the People", thus
   referring to the collective conduct of the American people acting to
   create their government.

   The First Amendment uses an obviously collective sense of "people" when
   it proclaims "the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to
   petition the government for a redress of grievances."

   The Fourth Amendment employs it to indicate individual rights in
   protecting "The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
   houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
   seizures."

   The Ninth and Tenth Amendments make obvious reference to the collective
   rights of the people, using their instrumentality of government, in
   specifying that "The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain
   rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by
   the people." and that "The powers not delegated to the United States by
   the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to
   the states respectively, or to the people."

                          Protecting Key Decisions

   The RFA is also intended to preserve and protect the precedential value
   of Supreme Court decisions favorable to religious freedom and to
   even-handed treatment of religion, namely Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.S.
   783 (1983) and Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the University of
   Virginia, 115 S. Ct. 2510 (1995). Without the RFA, the future of these
   precedents is problematical, because they are isolated exceptions to
   the trends of the Supreme Court in other religious freedom cases. Their
   viability and precedential value is subject to sudden change by the
   Court, absent the RFA.

   The RFA also cements the precedent of another series of Supreme Court
   decisions, relating to government providing of benefits to students who
   are in parochial schools. That ruling, in the 5-to-4 decision in
   Agostini v. Felton, is discussed as part of the "benefits" clause of
   the RFA, later in this document.

   Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.S. 783 (1983), by 6-to-3 upheld the
   constitutionality of prayers by a government-paid chaplain, at the
   opening of legislative sessions. Rosenberger by a 5-to-4 Court margin
   directed that when a public university funded other student
   publications, it could not refuse to assist one with a Christian
   association.

   These decisions in Marsh v. Chambers and Rosenberger v. Rector are
   protected by the Religious Freedom Amendment, guarding them from the
   vagaries of back-and-forth shifting margins on the Supreme Court.

                       Protecting Rights of the People

   H.J. Res. 78 does not seek to protect religious rights simply by
   restricting the power of government; it also proclaims an affirmative
   right of the people themselves. The Bill of Rights and other
   Constitutional amendments have likewise used both approaches to
   establish and protect rights of the people. The Religious Freedom
   Amendment expressly declares the rights of the people, to make its
   intent clearer to the courts. (But, as previously noted, the absolutist
   statement of an affirmative right does not impede reasonable
   requirements for the time, place and manner of speech. For example, the
   RFA does not give a student any right to disrupt class by spontaneously
   offering a prayer, just as the First Amendment does not give them any
   right to disrupt class by spontaneously launching into any other form
   of speech.)

   "Public property" as used in the RFA is synonymous with "government
   property", but is not limited to real estate. In a proper case, it can
   for example address public property such as a city seal which contains
   a depiction of a community's heritage, traditions or beliefs. Thus, the
   limiting test is to assure that any role of government does not go
   beyond recognizing religious belief, heritage or tradition, and avoids
   becoming the promoting of any religion. The RFA does not repeal the
   Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, but interacts with it,
   restoring the former balance between the Establishment Clause and the
   Free Exercise Clause. Use of public property to go beyond the Equal
   Access Act, to go beyond recognition and into promotion of a religion
   would continue to run afoul of the Establishment Clause of the First
   Amendment.

   Protecting individual conscience and minorities: ". . . Neither the
   United States nor any State shall require any person to join in prayer
   or other religious activity, [or] prescribe school prayers . . ."

   The RFA does contain any language to overturn the First Amendment's
   prohibition on establishing an official religion, neither expressly nor
   impliedly. Nevertheless, it contains protective language as an extra
   safeguard to assure this. The RFA echoes the pattern of the First
   Amendment, with both a prohibition on establishing an official church,
   coupled with guarantees intended to assure maximum religious liberty.

   No school prayer (nor any religious activity) could ever be mandatory;
   the RFA explicitly makes this clear. It demonstrates an abundance of
   caution and concern for religious freedom for all, in particular for
   any who may be in a minority in their area. It does not permit a large
   group to muzzle or suppress a small group; it does not permit a small
   group to muzzle or censor a large group. Nor does it permit anyone to
   compel prayer or other religious conduct by those who do not wish to
   participate.

   Neither the federal nor state government could prescribe prayer. This
   covers both principal definitions of "prescribe". It could not
   "prescribe" prayers, in the sense that it could not direct that they
   occur; under the RFA, that initiative properly comes from students. Nor
   could government "prescribe" prayer, in the sense that it could not
   dictate the content of prayer.

   This language reinforces the "according to the dictates of conscience"
   protection of the RFA's preamble.

   The RFA effectively endorses and follows the standard applied by the
   Supreme Court in West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette.
   There, the Court correctly ruled that no child could or should be
   compelled to say the Pledge of Allegiance. However, the Court did not
   create a right for an objecting student to prohibit their classmates
   from saying the Pledge.

   Providing equal protection: ". . . [Neither the United States nor any
   State shall] . . . discriminate against religion, or deny equal access
   to a benefit on account of religion."

                   Ending Discrimination Against Religion

   Religious symbols and religious behavior are treated by current court
   decisions as being automatically suspect when they occur on public
   property, or in association with a government activity or program. But
   unlike the standard on religion, secular symbols, behavior, or activity
   are not pre-burdened. This discriminatory dual standard is prohibited
   by the RFA. The amendment does not prohibit positive accommodation of
   religion, such as non-profit tax treatment, but focuses instead to bar
   discrimination against religion.

   The Congressional Research Service reported recently on 30 instances of
   federal statutes and regulations which assure that government does not
   subsidize religious practices of receiving organizations. But CRS also
   found an additional 51 federal statutes and regulations which
   disqualify religious organizations or adherents from neutral
   participation in generalized government programs. This discrimination
   needs correction.

   There is a growing recognition that faith-based programs can succeed,
   winning results even when other programs cannot, to combat crime and
   violence, teen pregnancy, welfare dependency, recidivism, and other
   social problems. To disqualify them because of their religious
   component not only violates the notion of neutrality, but denies
   assistance to a great many Americans.

         Neutrality Regarding Benefits-Protecting Fragile Precedents

   The "benefits" provision of the RFA reflects and protects (among other
   policy decisions) two recent Supreme Court decisions. Both were decided
   by 5-4 margins, in an area where the Court still shifts back-and-forth,
   unless the RFA provides an anchor to preserve these fragile rulings.

   The first of these protected holdings is Rosenberger v. Rector and
   Visitors of the University of Virginia, 115 S.Ct. 2510 (1995), holding
   it impermissible viewpoint discrimination to exclude student religious
   publications from the University's general subsidy of student
   publications. The Court concluded that free speech itself was
   threatened if religious speech were singled out for different
   treatment:

   The governmental program at issue is neutral toward religion. Such
   neutrality is a significant factor in upholding programs in the face of
   Establishment Clause attack, and the guarantee of neutrality is not
   offended where, as here, the government follows neutral criteria and
   even-handed policies to extend benefits to recipients whose ideologies
   and viewpoints, including religious ones, are broad and diverse

   The RFA also reflects the philosophy embodied-by a bare margin-in
   Agostini v. Felton, No. 96-552 (June 23, 1997). Agostini by 5-4
   reversed a prior ruling on the same issue (a ruling in Aguilar v.
   Felton, 473 U.S. 402 (1985)), which likewise was decided by 5-4). The
   Court justified the reversal because the Court had also reversed two
   prior opinions on crucial points. Those cases likewise turned on
   margins of 5-4 in one instance and also 5-4 in the other! What the
   Court gives, the Court can take away tomorrow, especially on 5-4
   decisions! The RFA protects these important decisions from such
   judicial schizophrenia.

   In Agostini v. Felton, the Supreme Court ruled that New York City may
   use federal Title I funds to provide special teachers on the premises
   of parochial schools, to give supplemental and remedial instruction to
   disadvantaged children.

   The Court opined that there were sufficient safeguards to assure that
   sectarian schools would not have a profit motive to provide religious
   instruction. It added:

   First, the Court has abandoned Ball's presumption that public employees
   placed on parochial school grounds will inevitably inculcate religion
   or that their presence constitutes a symbolic union between government
   and religion. Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School Dist., 509 U.S. 1,
   12-13. No evidence has ever shown that any New York City instructor
   teaching on parochial school premises attempted to inculcate religion
   in students. Second, the Court has departed from Ball's rule that all
   government aid that directly aids the educational function of religious
   schools is invalid. Other Establishment Clause cases before and since
   have examined the criteria by which an aid program identifies its
   beneficiaries to determine whether the criteria themselves have the
   effect of advancing religion by creating a financial incentive to
   undertake religious indoctrination. Cf. e.g., Witters, supra, at 488;
   Zobrest, supra, at 10. Such an incentive is not present where, as here,
   the aid is allocated on the basis of neutral, secular criteria that
   neither favor nor disfavor religion, and is made available to both
   religious and secular beneficiaries on a nondiscriminatory basis.

          Neutrality Regarding Benefits-Protecting Current Policies

   In addition to the Supreme Court precedents of Rosenberger and of
   Agostini, the "benefits" provision of the RFA protects other current
   policy. For example, the RFA's "benefits" provision protects these
   existing programs: Over a billion dollars each year in federal grants
   goes to Catholic Charities USA for various social services, ranging
   from shelters for the homeless, to aid to refugees and to unwed
   mothers. Over a billion dollars each year is spent on GI Bill education
   benefits, over $7-billion to federal Pell Grants to students,
   $23-billion a year in federally-guaranteed student loans, and
   $17-billion a year in direct lending to students, all of which may be
   used at private and church schools, as well as at public schools.

   The RFA does not permit any appropriation or other funding for
   religious activities. Government funding for a religious purpose would
   still be banned by the prohibition on official religion found both in
   the First Amendment and in the RFA. However, once a government program
   was established, to accomplish a governmental purpose, participants
   could not be disqualified on the basis of religion or religious
   affiliation.

   Other illustrations of the current problem (and the not-clearly-settled
   law in light of 5-4 Supreme Court rulings):

   --Although the case was ultimately settled, the Federal Communications
   Commission denied a federal grant to Fordham University, because its
   campus station included a religious program on Sunday mornings. The
   federal district court sided with the FCC that Fordham was disqualified
   by supposed church-state considerations. The RFA will prevent such
   injustices in the future.

   --Provisions of state constitutions have been used to deny using
   general benefit programs when there was any connection with a religious
   institution. Again, the RFA will rectify this, because it applies at
   both the federal and the state levels.

   --After the Oklahoma City bombing, it was reported that HUD attorneys
   almost denied nearby churches the ability to receive bombing repair
   money, on the same basis as other damaged property, because of
   "separation of church and state" concerns. Again, the RFA protects the
   ability to participate on an equal and non-discriminatory basis.

   The "benefits" language does not guarantee any benefit to any person or
   group. Instead, it assures "equal access" if and when some benefit is
   made available for a permitted governmental purpose. For example, the
   RFA does not create a program of vouchers for education. If and when a
   unit of government chose to create them, however, the RFA would simply
   assure that all individuals and private entities are afforded equal
   access to them. This is the identical standard already utilized in
   federal student loan programs and the G-I Bill.

   Private institutions, including those affiliated with churches, should
   be permitted to participate under the same standards as public
   institutions. For example, neither the University of Notre Dame nor
   Boston College are disqualified from federal education programs for
   being Catholic, nor is any other school disqualified on the basis of
   religion. This is a proper standard which has proven workable, which
   should be applied uniformly, and which should be protected from the
   uncertainty of the Supreme Court rulings in this area.

                                 Conclusion

   Rather than promoting understanding, recent decades of current Supreme
   Court decisions have promoted the opposite. A correct standard of
   tolerance would accept the benefits of listening respectfully to other
   views, rather than using the courts to silence them.

   As four current Supreme Court justices have expressed:

   . . . nothing, absolutely nothing, is so inclined to foster among
   religious believers of various faiths a toleration-no, an affection-for
   one another than voluntarily joining in prayer together, to the God
   whom they all worship and seek. Needless to say, no one should be
   compelled to do that, but it is a shame to deprive our public culture
   of the opportunity, and indeed the encouragement, for people to do it
   voluntarily. The Baptist or Catholic who heard and joined in the simple
   and inspiring prayers of Rabbi Gutterman on this occasion was
   inoculated from religious bigotry and prejudice in a manner that cannot
   be replicated. To deprive our society of that important unifying
   mechanism, in order to spare the nonbeliever what seems to me the
   minimal inconvenience of standing or even sitting in respectful
   nonparticipation, is as senseless in policy as it is unsupportable in
   law.

   The wayward state of Supreme Court decisions has been decried by Chief
   Justice Rehnquist:

   George Washington himself, at the request of the very Congress which
   passed the Bill of Rights, proclaimed a day of "public thanksgiving and
   prayer, to be observed by acknowledging with grateful hearts the many
   and signal favors of Almighty God." History must judge whether it was
   the father of his country in 1789, or a majority of the Court today,
   which has strayed from the meaning of the Establishment Clause."

   The American people have never accepted the Supreme Court's extra
   burdens levied against school prayer and against religious freedoms
   during the past 36 years. It has been 27 years since this House has
   acted upon the necessary constitutional amendment to correct this, and
   the time to remedy that is now. The Religious Freedom Amendment should
   be adopted.

   For a list of references to God in state constitutions, please see the
   addendum.

   For a full copy of the document, including footnotes, download the Word
   document.

                                 [seal.gif]
                                  [mb1.gif]
