http://eas.oes.ca.gov/Pages/whatseas.htm

   California - The Golden State   California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                        Page

                                What is EAS?

   The EAS is the long awaited 1997 upgrade to the 1964 EBS - the
   Emergency Broadcast System.

   The EAS is the fastest, cheapest, and the most effective means of
   warning the public-bar none!

    The EBS was originally created to enable Federal authorities to warn
   the American public of a national emergency via the nation's broadcast
   stations and other communications resources. It was subsequently
   expanded to enable the National Weather Service and local civil defense
   authorities to warn the public of any threat to the public health,
   safety, and welfare. The EBS was never used for an actual National
   emergency but it has been used thousands of times to warn of local,
   natural, or manmade threats.

    The old EBS required that an official call the primary EBS station
   with the warning message. That primary station, in turn, would activate
   special EBS tones that would unlock EBS alert decoders in every radio
   and television station tuned to that station. The FCC required every
   broadcast station to buy and maintain such equipment.

   There were several problems with the EBS that grew over the years:

    * First, the threat of a national emergency diminished.
   * Second, many states didn't utilize the benefits of the EBS for local
   emergencies.
   * Third, more and more broadcast stations were allowed to operate
   unattended thereby making the relay of any warning message impossible.
   Even if a station was attended, if the control operator stepped out of
   the room when an alert came in, the operator was not there to manually
   handle it.
   * Fourth, the long, obnoxious EBS tones used in the weekly tests served
   to drive listeners away to other stations.
   * Fifth, listeners could have a false sense of security about a system
   that local officials never planned to use or failed to use.
   * Sixth, and perhaps one of the most important weaknesses, was that the
   EBS depended upon the domino theory; i.e., if the primary station
   failed for any reason, none of the other broadcasters could receive and
   retransmit the warning.

   1997 heralded the upgrade of the venerable EBS into the digital
   communications age and automation. In other words, there will still be
   the verbal warning message but it will be accompanied by digital bursts
   that do many things. The digital header contains the type of warning,
   for what county or counties, a date/time stamp, and the issuing
   authority. The FCC regulations require that every broadcaster receive a
   minimum of two radio signals. Many stations are equipped for four or
   six or more. This means that a warning message may be relayed from
   several sources-no more "dominoes." The EAS becomes a web. The "smarts"
   within an EAS decoder rejects duplicates so that there should be no
   danger of multiple activation's for the same event.

   Equally important is that the EAS enables any radio station to
   automatically put that warning message over the air without any human
   intervention. This means that, whether the station is attended or not,
   that warning will be broadcast to its audience. It is predicted that
   over 80% of the nation's broadcasters will opt for this automatic "loop
   through" for EAS warning bulletins.

    Because the EAS has the ability to provide the message digitally, this
   enables it to be carried by television stations and cable television
   companies. Television stations are not required to place additional
   text or instructions on the screen for the hearing impaired, but the
   State of California has facilitated this with a cooperative joint
   industry-government supported system called the EDIS (Emergency Digital
   Information Service.) The EDIS complements, but is not a part of, the
   FCC-mandated Emergency Alert System.

    CATV companies will become FCC-required participants in the EAS.

    There is a new requirement in the EAS regulations-a coordinated,
   monthly test that includes every AM, FM and TV station. The
   broadcasters are given the option to automatically relay or delay the
   monthly broadcast but by no more than 15 minutes. To best test the
   system end to end, it is recommended that the Required Monthly Test
   originate from time to time from an Emergency Operations Center. Thus
   all participants are trained: the county emergency management people,
   all of the broadcasters and CATV firms, and the public.

    All new EAS Plans are required by the FCC. Every state is divided into
   one or more Local Areas. The larger a state's geography, the more Local
   Area plans must be accomplished. The Plan should be simple, accurate,
   and easy to follow. Together, the Local Plans constitute the State
   Plan. There are several formats; some are simple and some are not. We
   support a format for a State EAS Plan that has two parts. Part I is the
   introduction, general description, glossary, and other non-perishable
   information. The standard operating procedures, any perishable,
   changeable information, and data always goes into Part II. Part II is
   comprised of separately numbered Communications Operations Orders or
   COOs.

   Writing plans is not usually a broadcaster's strong suit. To facilitate
   writing a plan we start first with the "LECCQ" --- the Local Emergency
   Communications Committee Questionnaire. A copy of the LECCQ will be
   found on this Web Page or from the author. If an LECCQ is properly
   completed, the COOs (the heart of any EAS Plan) can be easily written
   --- even by someone 5,000 miles away!

    Here is how we have standardized the COOs for any FCC Local Area:

    COO#1: MONITOR ASSIGNMENTS
   a. Identify the LP1s. (Call letters, frequency)
   b. Identify the LP2s. (ditto)
   c. Identify the/any LP1S (Spanish), etc.
   d. NWR (National Weather Radio) channel(s)
   e. CLERS (This is the California Law Enforcement Radio System, a
   statewide, microwave-linked Police Radio Service system used for local
   and State EAS activations. In your locality it could be a similar
   government radio system. Using such systems for the EAS meets all FCC
   eligibility requirements. We recommend strongly against the use of any
   RPU frequency.)
   f. Other radio channels.

    COO#2: EVENT CODES
   Here is where you (the LECC) selects and identifies those Event Codes
   you agree and recommend should be in the "must carry" category. This
   includes, of course, EVI and CEM.

    COO#3: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
   This is a two-part COO, Part "A" usually states that broadcasters and
   CATV firms are normally served by NOAA Weather Radio (NWR). Part "B"
   spells how exactly, step by step, how the NWS telephones the LP1 with
   any Warnings when the NWR is off the air --- or in those areas where
   there is no NWR service at all.

    COO#4: LP1/LP2 STATIONS
   This describes the exact role and responsibilities of any LP1 and LP2
   stations.

    COO#5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTIVATIONS AND OFFICIALS AUTHORIZED TO
   ACTIVATE THE EAS
   Part "A" instructs those authorized precisely how to activate the EAS
   by telephone or EAS terminal. It includes a statement about the
   requirement for them to upload the same message to the EDIS. (Emergency
   Digital Information Service, a computer-to-radio system delivers text
   to TV stations and their character generators. It is essential that TV
   stations provide clear text to the hearing impaired and others for any
   EAS activation.) Part "B" is a list of the local officials authorized
   to activate the EAS. The list should be as short as possible.

    COO#6: REQUIRED MONTHLY TEST (RMT)
   This gives the day of the month and time selected by the LECC. The RMT
   must be carried by all stations within 15 minutes of receipt. The COO
   includes the RMT script.

    COO#7. AUTHENTICATION
   This COO is last because not all Local Areas have a need to
   authenticate telephonic activation requests. Radio transmissions and
   hard copy do not require authentication. FAX, not encouraged and seldom
   used, does require authentication. Typical authentication requires
   matching numbers with code words.

   A participant need post only the COO(s) that applies to them and file
   away the rest of the Plan. COOs can be amended overnight. The Local
   Area COOs then become a part of the State Plan. Thus your EAS Plan need
   never be out of date. You may like this approach in your state.

   State and local emergency management officials should be members of the
   state and local FCC committees. How can an EAS be successful without
   them?

   * Email: EAS_PM@oes.ca.gov
   * FAX 916-845-8606
   * Telephone: 916-845-8603
   * Mail: P.O. Box 419047, Rancho Cordova CA 95741-9047

    Return to the EAS Home Page

   _________________________
   Updated:  TPP - 20020129
