http://www.placer.ca.gov/policies/disclaimer.htm


         Air Pollution Control District
            Clean Air Funding Grants

                                       Search Site __________ submit


   Snow blankets Lake Tahoe Placer County, California -- where everyone
   would like to live A wonderful area to ...
       • Visit and play
         • Live and raise a family
           • Locate a business


        About Our
        County   Departments  Board of
                             Supervisors  Economic
                                         Development  County
                                                     Services How to
                                                              Find?

                      Placer County Web Site Disclaimer

                                    Line

Disclaimer of Liability

   The County of Placer and its content contributors shall be not held
   liable for any improper or incorrect use of the information or services
   on this Web site and assume no responsibility for anyone's use of the
   information or services. The County of Placer and its content
   contributors shall not be held liable for any direct or indirect
   damages caused in any way through the use of information or services on
   this Web site. This includes but is not limited to procurement or
   substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or
   business interruption. This disclaimer of liability applies to any
   damages or injury which may be perceived by you, the Web user, to be
   caused by the information or services on this Web site, or by using
   this Web site.

Indemnification

   You agree to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the County of Placer,
   its Web content contributors, its agencies, officials and employees
   from all claims and expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising from
   the use of the information or services on this Web site; by your using
   this Web site; or by its use through your Internet account.

Disclaimer of Warranties/Accuracy of Data

   Although an effort is made to assure the accuracy and completeness of
   the information provided on the county's Web site, Placer County makes
   no express or implied warranty as to the accuracy, adequacy,
   completeness, legality, reliability or usefulness of the Web site's
   information. The County of Placer provides this information and all
   online services on an "as is" basis. While there may be changes to
   county information on topics covered on the Web site, these changes may
   or may not be made available on the Web site.

   If you have obtained information from the Placer Greater Collaborative
   Web site from a Web server source other than the Placer Greater
   Collaborative Web site host server, be aware that Web page content or
   services can be altered or changed after they are first made available
   on the Web. Placer County recommends that you pay careful attention to
   the contents of any metadata (support data) associated with a file, and
   you contact the provider of the data or information directly with any
   questions before using the data.

   If you find any errors or omissions, please report them to the web
   manager for the Placer County Web site (webmanager@placer.ca.gov).

Disclaimer of Endorsement

   The County of Placer is a distributor of content sometimes supplied by
   third parties and other users. Any opinions, advice, statements,
   services, offers, or other information or content expressed or made
   available by third parties, including information providers, users, or
   others, are not those of Placer County, but are those of the respective
   author(s) or distributor(s). The content does not necessarily reflect
   the views, policies or practices of the County of Placer, or its
   agencies, officials or employees.

   Any reference on the Placer County Web site to any specific commercial
   product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or
   otherwise, is not an endorsement or recommendation. Any reference shall
   not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

Disclaimer for Hypertext Links

   The County of Placer and its contributors are not responsible for the
   contents of any off-site pages linked from the county Web site. As a
   user of the county Web site, you specifically acknowledge that the
   County of Placer and its contributors are not liable for any
   defamatory, offensive, or illegal conduct of other users, links, or
   third parties and that the risk of injury from all off-site content
   mentioned here rests entirely with you, the Web site user.

   Links from the Placer County Web site to other sites do not constitute
   an endorsement from the County of Placer. These links are provided as a
   convenience for county Web site users and as an information service
   only. As a Web user, it is your responsibility to determine the content
   and usefulness of information you find on other sites.

Disclaimer of Duty to Continue Providing Data

   Due to the rapidly changing nature of the World Wide Web and the
   Internet, online resources that are free and publicly available one day
   may require a fee or restrict user access the next. In addition, the
   location of information, services or Web pages may change as menus,
   home pages, and files are updated or reorganized. You expressly agree
   that use of the Placer County Web site is at your sole risk. Neither
   the County of Placer, its content providers, agencies, officials or
   employees guarantee that the service will be uninterrupted or
   error-free.

Choice of Law

   Information in this disclaimer is governed by the laws of the State of
   California. Any dispute arising from the use of information or services
   provided on the Placer County Web site will be governed by the laws of
   the State of California.

                                    Line

   Home | Search | About County | Depts | Board | Econ Develop | Services
                                | Find Info.?

                          Placer County, California
                          Telephone (530) 889-4000
     Contact Placer County || Disclaimer || Privacy Statement || Espanol


   Copyright © 1997-2002, Placer County, California. All rights reserved.
   Photos and text remain the property of their respective owners. Site
   updated 1/29/02
