http://www.fbi.gov/pressrel/pressrel01/reorg120301.htm

   U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation

   For Immediate Release
     December 3, 2001

   Washington D.C.
     FBI National Press Office


     Photograph of Director Mueller
     Reorganization Chart
     Expanded Breakdown of Reorganization
     BIOS of Executive Assistant Directors

     Congress approved, and today the Director implemented, a
     restructuring plan for Headquarters, Federal Bureau of Investigation
     (FBI), the first step in what will be a phased process of
     reorganizing assets, modernizing and integrating new technology, and
     consolidating functions. This reorganization was considered and
     approved by the Attorney General's Strategic Management Council and
     will serve as the foundation as the FBI redefines priorities and
     missions in the coming months.

     This reorganization, the need for which is widely accepted within
     the FBI community, is consistent with the recommendations from
     several studies and inquiries, and recognizes new challenges and
     responsibilities. Among other things, it seeks to increase the
     emphasis in counterterrorism, counterintelligence, cybercrimes, and
     relations with state and local law enforcement. It also seeks to
     provide the vehicle for a vastly enhanced information technology
     upgrade, expanded training for the FBI workforce at all levels,
     improved security, and improved capabilities for FBI investigators,
     analysts, forensic examiners, and other specialists.

     The major elements of the first phase of the Headquarters
     reorganization effort include the creation of four new Executive
     Assistant Director positions to oversee key FBI functions.

     The positions and their designated heads include:
     * Executive Assistant Director for Criminal Investigations - To be
       headed by Ruben Garcia, Jr., 23-year FBI veteran who was formerly
       the Assistant Director of the Criminal Investigative Division.
     * Executive Assistant Director for
       Counterterrorism/Counterintelligence - To be headed by Dale L.
       Watson, currently the Assistant Director for the Counterterrorism
       Division. Mr. Watson entered the Bureau in 1978 and has served
       continually in intelligence and counterterrorism roles since 1982.
       In 1996, he was named the Deputy Chief of the CIA's
       Counterterrorist Center at CIA Headquarters.
     * Executive Assistant Director for Law Enforcement Services - To be
       headed by 23-year veteran Kathleen L. McChesney. Currently the
       Assistant Director of the FBI Training Division, she has served as
       Special Agent in Charge of the Portland, Oregon and Chicago Field
       Offices.
     * Executive Assistant Director for Administration - To be headed by
       Robert J. Chiaradio, currently an assistant to FBI Director Robert
       Mueller. A veteran of the FBI since 1984, Chiaradio was previously
       the Special Agent in Charge of the Tampa Field Office and the Chief
       of Staff for the FBI Deputy Director.

     FBI divisions and offices will realign under one of these four
     Executive Assistant Directors who report through the offices of the
     Director/Deputy Director. This reorganization step effectively
     narrows the supervisory span of control and will greatly increase
     efficiency, accountability and oversight.

     Two new divisions have also been created to increase emphasis on
     computer-facilitated crimes and security. The Cybercrime Division
     will address intellectual property investigations, as well as high
     tech and computer crimes. The Security Division will be responsible
     for ensuring the integrity of FBI employees, contractors, visitors,
     information systems, and facilities.

     Also a part of this phase of reorganization is the opening of four
     new offices: Law Enforcement Coordination for improving FBI
     coordination with state and local law enforcement and information
     sharing; Chief Technology Officer reporting directly to the Office
     of the Director and charged with the implementation of the ongoing
     critical information technology projects; Office of Records
     Management whose function is the modernization of FBI records,
     including management policies and processes; and the Intelligence
     Office charged with enhancing analytical and intelligence
     capabilities, particularly in the critical counterterrorism and
     counterintelligence areas.

     The Investigative Services Division will be disbanded as a result of
     this reorganization and its important responsibilities and assets
     integrated into current or newly created components as appropriate.

     Attached to this release is an expanded breakdown of the
     Headquarters Phase I reorganization, an organizational chart showing
     the new realignments and biographical information on the newly
     appointed Executive Assistant Directors.

     The second phase of Headquarters reorganization, which will deal
     with changes at the Divisional and Office levels of the FBI, will
     focus on such areas as eliminating duplication, consolidating
     functions, and realigning resources.

     When coupled with new hiring priorities aimed at special skill sets,
     workforce development initiatives, and a particular emphasis on
     developing an overarching leadership climate at every level of
     Bureau operations, Phase II reorganization promises measurable
     enhancements in tune with new law enforcement challenges and
     realities.

     The reorganization of FBI Headquarters is part of the Director's
     comprehensive plan to address not only the new challenges of
     terrorism, but to modernize and streamline the Bureau's more
     traditional functions so that it may better serve not only its law
     enforcement partners, but the nation.

   Graphic Bar
                   | 2001 Press Releases | FBI Home Page |
