http://pr.aoa.gov/pressroom/Pr2002/HHSin2001-factsheet.html

   0- Home Quick Index Site Index Press Room What's New Search E-Mail AoA
                                                               -

   HHS Fact Sheet

   For Immediate Release: December 31, 2001
   Contact: HHS Press Office (202) 690-6343
   _____________________________________________________________________

                     HHS IN 2001: A YEAR OF ACHIEVEMENTS
   _____________________________________________________________________

   Overview: The events of Sept. 11, 2001, brought many unforeseen and
   unprecedented challenges to the American people, calling on the reserve
   of public health officials, hospital workers, emergency personnel and
   the nation's citizens in response to terrorist attacks in New York
   City, Washington, D.C., and Somerset, Pa. The public health response
   was a defining moment in history as HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson
   deployed health personnel from around the nation, activated the first
   use of the country's National Pharmaceutical Stockpile, provided
   special funding assistance, and in the wake of attacks, convened a
   national summit on mental health. Scientific leadership was called upon
   once again as officials from the Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention (CDC) investigated anonymous anthrax attacks surreptitiously
   delivered through the U.S. mail system.

   Secretary Thompson, sworn in as Secretary of Health and Human Services
   on Feb. 2, 2001, navigates the department's broad response to terrorism
   and continues to ensure that critical health programs and initiatives
   are established and put into place, a need that is stronger today than
   ever. With a fiscal year 2001 budget of $429 billion, HHS took vital
   steps to protect Americans this year:
     * A record budget request for the National Institutes of Health
       (NIH), helping to advance biomedical research. The President's NIH
       Budget request for fiscal year 2002 was $23 billion, a 13.5 percent
       increase over fiscal year 2001- the largest single year dollar
       increase in the institute's history;
     * A reorganization of the Medicare and Medicaid agency to increase
       responsiveness, customer service and the flow of needed health
       information to beneficiaries;
     * A multi-faceted disease Prevention Initiative designed to help all
       Americans achieve their full potential for health and wellness,
       focusing on critical health areas, such as obesity, diabetes and
       health disparities;
     * A new action plan to strengthen protections against BSE, or mad cow
       disease. The plan is a joint effort between the Food and Drug
       Administration (FDA), CDC and NIH.

              HHS RESPONDS TO TERRORISM AND PROTECTS AMERICANS

   On September 11, HHS acted instantly to support the health care and
   emergency needs of New York, Washington, D.C., and Somerset, Pa. When
   anthrax mail attacks occurred, HHS agencies delivered the health and
   scientific leadership that prevented more lives from being lost. For
   comprehensive information, visit
   http://www.hhs.gov/hottopics/healing/biological.html.

   HHS Rushes Disaster Assistance to Overwhelmed Areas. Within minutes of
   the Sept. 11 attacks, HHS Secretary Thompson declared a national health
   emergency and placed the National Disaster Medical System (NDMS) ready
   for deployment. Beginning that day, the HHS Office of Emergency
   Preparedness (OEP) deployed more than 1,000 medical and support
   personnel from around the nation to support the overwhelmed local
   resources. Some 50 tons of backup medical supplies were provided to New
   York on Sept. 11. More than $126 million in financial relief for local
   health and emergency entities was announced Sept. 21, part of the
   President's relief efforts.

   HHS Agencies Protect Americans in Anthrax Attacks. For the first time
   in history, anthrax was used in mail attacks. The surreptitious attacks
   were discovered early, with leadership from HHS' Centers for Disease
   Control and Prevention, which alerted state and local health agencies
   on Sept. 11 to be watchful for unusual symptoms. Operating in uncharted
   medical terrain, CDC acted quickly to prevent even more people from
   being sickened, by developing and refining new recommendations on use
   of antibiotics to protect those who might have been exposed. Fast
   action by the Food and Drug Administration helped ensure that adequate
   supplies of effective antibiotics would be available. HHS provided
   hundreds more support personnel as well as thousands of antibiotic
   doses to back up local health departments in treating those who might
   have been exposed. CDC issued a series of national health alerts to
   ensure that health departments were aware of the latest actions and
   recommendations. With teams dispatched to help local health departments
   deal with anthrax situations, CDC also investigated numerous reports in
   other states, which proved to be negative. CDC and its partner labs
   worked around the clock to test samples and protect the public. HHS'
   OEP sent personnel from the NDMS and the Public Health Service
   Commissioned Corps Readiness Force to test and provide medications to
   Capitol Hill staff.

   HHS Builds Bioterrorism Force. On November 1, 2001, Secretary Thompson
   named Donald A. Henderson, M.D., to serve as director of a newly
   created Office of Public Health Preparedness, which coordinates
   national response to public health emergencies. Henderson, who was
   previously director of the Center for Civilian Biodefense Studies at
   John Hopkins University, also directed the World Health Organization's
   global smallpox eradication campaign and was instrumental in initiating
   WHO's global program on immunization. Additionally, Phillip Russell, a
   retired U.S. Army major general who directed the Army's Medical
   Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, joined HHS as special
   advisor on vaccine development and production. Rounding out the team is
   Scott Lillibridge, the Secretary's special assistant on bioterrorism.
   Lillibridge is a physician and has coordinated CDC's bioterrorism
   preparedness and response program since 1998.

   HHS Makes Unprecedented Investment. HHS negotiated purchases of more
   than a billion doses of antibiotics and 155 million doses of smallpox
   vaccine, to be fully prepared for the possibility of future
   bioterrorist attacks. Purchases would also expand the number of
   emergency "Push Packages" in the National Pharmaceutical Stockpile. HHS
   continued funding local emergency preparedness efforts in American
   cities, and the President proposed $1.5 billion in new spending to
   prepare for bioterrorism, including $300 million for support of state
   and local efforts and strengthening the national health information and
   laboratory network.

   HHS Addresses the Nation's Mental Health and Substance Abuse Needs.
   Secretary Thompson convened a national summit in New York City on
   November 14-16, 2001, to examine and enhance the local, state and
   federal role in addressing the mental health and substance abuse needs
   of individuals and communities before, during, and after acts and
   threats of terrorism. Forty-two governor appointed state teams of
   mental health, substance abuse and related health and human services
   professionals attended the summit. Five U.S. territories and the
   District of Columbia as well as over 100 representatives of national
   public service, faith, and community organizations also participated in
   the summit. The summit was sponsored by HHS' Substance Abuse and Mental
   Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The state teams met and
   refined their current disaster plans to ensure readiness of mental
   health and substance abuse services for the ongoing war on terrorism
   and in the event of future attacks on the homeland.

   HHS Supports Bioterrorism Bill. HHS worked with Congress toward
   legislation to bolster national efforts to combat bioterrorist attacks
   and prepare for public health emergencies. The Public Health Security
   and Bioterrorism Response Act of 2001will authorize expansion of
   national stockpiles of medicines and supplies, support for local
   communities and hospitals and for CDC to upgrade facilities, and funds
   for FDA to increase food safety measures.

   HHS Acts to Ensure Protection for the Future. CDC is also working with
   state and local officials on a new Model Emergency Health Powers Act.
   The goal is to strengthen the nation's public health infrastructure by
   developing a consensus-based model of legislation to assist states that
   are considering creating and implementing new emergency public health
   legislation. States may then tailor model legislation to meet their
   individual needs and to help protect their citizens.

                     HHS UNVEILS NEW INITIATIVES IN 2001

   Under the leadership of Secretary Thompson, HHS has implemented several
   initiatives to improve overall public health, and the level of
   excellence in HHS performance.

   HHS Prevention Initiative. In 2001, Secretary Thompson unveiled three
   initial campaigns of a multi-faceted Prevention Initiative, aimed at
   helping Americans achieve their full potential for health and wellness
   through adopting healthy lifestyle behaviors:
     * Call to Action on Overweight and Obesity. On December 13, 2001, HHS
       released "The Surgeon General's Call to Action to Prevent and
       Decrease Overweight and Obesity," which outlines strategies that
       communities can use in helping to address the problem of increased
       obesity levels in the U.S. Those options include requiring physical
       education at all school grades, providing more healthy food options
       on school campuses, and providing safe and accessible recreational
       facilities for residents of all ages. In 1999, an estimated 61
       percent of U.S. adults were overweight, along with 13 percent of
       children and adolescents. Obesity among adults has doubled since
       1980, while overweight among adolescents has tripled. To view the
       report, visit http://www.surgeongeneral.gov/topics/obesity/.
     * Closing the Health Gap Campaign. HHS and ABC Radio Networks on
       December 1, 2001, launched Closing the Health Gap, a national
       campaign to bring the best health information to African American
       communities and help consumers take charge of their health. Through
       public service announcements, clearinghouses and the new Closing
       the Health Gap Web site, African Americans will find information
       about critical health disparity areas, such as diabetes, heart
       disease, cancer, stroke, infant mortality and HIV/AIDS. Visit the
       Web site at http://www.healthgap.omhrc.gov/.
     * Diabetes Education Program for Older Americans. On May 3, 2001, The
       National Diabetes Education Program (NDEP), a joint federal program
       run by NIH and CDC, joined forces with the Centers for Medicare &
       Medicaid Services (CMS) to help older adults understand that
       routine self-monitoring of blood sugar levels can help delay or
       prevent the complications of diabetes. The NDEP is working with CMS
       to reach Americans 65 years and older as well as younger people
       with disabilities who have diabetes with information on the
       treatment and benefits available for people with Medicare. An
       estimated 4.5 million Medicare beneficiaries have diabetes. HHS'
       Administration on Aging is assisting with dissemination of campaign
       information through its preventive health programs across the
       states and local communities.

   HHS Initiative to Reduce Regulatory Burden. This year, Secretary
   Thompson announced the creation of a cross-departmental Task Force on
   Regulatory Reform to reduce regulatory burdens in health care and
   respond faster to states and the concerns of health care providers,
   state and local governments, and individual Americans affected by HHS.

   HHS Rural Task Force. HHS is addressing the special challenges
   associated with providing health and social services to residents of
   rural and isolated areas. In July 2001, Secretary Thompson announced
   the creation of the HHS Rural Task Force that focuses on existing
   health and social service programs serving rural communities;
   administrative, regulatory and statutory barriers to serving persons in
   rural communities; and the impact of HHS funding on rural economies.
   This group will also make recommendations to strengthen health care and
   social services and their delivery system infrastructures in rural
   America.

   Safe and Stable Families Initiative. President Bush's proposal to
   reauthorize and expand the Promoting Safe and Stable Families program
   was passed by the Congress and cleared for the President's signature
   December 13, 2001. This legislation expands services to strengthen
   families, creates and expands mentoring programs for children whose
   parents are in prison, and enhances educational opportunities for
   children leaving foster care. More specifically, the bill reauthorizes
   and substantially expands the resources available to states and Indian
   Tribes to strengthen families at risk and ensure the safety and
   permanency of placements of vulnerable children through the Promoting
   Safe and Stable Families program. The legislation authorizes the
   Promoting Safe and Stable Families program at $505 million a year, an
   historic increase in spending of $200 million annually, and
   specifically allows these funds to be used for services that strengthen
   parental relationships and promote healthy marriages. The legislation
   also authorizes an initial $67 million in fiscal years 2002 and 2003
   for projects that mentor children of prisoners, and authorizes an
   additional $60 million of annual funding to states, specifically for
   educational and training vouchers for youth between the ages of 16 and
   21.

   New Freedom Initiative. As part of the President's New Freedom
   Initiative, the federal government was directed to assist states and
   localities to swiftly implement the U.S. Supreme Court decision in
   Olmstead v. L.C., stating that the country is committed to
   community-based alternatives for individuals with disabilities. As part
   of this effort, Secretary Thompson is heading the Interagency Council
   on Community Living, a special task force supported by HHS, the
   departments of Education, Justice, Labor, Housing and Urban
   Development, and the Social Security Administration, charged with
   evaluating the programs, statutes and regulations of their respective
   agencies to determine whether they should be revised or modified to
   improve the availability of community-based services for qualified
   individuals with disabilities.

   HHS Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. Within the first 100 days of
   the new Bush administration, and in response to the President's
   Executive Order, Secretary Thompson created a Center for Faith and
   Community Based Initiatives at HHS. The Center was established to
   create a level playing field for all faith-based community
   organizations applying for federal grants.

   Gift of Life Donation Initiative. Recognizing the shortage of viable
   organs for donation, Secretary Thompson launched the Gift of Life
   Donation Initiative in April 2001, a nationwide campaign to encourage
   organ and tissue donation, as well as registration for marrow donation,
   and donation of blood. Initial phases of the campaign included the
   Workplace Partnership for Life, a public/private network of employers,
   unions and other employee organizations promoting the goals of the
   campaign. Additionally, Secretary Thompson released a model donor card
   for organ donation, called for a major review of existing organ donor
   registries, and offered support to create a national Gift of Life medal
   recognizing all families who consent to donation. HHS is also
   developing a model organ donation curriculum for drivers' education
   classes to be offered to state and local education systems. For more
   information, visit http://www.organdonor.gov.

                     EXPANDING ACCESS TO HEALTH SERVICES

   Comprehensive access to health care services and information is one of
   the most vital challenges of the day. Many individuals in rural areas,
   as well as persons facing social and economic disadvantages often lack
   appropriate health care. Secretary Thompson and the Bush administration
   are implementing swift changes to help all Americans achieve their full
   potential for health.

   Presidential Proposal to Expand Community Health Centers. The Health
   Resources and Services Administration funds more than 3,000 community
   and migrant health center sites across the nation, including sites in
   rural, hard-to-serve areas. The community and migrant health center
   program (CHC) was developed to provide access to family-oriented
   preventive and primary health care services for people living in
   medically underserved communities. About 60 percent of HRSA's CHC
   patients live in rural areas. President Bush's proposed fiscal year
   2002 budget calls for improving and strengthening this program with a
   $124 million increase in funding for health centers to enable them to
   serve up to 1 million more individuals through approximately 100 new
   sites and expanding service capacity at 100 existing sites. This
   request is part of the President's multi-year initiative to increase
   the number of community health center sites nationwide by 1,200 and to
   eventually double the number of people served.

   Expanded Coverage Options for the Uninsured. HHS issued guidance aimed
   at providing health coverage to more children in the U.S. The rule
   gives states increased flexibility under SCHIP to provide coverage and
   enables states to use streamlined enrollment procedures. Under this new
   model waiver process, CMS expects millions more children to gain access
   to needed health services. The SCHIP program covers more than 3 million
   children who would otherwise not have health insurance. The law pledges
   $40 billion in federal funds over 10 years to help states find, enroll
   and insure children whose families earn too much to be eligible for
   traditional Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance plans.
   The changes promote greater state flexibility in order to encourage
   states to develop approaches similar to those used by the private
   insurance industry that address the needs of children and families in
   their states.

   HHS Clears Backlog of Medicaid State Plan Amendments. By October 2001,
   HHS cleared a backlog of nearly 400 amendments to state Medicaid
   programs, many of which had been pending for several years. These
   changes, plus other approved Medicaid and State Children's Health
   Insurance Program (SCHIP) plan amendments and waivers, are estimated to
   have expanded eligibility to more than 1.8 million people and enhanced
   benefits for about 4.5 million people. The effort ultimately helps more
   people obtain health coverage by giving states the flexibility to
   strengthen their Medicaid and SCHIP programs.

   Health Facilities for American Indians and Alaska Natives. The Indian
   Health Service opened a new ambulatory primary health care addition to
   the David C. Wynecoop Memorial Clinic in Wellpinit, Wash. The new
   clinic will be the primary source of health care for members of the
   Spokane Tribe of Indians and the Kalispel Tribe of Indians, with a
   projected patient load of more than 20,000 visits per year. About 3,000
   people in this remote area of northeastern Washington will now have
   consistent access to modern health care at this new clinic. In
   addition, Navajo Nation women in the Tuba City area of the reservation
   began receiving state-of-the-art digital mammography services as a
   result of a collaboration between HHS, Department of Defense, the
   medical services industry and academia.

   A second clinic in Kamiah, Idaho, will provide ambulatory medical,
   dental, pharmaceutical, nutritional, public health nursing and
   behavioral health services to the Nez Perce tribal population in rural
   northern Idaho. Also, a new health care center for the Colorado River
   Indian Tribes in rural southwest Arizona will support a health care
   delivery program for a projected user population of more than 6,200 and
   29,700 outpatient visits annually. The new facility has 17 inpatient
   beds, a 24-hour emergency room, and space for a full range of
   ambulatory and community health services.

               ASSURING HEALTH CARE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY

   HHS has taken broad steps in 2001 to mobilize efforts to increase
   health care quality - particularly with respect to the elderly - and to
   augment support systems for patient and consumer safety. HHS agencies
   are on the forefront of new and dynamic efforts.

   Nursing Home Quality. Beginning in January 2002, the Centers for
   Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) will begin a six-state demonstration
   to identify, collect and publish nursing home quality information in
   Colorado, Maryland, Ohio, Rhode Island, Washington and Florida. CMS
   will begin publishing the information in April 2002 to help make people
   aware of how performance differs across nursing homes. The information
   will be available online at http://www.medicare.gov and will be
   promoted through local Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs),
   formerly known as Medicare's Peer Review Organizations. Following the
   pilot project, CMS will refine and expand the initiative to include
   risk-adjusted quality information from nursing homes in every state.
   The national project is scheduled to begin in October 2002. In
   addition, the QIOs will actively help people to better use the quality
   performance data by making sure that their interests and priorities are
   reflected in these new efforts to improve the quality of care.

   HHS Patient Safety Task Force. On April 23, 2001, HHS formally
   established a new Patient Safety Task Force, led by the Agency for
   Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), CDC, FDA and CMS. The purpose
   of the task force is to identify and collect data that will be useful
   for healthcare providers, states, and other health agencies to improve
   patient safety. CDC, FDA, and CMS presently operate a number of systems
   to collect information that helps to monitor health care safety;
   compliance with existing regulations on blood products, devices, drugs;
   and the safety of patients in Medicare-funded institutions. The Task
   Force will be studying ways to implement a user-friendly Internet-based
   patient safety reporting format. This will enable faster cross-matching
   and electronic analysis of data, and more rapid responses to patient
   safety problems. HHS' fiscal year 2002 budget proposal includes up to
   $72 million, an increase of $15 million over fiscal year 2001, for
   efforts to improve patient safety and reduce adverse events.

   Patient Safety Research. On October 11, 2001, HHS announced the release
   of $50 million to fund 94 new research grants, contracts and other
   projects to reduce medical errors and improve patient safety. The
   initiative, funded by HHS' AHRQ, represents the federal government's
   largest single investment to address patient deaths related to medical
   errors, which a November 1999 Institute of Medicine report estimates to
   be between 44,000 and 98,000 annually. The 94 projects now being funded
   will be carried out at state agencies, major universities, hospitals,
   outpatient clinics, nursing homes, physcians' offices, professional
   societies and other organizations across the country.

   National Family Caregiver Support Program (NFCSP). In November 2000,
   Congress created the new caregiver program as part of the Older
   Americans Act Amendments of 2000, setting the stage for HHS' National
   Family Caregiver Support Program, launched in February 2001 to help
   family members provide care for the elderly at home. As the largest new
   support program under the Older Americans Act since 1972, states
   received $113 million in grants to run programs that provide critical
   support, including home and community-based services, to help families
   maintain their caregiver roles. The NFCSP also supports grandparents
   and other relatives raising grandchildren under the age of 18 as well
   as caregivers of persons with mental retardation and developmental
   disabilities. In fiscal year 2001, approximately $6 million was awarded
   for 34 projects to develop innovative approaches to assist families and
   informal caregivers of older persons, as well as grandparents and older
   relatives who are caregivers of children. The NFCSP also provides
   support for caregivers of Native American elders. Comprehensive program
   guidance was developed by the department's Administration on Aging
   (AoA).

                REFORMING AND IMPROVING MEDICARE AND MEDICAID

   Earlier this year, Secretary Thompson and CMS Administrator Tom Scully
   announced the beginning of a series of initiatives to reform and
   strengthen the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), formerly
   the Health Care Financing Administration. One of the highest priorities
   of the administration is to create within CMS a "culture of
   responsiveness" to the needs and concerns of the nearly 70 million
   people who rely on Medicare and Medicaid, and the doctors, nurses and
   other healthcare providers who provide such valuable resources.

   Restructuring and Renaming. The CMS name change was implemented to
   clearly reflect the agency's lines of business: traditional
   fee-for-service Medicare, Medicare+Choice, and state administered
   programs, such as Medicaid and SCHIP. This resulted in the creation of
   three new operational divisions: the Center for Medicare Management,
   the Center for Beneficiary Choices, and the Center for Medicaid and
   State Operations.

   Improving Access to Information for Beneficiaries. In the fall of 2001,
   CMS launched a nationwide educational initiative, including a $30
   million advertising campaign, to highlight the health care options and
   information resources available to beneficiaries. The ad campaign,
   created in English and Spanish, includes the creation of
   http://www.medicare.gov, and 24-hour service expansion of
   1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). As a result, more than 20,000 calls
   are received into the call centers daily, with a peak of more than
   60,000 calls in one day.

   And the efforts to make the agency more responsive are working: the
   2001 American Customer Service Index found a significant increase in
   beneficiary satisfaction, making it the 3rd highest rating of federal
   agency consumer satisfaction.

   Easing Regulatory Burden. CMS created a new, streamlined enrollment
   form that will make it easier for qualified physicians and other
   health-care providers to become eligible for Medicare reimbursement for
   the care and services that they provide on behalf of Medicare
   beneficiaries. The forms reflect extensive input from physicians and
   allow doctors and other providers to fill out only the portions
   relevant to their practices.

   Increasing Medicaid Accountability. HHS will begin in 2002 to phase out
   a Medicaid loophole that costs federal taxpayers billions of dollars a
   year in excessive payments to states for matching state Medicaid costs
   that may not pay for Medicaid services. The final regulation will
   revise Medicaid's "upper payment limit" rules to prevent states from
   increasing the federal share of Medicaid costs. The new rule would
   limit state Medicaid program payments for services provided at certain
   hospitals to the estimated amount that the Medicare program would pay
   for the same services. The final rule is projected to save an estimated
   $55 billion over the next 10 years.

   Fighting Fraud and Abuse. During fiscal year 2001, the AoA worked in
   partnership with CMS, the Office of Inspector General, Department of
   Justice, and other federal, state and local partners in a coordinated
   effort to educate and inform older Americans about how they can play an
   important role in protecting the benefit integrity of the Medicare and
   Medicaid programs. AoA and its nationwide network of agencies support
   community education activities designed to assist older Americans and
   their families recognize and report potential errors or fraudulent
   situations. This year, AoA's 52 Senior Medicare Patrol projects
   recruited and trained more than 10,000 senior volunteers, who directly
   educated more then 300,000 beneficiaries.

                      ACCELERATING BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH

   The Bush administration maintained the commitment to doubling funding
   for the National Institutes of Health by 2003. The President's NIH
   Budget request for fiscal year 2002 was $23 billion, a 13.5 percent
   increase over fiscal year 2001- the largest single year dollar increase
   in the institute's history.

   NIH Launches Stem Cell Research Program. On August 9th, President Bush
   announced that federal funds may be awarded for research using human
   embryonic stem cell lines that meet certain criteria. Such research is
   now eligible for federal funding as long as the derivation process
   (which begins with the destruction of the embryo) was initiated prior
   to 9:00 p.m. EDT on August 9, 2001. These stem cells must have been
   derived from an embryo that was created for reproductive purposes and
   was in excess of clinical need. In addition, informed consent must have
   been obtained for the donation of the embryo and that donation must not
   have involved financial inducements.

   The NIH has expeditiously implemented the President's new policy by
   creating a Human Embryonic Stem Cell Registry that lists the holders of
   the 72 human embryonic stem cell lines, and provides information about
   the cells and how to contact the holders. The Registry is available at
   http://escr.nih.gov/.

   Additionally, NIH and the WiCell Research Institute, Inc., of Madison,
   Wis., announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding for
   research use of WiCell's existing five human embryonic stem cell lines
   that meet the criteria articulated by the President in his August 9
   address. This agreement allows scientists from NIH to access these cell
   lines to explore new avenues of research in this emerging field of
   technology.

   NIH Clinical Research Center. The new Mark O. Hatfield Clinical
   Research Center at NIH is well under way. When completed, it will
   include 250 beds for inpatient care and 100 day-hospital stations for
   outpatient care, and research laboratories, expanding opportunities for
   physicians and patients to participate in cutting-edge research and
   scientific advances. The new center will connect to the current
   facility, which opened its doors to patients in 1953. The new facility
   will provide a crucial link in rapidly moving biomedical findings in
   the laboratory into the mainstream of medical practice.

   CDC Approved Facility. CDC is engaged in an ongoing effort to improve
   aging offices and laboratories. In 2001, CDC received $175 million as
   part of its 10-year Master Plan for constructing and renovating
   buildings and facilities located in Atlanta. Construction of Phase I
   and II of the Roybal Infectious Disease Laboratories is completed and
   is fully operational. The Emerging Infectious Disease Lab and West
   Campus Central Utility Plant are currently under design/construction.
   Located at the CDC's Chamblee Campus, a three-story Environmental
   Health Lab has been completed and is scheduled to be occupied in early
   2002. This new Environmental Health Lab will be the new work site for
   approximately 100 environmental health laboratorians. Construction of
   these new laboratories are critical to support CDC's mission and
   worldwide efforts to help control disease outbreaks and prevent
   illness.

                    HHS MOBILIZES FORCES FOR FOOD SAFETY

   In 2001, cases of BSE (bovine spongioform encephalopathy) or "mad cow
   disease" continued to occur in a number of Western European countries,
   and in September 2001, Japan announced its first confirmed case of BSE.
   First identified in the U.K. in 1986, the brain-wasting disease is
   fatal and is believed to be transmissible to people who consume
   infected beef products. HHS, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and
   other partners are heading comprehensive efforts to safeguard the
   nation's food supply and strengthen protections already in place.

   HHS Action Plan to Combat Mad Cow Disease. Mad Cow Disease belongs to a
   family of diseases called TSEs, or transmissible spongioform
   encephalopathies, named for the sponge-like gaps that develop in the
   brain tissue of diseased animals or people. One TSE disease that
   affects humans is called Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), and a form of
   this disease, variant CJD (vCJD). To date, there are no reported cases
   of BSE or vCJD in the U.S. To further strengthen the nation's food
   supply, Secretary Thompson released a four-point action plan in August
   2001 to increase protections for Americans against BSE. The effort
   allows coordination with other government agencies, the private sector,
   and the international community to contain the epidemic and assist
   those affected by it.

   U.S./Mexico Cooperative Agreement. The FDA, U.S. Department of
   Agriculture and Mexico's Secretara de Agricultura, Ganadera, Desarrollo
   Rural, Pesca y Alimentacin (SAGARPA) and Secretara de Salud signed a
   cooperative agreement in September to enhance existing food safety
   measures through expanding programs, sharing information and
   coordinating specific activities. The agreement will operate to share
   information on the sources of fresh produce and to investigate the
   causes of any contamination of these products. The USDA's Food Safety
   and Inspection Service and Foreign Agriculture Service and SAGARPA will
   take steps to ensure the safety of meat, poultry and egg products in
   both countries. These efforts are expected to ensure that borders
   remain open and that safe products continue to flow freely between the
   countries. The agencies will also collaborate on other specific
   projects to achieve common understanding on issues of mutual concern.

              ADVANCING HEALTH PROMOTION AND DISEASE PREVENTION

   During the past year, HHS has continued to make strides in the areas of
   disease prevention, promotion, delivery and research. Many programs and
   studies resonate within communities nationwide.

   Women's Health

   Women and Smoking: A Report of the Surgeon General. On March 27, 2001,
   U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher released a new report which provided
   a composite overview of smoking and health issues among women and girls
   in the United States. The report, Women and Smoking: A Report of the
   Surgeon General, summarized patterns of tobacco use among women,
   factors associated with starting and continuing to smoke, the health
   consequences of smoking, tobacco marketing targeted at women, and
   cessation and prevention interventions. The report was prepared by the
   CDC, and is an update of the original 1980 Surgeon General's report on
   women and smoking. The report calls for stronger national and local
   efforts, particularly from women's groups, to implement proven
   solutions to reduce and prevent tobacco use among women and girls. To
   view the report, go to http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/sgr_forwomen.htm.

   Women's HIV Clinical Guide. In May 2001, HHS' Health Resources and
   Services Administration released The Clinical Guide for the Care of
   Women with HIV, believed to be the first manual specifically written
   for the medical treatment of women with HIV. The manual provides
   practical, experience-based advice and authoritative treatment
   guidelines for clinicians treating women with HIV. For ordering
   information, visit http://hab.hrsa.gov/.

   Children and Youth

   Child Immunization Rates. CDC data showed that because of high levels
   of childhood vaccinations diseases and deaths associated with
   varicella, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, measles, mumps, rubella and
   Hib are at, or near, all time lows in the United States. Significant
   increases in the varicella (chickenpox) vaccine has resulted in the
   reduction of disease transmission among children. During the late
   1990s, varicella and cases of varicella requiring hospitalization
   declined by approximately 80 percent in a number of U.S. communities.
   The greatest decline in cases occurred among preschool age children.

   Youth Drug Use. Secretary Thompson released findings of the Substance
   Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration's 2000 National
   Household Survey on Drug Abuse, showing that overall rates of current
   use of illicit drugs were relatively unchanged, although drug use did
   decline among early teenagers. Leading indicators for drug use --
   including rates of use among the youngest age group and the number of
   new users -- suggest possible future declines. Among youths aged 12 and
   13, a key target audience of the National Youth Anti-Drug Media
   Campaign, the rate of past month illicit drug use declined from 3.9
   percent in 1999 to 3.0 percent in 2000. The estimated number of new
   marijuana users has declined from a recent peak of 2.6 million in 1996
   to 2 million in 1999. Illicit drug use includes marijuana, cocaine,
   heroin, hallucinogens and inhalants.

   Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities

   REACH 2010. In 2001, Congress appropriated $35 million to help
   community coalitions address racial and ethnic health disparities in
   the United States. CDC's Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community
   Health (Reach 2010) is a demonstration project that targets six health
   priority areas: infant mortality, breast and cervical cancer screening
   and management, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, child and/or adult
   immunization levels, and HIV/AIDS. REACH 2010 community coalitions
   mobilize and organize their resources in support of effective and
   sustainable community-driven strategies. These new strategies will
   serve as models which will be disseminated widely to eliminate the
   health disparities of racial and ethnic minorities throughout the U.S.
   Funding is provided to support the implementation and evaluation of 31
   demonstration projects. NIH contributed $5 million to support five of
   the 31 demonstration projects. Two additional projects are funded by
   the California Endowment through the CDC Foundation. Four projects
   serving the elderly are managed through an interagency agreement with
   the Administration on Aging. Finally, also under REACH 2010, CDC has
   launched a new program for capacity building of American Indian/Alaska
   Native tribes and tribal organizations. Five such organizations
   received funding under this program in fiscal year 2001.

   Combating HIV/AIDS in America. The department's HIV/AIDS Initiative
   provides special focus on communities of color. Since 1998, HHS, the
   Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus have
   collaborated on a special package of programs to reduce the
   disproportionate HIV/AIDS impact in these communities. Congress
   increased appropriated funds by more than $100 million in fiscal year
   2001, to reach $358 million. Specifically funds are divided as follows:

   $109.2 million primarily for the Health Resources and Services
   Administration's Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency Act
   activities, which provide funding to states, public and private
   organizations to deliver essential HIV/AIDS health care and support
   services to medically underserved individuals and families;
   $88 million for community-based prevention activities at CDC;
   $95 million to expand mental health and substance abuse treatment
   services to persons with HIV/AIDS; and
   $65 million to enhance programs at NIH and HHS' Office of Minority
   Health, including funds for infrastructure and development, technical
   assistance, prevention, treatment and education.

   Mental Health Treatment Disparity. Striking disparities in access,
   quality and availability of mental health services exist for racial and
   ethnic minority Americans, according to a new report of the Surgeon
   General Mental Health: Culture, Race and Ethnicity. The report, a
   supplement to the 1999 first-ever Surgeon General's report on mental
   health, highlights the role culture and society play in mental health,
   mental illness, and the types of mental health services people seek. It
   finds that, although effective, well-documented treatments for mental
   illnesses are available, racial and ethnic minorities are less likely
   to receive quality care than the general population. Overall, one in
   three Americans who needs mental health services currently receives
   care. A critical consequence of this disparity is that racial and
   ethnic minority communities bear a disproportionately high burden of
   disability from untreated or inadequately treated mental health
   problems and mental illnesses. To view the report, visit
   http://www.surgeongeneral.gov/library/mentalhealth/.

   Medical Research for American Indians and Alaska Natives. Recognizing
   the need for American Indian and Alaska Native perspective and
   participation in medical research, Secretary Thompson supported the
   collaboration between NIH's National Institute of General Medical
   Sciences and the Indian Health Service (IHS) to establish the Native
   American Research Centers for Health. In September 2001, $3 million was
   awarded to establish eight centers. This program brings positive
   attention and solutions to improve the health status of Indian people.

   Diabetes

   Landmark Diabetes Study Concluded in 2001. On August 8, 2001, Secretary
   Thompson and NIH's National Institute of Diabetes & Digestive & Kidney
   Diseases announced results of the Diabetes Prevention Program, a major
   clinical trial comparing diet and exercise to treatment with diabetes
   drug metformin in more than 3,200 people with impaired glucose
   tolerance, a condition that often precedes diabetes. The study showed
   that people at high risk for type 2 diabetes can sharply lower their
   chances of getting the disease with diet and exercise - more than
   individuals treated with metformin, the oral diabetes drug. The $174
   million study proves that diet and exercise - as little as 30 minutes a
   day - can surpass the effectiveness of drug treatment efforts.

   Indian Health Service Model Diabetes Program. The IHS Model Diabetes
   Programs, consisting of 19 comprehensive projects located around the
   country, continue to develop expertise in the prevention and treatment
   of diabetes for sharing with other tribes and communities. The "Special
   Diabetes Program for Indians," a congressionally established network of
   333 grants for multi-faceted diabetes treatment and prevention
   projects, rely heavily on community-based efforts. The Special Diabetes
   Program for Indians grant programs and the Model Diabetes Programs, in
   cooperation with local community leadership, encourage physical
   activities and healthy lifestyles, especially among Indian youth, to
   reduce the devastating effects of diabetes in Indian communities.

   Cancer

   Gleevec Approval. On May 10, 2001 the FDA announced its approval of the
   drug Gleevec as an oral treatment for chronic myelogenous leukemia
   (CML), a cancer characterized by too many white blood cells in the bone
   marrow. Bone marrow transplantation in the initial chronic phase of the
   disease is the only known cure for CML. Gleevec represents a new class
   of cancer drugs designed to zero in on specific cancer-causing
   molecules, eliminating cancer cells while avoiding serious damage to
   other, noncancerous cells. The FDA's rapid approval of Gleevec was
   based on three short-term clinical trials indicating higher cancer
   remission rates for patients.

   Innovative Health Resources

   Healthfinder Espa±ol. This year, HHS launched healthfinder« espa±ol, a
   Spanish-language Web site that helps consumers track down reliable
   health information quickly and easily on the Internet. Available at
   http://www.healthfinder.gov/espanol, the new site creates an
   easy-to-use Spanish-language consumer resource modeled after the
   award-winning healthfinder« site. The new Spanish version Web-site
   offers health information on over 300 topics from 70 government
   agencies and nonprofit organizations, including those health issues of
   greatest concern to those of Hispanic heritage. The site offers both a
   Spanish text search and a list of topics in Spanish that can be
   browsed.

   Guide for Clinicians. On December 13, 2001, the Agency for Healthcare
   Research and Quality (AHRQ) released A Step-by-Step Guide to Delivering
   Clinical Preventive Services: A Systems Approach. This new publication,
   the newest from AHRQ's Put Prevention Into Practice Program, will help
   guide clinicians in the development of a system for delivering clinical
   preventive services in the primary care setting. The guide breaks the
   process of delivering clinical preventive services into small,
   manageable tasks and provides practical tools such as worksheets,
   health risk profiles, and preventive care flow sheets that can be
   customized for use in various clinical settings.

              IMPROVING THE WELL-BEING OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES

   HHS continues to take a lead role in advancing the overall health of
   the nation's children and families, supporting specific programs and
   initiatives.

   Continued Welfare Caseload Decline. In September 2001, HHS announced
   that the number of families nationally receiving assistance under
   Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program declined 3
   percent, from about 2.2 million to 2.1 million. The number of
   individual TANF recipients declined 4.4 percent, from more than 5.7
   million to fewer than 5.4 million. Overall, there has been a 57 percent
   decline in the number of people enrolled in TANF since Congress enacted
   welfare reform in August 1996. Congress will consider reauthorization
   of the TANF program in 2002. TANF is administered by HHS'
   Administration for Children and Families.

   Child Poverty, Teen Birth Rates Decline. Every year, the government's
   Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics, presents a
   comprehensive look at critical areas of child well-being, including
   economic security, health status, behavior, social environment, and
   education. In their fifth annual report, America's Children: Key
   National Indicators of Well-Being, 2001, the Forum report showed that
   the state of the nation's children had improved on several fronts.
   Among highlights -- the percentage of children living in households
   with at least one parent employed full-time increased from 1998 to
   1999, adolescent birth rates declined for a second year in a row, and
   more children had health insurance in 1999 than in 1998. Members of the
   public may access the report at http://childstats.gov

   Toolkit to End Violence Against Women. In October 2001, HHS and the
   Department of Justice announced the creation of the Toolkit to End
   Violence Against Women, a Web-based program offering recommendations
   for strengthening prevention efforts and improving services for female
   victims of violence. The Toolkit, develop by the National Advisory
   Council on Violence Against Women, combines input from leaders and
   practitioners around the country with expertise in domestic violence,
   sexual assault and stalking. To learn more about the Toolkit, view
   http://toolkit.ncjrs.org/.

   Youth Violence. In November and December 2001, the Surgeon General
   traveled to Chicago, Atlanta, Los Angeles and Philadelphia to engage in
   community discussions on youth violence. The forums served as a
   follow-up to the January report, Youth Violence: A Report of the
   Surgeon General. It is the first Surgeon General report dedicated
   exclusively to the topic.

            COMMITTED TO GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE HIV/AIDS EPIDEMIC

   The movement of millions of people each day across national borders
   increases health risks for the spread of infectious disease. HHS
   expanded several health programs in 2001 to keep pace with the rapid
   globalization movement.

   Global AIDS Fund. This year, The Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
   Tuberculosis and Malaria was created to attract, manage and disburse
   financial resources to reduce infections, illness and death caused by
   HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB) and malaria. According to the Fund, AIDS,
   TB and malaria claim nearly 6 million deaths per year. The Bush
   administration played a key role in supporting contributions to the
   Fund, making an initial U.S. contribution of $100 million. The first
   board meeting of the Fund will be in January 2002. Visit the Global
   Fund Web site at http://www.globalfundatm.org/news.html.

   Global HIV/AIDS Care and Treatment Activities. With additional funds,
   HRSA will develop training programs and materials for health care
   professionals and other caregivers, and provide technical assistance
   and consultation in palliative care, home and community-based care,
   clinical care to countries that have been affected by HIV/AIDS.

   CDC Expands Global AIDS Program. In June 2001, CDC announced that the
   agency was expanding its Global AIDS Program to address the HIV/AIDS
   epidemic in the Caribbean and Latin America. CDC will work in
   partnership with the Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC), assisting
   them with their HIV prevention efforts throughout the Caribbean. CAREC
   is one of eight scientific centers within the Pan American Health
   Organization and is a leading public health institution in the region.

   HIV/AIDS Services Along the U.S.-Mexico Border. HRSA is working through
   the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Initiative on the cross-border problems
   of HIV/AIDS and is targeting $13 million over five years in grant funds
   for people with HIV disease and AIDS who live in the U.S. along the
   2,000 mile area of the U.S.-Mexico border. The agency also provided
   support for the translation and Web casting of the Fourth Annual
   Brazil-Johns Hopkins Conference on HIV/AIDS, the largest HIV/AIDS
   conference in Latin America.

   HIV/AIDS Web Portal at NIH. In recognition of World AIDS Day - December
   1, 2001 - NIH launched a new Web resource that provides comprehensive
   information about the diverse array of NIH-supported HIV/AIDS research
   at its Maryland campus, across the U.S., and around the world. The site
   features information for researchers, health care workers and the
   general public. Included are links to the NIH fiscal year 2003 Plan for
   HIV-Related Research, information on clinical trials, scientific and
   medical literature, on-line order forms for publications, counseling
   resources, plus seminar information for the general community. Support
   for HIV/AIDS-related programs at NIH totaled approximately $2.2 billion
   in fiscal year 2001. Visit the Web site at
   http://worldaidsday.nih.gov/worldaidsday/december1.htm.

   International Tobacco Control. HHS continues its collaboration with the
   World Health Organization (WHO) on international tobacco control
   efforts, and in May 2001, announced the expansion of tobacco programs
   into Southeast Asia, particularly Vietnam, Laos and Malaysia. The
   CDC/WHO Collaborating Center for Smoking and Health will help to
   implement studies, conduct epidemiologic research and monitoring,
   provide training and technical assistance for country-level
   surveillance of tobacco use, and support the development of national
   plans of action for tobacco control. In November 2001, HHS Assistant
   Surgeon General Dr. Kenneth Bernard led the U.S. Delegation at the
   Negotiating Session for the International Framework Convention on
   Tobacco Control. The issues in the framework include preventing smoking
   initiation, promoting cessation, protecting non-smokers from exposure
   to passive smoke, and educating the public about the health
   consequences of tobacco use.

   HHS Launches Web Site Dedicated to Global Health Issues. Secretary
   Thompson announced the launch of globalhealth.gov, a new, departmental
   Web portal providing information on the HHS' work on global health
   issues, as well as worldwide health statistics, reports and
   publications, and links to the department's global health partners. The
   site was developed to be a portal of global health information for
   policymakers, researchers, doctors and the general public, and
   highlights vital information on HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and
   tobacco use. The site is administered by the department's Office of
   International and Refugee Health. Visit the Web site at
   http://www.globalhealth.gov.

   World Assembly on Aging. The Administration on Aging has been
   designated to lead HHS efforts related to the World Assembly on Aging,
   scheduled to take place in Madrid, Spain, in 2002. AoA will coordinate
   the international plan of action, which includes issues related to
   global health.

             HHS ENHANCES PARTNERSHIPS, PERFORMANCE AND PROCESS

   Secretary Thompson and the cross-section of departmental leadership
   continue to use the President's Management Agenda as a strategic basis
   for creating an efficient and effective health and human services
   agency. To that end, several enhancements have been implemented to
   improve HHS performance along all organizational lines.

   HHS Management Reorganization. Effective October 7, 2001, HHS realigned
   several key administrative functions to establish a more effective
   focal point for leadership and management. The long-standing Office of
   the Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget was redesigned into
   two strategic divisions - the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
   Administration and Management (ASAM) and the Office of the Assistant
   Secretary for Budget, Technology and Finance (ASBTF). The ASAM office
   spearheads human resource policy, grants management, acquisitions and
   department operations, while ASBTF provides leadership on the financial
   and budgetary concerns of HHS, as well departmental investments in
   e-government and technology.

   Federal Grant Streamlining Program. HHS serves as the lead agency for
   the Federal Grant Streamlining Program, which makes it easier for
   states, universities, nonprofit organizations and other businesses to
   apply for and take advantage of federal programs involving grants and
   cooperative agreements. HHS awards roughly half of the $325 billion in
   grants issued each year. Secretary Thompson launched the
   government-wide plan in May 2001.

   Tribal Consultations Reach All-Time High. During 2001, HHS increased
   consultations with the tribal governments and tribal organizations. In
   April, Secretary Thompson invited all national tribal organization
   leadership to HHS to discuss tribal priorities and needs. This year,
   HHS held national and regional consultations with tribal, state, local
   government and nongovernmental organizations to solicit views on an HHS
   Tribal Self-Governance Determination Project Feasibility Study. In
   June, HHS held the Third Annual Tribal Budget Consultation Session to
   hear the views of tribal governments and national tribal organizations
   regarding the budget needs of local tribal communities. In August, HHS
   leadership traveled to meet with American Indian and Alaska Native
   Tribal Leaders in their home state and tribal reservations in Alaska,
   Michigan, Montana, Wisconsin and South Dakota. HHS also held a national
   tribal reauthorization listening session on Temporary Assistance to
   Needy Families (TANF), and a workshop to solicit the views of tribes
   and tribal organizations regarding the upcoming reauthorization of the
   TANF program.

   Note: All HHS press releases, fact sheets and and other press materials
   are available at http://www.hhs.gov/news.
   _____________________________________________________________________

   [bluedot.gif] Go to Top of Page            [bluedot.gif] Go to What's New
   [bluedot.gif] Go to AoA Press Release Menu [bluedot.gif] Go to AoA
                                              Press Room
   [bluedot.gif] Go to AoA Home Page          [bluedot.gif] Go to Quick Index
   [bluedot.gif] Go to Site Index
   _____________________________________________________________________

     * Requests for information about aging issues and programs should be
       directed to aoainfo@aoa.gov.
     * Comments about the AoA Web Site may directed to webmanager@aoa.gov.
     * Access:  Assistance for Persons with Disabilities in Accessing this
       web site
