http://www.src.wa.gov/news/pr/2002/rossicol011002.htm

                                  [2h_media.jpg]

                  Fresh ideas could help solve the budget crisis
                          Special to the Eastside Journal
                                by Sen. Dino Rossi


   January 10, 2001

   Tough times call for some tough choices.  One of those tough choices
   that’s staring us in the face as we return to Olympia for the 2002
   legislative session is the budget.

   Let’s be clear, though.  While the current $1.2 billion shortfall
   presents a considerable challenge, it’s not one without a solution.  We
   just need to examine some fresh ways to solve the problem while making
   our state’s budget a more sustainable one for the future.  The majority
   party hasn’t offered up any ways to address this so far, and not
   addressing the problem will only create more headaches in the next
   budget cycle.

   We need to start by revising the way state government operates.
   Preserving essential services while eliminating unnecessary expenses
   should be the goal.  Utilizing some of the following ideas could save
   millions of dollars and I think you’ll see these are the types of
   changes in government the voters are demanding.

   1   1.  Limit employment expenses

   The governor should immediately mandate a hiring freeze for
   nonessential services.  When a business is struggling does it hire more
   employees?  No.  A hiring freeze could save $153 million over the next
   18 months.  And don’t let erroneous statements fool you; our most
   vulnerable citizens would not suffer.  Essential agencies and programs
   would be exempt from the hiring freeze, including everything from
   Children and Family Services, to schools for the deaf and blind, to
   mental health institutions.  If a corrections officer leaves, that
   position would still be filled.  DSHS social work positions would be
   protected.  K-12 teachers and Higher Ed. professors wouldn’t be
   touched.  We can save money while avoiding layoffs at the same time.

   This concept has already worked in other states.  Gov. George Pataki of
   New York put similar freezes into effect after the events of September
   11 and will save his state almost $3 billion.  Those are real savings
   we could be realizing right now.

   There are also other ways to better utilize your taxes.  Many people
   don’t realize the government hires people from state agencies to lobby
   the Legislature.  Simply put, they use your tax dollars to hire
   lobbyists to get more of your tax dollars!  There’s $7 million to be
   saved by limiting these pointless efforts.

   2.  2. Examine where costs in state government have risen

   If your family or business is struggling, one of the first things you
   do is look at your costs, to see which ones are rising the quickest.
   Often that might be a place you can save money and government should do
   the same.

   A close examination shows several areas where costs must be brought
   down.  For example, over the last five years, out-of-state travel has
   grown at nearly nine times the rate of inflation.  In-state travel and
   consulting contracts have also seen similar rates of increase.

   It doesn’t stop there though.  Miscellaneous goods and services costs
   have risen nearly six times the rate of inflation over the same five
   years, while training retreats and conferences have risen four times
   the rate and furnishings and equipment purchases over three times the
   rate.  Let’s bring these skyrocketing costs back down to a reasonable
   level.  We’ll save the state nearly $300 million.

   3.  3. Help identify where services could be provided more
   cost-effectively and efficiently

   Washington needs to remove the handcuffs on our state agencies when it
   comes to bidding for services.  At home if you need a plumber, you open
   up the phone book and find one with the cheapest rate.  In Olympia that
   phone book has only one page - state employees.  By opening up the
   bidding process to the private sector, the state could save hundreds of
   millions of dollars while still providing the same services.

   Here’s another way to save.  The state currently pays employees twice a
   month.  By switching to one payday a month, we could save nearly $10
   million in paper and administrative costs.

   My reasons for presenting these options are two-fold.  First, the
   voters in this state have made their voices clear through the
   initiative process.  They want us to be more responsible with the tax
   dollars we already have.  These are clearly some ways to do this.
   Second, we do have areas of government where we can make cuts without
   throwing widows and orphans into the streets.

   I hope the majority party will start to introduce some ideas of its
   own, something it hasn’t done yet.  But implementing these changes
   would eliminate at least half of the problem.  Let’s work together to
   solve the other half, while providing voters with what they want, a
   more efficient government.

                                  -- End --

         For interviews contact Sen. Dino Rossi at (360) 786-7608 or
                             rossi_di@leg.wa.gov
      For more information contact: Scott Armstrong at 360-796-7395 or
                           armstron_sc@leg.wa.gov






   [leg._building.jpg] About Your Senator [bd12538_.jpg] Issues In Focus
   [microphone2.jpg] Media Center/Breaking News

                           Return to SRC Home Page
   Thank you for your interest in the Washington State Senate Republican
   Caucus.
   If you have questions, you may contact the caucus office at:
    PO Box 40462, Olympia, WA 98504-0462, (360) 786-7517
   or e-mail: Republican Caucus for further assistance.
   10/08/01
