http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/researcharea/biomaterials/index.html

   Polymer division banner


Biomaterials Group

   The Biomaterials Group provides basic materials science, engineering,
   test methods, and standards to sectors of the health care industry for
   the development of new or improved materials and delivery systems. The
   work of the group focuses on (1) evaluation of synthetic materials
   (biomaterials) used to replace or restore function to a body tissue and
   (2) development of improved dental restorative materials with greater
   durability, wear resistance and clinical acceptability.
   clinic picture

   There is an overall risk of fractures of the hip, spine, and distal
   forearm that will afflict 40% of women and 13% of men 50 years of age
   and older. Regenerating form and function to bone defects in an
   elderly, osteoporotic population of Americans will be a daunting
   challenge. To meet this challenge, scientists from the Polymers
   Division are developing metrology methods to characterize the
   biocompatibility of bone grafts for bone regeneration. Quantitative
   methods being developed include bioassays for the adhesion, viability,
   proliferation, and alkaline phosphatase activity of bone cells, as well
   as confocal microscopy and optical coherence tomography for measuring
   the growth of bone cells into bone grafts. A combinatorial approach is
   being used to rapidly identify compositions and surface features of
   bone grafts that provide desirable properties such as biocompatibility
   and mechanical durability. In addition, members of the group work with
   other scientists from the Polymers Division to develop reference
   biomaterials and ancillary reference data that will be used by
   researchers and manufacturers to improve performance of human
   implantable devices, such as hip and knee prostheses.
   Polymer based dental composites are fast becoming the primary
   restorative material for the replacement of tooth structure that is
   lost through caries or trauma. Although significant strides have been
   made in improving many of the properties of these multi-phase
   materials, they are still considered deficient with regard to their
   durability, toughness and adhesion to contiguous tooth structure.
   Because of the multi-phase nature of composites (polymer matrix plus
   filler plus interface) problems also exist with regard to internal
   adhesion of these three phases. Research efforts focus on improving our
   understanding of the synergistic interaction of these phases of the
   composite as well as elucidating the mechanisms of adhesion to dentin
   and enamel. It is expected that these studies will provide a valuable
   knowledge base for the development of dramatically improved composites
   and adhesives. A complimentary study is in progress to develop and
   understand the bioactivity of various types of calcium phosphate-filled
   composites that exhibit remineralization potential. graphic







   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division

   Research Area
   bullet Characterization & Measurement

   bullet Electronic Materials
   bullet Biomaterials
          bullet  Projects
          bullet  Staff
          bullet  Highlights
   bullet Multiphase Materials
   bullet Processing Characterization
   bullet Multivariant Meaurement Methods
