http://astrophysics.jpl.nasa.gov/description.html

                            Astrophysics Element

   The science element is involved in a wide range of research under the
   general heading of Astrophysics, as summarized in the descriptions
   below of the several specialized teams of which it is comprised. The
   foundation of our work is scientific research, and the element's record
   of publication in major scientific journals is arguably one of the best
   at the Laboratory. This capability provides JPL with a scientific
   backbone for many of its space missions, both in planetary exploration
   and in pioneering astrophysical missions currently in flight or in the
   planning stage.

                                back to home

                               Research Areas

     * High Energy Astrophysics Team - High-resolution cosmis gamma-ray
       observations from balloons and satellites. The team is also
       involved in the development of advanced sensors to be used on
       future space mission to obtain high-resolution gamma-ray images.
     * Infrared Astrophysics - Observationsal research in infrared
       astrophysics using state-of-the-art instruments and ground based,
       airborne, and space telescopes. Development of array-based infrared
       instrumentatiion for use on the 5-m Hale telescope Mt. Palomar.
       Research home of the Space Infrared Telescope Facility (SIRTF0 and
       the Wide Field Infrared Explorer (WIRE) science offices.
     * Radio/Submillimeter Astronomy - Observationsl research in
       submillimeter and radio astronomy. Both planetary and astrophysics
       research are performed using ground-based, balloon, aircraft and
       spacecraft data.
     * Relativity and Gravitation - Feasibility and data analysis studies
       leading to proposals to search for long period gravitational waves.
       The technique uses high precision Doppler shift measurements of
       microwaves transponded by interplanetary spacecraft. If found,
       these gravitational waves of millihertz frequency would come from
       supermassive cosmic sources such as binary black holes in active
       galactic nuclei, or from the big bang. Team members are presently
       selected for Galileo, Ulysses and Cassini. The group also does
       supporting research in basic mathematical general reltivity and the
       theory of sources.
     * WF/PC 2 Science - Research in optical astronomy using JPL's Wide
       Field and Planetary Camera 2 aboard the Hubble Space Telescope.
       Calibration and Status monitoring for the WFPC2 instrument.
       Development and testing of new CCD's and Woods filters for an HST
       advanced camera. Ground based observing programs in planetary
       astronomy and young stellar objects. Home base for the WFPC2
       Science Team.

                                back to home
