http://www.wv.doe.gov

   Warning: Privacy and Security Policy
   DOE Image of U.S. Dept. of Energy Ohio Field Office West Valley
   Demonstration Project

   Button link to Home Page

   Button link to Welcome page

   Button link to Inside West Valley page

   Button Link to DOE Headquarters' Directory

   Button link to Ohio Field Office web site

   Button link to New York State Energy Research and Development Authority
   (NYSERDA) web site

   Button link to M&O Contractor's web site - West Valley Nuclear Services
   Company

                          U.S. Department of Energy
                      West Valley Demonstration Project
                           10282 Rock Springs Road
                      West Valley, New York 14171-9799
                     General Site Number:  716-942-3235

                 Map and Directions to Site and Hotels in Area

   The West Valley Demonstration Project is a unique operation within the
   Department of Energy. It came into being through the West Valley
   Demonstration Project Act of 1980.  The Act requires that the
   Department is responsible for solidifying the high-level waste,
   disposing of waste created by the solidification, and decommissioning
   the facilities used in the process. The land and facilities are not
   owned by the Department. Rather, the project premises are the property
   of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority
   (NYSERDA) and represents only 200 acres of the larger Western New York
   Service Center, which is approximately 3,300 acres, also owned by
   NYSERDA. After decommissioning is complete, the West Valley
   Demonstration Project Act requires that the premises be returned to New
   York State. Until that time, the Act requires New York State to pay 10
   percent of the Project costs, and the Department pays the remaining 90
   percent.

   Although great progress has been made in solidifying the high-level
   waste, much remains to be done before the Project can meet all the
   conditions of the West Valley Demonstration Project Act. Current
   estimates show Project completion in 2023.

   At this time, the West Valley Demonstration Project is one of five
   sites that reports to the Department of Energy Ohio Field Office. The
   work is performed for the Department by West Valley Nuclear Services,
   under a Management and Operating (M&O) contracting arrangement.

   It is our hope that the Department of Energy’s West Valley web site
   will allow members of the public to better understand the
   accomplishments to date, the challenges that lie ahead, and the
   Department’s commitment to safe, cost-effective operation of this
   unique project.
   Blue separator line

                    [Home] [Welcome] [Inside West Valley]

                                 [Directory]

               [Ohio Field Office] [NYSERDA] [M&O Contractor]
   Blue separator line

         Please address questions or comments to WVDPDIR@WV.DOE.GOV

                    Graphic - Bobby Approved version 3.2

               This page was last modified on January 22, 2002
