http://www.property.hq.nasa.gov

   [NASA Logo Image]

   NASA Property Contents

   NASA Property



   Disposal Officers
   Transfer Federal
   Stevenson-Wydler Act
   NASA surplus
   NASA sales link

   National Aeronautics and Space Administration personal property
   available for transfer, donation or purchase

Our Mission -

Overview of United States Federal Government Personal Property Disposal
Programs

   Each year the Federal agencies of the United States generate BILLIONS
   of dollars worth of excess, surplus and\or exchange/sale personal
   property no longer needed by the original acquiring activity. The
   Federal Government owned property generally goes through three major
   stages of disposal. You can find out more about how you, your business,
   school, etc. can obtain this property by following the links below
   which describe the various disposal programs.
    1. To learn how NASA organizations and other Federal Agencies can
       acquire NASA excess personal property.
       NASA personal property that is not needed by the original
       purchasing organization is made available for potential transfer to
       other NASA activities for further use via the NASA Property
       Disposal Officers. During Fiscal Year 2000 over $517 million of
       NASA idle property was made available for other NASA activities to
       use in lieu of needing to spend taxpayers monies to purchase new
       property. NASA activities acquired via free transfer over $323.1
       million of excess personal property from within NASA and other U.S.
       Federal Government agencies for continued use by NASA operations.
       NASA excess personal property was made available for potential
       transfer to all other U.S. Federal Government agencies via the
       GSA's Personal Property system called FEDS, the Federal Disposal
       System, Search by Computer and Request Excess by Electronic
       Notification (SCREEN).
       .
    2. .To learn how NASA surplus personal property is transferred
       (donation) to eligible donees.
       During Fiscal Year 2000 over $30 million of NASA surplus personal
       property was transferred (donation) to eligible donees, including
       Public agencies involved in conservation, economic development,
       Nonprofit educational activities (public or private schools),
       Nonprofit public health activities including programs for the
       homeless, Nonprofit and Public Programs for the Elderly,
       Educational Activities of Special Interest to the Armed Services,
       Public Airports, Forfeited distilled spirits to Eleemosynary
       institutions, Blood plasma to the American Red Cross, Surplus
       equipment and supplies to State and local government in
       Presidential-declared emergencies or major disasters.
       .
    3. To learn how NASA excess research equipment is transferred to
       schools (K-12) and colleges.
       During Fiscal Year 2000 over $43 million of NASA excess research
       equipment consisting primarily of older 486, Pentium 1, and some
       Pentium II computers was transferred to hundreds of U.S. schools
       located in most states throughout the country.
       .
    4. To learn how and where the general public and businesses can
       purchase NASA surplus personal property.
       During Fiscal Year 2000 NASA surplus and exchange/personal property
       generated over $18.3 million in sales proceeds for the Federal
       Government.


Contact Information

   Telephone
          202-358-2302

   FAX
          202-358-2302

   Postal address
          National Aeronautics and Space Administration
          Code JG Room 6R30, 300 E Street SW, Washington DC 20546-0001

   Electronic mail
          General Information: David.Melton@hq.nasa.gov
          Webmaster: David.Melton@hq.nasa.gov




      [ Disposal Officers ] [ Transfer Federal ] [ Stevenson-Wydler Act ]
      [ NASA surplus ] [ NASA sales link ]

   Send mail to David.Melton@hq.nasa.gov with questions or comments about this
   web site.
   Last modified: December 29, 2000
