http://chemin.lanl.gov

   CHEMIN: A Miniaturized Simultaneous X-ray Diffraction/X-ray
   Fluorescence Instrument

   David L. Bish (bish@lanl.gov)

   David T. Vaniman (vaniman@lanl.gov)

   Steve J. Chipera (chipera@lanl.gov)

   Earth and Environmental Science EES-1

   MS D462, Los Alamos National Laboratory
   [CHEMINDiagram-1.JPG]
   David F. Blake (dblake@mail.arc.nasa.gov)

   NASA Ames Research Center
   Stewart A. Collins (stewart.a.collins@jpl.nasa.gov)

   Jet Propulsion Laboratory
     __________________________________________________________________

   Introduction: Demonstration of the Need for an XRD/XRF Instrument

   The difficulty of uniquely determining mineralogy from chemical data
   alone (e.g., X-ray fluorescence or XRF data) is amply illustrated by
   the problems encountered in interpreting the Viking XRF data. The
   Viking XRF data provide multiple possible mineralogic fits to the
   chemistry, even after years of inquiry seeking to constrain the
   mineralogic interpretations with thermodynamic data (e.g., Clark and
   VanHart, 1981). This uncertainty in mineral identification is
   attributable largely to the presence of water, sulfur, and chlorine on
   the martian surface. With this mix of volatile and anionic species, the
   possible mineral forms that can occur dramatically increase in number.
   A simple normative calculation of mineralogy is therefore not possible.
   Indeed, the problem of determining extraterrestrial mineralogy from
   chemistry extends beyond Mars.

   [Mars_surface-s.JPG]

   Recently, there has been wider recognition of the need for X-ray
   diffraction (XRD) mineral determinations in addition to the chemical
   data that can be obtained by XRF. For example, Fegley et al. (1992)
   cited our early CHEMIN concept as an approach to resolving mineralogic
   uncertainties for Venus. Any planetary, asteroidal, or cometary body
   with mineral constituents that contain water (including ices), sulfur,
   or halogens will require XRD in addition to chemical analysis (XRF) for
   adequate understanding of origin and evolution. The need for
   diffraction data in addition to chemistry led to the development of the
   combined XRD/XRF CHEMIN concept, in which the combined CHEmical and
   MINeralogical capability is reflected in the instrument name.

   Science Objectives

   The origins and histories of planetary, asteroidal, and cometary bodies
   are reflected in their constituent minerals. The <100 naturally
   occurring elements combine together to form >3800 known minerals. This
   tremendous variety of mineralogy carries stories of pressure,
   temperature, oxygen fugacity, and solution chemistry, all intertwined
   with histories of sedimentation, igneous activity, metamorphism,
   impacts, and surface weathering. The science objectives of determining
   simultaneous chemistry and mineralogy thus span the full history of
   planetary, asteroidal, and cometary formation and evolution. We have
   had an active interest in the possibilities of miniaturized XRD/XRF
   instrumentation since 1990. Early concepts that we have pursued
   included both isotopic and tube-source instruments, as well as a
   variety of detector systems fitted to a transmission analytical
   geometry (Vaniman et al., 1991a,b; Blake et al., 1992). We have
   discussed elsewhere the applications and instrument designs of possible
   modern XRD/XRF instrumentation for planetary exploration.

   Approach

   CHEMIN is a miniaturized, CCD-based simultaneous X-ray
   diffraction/X-ray fluorescence (XRD/XRF) instrument. The device is
   designed to characterize elemental composition and mineralogy from
   small fine-grained or powder samples. The projected flight-instrument
   weight is <1 kg, the volume is 500 cc, and power requirement is 2 W.
   Usable diffraction data have been obtained from the prototype
   instrument in a few minutes, and flight-instrument data-collection
   times of 1-2 hours are predicted. Both diffraction and fluorescence
   data are obtained simultaneously by operating the CCD in single-photon
   counting mode. X-ray fluorescence data will be obtained for elements
   with 4<Z<92. Energy discrimination is used to distinguish between
   diffracted characteristic photons and fluorescence photons. Diffraction
   data are obtained in transmission mode, and resolution is presently
   sufficient to allow application of the Rietveld refinement method to
   the diffraction data. The Rietveld method is an advanced technique that
   allows interpretations of data by fitting a diffraction pattern,
   calculated from a knowledge of the component minerals, to the observed
   diffraction data. Such analyses provide a variety of chemical and
   crystal structural (mineralogic) information from a single diffraction
   pattern. In addition, because the CHEMIN concept combines diffraction
   and fluorescence data, simultaneous linear equations can be used to
   derive the most accurate, self-consistent mineral and chemical
   composition.

   The prototype instrument currently in use at NASA Ames Laboratory is
   illustrated in Figure 1, and a schematic illustration of the CHEMIN
   flight instrument is provided in Figure 2. More detailed information is
   provided in Tables 1 and 2.

   [Ccdcam-2s.JPG] Figure 1. Prototype CHEMIN instrument, showing
   collimator and sample holder on the left and CCD on the right.


   [CHEMINDiagram-1s.JPG] Figure 2. Schematic of the flight CHEMIN
   instrument

   Figure 2 shows the spatial relationships between the three components
   that are critical to the operation of CHEMIN:

    1. an X-ray tube source
    2. a sample manipulation system
    3. a CCD detector that discriminates both energy and position of
       X-rays

   1). The X-ray source component is shown as a standard tube in Figure 2,
   reflecting one design option, but our preferred X-ray source is a
   sealed, high-vacuum envelope housing a micromachined field-emitter
   (MMFE) array, an electrostatic focusing element, and an anode, onto
   which a small focused beam of electrons is accelerated. The principle
   of micromachined field-emission sources was first described by Spindt
   (1971) and has been developed to a relatively advanced state for a
   number of uses such as flat-panel color displays (Spindt, 1992; Brodie
   and Schwoebel, 1994). In operation, a continuous electrostatic
   potential of 20 keV is applied between the anode and the MMFE array. An
   electron current is created by impressing a potential of ~50 V on the
   extraction anode of the MMFE array. The electron flow is turned on and
   off by impressing and removing this potential. The electron current
   leaving the MMFE is focused onto the anode using an electrostatic
   focusing system. The throughput of the system is limited by
   electron-beam heating of the target, which will be kept below the
   melting point of the metal. When electrons strike the target,
   characteristic and continuum X-rays are generated which propagate in
   all directions. Small fractions of these travel in the
   forward-scattered direction toward a 50-µm aperture. This aperture has
   the effect of creating a nearly parallel 50-µm beam of continuous and
   characteristic radiation from the anode.

   2). The Sample Collection Disc or Carousel. The collimated X-ray beam
   strikes a thin-film substrate held in the second component of the
   system, a multi-position sample carousel. The carousel disc is the only
   moving part in the CHEMIN instrument. The carousel can be precisely and
   continuously rotated about 360 degrees by a stepper motor. The
   substrates are X-ray thin (~2 µm) mylar films made sticky on the top
   surface with a thin film of vacuum grease or the like. A protective
   cover is removed from the coated mylar as it advances into the sample
   collection port. A sample is dumped into the sample collection port and
   powder adheres to the sticky surface of the mylar, while excess powder
   and larger grains roll off the inclined substrate. The carousel is then
   rotated into position for analysis between the X-ray source and CCD
   detector array. While in the position for analysis, 50-µm diameter
   regions are illuminated by the collimated X-ray beam. Approximately 50
   exposures are collected of each area, after which the motor steps ~100
   µm so that a new area of sample material on the same substrate is
   analyzed. An "exposure" is made by providing a pulse of 50 volts to the
   extraction anode of the X-ray tube, flooding the CCD with diffracted
   and fluoresced X-ray photons.

   3). CCD Detector Array. The third component of CHEMIN is the CCD
   detector array and detector electronics. The array consists of a matrix
   of 1024 X 1024 pixels, in a front-illuminated, thin polygate device.
   Salient characteristics of the device are listed in Table 1. In most
   applications CHEMIN can be operated in shaded or in local nighttime
   conditions, when the ambient temperature is sufficiently low to reduce
   background to an acceptable level.

   Table 1
   . Characteristics of the proposed CHEMIN CCD

Format

                                                                     1024 x 1024

Pixel size, µm

                                                                         18

Number of readout channels

                                                                          4

Readout noise, e- (rms)

                                                                         0.5

                                Energy

                                                                 Quantum Efficiency

                                                                  Energy Resolution (FWHM), eV

                                277 eV

                                                                        0.15

                                                                               38

                                1000 eV

                                                                        0.70

                                                                               60

                                5400 eV

                                                                        0.15

                                                                               115

                                8000 eV

                                                                        0.05

                                                                               130


   The CCD proposed for use in CHEMIN has already been used in X-ray
   astronomy applications (e.g., CUBIC). The principal characteristics of
   the CUBIC device are listed in Table 1. Three characteristics of this
   CCD are uniquely suited to the needs of a combined XRD/XRF instrument:

   A thin-gate design is incorporated. A CCD consists of a layer of
   single-crystal, photon-sensitive silicon that is overlain by an
   insulator and polysilicon electrodes. These overlying layers (total
   thickness ~ 500 nm) absorb a portion of the incident energy, with
   absorption being most severe at energies less than 1 keV. For some
   instruments, enhanced soft X-ray sensitivity has been achieved by
   removing the thick, insensitive silicon substrate on which the CCD is
   fabricated and illuminating the detector from the backside. Although
   thinning and backside illumination do significantly improve low-energy
   sensitivity, they also produce significant drawbacks, including
   increased charge splitting between pixels and partial charge
   collection. The CCD to be used in the CHEMIN instrument is unthinned
   and front-side illuminated. A unique pixel design is employed to
   provide enhanced low-energy X-ray response .

   Ultra-low-noise floating gate amplifiers are used. These amplifiers
   have a basic readout noise of 3-4 electrons (rms). Unlike conventional,
   floating diffusion CCD amplifiers, floating gate readout is
   nondestructive, permitting multiple readout of the charge from each
   pixel. This reduces final readout noise through averaging. Using this
   approach, a readout noise of less than one electron has been achieved,
   sufficiently low to permit shot-noise-limited measurement of the energy
   of carbon K
   a photons (277 eV), generating a signal of only 76 electrons per C Ka
   photon.

   Excellent charge transfer efficiency is maintained in the architecture.
   Individual X-ray photons generate very little charge (76 - 2050
   electrons for the range of 277 - 7500 eV). Most CCDs do not transfer
   such small quantities of charge with sufficient efficiency to permit
   measurement of photon energy. The proposed CHEMIN CCD has been
   specifically designed (and has been demonstrated) to permit such
   measurement.

   Table 2
   . Overall Instrument Parameters for CHEMIN

 Detector

                                             X-ray sensitive (thin polygate) CCD

 X-ray tube electron source

                                                 Field-effect emitter array

 Range, degrees 2
 q

                                                           5-55°

 Diffraction resolution

                                                            <0.2
                           ° 2q

 Mass, kg

                                                             0.8

 Power, W

                                                             2.0


   As described above, both diffraction and fluorescence data are obtained
   simultaneously by operating the CCD in single-photon counting mode.
   Figure 3 illustrates the flat-plate diffraction data obtained for
   Al[2]O[3] (corundum) from CHEMIN, before radial integration. Further
   data processing, which involves integrating around each entire measured
   diffraction ring, produces a diffraction pattern like that shown in
   Figure 4, which illustrates a comparison between the CHEMIN diffraction
   pattern of quartz and the pattern obtained on a conventional laboratory
   diffractometer. Radial integration allows CHEMIN to obtain high-quality
   diffraction data from relatively coarse-grained samples.

   [Al2o3ccd-1s.JPG] Figure 3. Flat-plate diffraction data for Al[2]O[3
   ]obtained using the prototype CHEMIN instrument.


   [Qtzcomparison-s.JPG] Figure 4. Diffraction pattern for quartz
   resulting from radial integration of flat-plate data, compared with
   data from a conventional laboratory diffractometer.


   XRF data as well as XRD data are collected even with the test CCD at
   NASA-Ames, although XRF data of higher quality are obtained with the
   CUBIC CCD at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. X-ray fluorescence data can
   potentially be obtained for elements with 4<Z<92. The CCD, which is the
   heart of the CHEMIN instrument, can be optimized for soft X-ray
   sensitivity by removing the thick, insensitive silicon substrate on
   which the CCD is fabricated and illuminating the detector from the
   backside. Although thinning and backside illumination significantly
   improve low-energy sensitivity, they also produce significant
   drawbacks, including increased charge splitting between pixels and
   partial charge collection. The CCD to be used in the CHEMIN instrument
   is unthinned and front-side illuminated. A unique pixel design is
   employed to provide enhanced low-energy X-ray response .
   Ultra-low-noise floating gate amplifiers are used. These amplifiers
   have a basic readout noise of 3-4 electrons (rms). Unlike conventional,
   floating diffusion CCD amplifiers, floating gate readout is
   nondestructive, permitting multiple readout of the charge from each
   pixel. This reduces final readout noise through averaging. Using this
   approach, a readout noise of less than one electron has been achieved,
   sufficiently low to permit shot-noise-limited measurement of the energy
   of carbon K
   a photons (277 eV), generating a signal of only 76 electrons per C Ka
   photon. Excellent charge transfer efficiency is maintained in this
   architecture. Individual X-ray photons generate very little charge (76
   - 2050 electrons for the range of 277 - 7500 eV). Most CCDs do not
   transfer such small quantities of charge with sufficient efficiency to
   permit measurement of photon energy. The proposed CHEMIN CCD has been
   specifically designed (and has been demonstrated) to permit such
   measurement. The type of CCD proposed for use in CHEMIN has already
   been used in X-ray astronomy applications (e.g., CUBIC). Example X-ray
   fluorescence data for the evaporite mineral löweite are shown in Figure
   5, illustrating the excellent performance for light elements. Because
   the CHEMIN concept combines diffraction and fluorescence data,
   simultaneous linear equations can be used to derive the most accurate,
   self-consistent mineral and chemical composition.

   [LoeweiteXRF-s.JPG] Figure 5. X-ray fluorescence spectrum for löweite.


   Capability Enhancements

   Several instruments are available for remote chemical analysis of
   extraterrestrial surface samples, but there are none that determine
   mineral presence and abundance. Proposals for an XRD system with such
   capabilities have been advanced in the past , and instruments for
   collecting simultaneous XRD and XRF data have been suggested , but the
   systems envisioned then had limited capabilities. Both XRD and XRF
   technologies have advanced considerably in the past 30 years, allowing
   the possibility of a practical and effective combined and simultaneous
   XRD/XRF system for planetary exploration. Recent progress in X-ray
   detector technology allows the development of simultaneous XRD and XRF
   analysis in a system such as CHEMIN that is scaled down in size and
   power to the point where it can be mounted on fixed landers, soft
   penetrators, or small robotic rovers.

   The quality of CHEMIN XRD data has now progressed to a point where
   trace mineral occurrences (<1%) can be identified and quantified. Such
   applications illustrate the high sensitivity of the prototype CHEMIN
   instrument in detecting very small quantities of diagnostic minerals.
   Contaminant detection that can distinguish between clastic, cemented
   clastic, and chemical sediments will be an important tool in remote
   petrologic and exobiologic studies. The ability to recognize and
   quantify minor minerals (present in only a few percent) will be
   important in these studies.

   Table 3 compares two XRD analyses and a normative calculation for a
   terrestrial basalt sample. One of the XRD analyses was obtained with
   the NASA-Ames CHEMIN prototype instrument (Fig. 6); the other with a
   Siemens laboratory diffractometer. The basalt sample is a high-alumina
   basalt from the Southwest Nevada Volcanic Field. Although the CHEMIN
   instrument has poorer peak resolution, the data obtained with the
   CCD-based instrument are sufficient not only to determine the mineral
   phases present, but also to apply Rietveld analysis in estimating the
   relative proportions of mineral phases in the sample. Rietveld analysis
   involves calculating a model diffraction pattern based on the crystal
   structures of the known phases in a mixture. The quality of fit between
   the observed and calculated diffraction patterns is then improved via a
   least-squares process in which relative amounts of each phase and
   crystal structural parameters are varied. For minerals in which solid
   solution is possible, the atoms used to populate the cation sites can
   be varied to refine the fit, and unit-cell parameters determined by the
   analysis provide yet another key to solid solution variations. In
   addition, software is being developed to combine both the chemical XRF
   data and the XRD result to perform this operation more rigorously (Bish
   and Howard, 1988). The analysis represented in Fig. 6 uses only the XRD
   data. The goodness of fit for a Rietveld analysis of the XRD data is
   usually expressed by statistical parameters but can also be visualized
   as a difference pattern, shown at the bottom of Fig. 6.

   [BasaltCCDw-oanalysis-s.JPG] Figure 6. Results of Rietveld refinement
   of basalt using CHEMIN diffraction data.


   The direct consideration of the ratios in which the calculated minerals
   are mixed to reproduce the observed pattern provides the weight
   proportions of minerals that best match the measured XRD data. These
   weight proportions are listed in Table 3, calculated for both the
   CHEMIN XRD pattern as shown in Fig. 6 and for XRD data of the same
   sample collected on a laboratory diffractometer. The errors listed are
   calculated instrumental errors of approximately two sigma. Note that
   the relative error varies not only with mineral abundance but also with
   mineral type. Clearly some minerals abundances can be more precisely
   measured than others; for example, the feldspars are complicated not
   only by ternary cation exchange (Ca, Na, K) and associated framework
   Al/Si ratio variations, but in high-alumina basalts such as this sample
   they also form as phenocryst and groundmass phases, with separate
   exsolution histories, resulting in superposed complex mixtures of
   high-temperature and low-temperature structural types. Although this
   makes the feldspar calculations more error-prone and, in this sample,
   of greater abundance than should be present (compare the calculated
   normative value in Table 3), in fact the complexity of the pattern
   indicates a wealth of unused information. Experience with other complex
   rocks (Bish and Post, 1993) indicates that advances within the next
   decade should allow the extraction of far more information from
   CHEMIN-quality data than currently obtainable. It should also be noted
   that in some respects, the Rietveld data are more accurate than a
   normative calculation. The normative calculation is exceptionally
   sensitive to SiO[2] content and the norm shown in column (3) of Table 3
   reports less olivine and more oxide minerals than the sample
   petrography allow. This reflects the magnitude of the errors commonly
   associated with instrumental determinations of SiO[2] content in rock
   samples. In this instance, the Rietveld determinations of mineral
   abundance are closer to reality. The XRD-based analysis also identifies
   phlogopite, which is not recognized in the normative calculation, and
   does not assume spurious occurrences of ilmenite and hematite.

   Table 3: Rietveld Analyses of Basalt using XRD data from CHEMIN and a
   Laboratory Diffractometer, Compared with a Normative Calculation (all
   data in weight percent)


                                 (1) CHEMIN

                        (2) laboratory diffractometer

                          (3) normative calculation

   forsterite

                                  7.5(3.0)

                                  9.3(2.0)

                                     2.7

   albite

                                  28.9(7.0)

                                  22.2(5.0)

                                    35.2

   anorthite

                                  17.5(5.0)

                                  27.3(3.0)

                                    20.7

   sanidine

                                  37.9(8.0)

                                  28.8(6.0)

                                    17.5

   augite

                                  4.7(2.0)

                                  9.3(2.0)

                                    10.5

   magnetite

                                  1.9(1.0)

                                  1.1(1.0)

                                     3.3

   ilmenite

                                     --

                                     --

                                     3.4

   hematite

                                     --

                                     --

                                     4.2

   fluorapatite

                                  1.6(1.0)

                                  2.1(1.0)

                                     2.3

   phlogopite

                                  0.1(0.1)

                                  0.1(0.1)

                                     --


   A prototype CHEMIN instrument has been in operation since July of 1996.
   This prototype has verified the principle of CCD-based simultaneous XRD
   and XRF, but the instrument is composed of surrogate components that do
   not illustrate the full capabilities that can be realized with an
   optimized instrument. The prototype CHEMIN instrument has demonstrated
   detection and quantification of minerals at abundances as low as 1%, as
   well as the ability to provide quantitative chemistry and mineralogy
   from complex mixtures (Table 3).


   The CHEMIN instrument can be demonstrated as a series of subsystems:

   1) Field-emission X-ray tube

   At present, a standard laboratory X-ray tube is used with CHEMIN, but
       the flight instrument will use a miniaturized X-ray source of new
       design (being developed under an active phase-II SBIR). The
       electron source, electrostatic focusing element geometry, and anode
       configuration for a low-voltage X-ray tube have been developed by
       Moxtec, Inc., under phase-I and phase-II SBIR contracts. Moxtec,
       Inc. will be responsible for delivery of the power supply, X-ray
       tube source and collimator system.

   2) CUBIC-quality CCD

   The technology of thin polygate CCD systems is evolving rapidly. We
       have available several options for pursuing this subsystem,
       including chips that are becoming available from Philips as well as
       from English Electric Valve and other companies. An expanded
       variety of performance factors, including improved efficiencies for
       heavy-element analysis, may be obtained in the near future. Part of
       the demonstration methodology will be to evaluate the various
       options and determine the optimal design.

   3) Rock-powder preparation system

   In general, mechanical handling of rock samples, soils, and ices is one
       of the more difficult problems in robotic analysis of
       extraterrestrial bodies. Both eolian dusts and soils can be readily
       collected and can often be analyzed without extensive processing.
       Full analysis of solid geologic media will almost invariably
       require a method for obtaining powders. Fortunately, all evidence
       points to the fine grained nature of cometary material. Therefore,
       sample preparation for a cometary mission is not a daunting task as
       the solid materials on cometary surfaces are already fine grained.
       Sample "preparation" will consist primarily of mounting the
       fine-grained material for analysis. In situ analysis is preferable
       to sample return because the temperatures associated with sample
       return are not sufficiently low to ensure that the various cometary
       ices will not recrystallize or form clathrates. For accurate phase
       identification by diffraction methods, the solid materials on
       cometary surfaces must be analyzed in situ.
       In the event that solid geologic media are anticipated, alternate
       sample preparation methods will be used. Our preferred powder
       generation and collection systems are presently focused on (1)
       piezoelectric microdrilling or (2) explosive powdering systems.
       Both methods are developed and are currently under investigation,
       and both have prototype systems available that will be tested
       against a variety of target lithologies. Part of the subsystem test
       may be to determine how representative the samples are of true rock
       composition, as well as the reliability of adequate powder delivery
       to a sample carousel.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Pertinent References


   Bish, D. L. and S. A. Howard (1988). "Quantitative phase analysis using
       the Rietveld method." Jour. Appl. Cryst 21: 86-91.
       Bish, D. L. and J. E. Post (1989). Modern Powder Diffraction. Min.
       Soc. Amer. Reviews in Mineralogy, vol. 20, 369 pp.
       Bish, D. L. and J. E. Post (1993). "Quantitative mineralogical
       analysis using the Rietveld full-pattern fitting method." Amer.
       Min. 78: 932-942.
       Blake, D. F., et al. (1992a). "Design of an X-ray diffraction /
       X-ray fluorescence instrument for planetary applications." LPSC
       XXIII: 117-118.
       Blake, D. F. et al. (1992b). "CHEMIN: Chemical and Mineralogical
       Analysis for Planetary Exploration using combined X-ray
       Fluorescence and X-ray Diffraction." Discovery Mission Workshop,
       San Juan Capistrano, CA.
       Blake, D. F. et al. (1993). "X-ray Diffraction Apparatus." U.S.
       Patent No. 5,491,738.
       Blake, D. F. et al. (1994). "A mineralogical instrument for
       planetary applications." Lun. Plan. Sci. Conf. XXV: 121-122.
       Brodie, I. and P. R. Schwoebel (1994). "Vacuum microelectronic
       devices." Pric. IEEE 82: 1006-1034.
       Clark and VanHart, (1981). "The salts of Mars. Icarus 45, 370-378.
       Das Gupta, K. et al. (1966). "A Combined Focusing X-ray
       Diffractometer and Nondispersive X-ray Spectrometer for Lunar and
       Planetary Analysis." Adv. in X-ray Analysis 9: 221-241.
       Fegley, B. Jr., Treiman, A. H., and Sharpton, V. L. (1992) Venus
       surface mineralogy: Observational and theoretical constraints.
       Proc. Lunar and Planet Sci 22, 3-19.
       Kraft, R. P. (1994). "Soft X-ray spectroscopy using Charge-Coupled
       Devices with thin poly gates and floating gate output amplifiers."
       Proc. SPIE 2280.
       Spindt, C. A. (1968). "A thin film field emission cathode." J.
       Appl. Physics 39: 3504-3505.
       Spindt, C. A. (1992). "Microfabricated field-emission and
       field-ionization sources." Surface Science 266(145-154).
       Toothacker, W. S. and L. E. Preuss (1968). "Radioisotopes as Zero
       Power Sources of X-rays for X-ray Diffraction Analysis." Nucleonics
       in Aerospace, Instrument Society of America: 341-343.
       Vaniman, D. T. et al. (1991a). "Integrated XRD and XRF Data from a
       Single Instrument for Planetary Surface Exploration." Clay Min.
       Soc. 28th Ann Mtng.: 157.
       Vaniman, D. T. et al. (1991b). "In-situ Planetary Surface Analyses:
       The Potential of X-ray Diffraction with Simultaneous X-ray
       Fluorescence." Lunar and Planet. Sci. XXII: 1429-1430.

     __________________________________________________________________

   The CHEMIN team

   David Bish, Los Alamos National Laboratory

   David Bish received a Ph.D. in Mineralogy and Petrology from
   Pennsylvania State University in 1977. After graduation, he completed
   three years of postdoctoral studies in the Department of Geological
   Sciences, Harvard University. Since 1980, he has been a research
   scientist in the Earth and Environmental Sciences Division of Los
   Alamos National Laboratory where he presently serves as Project Leader
   for Yucca Mountain Mineralogy-Petrology studies. He has authored or
   co-authored more than 75 peer-reviewed articles, three books and 150
   abstracts covering all aspects of mineralogy and diffraction theory.
   His areas of specialization include clay and zeolite mineralogy, X-ray
   powder diffraction, and Rietveld refinement applications. He has
   received numerous honors and awards, and presently serves as president
   of the Clay Minerals Society and as associate editor for Zeitschrift
   für Kristallographie, an international crystallography journal.

   David Blake, NASA Ames Research Center

   David Blake received a Ph.D. in Geology and Mineralogy from the
   University of Michigan in 1983. After graduation, he completed two
   years of postdoctoral studies in the Department of Geological Sciences,
   University of Michigan and an additional two years as a National
   Research Council fellow at NASA Ames Research Center. Since 1988, he
   has been a research scientist in the Space Sciences Division of NASA
   Ames Research Center. His areas of specialization include the
   characterization of extraterrestrial ice analogs and interplanetary
   dust particles by electron microscopy, diffraction and X-ray
   microanalysis, and new analytical and diffraction techniques. He has
   authored or co-authored 25 peer-reviewed articles, and edited or
   written chapters for two books.

   Steve J. Chipera, Los Alamos National Laboratory

   Steve Chipera received an M.Sc. in Geology from the University of North
   Dakota in 1985. Since 1985, he has been a research scientist in the
   Earth and Environmental Sciences Division of Los Alamos National
   Laboratory where he serves as member of the Yucca Mountain
   Mineralogy-Petrology team. He has authored or co-authored more than 21
   peer-reviewed publications, 2 book chapters, 11 conference proceedings,
   over 50 abstracts, and numerous Los Alamos Laboratory reports. His
   areas of specialization include X-ray powder diffraction, water
   sorption/desorption reactions in hydrous minerals, and thermodynamic
   modeling of mineral equilibria.

   Stewart A. Collins, Jet Propulsion Laboratory

   Stewart A. Collins received a B.S. degree from Principia College in
   1969 and has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory since that
   time. He was imaging science experiment representative for the Mariner
   Mars 1969 and the Voyager missions, and was a member of the Voyager
   Imaging Science Team. He is supervisor of the JPL Imaging Systems
   Section's Advanced Development Group, which is responsible for the
   development of imaging detectors for various NASA space-imaging
   systems. His experience includes performance analysis of scientific
   instruments, mission operations planning and implementation for imaging
   investigations, conceptual design of CCDs and of CCD instruments, and
   the management of CCD fabrication procurements and of CCD test
   activities. He received NASA's Exceptional Service Medal in 1981. Mr.
   Collins has authored or co-authored more than 30 peer-reviewed
   articles.

   David Vaniman, Los Alamos National Laboratory

   David Vaniman received a Ph.D. in Earth Sciences from the University of
   California, Santa Cruz in 1976. From 1976-1979, he concentrated on
   lunar regolith studies as a postdoctoral researcher at the State
   University of New York, Stony Brook. He has been employed from 1979 to
   the present as a research scientist in the Earth and Environmental
   Sciences Division of Los Alamos National Laboratory. In this capacity,
   he managed the mineralogy-petrology research group for the Yucca
   Mountain Project (investigation of a potential high-level nuclear waste
   repository in Nevada) from 1981-1988 and 1992-1993. Dr. Vaniman has
   authored or co-authored more than 60 peer-reviewed articles and
   co-edited Lunar Sourcebook: A User's Guide to the Moon. His research
   interests include the mineralogy and geochemistry of igneous and
   metamorphic rocks and their alteration assemblages, soil mineralogy,
   lunar and planetary petrology, and instrumentation for planetary
   mineralogic and geochemical studies.
