http://fuego.jpl.nasa.gov

   [USEMAP:jplnav.gif]

   [USEMAP:nasalogo.gif] [USEMAP:header.gif]

   [USEMAP:menu.gif] [corner.gif]

                      Welcome to the Integrated Cryobot
                        Experimental Probe Web Site!

   A cryobot is a vehicle which moves through ice by melting the ice wall
   directly in front of it taking measurements of the encountered
   environment, and sending the collected data or images to the surface of
   the ice. It is a new tool in development designed to penetrate ice and
   avoid any contamination of the environment, it is also a measuring
   instrument to reveal the internal structure and composition of the ice
   as well as the inner glacial and subglacial environment: including its
   physical, chemical and biological characteristics. Fully developed the
   cryobot will be a tool of exploration, a tool to be used by many
   scientific disciplines, foremost glaciology, but also by many other
   earth and planetary science fields.

   Ice cave The Integrated Cryobot Experimental (ICE) Probe probe is a
   concept brought on by findings and research done on such projects as
   lake Vostok and the lake on Europa. The probe takes on the saying,
   "boldly go where no man has gone before". It is a very intimidating
   project, one that requires almost as much imagination as it does brains
   and communication. If you can imagine a probe entering an atmosphere
   never before penetrated, you are only hitting part of what this
   experiment has to offer. The cryobot itself will allow us to explore a
   world we have never seen. It may alter how we view life and the
   conditions in which it exists. The probe uses an active and passive
   melt processes, allowing it to penetrate it way through ice found on
   both our planet and terrestrial planets, venturing to depths never
   before achieved. The cryobot's design is unique to this task. The probe
   itself is only 12 cm X 1 meter. Though it may seem small, the cryobot
   will have the capability to melt through a distance of beyond 2
   kilometers. It purpose to create ice mobility and enable us to build
   upon current research and projects.The technological advance will allow
   projects such as the hydrobot piggy back off its success. Thus,
   eventually housing new technological advances and equipment.


                                         The 2000 year-end test movie
                                     The 2000 year-end test movie. 10.5 Mb

   To browse this web site, click the links at either the left, or at the
   bottom of each page.
     [footerc.gif] [footerl.jpg]


       General Info | History | Glaciology | Gallery | Team | Links |
                          Publications | What's New

       For more information, please contact Gindi.French@jpl.nasa.gov

                  This page was last updated July 19, 2001
