http://www.fca.gov

   Skip to Main Content     Pictures of Farm Scene

   FCA Homepage About FCA News and Events FCA's Publications Legal
   Information Farm Credit System Institutions

                                   graphic
                             Search FCA homepage

                              Link to About FCA

   graphic of a red button About FCA
   graphic of a red button FCA Board
   graphic of a red button Borrower Rights
   graphic of a red button Organization Chart
   graphic of a red button Contacts
   graphic of a red button Career Opportunities
   graphic of a red button Procurement Opportunities
   graphic of a red button Freedom of Information Act

                           Link to News and Events

   graphic of a red button News
   graphic of a red button Events

                            Link to Publications

   graphic of a red button Publications About FCA
   graphic of a red button Information About the FCS
   graphic of a red button Resources for the FCS
   graphic of a red button Archives

                          Link to Legal Information

   graphic of a red button FCA Handbook
                           graphic of a button Pending Regulations & Notices
   graphic of a red button Legal Opinions

                          Link to FCS Institutions

   graphic of a button FCS Institutions
                       graphic of a button Description
                       graphic of a button Directory
   graphic of a button Call Reports
                       graphic of a button Instructions
                       graphic of a button Submission Files
                       graphic of a button Submit to FCA
                       graphic of a button View Call Reports
   graphic of a button Corporate
                       graphic of a button Activity
   graphic of a button Farmer Mac
                       graphic of a button Risk-Based Capital
   graphic of a button Resources for the FCS

                          Accessibility Information
                          Accessibility Information

                            Link to Firstgov.gov


   FCA Board Seeks Ways to Improve Flow of Funds to Agriculture and Rural
   America

   Picture of Reyna and Jorgensen at the Iowa Public Meeting

   Michael M. Reyna (far left), FCA Chairman and CEO, and Board Member Ann
   Jorgensen (far right), heard testimony from representatives of farm
   organizations and agricultural lenders on both the need for and
   possible improvements to access to agricultural and rural financing.
   The public meeting was held August 3 in Des Moines, Iowa. Copies of
   testimony presented are available on this Web site under Events.


   FCA Welcomes Chapter of Blacks In Government

                          [Big%20Group%20copy.jpg]

   Chairman Michael M. Reyna and Board Member Ann Jorgensen (center, front
   row) joined members of FCA's chapter of Blacks in Government (BIG)
   during its inaugural ceremony. Secretary to the Board Kelly Mikel
   Williams (far right, back row) will serve as the chapter's first
   President. FCA's chapter is one of 300 in the United States and 56 in
   the Washington, D.C. area. BIG has 2.5 million members nationwide,
   whose goals are to promote equity in all aspects of American life,
   excellence in public service, and opportunity for all Americans.

                            graphic of what's hot

         New Web Site Service Allows Online Access to Financial Data

   FCA announces a new Internet service that gives the public easy access
   to the quarterly Uniform Call Report data submitted by each Farm Credit
   System institution. The new service is available on the FCS
   Institutions page under View Call Reports.


     Home | About FCA | News & Events | Publications | Legal Info | FCS
                                Institutions
                          Accessibility Information
      Please refer to our Privacy Policy for important information that
                  should be read before proceeding further.
   Some documents contained in this Web site are PDF files and require the
                                   use of
   the Adobe Portable Document Format 4.0 (PDF) viewer, available for free
                          from the Adobe Web site.
         Comments or Questions? Contact FCA Office of Congressional
        and Public Affairs (703) 883-4056 or e-mail info-line@fca.gov
                           Last Updated: 11/08/01
