http://natoasi.msfc.nasa.gov

   Perspectives in Astrobiology - NATO Advanced Studies Institute -
   Chania, Crete, Sept.29-Oct.10, 2000

   Agenda

   Lecturers

   Registration/ Application

   Hotel/ Travel

   Sponsors

   Scientific
   Organizing
   Committee

   Home


                         This ASI has been postponed.
               Watch this site for announcement of a new date.

   The objective of "Perspectives in Astrobiology" is to provide a
   systematic, in-depth, treatment of the new and rapidly developing field
   of Astrobiology by distinguished lecturers.

   This Advanced Study Institute considers the paleoemergence of life on
   Earth and Mars and the relevance of microbial extremophiles from the
   deep subsurface and hydrothermal vents and ancient viable
   microorganisms from deep ice in the polar caps and permafrost to
   planetary habitats and Astrobiology.

   Morphological, biogeochemical and stable isotope biomarkers and
   methodologies important for the recognition of biogenicity in ancient
   terrestrial rocks, meteorites, astromaterials and samples from space
   missions to other solar system bodies will be developed.

   Astrobiology is a newly emerging multidisciplinary field triggered by
   paradigm shifts resulting from discoveries regarding microbial
   extremophiles and evidence for possible microfossils in the Mars
   meteorite.

   Astrobiology addresses fundamental questions of interest to all
   mankind: "Is life unique to Earth-or is it a Cosmic Imperative?" "What
   are the physical, temporal, and environmental limitations of life on
   Earth?" "What is the origin, distribution, evolution, and destiny of
   life in the Universe?"

   Scientists working in the field of Astrobiology must provide
   information required for the implementation of instrumentation,
   spacecraft, and methodologies essential to the search for and recognize
   the evidence of life on other bodies in our solar system and habitable
   regimes in the Cosmos.

   The study of microbial life in extreme environments on Earth (i.e.
   extremophiles) is needed to establish the properties and
   characteristics of life that are universal and measurable. To know
   where and how to search for life in the Cosmos, we must understand the
   physical, chemical, ecological, and environmental limitations and the
   spatial and temporal distribution of microbial life on Earth.

   Understanding the diversity and the biosignatures of microbial life on
   Earth is critical to the detection and recognition of life and its
   traces in returned samples, astromaterials and on other solar system
   bodies.

   This Advanced Study Institute is needed at this time to address central
   themes of Astrobiology by in-depth lectures delivered by distinguished
   scientists at the forefront of this newly emerging field. It will
   produce the first in-depth book devoted exclusively to the major
   aspects of this rapidly developing new field.

   The lectures delivered by internationally known scientists, including
   several Principal Investigators of the NASA Astrobiology Institute,
   will address the primary topics of Astrobiology.

   The importance of definitive indicators of biogenicity to the
   recognition of traces of life in ancient terrestrial rocks, returned
   samples and astromaterials will be explored.

   These include the morphological, biogeochemical, stable isotope, and
   mineralogical biomarkers that may be interpreted as evidence of life.
   The origins and paleoemergence of life on Earth and Mars and the
   significance to planetary habitats are to be considered. Lectures will
   detail microbial extremophiles from exotic chemical environments,
   hydrothermal vents, the deep hot biosphere, and ancient viable
   microorganisms from permafrost, glaciers, and polar ice caps.

   The lectures will explore the implications of the wide distribution and
   robust characteristics of terrestrial microbiota to the origins of life
   on Earth and methodologies for searching for evidence of life elsewhere
   in the Cosmos.
   NASA Logo

"Perspectives in Astrobiology" is co-sponsored by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
Scientific Affairs Division.

   NATO Logo

       NASA Official:

                    Ron Koczor

                                                 Site Curator:

                                                Nancy Kabakjian

       Web Services Provided by:  IDS  -CSC

                                           NASA Web Privacy Statement
