http://leahy.senate.gov

   Skip to main content


   Top of Home Page Banner
   Senator Leahy's Biography For Vermonters Major Issues Constituent
   Services Press Releases and Statements Senator Leahy's Office Right
   banner

   Thumbnail Image of a Vermont Country Road Photographic Album of Fall in
   Vermont by Patrick Leahy
   Ski Vermont Snow Reports
   [snow.jpg]

   CONSTITUENT SERVICES

   Access to Your Federal Government
   Check out these web sites for some of the
   most commonly requested information.
   Casework
   If you are an individual who needs help resolving a problem with a
   federal agency or program, call one of my caseworkers for help.
   Comments/Opinions
   I am always interested in knowing what Vermonters have to say.  Send an
   e-mail or letter to my Washington office.
   Federal Grant Assistance
   Explore these links for information about federal funding opportunities
   for your organization or municipality.
   Special Greetings
   Call my Burlington office if you would like a congratulatory letter
   sent to a Vermonter who is celebrating a special occasion.
   U.S. Flags
   My office can help you in purchasing United States flags that have been
   flown over the U.S. Capitol.
   U.S. Service Academy Nominations
   High School students and guidance counselors can contact my Burlington
   office to request nominations for our military Academies.
   Visiting Washington, D.C.
   Planning A Trip To Washington, DC?  Click Here For Tourism Information
   After September 11

       Site Search

   [All Pages_____]

   Enter search terms
   separated by blanks:
   _____________

   Search!
   .



   Contact the Senator



               Targeting Terrorism
          Innocence Protection Act
   Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
         Internet/High Tech Issues
                   Medical Privacy


   Vermont Congressional Delegation's Update On Postal Delays Affecting
   Mail
   To Vermont's Members of Congress

   Businesses hurt by reservist call-ups may apply for Military Reservist
   Economic Injury Disaster Loans offered by the U.S. Small Business
   Administration.  For more information call 1-800-U-ASK-SBA or
   800-659-2955
   or visit SBA's website at www.sba.gov.

                     Statement of Sen. Leahy, Chairman,
    Senate Judiciary Committee - "Preserving Our Freedoms While Defending
                             Against Terrorism"
                              December 6, 2001


   Web Cam of Burlington, VT

   Live image of Burlington Vermont


   WHAT'S NEW

   Reaction of Senator Leahy To The President's State Of The Union
   Address  January 29, 2002

   Statement of Senator Leahy - Judicial Nominations: The Way Forward
   Senate Floor  January 25, 2002

   Leahy Secures F-16 Technology Upgrades Based on Vermont Air Guard's
   Experience  January 18, 2002

   Senators Seek Changes In Sept. 11 Victim Fund Rules  January 17, 2002

   Leahy Seeks Clarifications on Andersen's DOJ Contract  January 16, 2002

   Reaction of Senator Leahy to the Complaint Filed Against John Walker
   Lindh  January 15, 2002
   Reaction of Senator Leahy to the Justice Department's Announcement on
   'New Source Review' Clean Air Lawsuits  January 15, 2002

   President Signs Bill Expanding Initiatives To Combat Global Spread Of
   Infectious Diseases January 10, 2002

   Comment of Sen. Leahy on Attorney General Ashcroft's Decision to Recuse
   Himself from the Enron Case  January 10, 2002

   President To Sign Bill That Sends Vermont $1.6 Million More To Prepare
   Against Terrorist Acts  January 10, 2002

                             Contact information
