http://www.capitol.hawaii.gov

                                   Aloha!

                               Welcome to the

      Hawaii State Legislature Website Hawaii State Legislature Website
      Hawaii State Legislature Website Search
                                       Status and Documents
                                       Conference
                                       Legislative Information
                                       House
                                       Senate
                                       Felix Study
                                       Archives
                                       Links
                                       Feedback
                                       Site Map

        Search      Status & Documents      Conference      Legislative
                                 Information
       House       Senate       Felix Study       Archives       Links
                           Feedback       Site Map

      We make every effort to comply to ADA standards. If you have any
              problems with any of these pages, please contact
       webmaster@Capitol.hawaii.gov with the page address and problems
                                encountered.



     The Hawaii state government is divided into three separate and coequal
     branches - the legislative, executive, and judicial.
            The Legislature establishes our laws and creates services that
     benefit the people of Hawaii. The executive branch executes those laws
     and administers the various services of the government. The judiciary
     interprets the laws and maintains a statewide system of justice.
            March 15, 1969 marked the historic opening of Hawaii's State
     Capitol building.   The State Capitol -- with its renowned spacious,
     open-air structure and symbolic features -- is home to the executive
     and legislative branches of Hawaii's state government and the center of
     legislative activity in the State.
            The aesthetically-pleasing building consists of cone-shaped
     Senate and House chambers, symbolizing the volcanoes of the Hawaiian
     Islands; impressive building columns, symbolizing the palm trees that
     grace our island state; and a vast pool of water surrounding the State
     Capitol, symbolizing Hawaii as the only island-state in the nation.
            In fall of 1991, the State Capitol underwent a major
     renovation.  The project included removing of asbestos from the
     building, improving the air conditioning system, installing new
     electrical wiring, enhancing the communications systems, and making the
     building more accessible to persons with disabilities.  The State
     Capitol re-opened during the summer of 1995.
