http://www.delphi.jccbi.gov

   FRAME: sidebar.html
   FRAME: title
   FRAME: BOTTOM

               Delphi.jpg (15428 bytes)               [budget]

         CFO Home Page

                                                            FMC Members
                                            DOT Home Page   Oracle Home Page
          DELPHI Home           Contacts   System Documents   Newsletters
  Solution Demonstration Labs    Search

                                                                            FAQs
                                                               Talk to Us

   In the Spring of 1997, the Office of Financial Management (OFM) and the
   Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center (MMAC) conducted a study to
   determine  whether DOT could evolve the Departmental Accounting and
   Financial Information System (DAFIS) to one that would meet the current
   and future needs of the Department.  An evaluation team was formed with
   representatives from the U.S. Coast Guard, Federal Aviation
   Administration, Federal Highway Administration, the OFM and MMAC to
   develop a DOT Functional Evaluation Criteria document to assess
   commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) systems.  A transition team was also
   formed with representatives from OFM and MMAC to work with the
   evaluation team to develop  a formal evaluation process.

   The study concluded with an operational capabilities demonstrated (OCD)
   of the U.S. Coast Guard's system (Oracle Federal Financials) in
   December 1997.  The OCD was conducted by presenting demonstrations of
   25 "super scenarios" which assimilated the Department's most complex
   business processes as defined by the Operating Administrations (OAs),
   and incorporated the DOT Functional Evaluation Criteria.   Financial
   Management Committee members completed formal evaluations of the
   expected results.  Given the high percentage of expected results
   successfully demonstrated by the Coast Guard system, the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer endorsed its evolutionary use throughout the DOT.
   This program is called DELPHI.

                                     bar

           DELPHI Documents may be downloaded using Adobe Acrobat.

      Getacro.gif (1714 bytes)                         Fp114a.gif (3536
           bytes)                    IE_ANIMATED.gif (1604 bytes)
