http://wmu.nat.cap.gov

   ES Dog

                                            WMU


                        Civil Air Patrol Wing Management Utilities
                                                           CAP Seal

   Welcome to the Civil Air Patrol Wing Management Utilities Home Page.
   The Wing Management Utilities (WMU) represent a set of forms and
   utilities to assist in the automation of tasks associated with CAP
   Operations and Emergency Services.

   There are two general categories of the utilities available for your
   use. These are the Web WMU and the Stand-Alone MMU. Click on the
   appropriate link to use or view additional information.

   The server is not handling Netscape browser users correctly. Until this
   is resolved, please use Internet Explorer as the browser for the WMU.
   Also, we are having some memory issues that cause the server to run
   slowly. Most of the issues have been addressed; however the final
   solution will be to convert to an SQL database. This should be
   avaailable early in 2002. Please bear with us while we work on the
   issues.

   Welcome to the WMU Home Page. Click here to see what features have
   recently been added to the WMU.

   Web WMU Stand-Alone MMU
   The Web WMU provides CAP members with a tool to maintain information
   required for CAP operational missions. It is an on-line tool intended
   to provide individual members with the ability to examine and update
   personal and pilot information and to provide unit/wing/region staff
   with tools to provide certifications and specialty qualifications. The
   Stand-Alone MMU provides a set of utilities to automate and reduce
   paperwork during the execution of actual missions. Information is
   download from the Web MMU prior to mission execution and mission
   results can be uploaded back to the Web MMU for archival and member
   currency updates.

   The Web WMU requires a connection to the internet and either Internet
   Explorer or Netscape web browser.

   Much of the information used in the WMU is derived from the NHQ
   databases. This information is generally synchronized once daily.

   The Stand-Alone MMU runs on a computer that is running Windows
   95/98/2000 or NT. Multiple computers can be networked to support the
   requirements of a wide variety of missions.

   The current Stand-Alone MMU build is: 6.2.0

   The current build supports CAPR 60-3

   National Headquarters requires the following disclaimer:

   REFERENCES TO PRODUCTS OR SERVICES AT THIS WEBSITE SITE DOES NOT
   CONSTITUTE AN ENDORSEMENT OF THOSE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES BY CAP NATIONAL
   HEADQUARTERS.

   Both the WMU and the MMU were created by and are maintained by PANDER
   Systems. To report bugs or for additional information, please contact:

                                Pete Andersen
                                   Maj/CAP
                      Pacific Region Emergency Services
                              pla@starband.net

                            39505 SW Gibson Road
                              Gaston, OR 97119
                                503-985-0446
