http://www.na.nmfs.gov

   Dept. of Commerce

   Woods Hole, MA Laboratory

   Milford, CT
   Laboratory

   J.J. Howard
   Sandy Hook, NJ Laboratory

   Narragansett, RI Laboratory

   National
   Systematics
   Laboratory

   Northeast
   Regional
   Office

                                   US Flag

                               NOAA Fisheries
                     Northeast Fisheries Science Center
                           Narragansett Laboratory

          Conserving Our Nation's Living Oceans For Over 125 Years


   Narragansett Laboratory

   NOAA

   NEFSC Page

   Center
   Research
   Programs and
   Organization

   Search
   NOAA
   Fisheries

   Contact Information

   Directions to the Lab

   Special Features of the Lab

   Aquarium

   R/V Albatross IV

   R/V Delaware II

          The Lab...

   The Narragansett Laboratory is located on three acres of federally
   owned land on the Bay Campus of the University of Rhode Island (URI).
   It is adjacent to URIs Graduate School of Oceanography and the National
   Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory of the
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The facility consists of one
   main building and aquarium, and four adjacent office/laboratory modular
   buildings. The laboratory is a facility with a specialized staff of 50
   supported by advanced oceanographic and biological systems for carrying
   out research on the effects of changing environmental conditions on the
   growth and survival of fish stocks from an ecosystems perspective.
   Research is conducted on the effects of changing oceanographic and
   ecological conditions on the productivity and health of the Northeast
   U.S. Continental Shelf ecosystem in relation to the recovery of
   depleted fish stocks. Studies are also conducted on the demography and
   ecology of shark populations in response to oceanographic conditions to
   provide information for shark management plans for sustaining those
   populations. The studies are conducted in support of two major
   objectives of NOAAs Strategic Plan - Build Sustainable Fisheries and
   Sustain Healthy Coasts.

          Research at the Narragansett Laboratory

     * Marine Ecosystem Studies

     * Large Marine Ecosystems (LMEs)
     * Ocean Productivity
     * NOAA Coast Watch - Northeast Node

     Ecosystem Monitoring
     * Ships of Opportunity
     * Ecosystem Monitoring Surveys
     * Narragansett Bay Project

     Early Life Stage Ecology
     * Laboratory Experimental Studies
     * Globec - Global Ocean Ecosystem Dynamics
     * Plankton Demography

     Apex Predators (Shark!)

     CMER Program - Cooperative Marine Education and Research

     Office of Coast Survey - Nautical Charts

     Habitat Restoration, NMFS Northeast Region

     Fisheries Engineering

     Aquarium        Bay Campus Links...

     * URI - University of Rhode Island, Graduate School of Oceanography
     * Environmental Protection Agency - Atlantic Ecology Division

                           Contact Information ...

           Northeast Fisheries Science Center
           Narragansett Laboratory
           28 Tarzwell Drive
           Narragansett, RI 02882
           (401)782-3200


                  Fisheries Questions?
           Check out the information page...   Webpage Comments?
                                             webmaster@na.nmfs.gov

             This Document Was Last Modified on October 1, 2001

                           NOAA Privacy Statement
