http://ntalpha.bfa.nsf.gov

National Science Foundation

                                              Budget Internet Information System

                Providing Statistical and Funding Information


   Related Information:
   Budget Division
   Office of Budget, Finance and Award Management
   FastLane
   NSF Home Page




   Award Summary: by State/Institution
        Shows the number of awards and the amount of funding by state and
   type of institution receiving an NSF award.  The institutions are
   grouped into:
     * Federal -- Goverment agency;
     * Industry -- Large Corporation or business;
     * Small Business; and
     * University -- Academic institutions of higher education regardless
       of accredition status, that offer at least two years of
       college-level studies in residence.

     Click on a specific state to see a list of its awarded institutions.
   Click on a specific institution to see the list of awards. Click on an
   award to see the abstract and other information. Five years of funding
   data is available and can be limited by NSF directorate or division.


   Award Summary: by Top Institutions
        Provides the same information as above, but in order of those
   institutions receiving the largest portion of NSF Funding.


   Summary Proposal and Award Information (Funding Rate) by State and
   Organization
        Provides information on the number of proposals
   and awards, Funding Rates, Average Decision Time, Mean Award Duration
   and Median Award Size.  Average Decision Time measures the time from
   when NSF receives a proposal to when a final decision is made.
   Information is presented by NSF organization.  To see the information
   by State, go to the "Data by" dropdown, select State and then press,
   "View Report". Ten years of data is available.


   NSF Funding History by Account and FY
        Shows NSF Funding by Account since 1951 when the agency began.


   NOTE: These applications use "session variables" to allow you to obtain
   information on NSF proposal and award statistics at varying levels of
   detail and for different "cuts" of the data. If no information or
   incomplete information appears in the data table when you access this
   site, you can fix the problem by changing your browser security options
   to permit cookies. The session variables are used only for the duration
   of the individual session and only for navigation within the
   application. No personally identifiable information is collected, and
   no information is retained by NSF after the session is complete.

   Contact Information:
   Project Leader, Vernon Ross
   vross@nsf.gov
   703-292-4501
   Fax,703-292-9007           Budget Division
                              Office of Budget, Finance & Award Management
                              National Science Foundation
                              Last Modified: 6/5/2001
