http://www.fdic.gov

   If scripts are enabled in the browser, the current date will be
   displayed here.
   Skip Site Summary Navigation
   Deposit Insurance Bank Data Regulations and Examinations Consumers and
   Communities Buying from, Selling to FDIC Newsroom, Events and FOIA
   About FDIC


   Quick Search

                          __________  Search FindIt
                               Advanced Search

   Skip Site Detail Navigation
                 Deposit Insurance
     Are My Deposits Insured?
     Is My Bank Insured?
     Which Investments Are not Insured?
     Insurance Funds and Assessments
     International Deposit Insurance

                     Bank Data
     Individual Banks
     Banking Industry
      Analytical
      Statistical
      Historical

            Regulations and Examination
     Resources for Bankers
        Examinations

     Community Reinvestment Act
     Compliance
     Information Systems & E-banking
     Safety & Soundness
     Trust
     Laws & Regulations
     Examiner Training Program

             Consumers and Communities
     Consumer Affairs Program & Publications
     Community Affairs Program
     Questions and Complaints
     Looking for the Best Mortgage

            Buying from, Selling to FDIC
        Buying Assets from the FDIC

     Loan Sales
     Real Estate Sales
     Historical Sales Information
        Selling to the FDIC

     Goods and Services
     Legal Services

             Newsroom, Events and FOIA
     Newsroom
     Publications & Documents
     Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
     Conferences & Events

                     About FDIC
     Ask FDIC
     Public Comments to the FDIC
     Learn about the FDIC
     Jobs @ FDIC
     FDIC Strategic Plans and Reports
     Diversity at the FDIC

   Access to FDIC Washington, DC, Facilities

   International Visitors Training Program
   A three-day program designed for officials of foreign banking, deposit
   insurance and resolution authorities.

   FDIC Consumer News Special Report
   Nearly all bank depositors are fully insured. Make sure you are, too.

   [spacer.gif] What's New [spacer.gif]

   Delays in Mail Delivery
   Alternative ways to send time-sensitive materials to the FDIC.

   Online Resume Books
   An online resume book offers potential employers knowledgeable, trained
   employees with broad experience.

                                                           More What's New

   Topics of Interest

   [wspace.gif]

   Meet the Chairman
   Donald Powell, 18th FDIC Chairman.

   Jobs@FDIC
   A list of current nationwide job vacancies at the FDIC and descriptions
   of salary and benefits

   FDIC Real Estate Retrieval System
   Searchable database of property for sale by property type, state, city,
   cost, other criteria. Updated weekly.

   Institution Directory (ID)
   Searchable directory of FDIC-insured institutions by name, city, or
   state.

   Financial Institution Letters
   postmark Guidance for insured institutions about such matters as
   regulations, policies, and special alerts.

   Call and Thrift Financial Reports
   Detailed public financial information for all FDIC-insured
   institutions. Approximate facsimiles of quarterly financial reports
   filed by an institution.

   FDIC/OTS Summary of Deposits
   Annual summary of deposit balances for over 85,000 branch offices
   operated by FDIC-insured institutions.

   Quarterly Banking Profiles
   Summary of financial results from all insured commercial banks and
   savings institutions -- analyses, graphs, and statistical tables.
   line separator Meet EDIE: Electronic Deposit Insurance Estimator!
   Electronic Deposit Insurance Estimator If you have more than $100,000
   deposited in one bank, EDIE can help you determine if you have adequate
   deposit insurance for your accounts.

   Statistics on Banking
   Quarterly publication of aggregate financial and structure information
   on FDIC-insured institutions; summary totals by state and charter type.

   Deposit Insurance Initiative
   FDIC's comprehensive proposal for pricing, funding, and coverage of
   deposit insurance.

   Consent Decree
   The Court has approved the settlement of the Conanan class action
   complaint.

   FDIC Law, Regulations,
   Related Acts
   law books and gavel Full text of current and historic materials.

   Reports of Changes to Financial Institutions and Offices
   Bimonthly report of non-financial activity of institutions supervised
   regulated by the FDIC.

   Federal Register Citations
   Daily official publication of the FDIC's Final Rules, Proposed Rules,
   Notices, and Statements of Policy.

   Please read FDIC's Privacy Policy Statement and General Disclaimer for
                               this Web site.
       The FDIC uses links to other sites in an effort to help locate
        interesting topics. The FDIC cannot attest to the accuracy of
     information provided by the sites. Linking to another site does not
                 mean a site or product endorsement by FDIC.
