http://edsitement.neh.gov/feature_January02.html

   [USEMAP:titlebar_new.gif]


   Promotional Poster for the 1932 Winter Olympic Games in Lake Placid,
   New York
   [spacer.gif]

         Part of the Work Projects Administration Poster Collection of the
          Library of Congress, this promotional poster for the 1932 Winter
        Olympic Games in Lake Placid, New York, is available online at the
                              EDSITEment-reviewed American Memory Project.

                                                                   Home
       Search
   Disclaimer



   This Months Feature


                         Remembering Olympic History

   "Citius, Altius, Fortius"

   --"Swifter, higher, stronger": motto of the modern Olympic Games

   The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, forced Olympic officials
   to rethink their preparations for the XIXth Winter Olympic Games,
   scheduled to begin this February in Salt Lake City, Utah. They have
   since put into place security measures that will be the most extensive,
   and most expensive, in Olympic history. When we consider the
   astonishing cost, complexity, and dangers of hosting the Olympic Games
   in 2002, the 1932 Olympic Games in Lake Placid, New York, seem a simple
   affair. The promotional poster, reproduced at left, looks almost
   quaint.

   But world events have always had a way of rudely intruding on Olympic
   ideals. Attendance levels at the 1932 Lake Placid Winter Games were
   about half of what they had been in 1928 because of a persistent
   worldwide Depression and the obstacles of what at the time was still a
   long and difficult transatlantic voyage. As is pointed out in "The
   Context of the Games and the Olympic Spirit," a feature written
   especially for students at the EDSITEment-reviewed Perseus Project,
   "the conflict between the Olympic movement's high ideals and the
   commercialism or political acts which accompany the Games has been
   noted since ancient times."

   All the elements of this conflict--athleticism, commercialism, and
   politics--are present in the moving story of Native American athlete
   Jim Thorpe, recounted on America's Story, a site designed especially
   for students and part of the EDSITEment-reviewed American Memory
   collection. By 1932 Thorpe was, like a great many other Americans
   during the Great Depression, short of money, and was almost unable to
   attend the Games of the Summer Olympiad, held in July of that year in
   Los Angeles. Twenty years previously, he had won the decathlon and
   pentathlon events at the Stockholm Olympic Games, but saw his gold
   medals stripped when a reporter revealed that he had played two years
   of semi-professional baseball. Although he went on to a remarkable
   double career in professional football and professional baseball,
   finally retiring in 1929 at age 41, Thorpe's gold medals were not
   restored until after his death. But at the Los Angeles Olympic Games he
   received a small measure of recognition and restitution for his
   achievements when, as he ascended the bleachers to the Presidential box
   where he had been invited to sit during the opening ceremonies, the
   assembled crowd of 105,000 gave him a standing ovation.

   The most controversial games of Olympic history were held four years
   later, in Berlin, Germany. You can view a richly documented exhibit on
   the Nazi Olympics at the EDSITEment-reviewed United States Holocaust
   Museum site. One of the most disturbing aspects of this exhibit is the
   evidence it presents that the 1936 Games were a public relations
   triumph for Hitler. German athletes won the most medals, and German
   "hospitality" was warmly praised by the European and American press,
   which bent over backwards to assure readers that the Games had brought
   Nazi Germany, as a New York Times reporter put it, "back in the fold of
   nations."

   All did not go Hitler's way in Berlin, however. The Holocaust Museum
   exhibit also presents material on African American sprinter Jesse
   Owens, who embarrassed his Aryan hosts with stunning victories in an
   unprecedented four events. And Owens' place in Olympic and American
   history is briefly treated in the EDSITEment lesson plan, I'm Gonna Sit
   Right Down and Write Someone A Letter.

   You can combine such resources on Owens and Thorpe with either of two
   additional EDSITEment lesson plans, Portrait of a Hero and What Makes a
   Hero?, both designed to help students analyze the meaning of heroism
   and to identify heroes in American history and in their own lives. Use
   Portrait of a Hero to teach kindergarten through second grade students
   about the meaning of heroism by observing details in pictures and
   listening to brief biographies of each figures. Designed for grades
   three through five, the lesson plan What Makes a Hero? introduces
   students to the lives and deeds of national, state and local heroes,
   and asks them to identify and analyze the qualities of historical
   figures they consider to be heroes.

   Your students can also compare the careers of Owens and Thorpe to those
   of heroes in the ancient Olympics. Athletes' Stories, a feature on the
   Perseus Project, provides examples of ancient athletes who, like their
   modern counterparts, "captured public imagination." As students
   consider some of the personal qualities of Jesse Owens recounted in
   press reports of the 1930s (examples are available in the American
   Memory collections), they can also read about the boxer Diagoras of
   Rhodes, praised by the poet Pindar as a "fair-fighter." Pindar speaks
   of Diagoras in terms that are echoed in press accounts of Owens'
   character: he is a man who "walks a straight course on a road that
   hates arrogance."

   EDSITEment Calendar Resources for January teaching topics

   Featured
   Lesson Plans

   What Makes a Hero?

   I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Someone a Letter

   Portrait of a Hero

   Featured EDSITEment Links

   American Memory
     * America's Story

   Perseus Project
     * Ancient Olympics

   United States Holocaust Museum
     * Nazi Olympics


   View previous features

   [space.gif]
