http://www.jobs.nih.gov/ORSofficers.htm

       Officer Badge Logo of NIH Logo of ORS DIVISION OF PUBLIC SAFETY


   The National Institutes of Health (NIH), the United States biomedical
   research agency, has a critical need to hire additional Police Officers
   in the wake of the September 11^th events.  Our 317-acre campus like
   environment employs over 20,000 employees.  The NIH is much like a
   small city with its own utilities, hospital, library, mail facilities
   and police and fire departments; there is even an on-site credit union
   and bank.

   The NIH currently has a number of Police Officer openings that offer
   competitive salaries and excellent benefits, not to mention a wide
   assortment of interesting and rewarding career opportunities.
   Assignments can be in any of the following support units; K-9, law
   enforcement, criminal investigation, bicycle patrol and/or parking and
   traffic control.

   DUTIES:  As an NIH Police Officer your primary responsibility will be
   to investigate, apprehend, or detect persons suspected or convicted of
   offenses against all applicable laws of the United States.  You will be
   charged with providing assistance to citizens in emergency situations
   and preparing testimony for presentation of cases in court.  NIH Police
   Officers are required to carry a firearm in the performance of their
   duties.

   QUALIFICATIONS:   NIH police applicants must be a U.S. citizen and have
   at least one year of experience that may have been acquired through
   regular, active services as a member of a federal, state, county,
   municipal, or local police force, or as a military police officer, or
   the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study required for
   a B.S. degree in Police Science, Criminal Justice or a comparable
   degree program from a resident school above the high school level.
   Unless waived due to previous completion of certified training,
   selected applicants must successfully complete Basic Police Training at
   the Federal Law Enforcement Training Academy, in Glynco, Georgia (which
   is paid for by NIH); and, meet the legal requirements to carry a
   firearm.  Applicants are subject to a complete criminal background
   investigation and must also have a valid state driver's license

   SALARY AND BENEFITS:  As a Federal employer, the NIH is able to offer
   an excellent benefits package for employees; for example, comprehensive
   health insurance, life insurance, a 401(k)-style tax-deferred
   retirement investment plan, 10 paid holidays per year; paid vacation
   and sick leave, and family-friendly leave programs.  Additional
   employment incentives may also be available.  NIH also provides an
   on-site fitness center, a Work and Family Life Support Center and
   Services (including Child Care and Elder Care Referral Services) and, a
   Recreation and Welfare Association (which offers a wide variety of
   services and discounts to members).  Retired Federal Police Officers
   may qualify for waiver of dual compensation regulations.

   At the present time we are recruiting for both permanent and temporary
     Police Officer positions. Click here to view a copy of the vacancy
    announcement pertaining to our permanent jobs. Click here to view the
   announcement for our temporary jobs.  We encourage you to apply to both
      announcements. Our temporary positions offer the opportunity for
     instant hire; some of our temporary hires have had the chance to be
       placed into permanent jobs.  Please be sure to read the entire
       announcement as it contains information regarding the mandatory
     application requirements.  To facilitate our ability to reach you,
    please include your e-mail address on your application. [ORSoff2.gif]
