http://www.hpcc.noaa.gov/highcomp.html


   HPCC Banner
   High-End Computing Banner

   Picture depicting super computers.

   Grey band used as a separator.

     Expediting improved weather and climate models...

     The high-end computing element of the HPCC program has focused on
     two key aspects of the problem:

    1. supporting acquisition of high-end research computing, and
    2. the software required to make the transition from vector to
       scalable highly parallel computers based on commodity processors.

     HPCC has provided support for National Weather Service (NWS)/
     National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) software
     development on multiprocessing systems from the beginning.
     Initially, NCEP relied on collaborations fostered with other
     agencies in the HPCC Program as they explored the capabilities of
     this new class of computers.

     More recently, HPCC has supported numerous post-docs working on
     innovative approaches to running NCEP software model codes on modern
     computers such as the Cray T3E at NASA Goddard, and the new SP2 at
     NCEP. This support to NCEP first resulted in a suite of benchmarks
     that was easily ported across all architectures, leading to a highly
     competitive procurement and outstanding value for the government. It
     also enabled the rapid porting of the NCEP software suite to the
     winning IBM SP2. Work continues to develop codes capable of taking
     full advantage of the 2000 processor SP2 due to be delivered to NCEP
     later this year.

     At the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL), HPCC has now
     supported two generations of new high-end computing (the Cray
     T-90/T3E procurement in 1995, and the current replacement
     acquisition), without which GFDL would have had substantially less
     capability to perform its mission in computational atmospheric and
     climate sciences. In addition, HPCC has supported personnel at GFDL
     with expertise in programming highly parallel systems, making
     possible the modern versions of the modular ocean model (MOM 4), and
     the new flexible modeling system (FMS). Future work will emphasize
     component-oriented programming for rapid, flexible exploration of
     new modeling insights.

     HPCC has supported the development of the scalable modeling system
     (SMS) at the Forecast Systems Laboratory (FSL) over the last seveal
     years. SMS is a software approach to exploit the parallelism
     inherent in problems in geophysical dynamics. HPCC also supported
     the recent procurement of a highly parallel system for FSL that has
     provided them with a platform to further explore the possibilities
     of parallel computing and the power to develop and run limited
     domain cloud resolving models at resolutions of 3 km or less.


                             Technical Approach

     * Support advanced computing at the NOAA research laboratories
     * Develop software tools to optimize the use of modern scalable
       computing for NOAA problems
     * Infuse new knowledge through new talent (post-docs and contracts)


                               Recent Results

     * NCEP high resolution global model operational on SP2
     * FSL acquired advanced HPTi- Compaq Alpha Linux system

                                 What's Next

     * Acquire follow-on to 5-year old GFDL Cray T-90
     * Begin testing 10km Quasi non-hydrostatic model

                                  Customers

     * NCEP
     * GFDL and FSL

                                              Collaborators

                   * NASA
                   * NRL
                   * NERSC
                   * IBM, HPTi, Cray

   spacer

   line
   HPCC Home Button
   line
   High Performance Computing Centers Button
   line
     * Forecast Systems Laboratory
       Boulder, CO
     * Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
       Princeton, NJ
     * National Centers for Environmental Prediction
       Camp Springs, MD

   line
   Links Button
   line
     * Scalable Modeling System (SMS)- documentation and software tools.
     * The GFDL Modular Ocean Model (MOM) - manual and software.
     * GFDL Scientific Visualization Guide
     * GFDL Gallery - examples of advanced visualizations.

                            Visualization Sample

                                   spacer

                                    line

                      NOAA Office of High Performance
                      Computing and Communications
                      1315 East-West Highway, Rm. 9626
                      Silver Spring, MD. 20910
                      Last Modified: 4/23/01
