http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/symposium/philspaper.pdf

   J5.6 TECHNICAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE INSTALLATION AND USE OF D3D IN AN
   AWIPS ENVIRONMENT Philip A. McDonald* , Paula T. McCaslin, Edward J.
   Szoke* and U. Herbert Grote NOAA Research-Forecast Systems Laboratory,
   Boulder, Colorado *[In collaboration with the Cooperative Institute for
   Research in the Atmosphere (CIRA), Colorado State University, Fort
   Collins, Colorado] 1. INTRODUCTION 2.2 Memory For several years, the
   NOAA Forecast Systems Lab- Although D3D has been implemented on systems
   oratory (FSL) has been developing an application for the with as little
   as 128 MB of memory, 256 MB is the recom- 3-D display of meteorological
   model data (McCaslin et al. mended minimum. Too little memory can
   drastically 1999 and 2000 and Szoke et al. 2001). The result of this
   degrade D3D's performance, while, on the other hand, work has been
   Display-Three Dimensions (D3D), a 3-D there is no such thing as too
   much memory. display counterpart to the Advanced Weather Interactive
   Processing System (AWIPS) 2-D display application Dis- 2.3 Graphics
   Adapter play-Two Dimensions (D2D). Although the core of D3D is Vis5D, a
   general purpose 3-D meteorological display Hardware rendering, which
   utilizes the capabilities application developed at the University of
   Wisconsin of a graphics adapter to their fullest extent, may require
   (Hibbard and Santek 1991), the intent has always been special device
   drivers, X servers, or even modified ver- that D3D would be used in an
   AWIPS environment, or at sions of the operating system. Although the
   accelerated least with an AWIPS data source. performance of hardware
   rendering is desirable, these Until very recently, the computational
   and graphics complications make it difficult for FSL to evaluate,
   imple- requirements of a 3-D display application exceeded the ment,
   document, and support it. Consequently, at this capabilities of typical
   AWIPS workstations. However, time, D3D utilizes software rendering,
   that relies on the with the increasing performance of Linux personal
   com- CPU to perform all of the rendering tasks. Software ren- puter
   (PC) workstations and their decreasing cost, cou- dering is generally
   noticeably slower than hardware ren- pled with a movement toward Linux
   AWIPS systems, the dering. However, in this era of ever-increasing CPU
   day of D3D in the forecast office is at hand. speeds, the slowness of
   software rendering becomes Since D3D is a new and relatively unknown
   applica- less noticeable. Since D3D is not tied to any specific tion,
   it is understandable that potential D3D users, as graphics adapter or
   adapter type, D3D works equally well as system administrators, may have
   concerns about well with practically any graphics adapter. the
   ramifications of running D3D on their systems. This 2.4 Operating
   System discussion will address these concerns, without getting into the
   detail that one would find in an installation man- Currently, Red Hat
   Linux versions 6.2 through 7.1 ual. are supported. Although the intent
   is to support as many versions of Red Hat Linux as possible, the D3D 2.
   SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS development staff cannot support them all forever.
   Con- sequently, as newer versions of Red Hat Linux are D3D development
   began on Hewlett-Packard sys- released, older versions may lose D3D
   support. tems running the HP-UX 10.x operating system. How- 2.5 Other
   Software ever, since early 2000, all D3D development has targeted
   Intel-based Linux PCs. Although D3D is distributed in as complete a
   form as 2.1 Platform possible, it does require some additional software
   to be available on the workstation. Most notable of these are An
   Intel-based PC system with a central processor the Tool Command
   Language/Tool Kit (Tcl/tk) and the C unit (CPU) speed of at least 500
   MHz is recommended. and C++ standard libraries. However, since these
   are Three-dimensional displays are computationally inten- generally
   distributed and installed with Linux, requiring sive, so users are
   advised to acquire the fastest system their presence poses no
   additional burden on the work- available. Since D3D makes no explicit
   use of multiple station. processors, these are optional. However, the
   operating 2.6 Data system may take advantage of multiple processors and
   this may, in turn, improve D3D's performance. D3D does not require D2D.
   However, D3D does need an AWIPS data tree and localization data for
   access to the model grids it displays. If D3D is running on a
   workstation that is networked to an AWIPS data Corresponding author
   address: Phil McDonald, 325 Broadway R/FS4, server, these data can be
   made available to D3D by sim- Boulder, CO 80305-3328. Email:
   mcdonald@fsl.noaa.gov ply cross-mounting the data directories on the
   server to the workstation. If the D3D workstation has no access to
   server does D3D engage in any network activity, and an AWIPS data
   server, then some other arrangement then only to acquire the data
   requested by the user. must be made to provide the data. Usually this
   means D3D requires no notifications of any kind, nor does it copying
   the desired AWIPS data and localization data to broadcast messages of
   any kind. Although D3D user the D3D workstation. files, such as images
   and procedural bundles, may be written to the D3D workstation's disks,
   no files are writ- 3. SYSTEM RESOURCE USAGE ten the data server. D3D
   has been designed to be as unobtrusive as 4. INSTALLATION AND
   CONFIGURATION possible, but it will, of course, use system resources.
   Initially, D3D should be installed from the distribution 3.1 Processor
   compact disk (CD). Requests for this CD can be made through the D3D
   release web page (http:// Since, on single processor systems, all
   applications d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/release). This CD contains everything
   have to share the same CPU, adding one more applica- necessary to
   assess D3D: the application, documenta- tion (D3D in this case) will
   impact the performance of all tion, AWIPS localization data, and case
   data (from 3-4 the others. This may not be the case on a system with
   May 1999). Running D3D from this CD is a simple and multiple processors
   if D3D can be assigned to a proces- unobtrusive way for users to assess
   D3D and to become sor that is not in use. However, such an assignment
   familiar with its use. However, using D3D in this way would be a
   capability of the operating system, not D3D. does not allow it to be
   used with real-time data or with 3.2 Memory additional data cases. For
   these capabilities, D3D needs to be installed on the workstation. The
   default memory limit that D3D will use is 200 4.1 Installation MB. This
   is only the ceiling on the amount of memory that D3D will try to
   allocate, not the amount that it will try The installation of D3D is
   accomplished by simply to allocate outright. If the amount of system's
   free mem- copying D3D from the distribution CD to the desired ory is
   less than 200 MB, then D3D's limit will be the directory on the
   workstation. It is not necessary to copy amount of system's free
   memory. Although a default the case data or the AWIPS localization
   data. limit of 200 MB has been found to be a comfortable one, Once D3D
   has been installed, upgrades may be it may be modified by users if a
   larger amount seems obtained through the D3D release web page.
   appropriate. If the amount of memory available to D3D is less 4.2
   Configuration than D3D needs, D3D will attempt to free up memory by
   destroying old or unused graphical objects. However, if After
   installation, the D3D main directory will contain these objects are
   needed again, D3D will need to regen- a localization directory. The
   localization directory con- erate them. This process of generating,
   destroying, and tains a file, d3denv, which specifies the values of the
   then regenerating objects can have a severe impact on environment
   variables that D3D uses. To configure D3D, D3D's performance.
   Therefore, it is advisable to allocate it is necessary to edit this
   file and provide appropriate an ample amount of memory. values for the
   path of the AWIPS localization data (FXA_HOME), the path of the
   real-time AWIPS data 3.3 Disk (FXA_DATA), and the AWIPS local and
   ingest sites (FXA_LOCAL_SITE and FXA_INGEST_SITE). If D3D The D3D
   application and all of its ancillary data will be used with case data,
   the path of the case data occupy about 20 MB of disk space. D3D
   documentation, also needs to be specified (FXA_CASE). including an
   online user's guide, occupy about 60 MB. In addition, D3D also needs
   access to the AWIPS localiza- tion data. If these data are not
   available, a minimal sub- 5. CASE DATA set (consisting primarily of a
   grid source table, topographic data and map data) must be installed.
   This D3D users may find it useful to archive 3-D model subset occupies
   about 20 MB. grids and then later select them for use as training aids
   During their use of D3D, users may save images or for review purposes.
   and procedural bundles. These files will, of course, occupy disk space.
   If activity logging is enabled, log files 5.1 Archiving will be
   created, taking up yet more disk space. Although it is difficult to
   precisely quantify the amount of disk To archive a data case, the user
   need only copy space used by these types of files, several megabytes
   the desired to the case data directory, usually on the should be
   allocated for these purposes. D3D workstation. However, it is important
   to save the entire path of the dataset and not just the dataset itself.
   3.4 Network The Linux tar command is particularly well suited to this
   purpose. Only when D3D is networked to a remote data For example,
   imagine that the date is 4 May 1999 and a user wants to archive the
   0000 UTC Eta run from Manager's Manual. that date. First, the desired
   file and its path are saved in Once this has been accomplished, D3D can
   be a tar file with a command similar to the following: modified to
   recognize the new model. This procedure is not difficult, but it
   involves editing several Tcl/tk and tar -cvf case.tar
   /data/fxa/Grid/SBN/netcdf/CONU ancillary files. Most users should be
   able to accomplish S211/Eta/19990504_0000 this task without much
   difficulty. For a detailed descrip- tion of this procedure, users
   should consult the D3D doc- Next, a directory for the case data needs
   to be created: umentation found on the distribution CD. First, the D3D
   Volume Browser menu files need to be edited to associ- mkdir
   /case/ok_tornadoes_04May1999 ate the new model with an appropriate
   display scale. Next, a model configuration file for the new model will
   Finally, the current directory is changed to the case need to be placed
   in the D3D localization data directory. directory and the case data is
   untarred: A D3D model configuration file contains descriptive infor-
   mation such as the model name, dimensions, vertical cd
   /case/ok_tornadoes_04May1999 levels, available fields, and domain
   mapping parameters. tar -xvf case.tar Generally, the model
   configuration file for the new model can be copied from that of another
   model with similar It should be noted that the AWIPS gridded datasets
   properties and then modified appropriately. can be rather large (~50 MB
   or more). While being archived, a dataset will be traveling across the
   network and may impact the network performance. Also, the 7. SUMMARY
   AND CONCLUSIONS archived datasets will consume space on the D3D work-
   D3D is an evolving technology. Throughout its station. development two
   things have been, and will continue to 5.2 Selection be, borne in mind.
   First, the application must provide a service to the user. To meet this
   end D3D needs to be If D3D has been configured for use with case data,
   not only useful and easy to use, but it must continue to a case data
   selector, similar to the one in Figure 1, will adapt to users' needs,
   either through the users' means appear when D3D is started. This
   selector allows the or through those of the D3D developers. Second, D3D
   user to set the data source to real-time data or any of the must in no
   significant way impede or interfere with any cases archived in the case
   data directory. aspect of any system on which it is installed. This
   must If D3D has been configured for use with real-time be especially
   true when D3D is installed in a forecast data only, the case data
   selector will not appear. office AWIPS environment. The D3D development
   team believes that D3D succeeds on both counts. 8. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
   Grateful thanks are extended to Nita Fullerton and Patrice Kucera of
   FSL for their reviews of this paper. 9. REFERENCES Hibbard, W. R. and
   D. Santek, 1991: The Vis5D sys- tem for easy interactive visualization.
   Seventh Interna- tional Conference on Interactive Information and
   Processing Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and Hydrology, New
   Orleans, LA, Amer. Meteor. Soc., Figure 1. D3D case data selector,
   shown at D3D startup. The 129-134. user has selected
   ok_tornadoes_04May1999 McCaslin, P. T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J.
   Szoke, 1999: Developing and testing a 3D visualization worksta- tion
   application at FSL. 15th International Conference on 6. ADDING A MODEL
   Interactive Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology,
   Oceanography, and Hydrology, Dallas, TX, When considering adding a
   local, or any other, Amer. Meteor. Soc., 498-501. model to those that
   D3D will display, it is extremely McCaslin, P. T., P. A. McDonald, and
   E. J. Szoke, important to bear in mind that D3D reads data from the
   2000: 3D Visualization development at NOAA Forecast AWIPS data tree and
   relies on the AWIPS localization Systems Laboratory. Computer Graphics,
   February 2000, Vol. 34 No. 1, 41-44. data for information about the
   data in that tree. There- Szoke, E. J., U. H. Grote, P. C. Kucera, P.
   T. McCas- fore, it is imperative that the new model be added to the
   lin, P. A. McDonald, and W. F. Roberts, 2001: D3D: A AWIPS data tree
   and localization data in accordance potential 3D visualization tool for
   the National Weather with AWIPS procedures set forth in the AWIPS
   System Service. 17th International Conference on Interactive
   Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and
   Hydrology, Albuquerque, NM, Amer. Meteor. Soc., 10-14.
