http://www.demint.house.gov/Evans_Visit.htm

         Working to Secure South Carolina's Future: The Textile Industry

                           [Evans_PressConf.jpg]
    Secretary Evans and Congressman DeMint holding a press conference at
                   Springs Industries, Inc. in Lyman, S.C.
  While touring Springs Industries, Inc., an Upstate textile plant,
   Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans said, "If there's any doubt in
   anybody's mind about whether America can compete - all they need to do
   is come to the Springs Industries plant right here.  They know they can
   compete as long as they have a level playing field - that's what we're
   going to fight for."

   DeMint Scores Victory for Textiles
   Congressman DeMint recently cast one of the deciding votes to give
   President Bush "fast-track" trade negotiating authority. This
   legislation, called Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), would allow
   President Bush to get a straight up or down vote in Congress on future
   trade agreements.  The key to the Congressman's vote was an agreement
   with the Administration and House leaders on a package of support for
   the textile industry. This package included assurances that the
   Administration would level the playing field with other countries by
   opening their market to American products, increase enforcement of our
   existing trade laws to prevent illegal textile imports, and provide
   economic support for ailing textile companies and their workers. DeMint
   said, "This was a vote to create not only more jobs, but better jobs
   for the working families of South Carolina."

                    [Evans_Visit_Springs_Industries.jpg]
      Secretary Evans, Plant Manager Mike Runion and Congressman DeMint
                   touring Springs Industries Lyman plant.
                                                                   [Evans_3.jpg]
   Dale Williams of Springs Industries, Congressman DeMint and Secretary
   Evans discussing international issues important to the textile
   industry.
