http://era.nih.gov/aboutera/glossary.cfm

   Back to eRA Home About eRA Newsletters Project Management Business
   Areas Tech Corner

   About eRA
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Where eRA Fits Into NIH
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] IMPAC II and Commons Modules
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] System Architecture
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Priorities
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Operating Principles
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Get Involved
   Reference Shelf
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Glossary
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Frequently Asked Questions
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Documents
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Meeting Minutes
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Site Index
   Key Links
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] NIH
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Commons
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] IMPAC II
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Federal Commons
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] Invention Reporting (iEdison)
   [yellow_arrow_right.gif] CRISP on the Web
   [vspacer.gif]

eRA Glossary of Terms

   Send additions (word/phrase with definition) and/or requests for a
   definition of word or phrase to Ask eRA at askera@od.nih.gov, entering
   "Glossary" on Subject line.

            1 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z


A

Back to top

Accessible

   Something that can be used by persons with disabilities. In the context
   of computing, this generally means that the software or device should
   be compatible with access aids, and should be able to transform itself
   into a needed format.

Activity Code

   A three-digit code identifying the type of award mechanism (e.g., RO1
   is a research project grant). Major series are: F-fellowship;
   K-research career; N-research contracts; P-research programs and
   centers; R-research projects; S-research-related programs; T-training;
   U-cooperative agreements, and Y-interagency agreements.

Advocate

   A member of the eRA Project Management Team who acts as liaison and
   facilitator for the Functional Group and User Group related to a
   module.

API

   Application Program Interface.

Artifact

   Work products of the methodology and process used for software
   development.

Assistive technology

   Assistive technology is adaptive equipment that people with
   disabilities commonly use for information and communication access. See
   36 CFR 1194.4. In many cases, the Access Board's technical provisions
   require compatibility with assistive technology devices. For example,
   if an agency is acquiring telecommunications products, the standards
   require that the EIT either contain a TTY or be compatible with TTYs.
   If the product doesn't provide TTY functionality, it must provide a
   standard non-acoustic connection point for TTYs. See 36 CFR Part
   1194.23.

ATRS

   Accounting Transaction Release System.

B

Back to top

BC4J

   Oracle Business Components for Java.

BMP

   Bean Managed Persistence. Data transfer between an entity bean's
   variables and a resource manager managed by the entity bean.

Bobby

   A free service provided by CAST to help Web page authors identify and
   repair significant barriers to access by individuals with disabilities.

C

Back to top

CAN

   Common Account Number.

CAST

   Center for Applied Special Technology. CAST is an educational,
   not-for-profit organization, founded in 1984, that uses technology to
   expand opportunities for all people, including those with disabilities.
   Developed Bobby service for evaluating Web pages for accessibility.

CD

   Compact Disc. A small optical disk usually containing recorded music or
   computer data.

CD-ROM

   Compact Disc-Read-Only Memory. A compact disc containing data that can
   be read by a computer.

CGAP

   Competitive Grant Application Process. An NIH Commons module that is
   the electronic version of the PHS 398 grant application. CGAP has been
   undergoing prototyping for users with datastream delivery capabilities:
   electronic data interchange (EDI) or hypertext markup language (HTML).

CGAP

   Competitive Grant Application Process. An NIH Commons module that is
   the electronic version of the PHS 398 grant application. CGAP has been
   undergoing prototyping for users with datastream delivery capabilities:
   electronic data interchange (EDI) or hypertext markup language (HTML).

Client-side

   Functionality that exists on the user's machine rather than handled by
   the server. For example, a client-side image map has the necessary code
   for the client machine to take action on the basis of the user's
   selection; with a server-side image map, it is necessary to send data
   to the server before an action can be taken.

CM

   Committee Management. A module providing data entry, query, and
   reporting capabilities for managing committees and subcommittees,
   including chartered advisory committees and review meetings. It enables
   committee management staff to establish, amend, and re-charter
   committees as well as manage information associated with them,
   including creating and printing the Federal Register Notice.

Commons

   NIH Commons (not to be confused with Federal Commons). A Web-based,
   client-server system that enables data exchange between the external
   research community and NIH. Only registered organizations can access
   the working modules.

Container

   Container or EJB Container. A container that implements the EJB
   component contract of the J2EE architecture. This contract specifies a
   runtime environment for enterprise beans that includes security,
   concurrency, life cycle management, transaction, deployment, naming,
   and other services. The EJB or J2EE server provides an EJB container.

Cookie

   A file automatically uploaded to a website's visitor's hard drive to
   allow monitoring of progress through a site. Commons uses cookies to
   ensure security and collect information that will lead to improvements.
   See the Commons privacy statement.

CRISP

   Computer Retrieval of Information on Scientific Projects. A publicly
   accessible database of federally funded biomedical research projects.
   CRISP enables users to research scientific concepts and identify
   projects and investigators from a database of awards funded since 1972.
   Web address: https://www-commons.cit.nih.gov/crisp.

CRISP Plus

   A relational database available through IMPAC II that allows NIH staff
   to perform keyword searches of grant titles, abstracts, and application
   summary statements. It houses sensitive information (e.g., dollar
   amounts and information on unfunded grants) not available in the
   external version of CRISP.

CSR

   Center for Scientific Review. An NIH center that conducts initial peer
   review of most investigator-initiated NIH applications for research
   grants and fellowships. CSR also receives Public Health Service
   research and research training applications and refers them to PHS
   components for possible funding.

CWG

   Commons Working Group.

D

Back to top

Database

   A usually large collection of data organized especially for rapid
   search and retrieval (as by a computer).

DHHS

   Department of Health and Human Services. NIH is a part of DHHS.

E

Back to top

e-SNAP

   Electronic Streamlined Non-Competing Award Process. A Commons module
   that allows PIs to prepare and administrative officials from grantee
   organizations to electronically approve and submit information
   consistent with an Application for Continuation of a Public Health
   Service Grant (PHS Form 2590). In the future, CNAP (Complex
   Non-Competing Award Process) will be available.

ECB

   Electronic Council Book. An IMPAC II application that houses summary
   statements, percentiles, priority scores, IRGs, and key identifying
   information for applications going to council for second-level review.
   Council members and NIH staff use separate versions.

Edison

   Interagency Edison. U.S. Government's Internet center for reporting
   inventions developed with government funding. Web address:
   http://www.iedison.gov/

EIT

   Electronic and Information Technology. Information technology (IT), as
   defined at FAR 2.101, and any equipment or interconnected system or
   subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion, or
   duplication of data or information. In addition to IT, EIT includes:
   * telecommunication products, such as telephones
   * information kiosks
   * transaction machines
   * World Wide Web sites
   * multimedia (including videotapes)
   * office equipment, such as copiers and fax machines
   EIT is defined by the Access Board at 36 CFR 1194.4 and in the FAR at
   2.101.

EJB

   Enterprise Java Beans. A component architecture for the development and
   deployment of object-oriented, distributed, enterprise-level
   applications. Applications written using the Enterprise JavaBeans
   architecture are scalable, transactional, and secure.

EJB Container

   A container that implements the EJB component contract of the J2EE
   architecture. This contract specifies a runtime environment for
   enterprise beans that includes security, concurrency, life cycle
   management, transaction, deployment, naming, and other services. An EJB
   or J2EE server provides an EJB container.

EPMC

   Extramural Program Management Committee. An NIH committee composed of
   heads of IC extramural administrative divisions that helps define
   extramural policy.

eRA

   Electronic Research Administration. The NIH initiative to move from
   paper to a fully electronic research administration environment. eRA
   sets up an electronic dialogue between NIH and its grantees covering
   the entire life cycle of the grant. eRA integrates IMPAC II and the NIH
   Commons.

Extramural Program Management Committee

   An NIH committee composed of heads of IC extramural administrative
   divisions that helps define extramural policy.

F

Back to top

FDP

   Federal Demonstration Project. A cooperative effort among 11 federal
   research agencies and 65 universities and non-profit research centers
   piloting new eRA systems to increase productivity by reducing the
   administrative burden on investigators, while maintaining effective
   stewardship of federal funds.

Federal Commons

   A joint effort of federal agencies including NIH that creates a common
   face of government to the research community for pre- and post-award
   electronic research administration. NIH Commons has been designed to
   mesh smoothly with the Federal Commons.

Federal Demonstration Project

   A cooperative effort among 11 federal research agencies and 65
   universities and non-profit research centers piloting new eRA systems
   to increase productivity by reducing the administrative burden on
   investigators, while maintaining effective stewardship of federal
   funds.

FOIA

   Freedom of Information Act.

FOT

   Field of Training.

Functional Group

   An advisory group to eRA comprising members of an NIH functional group
   committee that corresponds to an eRA module (e.g., the NIH Grants
   Management Advisory Committee and the GM module).

G

Back to top

GCS

   Grant Closeout System.

GM

   Grants Management. An IMPAC II module that allows NIH grants management
   staff to process and manage grant-related information, including
   assignments, work-ups, sign-offs, and notices of grant awards.

GMAC

   Grants Management Advisory Committee. A committee that advises the EPMC
   on matters relating to grants administration.

GMO

   Grants Management Officer. The NIH official who is responsible for the
   business management of grants and cooperative agreements, including
   ensuring that both the granting agency and grantees meet all
   requirements of laws, regulations and policies.

GMS

   Grants Management Specialist. An NIH staff member who is the focal
   point for all business activities associated with the negotiation,
   award, and administration of a grant or cooperative agreement. He or
   she also interprets grant administration policy and provisions.

Grant Update Module

   A component of the GM, ICO, and REV modules that permits authorized
   users to make data changes in several dozen fields.

Grantee

   An institution that receives a grant or cooperative agreement and
   assumes legal, financial, and scientific responsibility and
   accountability for the funds and performance of the activity. In
   certain cases, a grantee may be an individual.

Grants Management

   An IMPAC II module that allows NIH grants management staff to process
   and manage grant-related information, including assignments, work-ups,
   sign-offs, and notices of grant awards.

Grants Management Advisory Committee

   A committee that advises the EPMC on matters relating to grants
   administration. Known as GMAC.

Grants Management Officer

   The NIH official who is responsible for the business management of
   grants and cooperative agreements, including ensuring that both the
   granting agency and grantees meet all requirements of laws, regulations
   and policies.

Grants Management Specialist

   An NIH staff member who is the focal point for all business activities
   associated with the negotiation, award, and administration of a grant
   or cooperative agreement. He or she also interprets grant
   administration policy and provisions.

Grants Technical Assistant

   A staff member who assists SRAs in peer review-related work.

Group Advocate

   See Advocate.

GTA

   Grants Technical Assistant. A staff member who assists SRAs in peer
   review-related work.

GUM

   Grant Update Module. A component of the GM, ICO, and REV modules that
   permits authorized users to make data changes in several dozen fields.

H

Back to top

HTML

   Hypertext Markup Language. A text-based markup language for hypertext
   documents on the Internet. HTML enables the embedding of images,
   sounds, video streams, form fields, references to other objects with
   URLs and basic text formatting.

I

Back to top

i-Edison

   Interagency Edison. U.S. Government's Internet center for reporting
   inventions developed with government funding. Web address:
   http://www.iedison.gov/

IAEGC

   Inter-Agency Electronic Grants Committee. A group that facilitates the
   effective use of e-commerce for the federal grants community. One of
   its committees is the Federal Commons Committee.

IC

   Institutes and Centers. The 25 institutes and centers that comprise the
   National Institutes of Health (NIH).

ICE

   Institutes and Centers Extensions.

ICO

   Institute and Center Operations. An IMPAC II module that provides
   administrative functions required by program officers, including
   viewing application and program class code assignments, managing a
   portfolio (e.g., ability to set payment codes and sign off on awards),
   and updating basic grant information such as title, PI, and budget
   data. ICO permits budget officers to indicate grants to be paid and
   council administrators to add council actions to the database.

ICSTORe

   Search, Track Order, Report. IMPAC II mechanism for tracking and
   distributing Summary Statements, abstracts, applications, NGA's and
   other electronic documents.

IDE

   Integrated Development Environment.

IIOP

   Internet Inter-ORB Protocol. A protocol used for communication between
   CORBA object request brokers.

IMPAC

   Information for Management, Planning, Analysis, and Coordination (also
   known as IMPAC I). A 1960's era legacy system for application and award
   data that is being phased out and replaced by IMPAC II by the end of FY
   2002. Many functions and data sets have already migrated to IMPAC II.

IMPAC II

   NIH's extensive internal information management system for application
   and award data.

Institute and Center Operations

   An IMPAC II module that provides administrative functions required by
   program officers, including viewing application and program class code
   assignments, managing a portfolio (e.g., ability to set payment codes
   and sign off on awards), and updating basic grant information such as
   title, PI, and budget data. ICO permits budget officers to indicate
   grants to be paid and council administrators to add council actions to
   the database.

IQR

   IC Query and Reporting. An IMPAC II module that is a high-end reporting
   tool for accessing IRDB.

IRDB

   IMPAC II Reporting Database. A simplified database designed for speedy,
   simplified querying and reporting. IRDB loads data from the Online
   Transaction Processing database.

IT Shared Design Group

   A group of IC representatives, chaired by CIT, that develops shared
   designs of NIH information systems to reduce costs and enhance results
   by pooling knowledge and conducting joint projects.

J

Back to top

J2EE

   Java 2, Enterprise Edition. Object-oriented architecture that is the
   platform for IMPAC II.

JAD

   Joint Application Development. A working session, attended by users,
   analysts, and technical developers, used for requirements definition
   and prototype evaluation.

Java

   A programming language that is designed to be platform-independent.
   This is achieved by the use of "virtual machines" that allow Java
   programs to run on a particular operating system. One of the common
   uses of Java is to create Applets that run inside a Web page.

JDBCTM

   An API for database-independent connectivity between the J2EE platform
   and a wide range of data sources.

JPEG

   Joint Photographic Experts Group. A type of image commonly used on the
   Web. This format is especially suitable for photographs.

JRE

   Java Runtime Environment.

JSP

   JavaServer Pages. An extensible Web technology that uses template data,
   custom elements, scripting languages, and server-side Java objects to
   return dynamic content to a client. Typically the template data is HTML
   or XML elements, and in many cases the client is a Web browser.

JVM

   Java Virtual Machine.

K

Back to top

L

Back to top

M

Back to top

Materialized Views

   Oracle objects that are used to create, maintain, and use summary
   tables.

N

Back to top

NBR

   New Budgeted Requirement. eRA prioritization term for a planned,
   budgeted requirement.

NCURA

   National Council of University Research Administrators. An organization
   of individuals involved in the administration of sponsored programs at
   colleges, universities and teaching hospitals.

NFR

   New Funded Requirement. eRA prioritization term for a new requirement
   that is financed.

NIH

   National Institutes of Health comprising 27 institutes and centers.

NR

   New Requirement. eRA prioritization term for a new requirement with no
   budget.

O

Back to top

OBR

   Original Budgeted Requirement. eRA prioritization term for an original
   requirement budgeted for and to be added in the release of software
   upgrades when the money becomes available.

OER

   Office of Extramural Research.

OFM

   Office of Financial Management.

OFR

   Original Funded Requirement. eRA prioritization term for an original
   requirement that has been funded and will be added in the schedule for
   release of software upgrades.

OIR

   Office of Intramural Research.

OLTP

   Online Transaction Processing. A database containing all incoming data
   in a sophisticated Oracle relational database that reduces the
   processing burden.

OPERA

   Office of Policy for Extramural Research Administration.

Oracle

   Relational database developed by Oracle Corporation.

P

Back to top

Payline

   A percentile-based funding cutoff point determined at the beginning of
   the fiscal year by balancing the projected number of applications
   coming to an NIH Institute with the amount of funds available.

PDF

   Portable Document Format. Format for publishing documents in a
   universal electronic format that matches their paper versions,
   developed by Adobe Systems.

PI

   Principal Investigator. A qualified person designated by the applicant
   institution to direct the research and be responsible for the proper
   conduct of the project or program of a grant.
