http://www.fedcir.gov/pdf/form17.pdf

   Form 17. Application for Admission to the Bar United States Court of
   Appeals for the Federal Circuit APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO THE BAR I
   (print name), 7 whose mailing address is: StreeVP.0. Box
   City/State/Zip/Phone do hereby apply for admission to the bar of the
   United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. My personal
   statement showing my eligibility for membership is as follows: I am
   admitted to practice before the highest court of these states (attach
   extra page if necessary): State Court/Date of Admission I am admitted
   to practice before these federal courts (attach extra page if
   necessary): Federal Court/Date of Admission I certify that I am not
   presently subject to discipline by another court. I will inform this
   court within 30 days of any disciplinary action taken against me by any
   court and will furnish the court with copies of relevant court orders
   and I will inform the court if any bar application is denied. Signature
   of Applicant MOTION OF SPONSOR (The motion of a sponsoring member of
   the bar is not required if the applicant attaches a certificate of good
   standing as described in Fed. Cir. R. 46(b).) I (print name), , a
   member of the bar of this court, do hereby move the admission of the
   above attorney. Date: Signature of sponsor: OATH OF ADMISSION (Execute
   the oath unless arrangements have been made to have the oath
   administered in open court.) I, , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
   will comport myself as an attorney and counselor of this court,
   uprightly and in accordance with the law, and that I will support the
   Constitution of the United States. Signature of Applicant Subscribed
   and sworn to before me on this date: My commission expires on this
   date: Signature of Notary: [Seal] Form 17. (continued) INSTRUCTIONS FOR
   APPLYING FOR ADMISSION TO THE BAR OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
   FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT Fill out the application on the reverse side.
   Print your name clearly on the first line. Your name as printed will be
   the name that appears on the court's attorney roster and on the
   certificate of admission. You may submit a completed admission form
   accompanied by a certificate of good standing from one of the courts
   enumerated in Fed. R. App. P. 46(a) or Fed. Cir. R. 46(a) (the
   certificate must be dated within 30 days of the motion for admission
   and must bear the seal of the issuing court) or you may submit a
   completed admission form and have a member of the bar move for your
   admission in the space provided on the form. Fed. Cir. R. 46(b) sets
   forth the admissions procedures fully. The prescribed fee for admission
   is $25. The application must include a check in that amount payable to
   the clerk. The application and check should be sent to: Clerk, US.
   Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, 717 Madison Place, NW,
   Washington, DC 20439. FOR CLERK'S USE ONLY Fee Paid: Yes no Date Paid:
   Admitted On: Signature of Clerk or Deputy Clerk
