http://bphc.hrsa.gov/programs/MovementFactSheet.htm

             Moving Toward 100% Access and 0 Health Disparities

      MISSION | ACTIVITIES | ACCOMPLISHMENTS | COLLABORATIVE LINKAGES |
                   FUTURE CHALLENGES | INFORMATION CONTACT

   The Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC) initiated the Movement Toward
   100% Access and 0 Health Disparities in late 1998. The Movement
   organizes key groups and helps communities meet their health
   improvement needs through partnerships involving safety-net providers,
   businesses and community groups. The philosophy behind the 100%/0
   Movement is that progress can be made toward increasing access to
   health care and eliminating disparities by re-engineering and
   restructuring community assets already in place. It is expected that an
   integrated, primary care-based health system will emerge when a
   community declares its desired outcomes, engages its key partners, and
   aligns its assets. The result will be healthier communities across the
   country.

   MISSION

   The mission is to enroll and support community leaders in setting and
   achieving measurable, clear goals for moving toward 100% access to
   health care and eliminating disparities based on race, ethnicity,
   gender, age, sexual preference, or income.

   ACTIVITIES
     * 100%/0 activities cut across virtually all of BPHC’s programs as
       well as the programs of many partners inside and outside of
       government who are part of this community-by-community movement to
       reform health care from the “bottom up.” BPHC activities include:
     * Enrolling and supporting a network of government and non-government
       partners that in turn use their networks, programs and memberships
       to create and support leadership teams. Communities across the
       country set and achieve ambitious goals for moving toward 100%
       access and elimination of targeted disparities.
     * Encouraging health centers, National Health Service Corps
       clinicians and alumni, clinical quality leaders and others in
       BPHC-supported programs and sites to take on and succeed in
       expanded community-wide leadership roles.
     * Collaborating with organizations to convene community leadership
       teams to learn and collaborate to further progress towards specific
       health goals in these communities.
     * Maintaining and expanding a database of communities in action and
       their leadership teams.
     * Conducting a “Learning Series” to help BPHC staff and program
       leaders better understand how communities and organizations are
       succeeding in their efforts to transform their health care systems
       and move toward 100% Access and 0 Health Disparities.
     * Providing electronic, print, and other media materials aimed at
       assisting community leadership teams in making and celebrating
       achievement of their goals.
     * Providing awards and recognition for community progress and 100%/0
       results.

   ACCOMPLISHMENTS

   There are approximately over 500 community leadership teams in the
   Movement. We achieved the goal to work with 500 teams by the end of the
   year 2001. Many of the communities enrolled in the Movement have
   already achieved significant results and are providing thousands of
   additional underserved people with access to health care.
   Because of the 100%/0 Movement, an additional $50 to $100 million in
   increased resources has been added for safety net programs and services
   for underserved populations.
   In August 2000, the Movement for 100%/0 won the prestigious “Business
   Solutions in the Public Interest” award sponsored by the Federal Office
   of Procurement Policy, the Council for Excellence in Government, VISA,
   USBank, Fedbid.com and Government Executive magazine.

   COLLABORATIVE LINKAGES

   To achieve the ambitious goals of moving toward 100% Access and 0
   Health Disparities, we collaborate with a wide range of partners
   including: State health organizations, local and national foundations,
   other federal agencies, non-profit organizations, medical societies,
   and representatives from the private sector and business communities.

   FUTURE CHALLENGES

   Communities, networks of health care organizations, single health care
   organizations, health care providers and local leaders in other arenas
   have demonstrated that 100% Access and 0 Health Disparities is
   achievable.  Benchmarks prove that these tremendous goals are truly
   possible. The challenge for BPHC, 100%/0 partners and committed people
   throughout the nation is to take the proven approaches and replicate or
   adapt them in every community across the nation until we reach 100%
   Access to Health Care and 0 Health Disparities.

   FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

   The Center for Communities in Action
   Bureau of Primary Health Care
   4350 East-West Highway
   Bethesda, MD 20814
   301-594-3802
   301-594-4987 FAX

                                [redline.gif]

                             Go to BPHC Programs
                          Return to BPHC Home Page
                           Go to HHS | Go to HRSA

                                [redline.gif]

                          mailed.gif (26371 bytes)

                              feedback@hrsa.gov
                           Questions or comments?
