http://bxatac.doc.gov/RECRUIT6.htm

                         U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                       BUREAU OF EXPORT ADMINISTRATION

                        TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEES

               Notice of Recruitment of Private-Sector Members

   SUMMARY: Six Technical Advisory Committees (TACs) advise the Department
   of Commerce on the technical parameters for export controls applicable
   to dual-use commodities and technology and on the administration of
   those controls. The TACs are composed of representatives from industry
   and Government representing diverse points of view on the concerns of
   the exporting community. Industry representatives are selected from
   firms producing a broad range of goods, technologies, and software
   presently controlled for national security, non-proliferation, foreign
   policy, and short supply reasons or that are proposed for such
   controls, balanced to the extent possible among large and small firms.

   TAC members are appointed by the Secretary of Commerce and serve terms
   of not more than four consecutive years. The membership reflects the
   Department's commitment to attaining balance and diversity. TAC members
   must obtain secret-level clearances prior to appointment. These
   clearances are necessary so that members can be permitted access to the
   classified information needed to formulate recommendations to the
   Department of Commerce. Each TAC meets approximately 4 times per year.
   Members of the Committees will not be compensated for their services.

   The six TACs are responsible for advising the Department of Commerce on
   the technical parameters for export controls and theadministration of
   those controls within the following areas: Information Systems TAC:
   Control List Categories 3 (electronics - semiconductor section), 4
   (computers), and 5 (telecommunications and information security);
   Materials TAC: Control List Category 1 (materials, chemicals,
   microorganisms, and toxins); Materials Processing Equipment TAC:
   Control List Category 2 (materials processing); Regulations and
   Procedures TAC: the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and
   procedures for implementing the EAR; Sensors and Instrumentation TAC:
   Control List Categories 3 (electronics - instrumentation section) and 6
   (sensors and lasers); Transportation and Related Equipment TAC: Control
   List Categories 7 (navigation and avionics), 8 (marine technology), and
   9 (propulsion systems, space vehicles, and related equipment).

   To respond to this recruitment notice, please send a copy of your
   resume. Please use the fax number or e-mail address below.

   DEADLINE: This Notice of Recruitment will be open for one year from its
   date of publication in the Federal Register.

   FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Lee Ann Carpenter on (202) 482-2583.
   Resumes may be faxed to her at (202) 482-3195 or e-mailed to her at
   LCarpent@bxa.doc.gov
