http://www.chp.ca.gov/html/anthrax.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                         California Highway Patrol
                         Commissioner's Welcome
                         Q & A
                         Publications
                         What We Do
                         Offices
                         News and Public Notices
                         History
                         Careers
                         Traffic Incidents
                         Related Sites
                         Site Map

                           * Forms

                           * Brochures

                           * Campaigns

                           * Perspectives 1998

                           * 24 Hours With The CHP

                           * Public Contact

                           * SWITRS 1999 Report

                           * SWITRS 1998 Report

                           * SWITRS 1997 Report

                           * Fatalities 0 - 4 Years



   CHP motto - 'Safety and Service'



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   ANTHRAX: What You Should Know


                    (Para leer en Español, oprima aqui)

                          CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL

                                   ANTHRAX

                            What you should know

                                  CHP logo

   With the rising concern about its possible use as a terrorist weapon,
   anthrax (bacillus anthracis) has become a household name. Many of the
   reports of anthrax are hoaxes and play upon the fear people have of the
   unknown. The following are commonly asked questions:

   What is anthrax?

   Anthrax is an acute infectious disease caused by the spore-forming
   bacterium. Anthrax most commonly occurs in wild and domestic lower
   vertebrates (cattle, sheep, goats, camels, antelopes, and other
   herbivores), but it can also occur in humans when they are exposed to
   infected animals or tissue from infected animals.

   How common is anthrax and who can get it?

   Anthrax is very rare in North America. In fact, there was only one case
   reported in the United States in the year 2000, and before that the
   last known case was in 1992. Anthrax is most common in agricultural
   regions where it occurs in animals as well as in dirt. These include
   South and Central America, Southern and Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa,
   the Caribbean, and the Middle East. When anthrax affects humans, it is
   usually due to an occupational exposure to infected animals or their
   products. Workers who are exposed to dead animals and animal products
   from other countries where anthrax is more common may become infected
   with anthrax. Anthrax in wild livestock has occurred in the United
   States.

   How is anthrax transmitted?

   Anthrax infection can occur in three forms: cutaneous (skin),
   inhalation, and gastrointestinal (ingestion). Anthrax spores can live
   in the soil for many years, and humans can become infected with anthrax
   by handling products from infected animals or by inhaling anthrax
   spores from contaminated animal products. Anthrax can also be spread by
   eating undercooked meat from infected animals. It is rare to find
   infected animals in the United States.

   What is the preferred delivery method for terrorists?

   As mentioned above, anthrax is most effective when it is inhaled. To
   even get it into the air is often the failing point for most terrorist
   groups. The spores must be captured in some other device that can be
   used to get them airborne. Additionally, the spores must be a precise
   size and shape (3-5 microns) to enter the lungs. Some common dispensers
   include aerosol cans, pressurized pipes and canisters, light as air
   powders and explosive devices. Once airborne, the spores must be aloft
   for enough time to be inhaled by the thousands before they can cause
   harm.

   What are the symptoms of anthrax?

   Symptoms of disease vary depending on how the disease was contracted,
   but symptoms usually occur within 7 days and may take as long as 50
   days.
     * Cutaneous: Most (about 95%) anthrax infections occur when the
       bacterium enters a cut or abrasion on the skin, such as when
       handling contaminated wool, hides, leather, or hair products
       (especially goat hair) of infected animals. Two-thirds of these
       cases occur when the disease comes in contact with an open sore on
       the face. Skin infection begins as a raised itchy bump that
       resembles an insect bite, but within 1-2 days develops into a
       vesicle and then a painless ulcer, usually 1-3 cm in diameter, with
       a characteristic black necrotic (dying) area in the center. Lymph
       glands in the adjacent area may swell. About 20% of untreated cases
       of cutaneous anthrax may result in death. Most strains of anthrax
       are killed by several different antibiotics which can be prescribed
       by a licensed physician. Deaths are rare with the appropriate
       antimicrobial therapy.
     * Inhalation: Initial symptoms may resemble a common cold. After
       several days, the symptoms may progress to sever breathing problems
       and shock. Inhalation of anthrax is usually fatal.
     * Intestinal: The intestinal disease form of anthrax may follow the
       consumption of contaminated meat and is characterized by an acute
       inflammation of the intestinal tract. Initial signs of nausea, loss
       of appetite, vomiting, and fever are followed by abdominal pain,
       vomiting of blood, and severe diarrhea. Intestinal anthrax results
       in death in 25% to 60% of cases.

   Where is anthrax usually found?

   Anthrax can be found globally. It is more common in developing
   countries or countries without veterinary public health programs.
   Certain regions of the world (South and Central America, Southern and
   Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, and the Middle East)
   report more anthrax in animals than other regions.

   Can anthrax be spread from person-to-person?

   Direct person-to-person spread of anthrax is extremely unlikely to
   occur. Communicability is not a concern in managing or visiting with
   patients with inhalation anthrax.

   Is there a way to prevent infection?

   In countries where anthrax is common and vaccination levels of animal
   herds are low, humans should avoid contact with livestock and animal
   products and avoid eating meat that has not been properly slaughtered
   and cooked. Using common protection and sanitation techniques are
   essential in preventing exposure. If an object or package is suspected
   then the following are some immediate levels of protection that can be
   used:
     * Wear surgical gloves (especially if there are open sores on your
       hands)
     * Avoid smoking, eating, or drinking around the contaminated area.
     * Wash thoroughly with soap and warm water.

   Also, an anthrax vaccine has been licensed for use in humans. The
   vaccine is reported to be 93% effective in protecting against anthrax.
   However, the vaccine is not yet widely available except to the
   military. So, the best advice is to immediately vacate the area where
   anthrax is suspected be present, and avoid touching your facial area or
   open sores on your body. Seeking immediate attention from responding
   emergency medical personnel is always an excellent precaution.

   Is there treatment for anthrax?

   Doctors can prescribe effective antibiotics. To be effective, treatment
   should be initiated early. If left untreated, the disease can be fatal.

   Where can I find more information about anthrax?

   For further information regarding anthrax, you can access the Center
   for Disease Controls internet site at
   http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dbmd/diseaseinfo/anthrax_g.htm.

                    (Para leer en Español, oprima aqui)


                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.   Conditions of Use |
                               Privacy Policy
