http://astrobiology.arc.nasa.gov/missions/index.html

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [USEMAP:logo.gif]
   Home
   Latest News
   Roadmap
   Science Goals
   Technologies
   Missions
   Workshops
   Education
   Public Engagement
   Astrobiology Institute
   Our Web Awards
   Media Center
   Related Links
   Public Policy
   Questions
   References
   Search
   Biology at NASA
   Contacts
   Navagation Image
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

     Astrobiology: Missions

         What is Astrobiology?

         Getting the answers to the six basic questions of Astrobiology will
         require missions of exploration and investigation. Major targets for
         Astrobiology missions include:
           * Mars
           * Europa
           * Titan
           * Comets
           * Planets outside our solar system
           * The International Space Station
           * and, perhaps surprisingly, our own Earth and Moon

         Mars

         Liquid water once flowed on the surface of Mars and may still exist
         below its surface under conditions that some terrestrial organisms
         would find habitable.?

         Currently in orbit, the Mars Global Surveyor is gathering a wealth of
         data on Mars' surface features, atmosphere, and magnetic properties. By
         comparing Earth to Mars, scientists will better to understand Earth's
         history and perhaps its future. The data will also help in planning
         future missions.

         Approximately every two years, NASA will launch both a Mars orbiter and
         a Mars lander for detailed explorations of Mars. Future missions may
         include searching for water, seeking the cause of the profound
         environmental changes on Mars, and returning samples from Mars to test
         for fossil life.

         Europa

         The Galileo mission has provided tantalizing evidence that Europa, a
         moon of Jupiter, may hide a sea of liquid water beneath its icy crust.
         Astrobiology goals include determining whether an ocean is present,
         characterizing the prebiotic organic history, searching for life.

         A Europa Orbiter mission is planned for launch in 2003. Subsequent
         missions may include the Europa Ocean Observer and the Europa Lander
         Network.

         Titan

         Titan is the only moon in the solar system with a thick atmosphere
         (composed largely of nitrogen) and a sophisticated organic chemistry.

         The Cassini mission to Saturn will drop a probe into Titan's atmosphere
         in 2004 to take measurements. The Titan Biologic Explorer is being
         considered for sometime after 2005 to study prebiotic organics
         (chemical compounds that are the building blocks of life) in Titan's
         atmosphere and on its surface.

         Astrobiology opportunities within the NASA Solar System Exploration
         Program include reconstructing the chemical evolution histories of
         Earth, Mars, Europa, Titan, and comets, returning samples from Mars to
         test for fossil life, and searching for liquid water on Mars and
         Europa.

         Comets

         Comets may have been critical to the origin of life on Earth. Comet
         impacts may have created the Earth's oceans. (comets consist largely of
         water ice; they are, in a sense, "dirty snowballs."). Some research
         suggests that comets may be rich in prebiotic organic compounds.

         There are several missions to comets beginning in 1999, including a
         comet sample return mission and the possibility of commercial missions.
         Astrobiology goals include determining the degree of prebiotic
         chemistry and the water/organic inventory of comets to evaluate their
         role in the origin of life and development of habitable worlds.

         1999: Stardust
         Stardust will fly close to a comet and, for the first time, bring
         cometary material back to Earth for analysis. Stardust will encounter
         comet Wild 2 on January 2004, collect cometary material and
         interstellar dust streaming into the solar system, and return these
         samples to earth in 2006.

         2002: Muses
         Muses-C/Muses-CN will launch in January 2002 and return a sample from
         asteroid Nereus to Earth. This is a joint mission being carried out by
         the Japanese space agency, ISAS, and NASA. A tiny NASA rover called the
         Muses-CN is the smallest rover ever to fly in space and will land on
         Nereus.

         2003: Rosetta
         The international comet mission Rosetta will carry two landers --
         Champollion and Roland --to study the comet nucleus. Launched on an
         Ariane 5 in January 2003, Rosetta will rendezvous with comet 46
         P/Wirtanen in 2011 and land on the comet 2012.

         Planets outside Our Solar System

         Now:?Hubble Space Telescope
         The Hubble Space Telescope has been instrumental to the advancement of
         Astrobiology, having significantly expanded our understanding of planet
         formation, star formation, and the origins of the universe.

         2001:?SOFIA
         The Space Observatory for Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA) will be the
         largest airborne telescope in the world. Constructed from a 747
         aircraft, SOFIA will enable studies of interstellar clouds and star
         formation; protoplanetary disks (solar systems in the process of
         forming); the origin of biogenic elements; planetary atmospheres;
         comets; and interstellar processes within the center of the Milky Way
         and in other galaxies.

         2001: SIRTF
         The Space Infrared Telescope Facility (SIRTF) will enable studies of
         great interest to Astrobiology with unprecedented sensitivity. These
         include studies of protoplanetary and planetary debris disks and deep
         surveys of the early universe.

         2004?: ?The Kepler Mission
         The Kepler Mission is a search for habitable planets. Of the planets
         detected so far, with the exception of the pulsar planets, all of them
         are on the order of jovian (Jupiter-sized) or larger in mass. The
         challenge now is to find Earth-class planets, which are 300 times less
         massive than Jupiter. The Kepler Mission has been proposed to discover
         and characterize hundreds of Earth-class planets and will determine the
         frequency of Earth-class and larger planets in and near the habitable
         zone of a wide variety of spectral types of stars.

         2004: Space Interferometry Mission
         The Space Interferometry Mission (SIM) will be an optical
         interferometer operating in Earth orbit. SIM's goals are very broad,
         and cover many important areas of astrophysics, including searching for
         other solar systems, studying the processing of star and solar system
         formation, and studying the dynamics of star and star clusters in our
         Galaxy.

         2007: Next Generation Space Telescope
         The Next Generation Space Telescope will build on the extraordinary
         capabilities of the Hubble Space Telescope to allow even more exciting
         and in-depth explorations of how galaxies, stars and planetary systems
         form and evolve.

         2010:?Terrestrial Planet Finder
         The Terrestrial Planet Finder (TPF) Mission will be an infrared
         interferometer operating in an orbit designed to detect planets and
         planetary atmospheres that fall into the category of "earth-like." It
         will search out planetary systems around the brightest 1000 stars
         within 13 parsecs of our solar system. It will then analyze the spectra
         from the brightest 50–100 of these planetary systems to determine what
         elements may be present in planets' atmospheres.

         The International Space Station

   Astrobiology opportunities for the International Space Station include
   studying the adaptation and evolution of terrestrial life to various
   space environments and the nondestructive collection of cosmic dust.

   Earth

   Investigations of Earth provide analog (similar) environments for
   understanding life on other worlds. They also offer the opportunity to
   test technologies for use in future missions. Some of the top sites for
   Astrobiology study include the following:

   Antarctica and the Arctic, especially the dry valleys and thick ice
   covered lakes, are analog environments for Mars and Europa (Lake
   Vostok, Lake Hoare, ice shelf).

   Glaciers and ice sheets enable understanding of the adaptation of
   cold-tolerant organisms and also preserve evidence about the
   co-evolution of life and the environment over time. These studies are
   relevant to searching for evidence of life on Mars and Europa as well
   as understanding climate/biological evolution on Earth.

   Hot springs provide understanding of extreme environments and origin
   and early evolution of life relevant to detecting life beyond Earth.

   Hot deserts provide clues on the limits of life and how life may be
   detected beyond Earth.

   Impact sites for comet/meteorite impact-caused global mass extinctions
   and their relation to biological evolution.

   Volcanoes are important sites for understanding rapid change and
   ecosystem evolution and recovery from sterilization events.

   Deep ocean hydrothermal vents and cold seep communities are analog
   environments for Mars and Europa exploration as well as primary sites
   for understanding the origin and evolution of life.

   Subterranean environments and caves may harbor the largest biota on
   Earth and provide an excellent analog for possible subsurface life on
   Mars, as well as a technology testbed environment for Mars deep
   drilling, climate history, and the search for life.

   Missions to the stratosphere offer opportunities for understanding
   biology in extreme environments and extraterrestrial/terrestrial
   atmospheric chemistry. (See web sites on aerobiology and physical
   aerobiology.)

   The Leonid Meteor Storm is a terrestrial opportunity to study a comet’s
   interaction with Earth for insight into the origin of life as well as
   past and contemporary extraterrestrial/terrestrial atmospheric
   chemistry.

   Moon

   The Lunar Prospector Mission provides a research inventory for
   evolution of life beyond the home planet.


   [spacer.gif]

                            Questions? Comments?

                         Responsible NASA Official:
                              Kathleen Connell

                          Designed and Curated by:
                           Symtech Corp. and NASA

   [spacer.gif]
