http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=5

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   The Palouse represents idyllic America a land of amber waves and
   warm-hearted people. The long, peaceful roads are perfect for bike
   touring or scenic drives. Rolling fields, punctuated with historic
   towns, 19th-century architecture and remnants of pioneer farms, create
   a photographers dream. It is one of the richest wheat-growing regions
   in the world, but the Palouse is far more than just picturesque farm
   country.

   Ride a raft down, and a jet boat up, the Snake River through Hells
   Canyon, the deepest gorge in North America. Nearby, take in spectacular
   Palouse Falls, where the Palouse River tumbles 198 feet over layers of
   basalt lava deposited here during the last Ice Age. Or explore the
   wilderness of the 1.4 million-acre Umatilla National Forest with its
   rugged backcountry of peaks and canyons. The forest is ideal for
   hiking, mountain biking, and horsepacking. Keep your eyes open for
   Rocky Mountain elk, bighorn sheep, deer, cougar and black bear. If
   skiing is your passion, shoosh through deep powder (300 annual inches)
   on the slopes of the nearby Blue Mountains. The second-highest base
   elevation in the state is found here along with clear skies and
   luxuriously short lift lines.

   In addition to the mountains, gorges and sprawling agricultural beauty,
   the Palouse is a place rich in history, dating back more than 10,000
   years. Native Americans were here first, then Lewis and Clark passed
   through nearly two centuries ago on their journey to the mouth of the
   Columbia. They were likely the first non-indigenous people to set foot
   in Washington. In the fall of 1805, when westward bound, the Lewis &
   Clark Expedition arrived at the junction of two great rivers. One was
   the mighty Snake and it seems they established a camp on the bank of
   the other, the Clearwater. The expedition also camped on the banks of
   Patit Creek, a short distance from the Columbia County Courthouse, now
   newly restored, which remains as the oldest courthouse in the state.
   Take a walking tour of 83 houses on the National Historic Register or
   visit the Boomerang Newspaper and Printing Museum, which maintains
   equipment used by early-day printers. This fully-operational, antique
   equipment and the extensive collection of county newspapers provide a
   unique opportunity to explore and research letter-press printing
   methods as well as local history.

   The Palouse is the area where settlers first stepped foot in
   Washington. Native peoples had been fishing for salmon and eel in the
   rivers and cultivating the soil, rich with volcanic ash, for millennia.
   This is the wheat belt, but its also the lentil capital of the world.
   From this quaint corner of Americana, literally millions of pounds of
   lentils are shipped to Europe, South America and the Middle East. Visit
   the National Lentil Festival in August. But whenever you come, explore
   the varied beauty and pioneer history of the Palouse. Climb to the top
   of Steptoe Butte and peer south, toward the steep Blue Mountains, over
   thousands of square miles of undulating terrain.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
