http://wwwofe.er.doe.gov/Education.html

        Fusion Education

   [linehr.jpg]

                The Fusion Energy Sciences Program includes a diverse set
                of disciplines - from modern plasma physics theories
                dealing with chaotic systems of energetic particles and
                waves to more conventional engineering problems of applied
                electromagnetism. Throughout the scientific programs
                supported by this office, there is a conscious recognition
                of the importance of:

     * Using real-life fusion examples to enhance science education
       nationwide.
     * Using science education as a means to raise public awareness of
       fusion energy.


    While there are several programs specifically supported by the Office
    of Fusion Energy Sciences for the purpose of science education, all
    of the efforts within the fusion program are highly dependent on
    voluntary efforts by personnel across the program. These scientists,
    engineers, and technical support staff give lectures, conduct tours,
    develop displays, and otherwise contribute their time and energy to
    this purpose.

                Questions or suggestions regarding fusion education
                programs should be addressed to Dr. Darlene Markevich.

   [linehr.jpg]
   Specific Websites of Note Include:

                [atom.gif] Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Educational
                Website
                Includes links to a Fusion/Plasma Glossary, Frequently
                Asked Questions on Plasma and Fusion Science, Interactive
                Plasma Physics Experiments, and much more.
                [ATOM1.GIF] General Atomics Educational Website
                Includes a short slide show on fusion, a Quicktime tour of
                the inside of the DIII-D tokamak - a working fusion
                research experiment, and teacher resource materials.
                [ATOM2.GIF] Plasma Science and Fusion Center's Educational
                Outreach Programs at MIT
                Information on tours and activities at MIT's Plasma
                Science and Fusion Center for students and teachers at the
                K through 12 levels.
                [MISC_PYR.GIF] MIT Alcator C-Mod
                An introduction to the Alcator C-Mod fusion research
                tokamak at MIT. Includes on-line interactive displays and
                a video of hot plasma inside Alcator C-Mod.
                [film.gif] The Wonders of Physics - University of
                Wisconsin-Madison
                For twenty years, the University of Wisconsin has had a
                fast-paced lecture/demonstration program reaching over
                2000 members of the general public in it annual shows and
                many thousands more across the country with its traveling
                show.

                [ATOM2.GIF] Coalition for Plasma Science: The Coalition
                for Plasma Science is a group of institutions,
                organizations, and companies joining forces to increase
                awareness and understanding of plasma science and its many
                applications and benefits for society. At this Web site
                you can learn some new things about plasmas in our world,
                in our society, and in our economy.
                [ATOM2.GIF] Contemporar Physics Education Project (CPEP):
                Fusion - Physics of a Fundamental Energy Source. This is
                an online introductory college-level (or advanced high
                school senior) course on fusion, plus classroom charts in
                7 languages, from the Contemporary Physics Education
                Project.

                [Book05.gif] The American Physical Society Education and
                Outreach
                Educational outreach programs of the APS administered
                under: Committee on Education, Committee on Minorities in
                Physics, & Committee on the Status of Women in Physics.
                [ATOM4.GIF] Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
                Document about lasers and fusion energy developed at LLNL
                to provide a better understanding of the meaning of fusion
                energy and its development.
                [ATOM3.GIF] Plasma Science and Technology
                Communicates the fascination of plasma science, the vast
                range of its applications, and its profound implications
                for 21st century science and technology as well as for
                daily life.
                [Computer.gif] Energy Information Administration
                Information on energy sources, including petroleum,
                natural gas, coal, nuclear, renewables, end use
                consumption, prices, & frequently asked questions.
                [film.gif] Slide Show of MIT's Mr. Magnet
                For years, Paul Thomas, MIT's Plasma Science and Fusion
                Center, has carried out educational outreach for the
                elementary school children of New England.

   [linehr.jpg]

                Other Useful Resoures
                PCAST Report (1995): In their report, the President's
                Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology provided
                an excellent overview of the Benefits of Fusion R&D.

                Artsimovich Memorial Lectures: Lectures presented at the
                IAEA Conferences on Plasma Physics and Controlled Nuclear
                Fusion Research to commemorate Academician Lev Andreevich
                Artsimovich.

                Interesting and Useful Website Addresses for Information
                on Plasma Physics and
                Fusion Science: Once inside these Home Pages, you can
                access many other relevant web sites.

                Bibliography: A list of resource books on plasma physics
                and fusion.
                Coalition for Plasma Science: A teacher's Gudie to Plasma
                Science on the Web: This site is designed by teachers for
                teachers, and represents a "best of the web" for
                information on plasmas.

                Viewgraph and Resource Material: Vewgraphs on magnetic and
                inertial fusion, and teacher resource material at the
                middle school to college level.

                HBCU: Information on the Historically Black Colleges and
                Universities (HBCU) Program.

                SBIR/STTR: Discover what the Small Business Innovation
                Research Program (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology
                Transfer (STTR) Program have to offer.


                Fusion Power Plants: Summary of the U.S. Senior Committee
                on Environmental, Safety, and Economic Aspects of Magnetic
                Fusion Energy (ESECOM), August 15, 1988.

                Cost of Electricity from Fusion Power Plants: Advanced
                Reactor Innovation Evaluation Study - Reverse Shear
                (ARIES-RS) Report, August 30, 1996.

                For additional information on fusion power plants, see:
                "Fusion Engineering and Design," Vol. 38, No. 1,2, Dec.
                1997, p.3.

   [linehr.jpg]

    [al2m.gif]
    Click here to learn what Einstein is talking about.

                Back to Fusion Energy Sciences Program page

                Designed by Katrina Godwin
