http://www.ncvhs.hhs.gov/011001lt.htm

   October 1, 2001

   The Honorable Tommy G. Thompson
   Secretary
   U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
   200 Independence Avenue, SW
   Washington, DC 20201

   Dear Secretary Thompson:

   As part of its responsibilities under the Health Insurance Portability
   and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the National Committee on Vital
   and Health Statistics (NCVHS) monitors the implementation of the Final
   Rules that adopt the health data standards required by the
   Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA.

   On August 21-23, 2001, the NCVHS Subcommittee on Privacy and
   Confidentiality held public hearings on the implementation of the final
   rule for the “Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health
   Information” that was published on December 28, 2000. More than 30
   people, including health care providers, payers, researchers, members
   of professional organizations, other users of health care information,
   and members of the public testified on four key issues identified by
   the Department of Health and Human Services Office for Civil Rights
   (OCR) and the NCVHS: (1) the requirement for consent in order to use
   protected health information for treatment, payment, and health care
   operations; (2) the requirement that covered entities make reasonable
   efforts to limit the use and disclosure of protected health information
   to the minimum necessary; (3) the regulation on research; and (4) the
   marketing provisions. Oral testimony was provided by both invited
   witnesses and the public; additional written comments also were
   submitted.

   This letter addresses the first two issues, the consent requirements
   and the minimum necessary provisions. NCVHS will address the research
   and marketing issues in a future letter. The OCR attended the hearings
   and received copies of all the written comments, including comments
   that addressed issues that were beyond the scope of the hearings.
   Therefore, the OCR will have the opportunity to address additional
   issues and concerns not covered in this letter.

   The focus of the hearings was to explore practical issues in
   implementing the final rule, including unintended consequences of the
   rule, possible inconsistencies, and areas needing further
   clarification. Panelists were asked to provide specific suggestions for
   possible modifications of the rule. Testimony in each of the four areas
   represented a broad range of opinions. Many panelists expressed their
   appreciation for the clarification provided in the Department of Health
   and Human Services (HHS)/OCR guidance.

   Several speakers expressed concern about the difficulty of coming into
   compliance when parts of the rule may be amended. A few witnesses
   suggested that the compliance date should be delayed until two years
   from the date of the final revised rule. There was also testimony that
   the compliance date should be postponed until all the HIPAA standards
   are published. These specific issues, however, were not part of the
   Subcommittee’s request for testimony, and therefore, contrary testimony
   was not solicited. Consequently, NCVHS will not address them in this
   letter.

   NCVHS will continue to seek public comments on the implementation of
   the HIPAA administrative simplification provisions. In light of the
   widely voiced concern about the lead time needed for implementation,
   NCVHS respectfully recommends that modifications to the privacy rule be
   made as expeditiously as possible.

  Consent

   Testimony on the consent requirement represented a wide range of
   perspectives from those urging HHS to delete the mandatory consent
   requirement and make consent optional for all covered entities to those
   requesting more stringent provisions. Many panelists expressed concern
   about the administrative burden involved in obtaining consent and then
   storing, tracking, and updating it to reflect restrictions or
   revocations. Several panelists asserted that the rule already has
   sufficient privacy protections without the additional requirement of
   consent. There was testimony that the consent provision does not
   provide patients a truly informed and voluntary choice, and that the
   requirement will provide an unintended but significant barrier to the
   effective delivery of health care services.

   Others testified that the consent requirement is essential and an
   integral part of patients’ privacy rights. There was testimony that the
   requirement is not stringent enough because it does not protect
   disclosure to third parties, and it permits providers to refuse
   treatment if patients do not consent. There was also testimony that the
   rule coerces individuals into sharing their personal health information
   and limits individuals’ autonomy and their ability to control access to
   intimate details about their personal lives. Some panelists expressed
   concern that individuals will stop seeking treatment for fear of breach
   of confidentiality by covered entities.

   The Committee makes the following recommendations related to the
   implementation of the privacy rule:

   1. Emergency Access

   Providers expressed concern about an unintended and potentially harmful
   consequence of the rule. Under the rule, if a provider learns that a
   medication is the subject of a Food and Drug Administration recall or a
   life threatening drug interaction, the provider would be unable to
   access the records of those patients who had not yet consented or who
   had revoked consent in order to identify the patients and warn them of
   the situation. Concern was also expressed about emergency situations.
   For example, if an unconscious patient arrives in an emergency room and
   has not yet consented or has revoked consent, a provider would have to
   treat the patient without access to the medical record.

     The Committee believes that there are circumstances such as those
     above where records should be accessed without prior consent. NCVHS
     recommends that the OCR explore the specific circumstances where
     records can be accessed without the prior consent of the individual,
     and modify the rule as necessary.

   2. Continuing Use of Information Obtained Before HIPAA

   Several witnesses requested that the rule be modified to permit the
   continued use of data collected before the April 14, 2003 compliance
   date, and require consent only for data collected after that date.

     The Committee believes that the transition provisions in the rule
     (§164.532) are adequate. NCVHS does not support a proposal that
     consent be required only for data collected after the compliance
     date.

   3. Initial Contacts and First Encounters

   Much concern was expressed regarding the need to use and disclose
   information without written consent prior to the first contact between
   a patient and a provider in order to facilitate the timely delivery of
   patient care.

   While the guidance clarified several areas of concern to pharmacists,
   testimony indicated that some problem areas remain. It was recommended
   that in addition to phoned-in prescriptions (already the subject of a
   proposed change), the prior consent requirement should not apply to
   prescriptions brought to a pharmacy by any method other than
   face-to-face contact, such as prescriptions brought to a pharmacy by a
   neighbor, friend, relative, etc. of the patient, or prescriptions
   transmitted to the pharmacy by facsimile or electronic means. It was
   also requested that the modification allow pharmacists to fill or
   refill prescriptions not received by face-to-face contact after the
   compliance date if no consent is on file. Pharmacists also expressed
   concern about their inability to disclose potential adverse drug
   reactions to other providers, and their ability to meet state
   compliance requirements.

   Written testimony also recommended a modification of the consent
   provision for direct treatment providers to whom a patient is referred
   for the first time that would be consistent with the Medicaid rule
   allowing a representative to sign for a patient who is physically or
   mentally unable to sign a consent form.

   We understand that the modifications to the rule will allow direct
   treatment providers receiving a first time referral to schedule
   appointments, surgery, or other procedures before obtaining the
   patient’s signed consent.

     The NCVHS recommends that the above modifications be expanded to
     cover all first contacts when not face-to-face (e.g. phone advice,
     scheduling without referral, new patients).

   Testifiers recommended that continued use of existing data be allowed
   until a patient makes a physical appearance and is able to sign a
   consent form.

     The Committee supports the recommendation that the continued use of
     existing data be allowed until a patient makes a physical appearance
     and is able to sign a consent form. NCVHS recognizes and supports
     the HHS/OCR’s effort to provide additional clarification or
     modification regarding first encounters, and urges a continuation of
     these efforts.

   4. Revocation of Consent

   Testimony reflected several specific concerns about the revocation
   provisions. Particular concern was expressed about information from the
   individual patient record that has “migrated” into other systems, such
   as registries for various diseases and procedures. Data are often
   integrated into systems, and it is difficult to redact information
   after a revocation of consent. In addition, data are used in registries
   and other secondary databases for quality control and improvement
   purposes, and there was concern that revocations would dilute the
   usefulness of these registries and secondary databases for quality
   purposes.

   A number of organized health care entities function as both providers
   and health plans. HIPAA provisions permit a patient to revoke consent
   for treatment. If the patient revokes consent from a provider, the
   health plan may want to disenroll the member. However, other HIPAA
   portability provisions, Medicare rules, and Federal Employee Health
   Benefits Plan rules generally preclude disenrollment of members from a
   health plan except for nonpayment or fraud. In addition, state laws may
   prevent disenrollment.

     NCVHS recommends that HHS/OCR reconsider and clarify the
     circumstances surrounding revocation, in particular, the
     circumstances noted above.

   5. Consent by Minors

   Another area of concern involves minors’ right to revoke parental
   consent at majority. Some providers continue to rely on past consent;
   others seek consent from the young adult when the adult comes in for
   care.

     NCVHS recommends clarification regarding at what point a covered
     entity must obtain consent from a person who has reached the age of
     majority.

   6. Disclosure for Accreditation/ Health Care Quality Purposes

   Several panelists expressed concern that the final rule may have the
   unintended result of preventing the sharing of health information that
   fundamentally advances health plans’ role in facilitating quality
   health care for consumers. Under the final rule, consent for health
   care operations covers the provider’s health care operations; it does
   not include the operations of the health plan. Frequently, the
   information provided on claims is not sufficient for quality assessment
   and related purposes; further, capitated providers may not provide
   plans with encounter information for payment on a routine basis.

   National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and Joint Commission on
   Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations accreditation rules require
   that these bodies have access to a random sample of charts to determine
   whether quality standards are being adhered to. This type of review
   would not be representative if it could not include data for members
   who had not yet consented or who had revoked consent. Health plans
   participating in the Medicare + Choice program are required to report
   Quality Improvement System for Managed Care performance measures to the
   Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Many state statutes require
   health plans to report performance measures such as Health Plan
   Employer Data and Information Set (HEDIS) for all health plan members.

   Access to protected health information held by providers for all the
   above accreditation, quality assurance, and performance measure
   activities related to health plan operations would be severely
   constrained if additional authorizations would have to be secured each
   time from the patient. Concern was also expressed that health plans
   would be unable to report accurate, statistically valid data if members
   revoke consent and disallow use and disclosure of that part of their
   record.

     NCVHS recommends that the rule be amended to allow providers to
     disclose to health plans, without individual written authorization,
     information needed for accreditation and health care quality
     purposes. NCVHS recommends that provider groups also should have
     access to the same data for quality improvement, provider monitoring
     and credentialing, and health care operations, even if consent has
     not been obtained or has been revoked.

   7. Involuntary Commitment

   There was testimony that the privacy rule does not except from the
   consent requirements involuntarily committed patients who refuse to
   sign a release permitting use and disclosure of information. Although
   there is a legal duty to treat such individuals, a consent requirement
   for access to their records would compromise the quality of the
   treatment.

     NCVHS recommends that HHS/OCR clarify the situations involving the
     involuntary commitment of competent patients who refuse to consent
     to treatment, and specifically address the issue of whether these
     persons are covered under the exception for legally mandated
     treatment.

  Minimum Necessary

   Testimony on the minimum necessary provisions reflected a wide range of
   views, from those who felt the rule provides sufficient privacy
   protections without the requirement to those who view the minimum
   necessary requirement as embodying the essence of the privacy rule.
   While many panelists welcomed the flexibility inherent in the minimum
   necessary provisions, there was also concern that the vagueness of the
   standard might restrict the necessary flow of information, impede care,
   and lead to an increase in defensive information practices (the
   withholding of information important to health care for fear of
   liability). The rule’s use of terms such as “reasonable efforts” and
   “substantial discretion” were cited as examples of vagueness.

   Several speakers expressed concern about the increased cost and
   administrative burden associated with the minimum necessary
   requirement; others stated that the cost in addition to existing
   routine administrative costs will barely be discernable. One panelist
   questioned whether the standard provides any advantage or protection
   for patients; another panelist stated that the minimum necessary
   standard will bolster the patient’s control of his or her medical
   information and encourage patients to be more candid with their
   doctors.

     NCVHS strongly reaffirms the importance of the minimum necessary
     principle. The Committee would like to facilitate the necessary flow
     of information and minimize defensive information practices. The
     concerns and recommendations below address specific issues related
     to the implementation of the minimum necessary requirement.

   1. Determination of Minimum Necessary

   Witnesses differed over whether determinations of minimum necessary
   should be made by the requesting party or the recipient of the request.
   Many panelists found the guidance helpful in addressing questions about
   the standard. However, unresolved questions remain. It was suggested
   that the guidance could enumerate some disclosures that are presumed
   appropriate.

   Case by case determinations are only required for non-routine uses of
   information. The holder of information is currently able to rely on the
   determination of minimum necessary by a covered entity and other
   entities identified in the rule.

     NCVHS recommends that HHS/OCR provide additional clarification on
     the issue of reasonable reliance. In addition, NCVHS recommends that
     HHS/OCR clarify that a covered entity’s policies and procedures may
     address the minimum necessary requirement for the routine use of
     information.

   2. Defensive Practices

   Several panelists expressed concern that unresolved questions about the
   standard, fear of potential liability, and civil and criminal penalties
   could restrict the necessary flow of information, impede care, and lead
   to defensive information practices.

     NCVHS recommends that HHS/OCR provide education to address the
     increasing concerns about liability and defensive information
     practices that lessen the flow of information and impede care.

   3. Opinions/Models

   The ambiguity of the minimum necessary standard and the cost and
   administrative burden of developing policies and procedures and
   implementing the requirement were frequently cited.

     NCVHS recommends that HHS/OCR issue advisory opinions, publish best
     practices, and make available model policies, procedures, and forms
     for various purposes.

   We appreciate the opportunity to offer these comments and
   recommendations.

   Sincerely,

   /s/

   John Lumpkin, M.D., M.P.H.
   Chair
