http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/infrastructure.html

   [USEMAP:headinfrastructure.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                              VISION:
         Integrate the Government Services Information Infrastructure
                                Full statement
   U.S. State and Local The one-stop Internet link Gateway to federal
    information for state and local government managers and employees
                                           http://www.statelocal.gov

                            Story Archive

      [openbook.gif] Federal White
      Pages Online
      The Federal White Pages Project is working across government to provide
      the name, telephone number, and e-mail address for all federal
      employees in an easy-to-use online database. Here's the progress so
      far.

      Search Scientific Journals Online [journals.gif]
      This year we announce another new service developed by the same folks
      at the Department of Energy who brought you "an Electronic Bridge to
      the 21st century" last year. Believe it or not, researching thousands
      of scientific journal articles can now be quick, easy and free with the
      exciting new public search service called PubSCIENCE.

      GSA's WebForms Site Is a Hit
      [gsawebform.gif] One year ago we reported that the General Services
      Administration has put hundreds of commonly used federal forms on a
      one-stop web site. These GSA forms, Standard Forms, and Optional Forms
      can be viewed, filled in, printed, e-mailed or faxed directly from the
      Internet. Here's the report one year later--and it's good.

      Federal Statistics Online
      [nummonitor.gif] Everyone knows the U.S. Census Bureau counts how many
      people we have. But do you know that 69 other federal agencies collect
      and analyze statistics on everything from agricultural output to
      banking data to the top 20 hazardous substances to on time flight
      records, to weekly earnings? What federal statistics do you need today?
      It's on this one-stop site. PS: Arsenic is the number one hazardous
      substance.

      National Science Foundation's Grants
      Are in Online Database
      [science075113.jpg] The National Science Foundation provided over $3.7
      billion in 1998 for crucial research projects. Community of Science
      invites you to search its free NSF Grants database. It lets you quickly
      find which projects are being funded in areas of science and
      engineering that matter to you. It's updated every week.



      We're Looking for Stories

      Federal workers are doing amazing things to deliver government services
      electronically. But often, agencies deliver similar services using
      similar but separate information databases, developed over many years.
      Federal agencies have begun to consolidate this information
      infrastructure to improve service delivery and cut costs.

      Access America E-Gov E-Zine wants stories about how federal agencies
      are integrating the infrastructure pieces to provide "one-stop"
      electronic access to government services. We're also looking for
      stories about integrating telecommunications networks within the
      federal government.

      These stories can be short, as in a "byte" of about 150 words, or they
      can be longer feature stories. Write feature stories in plain language
      with quotes from customers who experience the service electronically
      and quotes from federal employees and their partners who deliver the
      service.

      Include a contact person with phone number and email address. Send your
      stories to pat.wood@npr.gov or pat.smith@gsa.gov. If you need more
      information, call Pat Wood, National Partnership for Reinventing
      Government, (202) 694-0063. Please pass this request along to others
      who may be interested.
