http://www.treasurer.ca.gov/csfa/extracredit/extracredit.htm

   FRAME: contents
   FRAME: banner
   FRAME: main

                             Extra Credit Header

PROGRAM DESCRIPTION

   In September 2000, the Extra Credit Teacher Home Purchase Program was
   created with an initial allocation of $64 million in tax-exempt bond
   authority. In January 2001, the California Debt Limit Allocation
   Committee (CDLAC) approved a $100 million allocation for the Extra
   Credit Program for homeownership assistance to teachers and principals
   for program year 2001. The homeownership assistance will help teachers
   and principals willing to serve in low performing schools to purchase a
   home.

   Under the Extra Credit Teacher Home Purchase Program, teachers and
   principals who commit to serve in designated low performing schools for
   five years will qualify for tax credits or reduced interest rate loans
   to purchase a home. As an example, tax credits under the Program are
   worth approximately $37,000 over the life of a 30-year, $150,000
   mortgage - an annual savings of $1,800.

   Through each jurisdiction administering the program, eligible teachers
   and principals will also be guaranteed at least $7,500 in local
   downpayment assistance.

   The purpose of the Extra Credit program is to help attract and retain
   qualified teachers and principals to serve in low performing schools.
   The program targets a scarce public resource to those schools that
   struggle the most, and to those teachers and principals who are fully
   qualified to help those schools achieve success.

Program Details

   The following jurisdictions have received an allocation of tax credits
   or mortgage revenue bonds from CDLAC to be used to support a program to
   recruit and retain teachers and principals agreeing to serve in low
   performing schools: Sacramento, San Francisco, Santa Clara, Los Angeles
   , Orange, San Bernardino, and Santa Cruz counties, and the cities of
   San Francisco, Los Angeles and Oakland. The California Housing Finance
   Agency administers the program on a statewide basis and has made the
   program available to all areas in the state. Top priority for funding
   was given to programs that match the State awarded allocation with
   local homeownership assistance (such as assistance for down-payments
   and closing costs). Priority is also given to programs that indicate
   the highest need for recruitment and retention and most effectively
   utilize the allocation to retain and recruit qualified teachers and
   principals.

How do Teachers and Principals Apply?

   Eligible teachers and principals will apply through participating
   mortgage brokers and lenders, and should contact their local
   jurisdiction to receive specific information about the program
   administered in that area and the list of participating lenders.

   The following jurisdictions administer the Extra Credit Teacher Home
   Purchase Program:


   City of Los Angeles (for homes in the City of Los Angeles ONLY)
   Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Program Available: December 2000
   Contact: Doug Smith, (213) 367-9069

   More information on the City of Los Angeles' Reduced Interest Rate Loan
   Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   City of Los Angeles
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   County of Los Angeles (not including the City of Los Angeles)
   Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Program available: December 2000
   Contact: Southern California Housing Finance  Agency
   Information Line:  (323) 890-7249

   More information on the County of Los Angeles' Reduced Interest Rate
   Loan Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   County of Los Angeles
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   City of Oakland (for teachers in the City of Oakland ONLY)
   Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Program available: August 20, 2001
   Contact: California Housing Finance Agency (CHFA)
   Homeownership Programs
   (916) 324-8088

   More information on the City of Oakland's Reduced Interest Rate Loan
   Program
   Tax Credit Program

   Program available: August 2001
   Contact: County of Alameda
   Laura Hansen, (916) 670-5246

   More information on the City of Oakland's Tax Credit Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   City of Oakland
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   County of Orange
   Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Program available: December 2000
   Contact: Julia Bidwell, (916) 264-1524

   More information on the County of Orange's Reduced Interest Rate Loan
   Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   County of Orange
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   County of Sacramento
   Tax Credit Program

   Program available: November 2000
   Contact: Carla Christian, (916) 264-1524

   More information on the County of Sacramento's Tax Credit Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   County of Sacramento
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   County of San Bernardino
   Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Program available: December 2000
   Contact: Roberta Keyes, (909) 388-0914

   More information on the County of San Bernardino's Reduced Interest
   Rate Loan Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   County of San Bernardino
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   City and County of San Francisco
   Tax Credit Program

   Program available: December 2000
   Contact: Maggie Davis Badger, (415) 252-3185

   More information on the City & County of San Francisco's Tax Credit
   Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   City and County of San Francisco
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   County of Santa Clara
   Tax Credit Program

   Program available: October 2000
   Contact: Brandi Hoffman, (408) 299-4711

   More information on the County of Santa Clara's Tax Credit Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   County of Santa Clara
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   County of Santa Cruz
   Tax Credit Program

   Program available: May 9, 2001
   Contact: Housing Authority of the County of Santa Cruz
   Sue Hoge, (831) 464-0170 ext. 240

   More information on the County of Santa Cruz's Tax Credit Program

   Low Performing Schools:

   County of Santa Cruz
   Click here to view the list of eligible Low Performing Schools.
   Statewide
   Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Program available:      July 2, 2001
   Contact:                California Housing Finance Agency (CHFA)
                           Homeownership Programs
                           (916) 324-8088

   More information on the Statewide Reduced Interest Rate Loan Program

   Low Performing Schools: By City or By County

   This information will be updated regularly to provide internet links to
                 access information from each jurisdiction.

                           What the Program Offers

     The program will provide eligible teachers and principals mortgage
    assistance in the form of either an annual reduction of their federal
    income taxes with a tax credit (mortgage credit certificate program),
      or a reduced interest rate mortgage loan (mortgage revenue bond).

     What is a Mortgage Credit Certificate or Mortgage Revenue Bond Loan?
     * Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC): For a family with a $150,000, 8%
       fixed interest rate mortgage, the credit (roughly 15% of their
       mortgage interest payment) would be approximately $37,000 over the
       life of the mortgage with an annual savings of up to $1,800. The
       credit would be highest in the early years of the loan, when there
       is more interest paid by the homeowner.

     Through the use of an MCC, eligible home buyers increase their
     ability to qualify for a mortgage loan. MCC recipients may take 15%
     of their annual mortgage interest payments as a dollar-for-dollar
     tax credit, thereby reducing their federal income tax bill. The home
     buyer may adjust his or her federal income tax withholding, thereby
     increasing income available to pay the mortgage. If the home buyer
     does not pay enough tax during the year to use the full credit, the
     unused credit can be carried over to future years for up to three
     years.

     * Mortgage Revenue Bond (MRB): For a family with a $150,000 mortgage
       loan, the mortgage interest rate would be reduced by approximately
       1%, which would result in savings of approximately $37,000 over the
       life of the loan.

     An MRB is a below market interest rate mortgage. For example, if
     conventional mortgage rates are 8%, an MRB loan could be as low as
     7%.

         Basic Eligibility Requirements for Teachers and Principals

     * To qualify, the teacher or principal must be a first-time home
       buyer, or have not owned a home within the last three years. (This
       means the teacher or principal must not have owned a home in any
       state within the last three years.)
     * The teacher or principal must have a combined family annual income
       of 115% or less of the county or statewide median income, whichever
       is higher, for a family of three or more and 100% or less for a
       family of one to two persons. (Please see the area-specific income
       limits listed below each jurisdiction.)
     * Home purchase price limits are set at up to 90% of the area average
       purchase price for existing and new homes. These limits are
       established by the public agencies that will run the program, based
       on information provided by the Internal Revenue Service. (Please
       see the area-specific purchase price limits listed below each
       jurisdiction.)
     * All eligible teachers and principals must agree to serve for a
       minimum of five years in a Low Performing School. [For the purposes
       of this program, a Low Performing School is designated as a K-12
       public school ranked in the bottom 30% based on the most recent
       Academic Performance Index (API), i.e. schools that have received
       an API statewide ranking of a 1, 2 or 3.]
     * An eligible teacher must hold one of the following credentials
       issued by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing, and
       must be currently employed full-time in a Low Performing School in
       the subject and grade level as authorized by his or her credential:

     Single Subject Teaching Credential
     Multiple Subject Teaching Credential
     Specialist Instruction Credential in Special Education
     Education Specialist Instruction Credential
     Standard Elementary Teaching Credential
     Standard Secondary Teaching Credential
     Standard Early Childhood Education Teaching Credential
     Standard Restricted Special Education Teaching Credential
     General Kindergarten-Primary Teaching Credential
     General Elementary Teaching Credential
     General Junior High Teaching Credential
     General Secondary Teaching Credential
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Art
     Special Credential for Teaching Exceptional Children
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Business Ed
     Special Secondary Credential for Teaching the Blind
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Homemaking
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Industrial Arts
     Special Secondary Credential for Teaching Lip Reading
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Music
     Special Secondary Limited Teaching Credential in Music
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential Limited in Agriculture
     Special Secondary Credential for Teaching the Partially Sighted
     Child
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Physical Education
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Speech Arts
     Special Secondary Teaching Credential in Correction of Speech
     Defects
     Special Secondary Credential for Teaching the Mentally Retarded

     * An eligible principal must hold one of the following credentials
       issued by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing and
       must be currently employed full-time as a principal, vice principal
       or assistant principal in a Low Performing School:

     Administrative Services Credential
     Administrative Services Credential (Examination)
     Standard Supervision Credential
     Standard Administration Credential
     General Elementary School Administration Credential
     General Elementary School Supervision Credential
     General Secondary School Administration Credential
     General Secondary School Supervision Credential
     General Administration Credential
     General Supervision Credential
     The Supervision Credential
     General School Principal or Supervisor Credential

                List of CA K-12 Public Schools (API ranking)

      An official list of the California K-12 public schools that have
     received an API ranking is provided here, thanks to the California
                          Department of Education!

   Click on a link below to see if a school qualifies as a Low Performing
   School for the purposes of this program (i.e., those with a "Statewide
                        API Ranking" of a 1, 2 or 3).

                       School List (Excel 97 - 1.28Mb)
                                     Or
                               Search by City
                              Search by County

                       Am I Eligible For The Program?
    1. Are you a fully credentialed teacher, principal, assistant
       principal or vice principal?
    2. Do you possess one of the credentials listed above?
    3. Are you currently employed at a designated low performing school
       (i.e., a school that has received an API statewide ranking of 1, 2
       or 3)?
    4. Are you willing to commit to serve in a designated low performing
       school for the next five years?
    5. Are you a first-time homebuyer (or have not owned a home in the
       last three years)?
    6. Do you meet the income limit requirements and home purchase price
       limit requirements for your area? (Please see the limits listed
       under each jurisdiction.)

   If you answered yes to all of these questions, you may qualify for the
                 Extra Credit Teacher Home Purchase Program.

                                   Contact

     If you have questions about the Extra Credit Teacher Home Purchase
            Program, please contact our offices at 916-653-3255.
