http://www.anri.barc.usda.gov/awpl/index.asp

   USDA logo and link to USDA homepage Animal Waste Pathogen Laboratory
                                       (AWPL) logo

   Home button
   Mission Statement button
   Staff button
   CRIS button
   Comments button
   Links button
   ARS logo and link to ARS homepage
   Agricultural Research Service
   U.S. Department of Agriculture

   If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see the navigation
   buttons change color when you roll the mouse over them

Research in the Animal Waste Pathogen Laboratory (AWPL) is designed to
improve the health and safety of farm animals, consumers, and the environment
by protecting them against pathogens found in animal waste. AWPL is part of
the Animal and Natural Resources Institute at the Henry A. Wallace Beltsville
Agricultural Research Center.

                *

                                    AWPL Research in the News!

AWPL Research Links...

   Picture of parasite-infected tissue above list of pathogens
   Pathogens
   [Select a link__]If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see
   a selectable navigation menu for the pathogens research section.
   Picture of purified C. parvum oocysts above the links for research
   Research
   [Select a link_____]If your browser had javascript enabled, you would
   see a selectable navigation menu for the research section.

                     Dr. Michael Perdue, Research Leader

       Building 173, Rm. 102A, Beltsville Agricultural Research Center
                   United States Department of Agriculture
                        Agricultural Research Service
                           10300 Baltimore Avenue
                       Beltsville, Maryland 20705-2350

                             Tel: (301) 504-5607
                             Fax: (301) 504-6608

                          Mary Murray, Secretary OA
                 Barbara Swartz, Office Automation Assistant
                This site was last updated December 21, 2001
            If you experience technical problems with this site,
                     please send an email to: R. Palmer
                                 THANK YOU!
