http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERD/ND060395.HTML

   noaa logo NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE      Operations Manual
                                                      SILVER SPRING,
   MARYLAND 20910    Letter 3-95

   Date of Issue:    April 27, 1995                      Effective Date:
   April 27,1995

   In Reply Refer To:    W/OM12                     File With:   D-06

   Subject: Duties of Incident Response Meteorologist Requiring Exposure
   to Hazardous Situations

   References: This OML enhances WSOM Chapter D-06, Transmittal Issuance
   91-11. It establishes a requirement for Incident Response
   Meteorologists to enter situations that have been defined as hazardous
   and may qualify them for hazardous duty pay differential.

   Purpose

   This OML outlines responsibilities of Incident Response Meteorologists
   providing on-site support at a wildfire or nonfire incident that may
   require occasional exposure to hazardous conditions.

   Background

   Assistance to land management agencies in the control of large and
   dangerous wildfires is provided by specially trained fire weather
   forecasters of NOAA's National Weather Service (NWS). These
   forecasters, known as Incident Response Meteorologists, or IR Mets,
   work on-site providing the Incident Command Team detailed site-specific
   weather advice and forecasts essential to safe and effective
   fire-suppression activities. IR Mets have also been requested to
   support nonfire incidents such as earthquakes and hazardous material
   spill.

   IR Mets work in partnership with the Fire Behavior Analyst (FBA) in the
   Planning Section of the Incident Command team. The IR Met and the FBA
   are considered technical specialists and report directly to the
   Planning Section Chief.

   Requirement for Exposure to Hazardous Situations

   The IR Met is required to prepare written forecasts and provide oral
   briefings as requested by the FBA or other members of the Incident
   Command team. In order to become familiar with the topography that may
   influence the microclimate and behavior of the fire, IR Mets must
   accompany the FBA on periodic reconnaissance trips to observe the
   terrain in which the fire is burning. This may involve personally
   visiting the fire line or observing the fire from a low flying
   aircraft.

   When IR Mets are within close proximity to the fire line, they must
   adhere to safety guidelines established by the fire control agencies.
   This includes wearing protective clothing, hard hats, and leather
   boots. IR Mets must follow all personal safety rules and instructions
   issued by the FBA and/or aviation ground safety officers.

   Local weather observations are an important source of data and help the
   IR Met provide effective weather services for the management team. The
   IR met must assist the FBA in siting portable observing equipment
   (e.g., Micro-REMS). This may require transporting the equipment up/down
   steep rocky slopes or into other terrain that may present hazards. IR
   Mets must use good judgment in selecting sites that will provide
   optimum weather information while minimizing the difficulty of
   placement, monitoring, and maintenance.

   Special Situations

   On past occasions, IR Mets have been required to help protect base
   camps directly threatened by wildfire and help suppress small spot
   fires. These are unusual situations, but NWS personnel must be prepared
   to provide any assistance requested by the circumstance.

   Hazard Pay

   Regulations governing hazard pay are described in the Federal Personnel
   Manual. Duty performed under circumstances that could contribute to an
   accident resulting in serious injury or death is considered hazardous.
   However, hazard pay is not authorized for duty entered into
   voluntarily.

   Duties of IR Mets performed under the circumstances and conditions
   described in this OML may be considered hazardous duty and may be the
   basis for authorizing hazard pay differential. As a matter of policy,
   the NWS has specifically determined that the NWS requirement for an IR
   Met to conduct a reconnaissance of the terrain at the surface in the
   immediate vicinity of the fire line constitutes exposure to a hazard
   and that hazard pay differential ;s allowable.

   When an IR Met performs duties involving exposure to a hazard, it will
   be entered on the IR Met's incident time sheet with
   authorization/approval noted by the signature of the Planning Section
   Chief. The IR Met's NWS supervisor will also annotate the employee's
   time and attendance records and attach a copy of the incident time
   sheet.

   IR Mets should not expect to perform activities routinely that are
   ''hazardous" and qualify for hazard pay (i.e., daily trips to the fire
   line are not required and will be considered routine and voluntary). It
   has also been determined that helicopter reconnaissance, while
   desirable, is not required and will be considered voluntary for NWS
   personnel.

   Elbert W. Friday, Jr.
   Assistant Administrator
     for Weather Services
