http://chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov/hsd/hydrog.htm

   jump to text jump to links

   [USEMAP:navigation_r1_c1.gif]
   About Us
   What's New?
   Navigational Charts and Related Products
   Critical Corrections
   Wrecks and Obstructions
   Navigation Services
   Hydrographic Surveys
   Historic Maps and Charts
   Research and Development
   Sales Information
   Library
   FAQs
   Contact Us
   Home
   [navigation_r16_c1.gif]

   ""
   Office of Coast Survey Text Hydrography


   topline
   current hydrographic projects
   order hydrographic surveys
   contracting opportunities
   sonar
   ""

   Hydrographic Survey, Alaska

                         Hydrographic Survey, Alaska

   Hydrography is the science which deals with the measurement and
   description of the physical features of bodies of water and their
   littoral land areas. Special emphasis is usually placed on the elements
   that affect safe navigation and the publication of such information in
   a suitable form for use in navigation.

   A hydrographic survey may be conducted to support a variety of
   activities: nautical charting, port and harbor maintenance (dredging),
   coastal engineering (beach erosion and replenishment studies), coastal
   zone management, and offshore resource development. The one data type
   common to all hydrographic surveys is water depth. Of additional
   concern to most surveys is the nature of the sea floor material (i.e.
   sand, mud, rock) due to its implications for anchoring, dredging,
   structure construction, pipeline and cable routing and fisheries
   habitat.

   The primary use of hydrographic surveys is for nautical charting. This
   requires the precise location of least depths on dangers to navigation
   and depths significant to surface navigation. The precise location of
   aids to navigation is also required.

   Side scan sonars are often deployed to facilitate the detection of
   submerged dangers to navigation. Tide or water level measurements are
   also recorded to provide a vertical reference (Mean Lower Low Water)
   for water depths.

   All NOS hydrographic data are now collected and processed with
   specialized computer systems which store the data in digital form and
   generate graphic displays of the hydrographic data on mylar "smooth
   sheets" at a variety of survey scales, usually at 1:10,000 and
   1:20,000-scale. The criteria for the smooth sheet scale are based on
   the scale of the nautical chart of the area and the amount of
   hydrographic detail necessary to adequately depict the bottom
   topography and portray the least depths over critical features.

   NOAA Ship WHITING Klein Side Scan Sonar NOAA Ship RUDE DTM of Portland
   AWOIS One of the current NOAA contracting vessels
     * Hydrographic Surveys Specifications and Deliverables
     * National Survey Plan
     * Joint Hydrographic Center at the University of New Hampshire
     * NOAA's vessels
     * Contractors
     * S/V BAY HYDROGRAPHER
     * THE S/V BAY HYDROGRAPHER and NOS' Oxford Laboratory
     * Pacific Hydrographic Branch and Atlantic Hydrographic Branch
     * Technical Papers
     * Hydrographic Society of America
     * Shore and Sea Boundaries by Aaron L. Shalowitz

   About Us What's New? Nautical Charts and Related Publications Critical
   Corrections Wrecks and Obstructions [Transpar-nav-box.gif] Hydrographic
   Surveys Research and Development Historic Maps and Charts Library Sales
   Information FAQs Contact Us Home


   Top line
   Department of Commerce
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   OCS Privacy Statement
   National Ocean Service
   [bottomlines.gif]

   Revised Friday December 28 2001 by OCS Webmaster
