http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/me041901.pdf

   MINUTE ENTRY FALLON, J. April 19, 2001 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
   EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA : MDL NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID :
   PRODUCTS LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION "L" :: JUDGE FALLON .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. : JUDGE AFRICK THIS DOCUMENT RELATES TO ALL CASES: A
   pretrial status conference was held April 19, 2001 at 9:00 a.m. in the
   courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon. In attendance for Plaintiffs were
   Richard J. Arsenault, Roy Amedee, Daniel E. Becnel, James Capretz,
   Rebecca Cunard, Leonard Davis, James Dugan, Walter Dumas, Kim Evers,
   James Hatch, Russ M. Herman, Barry Hill, Julie Jacobs, Arnold Len, Fred
   Longer, Hiawatha Northington, Carla Perm, Carlos Prietto, James Roy,
   Gordon Rudd, Chris Seeger, Lwyn Swanson, and Charles Taylor. In
   attendance for Defendants were Thomas F. Campion, James B. Irwin, and
   Charles F. Preuss At the conference, counsel reported to the Court on
   the topics set forth in Joint Report No. 6 of Plaintiffs' and
   Defendants' Liaison Counsel. 1. Virtual Document Depository Counsel for
   Plaintiffs and Defendants continue to discuss issues regarding the
   creation of a virtual document depository. 2. Master Complaint/Answer
   Plaintiffs explained that the PLC delivered to the DLC a draft of the
   Plaintiffs' Position Paper Regarding the filing of a Master Complaint
   and Answer on March 22, 2001. The DLC advised the Court that Defendants
   will file a response to the position paper and raise any issues of
   concern with the court at the next monthly status conference. 3. Update
   to Rolling Document Production Counsel advised the Court that
   Defendants have produced 1,517,188 pages of documents on CD-ROM and
   15,000 pages of documents in paper form. Counsel indicated that the
   next production of documents will occur during the week of April 16,
   2001 with the delivery of documents and associated data on CD-ROM as
   well as video tapes and other media. Plaintiffs also stated that they
   forwarded to Defendants a sequencing request for the production of
   foreign materials responsive to discovery requests. Defendants
   explained that they are in the process of accommodating the sequencing
   requests subject to the completion of the document collection and
   indexing. The Court encouraged the parties to work together to reach an
   agreement on the issue of sequencing. 4. Electronic Service/Verilaw
   Documents have been electronically served through Verilaw. Counsel
   indicated that they are addressing with Verilaw the issue of serving
   documents submitted under seal. 5. State Liaison Counsel State Liaison
   Counsel have participated in coordination telephone calls, depositions
   and document review. 2 6. Electronic Document Preservation and
   Production The parties explained that they have resolved issues
   regarding the preservation of domestic electronic data and at the
   conference submitted a proposed pretrial order to the Court concerning
   this issue. The parties also indicated that they continue to discuss
   technical issues regarding the production of electronic data and will
   be prepared to report to the court on the particulars of these issues
   at the next monthly status conference. Defendants requested that they
   be able to submit the names of international custodians to the Court in
   camera. The Court, after hearing argument from the parties, granted
   Defendants' request to submit the names of the international custodians
   to the Court in camera. 7. 30(b)(6) Deposition Regarding Corporate
   Organization Counsel indicated that they are continuing to conduct
   corporate depositions and that the parties are working together to
   schedule the deposition of a corporate representative from Beerse,
   Belgium. 8. Plaintiff Profile Forms and Authorizations Defendants
   stated that they had received 174 Patient Profile Forms (PPFs) as of
   April 13, 2001. Overdue PPFs total 214, and 94 PPFs will become due in
   thirty (30) days or fewer. Defendants indicated that they are satisfied
   with the progress of collecting PPFs and will continue to advise the
   Court of the progress of the collection. 9. Depositions in State
   Matters that have been Cross Noticed Counsel explained that the
   deposition of Alan Josyln, Ph.D., Janssen Director of Global Clinical
   Research and Development, was taken on April 2, 3, and 4, 2001 in state
   court litigation Representatives of the PSC were present and the
   deposition was cross-noticed with MDL 1355. 3 Defendants have also
   cross-noticed the depositions of (1) Gary Pruden, Janssen Director of
   Marketing for April 25-27, 2001 and (2) Stephen Spielberg, M.D.,
   Janssen Vice President of Pediatric Drug Development for May 10-11,
   2001. All of these depositions were cross noticed subject to the
   Plaintiffs' reservation of rights to retake the depositions. 10.
   Subpoena to FDA Plaintiffs explained that they served the Food and Drug
   Administration (FDA) with a subpoena requesting a number of documents
   in its possession. Counsel for the FDA explained to the PLC that the
   FDA is currently overburdened with production requests and will not be
   able to satisfy the Plaintiffs' requests for six months. Plaintiffs
   indicated that they are continuing to negotiate with the FDA about
   their document request and will report to the Court on the status of
   these negotiations at the next monthly status conference. 11.
   Plaintiffs' Time and Billing Matters The PLC provided the Court with a
   written update regarding Plaintiffs' counsel's time and billing expense
   matters. 12. Service List of Attorneys Representatives of the PLC and
   DLC met with the Court's staff to discuss methods for maintaining a
   master service list of attorneys for MDL 1355. The Court indicated that
   it will modify its consolidation order, which is distributed to all
   newly transferred cases to MDL 1355, to instruct counsel to contact
   liaison counsel upon the transfer of their case to this Court. 13.
   Defendants Liaison and Lead Counsel Defendants noted that additional
   defense counsel of record have been added to MDL 1355 4 and that the
   DLC wishes to discuss with the Court the responsibilities of these
   counsel in MDL 1355. 14. Scheduling of May Pretrial Status Conference
   The next pretrial status conference will be held on Thursday, May 17,
   2001 at 9:00 a.m. 5
