http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERA/NA218809.HTML

   commerce logo         U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                                  National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                                 NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                                  Silver
   Spring, Md. 20910

                                                                  October
   20, 1988             W/OSO1

   TO:                 All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:      Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   88-9

   1. Material Transmitted:

   WSOM Chapter A-21, "NWS Configuration Management for Operational
   Systems," 22 pages.

   2. Summary:

   This chapter has been substantially rewritten to reflect changes in
   roles and responsibilities in the configuration management of NWS
   commissioned, operational systems. The responsibilities for
   configuration management of major system improvements in NWS programs
   are established by the appropriate program manager. The scope of
   configuration management defined in this document includes only those
   NWS-commissioned operational systems so authorized by the NWS
   Configuration Management Board. The most significant aspects of the
   chapter are summarized below:

           a. All references to "Change Management" and "Change Management
   Board" have been retitled "Configuration Management" and "Configuration
   Management Board" respectively, to reflect standard Government and
   industry naming conventions.

           b. Redefines the scope of NWS Configuration Management for all
   NWS-commissioned operational systems.

           c. Redefines the roles and responsibilities for management of
   the NWS Configuration Management process at the national, regional, and
   site levels.

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   Cancels WSOM Chapter A-21, transmittal issuance 83-23, dated December
   30, 1983.


   Elbert W. Friday, Jr.
   Assistant Administrator
   for Weather Services
     __________________________________________________________________

            NWS CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT FOR OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS

   Table of Contents:

     1. Purpose

     2. Definitions

     3. Scope of Configuration Management

     4. Configuration Management Events
             4.1 Configuration Identification
             4.2 Configuration Baseline
             4.3 Configuration Documentation
             4.4 Change Initiation
             4.5 Change Administration
             4.6 Change Review
             4.7 Change Implementation
             4.8 Change Verification
             4.9 Configuration Modification
             4.10 Configuration Validation

     5. Authorities, Roles, and Responsibilities

     5.1 National Headquarters
             5.1.1 Assistant Administrator for Weather Services
             5.1.2 NWS Configuration Management Board
             5.1.3 Director, Office of Systems Operations
             5.1.4 Systems Integration Manager
             5.1.5 Systems Configuration Manager
             5.1.6 Systems Change Manager
             5.1.7 Office Directors
             5.1.8 Office Program Focal Point
             5.1.9 Special Review Groups
             5.1.10 Implementation Focal Point
     5.2 Regional Headquarters
             5.2.1 Regional Director
             5.2.2 NWS Regional Systems Manager
     5.3 Field Offices

     6. Configuration Management Procedures Handbook

   Exhibit:

     A-21-1 NWS Configuration Management Events

   Appendices:

     A - NWS Configuration Management Board Terms of Reference

     B - Data Review Group Terms of Reference
     __________________________________________________________________

   1. Purpose. This chapter establishes policy and defines the
   organizational roles and responsibilities for the Configuration
   Management (CM) of the National Weather Service's (NWS) commissioned,
   operational systems that collect, process, or disseminate weather data
   and service products.

   2. Definitions. CM is a discipline applying technical and
   administrative direction and surveillance to identify and document the
   functional and physical characteristics of a system, control changes to
   those characteristics, and record and report the status of change
   processing and implementation.

   A system is defined as the integrated physical and logical elements,
   including facility, hardware, software, communications, and
   documentation, that meet or define a set of functional specifications
   based on established service requirements related to the collection,
   processing, and/or dissemination of weather data and service products.

   A new system becomes operational when it has successfully completed a
   formal test in a field environment coordinated by or through the Office
   of Systems Operations (OSO) and has been formally commissioned by the
   NWS.

   Configuration identification is the compilation and formal release of
   complete technical documentation which defines the original approved
   configuration (baseline). It also defines and documents approved
   changes to the individual configuration items. Configuration
   identification assures that all elements of a system's configuration
   and its supporting documentation are related to ensure continued
   integrity and compatibility for the operational life of the system.

   A baseline is an approved reference point for control of future changes
   to the form, fit, or function of a particular system.

   Configuration control is the systematic evaluation, coordination, and
   approval or disapproval of proposed changes to the design and
   construction of a baseline item whose configuration has been formally
   approved. Configuration control begins in the initial phase of the
   operation and continues through the operational life of the system.

   Proposed changes (i.e., Requests for Change) are classified as "major"
   or "minor." Requests for Change which require changes to operational
   NWS system program schedules, which require significant expenditure of
   resources, or are controversial in nature, are usually referred to as
   "major" changes. Requests for Change that do not meet any of the
   criteria for "major" changes are referred to as "minor" changes.

   Configuration accounting is the creation of accurate information on the
   status of a system or any of its discrete parts which satisfies an end
   use function and is designated for CM. This reporting activity
   continues during the operational life of the item, continuously
   reflecting changes authorized for implementation. Configuration status
   accounting establishes records that include the location of an element,
   its identification by part number and sometimes by serial number, and
   its current modification status. This information is necessary for
   proper management of a system and to support engineering, logistics,
   and maintenance operations.

   Configuration validation is the process of verification of a system's
   configuration items as to their documentation, specifications,
   drawings, and requirements.

   3. Scope of Configuration Management. CM shall be applied to those
   systems, so authorized by the NWS Configuration Management Board (CMB)
   (see section 5.1.2), that are newly commissioned operational systems
   and to those existing operational systems that are expected to continue
   in the modernized NWS. For these systems, the NWS CM discipline shall
   encompass:

           a. All configuration items that comprise the physical or
   logical elements of any operational NWS field system, including
   facilities, hardware, software, communications, and documentation:

     - Facilities include system floor plans or physical layout, power
     specifications, grounding specifications,
             and air conditioning.

     - Hardware comprises data input, processing, storage, and output
     devices; cables; and communication
             equipment.

     - Software comprises the operating system, utility programs, firm
     ware, algorithms, and data base
             management functions.

     - Communications includes the physical network, the data/products
     that are routed through the network,
             and those directories or schedules that manage the additions
     and deletions of data products.

     - Documentation includes system designs, specifications, drawings,
     technical manuals, test procedures,
             directories, and parts lists.

           b. All direct interfaces from any commissioned, operational NWS
   field subsystem to a system already under the NWS CM discipline shall
   automatically come under NWS CM. Changes to the established
   configuration items of the subsystem shall follow the CM policies and
   procedures established for the system it directly interfaces.

           c. Operational systems funded and maintained by the NWS regions
   that are interfaced to a system under the NWS CM discipline shall be
   subject to NWS CM policies and procedures for their communications
   interface and those products transmitted over that interface to the
   host NWS CM system. Any candidate system for NWS CM requiring unique
   policies and procedures shall require formal approval of the NWS CMB.
   Prerequisites for approval include a "Terms of Reference" document
   listing the CM policies and procedural guidelines applicable to that
   system, a definition of the CM baseline elements, the approval
   authority for proposed changes to each class of baseline elements, and
   the establishment of appropriate CM data bases.

   4. Configuration Management Events. The CM process requires that
   approval be given before a change is implemented to a system under CM
   control. The events that occur during the CM process are presented as
   Exhibit A-21-1, "NWS Configuration Management Events." The major events
   in this process are:

           a. Configuration Identification -- from the initial definition
   of design through physical identification of as-built parts,
   subassemblies, assemblies, and facilities, as well as the assignment of
   CM identifiers and unique serial numbers.

           b. Configuration Baseline -- from configuration identification
   through the establishment and maintenance of a systematic automated
   data base of the baselines comprising a system.

           c. Configuration Documentation -- from the creation through
   formal release to routine maintenance of the technical documentation,
   including specifications, drawings, and parts lists.

           d. Change Initiation -- from change concept through
   coordination to submission of the Request for Change.

           e. Change Administration -- from submission of the Request for
   Change through analysis and cataloging to distribution for review.

           f. Change Review -- from distribution of the Request for Change
   for review through the review decision.

           g. Change Implementation -- from decision through planning,
   procurement, development, test and evaluation, production, and
   implementation.

           h. Change Verification -- from implementation of the change
   through verification that the change was implemented.

           i. Configuration Modification -- from initial baseline
   configuration through approved change or repair replacement transaction
   in the automated data base.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [a211.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

           j. Configuration Validation -- from initial identification of
   site-specific configuration through field site validation of existing
   baseline items, approved modifications, approved deviation or waiver,
   and repair depot transactions.

   The following sections establish the policies for each phase of the CM
   process.

   4.1 Configuration Identification. Configuration items, their components
   and parts, shall be identified uniquely by part number, configuration
   item number, and serial number or, in the case of software, by
   assembled modules, modules, and source elements. Newly commissioned,
   operational NWS systems must provide acceptance requirements,
   specifications, engineering drawings and lists, technical manuals,
   initial site and depot spares, and approved configuration
   identification records as part of the deliverable items when
   commissioned. The proper level of identification and serialization
   shall be determined as an element of the system's acceptance testing.

   For those existing operational systems that are approved for the NWS CM
   discipline, CM baseline components and parts shall be identified,
   inventoried, documented, and assigned unique identifiers for
   configuration item baseline control.

   4.2 Configuration Baseline. Configuration baselines shall be developed
   containing each configuration item comprising the physical and logical
   elements of a commissioned, operational NWS system. Each configuration
   item shall be tabulated in relation to the item's higher assembly. This
   structure shall be established in an automated NWS CM relational data
   base system as the definitive current configuration baseline.

   4.3 Configuration Documentation. All documentation, including design
   requirements, specifications, engineering drawings, software
   documentation, and parts lists shall be retained in the CM Technical
   Reference Library and, where appropriate, entered into an automated NWS
   CM data base. The original physical document (e.g., paper copy,
   magnetic tape, disk cartridge) and any subsequent modifications shall
   be maintained in the NWS CM Technical Reference Library.

   4.4 Change Initiation. Changes to an operational NWS system shall be
   governed by the level of approval authority (local, regional, or
   national) for the requested action as defined in the policies and
   procedures for the specific system (see NWS Configuration Management
   Procedures Handbook, Chapter 6, "Systems Controlled by Configuration
   Management," specific system approval authority matrix). Notification
   of all approved changes at any level shall be forwarded to the next
   higher approval authority, as specified. A formal Request for Change
   shall be submitted whenever the requested action will result in a
   change (i.e., form, fit, or function) to a baseline element of an
   operational NWS system that is not under the control of the local or
   regional authority. The change must be documented on a standard Request
   for Change form and must include the details necessary for a reviewer
   to make an informed decision on the change.

   Changes initiated to solve emergencies may be implemented as necessary
   but only in the framework of established standard operating procedures,
   guidelines, or policy for the specific system. Immediate notification
   to the proper authority of these emergency changes is required. The
   proper authority for notification shall be defined by the specific
   system approval authority matrix. The approval for emergency changes
   will be valid only during the resolution of the emergency. Chronic
   problems must be resolved through a Request for Change.

   Requests for Change can be initiated within the NWS at field, regional
   headquarters, and national Headquarters offices. Requests initiated at
   River Forecast Centers (RFC) shall be reviewed by the hydrologist in
   charge (HIC); requests initiated by Weather Service Offices (WSO) and
   Weather Service Forecast Offices (WSFO) shall be reviewed by the area
   manager (AM) who is the WSFO meteorologist in charge (MIC). These
   requests shall be transmitted to the regional systems manager (RSM) for
   proper coordination (see section 5.2.2) with other field, regional
   headquarters, and national Headquarters offices, as appropriate. The
   Regional Director, or designee signing for the Regional Director, shall
   approve all Requests for Change for transmittal to the Systems
   Integration Manager (SIM) for formal review and decision (see section
   5.1.4).

   Requests for Change initiated by an NWS Headquarters office, or an NWS
   Center within an NWS Headquarters office, shall be coordinated by that
   office's NWS focal point with the office's divisions. The Office
   Director, or designee signing for the Office Director, shall approve
   the Request for Change for transmittal to the SIM for formal review and
   decision.

   Requests for Change initiated outside the NWS shall be prepared for
   submission to the NWS CM process by the receiving NWS office and
   forwarded along normal organizational channels to the NWS Headquarters
   for formal review and decision by the appropriate authority level as
   defined by the specific system approval authority matrix.

   4.5 Change Administration. A Request for Change shall be classified as
   a "major" change or a "minor" change. A Request for Change of a
   specialized nature (i.e., requiring specific expertise) shall be
   assigned the responsibility of a special CM review group (see section
   5.1.9).

   Each Request for Change form shall be cataloged in the automated CM
   data base. The Request for Change shall be examined to ensure that all
   information, necessary for the reviewers to understand the change, is
   included. Additional information shall be solicited from the requester
   and others and analyzed, as appropriate.

   The formal review process shall be determined by the following
   criteria:

           a. Requests for Change that follow preestablished policy (i.e.,
   precedent set by prior Requests for Change) shall be reviewed for
   technical adherence to the policy only.

           b. Requests for Change that are deemed "minor" shall be
   distributed to special focal areas for review and recommendation.

           c. Requests for Change of a specialized nature shall be
   distributed to the appropriate special CM review group chairman and
   each member of that group. For example, Requests for Change for data
   products shall be distributed to the Data Review Group (see appendix
   B).

           d. Requests for Change that are deemed "major" shall be
   distributed to all NWS Headquarters offices and regions for review and
   recommendation.

   4.6 Change Review. All Requests for Change that are distributed for
   review shall be assigned a return date for recommendation. The reviewer
   is expected to provide detailed comments resulting from a thorough
   review related to his/her area of technical expertise. If a coordinated
   action cannot be determined from this review, the Request for Change
   shall be prepared for review by the NWS CMB. Requests for Change
   requiring the NWS CMB's action shall be presented with background
   information, a summary of the reviews, and a recommended course of
   action.

   When a Request for Change is not scheduled for CMB action, the NWS CMB
   shall be informed of the action taken. The information shall be
   transmitted to the CMB in a report issued biannually. The report shall
   also catalog the Requests for Change that are in review.

   A formal NWS CMB meeting shall be convened for those "major" Requests
   for Change that cannot be resolved based on the recommendations
   presented to the CMB. Requests for Change which cannot be resolved by
   the CMB will be brought to the attention of the Assistant Administrator
   for Weather Services.

   4.7 Change Implementation. Implementation of changes approved by the
   CMB shall be performed as directed by the CMB. All other changes shall
   be acted upon by the SIM or by the appropriate offices through
   agreement with the SIM. The originator of a Request for Change shall be
   notified when it has been either approved or rejected. Notification of
   approval or rejection of each Request for Change shall be through
   memorandum transmitted to the requesting office or regional director.
   Notification of approval or rejection of "major" changes shall occur by
   memorandum upon acceptance of the CMB meeting minutes by the CMB
   members.

   Notification of approval or rejection of "minor" changes shall occur by
   memorandum upon formulation of the decision and coordination with
   affected offices. Notification of approval or rejection of special CM
   review group items shall occur by memorandum upon action by the
   appropriate special CM review group.

   The Systems Integration Division (SID) shall coordinate the necessary
   actions for the implementation of all approved changes. The
   notification of approval memorandum shall contain the identification of
   the focal point for implementation of the change actions, an outline of
   the actions to be taken to implement the change, and the organizational
   element responsible for the performance of the actions. Data product
   changes shall be announced to the field in an NWS administrative
   message (e.g., Change Notice or GENOT) prior to the time of
   implementation.

   4.8 Change Verification. A verification process shall occur to
   determine that the change has been implemented as defined. Verification
   of the change action of "major" and "minor" Requests for Change shall
   be performed by the implementation focal point using existing
   information systems as the data source whenever possible. The
   implementation focal point will usually be a SID staff member or RSM in
   the case of "major" and "minor" changes, and a review group member in
   the case of special OM review group changes. This verification
   completion shall be reported to the Systems Change Manager, who is
   responsible for the maintenance of the Request for Change information
   system. When the implemented change cannot be verified through existing
   information systems, the coordinator shall contact the originator of
   the Request for Change to solicit the verification data.

   4.9 Configuration Modification. When the change has been verified, the
   baseline configuration items shall be changed in the automated data
   bases to reflect the approved change. The status code of the Request
   for Change in the CM information system shall indicate the completion
   date.

   A current accounting of all configuration items, their locations, part
   numbers, serial numbers, and modification status, shall be reported
   routinely and available to users upon demand.

   4.10 Configuration Validation. Several integrated report processes
   shall be performed routinely to provide a methodical update to CM data
   from information supplied by National Logistics Supply Center
   transactions, various Engineering Division automated inventory
   processes, and approved configuration changes. Periodic validations
   augment these processes to provide a definitive configuration baseline.
   These validations shall be initiated by the creation and transmission
   of configuration baseline validation packages to selected field
   offices, centers, or NWS Headquarters focal points for verification.
   These validation packages shall include a status accounting of all
   approved site-specific configuration changes for review.

   5. Authorities, Roles, and Responsibilities. This section describes the
   authorities, roles, and responsibilities for the CM of operational NWS
   systems at the national, regional, and local levels.

   5.1 National Headquarters. At the national Headquarters level, the
   major NWS CM functions are executed by the Assistant Administrator for
   Weather Services; the Director, OSO; the SIM; the Systems Configuration
   Manager; the Systems Change Manager; the office directors; and the
   office focal points.

   5.1.1 Assistant Administrator for Weather Services. The Assistant
   Administrator for Weather Services is the authorizing official for NWS
   CM. The Assistant Administrator shall be the ultimate approval
   authority for: (1) the establishment of any changes to the CM process
   within the NWS and (2) changes that have a major impact on service
   requirements, the NWS organization, NWS budget, or previously approved
   program schedules and those changes that cannot be resolved by the NWS
   CMB.

   5.1.2 NWS Configuration Management Board. The CMB has been established
   by the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services to govern the NWS
   CM program; he has delegated authority to that body to ensure the
   proper management of the NWS CM process. The Assistant Administrator
   for Weather Services has redelegated authority to the CMB for the
   integration of additional systems to the NWS CM process. To provide
   maximum breadth of responsibility and authority, the CMB comprises the
   NWS Headquarters office directors and the NWS regional directors and
   reports to the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services. The
   Director, OSO (see section 5.1.3), chairs the CMB.

   Specific responsibilities of the CMB are:

           a. Authorizes the inclusion of an NWS system under the
   provisions of the NWS CM process.

           b. Establishes specialized management mechanisms for handling
   recurring CM tasks or functions (e.g., administrative management and
   review groups).

           c. Reviews CM activities, according to its discretion, and
   redirects activities, if appropriate.

           d. Allocates resources (staff, funds, and facilities) necessary
   to accomplish all tasks assigned by the CMB.

           e. Defines and clarifies CM roles and responsibilities within
   the NWS.

           f. Reviews and acts upon "major" Requests for Change.

           g. Resolves any "minor" Requests for Change that cannot be
   resolved by the SIM (see section 5.1.4).

           h. Recommends options for any changes that significantly affect
   service requirements, NWS organization, budget, or a previously
   approved CM change to the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services.

           i. Refers decisions on "major" Requests for Change which the
   CMB cannot resolve to the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services.

           j. Ensures proper documentation of CMB decisions on Requests
   for Change and issues presented for action.

           k. Approves transmittal of any Request for Change originating
   within the respective office or region.

           l. Designates the CM focal point or RSM, as appropriate.

           m. Designates representatives to serve on formal CM review
   groups, as appropriate.

   The terms of reference governing the activities of the CMB are
   presented as Appendix A, "NWS Configuration Management Board Terms of
   Reference." Those terms of reference are supplemented by this chapter.

   5.1.3 Director, Office of Systems Operations. The Assistant
   Administrator for Weather Services has delegated authority for the
   management of operational NWS systems to the Director, OSO (W/OSO).

   Specific responsibilities of the Director, OSO, with respect to CM are:

           a. Serves as chairman of the CMB. Informs the Assistant
   Administrator for Weather Services of any major issues that cannot be
   resolved by the Board.

           b. Approves the issuance and changes to the NWS Configuration
   Management Procedures Handbook (see section 6).

   5.1.4 Systems Integration Manager. The CMB has redelegated authority to
   the SIM to act as its agent, across organizational lines, for the
   general management of all Requests for Change to commissioned,
   operational NWS systems. The SIM is the Chief, SID (W/OSO1).

   Specific responsibilities of the SIM with respect to CM are:

           a. Manages, coordinates, and tracks the configuration control
   process.

           b. Receives all formal CM Requests for Change.

           c. Analyzes and evaluates Requests for Change in terms of
   potential effects on resources, service requirements, and the NWS
   organization.

           d. Classifies formal Requests for Change as "minor" or "major."
   (These decisions may be reviewed at the discretion of the CMB.)

           e. Approves "minor" Requests for Change. "Minor" Requests for
   Change do not require CMB approval but must be approved by the SIM
   before action or implementation is initiated.

           f. Recommends action to the CMB for "major" Requests for
   Change.

   5.1.5 Systems Configuration Manager. The SIM has delegated the
   authority for the operation of the configuration identification,
   configuration baseline modification, and configuration validation
   processes to the Systems Configuration Manager. The Systems
   Configuration Manager is also the Chief, Configuration Management
   Section (W/OSO113).

   Specific responsibilities of the Systems Configuration Manager with
   respect to CM are:

           a. Applies consistent and systematic methods to the
   identification of facilities, hardware, software, and communications
   items, and the identification of baselines, as well as documents,
   drawings, and data lists that support and define precise system
   baselines.

           b. Designs an integrated record system containing configuration
   identification data.

           c. Issues configuration identification numbers for items under
   a standard controlled process.

           d. Receives, itemizes, processes, and maintains configuration
   item transactions (deliverables, sparing, approved changes, and
   engineering modifications) in an automated on-line data base.

           e. Maintains appropriate data files within the automated data
   base that record significant data on parts lists, specifications,
   engineering change proposals, specification control drawings, data
   lists, and other technical procedures or manuals.

           f. Compiles and publishes configuration reports, including
   baseline reports, to the format and schedule specified by the SID, CMB,
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, General Services
   Administration, or system contractors.

           g. Initiates periodic validations of configuration baseline
   items at system sites to maintain the quality of the baseline data base
   and the definitive facility design manual of each site.

   5.1.6 Systems Change Manager. The SIM has delegated the authority for
   the operation of the change control process to the Systems Change
   Manager. The Systems Change Manager is also the Chief, Change
   Management Section (W/OSO112).

   Specific responsibilities of the Systems Change Manager with respect to
   configuration management are:

           a. Receives Requests for Change from the SIM and verifies that
   they contain adequate information.

           b. Requests additional detail from the originator if the
   information provided is incomplete.

           c. Analyzes the Request for Change to determine its effect on
   hardware, software, communications, procedures, the significance of the
   resources required, the areas of technical expertise, and interactions
   with other systems.

           d. Coordinates the design of alternative approaches to satisfy
   requirements stated in the Request for Change. Provides rationale and
   decision parameters to enable evaluators to select the best approach.
   Coordinates the cost information for each of the alternatives.

           e. Specifies test plans and procedures to evaluate the selected
   approach. Coordinates the performance of the test with the technical
   experts and the field, or central test sites and other systems, the
   collection of test data, and the preparation of the test report.

           f. Distributes Requests for Change to regions and offices for
   review and recommendation.

           g. Performs secretariat functions for the CMB, including
   scheduling meetings, preparing the agenda and supporting information,
   assisting the chairman in the conduct of meetings, and preparing and
   distributing meeting minutes.

           h. Prepares memoranda of notification of approval or rejection
   of Requests for Change, prepares implementation status information,
   maintains the Request for Change information system, and verifies
   completed changes.

           i. Provides limited administrative support to special CM review
   groups.

   5.1.7 Office Directors. The Directors of the offices of Meteorology
   (OM), Hydrology (OH), Systems Development (OSD), and Systems Operations
   (OSO), Management and Budget (MB), the Transition Program Office (TPO),
   and the National Meteorological Center (NMC) are voting members of the
   NWS CMB. Office directors have the responsibility for approval of each
   Request for Change originating within their office and for transmittal
   of approved Requests for Change to the SIM.

   5.1.8 Office Program Focal Point. Program focal points for OM, OH, OSD,
   OSO; MB, TPO, and NMC shall be designated by each office's director.
   Focal points shall serve as the working level contact point for their
   office for all Requests for Change concerning operational systems under
   CM. All Requests for Change originated by an office shall be reviewed
   and coordinated at the office level by the focal point. All coordinated
   Requests for Change shall be submitted by the focal point to the
   office's director for approval.

   The focal point shall be responsible for the coordination and tracking
   of Requests for Change received from the Systems Change Manager for
   review.  The focal point shall be responsible for submitting the
   coordinated recommendation of the office to the Systems Change Manager
   for each Request for Change. The focal point shall assist in
   determining national applicability of a Request for Change and shall
   coordinate this applicability with the regions. The focal point is,
   therefore, a key element in the interface between national Headquarters
   and the regions and is vital to the successful performance of the CM
   process.

   5.1.9 Special Review Groups. Special CM review groups may be
   established by the CMB to provide an orderly, logical, and expeditious
   review and processing of Requests for Change where specific technical
   expertise is required. These groups shall be comprised of
   representatives who provide maximum breadth of responsibility and depth
   of technical expertise and shall be directed by a group chairman.

   Each of these groups receives its administrative direction from the SIM
   and receives the Requests for Change from the Systems Change Manager
   only.

   The terms of reference governing the activities of these groups shall
   be approved by the CMB and provided as appendices to this document.
   Appendix B, for example, is the "Data Review Group Terms of Reference."

   5.1.10 Implementation Focal Point. The implementation focal point
   designated in the Request for Change approval memorandum shall carry
   out the action(s) assigned and report the completion of the change to
   the Systems Change Manager.

   5.2 Regional Headquarters. At the regional headquarters level, the
   major NWS CM roles shall be assumed by the regional director and the
   NWS RSM (see section 5.2.2). The NWS RSM is also the (regional) Chief,
   Systems Operations Division or designee, acting and signing for the
   Chief, Systems Operations Division.

   5.2.1 Regional Director. The regional directors shall be voting members
   of the NWS CMB. In the absence of the regional director, the deputy
   regional director may serve as the CMB voting member. Regional
   directors or designees signing for the director, shall be responsible
   for the approval of each Request for Change originating in their
   region. Approved Requests for Change shall be transmitted to the SIM.

   5.2.2 NWS Regional Systems Manager. The RSM is delegated regional
   responsibility and authority for system operations and support
   activities. The RSM serves as the regional focal point for Requests for
   Change. All Requests for Change originated by an NWS field office shall
   be reviewed and coordinated by the RSM with other field offices and
   regional headquarters offices, as appropriate. Requests for Change
   involving RFC-unique software, hardware, or data products shall be
   reviewed by the regional hydrologist and coordinated at the regional
   level by the RSM of the region. All coordinated Requests for Change
   shall be submitted by the RSM to the regional director for approval.

   The RSM shall be responsible for the coordination and tracking of
   Requests for Change received from the Systems Change Manager for
   regional review. The RSM shall be responsible for submitting the
   coordinated recommendation of the region for each Request for Change to
   the Systems Change Manager. The RSM is a key element in the interface
   between national Headquarters and the regions and is vital to the
   successful performance of the CM process. The RSM shall be responsible
   for regional adherence to CM policies and procedures.

   The RSM shall be responsible for the timely review and return to the
   Systems Configuration Manager of completed validation packages received
   from the AM.

   Other responsibilities of the RSM are enumerated in Chapter A-20.

   5.3 Field Offices. The field office HIC or AM is responsible for the
   initial review and transmittal of all Requests for Change to the RSM.
   The HIC or AM is responsible for the field office's adherence to CM
   policy and procedures.

   Periodic configuration baseline validation packages issued by the
   Systems Configuration Manager shall be given a timely response. The
   details of these packages shall be thoroughly coordinated by the HIC or
   AM to ensure that the validation reflects an accurate up-to-date
   accounting of the configuration baseline. The HIC or AM shall return
   the validation package, with annotated corrections, to the RSM for
   review and forwarding to the Systems Configuration Manager.

   6. Configuration Management Procedures Handbook. NWS CM for operational
   systems procedures for, and a description of, each authorized system's
   CM baseline elements shall be included in a National Weather Service
   Office of Systems Operations Configuration Management for Operational
   Systems Procedures Handbook. The handbook shall specifically include
   standard CM procedures applicable to all operational systems; document
   the CM subsystems (i.e., data base management system, forms,
   specialized procedures, and associated activities) required in the
   daily administration of the CM process; provide a broad description of
   the functions, configuration, and location of each component system;
   and provide a matrix of the baseline elements and depiction of the
   approval authority for changes to each class of baseline elements.

   The approval and issuance of changes to this handbook remain the
   responsibility of the Director, OSO.
     __________________________________________________________________

   APPENDIX A

                     NWS CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT BOARD

                             TERMS OF REFERENCE

                          Revised November 25, 1987

   A. Purpose

           The purpose of the National Weather Service (NWS) Configuration
   Management Board (CMB) is to organize and manage the development and
   operation of a configuration management program for the NWS.

   B. Composition

           The members of the CMB are the Directors of the NWS Office of
   Meteorology, Office of Hydrology, Office of Systems Development, Office
   of Systems Operations, National Meteorological Center, Transition
   Program Office, Management and Budget Office, and the Directors of all
   NWS regions. The Chairman is the Director, Office of Systems
   Operations.

   C. Functions

           The functions of the CMB encompass those necessary to
   accomplish its purpose, including explicitly:

   1. Identifying all major tasks that are essential to effective
   management of NWS changes and clarifying the responsibility and
   authority within the NWS for these tasks.

   2. Establishing specialized management mechanisms necessary to
   accomplish recurring tasks or functions, including NWS configuration
   management.

   3. Serving as the governing body for NWS configuration control.

   4. Allocating the resources (staff, funds, and facilities) necessary to
   accomplish all tasks assigned by the CMB or, if required resources are
   unavailable, requesting and justifying additional resources.

   5. Documenting and reporting all major decisions and their rationale.

   6. Recommending changes that have a major effect on service
   requirements, the NWS organization, NWS budget, or previously approved
   NWS schedule to the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services.

   7. Referring any major issues that cannot be resolved by the CMB to the
   Assistant Administrator for Weather Services.

   D. Operating Rules and Procedures

   The CMB will operate under the following rules and procedures:

   1. Members are expected to participate personally and normally will not
   designate an alternate to represent them at meetings. If this should be
   necessary, the alternate will be delegated full authority.

   2. The CMB will operate on the basis of consensus; any member can
   insist on the resolution of an issue by the Assistant Administrator for
   Weather Services. The chairman will obtain the resolution.

   3. Meetings of the CMB will be announced at least 2 weeks in advance,
   longer if possible, and an agenda and brief summary of major issues to
   be decided or discussed will be provided at that time.

   4. The chairman, in consultation with members of the CMB, will invite
   other persons to participate in each CMB meeting as is necessary to
   facilitate the work planned for that session.

   5. The CMB will identify any continuing staff roles needed to support
   its work and will designate appropriate persons from within their
   offices to carry out these roles.

   6. Written summaries of major decisions will be submitted to members
   for approval before further distribution, normally within 1 week after
   the meeting unless the CMB allocates a longer period to allow time for
   required staff work. Decisions will go into effect, with necessary
   corrections or clarifications, 1 week after such submissions for final
   approval.
     __________________________________________________________________

   APPENDIX B

                              DATA REVIEW GROUP

                             TERMS OF REFERENCE

                          Revised November 25, 1987

   A. Purpose

   The purpose of the Data Review Group (DRG) is to provide for an
   orderly, logical, and expeditious review and processing of Requests for
   Change to data products on communication systems under NWS
   Configuration Management.

   B. Authority

   The National Weather Service (NWS) Configuration Management Board (CMB)
   has authorized the establishment of the DRG under the administrative
   control of the Systems Integration Manager (SIM), who is the Chief,
   Systems Integration Division, Office of Systems Operations. The DRG is
   authorized to approve or reject Requests for Change affecting data
   products which have been referred to the group by the SIM. The DRG will
   return those requests that require a change in NWS policy or new
   budgetary support to the SIM for referral to the CMB.

   The determination of the scientific merit of new products (those in
   development or having just completed development and checkout) remains
   with the Committee on Analysis and Forecast Technique Implementation
   (CAFTI). Requests for Change for new products are referred to the DRG
   after CAFTI recommendations are approved by the Director, Office of
   Meteorology (OM), and/or the Director, Office of Hydrology (OH).

   The validation of requirements for product changes remains the
   authority of the OM and/or OH. Requests that involve new or changing
   requirements are referred to the DRG after the validation of
   requirements is reviewed by the Meteorological Requirements Review
   Group and approved by the Director, OM, and/or the Director, OH.

   The distribution of data products over the Family of Services (FOS)
   network remains the authority of the FOS Internal Review Committee
   (IRC). The OM and the Office of Systems Operations' Telecommunications
   and Dissemination Branch represent the interests of the FOS IRC on the
   DRG.

   C. Composition

   The DRG will be composed of at least one member from the OM, OH,
   National Meteorological Center, Office of Systems Development, and
   Office of Systems Operations, selected by those organizational
   elements. The group will not exceed 10 members. The office of chairman
   will be rotated through each represented office on an annual basis. The
   term of the chairman will begin at the start of each fiscal year. Any
   office may pass its turn to provide a chairman.

   D. Functions

   The functions of the DRG are those necessary for effective and
   efficient management of data products. These functions include, but are
   not limited to, the following:

   1. Review requested changes to determine the feasibility of their
   implementation.

   2. Provide thorough coordination with the members' offices before and
   after decisions by the group, each member being responsible for such
   coordination and prepared to brief the group, as necessary.

   3. Return requests to originators and request additional information
   and/or supporting rationale whenever necessary.

   4. Approve or reject requests that fall within the purview of the
   group.

   5. Inform the SIM through memorandum of decisions taken by the group
   together with the accompanying rationale for each.

   6. Inform the SIM through memorandum of tasks to be performed as a
   result of decisions taken by the group.

   7. Return requests upon which the group cannot agree and requests which
   are determined to severely impact the system to the SIM for
   consideration by the CMB.

   E. Operating Rules and Procedures

   The DRG will operate under the following rules and procedures:

   1. Members are expected to participate personally and normally will not
   designate an alternate to represent them at meetings. If an alternate
   is necessary, the alternate will be delegated full authority. If a
   member cannot attend a meeting or arrange for an alternate, the
   representative may give the chairman an instructed proxy, and should
   provide a summary to the DRG Chairman on the status of items assigned
   to the representative.

   2. A quorum will consist of 50 percent of the membership of the group
   representing at least three of the offices. Proxies to be voted by the
   chairman will not count in establishing a quorum.

   3. The group will operate on the basis of majority rule but will strive
   for unanimity.

   4. The schedule for regular meetings of the group will depend on their
   work load, timeliness, and other considerations and will be at the
   discretion of the chairman. An agenda and brief summary of major issues
   to be decided or discussed will be provided at least 7 working days in
   advance.

   5. The chairman, in consultation with members of the group, will invite
   other persons to attend any group meeting as deemed useful to the work
   of the group.

   6. All Requests for Change to data products are to be submitted to the
   SIM. Upon receipt at the SIM office, they will be logged and
   distributed to the DRG members for review.

   7. Written summaries of major decisions will be submitted to members
   for approval before becoming final, as part of the meeting minutes.
   These summaries will be issued within 1 week after the meeting unless a
   longer time is necessary for required staff work. Decisions will become
   effective immediately following final approval.

   8. Requests for Change which correct simple errors may be approved by
   chairman between meetings and documented at the next meeting.

   WSOM Issuance
   89-9-10-20-88
