http://tuts.cit.nih.gov/powerlook_vargas/index.html

                          PowerLook 3000 user tutorial

Introductory notes

   The UMAX PowerLook 3000 is a high-resolution flatbed scanner capable of
   scanning both reflective and transparent media at resolutions of up to
   3000 dots per inch. This high resolution allows users to enlarge small
   sections of an image, as well as scan slides at page-sized
   enlargements. (As always, try to determine your smallest necessary
   resolution to avoid creation of overly-large scans.)

   It uses an unique scanner bed that moves across the light source,
   compared to most flatbed scanners where the light source moves across
   the bed. When scanning reflective media, a special rubberized pad is
   used to hold the media flat while the bed moves. For transparent media,
   different media holders are available; x-ray films should be able to
   stay flat while the bed moves through the slot in the front of the
   scanner. Note that this moving bed requires that scanned items be thin
   and flat. Otherwise, movement through the slot will be impaired,
   possibly damaging the scanner.

   When scanning 35mm slides, a special tray is used to hold up to six
   slides at a time. The scanner is supposed to auto-detect slides and
   select the correct areas of the scanning bed. Unfortunately, if a slide
   is dark or underexposed, auto-detection cannot differentiate between
   the slide frame and the slide itself. The user may need to manually
   select the correct area.

   The PowerLook scanner is often used in pre-press houses where color
   correction is very important. As such, the PowerLook goes through a
   calibration routine before each scan. Unfortunately, this calibration
   step takes a fair amount of time, and is performed before each scan.
   Patience is a virtue.

Scanner software

   The PowerLook comes with a Photoshop plug-in for scanning jobs directly
   into Photoshop. It also comes with color correction software from
   Binuscan. Both programs use a similar interface for setting resolution
   and color depth of the scanner.

   When you select the UMAX plug-in from Photoshop's File->Import menu, or
   you select Acquire from the Binuscan software, four windows are
   displayed: the Scanner Control window, the Scan Job List window, the
   Info window, and the Preview Image window. Descriptions of each window
   follows.

  Scanner Control Window

   [scannerctrl.gif] When accessing this window from Photoshop, use the
   Manual Control setting. Selecting MagicMatch will give an error, and
   using the Binuscan software is best done by launching the Binuscan
   software directly.

   The first pop-up menu selects the type of media being scanned:
   reflective, transparent (positive or negative), or one of the special
   transparency holder trays. Selecting one of the holder trays without
   using that holder results in an error.

   The second and third pop-up menus select the color depth and resolution
   of the scan, using the dimensions set in the Preview Image window. For
   example, selecting 600 dpi and setting the Preview Image dimensions to
   4" x 5" results in a 4" x 5" 600 dpi scan, regardless of the size of
   the selection made in the Preview Image window. If the final scan is
   set to a large size from a small selected area, you may end up
   surpassing the optical resolution of the scanner.

   The fourth and fifth pop-up menus allow you to set descreening options
   (when scanning in images that have already been printed using a
   halftone screen, such as photos in a magazine or journal) and unsharp
   masking (for images that are blurry).

   The bottom section is only visible when "Manual Control" is selected.
   Selecting "Auto" looks at the selected area in the Preview Image
   window, tries to determine the white and black points, and sets them.
   If there are known white and black points in the image, you may obtain
   better results by setting them yourself with the white/black point
   droppers in the Preview Image window.

  Scan Job List window

   [scanjoblist.gif] Like the Microtek Scanmaker III software, the UMAX
   software allows you to select different areas of the flatbed and scan
   them with different settings, creating multiple files. Each area
   selected in the Preview Image window is listed in the Scan Job List
   window. When the Scan button is clicked, each job is scanned and placed
   into a new Photoshop window (or scanned to a file on disk if "Scan to
   File" is selected).

   Jobs can be duplicated, scanned to a particular folder, inspected for
   current settings, or deleted, via the four buttons on the right of the
   Scan Job List window.

   Once jobs have been set up and adjusted, clicking the Scan button will
   scan all jobs in the Scan Job List. With Multiple Scan selected, the
   scanner bed returns to the top and recalibrates between each job. With
   Batch Scan selected, all jobs are scanned in a single scanner pass.
   Batch Scan is a quicker scanning method; however, the Multiple Scan
   option may give better results if settings (brightness, color balance,
   etc.) are significantly different for each job in the list.

  Info window

   [infopalette.gif] The Info Window displays a magnified view of
   individual pixels under the cursor as it is moved over the Preview
   Image. It calculates levels of RGB for each pixel; this can help you
   determine whether a section of your image is suitable for setting the
   white and black point. The X and Y section displays the current X and Y
   pixel coordinate of your cursor. W and H displays the size of the
   current job as well as the degrees of rotation. At the bottom of the
   window, a calculation of your final scan size is displayed.

  Preview Image window

   [previmage_all.gif] The Preview Image window displays the preview scan
   of the material on the scanner bed. This preview is where scanning
   areas are selected and adjusted, thereby adding a job to the Scan Job
   List window. The controls for previewing, selecting, and modifying the
   scan are found at the top, left, and bottom of the Preview Image
   window.

   [previmage_top.gif] The dimensions of the currently selected area are
   displayed at the top of the Preview Image window. Note that these are
   the dimensions of the RESULTING scan, not the dimensions of the
   selection. For instance, although the selected area in the Preview
   Image screen shot above is of a 35mm slide (and therefore approximately
   1" wide), the resulting scan will be 6.5 inches wide. These units can
   be changed via the pop-up menu to the right of the dimensions. To keep
   width and height proportional once a selection has been made, make sure
   they are "chained" together via the chain graphic to their right.
   Clicking on the chain graphic allows the selection to be resized
   freely.

   Clicking the Preview button scans a lower-resolution preview image for
   selecting areas and adjusting scan settings. The Scan button scans all
   jobs in the Scan Job List, and the Quit button exits the scanning
   software.

   The Proof button displays a screen-resolution preview of the currently
   selected job, using the currently selected image modifications
   (adjustments to brightness, contrast, white/black points, sharpening,
   etc.). This can be useful to confirm the modifications you have made
   prior to committing to a lengthy scan.

   [previmage_left.gif] The left bar's top button is for selecting an area
   of the preview to scan (thereby making a Scan Job that is added to the
   Scan Job List). The second button (selection rectangle with a plus
   sign) is for adding additional selections (scan jobs) to the set of
   scans to perform. The third button allows rotation of a particular
   selection, to compensate for incorrectly aligned images.

   The magnifying glass and hand tool allow you to zoom in and scroll
   within the preview image. Double-clicking with the magnifying glass on
   the preview image zooms in to the maximum enlargement possible. Holding
   down the Option key allows you to zoom back out, or double-click to
   return to a "fit in window" display.

   The two eyedroppers allow setting a white and black point respectively.
   As mentioned above, using the Info window to determine lightest and
   darkest points in your preview image can make setting white/black
   points easier.

   The "F/R" button allows you to flip/reverse an image, in the event of
   being placed on the scanning bed incorrectly. This allows you to scan
   the file "right reading" without having to reposition it on the
   scanner. The next button (with the picture of the woman) toggles the
   image between positive and negative.

   [enhancement.gif] The final button brings up an Enhancement palette
   with an array of tools for adjusting brightness, contrast, and color
   balance of an image. The first two tabs work similarly to the Levels
   and Curves commands in Photoshop. The last three tabs allow you to
   adjust the color balance, either via a sampling eyedropper, a color
   wheel selector, or via sliders similar to the Color Balance dialog in
   Photoshop.

   [previmage_bottom.gif] Finally, two controls at the bottom of the
   Preview Image window allow you to select the desired scan resolution of
   the preview, as well as the current magnification of the preview
   window. Setting a higher-resolution preview scan can allow easier
   selection of white/black points and more easily viewed Proofs, but has
   no effect on the resolution of the final scan.
