http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/ppd/bcp/PCH_Advis.cfm

   Public Protection- Attorney General Home Public Protection - Picture
   Public Protection - Grid Public Protection - Search, Sitmap, Contact Us
   Public Protection Press Office Public Education Public Protection
   Criminal Law Special Features

                                   Public
                                 Protection
                                    Home

                                  Antitrust
                                   Section

                        Bureau of Consumer Protection

                                 Charitable
                      Trusts and Organizations Section

                                Civil Rights

                                   Health
                                  Care Unit

                                    Elder
                                 Task Force

                         Tobacco Enforcement Section

                          Health Club Registration

                                   All PPD
                               Complaint Forms


   Bureau of Consumer Protection
   14th Floor Strawberry Square
   Harrisburg, PA  17120
   Phone: 717-787-9707
   Fax:  717-787-1190
   Email:  consumers@attorneygeneral.gov
   Consumer Protection Hotline, Toll-Free Within Pennsylvania:
   1-800-441-2555
   [bullet.jpg] Video Computer Store
      Online Complaint Form
   [bullet.jpg] File a BCP Complaint
   [bullet.jpg] The Health Care Unit (HCU)
   [bullet.jpg] Health Club Registration
      Requirements
   [bullet.jpg] Used Car Checklists
   [bullet.jpg] Hot Tips
   [bullet.jpg] Kids
   [bullet.jpg] Puppy Lemon Law
   [bullet.jpg] LifeSmarts
   [bullet.jpg] Consumer Advisories
   [bullet.jpg] Brochures
   [bullet.jpg] Court Opinion from Judgement
      against Allstate (pdf)

   Publishers Clearing House Settlement

   Consumers may have heard of the recent settlement reached by Attorney
   General Mike Fisher and 25 other states to resolve allegations that the
   Publishers Clearing House (PCH) sweepstakes firm violated various
   consumer protection laws through its promotions for the sale of
   magazines and other goods. This agreement, which upon court approval
   will settle a lawsuit filed by General Fisher's Bureau of Consumer
   Protection against the national marketing company, permanently bans PCH
   from using any false statements regarding a consumer's chance of
   winning a prize. You can view the details of the settlement in our
   Office's Press Release by Clicking Here.

   What Does the Settlement Mean for Me?

   All Pennsylvania consumers will see changes in Publishers Clearing
   House's promotional practices. The company is now prohibited from using
   confusing language that implies a person has won a large prize; from
   implying that a person has been specially selected or is more likely to
   win; and from using gimmicks such as attorney letters, tax advice
   notices, disclosure authorization or other documents which indicate
   that the consumer is close to winning.
   Future mailings must also include a "Prize Data Grid" explaining the
   prizes awarded, the value of each prize and the odds of winning a
   prize.

   What about Restitution?

   The most important part of this settlement is that it halts practices
   Attorney General Fisher believed deceptively convinced consumers that
   they had won a sweepstakes or led them to believe that making a
   purchase would improve their chances of winning. However, it also
   requires that the company pay $1.5 Million in restitution to "high
   activity customers" in Pennsylvania. These payments will help
   compensate the most egregious examples of sweepstakes fraud resulting
   from the company's alleged practices - consumers whose purchases over
   the course of a single year approached thousands of dollars.

   The settling states will use Publishers Clearing House records to
   identify consumers eligible for restitution and those who qualify will
   be contacted directly by their Attorney General. Because the settlement
   agreement and distribution plan must be approved by the courts in the
   states which agreed to the settlement, consumers are asked to be
   patient in awaiting possible restitution.

   This agreement, which establishes unprecedented protections for
   consumers with regard to sweepstakes promotions, is another milestone
   for Attorney General Fisher's Bureau of Consumer Protection, which
   assists consumers on a wide variety of issues.
   If you have a problem relating to a sweepstakes or the purchase of a
   good or service, you can call the Attorney General's Bureau of Consumer
   Protection toll-free HOTLINE number, 1-800-441-2555.
