http://www.ostpxweb.dot.gov/gps/docs/tp_4_5_final.doc

   Potential Interference to GPS from UWB Transmitters: Test Plan --
   Version 4.5 Phase 1: Accuracy Test for Aviation Receivers and
   Reacquisition Time Test for Land Receivers Ming Luo, Dennis Akos, Sam
   Pullen, Per Enge Stanford University Table of Contents 1.0 Background 2
   2.0 Introduction to Test Plan
   .......................................................................
   . ...................................................6 3.0 Test Scope 8
   Appendices: A.
   Figures................................................................
   . ..................................................................17
   B.
   Calibration............................................................
   . ................................................................24
   1.0 Background The Global Positioning System (GPS) is fundamental to
   the critical infrastructure of the United States (US) and
   internationally. GPS is a fully operational service that provides a
   global source for accurate timing and positioning, 24 hours a day. GPS
   is presently used by aviation for the en-route and non-precision
   landing phases of flight. GPS is currently used within the US for
   precision approach and landings and is in the final stages of approval
   as a national and international standard. Companion GPS-based
   applications for runway incursion and ground traffic management are
   also underway. Additionally, GPS-based public safety systems and
   services are fielded. Planned or newer systems, such as Enhanced 911
   (E911) and personal location and medical tracking devices are soon to
   be commercially available. Additional future systems are planned for
   land, marine and space applications. The US telecommunications and
   power distribution systems are dependent upon GPS for network
   synchronization timing. Further, GPS is a powerful enabling technology
   that has created new industries and new industrial practices fully
   dependent upon GPS signal availability and continuity. Several critical
   industries, both aviation and non-aviation, would incur adverse impact
   if there were degradation to GPS signal continuity and availability.
   UWB technology is based on very short pulses of radio energy. Its wide
   signal bandwidth yields excellent multipath immunity. UWB technology
   has potential in a variety of applications including communication and
   ranging, and is expected to see increased civil use in the future. The
   UWB technology was the focus of the Notice of Inquiry (NOI) of the
   Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under the Office of Engineering
   and Technology (OET) entitled "Notice of Inquiry in the Matter of
   Revision of Part 15 of the Commission's Rules Regarding Ultra-Wideband
   Transmission Systems", FCC Docket Number (No.) 98-208/ET No. 98-153.
   Because GPS has a pivotal role in so many critical systems that the
   public depends upon for its safety and well being, it is necessary to
   determine what the potential for interference is from ultra-wideband
   (UWB) systems to GPS. Preliminary analysis and testing has indicated a
   potential for interference from some types of UWB sources to GPS
   reception. These preliminary findings call for the performance of
   controlled testing to determine the nature and extent of the potential
   for interference to GPS from selected UWB parameters in order to assure
   public safety and safety-of-life. Without test results, such an
   assurance cannot be made with full confidence since preliminary
   analysis has shown a potential for interference from UWB to GPS and
   other systems, including fielded aviation systems. The aviation
   community has a large body of developed and published technical
   standards for GPS and defined interference criteria making it logical
   to initiate the first phase of testing for aviation based on this large
   body of work. Additionally, due to the critical role of many
   non-aviation GPS-based applications, this test phase also addresses
   some issues of land receivers. This test phase selects the metric of
   accuracy performance and GPS signal reacquisition time. Aviation
   receivers meeting published specifications are used in the accuracy
   measurement phase; a land receiver will be used for the reacquisition
   testing. A GPS simulator provides the GPS input and the UWB parameters
   are provided by a prototype UWB waveform generator where the various
   UWB waveform parameters can be varied independently in a controlled
   manner. These metrics were considered appropriate for the first phase
   of testing. Accuracy measurements also include the deleterious effects
   of cycle slips, and are an appropriate metric not only for precision
   approach but other demanding applications as well, for example, machine
   guidance. Reacquisition, while important to many aviation applications,
   is a critical performance metric for dynamic, real-time land
   applications, such as emergency medical response vehicles, other public
   safety vehicles and in-vehicle navigation. Reacquisition is also a
   critical performance metric for marine applications in harbor and
   harbor-approach areas. Particularly under extreme weather conditions,
   these systems can be the lifeline of a successful search-and-rescue
   situation or can be the measure preventing the initial event of the
   accident. A full testing program would include not only aeronautical
   systems, but systems critical to land and sea operations. We note that
   systems such as radio astronomy and private sector systems should be
   looked at to determine whether there is potential for interference from
   UWB systems operating under any proposed rules. Test results can be
   inculcated into the technical rules, support appropriate regulatory
   actions and other associated decisions. It is also important to
   consider the current role that GPS plays in the consumer market. Since
   many UWB proposals are for consumer-grade products, it is important to
   assure that already existing GPS-based consumer products are included
   in an appropriate manner in the analysis and decision-making process.
   The first phase of the test program concentrates on the aeronautical
   applications of GPS L1 signal, centered at 1575.42 MHz. These tests are
   necessary to evaluate the impact that UWB device emissions could have
   on safety-of-life aeronautical systems that are based on the GPS
   Standard Positioning Service (SPS), the Wide Area Augmentation System
   (WAAS), and the Local Area Augmentation System (LAAS). Allowable levels
   of interference are already specified in the LAAS Minimum Performance
   Standards (MASPS) and the WAAS and LAAS Minimum Operating Performance
   Standards (MOPS) interference ``masks''. Appropriate reference
   documents include: Assessment of Radio Frequency Interference Relevant
   to the GNSS, January 27, 1997 (RTCA DO-235). Minimum Aviation
   Performance Standards for the Local Area Augmentation System, September
   28,1998 (RTCA/DO-245). Minimum Operational Performance Standards for
   Global Positioning System/Wide Area Augmentation System Airborne
   Equipment, October 6, 1999 (RTCA DO-229B or the GPS/WAAS MOPS). Minimum
   Operational Performance Standards for GPS Local Area Augmentation
   System Airborne Equipment, January 11, 2000, (RTCA DO-253 or the
   GPS/LAAS MOPS). Technical and Performance Characteristics of Current
   and Planned RNSS (space-to-earth) and ARNS Receivers to be Considered
   in Interference Studies in the 1559 to 1610MHz, International
   Telecommunications Union (ITU) Document 8/83-E, April 29,1999
   International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Global Navigation
   Satellite System Panel (GNSSP) SARPs, Resistance to Interference
   Section B.3.7 Technical Standard Order C129, Airborne Supplemental
   Navigation Equipment Using the Global Positioning System (GPS), TSO
   C129, USDOT Federal Aviation Administration, December 1992. Global
   Positioning System - Standard Position System Signal Specification; 2nd
   Edition; June 2, 1995. Table 1 highlights the parameters used to derive
   the limits on out-of-band (OOB) emissions from Mobile Satellite Service
   (MSS) Mobile Earth Terminal (MET) in order to protect aeronautical GPS
   receivers used for Cat I precision approaches. Table 1. GPS L1 Receiver
   RFI Susceptibility Link Budget for Single MSS MET Interference for
   Category I Landings Parameter Value Units MSS Emissions Limit1 -70
   dBW/MHz 100 ft Path Loss2 -66.1 dB GPS Antenna Gain in Direction of
   RFI3 -10 dB MSS RFI @GPS Receiver -146.1 -206.1 dBW/MHz dBW/Hz
   Aeronautical Services Margin4 ?5.6 dB GPS Receiver RFI Susceptibility
   Limit -140.5 -200.1 dBW/MHz dBW/Hz 1 This value was determined for
   Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) only, for the 1559-1610 MHz band. 2, 3
   This parameter was determined for one MSS emitter and one GPS receiver
   onboard an aircraft for Category I; it may not be appropriate for all
   pertinent aviation or non-aviation operational scenarios. 4 This margin
   will be absorbed by other aeronautical services. As noted in Table 1,
   the total RFI susceptibility limit is -140.5 dBW/MHz. RTCA SC-159 is
   currently finalizing the link budget for Category II/III approaches and
   landings that will be similar in nature. It is expected that
   aeronautical interference sources external to GPS and the additional
   receiver hardening required for Category II/III approach and landings
   will consume the entire 5.6 dB aeronautical services margin. This 5.6
   dB margin results in a C/N0 margin of only 3.2 dB for the LAAS
   application (as detailed in Reference 5, Annex 5). Due to the adoption
   of a -70 dBW/MHz limit by the FCC for the MSS MET, the total level of
   -146.1dBW/MHz is taken up by the MSS earth-to-space services leaving no
   margin for the UWB emissions or other new technologies that may be
   proposed in the future. In order to appreciate why the GPS Category I
   link budget has a lack of margin it is necessary to provide additional
   background on the allowed RFI allocation process and the integrity
   monitoring design of the GPS receiver. For a MOPS-compliant GPS
   receiver (i.e., the receiver operates at the minimum standard), the
   significance of the susceptibility limit is that any combined
   non-aeronautical RFI exceeding -146.1dBW/MHz is likely to cause an
   alert leading to loss of continuity. In other words, the performance of
   minimally MOPS-compliant receivers will fall short of requirements and
   may generate Harmful and Misleading Information (HMI) in the absence of
   navigation alert. The MOPS specifies that all combined non-aeronautical
   RFI below -146.1 dBW/MHz shall not cause a loss of continuity. GPS
   receivers that surpass the MOPS requirements must issue a
   loss-of-continuity alert when RFI exceeds -146.1 dBW/MHz and a
   navigation hazard is present; the hazard must be detected and alerted
   so that users are not threatened by it. The aeronautical community is
   concerned because there is no margin available in the -140.5dBW/MHz
   susceptibility limit for non-aeronautical RFI from other sources such
   as UWB devices since all available margins were allotted to a single
   MSS MET. For instance, there also is no margin for the World
   Radiocommunication Conference of 1997 (WRC- 97) Inmarsat proposal to
   operate space-to-Earth MSS satellites in the 1559-1567 MHz band. The
   issue is still on the WRC-2000 agenda. These statements are true even
   for a device that conforms to Part 15 limits. For example, the FCC
   spurious emissions of a Part 15 device must be below -71 dBW/MHz in the
   GPS band. This results in an RFI level of -147.5 dBW/MHz at 100 feet.
   See Table 1. Since MSS METs and UWB device emissions may combine at the
   aircraft, the resulting RFI level would be -143.56 dBW/MHz. After
   including 5.6 dB of aeronautical signals, the RFI level would be -138
   dBW/MHz, or 2.5 dB above the allowed level of -140.5 dBW/MHz. This
   reduces the safety margin reserved for aviation use to an unacceptable
   level. Furthermore, the above RFI scenario does not include any effects
   from multiple MSS METs, multiple UWB devices, VHF harmonics, or other
   systems. It identifies a receiver-emitter proximity for a single,
   critical aeronautical application i.e. Category I precision approach
   and landing. The range of aeronautical use of GPS has evolved and
   requires examination of the range of the receiver-emitter proximity to
   assure that this range and the other parameters listed (see Table 1)
   protect all aeronautical use of GPS. Further, these parameters must be
   examined for appropriate non-aviation operational scenarios to assure
   that appropriate public safety services will be protected. To achieve
   this work, the appropriate operational scenarios must be developed to
   provide the framework into which the technical results of testing can
   be applied. This is true for any service, aviation or non-aviation. It
   is planned to include study of the aggregate effect of multiple UWB
   emitters in a later study phase, pending funding. Certainly to
   determine the appropriate protection limits for systems that may be
   potentially affected, the aggregate effect must be somehow determined.
   The above discussions described the link-budget margin for receivers
   used in a given aeronautical safety-of-life scenario. For
   non-aeronautical applications the scenarios are under discussion.
   Critical scenarios also include non-aviation safety-of-life and public
   safety services, such as ambulance and E911 services. In the ambulance
   scenario the possibility arises where terrestrial GPS receivers, MSS
   hand-held cell phones and UWB devices may operate simultaneously at
   very close ranges. If interference between these systems occurs, all
   services can be adversely impacted not only technically but
   economically as well. Importantly, appropriate operational scenarios be
   developed for aviation and non-aviation applications. The test plan
   will collect interference effects data using both aeronautical and
   non-aeronautical receivers that when combined with the appropriate
   protection limits will allow the analysis of any appropriate scenario.
   2.0 Introduction to Test Plan The goal of this test plan is to
   characterize the interference effects of UWB emissions on various types
   of aviation and non-aviation GPS receivers in a controlled test
   environment. Some UWB emissions could be quite noise-like while others
   may have more discrete spectral lines in the vicinity of GPS. An RFI
   equivalence concept was developed to relate the interference impact of
   UWB signals on GPS over this range of UWB emissions to that of a known
   and well understood RFI source, i.e., broadband noise. The method
   chosen for this test plan is to determine the UWB interference effect
   for a given set of emission parameters that is equivalent to a known
   portion of the broadband noise input which causes the GPS receiver to
   just meet its performance criterion. A significant level of broadband
   noise is input to give a representation of the actual GPS environment.
   The test criteria consist of pseudorange measurement accuracy for
   aviation receivers and reacquisition time for non-aviation receivers.
   The pseudorange accuracy criterion for aeronautical GPS receivers is a
   standard deviation of less than 15cm. The equivalence concept test
   methodology consists of inserting broadband noise into the GPS receiver
   and increasing its level until 15 cm of pseudorange standard deviation
   is indicated. The broadband noise source is then reduced 2 dB and the
   UWB emission level is increased by varying one of the UWB parameters
   (e.g. power) until there is a 15 cm pseudorange standard deviation
   indication. The above procedure is repeated with the broadband noise
   source reduced by 4 dB instead of 2 dB. Another UWB parameter (e.g.
   PRF) is chosen and the entire sequence repeated until all UWB
   parameters have been investigated. From this interference effect data,
   a profile of those UWB parameters that have the most significant effect
   on GPS accuracy performance will emerge. This process provides accuracy
   data at three different levels of broadband noise (100%, 63%, and 40%
   of the critical noise input) in combination with three different levels
   of UWB RFI (0%, 37%, 60%). These data capture the RFI effects on the
   GPS receiver that can be used in external derivations of the UWB
   protection level appropriate for GPS. An equivalent process is used for
   a non-aeronautical receiver with a one second acquisition time as the
   test criterion. Three potential benefits from determining the
   equivalence of UWB transmissions with broadband noise are: a simple
   test procedure; interference effects data that can use information from
   specific interference encounters (e.g., range, antenna orientation and
   gain, source motion) and UWB source information to determine compatible
   UWB scenarios that satisfy the protection limit; and, if during the
   broadband noise equivalence test, a 4 dB increase in broadband noise
   also corresponds to a 4 dB increase in the UWB transmitter power, for
   the same accuracy degradation value (15 cm) then UWB source may be
   classified as noise-like. In such cases a simple calculation of
   broadband noise sources can determine UWB protection limit. It should
   be noted that this test plan does not: define the UWB protection
   limits; or, define the interference scenarios. Also a separate effort,
   not a part of this test, is necessary to determine effective UWB
   emission measurement techniques, since existing methods (e.g., FCC Part
   15) tailored for older technologies are likely inadequate. As testing
   proceeds, detailed notes will be taken and developed into appendices if
   warranted to clarify the details of the various aspects of this testing
   approach. Further testing for GPS must include at a minimum other
   receiver types such as fielded aviation equipment based on TSO C129
   standard, include the aggregate effect of multiple UWB emitters, and
   address the additive affect of other systems and their out-of-band
   emissions. Note that it is important to test with actual UWB equipment
   to validate these results and add additional parameters reflective of
   current UWB technology. Future testing should be accomplished to look
   at discrete and continuous spectra, noting that some UWB equipment is a
   combination of the two. 3.0 Test Scope The test plan for this phase of
   testing includes an accuracy test for aviation receivers and a
   reacquisition time test for land receivers, and these tests will be
   sequenced as follows: Accuracy test for aviation receiver #1 Accuracy
   test for aviation receiver #2 Reacquisition time test for land receiver
   #3 Accuracy test for aviation receiver #1 with a pseudolite sharing the
   channel Reacquisition time test for land receiver #4 Reacquisition time
   test for land receiver #3 (or #4) with a pseudolite sharing the channel
   In all cases, the tests will quantify the RFI impact of UWB signals
   relative to that of a known amount broadband random noise. In this
   plan, broadband random noise will refer to continuous noise from a
   noise diode that has power spectral density much broader than the RF/IF
   bandwidth of the GPS receiver. Such noise is used to model thermal
   noise in the receiver, sky noise and any other wideband interference
   process other than UWB. UWB signals also have bandwidths that are
   greater than the front end of the GPS receiver, but they have an
   additional structure that may cause their RFI effect to be very
   different than broadband random noise. The receiver's C/N estimator
   will not be used to estimate total noise power for the following
   reasons. First, any given GPS receiver's C/N estimator may respond
   differently to broadband random noise than another receiver's
   estimator. Second, the estimators may respond differently depending on
   the UWB signal parameters. Pseudorange measurement accuracy,
   acquisition/reacquisition times, and loss-of-tracking threshold are the
   four important performance metrics to GPS users. For this test phase,
   the metric selected is accuracy performance in an aviation receiver.
   The most demanding precision approach operations require a pseudorange
   measurement standard deviation of less than 15cm. Pseudorange
   measurement accuracy is influenced by degradations from both code and
   carrier tracking. As such it is the most sensitive metric for the
   aviation applications. Acquisition/reacquisition time is an important
   metric for most land users. For example, in-vehicle navigation and
   emergency vehicles need to quickly reacquire GPS after signal loss and
   develop a new position estimate. For this reason, emergency land
   applications require reacquisition times of approximately 1 second. The
   reacquisition tests described here assume that only one satellite is
   lost and must be reacquired. These tests are crafted to provide input
   to a separate process that considers the operational scenarios that
   might place UWB and GPS equipment in proximity. Such scenarios may
   include the use of GPS to provide position reports with all E911 calls.
   They may also include the use of GPS to avoid runway incursions, or the
   use of GPS during the precision approach of aircraft. Each scenario has
   a link budget that assumes that the presence of certain types of
   interference. The test described will not develop the scenarios or the
   associated link budgets. Rather, they will provide data on the
   interference effects of various combinations of UWB signal parameters.
   The RFI effect of the UWB signal will be sensitive to the details of
   the UWB signal design. Some of these trends are depicted in Figure 1.
   We anticipate that our interference measurements will reflect the
   following quantitative trends: Pulse Repetition Frequency (PRF): If the
   pulses are sent at a very low rate compared to the front end bandwidth
   of the GPS receiver, then the interference will be smaller than that
   due to UWB operation at high PRFs. Most GPS receivers have bandwidths
   between 2 MHz and 24 MHz. If the UWB PRF is less than 2 million pulses
   per second (MPPS), then the pulses will still be distinct at the output
   of the receiver front end and interference will probably be relatively
   small. If the UWB PRF is higher than the bandwidth, then the GPS front
   end will smear the pulses together and the interference effect will
   probably be larger. GPS receivers are well known to have lower
   sensitivity to pulsed interference and higher sensitivity to continuous
   interference. No Modulation: If the PRF is high, then the interference
   effect will depend on the UWB modulation. Some UWB signals may not be
   modulated. In this case, the signal is a pulse train with a constant
   time between pulses. This case is shown in Figure 2 and results in the
   line spectrum also shown in Figure 2. The GPS spectrum for the C/A code
   also has a line spectrum. UWB interference will be greatest when the
   UWB lines fall on top of the GPS spectral lines. UWB interference will
   be small when the UWB lines fall between the GPS lines. This spectral
   coincidence is difficult to predict and the UWB effect on GPS will be
   very variable. Pulse Modulation: If the UWB pulses are modulated
   randomly or with a long code, then the line spectrum will disappear.
   This effect is shown in Figure 3, which shows the amplitude spectrum
   for a UWB pulse train without modulation, with on-off-keying (OOK) and
   with pulse position modulation (PPM). If modulation is used with
   sequences that are continuous and have high PRFs, then the interference
   effect will be similar to white noise of equal power. Pulse Bursting:
   As shown in Figure 2, UWB pulses may be transmitted in bursts with a
   prescribed on-time and off-time. If the duty cycle (fractional on-time)
   is less than 40 percent or so, then we expect that the effect of one
   UWB transmitter on a GPS receiver will be reduced. The interference
   effect will also depend on the on-time of the pulse bursts. Pulse
   Shaping: As shown in Figure 4, the overall UWB spectrum depends on the
   pulse shape. The pulse can be crafted so that the UWB spectrum avoids
   certain critical bands. All of these trends must be validated and
   quantified. To that end, these tests will vary the UWB signal
   parameters and determine how the UWB to broadband random noise
   equivalence depends on the UWB signal parameters. This test philosophy
   is depicted in Table 2 and Figure 5, which show four loops on the UWB
   signal parameters. The first loop simply varies the modulation from: no
   modulation to random OOK to random PPM. The second loop transmits pulse
   bursts with varying duty cycle. The third loop varies the UWB pulse
   repetition frequency (PRF). The final loop captures the effect of pulse
   shaping by varying the UWB power. These tests simply treat the UWB
   power level in the GPS band as an independent parameter. Table 2: UWB
   Signal Parameters to be tested.1 UWB Signal Parameter Range Power
   (dBW/MHz) As need to introduce the interference effects described
   below2 Pulse Repetition Frequency (MHz) 0.1, 1.0, 20.0 Modulation None,
   random OOK, random PPM3 Burst Duty Cycle (%) 10, 50, 100 Burst On-Time
   0.1 millisecond (msec), 1 msec, 10 msec 1 The permutations listed in
   the table represent the current plan. Different values may be selected
   based on the early test results. 2 The UWB test pulse spectra are
   depicted in Figure 4, where the pulse amplitude is controlled to
   introduce a known amount of UWB noise power in the GPS band. 3 The
   random PPM will be such that no spectral lines remain and the spectrum
   is continuous. 4.0 Overview of Test Procedure 4.1 Calibration We now
   describe the overall test procedure that is depicted in Figures 6
   through 8. As shown in Figure 6, the test begins with calibration of:
   the GPS signal generator and signal path, the broadband random noise
   source and the UWB signal source. This procedure is described in the
   Appendix and will not be further detailed in the body of the test plan.
   4.2 Receiver Normalization Next, the receiver is normalized using the
   Test Setup shown in Figure 9. Accuracy and reacquisition time are
   measured as a function of input noise where the noise is entirely due
   to broadband random noise with no UWB component. This step establishes
   receiver performance in the absence of UWB noise and provides a
   baseline for later comparison. All noise power measurements will be
   made using a bandpass filter that is based on the interference masks in
   the WAAS and LAAS Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS).
   This measurement filter has a noise bandwidth of approximately 20 MHz.
   All accuracy and reacquisition time measurements will be made as a
   function of the noise power (N0) as measured at the output of this
   standard filter. A current NTIA test program will relate increase in
   receiver noise using various receiver bandwidths as a function of UWB
   parameters. The results from the receiver normalization will sample the
   curves shown in Figures 10 and 11. As shown, both accuracy and
   reacquisition time will degrade with increasing noise power. Each data
   point will require many measurements to establish statistical
   confidence. For the accuracy normalization, the number of measurements
   per sample will be large enough to provide a 95% confidence at the
   1-centimeter level. For the reacquisition time normalization, the
   number of measurements will be large enough to provide a 95% confidence
   at the 0.5-second level. The time required to establish these levels of
   confidence is receiver dependent. The samples must be statistically
   uncorrelated, and the time between such uncorrelated samples depends on
   the bandwidth of the receiver's tracking loop. Hence, this tracking
   bandwidth will be determined for each receiver under test and used to
   determine the time required to test each receiver. To minimize test
   time, the accuracy tests will use code minus carrier measurements,
   where the code will not be smoothed by the carrier. These unsmoothed
   errors are greater than the errors using carrier smoothing. Moreover,
   the 15-centimeter (cm) requirement is based on 100 seconds of carrier
   smoothing. Hence, the 15-cm requirement must be inflated by the factor,
   k, shown in Figure 9. This factor is given by the noise equivalent
   bandwidth of the loop providing the unsmoothed measurements divided by
   the noise equivalent bandwidth with 100 seconds of carrier smoothing.
   This factor must be determined with care, because the ratio of these
   noise bandwidths is not necessarily given by the inverse of the ratio
   of their stated time constants. 4.3 Receiver Operating Points . The
   reacquisition test will be operated near the noise power required for a
   reacquisition time of 1 second. This power is denoted N*REACQ. These
   operating points shall be determined to an accuracy of +/- 0.5 dB. For
   accuracy, the UWB interference tests are initiated at broadband random
   noise powers given by N*ACC - 2dB and N*ACC - 4dB. For reacquisition
   time, the UWB interference tests are initiated at broadband random
   noise powers given by N*REACQ - 2dB and N*REACQ - 4dB. 4.4 UWB
   Interference Measurements The UWB interference measurements are shown
   in Figure 7 and the Test Setup is shown in Figure 12. For future
   testing, the setup also has the capability to include signals from a
   pseudolite. As shown, UWB noise power is added to the broadband random
   noise. These tests are designed to provide data points on curves such
   as those shown in Figure 13 for accuracy and Figure 14 for
   reacquisition time. In both cases, the broadband random noise power
   (N0) is decreased so that the noise power is at the operating points
   discussed above. From that operating point, UWB power is introduced to
   increase the total noise power (N0+NUWB). As shown in Figures 13 and
   14, this degradation may or may not cause the performance curves to
   follow the curves for broadband random noise alone, and the exact
   trajectory will depend on the UWB signal parameters. If the specific
   UWB waveform has a more deleterious effect than broadband random noise,
   then the UWB trajectory will be higher than the broadband random noise
   curve. If the parameters are such that the UWB signal is less damaging
   than broadband random noise, then the UWB trajectory will fall under
   the broadband random noise curve. Both situations are depicted in
   Figures 13 and 14. The UWB portion of the total noise power (N0+NUWB)
   will be changed in 1 dB steps. UWB noise power will be measured in the
   same standard filter described above. This practice requires that the
   UWB PRF be less than 20 Mpps. If the pulse rate is greater, then the
   UWB spectral lines may fall outside of the filter passband and the
   results will be unreliable. As before, each sample will require many
   measurements to establish statistical confidence. For the accuracy
   tests with UWB, the number of measurements per sample will be large
   enough to provide a 95% confidence at the 1-centimeter level. For the
   reacquisition time tests with UWB, the number of measurements will be
   large enough to provide a 95% confidence at the 0. 5-second level. The
   time required for the UWB interference measurements will be receiver
   dependent and the bandwidth of the receiver under test will be used to
   determine the test time. Once again, code-carrier measurements will be
   used to minimize the time required for the accuracy tests. 4.5
   Reporting For each set of UWB signal parameters, we will report the
   following parameters of significance: UWB power (NUWB) portion of the
   total noise power (N0+NUWB) required to degrade the accuracy to k15 cm.
   Accuracy as measured by code minus carrier when N0 + NUWB = N*ACC. In
   other words, record the accuracy when the noise power including UWB
   noise is equal to the previously determined threshold for broadband
   random noise only. UWB portion (NUWB) of the total power (N0+NUWB)
   required to degrade the reacquisition time to 1 second. Reacquisition
   time when N0 + NUWB = N*ACC. In other words, record the reacquisition
   time when the signal to noise ratio including the UWB noise is equal to
   the previously determined threshold for reacquisition for broadband
   random noise only. The above listed parameters will be determined for
   both starting points N* - 2dB and N* - 4dB. We will provide timely
   inputs to the processes that are developing the operational scenarios.
   5.0 Accuracy Test Procedure for Aviation Receivers The accuracy test
   procedure is described in the following two subsections. This test
   procedure is adapted from Section 2.5.8 of RTCA DO-229B, the Minimum
   Operational Performance Standard for Avionics Using the Wide Area
   Augmentation System (WAAS). As described above, it includes the
   following steps: calibration, normalization with white noise only, UWB
   interference measurements, and reporting. The calibration is described
   in the Appendix. Sections 4.1 and 4.2 detail the broadband random noise
   normalization and the UWB interference measurements respectively. 5.1
   Broadband Random Noise Normalization Set up the test equipment as shown
   in Figure 9. The GPS receiver is operated with the minimum rated
   received satellite signal level. Compensation is applied to adjust for
   room temperature, satellite simulator noise output, or the effects of a
   remote antenna preamplifier as needed. In other words, set the GPS
   power (C) to -134.5 dBm+GLNA where GLNA is the gain of any equipment
   that might nominally appear between the antenna and the receiver under
   test. Broadband random noise is added to the simulated GPS satellite
   signal at the receiver input. Set the center frequency of the broadband
   noise to 1575.42 MHz. The starting value is the RTCA/DO-229B MOPS level
   for initial acquisition. Adjust the broadband noise power such that the
   noise power is -103.5 dBm+GLNA as measured in the standard filter
   described earlier. The gain GLNA accounts for the gain that appears
   between the antenna and the receiver under test. As a rough check on
   power levels, measure the carrier to noise density (C/N0) as reported
   by the receiver. This (C/N0) should be approximately 33 dB-Hz. Let the
   GPS receiver track the satellite and reach steady state (for at least
   10 seconds). Measure the unsmoothed pseudorange and estimate the
   one-sigma pseudorange error by computing the standard deviation (r of
   the code-minus-carrier test statistic after removing a 2nd-order
   polynomial fit of the mean. Use the sample size required to achieve the
   confidence levels described above. Also recall that the unsmoothed
   pseudorange error is larger than the smoothed pseudorange error by a
   factor of k. This factor is the ratio of the noise bandwidth for the
   code loop to the noise bandwidth when 100 seconds of carrier smoothing
   is used. 6) Increase the broadband random noise power in 1 dB steps
   until the variance just exceeds the k15 cm accuracy limit. Record the
   noise power setting (N*ACC). Record also the C/N indicator from the GPS
   receiver. 5.2 Procedure for Testing Potential UWB Impact on GPS
   Accuracy Setup the test equipment as shown in Figure 12 without the
   pseudolite. Set the noise attenuator to 2 dB below the value obtained
   in Section 4.1, Step 6 (N*ACC). Select one set of UWB signal parameters
   from the test matrix described earlier and set the UWB noise power
   (NUWB) 10 dB below the broadband random noise power (N0). Let the GPS
   receiver track the satellite and reach steady state (for at least 10
   seconds). Measure the unsmoothed pseudorange and estimate the one-sigma
   pseudorange error by computing the standard deviation (r of the
   code-minus-carrier test statistic after removing a 2nd-order polynomial
   fit of the mean. Use the sample size required to achieve the confidence
   levels described above and recall that the unsmoothed pseudorange error
   is larger than the smoothed pseudorange error by a factor of k.
   Increase the UWB power until the k15 cm pseudorange variance is just
   exceeded. Record that power setting. Record also the C/N indicator from
   the GPS receiver. Also find and record the accuracy when the total
   power (UWB plus broadband) equals the threshold power for broadband
   noise alone. Change the UWB signal parameters to the next values in the
   test matrix and repeat steps 3) through 6) until all n combinations of
   UWB signal parameters are exhausted. For this initial test phase, n=81.
   Set the noise attenuator to 4 dB below the value obtained in Section
   4.1, Step 6 (N*ACC) and repeat steps 3) through 6) to obtain a second
   set of data points for the n cases. 6.0 Reacquisition Time Test
   Procedure for Land Receivers The reacquisition time test procedure is
   described in the following two subsections. This test procedure is
   adapted from Section 2.5.6 of RTCA DO-229B, the Minimum Operational
   Performance Standard (MOPS) for Avionics Using the Wide Area
   Augmentation System (WAAS). These tests assume that only one satellite
   is lost and needs to be reacquired. As such, the receiver is assumed to
   have a good estimate of its time offset relative to GPS time and the
   expected Doppler offset of the lost satellite. However, the receiver
   must search over all possible values of code phase. Similar to the
   accuracy test, the reacquisition time test includes the following
   steps: calibration, normalization with broadband random noise only, UWB
   interference measurements, and reporting. The calibration is described
   in the Appendix. Sections 5.1 and 5.2 detail the broadband random noise
   normalization and the UWB interference measurements. 6.1 Broadband
   Random Noise Normalization Set up the test equipment as shown in Figure
   9. Connect the simulator clock to the receiver clock. This connection
   provides the time information to the receiver that is assumed in the
   reacquisition time tests described in Section 2.5.6 of the MOPS. The
   GPS receiver is operated with the minimum rated received satellite
   signal level. Compensation is applied to adjust for room temperature,
   satellite simulator noise output, or the effects of a remote antenna
   preamplifier as needed. In other words, set the GPS power (C) to -134.5
   dBm+GLNA where GLNA is the aggregate gain of any equipment that might
   nominally appear between the antenna and the receiver under test. Add
   broadband random noise to the simulated GPS satellite signal at the
   receiver input. Set the center frequency of the broadband noise to
   1575.42 MHz. The starting value is the RTCA/DO-229B MOPS level for
   initial acquisition. Adjust the broadband random noise power such that
   the noise power is -103.5 dBm+GLNA as measured in the standard filter
   described earlier. The gain GLNA accounts for the gain that nominally
   appears between the antenna and the receiver under test. As a rough
   check on power levels, measure the carrier to noise density (C/N0) as
   reported by the receiver. This (C/N0) should be approximately 33 dB-Hz.
   Let the GPS receiver track the satellite and reach steady state (for at
   least 10 seconds). Attenuate the GPS signal so that the receiver loses
   lock. Introduce a 50 meter step in simulated pseudorange over 10
   seconds while the signal is not being tracked by the receiver under
   test. Remove the attenuation of the GPS signal and measure the time
   until the receiver reports code phase lock continuously for 10 seconds.
   Repeat steps 4) through 7) until the sample size provides the
   confidence levels described above. for the reacquisition time
   specification of 1 second. 6.2 Reacquisition Time Test with UWB Noise
   Setup the test equipment as shown in Figure 12 without the pseudolite.
   Set the noise power to 2 dB less than the threshold noise power
   (N*REACQ) determined in the broadband random noise tests described in
   Section 5.1. Select one set of UWB signal parameters from the test
   matrix described earlier and set the UWB noise power (NUWB) 10 dB below
   the broadband random noise power (N0). Let the GPS receiver track the
   satellite and reach steady state (for at least 10 seconds). Attenuate
   the GPS signal so that the receiver loses lock. Introduce a 50 meter
   step in simulated pseudorange over 10 seconds while the signal is not
   being tracked by the receiver under test. Remove the attenuation of the
   GPS signal and measure the time until the receiver reports code phase
   lock continuously for 10 seconds. Repeat steps 4) through 7) until the
   sample size provides the confidence levels described earlier for
   reacquisition time. Increase the UWB noise power by 1 dB and repeat
   steps 4) through 9) until the total noise power (N0+NUWB) is slightly
   greater than the power required to obtain a 1 second reacquisition
   time. Record the UWB power (NUWB). Also find and record the
   reqcauisition time when the total power (UWB plus broadband) equals the
   threshold power for broadband noise alone. Change the UWB signal
   parameters to the next values in the test matrix and repeat steps 4)
   through 9) until all UWB signal parameters are exhausted. Set the
   broadband random noise power to N*REACQ - 4 dB and repeat steps 4)
   through 10) to obtain a second set of n values of UWB power settings.
   Appendix A: Figures Figure 1: UWB Signaling Figure 2: Different UWB
   Signals Figure 3: UWB Amplitude Spectrum Figure 4: A UWB Signal Figure
   5: Loops for UWB Signal Parameters Figure 6: Overall Test Flow (1 of 3)
   Figure 7: Overall Test Flow (2 of 3) Figure 8: Overall Test Flow (3 of
   3) Figure 9: Test Setup for Receiver Normalization Figure 10: Receiver
   Normalization for Pseudorange Accuracy Test Figure 11: Receiver
   Normalization for Reacquisition Time Figure 12: Full Test Setup Figure
   13: Pseudorange Accuracy as UWB Power is Added to Increase the Total
   Noise Figure 14: Reacquisition Time Increase as UWB Power is Added to
   Increase the Total Noise Power Appendix B: Calibration B.1 GPS signal
   calibration B.1.1 Measure signal power at the output of the GPS
   simulator This step calibrates the GPS simulator and the cable. It
   provides the relationship between the simulator's specified power lever
   and the readings at the power meter or spectrum analyzer. If a spectrum
   analyzer is used, calibrate the spectrum analyzer with a power meter as
   necessary. Procedure: Turn off the PRN code of the GPS simulator. Sweep
   the power level setup of the GPS simulator. Measure the signal strength
   at the spectrum analyzer. Plot the calibration chart (see Figure B2 for
   an example). B.1.2 Calibrate GPS Power with splitters and combiners As
   shown in Figure B3, the test setup will use splitters and combiners.
   Hence, we need to calibrate their effects. It is assumed that the
   impedance of a GPS receiver is 50 (; thus there is no power reflection.
   Procedure: Select PRN code at the GPS simulator. Sweep the power level
   of the simulator. Plot received power vs. simulator setup power (to
   generate a plot like Figure B2). Rotate the location of the spectrum
   analyzer to calibrate each port (for each receiver). It may be
   preferable to just check a few points instead of sweeping the entire
   power range. Notes: We can also calibrate the setup as an equivalent
   6-port net using the network analyzer. To maintain the characteristics
   of the net close to their calibrated status, we plan to build an
   enclosure to keep the above components and their connections fixed. 3)
   The circuit can be balanced by adding calibrated pads. B.2 UWB
   calibration B.2.1 Snapshots of UWB transmitted signal Record pulse
   shape in the time domain and spectrum in the frequency domain for each
   transmitter (for the selected parameters only). B.2.2 UWB transmitted
   power vs. setup power This procedure calibrates the measured UWB output
   power vs. the transmitter setup power. Procedure: Set the UWB to the
   no-modulation mode and PRF = 20MHz (TBC). Sweep the UWB power level by
   adjusting the attenuator. Measure the signal strength at the spectrum
   analyzer. Plot the calibration chart (for an example, see Figure B5).
   B.2.3 UWB transmitted power through splitter and combiner This setup
   takes into account component losses (and other effects) in the
   automatic measurement setup (see Figure 12). This step is similar to
   Figure B3. As noted before, calibration using the network analyzer may
   be equivalent. Figure B6: UWB Power through Splitter and Combiner
   Procedure: Sweep the power level of the UWB transmitter. Plot received
   power vs. simulator setup power (to generate a plot similar to Figure
   B5). Rotate the location of the spectrum analyzer to calibrate each
   port (for each receiver) We may be able to just check a few points
   instead of sweeping the entire power range. Reference Document 4,
   paragraph 2.3.6.8.1, page 34 Test Plan: Potential Interference to GPS
   from UWB Transmitters Version 4.5 May 1, 2000 50( terminator 50(
   terminator 50( terminator #3 #2 #1 Splitter #1 Fig. B3: Calibration
   with Splitter and Combiner Splitter #2 GPS Simulator Attenuator GPS
   Signal Generator 50( terminator Spectrum Analyzer Combiner Figure B2:
   GPS Simulator Power Level Calibration Plot UWB transmitter Pattern
   Generator Pulse Generator Programmable Attenuator Splitter #2 50(
   terminator 50( terminator 50( terminator 50 ohm Cable #1 #3 #2 #1
   Splitter #1 50( terminator Spectrum Analyzer Combiner UWB transmitter
   Pattern Generator Pulse Generator Programmable Attenuator Cable Figure
   B4: UWB Transmit Power vs. Setup Spectrum Analyzer GPS Simulator
   Attenuator GPS Signal Generator Spectrum Analyzer Figure B1: Measured
   Signal Power Generated by GPS Simulator Figure B5: Plot of UWB Power
   vs. Setup power ?????????????????
