http://researchpark.arc.nasa.gov/what.html


   Nasa Research Park Home Image of circuit
   What is NASA Research Park?
   Image of circuit
   Proposed for NASA: High-Tech Companies & Universities
   Image of circuit
   How to Participate: Research & Education
   Image of circuit
   Community Outreach
   Image of circuit
   NASA & the Environment
   Image of circuit
   Events/Meetings
   Image of circuit
   News

   For more information on NASA Research Park, Contact: Development
   Office, NASA Ames Research Center, Mail Stop 204-2, Moffett Field, CA
   94035-1000 650.604.2105






                       researchpark@mail.arc.nasa.gov

   Button: How to Get Here

   [mainbackground.gif]

          creating a dynamic research and education community

                                                                                                                   Button: Site Plan

        WHAT IS NASA RESEARCH PARK?

        A draft of the NASA Ames Development Plan (20.5Mb pdf file) and the
        NASA Research Park Design Guide (3.4Mb pdf file) are available to
        download in Adobe Acrobat (software that can be downloaded for free)
        format.


                                                       NASA has a bold new
      vision for the 21st century. In the heart of Silicon Valley, NASA is
         developing a world-class R&D campus: the NASA Research Park. This
    200-hectacre (500-acre) area will be located at Moffett Field, federal
     property that NASA acquired when the Navy left in 1994. The area will
    be open to the public. Here the space agency and its new partners will
                          pursue research leadership for the next century.

     Artist's illustration of aerial view of NASA Research Park from south

      The NASA Ames Development Plan (NADP) (20.5Mb pdf file) details the
      transformation of the original 200-hectare (500-acre) campus of NASA
      Ames Research Center and the 600 hectares (1,500 acres) of the former
      Naval Air Station Moffett Field into an integrated, dynamic research
      and education community in the heart of Silicon Valley. This
      transformation will be led by the establishment of the NASA Research
      Park, a 86-hectare (213-acre) research and development campus for
      partners from academia, industry and non-profit corporations with
      shared goals in support of NASA's mission.

      The foundation of the NADP is the recognition that innovation in
      science and research depends on the cross-fertilization of ideas across
      related disciplines, public and private enterprises, and many levels of
      academia.

      NASA's goal is to develop a world-class, shared-use research and
      development campus in association with government entities, academia,
      industry and non-profit organizations.

      Not from NASA alone, not from industry alone and not from universities
      alone will tomorrow's innovations emerge. They will come from the
      integration of these different segments, each making the most of their
      unique attributes-NASA's focus on high-risk, long-term research;
      industry's ability to react quickly with applied technologies; and the
      universities' expertise in educating and providing a vibrant workforce
      for the future.


   Artist's illustration of aerial view of NASA Research Park from
                                                         northwest



            Home | What's NASA Research Park? | Proposed for NASA

          How to Participate | Outreach | NASA and the Environment

             Events and Meetings | News | NASA Home | Ames Home

   Responsible NASA Official: Geoff Lee | Web Specialist: Sonja Jones/Shin

                   This Page Updated On: January 25, 2002

CAST: Bobby Approved (v 3.1)

   This web site is Bobby Approved (v 3.1), which means that it is
   compliant with the May 5, 1999 Web Content Accessibililty Guidelines
   (available at http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/WAI-WEBCONTENT-19990505/)
