http://www.gil.house.gov/lutjens.htm

   Office of Congressman Gil Gutknecht
   Black Bar Home Contact Gil Site Map
   About Congressman Gil Gutknecht Information about Minnesota Visiting
   Washington, DC Constituent Services The E-Line Multimedia Issues and
   Votes

   Privacy Policy

   On the Floor House Calendar


A letter from underway, after the tragedy

   Below is an e-mail from a young ensign aboard the USS Winston Churchill
   to her parents. (Churchill is an Arleigh Burke-class AEGIS
   guided-missile destroyer, commissioned March 10, 2001, and is the only
   active U.S. Navy warship named after a foreign national.)

   Saturday, September 14, 2001

   "Dear Dad,

   We are still at sea. The remainder of our port visits have all been
   cancelled. We have spent every day since the attacks going back and
   forth within imaginary boxes drawn in the ocean, standing high-security
   watches, and trying to make the best of it. We have seen the articles
   and the photographs, and they are sickening. Being isolated, I don't
   think we appreciate the full scope of what is happening back home, but
   we are definitely feeling the effects.

   About two hours ago, we were hailed by a German Navy destroyer,
   Lutjens, requesting permission to pass close by our port side. Strange,
   since we're in the middle of an empty ocean, but the captain acquiesced
   and we prepared to render them honors from our bridgewing. As they were
   making their approach, our conning officer used binoculars and
   announced that Lutjens was flying not the German, but the American
   flag. As she came alongside us, we saw the American flag flying
   half-mast and her entire crew topside standing at silent, rigid
   attention in their dress uniforms.

   They had made a sign that was displayed on her side that read, "We
   Stand By You." There was not a dry eye on the bridge as they stayed
   alongside us for a few minutes and saluted. It was the most powerful
   thing I have seen in my life. The German Navy did an incredible thing
   for this crew, and it has truly been the highest point in the days
   since the attacks. It's amazing to think that only half-century ago
   things were quite different.

   After Lutjens pulled away, the Officer of the Deck, who had been
   planning to get out later this year, turned to me and said, 'I'm
   staying Navy.'

   I'll write you when I know more about when I'll be home, but this is it
   for now.

   Love you guys."

                Photo of the German Navy destroyer, Lutjens.

   Home

   Click for print version

     About Gil | Minnesota | Visiting DC | Services
   E-Line | Multimedia | Issues & Votes
   Home | Contact | Site Map
