http://www.feb.gov/00annualreport.doc

   FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARDS 2000 COMPOSITE ANNUAL REPORT ``Although each
   executive agency has a special mission, there are many matters on which
   the works of the departments converge. Among them are management and
   budgetary procedures, personnel policies, recruitment efforts, office
   information duties, and similar matters. There are opportunities to
   pool experiences and resources, and to accomplish savings. In
   substantive programs there are also opportunities for a closely
   coordinated approach in many activities.'' With these words, President
   John F. Kennedy introduced Federal Executive Boards (FEBs) in 1961.
   Today, 39 years later, 28 FEBs exist to provide closer coordination
   among Federal agencies outside of Washington, D.C. As regional hubs for
   all Government activity, the work of the FEBs relates to three goals:
   I. Create Partnerships II. Improve Intergovernmental Partnerships III.
   Advance Local and National Initiatives Specific activities fall under
   the following objectives: Communicate - FEBs inform member agencies of
   each other's initiatives and successes and inform the local community
   of national policies and priorities. Reduce Costs and Improve
   Efficiency - FEBs bring together agencies with common goals so that
   their efforts are complementary. Facilitate Service Delivery - FEBs
   draw together agencies with common clients so that Government services
   are convenient for the customers. Partner with Community Groups - FEBs
   partner with community groups to solve problems. Coordinate Emergency
   Services - FEBs stand ready to marshal resources of the entire Federal
   community, whether to aid a member agency in a crisis, or to assist the
   citizenry in a public emergency. Examples of ways in which Federal
   Executive Boards focused on these goals in Fiscal Year 2000 are found
   in this report. Objective 1: Communicate FEBs inform member agencies of
   each other's initiatives and successes, and inform the local community
   of national policies and priorities. A Communication Networks The FEBs
   used a variety of mechanisms to inform member agencies and each other
   about relevant initiatives and successes. Newsletters, faxes, e-mails,
   and the Internet are used to facilitate communication between members
   and to provide information to the Federal community. In addition,
   several FEBs also produced videos to disseminate information.
   Electronic Most FEBs use a broadcast fax system to distribute
   information to FEB members and other contacts quickly, who in turn
   cascade information to thousands of Federal employees. The Minnesota
   FEB reaches over 290 Federal offices throughout Minnesota as well as
   the Federal Executive Associations in North and South Dakota. The
   Oregon FEB utilizes a 400 person broadcast fax directory and a 200
   person e-mail data base. Many FEBs use e-mail addresses to disseminate
   information quickly. For example, the South Florida FEB, during the
   Hurricane season, notified agency heads about FEB recommendations and
   updated them on the status of the storm through the e-mail system. Over
   half of the FEBs established Internet homepages, providing information
   ranging from one-stop shopping to Federal job information. The Chicago
   FEB has developed a one-stop user friendly web site so that citizens
   who want to know about starting a business, obtaining government
   benefits, or accessing information about funding for not-for-profit
   organizations, can do so easily. This site allows Chicagoland citizens
   to access public sector agency information without having to download
   various websites and is averaging over 1,000 uses each month. The Los
   Angeles FEB added an on-line local Federal Employment Information Guide
   to their website, which lists agency websites, human resource contacts,
   and position information and vacancy announcements. The Minnesota FEB
   reinvented their newsletter to an interactive electronic format and
   placed it on their website. The Seattle and Boston FEBs also post their
   newsletters on their webpages, where individuals can register on-line
   for upcoming training opportunities. The Oklahoma FEB developed an
   ``on-line'' resource directory to advocate interagency resource
   sharing. Chicago uses its website to communicate information about the
   status of the Federal community during weather related emergencies.
   Publications Many of the FEBs regularly publish newsletters to
   distribute information regarding national and local initiatives,
   feature agency missions and success stories, introduce new agency
   heads, share program announcements, and highlight book reviews of
   popular management texts. The newsletters are distributed broadly to
   local agencies, chambers of commerce, city and county officials,
   congressional offices, and other FEBs. Videos Produced by FEBs The
   South Florida FEB developed a video public service announcement (PSA)
   for local television stations that addressed the role of Federal
   agencies and their impact on the local community. The video is narrated
   in both Spanish and English and was aired on the most popular local
   Spanish language station. A local Combined Federal Campaign (CFC) Video
   that showcases South Florida Federal employees volunteering at local
   charities was also produced and is used in conjunction with the
   national CFC video. The Cincinnati FEB duplicated the Hatch Act Video
   Briefing from the Office of Special Counsel and distributed to agencies
   for use in staff meetings and training sessions. The Albuquerque-Santa
   Fe FEB developed a videotape library for use by local agencies. Special
   Events The Minnesota FEB hosted its second annual Government on Display
   Exposition at the Mall of America, attracting over 320,000 visitors
   during the weekend event. A total of 43 Federal and 11 State and local
   government agencies displayed at the Expo. An advertising supplement
   for the Expo was delivered to 170,000 households in the Twin Cities
   area. The Atlanta, Oklahoma, Buffalo, Los Angeles, and New Orleans FEBs
   also hosted ``mall events,'' showcasing Federal, State, and local
   agencies Awards Programs Almost all of the FEBs host awards programs to
   recognize the outstanding performance of Federal employees in their
   regions. Many of these prestigious programs are held during Public
   Service Recognition Week in May. The Chicago FEB received 717 nominees
   for 11 award categories and over 1,400 people attended. The Boston FEB
   hosted two major interagency awards programs, including one
   specifically for Support Personnel Awards, which drew a record 1,100
   Federal employees. Baltimore's program recognized 226 outstanding
   public servants from the state of Maryland and attracted over 1,100
   attendees. Seattle recognized 335 Federal employees in the Puget Sound
   area and the Philadelphia Awards Program exceeded 1,100 attendees for
   the tenth year in a row. Some of the awards programs include categories
   that deal with saving dollars, establishing public sector partnerships,
   and assisting with community service projects. The Newark Awards
   Ceremony includes a Distinguished Service Award (DSA), given to a
   non-Federal employee who has made significant contributions to the
   Federal service and the community. This year's DSA was presented to the
   founder of New Jersey's largest Community Development Corporation
   (CDC). Through a partnership of faith-based, private sector, State,
   local and Federal government organizations, the Community Corporation
   built a variety of facilities including housing, an extended-care
   facility, a homeless shelter, a shelter for abused women, a day-care
   facility, a job training center, a community bank, and a charter school
   to educate 500 students in kindergarten through fifth grade. The
   Pittsburgh FEB honored nineteen teams of Federal employees for their
   accomplishments in reducing costs and improving efficiency and
   effectiveness. This included a Dam Design Team for the U.S. Army Corps
   of Engineers. The design plan utilizes an ``In the Wet'' construction
   technique without the use of traditional cofferdams, the first such
   type of technology used by the Corps in the nation. Direct cost saving
   related to the project resulting from the technical design and float-in
   construction method are estimated at $15 million related to reducing
   the construction period requirements. A Department of Housing and Urban
   Development, Portfolio Re- engineering Demonstration Program Team used
   innovative and unique methods to achieve savings in annual rental
   assistance payments of almost $4 million, or an astounding $80 million
   over the 20-year term of the subsidy contract. The Philadelphia FEB
   awards nomination featured cost containment initiatives that totaled
   more than $250 million. B. Media Many FEBs used a variety of media
   sources (TV, radio, newspaper) to inform the local community about
   national polices and priorities, as well as the contributions of
   Federal agencies and their employees. Television The San Antonio FEB
   celebrated its second anniversary for a weekly 30-minute cable TV Talk
   Show, ``At Your Service,'' that showcases agency programs and projects.
   These included three programs on housing issues that included a
   discussion of Federal, city, and non-profit officials and three
   programs on veteran's issues. The Cincinnati FEB produced informative
   cable television programming by recording significant events and
   programs for cablecast to the community. Examples of this year's
   programs include a ceremony naturalizing a large group of children who
   were orphaned and adopted by American parents, Martin Luther King Day
   celebrations, Black History Month Program, and Federal Service
   Excellence Awards Program. The Pittsburgh FEB and Ford City, PA, an EPA
   National Brownfield Demonstration Community, hosted a high-tech Small
   Town Summit in April 2000 at Ford City High School to help small towns
   and rural areas throughout Pennsylvania know that Federal and State
   help is available to revitalize economically depressed areas. The
   Summit was televised statewide on the Pennsylvania Cable Television
   Network and highlighted what Federal and State Programs have been used
   to help revitalize Ford City's economy. While watching the program,
   viewers were also able to interact with presenters through the
   Internet. The program was rebroadcast and the presenters were available
   to answer questions in a chat room. For one month following the Summit,
   the video of the Summit was available for viewing on the Internet. The
   Kansas City FEB arranged TV interviews for visiting government
   dignitaries or agency heads regarding specific programs and policies.
   Radio This year marked the Philadelphia FEB's completion of its 9th
   year on the air with its public affairs radio program, ``Inside
   Government,'' producing 45 shows for approximately 44,000 listeners
   each Sunday. Topics included tax-filing changes, social security
   earnings statements, innovations to Independence National Historical
   Park, VA home ownership, and local organized crime. The Cincinnati FEB
   Director appeared on a radio program called ``All Things Being Equal''
   which targets the disabled community. The program emphasized the
   non-competitive hiring process and coached disabled applicants on how
   to apply for Federal employment. Newspapers Eight FEBs (Boston, Kansas
   City, New Orleans, New York, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, San Antonio, and
   South Florida) submitted articles and press releases to local
   newspapers and Government periodicals to bring attention to the good
   work done by Federal agencies, and to inform the public about special
   events and programs. The South Florida FEB developed a print public
   service announcement (PSA) for the largest newspaper in South Florida.
   The Miami Herald agreed to run one PSA for one week in its newspaper
   during the Combined Federal Campaign. The PSA discussed the impact of
   the Federal community and its financial contributions to the local
   community. The South Florida FEB also developed a ``Local Heroes''
   print campaign. Federal employees who volunteer time in their community
   will be featured in short articles that are placed in neighborhood
   newspapers or the neighborhood section of the major newspaper. St.
   Louis obtained coverage in the ``Federal Times'' for their Federal
   Employee of the Year winners, and a 1/8 page advertisement was
   purchased in the St. Louis Post Dispatch featuring the accomplishments
   of local Federal employees and their agencies. New York submitted press
   releases for the Employee of the Year Award Program to the winners'
   local newspapers for their special interest column. C. Communication
   with Congressional Staffs on the Local Federal Role The Denver FEB
   hosted a Multi-Agency Congressional Briefing with 41 Federal agencies
   and 14 local officials attending, along with 40 Congressional/Senate
   representatives from Colorado, Nebraska, North Dakota, Utah and
   Wyoming. The Houston FEB's annual congressional liaison breakfast
   meeting attracted over 150 Federal executives, congressional leaders,
   and staff members to build stronger working relationships and discuss
   common concerns. Cincinnati and Minnesota met individually with area
   Members of Congress and staff to discuss common issues and concerns.
   The Oklahoma FEB hosted staff from local congressional and senate
   offices to serve as the rating panel for their Employee of the Year
   Awards. Objective 2: Reduce Costs and Improve Efficiency FEBs bring
   together agencies with common goals so that their efforts are
   complementary. A. No Cost/Low Cost Training that Meets Common Needs
   Almost all FEBs offered timely training on a wide variety of topics
   including crisis communications, workplace violence, leadership, health
   and safety, and the Hatch Act. The Oklahoma FEB conducted 5 training
   sessions resulting in a total cost avoidance of $201,610. The
   Cincinnati FEB hosted 6 training sessions at no cost to agencies.
   Cincinnati also maintains a central pool of audiovisual equipment,
   which is loaned to agencies that do not have equipment, and provides
   additional logistical support by providing training rooms. The
   Philadelphia FEB conducted 4 training classes at no cost, saving
   agencies over $26,000 in tuition dollars. The Pittsburgh FEB sponsored
   11 training sessions that met the common needs training of local
   Federal agencies. By pooling agencies' registration, using volunteer
   trainers, and utilizing Government conference space, the Pittsburgh FEB
   achieved savings of an estimated $75,000. The Los Angeles FEB sponsored
   12 different training classes saving Federal Agencies $220,000 in
   tuition and travel costs. The San Francisco FEB hosted a one-day
   conference for secretaries and administrative staff that attracted 114
   people and saved Federal agencies $18,696. The Oregon FEB sponsored 25
   low or no-cost employee training programs to meet the common needs of
   agencies with estimated cost savings of $125,000. The Albuquerque-Santa
   Fe FEB partnered with the Department of Labor, OSHA, to sponsor 3
   Health and Safety training sessions at no cost, saving agencies
   $57,500, and saved an additional $159,277 through the sharing of
   training resources for other programs. Additional interagency training
   cost savings include: Chicago FEB-$23,600; Buffalo FEB-$20,000; San
   Antonio FEB-$270,000; Newark FEB-$190,700; Atlanta FEB-$40,000; and
   Seattle FEB-$174,450. OUTCOME FEBs played a key role in identifying and
   sponsoring common needs training at no or low cost, saving the
   Government an estimated $1.6 million. B. Leadership Training The San
   Antonio FEB hosted a 12-month leadership development program,
   Leadership FEB, in which 45 local Federal senior managers met on a
   monthly basis to consider key issues facing the San Antonio Federal
   community and the greater community at large. The St. Louis and Kansas
   City FEBs sponsored an Executive Development Forum for 202 agency heads
   and key staff members. The Los Angeles FEB co-sponsored an Executive
   Leadership Conference with the Office of Personnel Management and the
   College Federal Council that was attended by more than 100 executives.
   Los Angeles also graduated 14 members from the FEB Leadership
   Associates Program. The Albuquerque-Santa Fe FEB initiated a one-year
   Leadership development program, designed to provide employees with
   opportunities to build their professional skills and assist them in
   reaching their developmental and career goals. The New Orleans FEB
   sponsored an EEO Leadership Conference that drew more than 550
   participants from Federal, State, and local government agencies.
   Oklahoma City provided a Leadership forum for disabled veterans to
   assist in their transition to work. The Pittsburgh FEB hosted four
   training sessions on different aspects on Leadership. Seattle and
   Oregon both had individuals enrolled in their two-year Leadership
   Associates Program. Chicago, New York, Seattle, Atlanta, Denver, and
   Dallas-Fort Worth all hosted Leadership Seminars. Cleveland graduated
   17 individuals from the Cleveland Federal Community Leadership
   Institute and Newark arranged for two Federal Employees to participate
   in an intensive Leadership program sponsored by the United Way and
   presented by Rutgers University. C. Special Initiatives to Reduce Costs
   and Maximize Savings Cooperative Administrative Support Units (CASU)
   The CASU Program provides participating government agencies with
   commonly used administrative and operations support services on a
   reimbursable basis. The Northwestern Regional CASU (Pittsburgh,
   Buffalo, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston) achieved $9.8 million in
   gross sales, a 30% increase from FY 99, and the number of customers
   grew to 146, an increase of 15% from FY99. Federal agencies saved an
   estimated $2 million. The San Antonio Franchise Business Activity
   increased their customer base to over 193, resulting in an overall $11
   million cost avoidance to participating agencies. The Oklahoma FEB
   partnered with the Oklahoma CASU to co-host the annual mid-year
   conference for CASU Directors. The Denver FEB markets the Rocky
   Mountain Regional CASU programs and is a member of the Executive
   Committee. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediation Programs A
   majority of the FEBs have ADR Programs, including New Orleans, Kansas
   City, Baltimore and San Francisco, who established programs during the
   past year. The various FEB-sponsored ADR Programs boast high-resolution
   rates, complete the mediations in a timely manner, and save thousands
   of dollars in potential litigation costs. The Oregon FEB conducted 60
   mediations, saving the government an estimated $360,000. Twenty-four of
   the 29 (82.9%) cases taken on by the St. Louis FEB were successfully
   mediated with estimated savings of $216,000. Chicago during its first
   year, established a pool of 43 trained mediators and mediated 29 cases,
   with cost avoidance to the government estimated at $250,000. During the
   past year, the Seattle FEB was asked to mediate 24 workplace disputes
   of which 17 cases were settled, an average resolution rate of 71%. For
   the 24 mediations conducted, 311 mediator hours were recorded, and the
   estimated savings to the government was $740,000. San Antonio has a
   pool of 60 mediators and successfully resolved 27 of 36 disputes (75%).
   The Oklahoma FEB mediated a total of 59 cases, resulting in cost
   avoidance of $1,488,000. Pittsburgh and Atlanta mediators each
   successfully resolved 8 of 11 cases, Houston mediators resolved 11 of
   16, and Denver was successful in 6 of 14 cases. The Cincinnati FEB
   sponsored refresher training for their Shared Neutrals Program and
   Chicago conducted quarterly training sessions for mediators to hone
   their skills and to enhance camaraderie. OUTCOME A majority of the FEBs
   now sponsor Alternative Dispute Resolution Programs. These programs, in
   which almost 200 cases were successfully mediated, saved taxpayers an
   estimated $2 million in potential litigation costs. Government
   Procurement Connections 2000 For the third year, the Houston FEB worked
   closely with city, county, and state agencies, as well as private
   industry to organize and host a procurement fair for small, minority,
   and women-owned businesses. Over 2,000 people attended, visited
   information booths and took advantage of the workshops. The Pittsburgh
   FEB distributed 793 bids, participated in 15 workshops to promote
   minority business, and 148 individuals interested in starting a
   business or buying an existing business, were provided with assistance.
   The San Antonio FEB co-sponsored a Procurement Opportunities Fair with
   the city of San Antonio to promote small and disadvantaged business.
   The Oregon FEB distributed a ``Marketing Guide to Government Contacts''
   to several hundred customers to assist minority businesses to do
   business with larger government entities. The Minnesota FEB had a very
   successful procurement fair that drew over 230 people. The Cincinnati
   FEB partnered with state and local agencies to host Minority Enterprise
   Development Week 2000 to showcase successful minority entrepreneurs and
   to provide training to young minority entrepreneurs. D. Placement of
   Displaced Federal Workers Many FEBs worked with their member agencies
   to publicize vacancies and assist with the placement of displaced
   Federal workers. The San Antonio FEB assisted Kelly Air Force Base
   (facing closure in 2001), with Executive Transition, disabled
   employment placement, and benefits retirement briefings. Acting as a
   clearinghouse, the Newark FEB circulated lists of employees to be
   displaced with member agencies resulting in the placement of 50
   employees. E. Guides to Aid Service Delivery FEBs Publication Content
   Albuquerque-Santa FE Resource Guide Lists of various resources such as
   Training facilities, meeting room space, facilitators, subject matter
   experts, and equipment available to share. Kansas City Federal
   Information Council Directory Provides names and addresses of the
   Public Affairs Officers from each agency as well as media contacts in
   the Kansas City metropolitan area. Kansas City Government Contracting
   Guide Provides information to assist minority businesses in doing
   business with Federal agencies. Oregon Marketing Guide To Government
   Contracts Provides information to assist minority businesses in doing
   business with Federal agencies. San Francisco Media Guide A directory
   of public affairs contacts in FEB member agencies. Los Angeles Public
   Affairs Resource Guide A directory of public affairs contacts in FEB
   member agencies. F. Resource Conservation Recycling Partnering with the
   local county government, the San Antonio FEB's recycling center
   generated reimbursements in excess of $300,000. The Boston FEB
   continued to promote energy and resource conservation by partnering
   with both the General Services Administration (GSA), for the Planet GSA
   initiative, and with the Environmental Protection Agency, for its Tread
   Lightly program, in efforts to reduce the environmental footprint of
   Federal employees locally. Boston prepared an interagency Memorandum of
   Understanding outlining what local Federal agencies can and have done
   to support the preservation of our environment, including developing
   telework guidelines and offering transit subsidies. The Oklahoma FEB
   signed a Memorandum of Understanding with GSA agreeing to consider the
   environment when buying products, building facilities or driving
   vehicles, committing to participate in the ``greening the government''
   initiative. The Denver FEB partnered to coordinate the largest Federal
   purchase of wind power in the nation, with 31 agencies buying 10
   megawatts of wind power, which results in reducing the amount of coal
   burned by 14,580,000 pounds each year. The Atlanta FEB is partnering to
   protect the Chattahoochee River which will enhance the supply of
   drinking water for more than half of all Georgians, as well protecting
   a continuous ribbon of green space across the state. OUTCOME FEBs
   promoted energy and resource conservation through partnering with
   greening the government initiatives, including coordinating the largest
   Federal purchase of wind power in the nation, reducing coal consumption
   by 14,580,000 pounds each year. G. Improvement in the Quality of Life
   for Federal Employees Education The South Florida FEB partnered with
   the Federal Employee Education Association (FEEA) Fund to support
   educational scholarships for South Florida's Federal employees and/or
   family members, which resulted in FEEA awarding $177,000 in merit
   scholarships to Federal employees and their dependents. Retirement and
   Financial Planning Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Buffalo, Cincinnati,
   Cleveland, Dallas-Fort Worth, Honolulu, Kansas City, New Orleans,
   Oregon, Pittsburgh, San Antonio, San Francisco, Seattle, and South
   Florida provided Federal employees with seminars that focused on
   retirement and/or financial planning. The Baltimore FEB sponsored 3
   Retirement Planning Seminars and 2 Financial Planning Seminars, and
   like most FEBs, is the only organization providing this training. The
   Atlanta FEB sponsored 2 retirement seminars to 400 employees, all at no
   cost. The Dallas-Fort Worth FEB hosted 24 retirement seminars. Over 425
   attended 2 retirement seminars sponsored by the Kansas City FEB. Topics
   included the FERS and CSRS retirement plans, what to do after
   retirement, volunteerism, and financial planning. San Antonio provided
   over 3000 employees with retirement/financial planning seminars at a
   cost of $10 per attendee. The Seattle FEB hosted 13 retirement seminars
   to 638 employees at cost savings to the Government of over $174, 000.
   Using Federal trainers, the South Florida FEB sponsored two retirement
   seminars to over 250 employees, all at no cost. Savings Bond Campaign
   The Atlanta, Denver, Honolulu, Los Angeles, Newark, New York, Oregon,
   Pittsburgh, San Antonio, and St. Louis FEBs were all involved in
   coordinating and promoting the annual Savings Bond Campaign. This year,
   staff from the Oregon, Pittsburgh, and San Antonio FEBs served as their
   areas' Federal Savings Bond Coordinator for the Department of the
   Treasury. Oregon targeted high schools to receive promotional material.
   St. Louis organized drives for both industry and Federal agencies and
   received the award for Patriotic Service based on the percentage of
   participation and new savers. Health Care The Atlanta, Baltimore,
   Buffalo, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dallas, Kansas City, Miami,
   Minnesota, Newark, New York, Oregon, Pittsburgh, South Florida, and
   Seattle FEBs planned or hosted Federal Employees Health Benefits
   Program (FEHBP) Health Fairs in Fiscal Year 2000. The Cincinnati FEB
   sponsored two wellness fairs, providing 530 employees with information
   about health, nutrition, high blood pressure management, and exercise
   programs. Cincinnati arranged for the purchase of the first Automatic
   External Defibrillator (AED) for the Peck Federal Building. Largely due
   to the leadership of the FEB, Cincinnati now has 6 Federal facilities
   with a total of 12 AEDs in place. Cincinnati's Federal Safety and
   Health Council provides training to employees, including CPR and AED,
   and won the Department of Labor's ``Best Program'' award for the fourth
   year in a row. The Pittsburgh FEB sponsored a variety of Wellness
   Programs, including a free health screening fair for cholesterol,
   glucose, blood pressure, and body fat, attended by over 300 employees.
   Additional programs included adult, child, and infant CPR training,
   Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Risk Factors, and a Personal Safety
   Seminar. Diversity Programs Diversity is a key initiative for FEBs and
   they are a catalyst for many diversity programs in their regions.
   Albuquerque-Santa Fe, Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago,
   Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth, Denver, Detroit, Houston, Honolulu,
   Kansas City, Minnesota, New Orleans, New York, Pittsburgh, Seattle, San
   Antonio, and San Francisco sponsored or participated in programs on
   this topic. Atlanta hosted a multi-agency Diversity Day Celebration
   entitled, ``Commonality: We Are More Alike Than Different,'' that was
   attended by hundreds of employees from 40 agencies. Boston sponsored
   special emphasis programs throughout the year, including a Diversity
   Day, which featured speakers, ethnic foods, and entertainment, and drew
   more than 300 employees. Over 550 participants attended an EEO
   Leadership Training Conference sponsored by the New Orleans FEB. The
   conference included an award presentation to agencies that demonstrated
   outstanding leadership in the area of EEO. The San Francisco FEB hosted
   a three-day conference, ``Promoting Change Through Organizational
   Diversity,'' that was attended by more the 200 special emphasis program
   managers, supervisors, and human resources professionals. The
   Pittsburgh FEB sponsored 12 special emphasis programs that included
   partnerships with local schools, businesses, and minority
   organizations. The Detroit FEB sponsored a Disability Awareness
   Training Seminar that included a presentation on the Americans with
   Disabilities Act and a panel discussion on aging, care giving, and
   long-term care. Objective 3: Facilitate Service Delivery FEBs draw
   together agencies with common clients so that Government services are
   convenient for the customers. A. Improve Service Delivery Blue Pages
   Project Buffalo, Cincinnati, Cleveland, and San Antonio supported the
   Blue Pages Project, an initiative to improve telephone book listings
   for government services, by coordinating local agency input for
   accurate listings with the GSA Headquarters. Regional Planning The
   Pittsburgh FEB co-sponsored the ``Smashing the Stereotype''
   Labor-Management Conference with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
   Service to explore the perception and reality of the Labor-Management
   climate in Western Pennsylvania. Over 250 union leaders, employer
   representatives, and government officials attended the full-day
   conference. Census 2000 Almost all of the FEBs actively worked to
   improve the quality of Census 2000 data collection. The Cincinnati FEB
   staff produced informational videos that were run in cafeterias,
   lobbies, and waiting areas of Federal installations throughout the
   Cincinnati area. Cincinnati built and maintained an Internet website
   for the local Census 2000 office, assisted in recruiting census
   workers, and distributed Census 2000 informational materials. Oklahoma
   distributed educational information and helped to recruit census
   workers, including specialized-needs workers (language interpreters).
   Census representatives made presentations at St. Louis FEB meetings,
   and were assisted by the FEB in recruiting Federal employees and
   retirees. OUTCOME FEBs actively worked to improve the quality of the
   Census 2000 data collection through producing informational videos,
   building and maintaining websites, and distributing informational
   materials to recruit Census workers, including specialized needs
   workers such as language interpreters. Special Events The Oklahoma FEB
   coordinated an intergovernmental-interagency effort to serve 1,542
   newly naturalized citizens. The INS, IRS, State Tax Commission, State
   Election Board, and County Court Clerk's offices are present at a
   monthly event hosted by the FEB, providing the opportunity for voters'
   registration, passport application, changing SSA records to reflect
   citizenship, and obtaining information on locations to receive
   assistance in completing tax forms. The Kansas City FEB was represented
   by 12 Federal agencies that manned exhibit booths at the Missouri State
   Fair. Government Kiosks Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Denver, Kansas City,
   Newark, New York, Seattle, and South Florida partnered to implement the
   ``Hassle Free Community'' Initiative, which was designed to develop new
   ways of delivering expanded, seamless services to customers. Newark
   hosted three One-Stop Community Fairs at Housing & Urban Development
   subsidized senior citizen residences in Newark, Asbury Park, and Jersey
   City. Over 600 senior citizens had their concerns resolved and
   questions answered. Denver partnered to rollout two kiosks for local
   areas, Broomfield and Lakewood. These kiosks provide one-stop shopping
   for Federal services, easy access and printing of forms, mortgage
   calculations, city events, and State and local job listings. Atlanta
   was successful in placing a Kiosk in Underground Atlanta, which is in
   the center of the city, and in a high tourist area. Citizens are able
   to obtain basic information and government forms, and the kiosk has
   links to state and local government. Information not available through
   the kiosk is electronically forwarded to the Atlanta U.S. General Store
   for resolution. Thirty Federal agencies participate at the U.S. General
   Store, whose mission is to provide a single stop for government
   information and services. Over 96, 000 customers were served during FY
   2000, a 38.6% increase over FY99. Dallas placed kiosks in Bedford, East
   Dallas, Corsicana, and Waco, Texas, providing bilingual information and
   forms for all tiers of government offices and services. Four kiosks
   were strategically placed around the Seattle area to encourage and
   ensure citizens with no access to computers the access to government
   services. Passport information, tax information, driver licensing
   requirements, social security information, child support forms,
   official birth certificates and buying a savings bond are examples of
   information that can be obtained. Kiosks were placed at Harborview
   Medical Center, the Tacoma Mall, the Veteran's Administration Puget
   Sound Health Care Hospital, and a large retail store in Centralia,
   Washington. Kansas City placed three kiosks in inner city areas of
   Kansas City, Kansas and Kansas City, Missouri. A Bangor, Maine store
   was the venue for the launch of Greater Boston's first electronic
   government kiosk, in September 2000. The kickoff event included Maine
   Governor Angus King. This kiosk assisted more than 2,000 customers in
   just the first four months. A second kiosk was placed at a New Bedford,
   Massachusetts' supermarket and serviced several thousand customers in
   its first few months. A third kiosk was introduced at the New Haven,
   Connecticut Chapel Square Mall. The South Florida FEB partnered to
   unveil a kiosk to Miami citizens. The kickoff ceremony was aired on two
   Spanish Language channels and CBS. OUTCOME Seven Federal Executive
   Boards strategically placed government kiosks in public areas such as
   large retail stores and shopping malls to bring government services
   closer to people's everyday lives. Thousands of customers have been
   assisted in obtaining basic information and government forms on
   passports, taxes, social security, driver licensing requirements, child
   support forms, birth certificates, and savings bonds. After School
   Fairs Boston, Kansas City, and Seattle hosted After School Fairs in an
   effort to link after school programs with available resources from
   Federal, State, and local agencies. More than 300 after school
   providers and youth workers attended the Boston event, and 20 Federal,
   state, local, and non-profit partners exhibited. Seventeen Federal
   agencies participated in fairs and community forums in Seattle.
   Computers to Schools Albuquerque-Santa Fe, Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston,
   Buffalo, Cincinnati, Honolulu, Miami, Newark, New York, Oklahoma,
   Pittsburgh, San Antonio, and San Francisco FEBs facilitated the
   transfer of educationally useful computers and equipment to schools and
   non-profit organizations. In Albuquerque-Santa Fe, 644 personal
   computers were distributed to educational facilities throughout New
   Mexico; 501 computers were donated to American Indian Training
   Programs; 71 computers were donated to organizations that mentor women
   in the Welfare-to-Work Program; and 72 computers were donated to
   facilities that teach low-income children. Because technology has been
   evolving so rapidly, the Boston FEB often found it difficult to donate
   excess computers and as a result, forged alliances with several
   non-profit recycling and vocational technical programs to upgrade and
   repair equipment at no cost. The Buffalo FEB partnered with Computers
   for Children, Inc., which directly supports donation of computer
   equipment to schools and also provides software and hardware training
   for students. Over 5,000 computers, monitors, and printers were
   donated. OUTCOME FEBs sponsored a wide variety of Student Outreach
   programs including mentoring, job shadowing, and computer donations,
   which benefited thousands of students. Over 5,000 computers and related
   equipment were donated to schools and non-profit organizations. Welfare
   To Work Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Kansas City, Los Angeles, and San
   Antonio continued to provide support to the Welfare to Work initiative.
   Atlanta sponsored four workshops to help individuals hired under the
   welfare to work program to become financially independent. In
   partnership with the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities,
   San Antonio promoted Welfare to Work Continuing Education Grant
   opportunities for local agencies to take advantage of resources
   available to educate/train Federal employees hired under the Welfare to
   Work authority. Kansas City released a second edition of the Welfare to
   Work Resource Guide, with many new chapters, and sponsored a successful
   Mentoring Workshop. Denver and Chicago partnered with SBA to sponsor a
   clothing drive. As an integral part of the Welfare to Work program, the
   Earned Income Tax Campaign was created to increase awareness of this
   Federal tax credit, and Los Angeles has been able to increase
   participation by $20 million in the past 2 years. Premier Lodging
   Program Atlanta, Chicago, New York, and San Antonio began working with
   GSA to establish a Premier Lodging Program, which establishes contracts
   with hotels to guarantee rooms at a set rate within the established per
   diem. Once established, this program will help provide a cost savings
   to the government because of the contractual arrangements of the
   participating hotels. To provide another resource for hotel
   accommodations, the Chicago FEB established an associate membership
   with a private hotel chain, which offers a lodging rate of $99, well
   below the maximum lodging rate of $130. B. Assistance to Our Nation's
   Veterans The Denver, Houston, Newark, Oklahoma, San Antonio, and St.
   Louis FEBs sponsored and supported programs of assistance to veterans.
   The San Antonio FEB produced three cable television shows on veterans'
   issues (Female Veterans' Healthcare, Healthcare for Homeless Veterans,
   and Availability/Eligibility for Veterans' Healthcare). Denver
   introduced a ``One-Day, Once a Month, One-Stop Shopping'' opportunity
   for vets and their families to come to the VA Regional Office for one
   stop shopping for VA services and related services provided by other
   agencies. Oklahoma provided a leadership forum for disabled veterans to
   assist in their transition to work. New Orleans and St. Louis supported
   the Department of Veterans Affairs Stand Down 2000, a nationwide
   initiative to reach homeless veterans and their families to provide
   immediate and long-term support. The Houston FEB worked closely with
   the City of Houston and Local businesses to plan and organize the
   Veterans Day Celebration and parade. Objective 4: Partner with
   Community Groups FEBs partner with community groups to solve problems.
   A. Involvement in Business Associations, Chambers, etc. More than half
   of the FEBs partnered with their Chambers of Commerce to explore areas
   of common interest. Los Angeles renewed membership in both the Los
   Angeles and Long Beach Chamber of Commerce and hosted the Secretary of
   Housing and Urban Development as part of the Long Beach Chamber's
   National Leader Forum. The Philadelphia FEB, in cooperation with the
   Chamber of Commerce, recruited 25 Federal employees for the Chamber's
   Annual MBA in a Day program, saving a total of $2500 by pooling
   registrations. Buffalo joined the Buffalo-Niagara Chamber of Commerce
   and is represented on the Government Affairs Committee and Regional
   Planning Committee. The Cincinnati FEB initiated a partnership with the
   Ohio Rehabilitation Services Commission and Kentucky Bureau of
   Vocational Rehabilitation, aimed at increasing Federal employment
   opportunities for persons with disabilities. Cincinnati built and
   maintains an Internet based database of resumes of applicants who are
   certified for noncompetitive appointment to Federal jobs. Brownfield
   Community Partnerships Baltimore, Cleveland, and Pittsburgh FEBs
   supported Brownfield initiatives in their communities. Brownfields are
   abandoned, idled, or underused industrial and commercial properties
   where expansion or redevelopment is complicated by real or perceived
   contamination. These FEBs are helping to bring together the resources
   of Federal agencies to address local cleanup and reuse issues in a more
   coordinated manner. Baltimore served as a vehicle for information
   sharing and provided meeting space for the Brownfields action group.
   Cleveland is exploring the possibility of creating a Brownfields ``One
   Stop Shop'' Task Force of Federal agencies to assist Northeast Ohio in
   Brownfield redevelopment. Pittsburgh continued its ``Adopt a Town''
   project with Ford City, PA and co-sponsored a high-tech Small Town
   Summit to help other Brownfield communities in small towns and rural
   areas throughout Pennsylvania know what Federal and state help is
   available to revitalize economically depressed areas. To date, Ford
   City has received over $7 million in Federal and state grants. B.
   Student Outreach Twenty FEBs sponsor and participate in a wide variety
   of Student Outreach programs that benefit thousands of students. The
   Los Angeles FEB partnered with the Los Angeles Unified School District
   and assisted them in receiving and implementing a 21st Century Learning
   Grant. Los Angeles helped many other schools to receive grants, and
   partnered with numerous area schools to connect Federal agencies with
   students and existing after school youth programs. Baltimore continued
   to maintain their Educational Support Partnership with the Baltimore
   School System. This partnership involves the provision of 4 educational
   scholarships to graduating high school students and an award to a
   Teacher of the Year for excellence. Member Federal agencies are
   providing lecturers and student mentors at selected schools in
   Baltimore. The Dallas-Fort Worth FEB participated in Federal Career
   Awareness and Mentoring programs in 17 local schools. They also
   partnered with the city and county government children's protection
   agencies to develop the ``Target: Kids in Court Program.'' Over 50
   Federal, state, and local agencies collaborate in this program,
   designed to create positive outcomes for children in the court system.
   The Denver FEB promotes Federal agency and employee participation in
   Pen Pals, an on-line mentoring program. This program matches Federal
   employees with school children teaching them how to write and improve
   their communication skills. The New Orleans FEB sponsored an outreach
   program with a local high school that was held at the USDA, National
   Finance Center. The program included tours, demonstrations, and a game
   show entitled, ``Who Wants To Be a Federal Employee.'' Guest speakers
   included the Mayor of New Orleans, the Public School CEO, a NASA
   astronaut, the Public Affairs Officer for the New Orleans Police
   Department, and other Federal agency heads. This creative program
   resulted in a feature article in the New Orleans Times Picayune
   newspaper. The Boston FEB developed a strong relationship with the
   Citizen Schools after school program by serving as judges for several
   mock trial sessions. Boston continued to promote public service by
   participating in panel discussions for potential Presidential
   Management Interns (PMI) at both Harvard University's Kennedy School of
   Government and Northeastern University. In partnership with OPM, Boston
   hosted a PMI Assessment Center, which included recruiting and
   scheduling all panelists. Los Angeles and Honolulu also provided
   support for the PMI program by recruiting and serving as panelists.
   Boston, Pittsburgh, and Seattle sponsored Job Shadowing Day and/or Take
   Our Children to Work Day events. These events offered students the
   opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge of various career options in
   the Federal Government. C. Charitable Activities Combined Federal
   Campaign (CFC) All FEBs helped to coordinate the CFC in their local
   area. Overall, contributions increased despite reductions in numbers of
   Federal employees. (Appendix B lists CFC contributions by FEB
   location.) The Office of CFC Operations sponsored three Regional CFC
   Workshops and the Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Denver,
   Honolulu, Los Angeles, Minnesota, Newark, Oregon, and San Francisco
   FEBs provided leadership, organizational, and training support to these
   and other CFC activities throughout the year. OUTCOME FEBs promoted
   volunteerism in their communities and Federal employees donated
   thousands of hours, believing that helping others in need has been a
   continuing source of strength to our nation. FEBs further demonstrated
   their commitment to their communities by facilitating the raising of
   more than $68 million for thousands of charities during the annual
   Combined Federal Campaign. D. Donations Food The Albuquerque-Santa Fe,
   Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Cleveland, Newark, Philadelphia,
   Pittsburgh, and South Florida coordinated and promoted food drives in
   their area. Baltimore's annual Harvest for the Hungry Food Drive
   collected nearly 470,000 pounds of food, which was distributed, to
   local shelters and soup kitchens. Albuquerque-Santa Fe collected
   108,411 pounds of food during a Holiday Food Drive and Cleveland
   collected 20,368 pounds of food in a Harvest for the Hungry Food Drive.
   The Pittsburgh FEB and U.S. Postal Service collected 2,462,000 units of
   food, which was the number one ranking for the region. The Atlanta FEB
   co-sponsored, with the USDA Food and Nutrition Service, an interactive
   workshop entitled ``Building Partnerships: A Dialogue About Innovative
   Solutions to Hunger and Poverty.'' The workshop was structured to build
   partnerships among community-based organizations and government
   officials. Toys Dallas, Denver, Newark, San Antonio, and Seattle FEBs
   all participated in toy drives to benefit needy children. Dallas
   sponsored a toy drive that helped 5,000 families, and also collected
   ``therapeutic'' toys for children with special needs. Denver's Holiday
   Gift program collected 8,374 gifts for Headstart children and senior
   citizens. The Seattle FEB collected over 1,000 toys for children in the
   Puget Sound area, and Newark collected 3,000 toys. Blood Thirteen FEBs
   (Baltimore, Buffalo, Chicago, Cleveland, Denver, Detroit, Newark, New
   York, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pittsburgh, San Francisco, and Seattle)
   sponsored blood drives and 46,474 pints were collected. Oklahoma led
   the way with 27,262 pints and other top givers were Baltimore with
   10,000 pints and New York with 2,600. Newark received the Eagle Award
   from the Blood Center in recognition for conducting drives during
   critical times when blood donations are lowest. Seattle sponsored 14
   blood drives and collected 510 pints. Federal employees in Pittsburgh
   donated 1,773 units of blood and were ranked as the fifth largest blood
   donor group in Western Pennsylvania. OUTCOME FEBs contributed to a safe
   and adequate blood supply by sponsoring blood drives that resulted in
   the collection of an impressive 46,474 units. These donations impacted
   almost 139,422 patients because each unit of donated blood is separated
   into three components. E. Volunteerism Local Activities The FEBs served
   as a catalyst to promote and foster opportunities for Federal employees
   to volunteer in their cities and communities. Albuquerque-Santa Fe
   participated in ``Making a Difference Day,'' the nation's largest day
   of volunteering, sponsored by USA Weekend magazine, in partnership with
   the Point of Light Foundation. Chicago, Kansas City, Oregon,
   Pittsburgh, and Seattle, all participated in the ``Day of Caring''
   volunteer event in their cities in partnership with the United Way. In
   Kansas City, 45 Federal agencies volunteered and joined hands with
   private companies and labor unions to complete over 200 projects at
   non-profit community organizations. Two hundred plus Federal employees
   in Oregon volunteered their day to assist their Combined Federal
   Campaign charities. In Pittsburgh, over 200 employees completed
   beautification and improvement projects at a large, heavily visited
   city park, and another 75 employees volunteered to paint five inner
   city homes for lower income families for the ``Paint Your Heart Out
   Pittsburgh'' program. Over 150 employees in Seattle, representing 22
   agencies, volunteered to complete various service projects, including
   food serving, painting, repairs, and construction. In Oklahoma, the FEB
   coordinated and supported four community volunteer events at which 540
   Federal employees gave over 4,747 hours of time. During the World Trade
   Organization Meeting in Seattle, the FEB coordinated 50 volunteers who
   served as liaisons with delegates attending the conference and provided
   significant logistical support. Ten employees served on the Credentials
   Committee and another 4 volunteers served as chauffeurs to transport
   delegates. The San Francisco FEB agreed to pilot a volunteer
   partnership with Junior Achievement of the Bay Area in their efforts to
   provide school-to-career programming for elementary and middle school
   students. During Public Service Recognition Week, Federal employees in
   Denver volunteered to answer phones during a television station auction
   to support the public broadcasting station. Objective 5: Coordinate
   Emergency Services FEBs stand ready to marshal resources of the entire
   Federal community, whether to aid a member agency in a crisis, or to
   assist the citizenry in a public emergency. A. Emergency Plans All FEBs
   coordinate with member agencies regarding Hazardous Weather and
   Emergencies Plans, and many operate an emergency notification system
   that provides current information to local agency heads. B. Special
   Event Support/Natural Disaster Support During the devastating time of
   the Cerro Grande Fire in New Mexico, the Albuquerque-Santa Fe FEB
   assisted and supported the efforts put forth to help the Los Alamos
   fire victims and their community. The fire swept through Los Alamos and
   destroyed over 260 homes, left hundreds of families homeless, torched
   more than 47,000 acres and caused an estimated $1 billion in damage.
   The FEB facilitated a meeting with the Forest Service to provide
   updated information on the fire, answer questions, and to discuss
   lessons learned. The FEB facilitated another meeting with FEMA to
   identify agencies needed to participate in a Committee being formed by
   FEMA to identify what funding assistance and appropriations had been
   provided and to establish a plan to continue providing the support. The
   FEB kept the Federal community and contractor employees informed of
   fire impacts and communicated information on how they could provide
   assistance to the Los Alamos fire situation. Federal employees assisted
   in many ways, including monetary donations, clothing, supplies, blood
   donations, shelter assistance, and numerous volunteer efforts. The U.S.
   Postal Service established an outdoor Post Office where fire victims
   could come each day and collect their mail. The IRS and the Social
   Security Administration provided services at the FEMA Crisis Service
   Center. The Boston FEB hosted a meeting with Federal agencies to brief
   them on the expectations of the world-renowned Sail Boston event. The
   FEB was actively involved in the safety and crowd control forums, as
   more than 2 million visitors converged on Boston for this one-week
   event. The Philadelphia FEB hosted several meetings to plan and be
   prepared for the 2000 Republican National Convention. Agencies were
   briefed as fully as possible on street closures, altered traffic
   patterns, and demonstration intelligence information. The FEB kept up a
   regular stream of faxes related to convention news and beginning the
   first day of the convention sent out high priority e-mail alerts at
   least once a day. The Los Angeles FEB helped to pull together the
   Federal community in preparation for the 2000 Democratic National
   Convention hosted in Los Angeles. This was done by sharing information,
   expertise and resources, and by letting the community know that the
   government was there and working to ensure each individual's safety.
   After a destructive tornado in Georgia, the Atlanta FEB coordinated
   with Federal agencies to ensure that all emergency needs and assistance
   were being met. OUTCOME FEBs responded to security and communication
   needs in their communities during major events, including the World
   Trade Organization Meeting in Seattle, the Republican National
   Convention in Philadelphia, the Democratic National Convention in Los
   Angeles, the world-renowned Sail Boston, and the devastating Cerro
   Grande Fire in New Mexico. C. Security of Federal Facilities/Training
   Newark, New York City, Pittsburgh, and St. Louis all coordinated
   activities and meetings related to the security of Federal buildings.
   Newark provided photo identification badges to employees at the Rodino
   Building. New York developed a long-range plan to secure the Federal
   Center, and security that had been suspended was replaced. During major
   renovations of the Moorhead Federal Building, the Pittsburgh FEB helped
   to establish new security policies. In addition the Pittsburgh FEB
   partnered to update the Occupant Emergency Plan for the Moorhead
   Building and coordinated annual training for over 100 floor safety team
   members. Denver published a booklet with information on how to prepare
   for and what to do in the event of a natural disaster. The booklet was
   distributed to local Federal agencies. Minnesota published and
   distributed an Emergency Preparedness booklet to Federal agencies. The
   Oklahoma FEB created, coordinated, and partnered with Geico to print
   individual emergency telephone cards for every Federal employee in
   Oklahoma. Los Angeles sponsored several training sessions, including
   ``Preventing Workplace Violence.'' Pittsburgh hosted a Personal Safety
   Seminar and also sponsored training on Domestic Terrorism and Bomb
   Threats.
