http://www.academy.jccbi.gov/ama100/main.htm

                              Student Services

   Student Services is the office responsible for helping ensure your stay
       at the Academy is a pleasant one. Student Services is located in
       the Building 14 Room 137, telephone (405) 954-3923. Staffed by
       friendly people, trained to help you with virtually any problem
       that should arise, Student Services is one of the Academys most
       important resources. They will provide assistance related to any
       non-academic area.
       Student Services is open Monday to Friday from 7 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
       Please feel free to drop in anytime to discuss problems you may be
       experiencing. If the staff is not equipped to deal with your
       problem, someone can direct you to people who are so equipped.
       Please contact the MMAC Duty Officer at 954-3583 if you have an
       emergency after normal office hours.
       In the Student Services office, you will find many brochures on
       local attractions and services, Aeronautical Center bus schedules,
       and the housing list. The Student Services office also provides
       employees attending Academy courses access to telephones for
       official business calls and authorized calls home. International
       calls are prohibited. The Student Media Center provides students a
       copier, computers, typewriter, and fax.
       Housing information (including photos), the Student Handbook, the
       bus schedule, and other helpful information is available on the
       Internet and on the Airway Facilities FAA Information Superhighway
       for Training (FIST).
       At the end of your training, you will be provided a Student
       Services survey. You are requested to rate your housing, Student
       Services, and the Academy bus service and provide your suggestions
       and comments.
       Please send your email to Teresa_Rogers@mmacmail.jccbi.gov if you
       have any questions.
