http://satc.gsfc.nasa.gov/tools/index.html

        Software Metrics Research and Development Assurance Tools and
     Techniques Project Support and Outreach Continuous Risk Management

                                  tools.jpg

                               ^Now Available
                             arm95version2_1.gif

   The SATC is working on various assurance tools and techniques
   including:
     * Automated Requirement Measurement (ARM) tool
     * Reusable Software Management Plan
     * IV&V Methodology
     * Waterman Error Trending Model

   The Automated Requirement Measurement (ARM) Tool was developed by the
   SATC for use as an early life cycle aid to identifying sources of
   software risks. It produces metrics and reports which identify areas of
   a requirements specification document that can be improved. ARM’s
   development and experimental use is discussed in the paper "Automated
   Quality Analysis Of Natural Language Requirements", presented at the
   Fourteenth Annual Pacific Northwest Software Quality Conference,
   October, 1996.

   NASA software policies, as detailed in NPD-2820 (replaced NMI 2410.10B
   as of 5/98), require the development of software management plans.
   The SATC has developed a Reusable Software Management Plan, based on
   the DID in the NASA software documentation standard to ease the burden
   of writing SMPs. The Reusable Software Development Plan consists of
   text for a software management plan written in accordance with the
   Management Plan DID of the NASA Software Documentation Standard. It
   includes an on-line help tool for tailoring text to an individual
   software project.

   Software is a critical element in a safety critical system, it is
   imperative to implement a systematic approach to software safety as an
   integral part of the overall system safety programs. The
   NASA-STD-8719.13A "NASA Software Safety Standard", describes the
   activities necessary to ensure that safety is designed into software
   that is acquired or developed by NASA, and that safety is maintained
   throughout the software life cycle. A PDF version, can be obtained by
   clicking here.  Glenn Research Center has developed a NASA Guidebook
   for Safety Critical Software which will assist in the implementation of
   the requirements in the Safety Standard.

          SATC Home Send E-Mail to the SATC NASA Goddard NASA IV+V
                              Copyright © 1998
                    Software Assurance Technology Center
                       This page was last updated on:
                                  01/10/00
