http://www.usphs.gov/html/faqs.html

   buttons
   Frequently Asked Questions
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif]

                         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

   Application

   Compensation

   Education/Licensure

   Former/Current Uniformed Service Members

   Geographical Locations

   Job Opportunities

   Miscellaneous

   Separation Process

   VA Educational Programs

                   ______________________________________



                                Application:

   How do I apply?  Should I apply to the Public Health Service (PHS)
   Commissioned Corps or to the agency/program where I wish to work?

   Applying to the Commissioned Corps is a dual process.  Because the
   Corps does not commission applicants into the inactive reserve and call
   them to duty at a later date the way the military does, an applicant
   needs to be selected for a job to be commissioned.  You must apply both
   to the Commissioned Corps and to the agency/program where you wish to
   work.  The application to the Commissioned Corps is processed by the
   Recruitment and Assignment Branch (RAB), Division of Commissioned
   Personnel, while the actual job application for the advertised vacancy
   is processed by the hiring agency/program.  It is important, therefore,
   to pursue both processes simultaneously.  Once the agency/program has
   selected you for the position and your Commissioned Corps application
   is completely cleared, you will be sent the official offer of the
   position from RAB and called to active duty as a commissioned officer.
   Orders to that effect will then be sent to you.  For further
   information on where commissioned officers work and the liaisons for
   each agency/program, click the Agencies and Programs button on the home
   page.  To learn where commissioned officers in your discipline/category
   work, click the hyperlink to your professional Category on the home
   page.

   What are the entry criteria for joining the PHS Commissioned Corps?

   To be accepted as an applicant for the Commissioned Corps, you must:
     * Be a U.S. citizen;
     * Be under 44 years of age (age may be offset by prior active-duty
       Uniformed Service time and/or civil service work experience in a
       PHS agency at a PHS site at a level commensurate with the duties of
       a commissioned officer);
     * Have served less than 8 years of active duty if you are/were a
       member of another Uniformed Service (Click here to access the
       Former/Current Uniformed Service Members section);
     * Be earning or have earned a qualifying degree from an accredited
       program per the appointment standards for your professional
       discipline (general duty officers cannot be called to active duty
       until they have completed their qualifying degree); and
     * Meet medical and licensure/certification/registration
       requirements.  For information on
       licensure/certification/registration requirements specific to your
       professional discipline, click the hyperlink for your professional
       Category listed on the home page.

   In addition, commissioned officers are required to:
     * Complete a basic suitability clearance.  Some officers, such as
       those hired by the Bureau of Prisons or the Immigration and
       Naturalization Service, are required to complete a higher level
       clearance prior to being called to duty.  Most officers, however,
       will actually begin this process after the call to duty.

   How do I obtain an application and who should I contact if I have
   questions about how to complete it?

   An on-line application is currently being developed.  In the meantime,
   you may download a complete application packet and mail it to:
       Division of Commissioned Personnel
       Attn: Recruitment and Assignment Branch
       5600 Fishers Lane, Room 4A-18
       Rockville, MD 20857-0001

   You may also contact the Recruitment and Assignment Branch at (301)
   594-3360 or (800) 279-1605 during working hours (8:00 am-4:30 pm
   Eastern Time) and request that an application be sent to you.  If
   necessary, please leave a message and your call will be returned.  RAB
   will be glad to assist with any questions you may have on how to
   complete the application.

   Who should I contact if I have questions regarding the status of my
   application?

   You will soon be able to monitor the status of your application, as
   well as update information such as your address and phone numbers,
   on-line.  In the meantime, you may call the Recruitment and Assignment
   Branch at (301) 594-3360 or (800) 279-1605 during working hours (8:00
   am-4:30 pm Eastern Time) to check its status.

   How long does it take to process an application?

   On average, please allow approximately 2 weeks after mailing your
   application before making any phone calls to check on its status.  The
   actual amount of time it takes to process an application is minimal.
   There are variables, however, that may delay this process, such as
   difficulty obtaining an appointment for a physical exam, waiting for an
   inter-service transfer clearance, etc.  In addition, the time it takes
   to process an application depends on its completeness, much of which is
   under your control.  A complete application packet includes the
   application itself, a minimum of three references, official copies of
   college transcripts, and other forms that will be requested by the
   Recruitment and Assignment Branch (RAB) once your initial packet is
   received.  These materials vary from case-to-case and differ according
   to your professional discipline.  The sooner the required forms are
   supplied to RAB, the quicker the application process can be
   completed.

   Back to Top


                                Compensation:

   How much will I earn if I join the PHS Commissioned Corps?

   Compensation varies depending on factors such as grade/rank, years of
   training and experience in your profession, base pay entry date (BPED),
   specialty pay, location of your duty station, and whether or not you
   have dependents.  Basic Pay + Allowances + Special Pay (if eligible) =
   Gross Salary.  For further information, click Grades, Titles and
   Billets and Pay buttons and the hyperlink to your professional Category
   listed on the home page.

   Am I eligible to receive the same benefits that military members
   receive?

   In the majority of cases, benefits are identical for members of all
   seven Uniformed Services.  The Uniformed Services are Army, Navy, Air
   Force, Marines, Coast Guard, the Commissioned Corps of the  National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the U.S. Public
   Health Service (PHS) Commissioned Corps.  For further information,
   click the benefits button on the home page.

   Are bonuses/extra pay offered for agreeing to work in the PHS
   Commissioned Corps for a specified amount of time?

   Officers in some categories are eligible for special pay bonuses and
   monthly special pays if they execute a contract to remain on active
   duty for a designated period of time.  For further information, click
   the hyperlink to your professional Category listed on the home page.

   Will I receive compensation for the cost of moving?

   The hiring agency's/program's finance office will pay travel and
   transportation entitlements associated with relocating an officer and
   his/her dependents.  When called to active duty, you will receive
   information and instructions on this process.  For additional
   assistance, you may contact the agency/program liaison.  For a list of
   agency/program liaisons, click the Agencies and Programs button on the
   home page.  You may also contact the agency/program shipping officer
   for assistance in relocating your household goods.  You should not
   perform any travel or ship any household goods before personnel orders
   have been issued.  Travel and transportation information is now
   available under "Services" on the Division of Commissioned Personnel
   web site at http://dcp.psc.gov.

   Back to Top


                  Former/Current Uniformed Service members:

   How will my prior service in the military affect my pay as a PHS
   commissioned officer?

   Prior service in any of the seven Uniformed Services contributes to
   your years of service for pay and affects your Base Pay Entry Date
   (BPED).  All periods of active and inactive service count toward your
   BPED, with the exception of the following:
     * Delayed Entry Programs;
     * Schooling received at one of the U.S. military academies or the
       Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences; and
     * ROTC participation

   In order to receive proper credit for prior service, you must submit
   official paperwork proving the dates of service. The most complete form
   of proof is a Statement of Service which may be completed on a PHS-6134
   form or on an equivalent Department of Defense form. This Statement of
   Service should show the date appointed, the date called to duty, the
   date separated from duty, and the date discharged for any periods of
   service performed.  If you cannot obtain a complete Statement of
   Service, a complete record of retirement points may be used.  However,
   the time credited may not be entirely accurate due to the use of
   anniversary dates instead of actual service dates on these reports.  A
   DD-214 is only proof of the most recent period of active duty and does
   not show a service member's entire record.  If you cannot obtain a
   complete Statement of Service or complete record of retirement points,
   a DD-214 may be used, but other supporting documentation such as a copy
   of the original appointment document, copies of short tour orders, and
   discharge orders will be needed.  None of these forms are acceptable
   for proof without the authentication of the official in charge of your
   military records -- you may not complete the forms yourself and submit
   them.

   If this information is not provided at the time of call to duty, it may
   be submitted at any time thereafter. Your BPED and pay will be amended
   retroactive to your call to active duty date.

   How will my prior service in the military affect my retirement credit?

   Prior active duty service in any of the seven Uniformed Services
   contributes to your Retirement Credit Date (RCD or RED) unless that
   active duty was one of the following:
     * Schooling received at one of the U.S. military academies or the
       Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences;
     * ROTC participation; or
     * Weekend drills.

   In addition, the following do not count towards retirement credit, no
   matter how they are credited in other Uniformed Services:
     * Inactive duty retirement points.

   In order to receive proper credit for prior service, you must submit
   the same forms listed in the answer above.  It is vital that paperwork
   submitted show all dates of active service, or time may not be credited
   properly.  Again, if this information is not provided at the time of
   call to duty, it may be submitted at any time thereafter.  Your RCD
   will be amended retroactive to your call to active duty date.

   How will my prior service in the military affect my rank when I join
   the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps?

   Unless you perform an official Inter-service transfer (see below), your
   rank will be determined according to the regulations of the Public
   Health Service.  Prior service in any of the Uniformed Services will
   not affect your starting rank except as creditable training and
   experience (T & E) time.  If your service in a Uniformed Service was
   performed after receipt of your qualifying degree and was in your
   field, you will get credit towards T & E equivalent to full-time work
   in your field (or equivalent part-time work if you were not on
   full-time active duty).  If your service in a Uniformed Service was
   after receipt of your qualifying degree but was not in your field, you
   will be given one-quarter time towards your T & E.  If your Uniformed
   Service was before the receipt of your qualifying degree, that time
   will not count towards T&E at all.

   Am I able to do an Inter-service transfer (IST)?  If so, how does it
   affect the above, and what do I need to do?

   An IST is a specific kind of move from one Uniformed Service to another
   and is governed by Department of Defense Directive Number 1300.4.  An
   officer must be on active duty in order to perform the IST and the
   approval must be sent through official channels up through the
   Secretary of the Uniformed Service.  Details on the format of the
   request and procedures to follow can be found in the Commissioned Corps
   Personnel Manual issuance, CCPM 23.3, Instruction 5, "Inter-service
   Transfer of Commissioned Officers."

   An officer performing an IST will retain his/her current pay rank when
   joining the Public Health Service (PHS) Commissioned Corps.  This
   differs from the other methods of joining the PHS Commissioned Corps
   because an officer can potentially start with a rank higher than
   his/her training and experience (T & E) credit would normally allow.
   An extreme example of this would be a Major (O-4) who has been an
   engineer in the army but only just obtained a B.S. degree from an
   accredited college or university.  If joining the PHS by a method other
   than IST, this applicant would only be paid as an O-2, but joining via
   IST, this officer would still be paid as an O-4.  There are very rare
   instances of this rule acting to the detriment of an officer.  In these
   cases it is to the officer's benefit to request a discharge (or a
   release from active duty (sometimes referred to as REFRAD) and then a
   conditional release from the inactive reserves) from the other service
   rather than an IST.  That way, the applicant's rank would be calculated
   strictly according to the PHS regulations instead of relying on his/her
   military rank.

   An officer performing an IST will also transfer over to the same
   component they belonged to in the military.  This means that an officer
   currently in the Regular corps of the other service will transfer into
   the Regular corps of the PHS Commissioned Corps, instead of having to
   wait the necessary period of time and applying for entry into the
   Regular corps.

   When an officer performs an IST and travel is required from his/her
   prior duty station to the new PHS duty station, the officer is entitled
   not only to his/her travel entitlements under the Joint Federal Travel
   Regulations, but also to the dislocation allowance that is normally
   related to a Permanent Change of Station move.

   Finally, it is mandatory that the officer's annual leave balance be
   transferred to the PHS Commissioned Corps.  Once the IST personnel
   order is cut, a letter will be sent to the losing service informing
   them of the IST effective date and requesting copies of the officer's
   separation orders and annual leave balance.  Once that information is
   received in Division of Commissioned Personnel, a memo with that leave
   balance is forwarded to the officer's agency to add their prior balance
   to their current annual leave.

   All other benefits given to officers with prior Uniformed Service time
   will be the same for those who perform an IST.

   Back to Top


                             Job Opportunities:

   Where can I work?

   Officers in the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps work in a
   variety of settings.  They work in the eight Operating Divisions
   (OPDIVs) that comprise the health agencies of the Department of Health
   and Human Services (HHS):
     * Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality;
     * Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry;
     * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
     * Food and Drug Administration;
     * Health Resources and Services Administration;
     * Indian Health Service;
     * National Institutes of Health; and
     * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration;

   as well as other OPDIVs within HHS including:
     * Health Care Financing Administration;
     * Office of Public Health and Science; and
     * Program Support Center.

   Commissioned Corps officers also work in other Federal
   agencies/programs that include the following:
     * Bureau of Prisons;
     * District of Columbia Commission on Mental Health Services (formerly
       St. Elizabeths Hospital);
     * Environmental Protection Agency;
     * Immigration and Naturalization Service;
     * National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
     * National Park Service;
     * U.S. Coast Guard; and
     * U.S. Marshals Service.

   To inquire about opportunities, click the
   Jobs, Other Federal Job Links button on the home page.

   How do I find a job and are there career counselors available to assist
   me?

   A list of job vacancies is available on the Division of Commissioned
   Personnel's web site at http://dcp.psc.gov.  For questions about the
   agency/program vacancy position,  you may call the individual(s) listed
   on the vacancy announcement.  For a list of agency/program liaisons,
   click the Agencies/Programs button on the home page.  For a list of
   agency/program contacts specific to your profession, click the
   hyperlink for your professional Category listed on the home page.  You
   may also call the Recruitment and Assignment Branch at (800) 279-1605
   for assistance and guidance.

   Back to Top


                           Geographical Locations:

   Is there opportunity for mobility through a change in geographical
   location?

   There are many opportunities for serving in the Commissioned Corps
   throughout the Nation.  Officers may choose to work within the same
   agency/program or they may choose to transfer to other
   agencies/programs across the country.  The Corps supports an officer's
   pursuit of diverse work experiences and career advancement.  Geographic
   mobility may allow officers to achieve this.  An officer may move
   frequently throughout his/her career but a minimum assignment of 2
   years at each duty station is expected.

   How often does the PHS Commissioned Corps require an officer to change
   geographic locations?

   There are no specific requirements as to the frequency of moves that an
   officer must make during his/her career.  Mobility is important for
   promotion but it is not required on a specific schedule.

   How do I find out which agencies/programs are available in a specific
   location?

   A U.S. map will be available on-line soon that will allow
   applicants/officers to learn the various locations of each
   agency/program throughout the country.  In the meantime, you may access
   the list of job vacancies on the Division of Commissioned Personnel's
   job database.  You may also click the Jobs, Other Federal Job Links
   button on the home page.

   Back to Top


                            Education/Licensure:

   Is certification and/or licensure required for entry into the PHS
   Commissioned Corps?

   Depending on an officer's  professional category, an applicant must
   possess a current and unrestricted license or other professional
   certificate appropriate for his/her profession in any of the 50 States,
   Washington D.C., the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
   Islands or Guam.  New graduates in certain professional categories who
   have not yet taken their boards for
   licensure/certification/registration may be activated into the
   Commissioned Corps for a 1-year license-limited tour.  Note that due to
   specific pre-licensure experience requirements, new Social Work
   graduates are given 3-year license-limited tours.  In addition,
   Clinical Psychologists may be given license-limited tours of up to
   three years due to varying state licensure requirements.  For Clinical
   Psychologists, the hiring agency must submit a request for the specific
   length of limitation in the form of a memo accompanying their request
   for personnel action (PHS-1662).  At the end of that time, evidence of
   licensure/certification/registration, as appropriate, is required for
   removal of the limitation and for retention in the Corps.  Nurse
   officers, however, must hold a current, unrestricted license.  There
   are no license-limited tours for nurse officers.  For further
   information about the category-specific requirements for
   licensure/certification/registration, click the hyperlink to your
   professional Category listed on the home page or go to Commissioned
   Corps Personnel Manual, INSTRUCTION 4, Subchapter 23.3.

   Is there a certain level of education required in order to be eligible
   for the PHS Commissioned Corps?

   Each professional category has specific entry level education
   requirements and no category accepts less than a completed
   baccalaureate level degree as the minimum requirement.  For additional
   information, click the hyperlink for your professional Category listed
   on the home page.

   Are there opportunities to further my education and/or earn continuing
   education credits while on active duty in the PHS Commissioned Corps?

   The agencies and programs where commissioned officers are assigned
   support both short-term and long-term training.

   Short-Term Training must be approved by the agency or program where the
   officer works (approval from the Division of Commissioned Personnel
   (DCP) is not required) and includes:
     * full-time training that does not exceed 30 consecutive days or a
       total of 90 calendar days in a fiscal year (October 1 - September
       30); and
     * part-time training that does not exceed 70 hours in attendance in a
       30-day period or a total of 210 hours in attendance in a fiscal
       year.

   Long-Term Training must be approved by the agency or program and DCP
   and includes:
     * all units or courses in a planned educational program leading to an
       academic degree, whether taken full time, part-time, continuously,
       or intermittently; and
     * training, including internships, residencies, or fellowships which
       exceeds the period that is specified as short-term training.

   The principal reason for long-term training must be to benefit the
   PHS.  Intramural long-term training does not require a payback
   obligation; extramural long-term training requires a two-for-one
   payback obligation at the completion of the officer's training with the
   agency/program that supported the long-term training unless that
   agency/program is willing to release the officer to another
   agency/program.  All long-term training requests for the next academic
   year are due in the DCP by March 31 each year.  A Manual Circular on
   long-term training is sent annually to all active-duty officers.  For
   an application and any questions regarding training issues, call Betsy
   Darracott at (301) 594-3352 or (877) 463-6327 and listen to the
   prompts.

   All Commissioned Corps applicants being called to active duty into
   training, as well as officers currently on active duty, are required to
   be on training personnel orders prior to entering their training
   program as well as transferring to another site after the completion of
   their training.

   If I just completed school, may I submit my application prior to
   obtaining professional licensure and/or certification?

   You are encouraged to submit your application to the Commissioned Corps
   before you graduate.  New graduates of many professions may become
   commissioned officers for a 1-year license-limited tour.  At the end of
   that time, proof of licensure/certification/registration is required
   for removal of the limitation and for retention in the Corps.  For
   further information, click the hyperlink to your professional Category
   listed on the home page.

   Back to Top


                             Separation Process

   What must I do to separate from the PHS Commissioned Corps?

   When separating from the PHS Commissioned Corps, you may choose either
   to terminate (sever all ties to the PHS), transfer to another Uniformed
   Service, or inactivate.  Call the Officer Support Branch, Division of
   Commissioned Personnel, at (301) 594-3544 and request a separation
   packet which includes form PHS-1373, "Separation of Commissioned
   Officer".  Complete part A and send the original (top sheet) directly
   to the Division of Commissioned Personnel (DCP) so that the form will
   be received at least 30 days prior to the last day you will be
   physically present at your duty station. This form may be faxed to DCP
   using either (301) 443-5466 or (301) 594-2711.  Parts B and C must be
   routed through channels and completed by your immediate supervisor or
   other program officials who will also certify your leave record (form
   PHS-31), complete other administrative actions connected with your
   separation, and send the completed form to DCP.

   If you wish to take
   terminal leave, submit form PHS-1345, "Request and Authority for Leave
   of Absence," to your leave granting authority for approval.  Terminal
   leave is any annual leave approved before but taken after submission of
   form PHS-1373.  If you do not request approval for this leave prior to
   submitting form PHS-1373, you cannot take any annual leave between that
   time and the date you leave active duty (except for bona fide
   emergencies).  If, for example, separation from active duty is
   requested effective June 30 and you plan to take 30 days of terminal
   leave, the last day you will be physically present at your duty station
   will be May 31.  Therefore, your form PHS-1373 must be received in DCP
   no later than May 1.

   You may elect to take a separation physical examination or waive such
   an exam.  If you elect to take one, you are responsible for scheduling
   it, either through a military treatment facility or with
   preauthorization from the
   Beneficiary Medical Program, DCP, at (800) 368-2777, ext. 2.  It is to
   your advantage to have an exam upon separation (unless a physical exam
   was performed within 6 months of your requested separation date) since
   the exam serves to protect any future entitlements for benefits
   provided by VA.  It is important that your medical status at the time
   of separation from active duty be documented in your official medical
   file maintained in DCP.

   When DCP has completed the processing of your separation request, a
   personnel order authorizing your separation will be issued to you.
   When you receive your separation personnel order, you may begin making
   arrangements for travel and transportation of your household goods as
   authorized on the personnel order and in accordance with the Joint
   Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR).  You and your dependents cannot
   travel at government expense nor can you ship, store, or release your
   household goods to a mover until your official separation personnel
   orders authorizing shipment of household goods are issued.  Authorized
   travel and transportation must be completed within 180 days following
   your date of separation from active duty.  Shipment of your household
   goods must have begun within this 180-day limitation.

   Words of Caution

   Unlike the military, officers in the Commissioned Corps of the Public
   Health Service do not sign contracts to serve for specific lengths of
   time. An officer may leave the service after any length of time but
   should keep in mind that there are certain conditions that must be met
   in order to retain all of the entitlements available to a separating
   officer. The most common entitlements lost are the use of or payment
   for lump sum annual leave, or travel and transportation entitlements.
   The rules governing these conditions are as follows:
     * You will be divested (see below) of payment for, denied transfer
       of, and denied use of your unused annual leave and you will be
       divested of all travel and transportation entitlements (including
       payment for shipment of household goods) for you and your
       dependents if:

     * you fail to fulfill a service obligation (including but not limited
       to those incurred from special pay contracts or participation in
       long-term training); or
     * you are indebted to the Federal government for any of the reasons
       above; or
     * you voluntarily separate from active duty before completion of 12
       months of active duty.

       *Keep in mind that for any of the reasons listed above, it is
       unlikely that you will be allowed to inactivate your commission. In
       the case of breaking a special pay contract, your commission will
       be terminated as is stated on both the contract originally signed
       and the personnel order authorizing the special pay.

     You will be divested (see below) of payment for, denied transfer of,
   and denied use of your unused annual leave if:
     * your form PHS-1373 is not received in DCP at least 30 days prior to
       the last day that you are physically present at your duty station.


     * You will be divested of all travel entitlements for you and your
       dependents and of payment for shipment of household goods if:

     * you separate from active duty after completion of more than 12
       months but less than 24 months of active duty.

   *If you are divested of unused annual leave, you will not be allowed to
   take or be granted terminal leave.  If your leave-granting authority
   approves terminal leave without knowing that you are to be divested,
   and you have departed your last duty station on terminal leave, you
   will be ordered back to duty for the balance of your time.  If you fail
   to report back to duty, you will be placed in Absent Without Leave
   (AWOL) status.  While in AWOL status, you forfeit all pay and
   allowances, you are not eligible for medical care or disability
   benefits, and you will not be reimbursed for any travel and shipping
   costs.  In addition, the time in AWOL does not count toward completion
   of an active-duty obligation.  Therefore, it is your responsibility to
   know the reasons for which you may be divested of your entitlements and
   whether one of these reasons applies in your case.

   What is terminal leave?

   Terminal leave is any annual leave approved before but taken after
   submission of form PHS-1373.  Under PHS policy, you may be approved for
   an amount of terminal leave which does not exceed the number of days of
   unused annual leave that would otherwise be credited to you upon the
   date of your separation from active duty.

   Since terminal leave is not an entitlement, your leave-granting
   authority may approve or deny your request based on your program's
   staffing needs.  If your request for terminal leave is approved, submit
   the completed and approved form PHS-1345 to your leave maintenance
   clerk.  The leave maintenance clerk will balance your leave record
   through your separation date, certify the leave record, and send it
   forward for processing of your lump sum leave payment for any unused
   annual leave.

   Terminal leave includes each day, other than authorized travel time,
   after the last day that you are physically present at your duty
   station.  For example, if your last day at your duty station is a
   Friday, and you are approved for terminal leave, that leave will
   commence on Saturday even though Saturday may normally be a nonwork
   day.

   Once you submit your form PHS-1373, you cannot request annual leave
   except for emergency purposes, e.g., a death in the family.  If leave
   is approved for emergency purposes, DCP must be notified immediately by
   telegram so that appropriate adjustments may be made to your annual
   leave record and lump sum payment.

   If you decide not to take approved terminal leave, you will still be
   charged for the leave unless

   the approved leave was revoked by the leave-granting authority because
   of program staffing needs or you become ill while on terminal leave.
   In either case, your leave-granting authority must notify the Officer
   Support Branch (OSB) immediately by telegram so that appropriate
   adjustments may be made to your annual leave record.  You must submit
   certification from a physician to your leave-granting authority if you
   want terminal leave changed to sick leave.

   What about travel arrangements and transportation expenses when
   separating?

   If you are separating from extended active duty (2 or more years of
   active duty) and have completed any active duty obligation, travel for
   you and your dependents, and transportation of your household effects,
   will be authorized on your separation personnel orders.

   All travel on common carriers must be in coach class on a Government
   contract carrier. Dislocation allowance is not payable upon separation.

   Your Travel: If authorized, you will receive a transportation allowance
   as prescribed by the Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR) for travel
   you actually perform incident to your separation from PHS.  You must
   designate as your destination either your
   home of record or the place from which you were called to active duty.
   The designation of one of these points or a location of a lesser
   distance than the home of record or place from which called to active
   duty, does not prohibit your travel to another place, but you must pay
   any excess costs incurred by travel to a different place.  The
   designated location will be shown on your personnel order as
   "authorized travel to..."

   Per diem is payable for the number of days actually used for the
   travel, not to exceed the authorized travel time.  The amount of travel
   time you are authorized will be based on the distance from your current
   duty station to either the place from which you were called to active
   duty or your home of record.  Travel time will be computed by DCP to
   begin the day following any approved terminal leave or the last day you
   are physically present at your duty station if no terminal leave has
   been approved.  For those officers serving on limited tours (tours of
   active duty with "not to exceed" dates), you may not serve on active
   duty past the "not to exceed date" and therefore will have travel time
   added prior to the date of separation as your pay continues and you are
   considered an active duty officer during authorized travel time.

   Your Dependents' Travel: Your eligible dependents will be entitled to
   transportation allowances to the place specified in your separation
   personnel order, or a place of lesser distance, only if they actually
   perform the travel to that location to establish a residence.

   Payment of Travel: You will not be paid for travel until you submit
   your travel voucher(s) to the finance office serving your last duty
   station.  Vouchers are required for your travel and the travel of your
   dependents.  For your travel, use form SF-1012, "Travel Voucher", and
   list your dependents' travel expenses on the same form.  You must also
   complete form PHS-2988, "Voucher for Reimbursement for Travel -
   Dependents of PHS Commissioned Officers", for your dependents' travel.
   When you submit your travel voucher(s) for payment, you must include a
   copy of your separation personnel order.

   Shipment of Household Goods: Unless stated otherwise, the authority to
   travel as set forth on your separation personnel orders includes
   authorization to ship your household goods.

   Deadlines: Authorized travel and transportation must be completed
   within 180 days following your date of separation from active duty.
   Shipment of your household goods must have begun within this 180-day
   limitation.  You may not, however, ship, store, or release household
   goods to a mover until you have received your official separation
   personnel order.  If you have a need to expedite your travel, you may
   request a faxed copy of your personnel order from your agency liaison
   office.

   What do I do with my ID card after I separate from the PHS?

   At the time you are separated from active duty, you must surrender all
   Uniformed Services identification (ID) cards issued to you and your
   dependents.  The cards should be delivered to the ID card issuing
   official or the personnel office for the activity to which you are
   assigned.  If you leave your duty station prior to the date of actual
   separation, as is the case with officers going on terminal leave, and
   you will not be near your administrative office on the date of actual
   separation, you must return all Uniformed Services ID cards to the
   appropriate office through the mail.  The ID cards must be returned by
   registered mail, return receipt requested, as close to the date of
   separation as possible.

   Will I be eligible for any medical coverage?

   You and your dependents lose all eligibility for medical care under the
   Uniformed Services Health Benefits Program (USHBP) as of midnight on
   the date you are separated from active duty.  This includes loss of
   entitlement to benefits under TRICARE.  You will have no health care
   coverage after separation, either for yourself or your family, until
   you take out a health insurance policy on your own as an individual, or
   until you are enrolled in a group health insurance program offered by
   your future employer.

   Temporary continued health benefits coverage to qualified beneficiaries
   is available through the
   Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP).  Medical benefits under
   this program will mirror the benefits offered via the basic TRICARE
   STANDARD program.  The CHCBP is not part of the TRICARE program;
   however, it functions under most of the rules and procedures of
   TRICARE.

   Will I be given some form that documents my service in the PHS
   Commissioned Corps?

   After separation from active duty, you are automatically issued a PHS
   "Statement of Service".  This form is accepted by the VA as proof of
   active duty service in the PHS Commissioned Corps and is the key
   document you must provide to establish entitlement to most VA
   benefits.  It is the PHS equivalent of the Form DD-214, "Armed Forces
   of the U.S. Report of Transfer or Discharge."  Do not release the
   original of the PHS "Statement of Service"; retain it for your personal
   records.

   If you believe that your "Statement of Service" is incorrect, you must
   return the original in order to obtain a corrected statement. An
   officer is never issued more than one original "Statement of Service"
   for each period of active duty.

   The "Statement of Service" is mailed to the "forwarding address" you
   provide on your PHS-1373. If you change your address prior to your
   actual separation date, you must provide a change of address to DCP, or
   you will not receive your "Statement of Service" or your end-of-year
   tax documents
   .

   How will I be paid for my unused leave?

   Upon leaving active service, you will receive all pay and allowances
   due you.  When authorized, your lump sum payment will be based on the
   amount of unused annual leave to your credit at the time of separation,
   not to exceed 60 days.  It will be computed at the rate of your
   active-duty pay on the day of separation and will include only your
   basic pay, and subsistence and quarters allowances.  Payment will not
   include any other elements of pay, such as variable housing allowance
   or special pay.  Payment of unused annual leave cannot be made until
   DCP receives your leave records, and will not be made until the month
   following the month you are released from active duty (including travel
   time).  If you feel your lump sum leave payment has been unduly
   delayed, you should contact your agency liaison office first to see if
   they have forwarded the leave record cards to DCP.

   There is a lifetime limit of 60 days on the amount of unused annual
   leave for which you may be paid after February 9, 1976.  This limit
   applies to lump sum leave payments from all Uniformed Services.
   Therefore, if you receive payment for 60 days of unused annual leave
   from PHS at separation, you are ineligible for any future lump sum
   leave payment from any Uniformed Service.  You may be divested of
   unused annual leave if you are separating from active duty under
   certain conditions (refer to
   Words of Caution).


                                INACTIVATING

   Inactivating allows you to retain your commission in the PHS
   Commissioned Corps through an appointment in the inactive reserve
   corps.  The purpose of the inactive reserve corps is to maintain a pool
   of highly-trained health professionals for recall during national
   emergencies and for ongoing agency/program support.  Officers volunteer
   for the inactive reserve corps, and recalls to active duty are with the
   consent of the officer unless the President, by Executive Order,
   declares the PHS Commissioned Corps to be a military service.  For the
   duration of such an Executive Order, all Corps officers would be
   subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice and could be ordered to
   active duty at the discretion of the Department of Health and Human
   Services (HHS).  The PHS Commissioned Corps was last militarized from
   1945 to 1952.

   Benefits for inactive reserve officers include:
     * Continued affiliation with the PHS Commissioned Corps;
     * Consideration for return to active duty upon written request and a
       limited application process (see Returning to Active Duty Into the
       PHS Commissioned Corps;
     * Accrual of longevity credit for pay upon return to active duty in
       any of the Uniformed Services (e.g., officers with 2 years of
       active duty and 8 years of inactive reserve time are eligible for
       basic pay at the over 10-year level); and
     * Recall to active duty for short tours*, and intermittent tours of
       active duty as available.  Officers indicating availability for
       short tours will be notified of tours and dates with as much
       advance notice as possible.

   There is no retirement program for officers in the inactive reserve.
   They are also not eligible for commissary or PX privileges, Space-A
   flights, or Uniformed Services healthcare except during periods of
   active duty for which a personnel order is issued.

   It is very important that the  inactive reserve officer keep the
   Division of Commissioned Personnel (DCP) informed of his/her current
   address, licensure, telephone numbers, medical, and employment status.
   If DCP is unable to locate the inactive reserve officer or if the
   officer fails to respond to correspondence as requested within the
   allotted time, the commission as an inactive reserve officer can be
   terminated automatically.

   The individual ready reserves (IRR) is a subset of the inactive
   reserves.

   Officers agree to serve on active duty for a minimum of 2 weeks over a
   2-year period in PHS programs across the country.  Tours generally run
   from 14 - 120 days and bring much needed services to the underserved
   and unserved populations throughout the U.S.

   *Special rules apply for Federal civil servants who are in the inactive
   reserve corps and are called to active duty.  He/she must either give
   up his/her federal civil service position or be called to active duty
   without pay.  An inactive reserve corps officer cannot be called to
   active duty with pay, even if he or she is on leave-without-pay from a
   federal civil service position.  If the inactive reserve corps officer
   who is a federal employee is interested in serving on a tour, the
   officer must use administrative or annual leave from his or her federal
   agency.   Although he cannot receive PHS pay and allowances, the agency
   calling him or her to active duty is permitted to authorize travel and
   transportation allowances.


           RETURNING TO ACTIVE DUTY IN THE PHS COMMISSIONED CORPS

   If currently in the Inactive Reserve, former PHS Commissioned Corps
   officers may reactivate by doing the following:
     * Submit a request to reactivate.  The request should include your
       name, phone number, fax number (if available), e-mail address,
       information regarding any specific job the officer will be hired
       into including the hiring agency and expected start date, and
       should be sent to:

   Division of Commissioned Personnel
   Attn: Recruitment and Assignment Branch
   5600 Fishers Lane, Room 4A-18
   Rockville, MD 20857-0001

   Provide a current curriculum vitae or resume covering their work
   experience from the date of inactivation to present. This should
   include the number of hours worked per week and a brief description of
   duties performed, and all dates should be in a month/year format;
     * Provide three (3) current references including one from the
       applicant's current supervisor. If the applicant has been inactive
       for fewer than six (6) months, this requirement is usually waived;
       and
     * Provide a photocopy of your current professional license.
     * Contact RAB's medical evaluation staff at 1-800-279-1605 or
       301-594-3360 to find out whether a full physical or specific
       updates are required.

   Upon receipt of the reopen request, RAB will reopen the officer's file
   and request any additional information such as updated transcripts,
   then await the arrival of the PHS-1662 (Request for Personnel Action)
   from the hiring agency. At that time, if the file is completely
   cleared, the officer will receive a letter of acceptance similar to the
   one from their initial commissioning. Once the response to the
   acceptance is received in RAB, personnel orders will be issued and
   mailed to the officer.


            CONTINUED HEALTH CARE BENEFIT PROGRAM (CHCBP) SUMMARY

   What is the CHCBP?

   The Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP) is a program of
   temporary health benefit coverage for certain eligible individuals who
   lose military health benefits.  The CHCBP is premium based, with the
   medical benefits under this program mirroring the benefits offered in
   the TRICARE Standard Program and functioning under most of the rules
   and procedures of TRICARE Standard.

   Are there specific enrollment requirements?

   Yes.  Beneficiaries must elect coverage in the CHCBP within 60 days
   following:
     * Loss of entitlement to the Military Health System; or
     * Being notified of the CHCBP.

   Beneficiaries may not select the effective date of their CHCBP policy;
   the period of coverage must begin on the day after loss of military
   entitlement.

   Who is eligible?
     * The sponsor;
     * Dependents of the sponsor if the sponsor is enrolled;
     * Certain unremarried former spouses;
     * child who loses military benefits due to his or her age; and
     * child placed in the legal custody of the sponsor.

   What are the enrollment categories?

   CHCBP provides two types of coverage plans: individual and family.
   Individual coverage is available to the sponsor, an unremarried former
   spouse, and a child losing military benefits due to age.  Family
   coverage is only available to the separating service member and his or
   her dependents.  Once the election is made, the sponsor's enrollment
   category can be changed from individual to family coverage under the
   following conditions:
     * Birth of a child;
     * Marriage of the sponsor;
     * Legal adoption of a child by the sponsor; or
     * Placement by a court of a child as a legal ward in the home of the
       sponsor.

   If one of the above events has occurred, the former member can change
   his or her enrollment from individual to family coverage, effective as
   of the date of the qualifying event.  The sponsor must send a written
   request to the CHCBP Administrator no later than 60 days from the
   qualifying event and must include sufficient documentation to support
   the change in enrollment categories.

   How does one enroll in the CHCBP?

   In order to enroll in the CHCBP, an eligible individual must submit a
   completed enrollment application form, proof of eligibility, and
   payment in full for the first 90 days of coverage (check or money order
   made payable to the U.S. Treasury).

   Proof of eligibility:

   The following three documents are acceptable to prove eligibility for
   the CHCBP:
     * DD214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty";
     * Final divorce decree;
     * DD1173, "Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card".

   Additional information and documentation may be requested to confirm
   the applicant's eligibility.

    How long is coverage offered?

   CHCBP coverage ranges from a period of 18 to 36 months, depending on
   the category of the beneficiary.  Former active duty members and their
   family members are entitled to purchase up to 18 months of coverage.
   All other eligible beneficiaries are entitled to 36 months of
   coverage.  Certain former spouses may be eligible for coverage beyond
   36 months.  All former spouses should review the criteria for extended
   coverage before enrolling in CHCBP to determine their eligibility for
   continued coverage beyond 36 months.  CHCBP coverage is offered in
   increments of 90 days, renewable up to the total number of months
   referenced above.

   What does CHCBP coverage cost?

   The cost of CHCBP coverage depends on the category of enrollment,
   either individual or family.  The premium for individual coverage is
   $933.00 per quarter and the premium for family coverage is $1,996.00
   per quarter.

   Are premiums refundable?

   Premium refunds are only available in three cases.  The first case is
   former active-duty members recalled to active duty.  The second is
   former spouses who remarry.  These two groups would receive a prorated
   refund from the time of their loss of eligibility for the program to
   the end of the enrollment period.  The third case is those enrollees
   who prepay their premiums and elect to disenroll prior to the start of
   the enrollment period.

   What benefits are offered?

   Health care coverage under the CHCBP mirrors the coverage of the
   TRICARE Standard benefit, which covers a majority of medical
   conditions.  However, for some types of treatment, coverage can be
   limited.  Prior to enrolling in the CHCBP, interested beneficiaries are
   encouraged to contact a TRICARE Service Center to ask specific
   questions regarding TRICARE Standard coverage.

   What additional costs are there?

   When medical care is received, the beneficiary will be responsible for
   payment of certain deductible and cost-sharing amounts in connection
   with otherwise covered services and supplies.  For detailed information
   concerning the amounts of cost-shares and deductibles, beneficiaries
   are encouraged to contact a TRICARE Service Center nearest their home.

   What steps should active duty members take when separating from the
   military?

   Current active duty members anticipating separation from the military
   should ensure they participate in pre-separation counseling, which will
   provide information regarding various benefits available to members
   after leaving the military.  Former members must also ensures that
   their correct status is recorded in DEERS upon separation.

   How to obtain information about CHCBP:

   The CHCBP Administrator provides administrative and educational support
   for the CHCBP.  As part of this effort, they operate a toll-free line
   24 hours a day.  Customer Service Representatives are available Monday
   through Friday 8 am to 5 pm Eastern Time (except holidays).  After
   regular business hours, callers may listen to general information about
   the CHCBP Program or leave a message requesting that an application
   package be mailed to them.

   For additional information, write or call:

   CHCBP Administrator
   P.O. Box 1608
   Rockville, MD 20849-1608
   (800) 809-6119

   Back to Top


                           VA Educational Programs

   What is the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB)?

   The MGIB program is an educational benefit administered by the
   Department of Veterans Affairs.  It provides up to 36 months of
   education benefits to eligible individuals.   This benefit may be used
   for degree and certificate programs, flight training,
   apprenticeship/on-the-job training and correspondence courses.
   Remedial, deficiency, and refresher courses may be approved under
   certain circumstances.  Generally, benefits are payable for 10 years
   following your release from active duty.

   If I join the PHS Commissioned Corps, why would I want to participate
   in the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB) if I already have an undergraduate and
   graduate degree?

   The reasons for participating may include the following:
     * The cost of participating in the MGIB is only $1,200 (usually $100
       is deducted monthly from your pay check for 12 months) (For
       information on how much the Department of Veterans Affairs pays,
       see question pertaining to that below);
     * You may wish to pursue a second undergraduate or graduate degree or
       you may wish to enhance your current skills; and
     * You have up to 10 years after you terminate from active duty in
       which to use your educational benefits.  These can be used for
       education courses through institutions of higher learning or
       training courses through vocational programs approved for veteran
       training.

   When can I start using my educational benefits?

   You may begin using your educational benefits after completing 24
   months of continuous active duty in a Uniformed Service.

   How do I find out if a particular program is approved?

   The easiest way is to call the school offering the training and ask to
   speak with the person who handles veterans' certifications.  You may
   also call (888) GI-BILL-1 and speak with a representative.

   How much does the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) pay?

   Under current laws, VA education benefit payments are based on both the
   rate of training, such as full-time, 3/4 time,  time, and on the
   length of your training.  If you serve in a Uniformed Service less than
   3 years, you are eligible for $528 per month for full-time training (a
   total of $19,008 for a $1200 investment).  If you serve 3 years or
   more, you are eligible for $650 per month for full-time training (a
   total of $23,400 for a $1200 investment).  In addition, recent
   legislature allows an active-duty member to contribute an additional
   $600 which will result in greater benefits.  More information about
   this will be forthcoming.

   How can I apply?

   You may apply by completing VA Form 22-1990, "Application for Education
   Benefits."  Applications may be obtained from your school or from any
   VA regional office.  For further information, call (888) GI-BILL-1 and
   talk with a VA representative.

   If I don't use my educational entitlement, may I transfer it to a
   dependent?

   No.  The Montgomery GI Bill is non-transferable to dependents.

   I elected to participate in the Montgomery GI Bill program (MGIB) but I
   am also serving on a limited tour of duty.  No money has been withheld
   from my pay.  Is something wrong?

   Nothing is wrong.  The withholdings of officers called to active duty
   on a license- or medical-limited tour are suspended until the
   limitation is lifted, usually within 1 year.  This is done to avoid the
   loss of MGIB contributions which are nonrefundable.  While most
   officers called to active duty on limited tours have their limitations
   lifted, occasionally an officer will fail to obtain a license or meet
   the medical requirement and is subsequently separated.  When the
   limitation is lifted, a personnel order is issued indicating that the
   officer is enrolled in MGIB effective the date that he/she was called
   to active duty and the withholdings begin automatically.

   I originally enrolled in the Veterans' Educational Assistance Program
   (VEAP) but I understand that I can now enroll in the Montgomery GI Bill
   (MGIB) program.  How do I do that?

   Officers who are enrolled in VEAP may enroll in MGIB if they:
     * enrolled in VEAP on or before October 9, 1996;
     * served continuously on active duty from October 9, 1996, through
       April 1, 2000;
     * make a non-refundable payment of $2,700; and
     * make an irrevocable election to enroll in MGIB by October 31, 2001.

   The Division of Commissioned Personnel (DCP) will be contacting
   officers enrolled in VEAP to  provide them with the necessary forms and
   instructions.  Officers who enrolled in VEAP while serving on active
   duty in one of the other Uniformed Services will have to contact the
   Officer Support Branch (OSB), DCP, at (301) 594-3384 or (877) 463-6327
   and select OSB to make sure that they receive the enrollment
   information.

   What if I have money remaining in my VEAP account?

   You must apply for a refund of your remaining contributions by
   completing VA Form 5281, "Application for Refund of Educational
   Contributions."  This form may be obtained from the Division of
   Commissioned Personnel by calling (877) 463-6327 or your local Veterans
   Administration Regional Office.

   I originally came on active duty during the Vietnam era.  Do I have any
   educational benefits?

   You may be eligible for the Montgomery GI Bill if you:
     * had remaining entitlement under the Vietnam era GI Bill on December
       31, 1989;
     * served on active duty for any number of days during the period
       between October 19, 1984, and June 30, 1985; and
     * continued to serve on active duty without a break from July 1,
       1985, through June 30, 1988.

   For further information, contact Norman Chichester at (301) 594-3393 or
   (877) 463-6327 and listen to prompts.

   Back to Top


                               Miscellaneous:

   How do promotions work?

   Each year, promotion-eligible officers are sent a letter notifying them
   of their promotion eligibility.  Information on how and when to submit
   information to the officer's official personnel file (OPF) is included
   in the letter.  Eligible officers' records are reviewed by a promotion
   board that consists of 5 officers from the specific professional
   category.  This review includes careful consideration of the officer's
   career as it relates to 5 of the 6 precepts upon which promotion
   recommendations are based.  These 5 precepts are as follows:
     * Performance based largely on the Commissioned Officers'
       Effectiveness Report (COER) ;
     * Mobility (geographic and/or programmatic);
     * Awards;
     * Career progression; and
     * Career potential.

   A sixth precept is the agency/program recommendation.

   Officers eligible for promotion to the O-3 (LT) (and to the O-4 (LCDR)
   in the Medical category) are eligible for an administrative promotion
   rather than a competitive promotion.  Provided the officer has met the
   requirements for promotion (generally successful completion of at least
   6 months of active duty service in the PHS and submission of a COER),
   they will be administratively promoted after review by the Officer
   Support Branch, Division of Commissioned Personnel, rather than being
   reviewed by a board.

   Commissioned Corps promotion policy is contained in INSTRUCTIONs 1 and
   2, Subchapter CC23.4, of the Commissioned Corps Personnel Manual
   (CCPM).  Helpful information is also contained in
   CCPM Pamphlet 62, "Commissioned Officer's Handbook", both of which are
   available on the DCP web site at http://dcp.psc.gov.

   Will I be required to wear a uniform?

   The PHS Commissioned Corps is a Uniformed Service and, as such,
   uniforms are required.  They should be worn correctly and with pride.
   Specific instructions on uniform wear (Part 1, Part 2, Part 3) (i.e.,
   frequency, type, etc.) are stated by the local uniform authority within
   your agency/program.  The Uniform Handbook is available on-line from
   the Division of Commissioned Personnel website at http://dcp.psc.gov
   but consists of 3 separate files due to its size.

   Is there a professional group within the PHS Commissioned Corps that I
   may join?

   Once on active duty, you may become involved with the Professional
   Advisory Committee (PAC) associated with your professional category.
   The PACs advise the Surgeon General on matters of importance to your
   profession and to the Corps.  For a list of PAC chairpersons, click the
   hyperlink to your professional Category listed on the home page.  Once
   you become a commissioned officer, you are also strongly encouraged to
   join the Commissioned Officers Association, the only professional
   association specifically representing the PHS Commissioned Corps.  For
   membership information, call (301) 731-9080.

   Is a mentoring program available for new PHS Commissioned Corps
   officers?

   All newly commissioned officers should contact their category-specific
   Professional Advisory Committee (PAC) (refer to question about
   professional groups in the Commissioned Corps) for information about
   the mentoring program.  For a list of PAC chairpersons, click the
   hyperlink to your professional Category listed on the home page.  If
   unable to establish contact with your PAC on the mentoring program,
   please contact the Recruitment and Assignment Branch at (800) 279-1605
   or (301) 594-3360 during working hours (8:00 am-4:30 pm Eastern Time)
   for further assistance.

   Will I have to sign a contract stating that I will serve a specified
   number of years with the PHS Commissioned Corps, as required by other
   Uniformed Services?

   Certain special pay and/or bonus recipients are required to sign a
   contract to serve on active duty for a designated number of years.  An
   official training contract must also be signed by officers who enter
   into long-term training, including the Senior Commissioned Officer
   Student Training and Extern Program.  For further information on
   special pay/bonuses, click the hyperlink to your professional Category
   listed on the home page.

   Are there student training and/or funding opportunities available?
   What about Loan Repayment Programs?

   The Commissioned Corps offers two excellent opportunities for students
   throughout the academic year through the Junior Commissioned Officer
   Student Training and Extern Program (JRCOSTEP) and the Senior
   Commissioned Officer Student Training and Extern Program (SRCOSTEP).
   Both programs are highly competitive and are available for
   commissionable professional categories.  In the SRCOSTEP program,
   students are assisted financially during the final year of their
   qualifying degree program in return for an agreement to work as a
   commissioned officer after graduation.  The student is appointed as an
   active-duty commissioned officer during his/her senior year and
   receives monthly pay and allowances as an Ensign (O-1).  Additional
   support, in the form of tuition and fees, may be paid by the supporting
   agency/program.  Following graduation, the student agrees to work for
   twice the time supported, for the agency/program that provided the
   financial support.  For further information, click the Students button
   on the home page.

   Other available programs, not specific to PHS commissioned officers,
   are offered by the
   Indian Health Service (IHS), the National Health Service Corps (NHSC),
   and the National Institutes of Health (NIH).

   The IHS offers a Scholarship Program that is available for American
   Indians and Alaskan Natives at various educational levels.  For further
   information, call (301) 443-6197.   In addition, the IHS offers a Loan
   Repayment Program (LRP) that will pay participants up to $20,000/year
   in exchange for signing a 2-year service contract with an eligible
   Indian health program.  The LRP will also pay an additional 20 percent
   annually to the Internal Revenue Service to offset the increased tax
   liability incurred by the participant.  Participants who wish to extend
   their participation in the LRP for an additional year may request an
   extension.  For further information or to request an application, call
   (301)443-3396 or access their web site at
   www.ihs.gov.

   The NHSC also offers a Scholarship Program and a LRP.  For further
   information about these programs, call the following numbers or access
   their web site at
   www.bphc.hrsa.gov/nhsc.
       NHSC Loan Repayment:

   To obtain an application:  (800) 221-9393
       To speak with someone:  (800) 435-6464 or (301) 594-4400

   NHSC Scholarship:
   To obtain an application:  (800) 638-0824
       To speak with someone:  (800) 793-1547 or (301) 594-4410

   Scholarship Recipients and Loan Repayors from IHS and NHSC have the
   option to serve their payback as Commissioned Corps officers as long as
   work sites are approved.

   The NIH sponsors 4 LRPs that pay a maximum of $35,000 a year for
   contracts executed on or after November 13, 1998, toward participants'
   outstanding eligible educational debts.  In return, participants must
   sign a contract agreeing to conduct qualified research activities as
   NIH employees.  Participants may apply for additional 1-year renewal
   contracts and continue to receive loan repayment benefits.  LRP
   participation is contingent upon NIH employment.  For further
   information, access the web site at http://lrp.info.nih.gov or call
   (800) 528-7689 or (301) 402-5666.

   How does the PHS Commissioned Corps differ from the military?

   The health mission of the PHS Commissioned Corps differs from that of
   the armed forces (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard).  Unlike
   the military, the Commissioned Corps is an all-officer organization
   that offers controlled mobility.  Officers in the Corps are also
   eligible for promotion based on different criteria than those used in
   the military system.

   Once I become an officer in the PHS Commissioned Corps, how can I learn
   more about the organization?

   You are strongly encouraged to enroll in the 3-day Basic Orientation
   Training Course  that is designed primarily to assist newly
   commissioned officers in their transition to the Commissioned Corps.
   Emphasis is placed on the Commissioned Corps as a Uniformed Service,
   military bearing and courtesy, career development, promotions, leave,
   compensation, awards, standards of conduct, etc. Officers will also
   receive a historical and organizational perspective of the PHS and its
   past and future roles in protecting the Nation's health.  Other sources
   of information, e.g., CCPM Pamphlet No. 62, "Commissioned Officer's
   Handbook," are available under publications on the Division of
   Commissioned Personnel's web site at http://dcp.psc.gov.

   What does Home of Record mean?  Will I pay state taxes to my Home of
   Record?

   The Home of Record (HOR) has nothing to do with state taxes
   .  The main purpose of the HOR is for an officer's travel and
   transportation, and shipment of Household goods (HHG) entitlements.
   When officers are called to duty, they are asked to provide the city
   and state they consider their "permanent home" or HOR.  This must be a
   location in which they have lived or owned property PRIOR to call to
   duty, but it does not have to be the same location from which they are
   called to duty.

   Upon call to active duty, an officer's HHG may be shipped from either
   the city and state from which they travel or their HOR.  After serving
   a minimum of two years of active duty (and meeting any other
   obligations such as those resulting from training or special pay
   contracts), officers are entitled to travel and shipment of HHG from
   the duty station back to either the location from which called to duty
   or their HOR (or to a point of equal or lesser distance) upon
   inactivation or termination (in the case of retirement, an officer may
   also travel and ship HHG to a "home of selection").

   The state to which an officer pays taxes is called the "State of Legal
   Residence" and is declared after the call to active duty.

   Back to Top

   If you are an active duty officer and have questions not related to
   recruitment, please call 1-877-INFO-DCP (1-877-463-6327), 301-594-0401
   or visit the DCP telephone directory.

   If you are an applicant or anyone else with Recruitment, Job or
   Application questions, please email
   phs@psc.gov or call 1-800-279-1605 or 301-594-3360.
