http://www.courts.wa.gov/library/


   Link to Washington State Courts Home Page

     Washington State Law Library Courts Home

   Assistance


                         Research Starting Places
                       Legal Research on The Internet

                                Need Help?
                            Reference Assistance
                          Contact the Law Library
                             Photocopy Requests
                         Complete citation required

   Informational Brochures


                       10 Easy Steps to Legal Research
                        Washington State Constitution
                          Revised Code of Washington
                        Washington Administrative Law
                        Washington Legislative History
                           and Legislative Intent
                                Court Reports
                               Legal Citations
                            Citators for Case Law
                            Digests for Case Law
                          United States Public Laws
                         Federal Administrative Rules
                               and Regulations


   Welcome to the State Law Library

   The State Law Library was originally a part of the State Library. In
   1907, the State Law Library Committee was charged with appointing the
   State Law Librarian, who would also be the Deputy State Librarian. The
   State Law Library has occupied the Main Reading Room in the Temple of
   Justice since the building was opened in 1913.

   In 1958, under the Revised Code of Washington 27.20, the State Law
   Library was made a part of the Supreme Court. It serves employees of
   all three branches of state government and provides some services to
   local governments. It is also open to the public.

   With over 53,000 titles and over 340,000 volumes, the collection is one
   of the largest legal collections in the Far West. It is the only law
   library in the Pacific Northwest to have primary materials from all
   fifty states, including published official reports and statutes. The
   collection includes a comprehensive set of primary federal materials.
   The Library has one of the largest collections of legal periodicals
   published in English. The treatises and text books collection is
   comprehensive.

   It has a full set of printed briefs for the Washington Reports, first
   and second series, and for the Washington Appellate Reports. In
   addition, it carries early Washington territorial laws and reports. The
   collection has copies of early Washington state codes and statutes.

   The Library has many early sets of reports and statutes from other
   states and from the federal government.

   The Law Library is a selective federal depository library and a
   depository for materials published by the State Justice Institute.

   The renovation of the historical Temple of Justice was completed in
   1989. The State Law Library continues to occupy the Main Reading Room
   as well as a portion of the lower floor of the building.

   Primary materials are located in the Main Reading Room, on Floor 1 and
   on the Mezzanine. Located on the lower floor are: periodicals, such as
   law reviews, journals and newspapers; textbooks and treatises; Canadian
   and English materials; and the microfiche collection. Some older
   materials are stored off-site.

   [spacer.gif]
   Home |  Courts |  Organizations |  News |  Opinions |  Rules |  Forms
   Directory |  Self-Help |  FAQ |  Library |  Site Map |  Search |
   Contact
   Back to Top
   [spacer.gif]
    Privacy and Disclaimer Notices
