http://www.irs.ustreas.gov/irs/news/0,,i1%3d42%26articleId%3d78976,00.html

                Internal Revenue Service The Digital Daily
         Skip past Top Nav Bar Home |   Tax Stats  |   About IRS  |
    Careers  |   FOIA  |   The Newsroom  |   Accessibility  |   Site Map
                           |   Español  |   Help


                      Search
                          ______________ Go
                      Forms Finder
                          ______________ Go
                            Search Help


                      Contents
                      Skip past Left Nav Bar What's Hot
                      News Releases
                      IRS - The Basics
                      IRS Guidance
                      Media Contacts
                      Facts & Figures
                      Problem Alerts
                      Graphic Center
                      Around the Nation
                      e-News Service

                      Resources
                                       e-file
                      Forms and Publications
                      Where to File
                      Contact My Local Office
                      FAQs
                      Taxpayer Advocate

                      Topics
                      Current Filing Season Tips
                      Scams / Consumer Alerts
                      Criminal Investigations
                      IRS Modernization
                      Tax Shelters
                      Disaster Relief
                      Advance Payment Info
                      Freedom of Information


                             Home  > The Newsroom


                         The Newsroom [1x1-grey.gif]



   What's This Line?



                     USE CARE WITH NEW LINE ON TAX FORMS

   Many early filers have made an error related to a new line on the
   federal tax form. This line is for the Rate Reduction Credit, which
   taxpayers use if they did not receive last summer's Advance Payment in
   the maximum amount for their filing status.

   This credit is the only new line on the basic tax forms - line 47 on
   Form 1040; line 30 on Form 1040A; line 7 on Form 1040EZ. Read its
   instructions carefully so you get the proper benefits. Errors can delay
   processing and the IRS wants everyone due a refund to get it as quickly
   as possible.

   Some taxpayers are putting their Advance Payment amount on the credit
   line, when they should be leaving the line blank. If you have already
   received the maximum amount for your filing status, just skip the Rate
   Reduction Credit line on your tax form. The maximum amounts are:
     * $300 for a single person or a married person filing separately;

     * $500 for a head of household;

     * $600 for a married couple filing jointly or a qualifying widow(er).

   Other taxpayers, who should claim a credit amount, are leaving the line
   blank. These people received less than their filing status maximum
   amount as an Advance Payment and their 2001 income - generally higher
   than it was in 2000 -- entitles them to claim the credit on their
   return.

   The credit and the Advance Payments are how the new law gives one of
   its main benefits for 2001 - a 10 percent tax rate. Instead of having
   people wait until they file their 2001 tax returns to get a larger
   refund, the law provided for Advance Payments to be made last year,
   based on the returns for 2000. If the 2001 income and filing status
   would give a larger benefit than the Advance Payment, the taxpayer may
   claim the difference as a Rate Reduction Credit on the 2001 return.

   Dependents were not eligible for Advance Payments or the Rate Reduction
   Credit, but they may get the benefit of the lower tax rate by
   completing the "Tax Computation Worksheet for Certain Dependents" in
   the tax instructions.

   Taxpayers who made an error related to this credit on their returns
   should wait to see if the IRS catches it during processing. If the IRS
   does not contact them by the time they receive their refund, they may
   file an amended return to correct the error.

   The IRS offered these answers to some frequently asked questions about
   the Rate Reduction Credit and the Advance Payments:

   Q1. How can I find out if I can claim the rate reduction credit?

   A1. Use the Rate Reduction Credit Worksheet in the 2001 tax return
   instructions to find out if you are eligible to claim the credit and,
   if you are, the amount of the credit.

   Q2. What do I do if I need help in completing the worksheet or want
   additional information about the Rate Reduction Credit?

   A2. For help in completing the worksheet, call 1-800-829-1040. For more
   information about the credit, call TeleTax at 1-800-829-4477, press "3"
   to listen to recorded tax topics and choose topic 609.

   Q3. How do I know the amount I received as an Advance Payment of my
   2001 taxes?

   A3. The IRS sent taxpayers a notice informing them of the amount they
   would receive and the date to expect the check.

   Q4. What do I do if I don't remember the amount or misplaced the
   notice?

   A4. Call TeleTax at 1-800-829-4477 and follow the instructions. It is
   fast and easy. Follow the prompts for a touch-tone phone, then choose
   English or Spanish. You will be asked to press "1" if you want to know
   the amount of your Advance Payment, more commonly known as "rebate."
   Continue to follow the instructions -- entering your social security
   number, filing status and number of exemptions on your 2000 return -
   and you will be told the amount of your Advance Payment.

   Q5. What do I do if my Advance Payment was the same as the maximum
   amount for my 2001 filing status?

   A5. You won't have to do anything - just leave the Rate Reduction
   Credit line blank on your tax return. The maximum amounts are $300 for
   a single filer or married person filing separately, $500 for a head of
   household and $600 for a married couple filing jointly or a qualifying
   widow(er).

   Q6. What if I did not receive the full Advance Payment that I believe I
   was entitled to?

   A6. Use the Rate Reduction Credit Worksheet to figure what, if any,
   credit you may now claim. Enter the result, if more than zero, on Line
   47 of Form 1040, or Line 30 of Form 1040A, or Line 7 of Form 1040EZ. If
   you, or your spouse if filing jointly, can be claimed as a dependent on
   another person's 2001 return, you cannot claim the credit.

   Q7. I did not get any Advance Payment because my 2000 income was too
   low and I had no tax. Will I be able to claim the Rate Reduction
   Credit?

   A7. Perhaps -- check the Rate Reduction Credit Worksheet to see if your
   2001 income and filing status qualify you for the credit. If you still
   have no taxable income, you can't claim the credit. You also don't
   qualify if you, or your spouse if filing jointly, can be claimed as a
   dependent on another taxpayer's 2001 return. (See Q8.)

   Q8. I file my own tax return and my parents claim me as a dependent on
   their return. May I claim the Rate Reduction Credit?

   A8. No, dependents cannot claim the credit and were not eligible for
   Advance Payments. But they may get the benefit of the tax rate cut by
   completing the Tax Computation Worksheet for Certain Dependents in the
   instruction book for the form they use. If you were a dependent on
   another taxpayer's 2000 return but were not a dependent for 2001,
   complete the Rate Reduction Credit Worksheet to see how much, if any,
   credit you may claim.

   Q9. What if I did not receive my Advance Payment because I still owed
   money on a previous tax year?

   A9. You still received the benefit of the Advance Payment even if all
   or part of it was withheld to pay back taxes, other federal debts, or
   past-due child support you owed. You should have received a notice
   explaining any such offset. If your Advance Payment amount was greater
   than the offset, you should have received the remainder in a check. You
   cannot claim the Rate Reduction Credit to recover the offset amount.

   Q10. I moved last year and never received my Advance Payment check. Now
   I'm told the government can't send it to my new address. What can I do?

   A10. The law provided for Advance Payment checks to be sent only until
   the end of 2001, so it's too late for the Treasury to send one now. You
   can get the same tax cut benefit by claiming the Rate Reduction Credit
   on your 2001 tax return.

   Q11. My tax situation has changed since 2000 and my Advance Payment
   would have been less if it had been based on my 2001 return. Do I have
   to repay the extra amount I received?

   A11. No. Even though your income may be lower or your filing status
   changed in 2001, the law provided that you would not have to pay back
   any resulting "excess" payment.

        IRS Privacy and Security Policy | Contact Us | ©2001 IRS.gov
