http://gopher.ngdc.noaa.gov/products/ngdc_products.html

   NOAA logo and earth/sun icon, go to National Geophysical Data Center
   home. NGDC Products

                         Data Products Available from NGDC


   CD-ROMs |  Posters |  Reports & Publications |  Slide sets |  Data Access
                                    Systems

       Search for products NOAA-wide through the NOAA National Data Center's
                                   Online Store.

       NOAA's National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC) offers a wide range of
       both standard and custom data products. Much of our data is available
       online for free download, and many databases have web interfaces that
            help you search for and download data in a convenient form.

        Some of our most popular products are CD-ROM data sets, posters (&
         icosahedra), published reports, and slide sets. Standard CD-ROM,
       poster, and slide set products are each described in Center-wide data
      announcements (see links above). These announcements link to the Online
        store and to web pages with more information about each individual
                                     product.

       Our standard products can be ordered directly from the NOAA National
       Data Centers' Online Store. The store is operated on a secure server
         where you may safely enter credit card information to charge your
       order. We do not maintain your credit information in a database; for
                    your protection it is destroyed after use.

      An even wider range of data and information, both standard and custom,
         can be found by following the links on NGDC's home page to a data
         discipline of interest, then finding data of interest within that
       discipline. You can also use the pull-down menus at the top or bottom
      of this page to find data by discipline. Typically, you will find data,
      images, software utilities, and other information under each discipline
                                       link.

        If you do not find what you are looking for, just ask us. The most
       direct route is to look at the bottom of the web page that is closest
        to what you are looking for and email, phone, fax, or write to the
       contact shown there. You can always contact info@ngdc.noaa.gov or use
                the contact information at the bottom of this page.

         More information about NGDC's mission, who we serve, and what we
                 provide can be found in our About NGDC web page.


       For additional information, please contact info@ngdc.noaa.gov,
       NOAA/NGDC Mail Code E/GC, 325 Broadway, Boulder, CO USA 80303. phone
       303-497-6826, fax 303-497-6513.

          Register here to receive timely information on new products and
                        services in your areas of interest.

                          go to NGDC home page. NGDC Home

                    URL: http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/products/ngdc_products.html
                  [Navigate the National Geophysical Data Center]

                               revised July 24, 2001
