http://www.cdva.ca.gov/calvet/default.asp


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CDVA Home
                          About us
                          Cal-Vet Home Loans
                          Veterans Homes
                          Veterans Services
                          Women Veterans
                          Veterans Memorial
                          Vets License Plates
                          California Veterans Board
                          Homes for Sale
                          News from CDVA
                          Employment Opportunities
                          Links to Other Sites
                          Site Map




                    CDVA Seal and Link to CDVA Home Page


                                Cal-Vet Loans



                 Now is a Great Time to use a Cal-Vet Loan!


   If you're ready to buy a home, Cal-Vet is here to meet your home
   financing needs! You will find many features and benefits with a
   Cal-Vet loan that will save you money and help protect your investment
   for your family.

   We offer a low interest rate and an even lower rate for veterans who
   are first-time homebuyers who meet income and purchase price
   limitations. With these low rates, and a low 2% or 3% down payment
   requirement (depending on loan program), Cal-Vet is the loan of choice
   for veterans. Cal-Vet interest rates have always been flexible rates,
   changing infrequently based upon the cost of the bonds used. However,
   our bond portfolio is very stable and our costs are contained -- making
   it unlikely that we will need to increase the interest rate once you
   obtain your loan. The last increase for rates on existing loans was
   1/4% in 1994.

   We have expanded eligibility so that nearly any veteran wanting to buy
   a home in California is eligible. We currently have funds for all
   qualified wartime era veterans, regardless of when they served in the
   military. We also have funds available for peacetime veterans who meet
   the criteria for Revenue Bond funds (first-time homebuyers or
   purchasers in targeted areas who meet income and purchase price
   limitations). Remember, there are no residency restrictions. Veterans
   are eligible regardless of where they entered service.

   Your may receive free prequalification for a Cal-Vet loan by
   downloading and completing our form and sending it to your local
   Cal-Vet district office.



                              __________ search
                                 (*)  My CA


     More information on Cal-Vet Loans:

     Current Cal-Vet Interest Rates

     For Prospective Buyers

     For Current Contract Holders

     For Real Estate Professionals

     For Everyone: Cal-Vet Homes for Sale

     Contact one of the Cal-Vet Offices

     Next meeting of the Veterans Finance Committee, February 4, 2002 -
     Information and Agenda

     Call or write us:
     California Department of Veterans Affairs
     Division of Farm and Home Purchases
     P.O.Box 942895
     94295-0001
     (800) 952-LOAN

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
