http://odp.od.nih.gov/public.html


   go to Welcome, page Go to About ODP, page Contact Us Go to Search page
   ODP-link to the Home Page Public Health Policy and Special Projects
   Skip the Navigation Bar
   Baltimore-Washington Public Health Consortium Health Consortium
   Population-based Prevention Research Database
   Glossary of Public Health Terms
   Resources for Patients and Public
   Information for Researchers
   Information for Health Researchers
   NEW! - ODP 2000-2001 Seminar Series - PDF file
   Prevention Research Coordinating Committee
   Public Health Policy
   Workshop & Conferences
   ODP Strategic Plan
   In the news

   Link to the previous page Link to Home Page

   The NIH Associate Director for Disease Prevention and Office of Disease
        Prevention staff collaborate with other federal agencies, academic
     institutions and non-governmental organizations in the formulation of
                       policies that promote public health and prevention.

     • ODP serves as liaison to the Task Force on Community Preventive
     Services and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, from which
     Guide to Community Preventive Services, and the Third Edition of
     Guide to Clinical Preventive Services, respectively, are being
     developed. These reviews of studies and experiences are designed to
     advise the public and health providers regarding preventive services
     and to illuminate gaps in research on disease prevention and health
     promotion. ODP's review and translation of research resulting in
     guidelines, action, and programs is currently done in concert with
     the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Agency for
     Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), Food and Drug Administration
     (FDA) and other DHHS agencies.

     • ODP was a sponsor for the highly successful National Nutrition
     Summit, May 30-31, 2000, an event co-chaired by Dr. Paul Coates,
     Director of the Office of Dietary Supplements. This Summit, jointly
     sponsored by USDA and DHHS, addressed progress and continuing
     challenges since the highly successful White House Conference on
     Food, Nutrition, and Health held in 1969. Among issues that received
     attention from a broad selection of the public and private sectors
     involved in nutrition and health were: 1) the continuing problem of
     hunger in the US, 2) the dramatic increase in the prevalence of
     overweight and obesity, and 3) the role of nutrition and physical
     activity in health promotion and chronic disease prevention.

     • ODP coordinated the NIH work on Healthy People 2010, a national
     health promotion and disease prevention agenda. The overall goals
     are to improve years and quality of healthy life, and to eliminate
     health disparities. Healthy People 2010 was launched on January 25,
     2000 and will provide a framework for State and community public
     health policies. ODP staff serve on the Healthy People 2010 Steering
     Committee and are active in its implementation.

     • ODP is supporting in part an upcoming Institute of Medicine study
     entitled: "Assuring the Health of the Public in the 21st Century."
     The study will be conducted by an expert panel over an 18 month time
     period. Their report will aim to describe a new and inclusive
     framework for assuring population-level health that can be
     effectively communicated to and acted upon by diverse communities.

     • The Office on Medical Applications of Research (OMAR) in ODP
     serves as the focal point for evidence-based assessments of medical
     practice and state-of-the-science on behalf of the medical community
     and the public. OMAR works closely with the NIH Institutes and
     Centers to assess, translate and disseminate the results of
     biomedical research that can be used in the delivery of important
     health services to the public. A major responsibility of OMAR is the
     coordination and management of the NIH Consensus Development
     Program. Under this program, OMAR organizes major conferences on
     complex issues of medical importance to health care providers,
     patients and the general public. These conferences are open to the
     public, broadcast on the Internet and free of charge to
     participants. The NIH Consensus Statements and State of the Science
     Statements produced by these conferences are disseminated widely to
     health care practitioners, policymakers, patients, the media and the
     general public.



     Top
