http://www.fvap.ncr.gov/leo/leo.html

              Information of Interest to Local Election Officials

   The Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) has developed this web
   page to assist Local Election Officials (LEOs).
   All United States Postal Service (USPS) Postal Publications and the
   FVAP files referenced on this page are formatted using Adobe Acrobat
   and can be viewed using Acrobat Reader. We recommend that you have
   version 5 or higher to ensure complete readability. If you do not have
   Acrobat Reader or need to update your version, please go to the
   following Adobe site to download the program:
   Icon from Adobe stating 'Get Acrobat Reader'
   www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.

Postal Regulations

   One of the most difficult problems facing a LEO is designing the ballot
   transmission and return envelopes in accordance with U.S. Postal
   regulations. There are several pertinent regulations or publications.
   We recommend you download the files for future reference.
   The following link will take you directly to the USPS' Publication 25:
   U.S. Postal Service Publication 25. This document contains instructions
   on envelope design, automatic addressing and much more.

Envelope Design

   FVAP has developed a summary of the USPS requirements for envelope
   design and has also developed sample ballot transmission and return
   envelopes.
   Ballot Transmission Envelope Sample
   Ballot Return Envelope Sample
   For the actual USPS reference, Page 14 of Publication 25 has the
   specifics on envelope design (click on Chapter 2 in the table of
   contents to get to the envelope design chapter).

Automatic Addressing

   Chapter 3 of Publication 25 contains information on automatic
   addressing (click on Chapter 3 in the table of contents to move to
   chapter 3).

Color

   For greatest contrast, the USPS recommends black ink on white
   background. See page 35 of Publication 25 for more information (type in
   page 42 in the Acrobat page number in order to get to the page on color
   requirements).

   FVAP Home Page
   Home          Index
                 Index     contact FVAP
                           Contact Us
