http://marsnet.jpl.nasa.gov/evolution/evolution.html



   [title-banner1.JPG]
                      Logos
   ------------------------------------- [evolution-title.JPG]

   [gateway-sm.JPG] [USEMAP:buttons1.JPG]




    The Microsats

   A number of scenarios can be postulated for how the Mars Network might
   evolve. In one scenario, the first Microsat would launch in 2003, with
   one equatorial and one polar Microsat planned for possible launch
   during each subsequent opportunity (which occurs about every two years
   given the relative motions of the Earth and Mars). In such a scenario,
   Mars Network would have an operational, in situ navigation-capable,
   three-satellite constellation by late 2005. A fully operational
   six-satellite constellation in this scenario would occur in late 2009.
   The six-satellite constellation would provide for a robust
   communication and navigation infrastructure at Mars, with frequent
   contact opportunities.

                             [microsat-icon.JPG]


                                 The MARSats

   By adding a MARSat to this constellation in 2007 and a second,
   higher-capacity one in late 2009, Mars Network would be on a path to
   providing a quantum leap in communications capability for exploration
   elements planning to capture near-continuous video. Some of these
   exploration elements might include robotic sample return missions,
   robotic outposts, and piloted Mars missions for which over-the-horizon
   communications, high-fidelity sustained virtual presence, and high-rate
   two-way HDTV might be particularly important.


                             [marsnet-icon3.JPG]


   [evolution-chart-sm.JPG]

                Click on the above diagram to see full size.

                               A Mars Internet

   To the extent that the number of Mars exploration elements and Mars
   Network constellation elements increase, so might the complexities of
   trying to coordinate the communications occurring between them. The
   problem is not too dissimilar from that encountered on the Earth in the
   1980s when computer users at disparate locations across the globe all
   began trying to get their various brands of computers to communicate
   with one another in some standard way. The solution to that problem was
   the Internet and, more specifically, the Internet Protocol (IP)
   computers began using when linking to each other through phone lines.
   With this analogy in mind, Mars Network is working with the Internet
   community to design a Mars Internet, with an IP-like protocol that
   would facilitate file-level communications between exploration and
   constellation elements and be robust enough to contend with long
   round-trip light times and noisy, intermittent, power-constrained deep
   space links. To the extent that these efforts succeed at Mars, one can
   imagine Mars becoming the first of many gateways on an Interplanetary
   Internet - an Internet that would enable virtual presence throughout
   the solar system.

   [ev-chart2-sm.JPG]






                         Last updated: Nov. 24, 1999

                            &COPY; Copyright 1999
