http://www.flx.gov/marketplace/reg_user_info.asp

   Want to Be A Registered FLX User?

   What are the "Collaboration" Pages?

   The Collaboration pages have been designed for federal agencies and
   their learning providers (under contract) to use in sharing and
   searching for information, resources, opportunities and partnerships to
   meet agency learning needs. The Collaboration pages are the only FLX
   pages with a controlled access section.  All users will be able to
   search postings.  The controlled "Post" and "Search" options allow the
   registered FLX user to post and limit the audience viewing its
   postings.  For example, a federal agency may want to post a training
   need for other federal agencies only.

   Who has access to the "Collaboration" Pages?

   All ALX and FLX registered providers will have access to these pages
   using their ALX or FLX password and userid. There are three categories
   of ALX and FLX registered providers:

   Federal
     * FLX providers who develop and/or provide learning resources.
     * Federal government providers may give access to other federal users
       by listing their names and contact information on their agency
       registration page. The list can be updated at any time by the
       registered federal provider.

   Federal Vendor
     * FLX private sector vendors and educational institutions that have
       contracts to provide learning services to the federal government.

   How to Become a Registered FLX User

   Federal
     * If you are a federal worker who manages or delivers learning
       services to agency workers and have not registered as a provider
       with FLX, please return to our homepage and "sign up." Once
       validated you will have a password, userid and access to our
       Collaboration page on the FLX Marketplace.
     * If you are not a training provider but a federal government
       employee interested in access to our Collaboration page, please
       contact the FLX Implementation Team at infoflx@flx.gov, for
       assistance in obtaining possible access to the Collaboration pages
       on the FLX Marketplace.

     * If your agency is registered, we will contact your registered
       agency provider about adding your name to the list.
     * If your agency is not listed, we will locate your agency's training
       office to assist you and your agency in getting registered.

   Federal Vendor
     * If you are a private sector vendor or an educational institution
       that has contracts to provide learning services to the federal
       government and have not registered as a provider with ALX or FLX,
       please return to our homepage and "sign up." Once validated as a
       training provider we will give you a password, userid and access to
       our Collaboration page on the FLX Marketplace.

                                 Back to top
