http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/whatsnew.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image
                                 space

                           What's New @ FCIC
   Hey, things are really happening here at FCIC, and occasionally we
   remember to update this page to tell you about it. So take a look
   below.
                                 space

   January 24, 2002

      It's a scary thought, but your personal information is lurking out
      there. We have a great Privacy Resources Page that has links to many
      federal and non-federal organizations to help sort out your privacy
      rights. Learn how to protect your kids' privacy, prevent identity
      theft, protect your medical and financial information and more. You
      know that you can always feel safe with us!

   January 10, 2002

      Well - you asked for it! We have revamped the Links page of our site!
      We found numerous new and exciting links to help you on any subjects
      about cars, children, computers, education, employment, federal
      programs, food, health, housing, money, small business, travel and
      more. Each of these main topics have sub-topics at the top of the page
      to help narrow down your search. Just think how you're friends will be
      so impressed with your new found knowledge!

   January 2, 2002

      Aren't you glad that the holidays are over? It seems that with each
      Christmas holiday that passes - I am more and more exhausted! So, I
      decide to treat myself to a movie on my brand new DVD player (thank you
      honey!) - what do I find out - my DVD player is busted! I guess that I
      can attibute it to the rattling noise inside. Sound familiar? What's my
      next step? I've gotta check out January's Consumer Focus: Handling
      Consumer Complaints. Sometimes you may feel like filing a complaint can
      seem complicated and intimidating, but it doesn't have to be. FCIC has
      put together all the information every consumer needs to get a
      complaint resolved quickly.

   December 5, 2001

      If you're like me, you have friends that are so organized that they
      make you sick. I went to a friend's house for Thanksgiving ... three of
      my friends were already done with their holiday shopping! I'm thinking
      - it's November ... I haven't even started! But I'm not sweatin' it
      this year! This month's Consumer Focus: Online Holiday Shopping has
      everything I need to know about where to buy, what I'm buying, and how
      to keep good records. So the next time your organized friends smirk
      because they're done with their holiday shopping and you're not -
      you'll have the satisfaction of knowing that you're smart enough to
      shop in your PJs and have the presents come to your door.

   November 20, 2001

      Who can believe it's almost the end of 2001? Where did the year go?
      Well, to help you prepare for another season, we have our brand
      spankin' new Winter Edition of the Consumer Information Catalog! It's
      filled with a listing of more than 200 consumer publications including
      topics like food allergies, vaccine safety, and protecting your
      appliances from power surges. Quite a variety - wouldn't you agree? So
      don't worry about the year coming to a close - just order your free
      copy and cozy up to a warm fire with the Consumer Information Catalog!

   November 7, 2001

      As the holiday season approaches, I know I'm not the only one worried
      about expanding waist lines. But who could resist all that rich food?
      Let's see....creamy mashed potatoes, honey baked ham, juicy turkey,
      scrumptious apple pie, extra stuffing, hot piping rolls, candied yams
      ... oh, I'm sorry - I've drifted into The Fattening Zone. Well, to keep
      yourself from daydreaming too, you've gotta read November's Consumer
      Focus: Food for the Holidays. Read on for great tips and ideas to help
      you plan and prepare healthy, crowd-pleasing food for this holiday
      season.

   November 1, 2001

      I know everyone out there is wondering if we're really as fun as we say
      we are. Well, WE ARE! We had another renowned Halloween party - and
      these pictures are hysterical! Of course, our competitve side came out
      during the Mummy Game. It involves 3 team members and toilet paper. You
      do the math. So, check out our new nutty staff!

   October 3, 2001

      You know that everyone secretly has a fascination with Star Trek. One
      of the show's well-known characters was Dr. Leonard "Bones" McCoy, the
      ship's doctor - known for famous quotes like "I'm a doctor dammit not a
      bricklayer!" Well, the reason I like Bones is because it's such a
      fitting name for this month's Consumer Focus: Osteoperosis - The Silent
      Theif. Learn more about this disease that affects 28 million Americans
      and how to take steps to prevent it. Got milk?

   September 27, 2001

      With the recent events surrounding September 11th, you can't seem to
      escape the images of that day. How can you and your family deal with
      these issues? FCIC has put together a "Coping with Crisis" page. This
      page lists publications we offer to help handle these difficult times.

   September 24, 2001

      Our government offers a number of services to Americans, but do you
      know where to begin looking? Well, right here of course! We have the
      Federal Benefits and Services page just for you. This page lists
      different links to various programs available to the public. Don't you
      like how we make things easier for ya?

   September 21, 2001

      Sometimes I feel like my 11 year old nephew knows more about the
      computer than I ever will. I watch him as he chats away on Instant
      Messenger and am boggled by the way he's having 4 different
      conversations all within the same minute! And here I am still trying to
      figure out how to work the 3-way on my cell phone. Well - for the
      computer novice in all of us, we have a new Computers Category. There
      are a variety of publications including Buying a Computer, How to Go
      Online, and Shopping Safely Online. Don't worry, I won't tell the kids.

   September 4, 2001

      You remember when you saw the old car commercials on TV, automobiles
      were called "used" cars. Now the new politically correct terms are
      "certified" and "pre-owned". Are those the buzz words for the new
      millennium? Before you go out shopping for a pre-owned vehicle, you
      have to get great tips from our September Consumer Focus: Buying a
      Great Used Car. Find out how to negotiate a good deal and how to check
      for car safety features. Personally, I would love to own a 2000 Jaguar
      XK8 Convertible! Maybe I can find someone who has a "certified,
      pre-owned" $55,000 that they're not going to use. Anyone know the
      people who won the Power Ball?

   August 30, 2001

      We have a new nutty staff page for our FCIC fans! Some of us brought in
      our baby pictures - so your mission, if you choose to accept it, will
      be to guess who's who of our staff.

      This message will self-destruct in 10 seconds....

      10 - 9 - 8 - 7 - 6 - 5 - 4 - 3 - 2 .....

      Speaking of destructing, if you've been experiencing some problems with
      our website - you need to get a faster computer. Just joking! We have
      new shopping software that we're trying to get all the kinks out of. If
      you experience any problems, try clicking your "refresh / reload"
      button on your browser. If that doesn't work and you're totally
      frustrated and leave - please come back. We'll be here!

   August 27, 2001

      We're back! I feel like I just blinked and suddenly it was Labor Day
      weekend! Am I the only person who wonders "where did summer go?" Let's
      say goodbye to hot and humid days and say hello to colorful leaves and
      lots of raking. The Fall Edition of our Consumer Information Catalog is
      now available - with our beeeaauutiful cover to get you in that autumn
      mood. We have an .html version, a text version, and a .pdf version
      available online, but if you prefer, you can get a free copy mailed to
      your home. Can you taste the pumpkin pie yet?

   July 9, 2001

      Well, here we are back to the grind after 4th of July week. I hope
      everyone enjoyed celebrating Independance Day. If you need a quick
      break from going through the millions of e-mails in your inbox, here is
      an entertaining suggestion. We have a new Public Service Anouncement:
      Up In The Air? We feature both the 30 and 60 second spot, depending on
      how much time you have to break away from replying to the multiplying
      e-mails.
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
