http://www.phila.gov/summary/rda/index.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    City of Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia at Your Service Home Page Philadelphia
   Residents Page Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Visitors Page

[clearpixel.gif]

                                     Copyright© City of Philadelphia 2001  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
[clearpixel.gif]                                      [clearpixel.gif]
                 Philadelphia Redevelopment Authority

                 Mission

                 The core mission of the Redevelopment Authority (RDA) is to facilitate
   the development of under-utilized property in the special emphasis on
   affordable housing. To carry out this mission the Authority serves as
   the City's lead agency for real financing the development of affordable
   housing.

   The Redevelopment Authority utilizes its powers of eminent domain
   (condemnation) to facilitate the reuse of vacant, tax-delinquent and
   blighted property throughout the City. The Authority also administers a
   range of federal and state funds available to the City of Philadelphia
   for the purpose of preserving and expanding the City's affordable
   housing supply. These activities are undertaken by contract with the
   City's Office of Housing and Community Development  (OHCD), which
   determines overall housing and community development policies,
   strategies and priorities for the City.

   Frequently Asked Questions

   Acquiring Property from the RDA

   The Redevelopment Authority manages and makes available to the public
   two inventories of real estate:
   1. Property owned by the Redevelopment Authority itself  (including
       property previously acquired by eminent domain), and
       2. Property owned by the City of Philadelphia that is both vacant
       and "surplus" (i.e., the City has no plan to use the property).
       These inventories include both vacant lots and vacant structures.
       Most of the structures are attached, row-style houses in need of
       substantial rehabilitation in order to be habitable. The properties
       may be made available to individuals, businesses or organizations
       at fair market value.

   The Redevelopment Authority does not provide funds for property
   rehabilitation in conjunction with the disposition of these
   properties.  In addition, the Authority can use its powers of eminent
   domain to condemn privately owned property that is blighted when there
   are specific redevelopment plans with demonstrated financing.
   Applicants are required to pay all direct and administrative costs.
   This process clears title to the property, and is useful in cases where
   the owner of record cannot be located or reached.

   Note: Other public agencies own property in the City of Philadelphia.
   These include the Philadelphia Housing Authority (PHA), the
   Philadelphia Housing Development Corporation (PHDC) and the U.S.
   Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). In addition, the
   City of Philadelphia's Department of Public Property administers
   city-owned properties not classified as "surplus."

   The Redevelopment Authority does not administer any of these properties
   and cannot provide information on their availability.

   The Redevelopment Authority administers a wide range of programs to
   assist in the financing of affordable housing development or
   preservation. Financing may be made available to individuals or to
   nonprofit or for-profit developers, for housing rehabilitation or new
   construction.

   Programs to Assist Individual Homeowners and Homebuyers
     * Philadelphia Home Improvement Loans (PHIL Loans)
     * Low-cost home improvement loans for income-qualified homeowners in
       the City of Philadelphia. Interest rates fixed at 3%, 6% or 9% for
       up to 20 years, depending on household income and size. Program
       restricted to single-family homes (1-4 units).
     * For more information, please contact the Central Intake Unit: (215)
       854-6515
     * Mend II Rental Rehabilitation
     * 10-year self-amortizing loans for owners of rental properties, for
       50% of the total rehabilitation cost, up to $10,000 per unit.
       Owners must secure balance of funds from other sources and must
       contribute 10% of the cost in the form of cash equity.
       Rehabilitated units must be rented to low- or moderate-income
       persons upon completion of work.
     * For more information, please contact the Housing Division: (215)
       209-8706
     * Financing Assistance for Housing Developers
     * The Authority provides various forms of financing assistance to
       developers of affordable rental and sales housing ventures.
     * For more information, please contact the Office of the Executive
       Director: (215) 209-8765

   Contact Information

   Herbert Wetzel, Executive Director
   (215) 209-8732

   Development Division: (215) 209-8695
     * Central Intake Unit: (215) 854-6515
     * Housing Division: (215) 209-8706

   For Property Owned by the Redevelopment Authority, please contact the
   Development Division: (215) 209-8695

   For City-Owned Surplus Property, please contact the Central Intake
   Unit: (215) 854-6515
