http://www.utah.gov/disclaimer.html


   Utah.gov How Do I


                     Search Utah.gov

                                    go

                                        Utah Scenery
   [other_r3_c1.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Utah.gov Home
   Living In Utah
   Learning In Utah
   Doing Buisiness In Utah
   Working In Utah
   Visiting Utah
   Utah Government
   All About Utah
   Utah.gov Events



   [business_in_utah_banner.gif]


                            Utah.gov Terms of Use

    INFORMATION ON THE STATE OF UTAH'S COMPUTER SYSTEMS IS MADE AVAILABLE
   AS A PUBLIC SERVICE, WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND,
                AND IS SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLAIMERS:
               1. ACCURACY, CHANGES AND CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.

     The State of Utah (State) tries to ensure that the information made
   available on Utah.gov websites is accurate and complete. Due to factors
    beyond the control of the State, however, it cannot guarantee against
    unauthorized modifications of information or errors made in inputting
   and posting data. The State may make changes to a web page at any time
   to update, add or correct the information made available. The State may
      elect to charge a fee for accessing or using information from the
      State's computer system, or may suspend or discontinue making the
                           information available.
                              2. NO WARRANTIES.

   The State disclaims any express or implied warranties related to making
    its computer system available for public use, and for any materials,
     information, graphics, products, or processes contained within its
   computer system. It makes no warranty, express or implied, nor assumes
   any responsibility for the use of information on the State's web sites
     or computer system/s, or for the computer system's fitness for any
   general or particular purpose. Nor does the State warrant that the use
    of information on the State's system will not infringe or violate the
    rights of others. The public is granted access to information on the
    State's computer system on a strictly "as is" basis. The State denies
                responsibility for the conduct of its users.
                    3. EXTERNAL LINKS; PERSONAL OPINIONS.

    State computer resources and materials may contain hypertext or other
     links to external Internet sites. These are provided only for your
       convenience. Any information, materials, personal opinions, or
    endorsements of products or services appearing on external sites are
       not controlled, sponsored, or approved by the State. The State
      disclaims legal responsibility for any information, materials or
       services made available on external sites, and for the personal
    opinions of individuals posted on any site, regardless of whether the
     State operates the site, unless the personal opinions are official
    opinions issued by members of the State government. No other sections
    of this disclaimer statement are applicable to external sites beyond
                          the control of the State.

                          4. COPYRIGHT LIMITATIONS.

       The State has made the content of certain pages of its websites
        available to the public. Anyone may view, copy or distribute
    information found within these web pages (not including the design or
   layout of the pages) for personal or informational use without owing an
      obligation to the State if the documents are not modified in any
     respect, and unless otherwise stated on the particular materials or
   information to which a restriction on free use applies. The State makes
    no warranty, however, that the materials contained within these pages
   are free from copyright claims, or other restrictions or limitations on
   free use or display. The State disclaims any liability for the improper
         or incorrect use of information obtained from its websites

                        5. ASSUMPTION OF RISK OF USE.

    One who uses the information available for public use on the State's
        computer system assumes the risk of using or relying on such
    information. Neither the State, its employees nor its agents shall be
     liable for any damages, including indirect, special, incidental, or
         consequential damages a user incurs as a result of viewing,
    distributing or copying materials on the sites made available to the
         public, even if advised of the possibility of such damages.

           6. MONITORING AND PROTECTING THE SYSTEM FROM INSTRUSION
    All State computer systems are subject to monitoring to assure proper
     functioning of the system and to provide security for the computer
   system's operation. By using the computer systems you are consenting to
   the exercise of such monitoring practices. The State reserves the right
     to use any legally appropriate measures to prevent and investigate
   anyone attempting to modify, deface, delete or otherwise tamper with or
    abuse a State website, server, database, information system or other
                           State technology asset

                        7. UTAH LAW AND JURISDICTION.

   The materials made available for public use on the State's websites are
   from computer systems located within the State, and are for the use and
    benefit of the citizens of Utah. Any person who uses these systems or
   attempts to gain access to information or materials on these systems is
    subject to the jurisdiction of the State of Utah. Any dispute arising
    from a person using or attempting to use information or materials on
    the State's websites shall be determined in accordance with Utah laws
                         and in the courts of Utah.


   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

     Site Map | Text Version | Contact Utah.gov | Terms of Use | Privacy
               Policy | Accessibility Policy | About Utah.gov
           Copyright © 2001 State of Utah - All rights reserved.
