http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=41

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   FIREARMS TRACING AND TRAFFICKING


   ATF Announces Online Technology to Stop Gun Traffickers

   Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers joined John W. Magaw, Director
   of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) today to launch
   Online LEAD, a new technology designed to aid law enforcement in its
   fight against illegal firearms traffickers. "Online LEAD" is the newest
   crime-fighting tool in ATF's "electronic crime fighting arsenal".

   ATF Crime Gun Trace Analysis Report

   This is the second year that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
   Firearms (ATF) has published a report on the results of crime gun
   traces conducted by ATFs National Tracing Center at the re-quest of
   Federal, State and local law enforcement officials participating in the
   Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative (YCGII). Publication of this
   Report serves three of ATFs critical missions: vigorous investigation
   of illegal transfers of firearms; assisting State and local law
   enforcement agencies in enforcing their firearm laws; and informing the
   public.

   Guns Used In Crime: Firearms, Crime, and Criminal Justice

   The report covers how often guns are used in crime, what categories of
   firearms are most often used, and what type of guns is preferred by
   criminals. This is the first of a series of reports on firearms and
   crime that will be part of a comprehensive report entitled Firearms,
   Crime, and Criminal Justice.

   Serial Number for Lost or Stolen Firearm


   Treasury, ATF Release Firearms Report, Gun Trafficking Actions

   "This report provides new analysis leading us to new measures in our
   continuing efforts to decrease firearms violence and to keep guns out
   of the hands of criminals and youth," said Secretary Summers. "Most
   important, ATF will conduct intensive inspections of the one-percent of
   dealers that account for well over half of all crime guns traced last
   year. If violations of law are found, we will take action against these
   dealers."

   Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative

   Report on the Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative (YCGII), a
   program which has traced over 76,000 guns used in crime in 27 cities
   and has led to the investigation and arrest of hundreds of illegal
   firearms traffickers supplying juveniles and criminals.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
