http://www.flra.gov/gc/rep/rep_faq.html

          [ Home ]    [ Decisions ]     [ Search ]    [ Site Map ]

                  REPRESENTATION PETITIONS AND PROCEEDINGS

   As part of the overall responsibility of administering the labor
   relations program for all Federal employees, only the FLRA may certify
   a labor organization to act as the exclusive representative of an
   appropriate unit of employees for collective bargaining or, thereafter,
   amend a certification or clarify matters relating to employee
   representation.  The Office of the General Counsel (OGC), through its
   seven Regional Offices, processes representation petitions and conducts
   union elections. The three-member Authority resolves appeals of
   Regional Director Decisions and Orders in representation cases
   concerning union elections and bargaining unit determinations.
     __________________________________________________________________

                            FAQs [p_checkbx1.jpg]

   REPRESENTATION PETITIONS
     * When is it necessary to file a representation petition?
     * What is an appropriate unit?
     * What are the purposes for which a representation petition may be
       filed?
     * Where should you file the petition?
     * What is a showing of interest and when is it required?
     * What is an adequate showing of interest?
     * Is it possible to narrow and resolve issues raised by a petition
       before a petition is filed?
     * What happens after a representation petition is filed?
     * Are meetings held to narrow an resolve issues held after a petition
       is filed?


   REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS

   Intervention
     * Once a representation petition is filed, how can another labor
       organization or agency become involved in the proceeding?
     * When must a request to intervene or a cross-petition be filed?
     * Does an incumbent exclusive representative need to submit any
       particular documents to intervene once a petition has been filed?
     * What must a request to intervene include if it is filed by a labor
       organization that is not the incumbent exclusive representative?
     * What must an employing agency submit to intervene in a
       representation proceeding?


   Investigation and/or Hearing
     * After a representation petition is filed, what happens next?
     * What happens after the Regional Director has investigated the
       petition?
     * What information is in a notice of hearing?
     * What happens at the prehearing conference?
     * What is the purpose of a hearing?
     * How are hearings conducted?
     * What rights do parties have at a representation hearing?
     * What happens after investigation and/or a hearing that the Regional
       Director has ordered?
     * If a party disagrees with the Regional Director's Decision and
       Order, what can a party do?

   Elections
     * What happens when all parties agree to an election?
     * How are employees notified that there is going to be an election?
     * How is the balloting conducted?
     * Can a party challenge the eligibility of a person to vote?
     * What are the choices that appear on the ballot?
     * How is it decided who wins an election?
     * When would the results of an election be unclear?
     * What happens if the result of an election is inconclusive where
       there are three choices none of which receives a majority of the
       votes cast?
     * Are there certain situations that may bar or preclude an election
       from being conducted in a petitioned-for unit?
     * Who should you contact if you have additional questions pertaining
       to representation issues?


   REPRESENTATION PETITIONS

   When is it necessary to file a representation petition?

   Under section 7102 of the Statute, each employee has the right to
   "form, join or assist any labor organization" and section 7111 provides
   for agency recognition of labor organizations that have been chosen by
   a majority of employees in an appropriate unit.  If employees want a
   labor organization to represent them in labor relations matters, a
   representation petition form (FLRA FORM 21) is filed with a Regional
   Office.  Once recognition has been granted, a petition is used to
   clarify or amend the recognition as necessary, e.g., agency
   reorganization.  This form prompts the Regional Office to begin
   representation proceedings.

   What is an appropriate unit?

   In order to assure that employees have the fullest freedom in
   exercising their rights under the Statute, the employees who are
   eligible to vote in a representation election must share a "clear and
   identifiable community of interest" and the unit must promote effective
   dealings with, and efficiency of the operations of, the agency
   involved.  Such a unit is called an "appropriate unit."  The Regional
   Director makes appropriate unit determinations.

   What are the purposes for which a representation petition may be filed?

   Pursuant to section 2422.1(a) and 2422.2(a) and (b) and (c):

   A representation petition may be filed to request:

    1. an election to determine if employees in an appropriate unit wish
       to be represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by an
       exclusive representative
    2. a determination of eligibility for dues allotment  in an
       appropriate unit without an exclusive representative
    3. an election to determine if employees in a unit no longer wish to
       be represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by an
       exclusive representative
    4. to seek clarification or amendment of a recognition or
       certification then in effect and/or any other matter relating to
       representation
    5. to consolidate two or more units, with or without an election, in
       an agency and for which a labor organization is the exclusive
       representative

   Where should you file the petition?

   Petitions are filed with the Regional Director for the Region in which
   the unit or employees affected by the issue raised in the petition are
   located.  If the unit(s) or employees are located in two or more of the
   seven regions, the petition is filed with the Regional Director for the
   region in which the headquarters of the agency or activity is located.
   See Section 2422.5(a) of the Regulations.

   What is a showing of interest and when is it required?

   A showing of interest means any of the following:  evidence of
   membership in a labor organization; employees' signed and dated
   authorization cards or petitions authorizing a labor organization to
   represent them for purposes of exclusive recognition; allotment of dues
   forms executed by an employee and the labor organization's authorized
   official; current dues records; an existing or recently expired
   agreement; current exclusive recognition or certification; employees'
   signed and dated petitions or cards indicating that they no longer
   desire to be represented by the currently recognized or certified labor
   organization; or cards indicating a desire that an election be held on
   a proposed consolidation of units; or other evidence approved by the
   Authority.

   The requirement that a showing of interest be made serves an
   administrative purpose to help avoid unnecessary expenditure of time
   and funds where there is no reasonable assurance that a genuine
   representation issue exists.

   A petition described under ## 1, 2, or 3, above, in the answer to the
   first question, must be accompanied by a showing of interest.  See
   Section 2422.1(a)(3).

   What is an adequate showing of interest?

   You must submit with the petition a showing of interest of not less
   than 30% of the employees in the unit involved in the petition and
   include an alphabetical list of the names constituting the showing of
   interest.  See Section 2422.3(c) of the Regulations and section
   7111(b)(1)(A) of the Statute.

   Is it possible to narrow and resolve issues raised by a petition before
   a petition is filed?

   Yes.  All parties affected by the representation issues that may be
   raised in a petition are encouraged to meet prior to the filing of a
   petition to discuss their interests and to narrow and resolve the
   issues.  If requested by all parties, a representative of the
   appropriate Regional Office will participate in these meetings.  For
   example, parties have requested that Regional Office staff meet with
   them to discuss representation issues that may arise as a result of a
   reorganization of the agency.  See Section 2422.13(a) of the
   Regulations.

   What happens after a representation petition is filed?

   After a petition is filed, the Regional Director notifies any labor
   organization, agency, or activity that the parties have identified as
   being affected by issues raised by the petition, that a petition has
   been filed.  The Regional Director also will make a reasonable effort
   to notify any other party affected by the issues raised by the
   petition.  See Section 2422.6(a).

   When appropriate, the Regional Director may also direct the agency or
   activity to post notices of the filing of the petition.

   Are meetings held to narrow an resolve issues held after a petition is
   filed?

   Yes.  After a petition is filed, a Regional Director may require all
   affected parties to meet to narrow and resolve the issues raised in the
   petition, e.g., to clarify the purpose of the petition; to obtain facts
   to clarify the petition; to prepare for a hearing.  See Section
   2422.13(b) of the Regulations.

   The parties can also enter into a joint stipulation of the facts that
   address all appropriate unit issues in lieu of a hearing.  See Section
   2422.20(b) of the Regulations.  In such cases, if the stipulation is
   adequate, the Regional Director reviews the record and issues a
   Decision and Order.


   REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS

   Intervention

   Once a representation petition is filed, how can another labor
   organization or agency become involved in the proceeding?

   A labor organization or an agency may file a request to intervene or a
   cross-petition with the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer before
   a hearing opens.  See Section 2422.8(b) of the Regulations.  A
   cross-petition is a petition which involves any employees in a unit
   covered by a pending representation.

   When must a request to intervene or a cross-petition be filed?

   A request to intervene and a cross-petition, accompanied by any
   necessary showing of interest, must be submitted in writing and filed
   with the Regional Director or Hearing Officer before the hearing
   opens.  See Section 2422.8(b) of the Regulations.

   If no hearing is held, the request and filing must occur prior to the
   Regional Director's decision on the matter.

   Does an incumbent exclusive representative need to submit any
   particular documents to intervene once a petition has been filed?

   An incumbent exclusive representative is the labor organization that is
   the current exclusive representative of all of the employees in the
   unit sought by the petition.  An incumbent exclusive representative
   will be considered a party in any representation proceeding raising
   issues that affect employees the incumbent represents, unless it serves
   the Regional Director with a written disclaimer of any representation
   interest in the claimed unit.  See Section 2422.8(d) of the
   Regulations.  Although not required, an incumbent exclusive
   representative should submit a copy of the contract or certification.

   What must a request to intervene include if it is filed by a labor
   organization that is not the incumbent exclusive representative ?

   Under Section 2422.8(c) of the Regulations, except for incumbent
   exclusive representatives, in addition to a statement that it has
   complied with section 7111(e) of the Statute (that is, that it has
   submitted to the Region and the agency involved a roster of its
   officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws,
   and a statement of its objectives) a labor organization must include
   one of the following:
     * a showing of interest of 10% or more of the employees in the unit
       covered by a petition seeking an election, with an alphabetical
       list of the names of the employees constituting the showing of
       interest; or

     * a current or recently expired collective bargaining agreement
       covering any of the employees in the unit affected by issues raised
       in the petition; or

     * evidence that it is or was, prior to a reorganization, the
       recognized or certified exclusive representative of any of the
       employees affected by issues raised in the petition.

   What must an employing agency submit to intervene in a representation
   proceeding?

   Nothing.  An employing agency or activity will be considered a party if
   any of its employees are affected by issues raised in the petition.
   See Section 2422.8(e) of the Regulations.

   Any other agency or activity seeking to intervene must submit evidence
   that one or more employees of the agency or activity may be affected by
   issues raised in the petition.  See Section 2422.8(f) of the
   Regulations.


   Investigation and/or Hearing

   After a representation petition is filed, what happens next?

   After the representation petition is filed, the Regional Director
   investigates the petition and any other matter deemed necessary.  The
   parties are required, during this investigation, to furnish the
   Regional Director all information concerning the parties, issues and
   agreements raised in or affected by the petition and to serve the
   parties with any information provided.  See Section 2422.15 of the
   Regulations.

   What happens after the Regional Director has investigated the petition?

   In a petition for an election, if the parties agree to appropriateness
   of the unit, they may enter into an election agreement subject to the
   approval of the Regional Director.   See Section 2422.16 of the
   Regulations.

   In any petition, if after an investigation, there is a material issue
   of fact or there is reasonable cause to believe a question concerning
   unit appropriateness exists, the Regional Director may issue a notice
   of hearing.  See Section 2422.30(b) of the Regulations.

   What information is in a notice of hearing?

   The notice of hearing advises the parties about the hearing, the issues
   raised in the petition, and establishes a date for a prehearing
   conference.  See Section 2422.17 of the Regulations.

   What happens at the prehearing conference?

   The purpose of a prehearing conference, which is conducted by the
   Hearing Officer, is to fully discuss, narrow and resolve issues set
   forth in the notification of the prehearing conference.  All parties
   must participate in the prehearing conference.

   What is the purpose of a hearing?

   Unlike a ULP hearing, a representation hearing is investigatory, not
   adversarial.  The sole purpose is to develop a full and complete record
   of relevant and material facts upon which a Regional Director will rely
   in issuing a Decision and Order.  See Section 2422.18(a) of the
   Regulations.

   How are hearings conducted?

   Hearings are conducted by a Hearing Officer who is appointed by the
   Regional Director.  The Hearing Officer's job is to ensure that all
   relevant and material facts concerning the matters at issue have been
   addressed by the parties on the record and that the record contains
   evidence on these matters.  See Section 2422.21(a).  All hearings are
   open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer.
   Unlike ULP hearings, there is no burden of proof, with the exception of
   proceedings on objections to elections.  Formal rules of evidence do
   not apply at the hearings.  See Section 2422.18(b) of the Regulations.

   What rights do parties have at a representation hearing?

   Parties at a hearing have the following rights:
     * To appear in person or by a representative
     * To examine and cross-examine witnesses
     * To introduce into the record relevant evidence
     * To present oral argument at the close of the hearing
     * To file a brief with the Regional Director within 30 days from the
       close of the hearing

   See Section 2422.20 of the Regulations.

   What happens after investigation and/or a hearing that the Regional
   Director has ordered?

   The Regional Director resolves the matter in dispute and, when
   appropriate, directs an election or approves an election agreement, or
   issues a Decision and Order.  See Section 2422.30 of the Regulations.

   If a party disagrees with the Regional Director's Decision and Order,
   what can a party do?

   A party that disagrees with a Regional Director's Decision and Order
   and seeks to appeal that determination must file an application for
   review with the Authority within 60 days of the Regional Director's
   Decision and Order.  This time limit for filing may not be extended or
   waived.  See Section 2422.31(a).  For additional information about
   applications for review and representation proceedings, see the
   Authority's discussion of representation matters.


   Elections

   What happens when all parties agree to an election?

   The parties are encouraged to enter into a voluntary election
   agreement.  These agreements concern the details and procedures of a
   representation election in an appropriate unit.  See Section 2422.16(a)
   of the Regulations.  If the parties are unable to agree on procedural
   matters -- the eligibility period (the payroll period during which an
   employee must be in an employment status with an agency or activity to
   be eligible to vote in a representation election), method of election,
   dates, hours, locations of the election -- the Regional Director
   decides the election procedure and issues a Direction of Election
   without prejudice to the rights of a party to file objections to the
   procedural conduct of the election.  The parties have an opportunity to
   have a hearing on any non-procedural matters.  See Section 2422.16(c)
   of the Regulations.

   How are employees notified that there is going to be an election?

   The Regional Director issues a Notice of Election.  This Notice is
   posted by the activity/agency in places where notices are customarily
   posted and distributed in a manner by which notices are normally
   distributed.  The notice describes the election procedures -- the
   appropriate unit, the eligibility period, dates and hours and locations
   of the election, a sample ballot, and the effect of the vote.  See
   Section 2422.23(b) of the Regulations.

   How is the balloting conducted?

   The Regional Director, through Regional Office agents, conducts all
   elections by secret ballot.  Depending upon the circumstances,
   elections are accomplished either by manual balloting, mail balloting,
   or a combination of both methods.  Whatever method is used, the
   Regional Office agents are responsible for ensuring the integrity of
   the secret-ballot process for the duration of the election.  The agents
   are responsible for ensuring that employees are given the opportunity
   to vote ballots without interference, restraint, or coercion.

   Can a party challenge the eligibility of a person to vote?

   Yes.  A party or the Regional Director, for good cause, may challenge
   the eligibility of any person to participate in the election prior to
   the employee voting.  In this instance, the individual who is the
   subject of the challenge is given the opportunity to vote a challenged
   ballot.  Any ballots that are unresolved before the tally of the
   ballots are impounded and preserved until a determination can be made,
   if necessary, by the Regional Director.

   What are the choices that appear on the ballot?

   Voters are given the opportunity to choose:
     * which of the labor organizations on the ballot the employees wish
       to have represent them; or
     * not to be represented by a labor organization (e.g., "no union" or
       "neither")

   How is it decided who wins an election?

   The choice that receives a majority of the votes cast in the election
   wins the election.  See Section 2422.25(c) of the Regulations.

   When would the results of an election be unclear?

   The results of an election would be unclear if the election is
   inconclusive.  That is, where the challenged ballots are not sufficient
   in number to affect the outcome of the election in certain situations,
   for example, if the ballot has at least three choices, one of which is
   "no union" or "neither" and the votes are equally divided.  See section
   2422.29(a) of the Regulations.

   What happens if the result of an election is inconclusive where there
   are three choices none of which receives a majority of the votes cast?

   In an election involving at least three choices and none of the choices
   receives a majority of the valid votes cast, a runoff election will be
   conducted between the two choices receiving the highest number of
   votes.  See Section 2422.28 of the Regulations.
     * For example, in an election where 500 people voted and assuming no
       challenged ballots, if labor organization A receives 125 votes
       cast, labor organization B receives 240 votes cast, and "no union"
       receives 135 votes cast, there will be a runoff election between
       the two choices "labor organization B" and "no union."  If labor
       organization B receives a majority of the valid votes cast in the
       runoff election it is certified as the exclusive representative.

   Are there certain situations that may bar or preclude an election from
   being conducted in a petitioned-for unit?

   Yes, the following situations bar an election from being conducted in a
   petition-for unit:
     * Election Bar -- No election will be conducted if a valid election
       has been conducted in the unit in the preceding 12 calendar months.
     * Certification Bar -- No election will be conducted if the FLRA has
       certified a labor organization as the exclusive representative of
       employees in the appropriate unit within the previous 12 calendar
       months.  If a signed and dated agreement covering the claimed unit
       has been entered into, the contract bar rules would apply.
     * Contract Bar -- No election can be held if there is a collective
       bargaining agreement covering any employees in the claimed units,
       unless
          + the collective bargaining agreement has been in effect for
            more than three years, or
          + the petition for exclusive recognition is filed 60-105 days
            before the expiration date of the agreement.
       and the date of the agreement must be clear and unambiguous.

   Who should you contact if you have additional questions pertaining to
   representation issues?

   As assigned by each Regional Director, Regional Representation
   Specialists (RRS), along with the Regional Office Agents, deliver OGC
   representation services within their respective Regions. The RRS
   coordinates the day-to-day delivery of such services his/her Regional
   Office and is available to field public inquiries concerning
   representation matters.  The following chart lists each of the seven
   RRSs.  Visit the Regional Office page for the address of each of the
   Regions.

                                   REGION

                            REG. REP. SPECIALIST

                                   TEL. #

                                   E-MAIL

   Atlanta
   Annette Allen 404-331-5312, x14 aallen@flra.gov
   Boston Carol Blackburn 617-424-5731, x19 cblackburn@flra.gov
   Chicago Judith Ramey 312-886-3465, x21 jramey@flra.gov
   Dallas Vacant
   Denver Barry Fields 303-844-5226, x21 bfields@flra.gov
   San Francisco Pat Baran 415-356-5002, x15 pbaran@flra.gov
   Washington Quinn Anderson 202-482-6702, x24 qanderson@flra.gov


   For additional information/guidance concerning representation matters,
   consult the General Counsel's Certification Checklist which assists
   unions and agencies in determining if their current certification
   properly identifies the bargaining unit and the union and agency to the
   collective bargaining relationship, i.e., whether or not you need to
   file a petition to clarify a unit.

          [ Home ]    [ Decisions ]     [ Search ]    [ Site Map ]
