http://murray.senate.gov/~murray/releases/01/11/2001b30508.html

                              [pressheader.gif]

     Senator Murray Secures $105 Million for Puget Sound Transportation
                                 Priorities
     Funding will help ease congestion, reduce commute times and improve
   travel safety. Sen. Murray secures a record $190 million for Washington
           State, nearly triple the $68 million received last year

   For Immediate Release: November 29, 2001

   (WASHINGTON, D.C.) U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Chair of the
   Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced $105
   million for Puget Sound transportation projects in the fiscal year 2002
   Transportation Appropriations Conference Report. This increased funding
   will address critical infrastructure needs throughout the region,
   including improving roads, rail, ferries, and transit facilities.

   The Conference Report is the final step in the year-long appropriations
   process. The measure is expected to pass the House and Senate within
   days before going to the President to become law.

   Senator Murray also secured significant increases in the funding for
   Pipeline Safety.

   "Addressing our transportation frustrations is one of my top
   priorities," Senator Murray said. "As chair of the transportation
   subcommittee, I have significantly increased federal funding for the
   Puget Sound region and Washington state. These increased monies will
   help ease congestion by investing in public transportation, highways
   and other critical transportation infrastructure."

   Transportation Earmarks for the Puget Sound Region:

   Sounder Commuter Rail ($20 million)

     This funding will help develop Sounder Commuter Rail transit
   facilities between Tacoma and Lakewood to the south.

   Pierce Transit ($2.5 million)

     To help replace 19 high-mileage diesel buses with natural gas
   vehicles.

   Issaquah Highlands Park and Ride ($2 million)

     To construct a 500 stall park and ride garage along the South Plateau
   Access Rd.

   Regional Express Transit Hubs ($9.5 million)

     To develop transit hubs throughout the region including park and ride
   facilities, transit centers, HOC direct access ramps, and access for
   buses and carpools. The designated sites are: Bellevue, Lynnwood,
   Kirkland, Federal Way, and Lakewood.

   Bellevue Transportation Center ($1.6 million)

     To develop Bellevue multi-modal transit hub.

   South Park Bridge ($1 million)

     This funding will assist King County, the cities of Seattle and
   Tukwila in building a new bridge across the Dumamish River.

   Renton/Port Quendall I-405 Project ($5 million)

     To make road improvements to I-405, which will result in the
   development of the Port Quendall Business Project.

   FAST Corridor ($20 million)

     A series of grade-crossings and port-access projects in the corridor
   between Everett and Tacoma, which will expedite passenger and freight
   mobility in the Puget Sound Region. Senator Murray has secured more
   than $100 million over the last 4 years for FAST corridor.

   City of Kent/Second Avenue Extension project ($900,000)

     To redevelop 22.5 acres of prime property in the city's urban center
   adjacent to a new Sound Transit commuter rail station that opened in
   Feb. 2001. The mixed-use development will incorporate retail, housing,
   public spaces, a hotel and entertainment facilities.

   Bainbridge Ferry ($4 million)

     The Bainbridge-Seattle route is the busiest route in the Seattle
   ferry system. This funding will replace old creosote treated timber
   pilings with new, environmentally friendly steel pipe technology.

   Seattle Pier 36 Rehabilitation or Move ($12.6 million)

     During the Nisqually earthquake, the Coast Guard facility on Pier 36
   was damaged. This grant will enable the Coast Guard to either repair
   the damaged pier or to move their facility to Terminal 91.

   SeaTac ($26 million)

     For facility improvements for air traffic control at SeaTac.

   Noise Mitigation at SeaTac Airport

     The bill directs the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to
   expeditiously commit funds and undertake noise mitigation activities to
   implement the recent agreement between the FAA, the Port of Seattle,
   the Highline School District and the State of Washington.

   I-90 Lane Reconfiguration

     The Washington DOT is seeking to reconfigure the traffic flow of
   Interstate 90 between I-5 and I-405. Sen. Murray wrote language into
   the bill to require the Federal Highway Administration to study the
   safety of widening I-90.

   Pipeline Safety

   Senator Murray also secured record funding increases for Pipeline
   Safety across the country.

     The Conference Report dedicates $58.35 million for the Office of
   Pipeline Safety, which is $5 million more than the President's request
   and $11 million more than last year.

     The Report fully funds 26 new positions at the Office of Pipeline
   safety over two years. It also includes increased funding for research
   and development, testing initiatives, and community right to know.

                                     ###
