http://agoa.gov/kjr21300.PDF

   HIGHLIGHTS OF THE U.S.-SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAN TRADE AND ECONOMIC
   COOPERATION FORUM 29-30,200l OCTOBER U.S. AND AFRICAN LEADERS MEET for
   their support of the coalition against ter- TO DISCUSS THE AFRICA N
   rorism. He also noted the October 17, 2001 GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
   meeting in Dakar, Senegal which con- demned terrorism and underscored
   Africa 's "We share the same goal - to forge a commitment to join the
   coalition. President future of more openness, trade and Bush went on to
   call AGOA "one of the freedom... The United States will work in most
   hopeful acts that the Congress has partnership with African nations to
   help passed" as it provides "a road map for how them build the
   institutions and expertise ihe United States and Africa can tap the
   they need to benefit from trade. " power of markets to improve the
   lives of President George W. Bush With these words, President George W.
   Bush launched the first-ever U.S.-Sub- President Bush Saharan African
   Trade and Economic addresses dele- Cooperation Forum held October
   29-30, gates at the 2001 at the State Department in Washing- AGOA Forum
   ton, DC, announcing two programs to help Africans sell more of their
   products on the global market and encouraging American investment in
   Africa. This historic event, Photo by Michael Gross, State Department
   attended by ministers from the 35 eligible sub-Saharan African nations,
   was an our citizens." outgrowth of the African Growth and AGOA provides
   duty free access to the U.S. Opportunity Act (AGOA) signed into law in
   market for most products from eligible May 2000. President Bush
   announced the African countries. Speakers pointed to the establishment
   of the AGOA Forum at a positive results gained under AGOA as Rose
   Garden ceremony on May 16,200 1. trade with Sub-Saharan Africa expanded
   17 percent over last year and African exports to President Bush began
   his remarks by thank- the U.S. reached $11.6 billion in the first ing
   the African nations for their expressions AGOA half of 2001. incentives
   brought an of sympathy in the wake of the September estimated $1
   billion in investment to the 11 attacks and expressing appreciation
   region and has created new jobs in various (Contmuedfiom page 1) for
   entrepreneurship and investment to industries in many African
   countries. flourish, it is the private sector, in this case The
   U.S.-Sub-Saharan Trade and Development Forum looked at some success
   stories, exam- businesses run by hardworking people in ined existing
   obstacles, and outlined steps that America and Africa, which makes the
   U.S. and Sub-Saharan African nations can development and well-being
   sustainable." jointly take to stimulate economic growth and trade,
   enhance democracy and good govern- In response, Senegalese Foreign
   Minister ance, and combat HIV/AIDS. Issues raised Cheikh Tidiane Gadio
   discussed the New included ways to attract foreign investment,
   Partnership for African Development, which tackle debt, the need for
   grants versus loans, emerged from a recent summit among 15 improving
   American perceptions of Africa, African heads of state in Abuja,
   Nigeria and and arranging training workshops to ease said that Africa
   was looking for new partners market access for African products. and
   investors. He acknowledged the need for a paradigm shift as "Africa
   wants to change its approach to development with strong new Ghanaian
   Minister of Trade Dr. Kofi Apraku concepts that cast the private
   sector-African highlighted the importance of holding this and
   international-as the driving force of Forum saying: "We live in a
   difficult, African development.. .AGOA is good for competitive and
   complicated world today. Africa. Let us hope for its rapid extension to
   While the potential for success is great, that our entire continent."
   for failure is even greater. It is thus right that we should gather [in
   Washington] to find ways to positively enhance our commercial linkages
   after On the second day, the plenary sessions, with the U.S. especially
   and with each other." the African delegates proceeded to Capitol Hill
   for a luncheon addressed by Congressman, J. There was a clear
   recognition of the impor- C. Watts and sponsored by the Overseas Pri-
   tance of the private sector. Secretary of State Export- vate Investment
   Corporation, the Powell affirmed that "while good governance import
   Bank and the U.S. Trade and Develop- is essential to creating the
   conditions needed ment Agency. African Ministers listen to
   presentations during the AGOA Forum. Sessions were translated into
   French and Portuguese. Photo by Ann Thompson 2 They met with
   congressional leaders includ- us to pull ourselves up by the
   bootstraps, a ing House International Relations Committee window of
   empowerment, a window of oppor- Chairman Henry Hyde and House African
   tunity for job creation and poverty alleviation, Subcommittee Chairman
   Ed Royce. a vehicle for attraction of foreign direct Royce commended
   the African diplomatic investments through the lucrative market corps
   for their help in developing and passing access opportunities that it
   affords." AGOA and said that AGOA has been a "real success" as trade is
   up and badly needed jobs US Trade Representative Robert Zoellick sum-
   are being created. AGOA, according to Royce, marized the Forum well
   when he said, "This has also "encouraged valuable economic and forum
   sends a message to the world that U.S. commercial reform" which has
   attracted for- commitment to prosperity and freedom in eign investment.
   Sub-Saharan Africa is solid, our conviction is strong and our
   partnership vibrant. AGOA is a The Lesotho Minister of Industry, Trade
   and gift, an opportunity we must seize, to open Marketing Mpho Meli
   Malie expressed the U.S. markets for Africa, open African markets
   sentiments of many of his African colleagues for Americans, and open
   our societies and when he said, "We have viewed AGOA as a people to one
   another through a positive - ray of hope an initiative that is there to
   assist agency of economic empowerment, opportu- nity and hope."
   4mbassador Zoellick leads discussion about U.S.-Africa :rade issues
   with Forum delegates Photo by Ann Thompson, State Department AGOA FORUM
   ANNOUNCEMENTS President George W. Bush announced the following three
   initiatives on October 29: l U.S. Trade and Development Agency to
   establish Sub-Saharan Regional Trade Office in Johannesburg l OPIC
   Sub-Saharan Support Facility created with $200 million line of credit l
   Trade for African Development and Enterprise Program to establish
   regional hubs for global competitiveness USTR Robert Zoellick signed
   two agreements on October 30: l U.S.-Nigerian Joint Declaration on
   Electronic Commerce l Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA)
   between the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) and
   the U.S. - the first TIFA between the U.S. and Sub-Saharan Africa 3
   FORUM SCHEDULE 1st Plenary: Implementation of AGOA and Strategies to
   Expand Trade Co-chairs: US Trade Representative Robert B. Zoellick
   Lesotho's Minister of Industry, Trade and Marketing Mpho Meli Malie 2nd
   Plenary: US African Outcome, Administration Directions Co-chairs: US
   Secretary of State Cohn Powell Senegal's Minister of Foreign Affairs
   Cheikh Tidiane Gadio 3rd Plenary: Strengthening Commercial Linkages
   Co-chairs: US Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans Ghana's Minister of
   Trade and Industry Koti K. Apraku 4th Plenary: Sound Policies
   Co-chairs: US Secretary of Treasury Paul H. O'Neill Mauritius' Minister
   of Industry, Commerce and International Trade Jaya Krishna Cuttaree 5th
   Plenary: HIV/AIDS Co-chairs: US Agency for International Development
   Director Andrew Natsios Ethiopia's Minister of Trade and Industry
   Kassahun Ayele Presentation: Coalition Building by National Security
   Advisor Condoleezza Rice USEFUL WEBSITES: Full Texts of Speeches and
   Other AGOA Information President Bush:
   http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2001/10/20011029-2.htm1
   Secretary Powell:
   http:Nwww.state.gov.secretary/rm/2001/index.cfm?docid=5780 Secretary
   O'Neill: http://www.treas.gov/press/releases/po74O.htm USTR Zoellick:
   http:Nwww.ustr.govlreleases/200 I/IO/O I-90.htm AGOA General Website:
   http://www.agoa.gov AGOA Fact Sheet:
   http:Nwww.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/200 I/l O/200 11029.html USAID
   Fact Sheet on Trade for African Development and Enterprise Program:
   http://www.usaid.gov/press/releases/200 l/fsO 11107.htm AGOA Forum
   Final Statement: http://usinfo.state.gov/admin/OO9/aef401 .htm OPIC
   Sub-Saharan Support Facility Fact Sheet:
   http://www.opic.gov/PressReleases/2001/1-42.htm Press Release TDA to
   establish Africa Regional Trade Office:
   http://www.tda.gov/trade/press/Oct29_0 1 .html Presented by the Office
   of Public Diplomacy, Bureau of African Affairs, U.S. State Department 4
