http://www.ctb.uscourts.gov/vcis.htm

   U.S. Bankruptcy Court Seal

                                                 UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                                                     District of Connecticut
                                                        VCIS Information

                                                  Voice Case Information System
                                                      Phone 1 800 800 5113


   Addresses
   Bankruptcy Judges
   Court Calendar
   Directions
   Fees
   Forms
   Holiday Schedule
   Local Rules
   Opinions
   Phone Numbers
   Procedures
   Public Information
   Standing Orders
   Table of Contents
   Trustees
   Blank Spacer
   Voice Case Information
   Web Pacer Facts
   Customer Service Survey
   Home



   The Voice Case Information System is designed to help make information
   gathering on Bankruptcy cases easier and more efficient. It works by
   simply calling the above number. The phone is answered by a machine
   that will allow the caller to search for case information.

   Once a case has been chosen, the automated system provides a great deal
   of information. It states the basic case information including the case
   number, debtor name, SSN / Tax ID, chapter, date filed, asset status,
   attorney name, trustee name, and judge assigned to the case. In
   addition, other pertinent information is listed including case status,
   date for next activity (such as 341 hearing), and the location of the
   next activity. At the end of each case listing, the caller is given the
   option to have the party names spelled. This is very useful for some of
   the more complex names that the automated systems doesn't pronounce
   clearly. A caller is allowed to search up to 5 cases per call. Our
   recently updated systems uses 4 different phone lines, so busy signals
   are virtually eliminated.

   This service is provided to the public free of charge.

   If you have any questions about VCIS, please call the Clerk's Office in
   Hartford at 860 240 3675
