http://www.cold.ca.gov/helpfaq.asp



                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   DGS Home
   CA On-Line Directory Home
   9-1-1 Instructions
   Dialing Information
   California Orgchart
   Agency Information
   Employee Information
   Help FAQ
   Contact Us
   Department of General Services


   Department of General Services (DGS), Telecommunications Division



   California On-Line Directory, Employee Information, Frequently Asked
   Questions

   9-1-1 Instructions Dialing Information California Orgchart Agency
   Information Employee Information

                         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

     * QUESTION: How do I view or print the State of California 9-1-1
       Instructions?

     * ANSWER: If you do not have Adobe Acrobat version 4.0 installed on
       your computer, click on this link, Adobe Acrobat Reader to download
       a free copy of the Adobe Acrobat version 4.0 Reader and install on
       your computer. Then click on this link to download the 9-1-1
       Instructions. To print after download, go to menu item File, then
       Print, or ask your IT person for help.

     * QUESTION: How do I view or print the State of California
       Organization Chart?

     * ANSWER: If you do not have Adobe Acrobat version 4.0 installed on
       your computer, click on this link, Adobe Acrobat Reader to download
       a free copy of the Adobe Acrobat version 4.0 Reader and install on
       your computer. Then click on this link to download the California
       Orgchart. To print after download, go to menu item File, then
       Print, or ask your IT person for help.

     * QUESTION: How do I view or print the State of California Dialing
       Information?

     * ANSWER: If you do not have Adobe Acrobat version 4.0 installed on
       your computer, click on this link, Adobe Acrobat Reader to download
       a free copy of the Adobe Acrobat version 4.0 Reader and install on
       your computer. Then click on this link to download the Dialing
       Information. To print after download, go to menu item File, then
       Print, or ask your IT person for help.

     * QUESTION: How do I find a State of California Employee's telephone
       number?

     * ANSWER: Click on the Employee Information button, then type in the
       last name comma first name (with no space after comma) , then click
       the submit button.

     QUESTION: What if I can't remember the person's full name?
     * ANSWER 1: Try the Last Employee Information option for the last
       name, and search by the employee last name.

     * ANSWER 2: Try the partial Last Employee Information option with the
       1^st 4-characters or more of the employee's last name.

     QUESTION: Why can't I find a State of California Employee's telephone
   number?
     * ANSWER 1: Try spelling variations on the full name. You may not
       have spelled the full name correctly.

     * ANSWER 2: Try the Last Employee Information option for the last
       name, and search by the employee's last name.

     * ANSWER 3: Try the Partial Last Employee Information option with the
       1^st 4-characters or more of the employee's last name.

     * ANSWER 4: The employee you are looking for may not have a listing.
       Agencies are not required to list employees. Some option to not be
       listed.

     QUESTION: Why do some State of California Employees have internet
   e-mail addresses and some do not?
     * ANSWER: Some do not have internet e-mail, or they optioned not to
       have it listed.

     QUESTION: I tried everything and still can't find a State of
   California Employee's telephone number. Why?
     * ANSWER: The employee you are looking for may not have a listing.
       Agencies are not required to list employees. Some option to not be
       listed.

     QUESTION: How do I find a State of California Agency telephone
   number?
     * ANSWER: Select the Agency Information button, then select the
       agency from the drop down list, then click the submit button.

     * ANSWER: Select the Agency Information Keyword Search link, then
       provide a keyword or phrase to search for, then click on the Search
       button.

     QUESTION: Why can't I find a State of California Agency telephone
   number?
     * ANSWER: The Agency you are looking for may not have a listing.
       Agencies are not required to have a listing.

     QUESTION: How can I speak to a live State of California Directory
   Information Agent?
     * ANSWER: To speak to an Information Agent dial:
       (916) 657-9900.

   Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
