http://www.quality.nist.gov/Issue_Sheet_Model.htm


   Baldrige National Quality Program links to Homepage. National Institute
   of Standards and Technology logo links to NIST Homepage. Quality
   artwork in banner.

   Homepage link Award Recipients link Baldrige Process link Materials
   Available link Search link Site Map link Bottom section of banner no
   links.


   Role Model Issue Sheet links to PDF file. BALDRIGE: Recognizing Role
   Model Practices of World Class Organizations
   PDF Version
   A paper copy of this document will be mailed if requested from
   nqp@nist.gov or by calling (301) 975-2036.
   BALDRIGE: Recognizing Role Model Practices of World Class Organizations
   provides CEO's with unique insights into the characteristics that make
   Baldrige Award recipients top achievers. Based on an analysis of the
   scoring data of the 1999 and 2000 Award recipients, the Baldrige
   Program has identified the following characteristics:
   - Visionary leadership
   - A focus on customer and market knowledge and customer relationships
   - High performance work systems and employee education and development
   - Clearly designed and well-managed processes for product and service
   delivery
   - Strong financial and market results.
   The issue sheet provides a brief overview on the characteristics, and
   it features three Award recipients as examples: 1999 Award recipient BI
   and 2000 Award recipients KARLEE and OMI.
   You need to have Acrobat Reader installed on your computer to view the
   PDF file. If you do not have Acrobat Reader installed on your computer,
   click on the Acrobat icon below and download the program. People with
   visual disabilities can download tools and information at
   http://access.adobe.com to help make Adobe PDF files accessible.
   Click here to link to the Adobe web site to download Acrobat to be able
   to view PDF files.
   BNQP Website comments:
   nqp@nist.gov
   Date created: 7/29/2001
   Last updated: 12/10/2001
