http://www.src.wa.gov/news/pr/2002/mcdonaldpr011002.htm

                                  [2h_media.jpg]

                           McDonald, Murray release new
                      regional transportation plan compromise



   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   January 10, 2002


                                 FOR INTERVIEWS CONTACT:
                        Sen. Dan McDonald (360) 786-7694
                           Rep. Ed Murray (360) 786-7826

      OLYMPIA…Making good on their promise to work through the holidays to
      find common ground on a transportation plan to reduce congestion and
      improve safety for Puget Sound drivers, state Sen. Dan McDonald,
      R-Bellevue, and state Rep. Edward Murray, D-Seattle, today released
      their regional transportation plan compromise.
      “This plan bridges the gap between the House and Senate, Democrats and
      Republicans and the east and west sides of Lake Washington,” Murray
      said. “It allows voters to choose to fund significant improvements to
      our region’s highways, while continuing to promote transit solutions
      that relieve congestion.”

      “Now it’s time to demonstrate leadership and make this happen,”
      McDonald said.  “Our region is at a crossroads.  The people who commute
      to work every day or who battle our traffic to get their children to
      school have lost all patience and are looking for a creative regional
      solution from this Legislature. We need to get this bill passed—and we
      need to do it as soon as possible.”
      The regional compromise contains many of the same basic components as
      Senate Bill 6140, the regional transportation bill approved by the
      Senate last session, including:
      °  Allowing the people with the greatest transportation problems (those
      in King, Pierce, and Snohomish counties) to develop a plan to address
      their needs;
      ° Ensuring accountability by requiring county council members to serve
      on the planning and governing boards which develop and implement the
      plans; and
      °  Requiring a vote of the people impacted by the proposed plan before
      taxes can be levied and construction can begin.
      “We’ve heard loud and clear that the voters want a say in how their
      money is spent,” McDonald said.
      “We’ve also heard that people want a balanced approach that allows them
      to choose to fund transit, roads, monorail and other options,” Murray
      said.  “I think we’ve struck a great compromise.”
      New components added as a result of Murray and McDonald’s negotiations
      include:
      °  A joint ballot measure strategy that allows the county/regional
      group to partner with the Regional Transit Authority (RTA) to leverage
      remaining taxing authority from the RTA to fund transit and carpool
      projects with the larger regional transportation plan to be submitted
      to the voters; and
      °  A city monorail option that allows Seattle voters to fund a monorail
      system.
      McDonald and Murray have been meeting with transportation leaders and
      members of their respective parties to build support for the plan.
      If the plan is approved by the Legislature, it will take effect
      immediately so counties can begin developing a regional proposal for
      voter approval as soon as possible.

                                     —30—

         For more information contact Janelle M. Guthrie, Senate Republican
             Communications Director, at 360-786-7516 or via e-mail at
      guthrie_ja@leg.wa.gov or Neil Parekh, House Democratic Communications,
                      at 360-786-7255 or parekh_ne@leg.wa.gov




   [leg._building.jpg] About Your Senator [bd12538_.jpg] Issues In Focus
   [microphone2.jpg] Media Center/Breaking News

                           Return to SRC Home Page
   Thank you for your interest in the Washington State Senate Republican
   Caucus.
   If you have questions, you may contact the caucus office at:
    PO Box 40462, Olympia, WA 98504-0462, (360) 786-7517
   or e-mail: Republican Caucus for further assistance.
   10/08/01
