http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=38

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   VALUES-BASED ORGANIZATIONS


   Best Practices - Macon, Georgia

   Mayor Jim Marshall has reached out to all the local faith communities
   in the city of Macon, GA to encourage mentoring and other programs for
   young people. Mayor Marshall believes that if the resources of such a
   large religious community could be focused on the needs of at-risk
   youth, "there would not be any at-risk youth in Macon or surrounding
   Bibb County."

   Boston Ten-Point Coalition

   The Boston Ten-Point Coalition -- Operation 2006 participated in
   Boston's Operation Ceasefire neighborhood forums, at which youth were
   given zero tolerance messages and offered services. The Coalition also
   is linked to Boston's strategy to prevent youth violence. The Boston
   Ten-Point Coalition Operation 2006 launched the National Ten-Point
   Coalition to develop similar programs in other cities.

   Center for Community and Interfaith Partnerships

   The Center for Community and Interfaith Partnerships links community
   and faith-based organizations to the Department of Housing and Urban
   Development. The Center is not a funding source, it fulfills its
   mission by seeking input, sharing resources, and building a network of
   organizations to maximize the impact of local and national community
   development projects.

   Churches Take a Corner (CTAC)

   An interfaith, grassroots, community-based organization fighting
   substance abuse, violence, racism, and prejudice in every community
   where we work.

   National Ten-Point Leadership Foundation

   This foundation helps build local church coalitions that will take
   positive action and reach out to inner city youth.

   Simon Funds Faith-Based Programs for Crime, Addiction

   Organizations in local communities that use faith-based approaches to
   address social problems such as crime, addiction, homelessness and
   poverty, and nonprofits that focus on at-risk youths, may be eligible
   for grants from the William E. Simon Foundation.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
