http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/order2.pdf

   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA : MDL NO.
   1355 IN RE: PROPULSID : PRODUCTS LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION: L ::
   JUDGE FALLON : MAG. JUDGE AFRICK :: .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. : THIS DOCUMENT RELATES
   TO ALL CASES PRETRIAL ORDER NO. 2 Following the initial pretrial
   conference held on Thursday, September 28, 2000, the following order is
   issued: I. INTRODUCTION: It is not yet known how many attorneys will
   eventually join this litigation, but we can assume it will be a large
   number. As attorneys involved in a multidistrict case, you will
   probably be laboring together for some time in the future with work
   progressively becoming more complicated and exacting. Some of you know
   each other and some are complete strangers. Undoubtedly each has a
   different style and personality. It is likely that during the course of
   this litigation your working relationship will occasionally be
   strained, communication derailed, and mutual trust questioned. The just
   and efficient resolution of this litigation will depend in large
   measure on the way you as attorneys comport yourselves and overcome the
   temptations and trepidations inherent in a case of this magnitude.
   Prominent in MCL 3d at Section 20.21 is the following reference to
   courtesy and professionalism: The added demands and burdens of complex
   litigation place a premium on professionalism. An attitude by counsel
   of cooperation, professional courtesy, and acceptance of the
   obligations owed as officers of the court is critical to the successful
   management of the litigation. The Court expects, indeed insists, that
   these two words  "Courtesy" and "Professionalism"  permeate this
   proceeding from now until this litigation is concluded. The Court
   record should never be the repository of ill chosen words arising out
   of a sense of frustration over real or imagined issues. Because of the
   high level of competence and experience displayed by the attorneys who
   attended the initial conference the Court is confident that this
   objective will be achieved without judicial intervention. II. FILING OF
   PRE-TRIAL ORDER No. 2 A copy of this Order shall be filed in each case
   transferred to this District and shall apply to all such cases removed
   to or transferred to this Court. In cases subsequently filed, a copy
   will be provided by the Clerk to each Plaintiff at the time of filing
   the complaint. In cases subsequently removed or transferred to this
   Court, a copy will be provided by the Clerk to each new party upon
   removal or transfer. III. MOTIONS A. Notice of Substantive Motions
   Except for unusual circumstances as determined by the Court or when a
   ruling is required on a shortened basis, substantive motions shall not
   be brought for hearing at any time other than 2 a regularly scheduled
   status conference, to be set from time to time by the Court. A
   substantive motion is one which involves legal issues and is outcome
   determinative, such as a motion for summary judgment or class
   certification, etc. B. Length of Briefs Briefs in support of, or in
   opposition to, any motions may not exceed twenty (20) pages without
   leave of Court. Reply briefs shall be limited to fifteen (15) pages
   without leave of Court. C. Briefing Schedule Absent an Order of the
   Court, briefs in response to motions shall be filed twenty-one (21)
   days after the date of service. Any replies thereto shall be filed
   within ten (10) days after service of the response. In order to be
   heard at a regularly scheduled status conference, motions must be fully
   briefed at least one week before the conference. D. Telephone Status
   Conferences Status Conferences may be conducted by telephone at the
   Court's discretion by prior arrangement with the Court's chambers,
   provided that all interested parties are available and receive at least
   forty-eight (48) hours notice. In an emergency, the Court may shorten
   the notice requirement. Telephone conference calls will often serve as
   an efficient substitute for Court appearances, as for example, where
   counsel desire to present short arguments and obtain an immediate
   ruling. The Court itself may initiate conference calls on procedural or
   scheduling matters. 3 IV. SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS A. Orders Henceforth,
   the Clerk of Court shall forward only to Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel
   and Defendants' Liaison Counsel a copy of each order or other document
   normally served by the Clerk. Service on Liaison Counsel shall be
   considered service on all parties. B. Pleadings, Motions, and Other
   Documents A party filing a pleading, motion, or other document shall
   provide five (5) copies to Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel and five (5)
   copies to Defendants' Liaison Counsel. A copy of the document shall
   also be submitted to Liaison Counsel on a disc or CD-ROM in either
   WordPerfect format or Microsoft Word. Service on Plaintiffs' Liaison
   Counsel constitutes service on all Plaintiffs' Counsel and Plaintiffs
   who are unrepresented. Service on Liaison Counsel for the
   pharmaceutical Defendants constitutes service on Johnson & Johnson and
   Janssen Pharmaceutica. Service and distribution by Liaison Counsel to
   other attorneys of record shall be by overnight courier service or
   telecopier, reserving to any receiving counsel the right to waive, in
   writing, such receipt. C. Electronic Service / Web Site / Virtual
   Depository Plaintiffs and Defendants are to confer as to whether
   electronic service of documents is appropriate in these actions and/or
   whether a web site and virtual depository would be helpful and advance
   the course of this litigation. At the appropriate time, counsel for the
   parties through their representatives shall report to the Court
   regarding these matters. 4 V. ORGANIZATION OF COUNSEL A. Plaintiffs'
   Liaison Counsel The Court designates Russ Herman to be Plaintiffs'
   Liaison Counsel. The responsibilities of Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel
   shall be the following: 1. to serve as the recipient for all Court
   orders; 2. to coordinate service and filings; 3. to maintain and
   distribute to co-counsel and to Defendants' Liaison Counsel an
   up-to-date service list; 4. to receive and distribute pleadings,
   orders, and motions by overnight courier service or telecopier within
   two days after receipt, unless such service has been waived, in
   writing, by a receiving counsel. 5. to establish and maintain a
   document depository to be available to all plaintiffs counsel; 6. to
   maintain and make available to all plaintiffs counsel of record at
   reasonable hours a complete file of all documents served by or upon
   each party (except such documents as may be available at a document
   depository); 7. to carry out such other duties as the Court may order.
   Liaison Counsel shall be entitled to seek reimbursement for costs
   expended at the time and in a manner approved by the Court. B.
   Plaintiffs' Steering Committee 1. Formation It is the Court's intent to
   appoint a Plaintiffs' Steering Committee ("PSC") to conduct and
   coordinate the discovery stage of this litigation with the Defendants'
   representatives. Applications/nominations for the PSC positions must be
   filed as an original and one copy with the Clerk's Office on or before
   October 10, 2000. A copy must also be served upon counsel 5 named in
   the attached list on the day of filing. The main criteria for
   membership in the PSC will be: (a) willingness and availability to
   commit to a time consuming project; (b) ability to work cooperatively
   with others; and (c) professional experience in this type of
   litigation. Applications/nominations should succinctly address each of
   the criteria below as well any other relevant matters. No submissions
   longer than three (3) pages will be considered. The Court will only
   consider attorneys who have filed a civil action in this litigation.
   Objections may be made to the appointment of a proposed
   applicant/nominee. Nevertheless, the Court will entertain only written
   objections to any application/nomination. These must be filed with the
   Clerk in an original and one copy on or before October 17, 2000. The
   objections, if there be any, must be short, yet thorough, and must be
   supported by necessary documentation. As with the
   application/nomination, any objection must be served on all counsel
   appearing on the attached list on the day of filing. 2.
   Responsibilities The PSC will have the following responsibilities: a.
   Discovery (1) Initiate, coordinate, and conduct all pretrial discovery
   on behalf of all Plaintiffs who file civil actions which are
   consolidated with the instant multidistrict litigation known as
   "MDL-1355, In re Propulsid Products Liability Litigation." (2) Develop
   and propose to the Court schedules for the commencement, execution, and
   completion of all discovery 6 on behalf of all Plaintiffs. (3) Cause to
   be issued in the name of all Plaintiffs the necessary discovery
   requests, motions, and subpoenas pertaining to any witnesses and
   documents needed to properly prepare for the pretrial of relevant
   issues found in the pleadings of this litigation. Similar requests,
   notices, and subpoenas may be caused to be issued by the PSC upon
   written request by an individual attorney in order to assist him/her in
   the preparation of the pretrial stages of his/her client's particular
   claims. (4) Conduct all discovery in a coordinated and consolidated
   manner on behalf of and for the benefit of all Plaintiffs. With regard
   to depositions, only two members of the PSC, or counsel duly authorized
   by them, may question each Deponent, provided that the second
   questioner is not repetitious. No attorney for Plaintiffs may be
   excluded from attending the examination of witnesses and other
   proceedings. Such attorney may suggest questions to be posed to
   Deponents through the designated PSC members provided that such
   questions are not repetitious. b. Hearings and Meetings (1) Call
   meetings of counsel for Plaintiffs for any appropriate 7 purpose,
   including coordinated responses to questions of other parties or of the
   Court. Initiate proposals, suggestions, schedules, or joint briefs, and
   for any other appropriate matter(s) pertaining to pretrial proceedings.
   (2) Examine witnesses and introduce evidence at hearings on behalf of
   Plaintiffs. (3) Act as spokesperson for all plaintiffs at pretrial
   proceedings and in response to any inquiries by the Court, subject of
   course to the right of any Plaintiff's counsel to present non-
   repetitive individual or different positions. c. Miscellaneous (1)
   Submit and argue any verbal or written motions presented to the Court
   or Magistrate on behalf of the PSC as well as oppose when necessary any
   motions submitted by the Defendants or other parties which involve
   matters within the sphere of the responsibilities of the PSC. (2)
   Negotiate and enter into stipulations with Defendants regarding this
   litigation. All stipulations entered into by the PSC, except for
   strictly administrative details such as scheduling, must be submitted
   for Court approval and will not be binding until the Court has ratified
   the stipulation. Any attorney not in agreement with a
   non-administrative 8 stipulation shall file with the Court a written
   objection thereto within ten (10) days after he/she knows or should
   have reasonably become aware of the stipulation. Failure to object
   within the term allowed shall be deemed a waiver and the stipulation
   will automatically be binding on that party. (3) Explore, develop, and
   pursue all settlement options pertaining to any claim or portion
   thereof of any case filed in this litigation. (4) Maintain adequate
   files of all pretrial matters and have them available, under reasonable
   terms and conditions, for examination by Plaintiffs or their attorneys.
   (5) Prepare periodic status reports summarizing the PSC's work and
   progress. These reports shall be submitted to the Plaintiffs' Liaison
   Counsel who will promptly distribute copies to the other Plaintiffs'
   attorneys. The periodic status and progress reports must be forwarded
   to all Plaintiffs' attorneys at intervals of no fewer than sixty (60)
   days commencing from October 1, 2000, and more frequently in the event
   of significant matters appropriate for communication. (6) Perform any
   tasks necessary and proper for the PSC to 9 accomplish its
   responsibilities as defined by the Court's orders. (7) Perform such
   other functions as may be expressly authorized by further orders of
   this Court. (8) Reimbursement for costs and/or fees for services will
   be set at a time and in a manner established by the Court after due
   notice to all counsel and after a hearing. C. Defendants Liaison and
   Lead Counsel The Court hereby designates Thomas F. Campion and Charles
   F. Preuss as Defendants' Co-Lead Counsel, and James B. Irwin, V, as
   Liaison Counsel for the pharmaceutical Defendants. Defendants' Liaison
   Counsel will have the responsibilities described in Section V(A) 1 - 7
   of this Order as it pertains to his respective group. VI. PLEADINGS AND
   MOTIONS SCHEDULE A. Certification of Class Action At the appropriate
   time, the parties are to establish a schedule, or request the Court to
   establish a schedule, for the filing of any class certification
   motions. B. Pleadings and Motions Schedule The parties through their
   respective representatives are to confer to propose a schedule for
   filing Rule 12 motions, a Master Complaint, and any motions for summary
   judgment. 10 VII. DISCOVERY  SCHEDULE A. Document Production Schedule
   1. By November 15, 2000, Defendants will produce a copy of the NDA on
   disk. If the NDA is not available on disk by that date, Defendants will
   make a copy of it available for inspection and examination beginning on
   that date. 2. Production of all other documents will occur on a rolling
   basis on dates to be set by the Court. B. Document Production Status
   Report Three days in advance of the next regularly scheduled Status
   Conference, the parties shall submit to the Court a written report on
   the status of the document production, including documents located
   overseas, a projected schedule for completion of discovery, and a
   preliminary proposal scheduling the disclosure of fact witnesses, the
   conduct of fact witness depositions, and any other matters which will
   advance the course of the litigation. VIII. DISCOVERY  DOCUMENT
   REQUESTS AND INTERROGATORIES  GENERAL RULES A. Attempt to Resolve
   Disputes To avoid unnecessary litigation concerning discovery disputes,
   counsel are directed to meet and confer before filing a discovery
   motion. In any motion filed, counsel for the moving party must certify
   that a good faith effort was made to resolve the dispute. Discovery
   motions shall be presented to the Magistrate for resolution. 11 B.
   Preservation of Evidence 1. Preservation Each party and its respective
   officers, agents, servants, employees, subsidiaries and attorneys shall
   preserve all devices, tangible things, documents, and other records.
   Preservation includes the obligation not to alter any such thing as to
   its form, content or manner of filing. Each party shall notify in
   writing (which in this context excludes e-mail) its respective
   officers, agents, servants, employees, subsidiaries and attorneys of
   their obligation to preserve documents in accordance with this Order.
   Before any devices, tangible things, documents, and other records which
   are reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence are destroyed,
   altered, or erased, counsel shall confer to resolve questions as to
   whether the information should be preserved. If counsel are unable to
   agree, any party may apply to the Court for clarification or relief
   from this Order upon reasonable notice. 2. Scope The scope of this
   Order is limited to tangible things and documents containing
   information potentially relevant to the subject matter of this
   litigation. Any tangible thing, document, or information described or
   referred to in any request or response made during this litigation
   shall, from the time of the request or response be treated for purposes
   of this Order as containing potentially relevant information unless and
   until the Court rules such information to be irrelevant. Counsel are
   directed to confer to resolve questions as to what documents are
   outside the scope of this Order or otherwise need not be preserved.
   They should also confer 12 regarding the possibility of an earlier date
   for permissible destruction of particular categories of documents. If
   counsel are unable to agree, any party may apply to the Court for
   clarification of or relief from this Order upon reasonable notice. A
   party failing to object in writing within forty- five (45) days after
   receiving written notice from another party that specified documents
   will be destroyed or otherwise altered pursuant to routine policies and
   programs shall be deemed to have agreed to such destruction. "Document"
   shall mean any writing, drawing, film, videotape, chart, photograph,
   phonograph record, tape record, retrievable data (whether carded,
   taped, coded, electrostatically or electromagnetically recorded, or
   otherwise), or other data compilation from which information can be
   obtained, including but not limited to: notices, memoranda, diaries,
   minutes, purchase records, purchase invoices, market data,
   correspondence, e-mail, computer storage tapes, computer storage cards
   or discs, books, journals, ledgers, statements, reports, invoices,
   bills, vouchers, worksheets, jottings, notes, letters, abstracts,
   audits, charts, checks, diagrams, drafts, recordings, instructions,
   lists, logs, orders, recitals, transcripts, telegram messages,
   telephone bills and logs, resumes, summaries, compilations,
   computations, and other formal and informal writings or tangible
   preservations of information. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
   this Order, as of the date of this Order, persons may generate
   documents in the future without preserving dictation, drafts, interim
   versions, or other temporary compilations of information if such
   documents would not have been preserved in the ordinary course of
   business. C. Confidentiality The parties are to confer to establish
   procedures for managing materials for which they 13 intend to seek
   restrictions on access. D. Inadvertent Disclosures The inadvertent
   production or disclosure of any privileged, confidential or otherwise
   protected document shall not be deemed either a general waiver of
   privilege, confidentiality or work product protection as to the
   document inadvertently produced or disclosed. In the event of
   inadvertent disclosure of any document, promptly upon discovery of such
   inadvertent disclosure the producing party may notify any party
   receiving the document that production was inadvertent, and that the
   producing party intends to move the Court for a protective order with
   respect thereto. Upon receipt of such notification, the receiving party
   shall treat the document as confidential, and shall not disclose the
   document to any other person or use the document for any purpose in
   this litigation. Upon finding that the document is privileged,
   confidential, or otherwise protected and that its production was
   inadvertent, the Court may direct the return of the document and all
   copies thereof to the producing party, preclude the use of the document
   and any information contained therein for any purpose in this
   litigation, and order such other relief as the Court deems necessary
   and appropriate. Before making application to the Court for such
   relief, the producing party shall confer with the receiving party in an
   attempt to resolve informally any dispute regarding the inadvertent
   production. E. Document Depositories Each side may establish a document
   depository. Within twenty (20) days after the initial conference, each
   side shall identify to the other the location and mailing address of
   any depository which it has established. Each side shall bear the cost
   and administer its own depository. All documents disclosed and produced
   pursuant to this Order shall be produced to 14 the appropriate document
   depository. Each side shall develop and submit to the Court a protocol
   for maintaining its depository which shall address the location, filing
   system, access, copying, logs, and inventory records. F. Numbering
   System and Indexing of Documents The parties are to confer to establish
   a system for identifying by a unique number or symbol each document
   produced or referred to during the course of this litigation. G.
   Legibility of Documents Each producing party shall take reasonable
   steps to assure that the copies of the documents it produces are
   legible. To the extent a producing party cannot or does not produce a
   legible copy, it shall make the original document(s) available for
   inspection and copying. H. Authentication The parties are to confer to
   establish procedures for authenticating documents. IX. DISCOVERY
   DISCLOSURES The parties are to confer regarding the production of
   materials contemplated by Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a). The specific items,
   documents, witnesses, and dates not otherwise provided for in this
   Order will be addressed by discovery plans or schedules issued by the
   Court after conferring with counsel. 15 X. DISCOVERY  INTERROGATORIES
   AND DOCUMENT REQUESTS A. Master Set On or before thirty (30) days after
   the Defendants' initial disclosures: 1. Plaintiffs may propound a
   single master set of interrogatories and document requests addressed to
   the Defendants; and 2. The Defendants may propound a single master set
   of interrogatories and document requests to the Plaintiffs. Responses
   and answers shall be served and made within thirty (30) days after
   receipt of the discovery requests. While the parties may be asked to
   identify potential fact witnesses relating to liability, they are not
   to be asked contention interrogatories at this time. For purposes of
   these and any subsequent interrogatories, the limitations on the number
   of interrogatories of Fed. R. Civ. P. 33(a) shall not apply.
   Nevertheless, each party has the right to file a motion for a
   protective order if they believe the master sets of interrogatories and
   requests for production are overly burdensome or duplicative. B.
   Additional Document Requests The parties are to confer, and attempt in
   good faith to agree on any additional document requests not described
   above. In the absence of agreement, no further document requests may be
   propounded to Plaintiffs or Defendants without an order of the Court.
   C. Supplementation of Responses The supplementation of responses
   required by Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(e) shall be made by the parties sixty
   (60) days from the date of their initial disclosures, and every sixty
   (60) days 16 thereafter. D. Document Subpoenas to Non-Parties
   Commencing upon entry of this Order, any party may serve subpoenas on
   non-parties for the production of documents without testimony pursuant
   to Fed. R. Civ. P. 45. E. Plaintiffs' Fact Sheets Plaintiffs and
   Defendants through their respective representatives are to confer
   regarding a suggested Plaintiff Fact Sheet and agree on a proposed
   procedure for obtaining timely responses. XI. DISCOVERY  DOCUMENT
   PRODUCTION PROTOCOLS The parties are to confer to establish guidelines
   for the production of documents in hard copy and in electronic format.
   XII. DISCOVERY  DEPOSITIONS The parties are to confer to suggest
   guidelines for the conduct, noticing and scheduling of depositions.
   Disputes arising during the taking of depositions that cannot be
   resolved by agreement among counsel, and that if not immediately
   resolved will disrupt the discovery schedule significantly or require a
   rescheduling of the deposition, may be presented by telephone to the
   Magistrate. The submission of the issue and the Court's corresponding
   ruling will be recorded as part of the deposition. XIII. DISCOVERY
   ASSERTION OF PRIVILEGE IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
   DOCUMENTS A party who, relying on any privilege or the work product
   doctrine, does not produce all 17 relevant or requested documents in
   response to a request for production of documents or a subpoena, must
   state that it is invoking a privilege. A party who invokes a privilege
   must specify which privilege or doctrine it is invoking and supply to
   the court a privilege log describing the documents to which a privilege
   is asserted. The parties are to confer to determine the format of and
   timing for production of privilege logs. XIV. DISCOVERY  FAILURE TO
   DISCLOSE A party's failure to either produce or identify as withheld
   pursuant to privilege a relevant document may be viewed by the Court as
   an infraction of its orders, justifying appropriate sanctions. Upon
   learning that there are any additional relevant documents which have
   not been produced or identified, a party is under an obligation to
   promptly make known the existence of the documents, including the
   reason for its failure, and submit the documents to the opposing party,
   or if withheld under a claim of privilege or protection, identify the
   documents and the corresponding privilege. XV. "MEET AND CONFER" ISSUES
   The parties are to report to the Court within three (3) days of the
   next Status Conference as to the status of all "meet and confer" issues
   referenced herein. Two(2) days before each status conference the
   parties are to submit to the court a proposed agenda for the
   conference. New Orleans, Louisiana, this 2nd day of October , 2000. /s/
   Eldon E. Fallon ELDON E. FALLON UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE 18
