http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/reo/reobuyfaq.cfm

   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development: Office of Housing
   [Display the text version of this page] [Translate this site]
                                                                 [Search/Index]



     housing
     about housing
     contact us
     keywords
   - single family
     - - audience groups
     - - buying a home
     - - events & training
     - - fha insured loans
     - - common questions
     - - housing counseling
     - - hud homes/ reo
     - - owning a home
     - - reference guide
     - - regulatory programs
     hospitals
     multifamily
     reading room
     online forums
     work online
     hud news
     homes
     communities
     working with hud
     resources
     tools
     webcasts
     mailing lists
     federal clearinghouses
     contact us
     help

   Home > About HUD > Housing > Single Family > HUD homes/ REO

   faqs about buying hud homes



    E-mail this to a friend
    Print version




    1. What is a "HUD Home"?
       Answer:When someone with a HUD insured mortgage can't meet the
       payments, the lender forecloses on the home; HUD pays the lender
       what is owed; and HUD takes ownership of the home. Then we sell it
       at market value as quickly as possible.
    2. Who can buy a HUD home?
       Answer: Anyone! If you have the cash or can qualify for a mortgage,
       you can buy a HUD home.
    3. Are HUD Homes meant for people with low incomes?
       Answer: HUD homes range in price, but most are affordable for low-
       and moderate-income Americans.
    4. Is it true I can get a HUD Home for a dollar?
       Answer: No. HUD sells homes at market value - that means that the
       price is set based on the price of similar homes sold in the area.
    5. If the HUD Home needs repairs, will HUD make them?
       Answer: HUD Homes are sold "as-is," without warranty. That means
       that HUD will not pay to correct any problems. But even if a HUD
       Home needs fixing up - and not all of them do - it can be a real
       bargain! For example, HUD's asking price on the home will reflect
       the fact that the buyer will have to invest money to make
       improvements. HUD might offer special incentives such as an
       allowance to upgrade the property, a moving expense allowance, or a
       bonus for closing the sale early. And keep in mind that on most
       sales, the buyer can request HUD to pay all or a portion of the
       financing and closing costs. Your real estate agent will have
       details.We encourage you to get the home professionally inspected
       before you make an offer. so you will know what repairs you may
       have to make BEFORE you submit your bid.
    6. How do I buy a HUD home?
       Answer: Start by finding a participating real estate agent. Your
       real estate agent must submit your bid for you.
       Normally, HUD Homes are sold in an "Offer Period." At the end of
       the Offer Period, all offers are opened and, basically, the highest
       bid is accepted. If the home isn't sold in the initial Offer
       Period, you can submit a bid. Bids can be submitted any day of the
       week, including weekends and holidays. They will be opened the next
       business day. If your bid is acceptable to HUD, your real estate
       agent will be notified, usually within 48 hours.
    7. If my bid is accepted, then what happens?
       Answer: Your real estate agent will help you through the paperwork
       process. You'll be given a settlement date, normally within 30-60
       days, where the transaction will occur. We have an excellent
       booklet to help you understand the settlement process: "Buying Your
       Home - Settlement Costs and Helpful Information
       When you buy a HUD Home, the selling agent's commissions are
       usually paid by HUD. HUD will pay a total sales commission of up to
       6%.
    8. How can I find out what HUD Homes are for sale?
       Answer: Right here! We update our lists of HUD Homes for sale every
       day. If you see one that interests you, contact one of the real
       estate agents in your area who show HUD homes. They can help you
       from there.
    9. How can I get a loan to buy a HUD Home?
       Answer: HUD doesn't make loans directly. But we do have a number of
       mortgage insurance programs that could help you buy a home. You can
       read about those programs here. Then contact a HUD approved lender,
       who will take you through the steps and actually make the loan.
   10. Can I buy a HUD Home as an investment?
       Answer: Most HUD Homes are initially offered on a priority basis to
       owner occupant purchasers (people who are buying the home as their
       primary residence). Following the priority period, unsold
       properties are then available to all buyers, including investors.
   11. Is there anything else I should know about HUD Homes?
       Answer: We encourage every homebuyer and homeowner to be a wise
       consumer, so be sure to read our Consumer Information. Houses built
       before 1978 may have lead based paint, which can cause harm to your
       family; so be sure to read about this hazard and about what you
       would need to do to correct it. Teachers and Law Enforcement
       Officers qualify for 50% discounts in certain situations. Read more
       about it.

   Attention: Nonprofits and Government Agencies!
   HUD has a special sales program under which approved nonprofit
   organizations and government agencies may purchase properties at
   discounted prices for use in local housing or homeless programs. More
   information is available on this program.

   Content updated November 29, 2001   Follow this link to  Back to top
   ----------
   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
   Development
   451 7th Street S.W., Washington, DC 20410
   Telephone: (202) 708-1112   TTY: (202) 708-1455 Home
   | Privacy Statement
