http://www.sc.doe.gov/feature_articles_2001/may/program_summaries/pb.PDF

   Office of Science High Energy Physics
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/henp/henp.html The High Energy Physics
   (HEP) program studies the basic constituents of matter and their
   interactions. In FY 2002, the U.S. High Energy Physics program is being
   realigned to take advantage of unique opportunities that have developed
   in the past year for history-making discoveries. The Opportunity: The
   Large Electron-Positron Collider at CERN in Switzerland was shut down
   in November 2000, leaving behind a tantalizing hint of a Higgs boson
   with a mass that is well within reach of the Tevatron at Fermilab,
   which collides protons and antiprotons. The Higgs boson is believed to
   be the source of mass for all elementary particles, and its discovery
   would be a profound advance in physics. The Large Hadron Collider (LHC)
   now being constructed at CERN will be a strong contender to find the
   Higgs, and American physicists will participate in Simulation of a
   Higgs boson event as it that research; but it cannot begin an active
   physics might appear in CDF program before the spring of 2006. Thus the
   Tevatron will have an opportunity to make this important discovery
   before the LHC can get fully underway. This collider with its two
   detectors have just finished major upgrades and began operating in
   March 2001 with higher energy and data-taking capability than ever.
   With protons and antiprotons colliding head- on at energies of a
   trillion electron volts (1 TeV), the Tevatron will be the world's
   highest energy physics research facility for the next five years. At
   the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC), the B- Factory and its
   BaBar detector will have an opportunity to explain the vast
   preponderance of matter over antimatter in the universe by studying B
   mesons. Electrons and positrons colliding at energies of several
   billion electron volts will allow the study of an asymmetry in the way
   B mesons decay into other particles. The asymmetry is known as
   Charge-Parity (CP) violation and was first discovered in 1964. Still
   not fully understood, CP violation is believed to be at least partly
   responsible for the survival of more matter than antimatter after the
   Big Bang origin of the universe. The question is whether it provides
   the entire explanation or is there some additional, unknown cause.
   Investigating this important asymmetry will also The BaBar detector at
   the B-Factory extend our understanding of elementary particles. April
   2001 Continued High Energy Physics
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/henp/henp.html In early 2001, a very
   precise measurement of the anomalous magnetic moment of the muon was
   reported, the first result from a dedicated experiment at Brookhaven's
   AGS proton accelerator. The measured value differed from theoretical
   predictions. If this early result holds up after more data is analyzed,
   it will indicate that there is new physics to be discovered, beyond our
   current understanding of elementary particles and interactions. A long
   baseline neutrino detection experiment called MINOS is currently being
   assembled at Fermilab, and a dedicated beam of neutrinos is being built
   for it. With this new facility, Fermilab will have the opportunity to
   confirm early indications that the neutrino has a small mass and, if it
   does, to make precise mass measurements. Our current theory assumes
   that neutrinos have no mass at all. Positive results from MINOS would
   require that the theory be modified and would help to explain at least
   part of the dark matter in the universe. The Challenge: In order to
   find the Higgs boson, the Tevatron must run extensively and increase
   its luminosity (which determines the data rate) substantially. This
   requires a program of improvements to be carried out from FY 2002 to
   2005, interleaved with intensive data runs. The Tevatron is expected to
   operate for about 39 weeks in FY 2002 and the luminosity should be
   improved by a factor of ten by 2005. The B-Factory will need a
   progressive series of upgrades in order to be competitive with a
   similar facility now operating in Japan that has three times more
   design luminosity. Improvements to B- Factory luminosity are planned in
   a series of steps to be executed over three years (FY 2002-2004).
   Because of the potential importance of the g-2 experiment, it will need
   more running time in 2002, and the MINOS detector and beam must be
   completed. FY 2002 Investment Plan: In FY 2002 the Office of Science
   will focus its efforts primarily on the major opportunities summarized
   above. Funding priorities will go to operation and improvements at the
   Tevatron and the B-Factory as well as to university groups working at
   those facilities. Lower priority will be given to the g-2 experiment,
   the NuMI/MINOS project, and the remainder of the research program. The
   Benefits: The High Energy Physics program has a chance to make physics
   history with major advances. Discovering the Higgs boson would explain
   how all elementary particles, and hence all forms of matter in the
   universe, acquire mass. Studies of CP violation in B mesons would help
   us understand why our universe is composed almost exclusively of matter
   rather than containing some antimatter. Studies of the neutrino could
   have a substantial impact on our understanding of elementary particles
   and explain part of the mysterious dark matter that makes up most of
   the universe. The unique DOE research facilities and strong research
   program in high energy physics will help the United States to maintain
   its pre-eminent position in this field of knowledge, help to educate
   our brightest young people in science, and transfer to industry the
   useful technologies often developed for research.
   http://hepserve.fnal.gov:8080/doe-hep/home.html April 2001
