http://education.msfc.nasa.gov/who1.html

   Marshall Space Flight Center Education Programs Office Who Are Our Customers?

      It is NASA's policy to involve the educational community in our
      endeavors to inspire American students, create learning opportunities,
      and enlighten inquisitive minds. These efforts are directed toward
      ensuring the continued availability of scientists and engineers
      required to preserve our leadership in aerospace science and
      technology. Our country has a fundamental stake in the educational
      abilities and accomplishments of its youth and in the workforce
      preparedness of its adults.

      In its more than 40 year history, the George C. Marshall Space Flight
      Center (MSFC), as a major research and development center for the
      Nation's civilian aerospace program, has demonstrated a consistent
      committment to education. The Marshall Center has placed a high
      priority on ensuring that everyone at work in our facilities receives
      proper training. The skills of the Center's employees depend on the
      quality of education they receive in elementary and secondary schools
      and colleges and universities. Partnering with education in preparing
      our young people to enter the workforce is essential for success.

   NASA Strategic Enterprises

      NASA's overall program is comprised of five Strategic Enterprises. Each
      Enterprise covers a major area of the Agency's research and development
      efforts. The four Enterprises each maintain a Home Page containing
      information on related programs, educational resources, contacts,
      images, and more.

      Aerospace Technology - The mission of this Enterprise is to pioneer the
      identification, development, verification, transfer, application, and
      commercialization of high-payoff aeronautics and space transportation
      technologies.

      Biological and Physical Research - The mission of this Enterprise is to
      conduct basic and applied rearch to support human exploration of space
      and to take advantage fo the space environment as a laboratory.

      Earth Science - The mission of this Enterprise is to use the unique
      vantagepoint of space to provide information about Earth's environment
      that is obtainable in no other way. In concert with research and
      industry partners, the Enterprise is developing the understanding
      needed to support the complex environmental policy and economic
      investment decisions that lie ahead.

      Human Exploration and Development of Space - The mission of this
      Enterprise is to open the space frontier by exploring, using, and
      enabling the development of space and to expand the human experience
      into the far reaches of space. The enterprise is managed jointly by the
      Office of Space Flight and the Office of Life and Microgravity Sciences
      and Applications.

      Space Science - The mission of this Enterprise is to solve mysteries of
      the universe, explore the solar system, discover planets around other
      stars, search for life beyond Earth from origins to destiny, chart the
      evolution of the universe, and understand its galaxies, stars, planets,
      and life.

      This framework shows the relationship between four general education
      content areas, the NASA Strategic Enterprises and the Education
      Community (NASA's customers).

                  NASA Education Program and Evaluation Framework

                  NASA Education Program and Evaluation Framework
