http://www.arnet.gov/ProfDevelop/

   Spacer Professional Development Return to ARNet Home Page
                                   Spacer

    Link to Notes from the Administrator Link to the Federal Acquisition
       Regulation Link to the Virtual Library Link to Federal Business
                                Opportunities
     Link to Professional Development Link to the discuss proposed rules
                       Link to Committees and Councils

                Government Training and Development Resources
              HUBZone Empowerment Contracting Program (HUBZone)
       The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is responsible for
      regulating and administering the HUBZone Empowerment Contracting
      Program. The agency certifies eligible small business concerns as
     HUBZone firms, maintains the official listing and ensures continued
    eligibility through random examinations, among other methods. The SBA
   has created a web site, the Contracting Officer Resources, dedicated to
    the needs of the Federal contracting community, including a series of
    PowerPoint training presentations that will help contracting officers
     understand the program and incorporate it into a daily routine.  It
        also features search tools to assist procurement officials in
     conducting market research (Contracting Officer's HUBZone Gateway),
   which can also be used as a quick way to confirm the status of a small
   business concern as being HUBZone certified. Another enhancement offers
   contracting officers who prefer one-on-one assistance a listing of the
    SBA's Procurement Center Representatives who can help in a variety of
                        small business circumstances.
                       Naval Postgraduate School (NPS)
    The Department of Systems Managment is the largest of the 15 Academic
    departments and Groups of the Naval Postgraduate School. The Systems
    Management Department offers two degree programs oriented to the DoD
      civilian acquisition workforce. The Master of Science in Contract
      Management (MSCM) and the Master of Science in Program Management
   (MSPM) each are nine quarter programs with eight quarters of coursework
   accomplished via distance learning and a ninth (accelerated) quarter at
                                    NPS.
                    Defense Acquisition University (DAU)
    We are an organization established by Congress in 1990 to consolidate
    and integrate education and training for more than 110,000 people in
      the Defense Acquisition Workforce. Our consortium member schools
    provide more than 85 acquisition courses to entry, intermediate, and
    senior level civilian and uniformed personnel to allow them to attain
      certification in one or more of the 11 defense acquisition career
      fields. Courses are developed and delivered by 12 DoD educational
                   institutions and by contractors to DAU.
                    Air Force Acquisition Training Office
   The Air Force Acquisition Training Office is the Air Force focal point
    responsible for managing the acquisition training management process.
    The acquisition training management process, which is required by the
     Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA), manages all
    aspects of Air Force acquisition training, including working with the
   Defense Acquisition University (DAU), policy making and implementation,
    budget development and management, requirements determination, quota
      allocation, and student selection. Our process goals are to fully
       utilize all allocated quotas, to send only eligible students to
       training, and to provide timely training to all who need it for
                     certification and job performance.
                     Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI)
    Pursuant to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended,
     the Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI) has worked for more than a
   decade to foster and promote Government-wide career management programs
                 for a professional procurement work force.
                Strategic and Tactical Advocates for Results
    The Strategic and Tactical Advocates for Results (STAR) Program is a
       residency graduate level program (spanning two separated 1-week
     sessions) for mid to upper level government managers and executives
     (GS13's, 14's, 15's, and SESers), focusing on Leadership, Congress,
    Security, Technology, and Program and Project Management. STAR is an
   initiative of the Federal IT Workforce Committee of the CIO Council and
                   GSA's Office of Governmentwide Policy.
                  Defense Systems Management College (DSMC)
    The Defense Systems Management College (DSMC) was established in 1971
      under the guidance of The Honorable David S. Packard, then Deputy
     Secretary of Defense, to provide systems acquisition education and
      training for the people responsible for acquiring weapon systems.
   Located at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, the College offers advanced courses
    of study which are designed to prepare selected military officers and
     civilians for responsible positions in program management and other
                      associated acquisition functions.
                     Office of Training Technology (OTT)
     The Chief of Naval Operations' Office of Training Technology (OTT)
    website, the Navy's premier online resource for training technology.
       The OTT SPIDER provides a wide range of information to help you
   analyze, design, develop, procure, and implement training and education
    programs. Content includes topics such as distance learning, modeling
    and simulation, web-based courses, human factors in training systems,
     educational technology and information technology, and research and
                                development.
              Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS)
    The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) was created by
    Congress in 1947 as an independent agency to promote sound and stable
      labor-management relations. FMCS offers services in the following
     areas: Dispute Mediation, Preventive Mediation, Alternative Dispute
     Resolution, Arbitration Services, Labor-Management Grants and FMCS
                           International Services.
                         Professional Organizations
    Return to Top of Document Search Utility Link to the Site Map Link to
               the Evaluation Form E-Mail the Arnet Webmaster
