http://www.njb.uscourts.gov/notice/2001_02_ebn.shtml

   Your browser does not support script

[spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]                   [spacer.gif]
    [Eagle_abc.gif]       United States Bankruptcy Court
                          for the District of New Jersey [usflag.gif]
[stripe3D.gif]
[spacer.gif]

                                 ELECTRONIC BANKRUPTCY NOTICING

             The United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey is
   pleased to announce Phase II of the Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing
   Program. Bankruptcy notices are now delivered overnight to all EBN
   Phase II participants via either fax or e-mail. This new method will
   provide notices days faster than the United States Mail!
   E-Mail Transmittal Method
   In order to access bankruptcy notices transmitted via e-mail, EBN Phase
   II participants must have an e-mail provider that is DSN-compliant --
   i.e., capable of returning to the BNC a Delivery Status Notification
   (DSN). Please Click Here to view a list of DSN-compliant e-mail
   providers.
   Participants must also have a copy of Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in
   their computers. Please click here to obtain a free copy of Adobe
   Acrobat Reader.
   Fax Transmittal Method
   If participants elect to use the fax transmittal method, they will
   receive bankruptcy notices each evening at the first possible time
   after the BNC formats the notice data. A notice or combined fax will
   not exceed 30 pages.
   Please note, if a single notice exceeds 30 pages, it will be mailed,
   not faxed. If a combined fax exceeds 30 pages, the fax will be sent in
   segments of 30 pages.
   Redundancy Mode
   During the first 30 days of EBN service, participants will receive both
   paper notices and e-mail or fax transmittals. The redundancy mode will
   be automatically discontinued at the end of 30 days. At this time,
   notices will be transmitted either via fax or e-mail.
   How Do I Sign Up for EBN Phase II?
   To sign up for Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing, simply click on the link
   below, print the Bankruptcy Noticing Agreement and complete the form
   with the necessary information and signature.
   ELECTRONIC BANKRUPTCY NOTICING AGREEMENT

                 Please mail or fax this completed form to:
                      BAE Systems - Attention BNC Dept.
                          11400 Commerce Park Drive
                              Reston, VA 20191
                             Fax: (703) 758-7370

   Where Can I Learn More About EBN Phase II?
   Click Here to view the Electronic Noticing Implementation Guide.
   Information may also be found at EBN's Website -- www.EBNuscourts.com.
   If you have any questions related to the EBN program, please send an
   e-mail to Nancy Sullivan of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
