http://www.cflhd.gov/projects/wy/beartooth/Newsletter/Newsletter.pdf

   Lakewood, CO 80228 555 Zang Street Ste 259 Central F Federal Highway
   Administration OTHER ACTIVITIES ON THE BEARTOOTH HIGHWAY * October Open
   House P * Environmental Resources * Environmental Review and
   Cooperating Agencies * History and Jurisdiction * P * The P W urpose
   and Need for the P HA In 2000, the FHWA completed a maintenance project
   to provide a driveable surface for 3 to 5 years on segment 4 until a
   decision on the proposed recon- struction project has been made. The
   road's existing alignment, grades, and The BBeartooth HHighway ederal
   Lands Highway Division (HPD roposed P T'SIN width, as well as its
   underlying structural and drainage deficiencies were not roject T N E W
   S L E T T E R September 2000 changed. HIS ublic Meetings I Beginning in
   2001, the FHWA will begin reconstructing the portion of the roject SSUE
   Highway in Montana between the Wyoming state line east of Cooke City
   and Yellowstone National Park. Tentative completion for this project is
   ? October 2004. -16.5) This Newsletter is designed to provide you with
   information about the proposed reconstruction project on a portion of
   the Beartooth Highway in Wyoming. This issue discusses the proposed
   proj- OCTOBER OPEN HOUSE PUBLIC MEETINGS ect, purpose and need for the
   project, history of the On October 2 and 3, the FHWA will host public
   meetings to gather input on highway, environmental issues, and upcoming
   public the proposed alternatives. The meetings will be held in Red
   Lodge, meetings on alternatives. Montana and Cody, Wyoming. FHWA and
   other agencies will be available to answer questions and address your
   comments. THE PROPOSED PROJECT The Beartooth Highway is a
   110.5-kilometer (68.7-mile) route that Red Lodge, Montana Cody, Wyoming
   Monday, October 2 Tuesday, October 3 begins at the northeast entrance
   to Yellowstone National Park and ends 6:00 to 9:00 P.M. 6:00 to 9:00
   P.M. in Red Lodge, Montana. The first 13.5 km (8.4 miles) and the last
   38.1 Rock Creek Resort Holiday Inn, Taggarts Room km (23.7 miles) of
   the route lie within Montana, and the remaining (W. of Red Lodge on
   1701 Sheridan Avenue 55.8 km (34.7 miles) lie within Wyoming. FHWA, in
   cooperation with the Beartooth Highway) the U. S. Forest Service,
   National Park Service, and Wyoming Department of Transportation,
   proposes to reconstruct a portion of the FOR MORE INFORMATION highway
   within Wyoming. Additional information about the proposed project can
   be obtained from sev- Under the proposed action, the FHWA would
   reconstruct a portion of eral sources. FHWA maintains a website for the
   project; the address is- the Beartooth Highway
   http://www.cflhd.gov/projects/wy/beartooth. (U.S. 212) beginning Mark
   Taylor is FHWA's project manager for the project. Rick Cushing is
   directing the 11.4 km (7.1 miles) environmental efforts for FHWA. Mr.
   Taylor can be reached at 303-716-2124 and Mr. east of its junction with
   Cushing at 303-716-2138, or by writing to: WY 296 (Chief Joseph
   Highway) and proceed- ing east and north for FEDERAL HIGHWAY
   ADMINISTRATION 29.9 km (18.6 miles) CFLHD, Environment (Attn HPD-16.5)
   to the Montana/ 555 Zang Street, Suite 259 Wyoming state line.
   Lakewood, CO 80228 This portion of the highway proposed for
   construction is desig- nated segment 4. Looking west at the west summit
   Reconstruction would primarily be along the existing road corridor with
   an improved alignment, grade, and width to appropriate current
   practices. The reconstructed road surface would have a design life of
   20 years, and subgrade structural elements such as culverts and bridges
   would have a design life of 75 years. Area wetland The project would
   include the following actions- ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW AND COOPERATING
   AGENCIES * Widen the highway to accommodate current and projected
   Because the proposed reconstruction of segment 4 will require federal
   vehicular use and necessary maintenance activities. approvals and will
   receive federal funding, the FHWA must comply with * Upgrade existing
   drainage by developing wider ditches and the National Environmental
   Policy Act (NEPA). In accordance with installing drainage structures
   and culverts. NEPA, the FHWA must prepare an Environmental Impact
   Statement (EIS) * Install sub-surface drainage features and subgrade as
   part of its environmental review process. stabilization measures.
   During the environmental review process, the FHWA consults and *
   Replace four existing bridges. coordinates the review with various
   Federal, state, or local agencies tasked * Construct a new road surface
   of crushed aggregate base and with some level of project involvement.
   The interagency team assists asphalt pavement. FHWA in identifying
   significant issues associated with the * Improve adjacent parking areas
   and pullouts. proposed project, developing alternatives, and assessing
   environmental impacts. The interagency team for this project is
   comprised of * Upgrade signs, striping, guardrails, and other
   safety-related representatives from six agencies- features. * Develop
   "borrow areas" or material sources for use in recon- struction and
   possible future maintenance. * FHWA * U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
   Segment 4 proposed for reconstruction * Use National Forest lands for
   storing materials and staging * U.S. Forest Service * Wyoming
   Department of equipment. (Shoshone National Forest) Transportation *
   Use roads outside the project area for transporting materials. * U.S.
   Army Corps of Engineers H * National Park Service ISTORY AND
   JURISDICTION * Use National Forest lands for work crew accommodations
   and (Yellowstone National Park) The Beartooth Highway was built between
   1932 and 1935, primarily as offices near the project site. a Park
   Approach Road. A 1932 Executive Order reserved a 150-meter (500-foot)
   wide strip paralleling the road for park approach road purposes. P E
   URPOSE AND NEED The route primarily serves Montana residents and
   visitors to Yellowstone NVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES FHWA has three primary
   reasons to reconstruct segment 4- National Park. The FHWA began
   environmental studies on the project in 1998 and com- pleted most of
   them in 1999. Information in these studies combined with * Maintain a
   safe roadway between Red Lodge, Montana and the comments from various
   agencies and the public revealed several Yellowstone National Park
   suitable for accommodating In 1968, segment 4 was resurfaced, restored,
   and rehabilitated. Since the resources that the proposed project could
   affect. Some of these environ- projected traffic levels in 2025.
   original construction in the 1930s, segment 4 is the only segment of
   the highway that has not been reconstructed. In 1998, the Department of
   mental resources include wetlands and fens, grizzly bears, visual *
   Provide a roadway that can be reasonably maintained. Interior and
   Related Agencies Appropriation Act authorized the funding resources,
   and recreation. * Respond to the land management goals and objectives
   of the for the rehabilitation of portions of the Beartooth Highway in
   Wyoming. Shoshone National Forest for the Beartooth Scenic Highway.
   With the passage of the Transportation Efficiency Act for the 21st
   Century Wetlands are found throughout the road corridor. Fens are a
   special type later in 1998, reconstruction of segment 4 was identified
   as a high priority of wetland and are afforded special protection. The
   proposed project would address many deficiencies of the road. The
   project and funding became available for reconstruction. roadway is
   about 5.5 meters (18 feet) wide and the four bridges on seg- The
   Beartooth Highway traverses grizzly bear habitat. The Grizzly ment 4
   are only slightly wider. The current width of the road and bridges In
   its current condition, segment 4 is very difficult to maintain.
   Recovery Plan, administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, does
   not accommodate buses, large recreational vehicles, or medium-size
   Consequently, the Wyoming Department of Transportation has not
   prohibits new developed recreation sites within the recovery zone.
   commercial vehicles presently using the road without encroachment into
   endorsed requests to assume jurisdiction or maintenance responsibility
   for the oncoming lane. The bridges within the proposed project are
   narrow, any portion of the highway within Wyoming. To the extent it has
   funding, On June 15, 2000, the Beartooth Highway was formally
   designated an structurally deficient, and do not meet current
   requirements. The current the National Park Service currently maintains
   69.5 kilometers (43.1 miles) All-American Highway in large part due to
   its high scenic quality. The alignment of the highway is irregular and
   has many sharp curves and of the highway from Yellowstone National Park
   to the Montana state line. Highway offers incredible views of the
   surrounding landscape. abrupt transitions. On some road segments, sharp
   curves are intermixed The Forest Service was given short-term
   responsibilities and funding for with sections of straight alignment.
   The superelevation (the cross-slope or snowplowing and other
   maintenance of segment 4. The Forest Service The highway corridor is
   used for both developed and undeveloped bank of the road at curves) is
   excessive in many areas and insufficient in contracts with the National
   Park Service to meet the snowplowing respon- recreation. Campgrounds
   are usually full on peak days, and hikers others. Several
   safety-related deficiencies exist such as lack of shoulders; sibility,
   and with the Federal Highway Administration to perform interim access
   the backcountry and surrounding Wilderness off the highway. narrow
   roadside recovery areas; substandard guardrail; and inadequate pavement
   repairs. signing, pavement striping, signs, and markers.
