http://www.spd.nasa.gov/news/provision_01_02.html

 spd news


         Several of NASA's Commercial Space Centers (CSCs) and Industrial
         Partners are Joining in the Fight Against Terrorism:

         ProVision Technologies
         Commercial Space Center

                                                            For more information
                                                                    email us at:
                                                               spd@msfc.nasa.gov

 ProVision Technologies, a NASA Commerical Space Center, has developed
 an innovative hyperspectral imaging technology that can directly
 support anti-terrorism activities. This low-cost, portable,
 lightweight, and patented sensor can separate the visible and
 near-infrared portions of the electromagnetic spectrum into more than
 1000 spectral components or images. These contiguous images can be
 analyzed individually or as a set to identify a given target. ProVision
 Technologies has trademarked and copyrighted the software, HyperVisual
 Image Analyzer®, which preprocesses the data collected by this sensor.

 HyperVisual Image Analyzer This unique sensor captures reflected energy
 from a target and splits this energy into hundreds of images. These
 images contain information that may be used to identify a wide range of
 terrorist weapons, such as toxins, camouflage, and altered passports.
 The following provides more detail on how this technology can be
 applied in three specific areas.

 Space Surveillance
 Space Product Development recently initiated an effort with ProVision
 Technologies to get a hyperspectral sensor on the International Space
 Station to support commercial Earth observations in areas such as
 mineral exploration and environmental monitoring. Recently, it was
 realized how this technology could be modified and improved to
 supplement other space intelligence activities. Initial calculations
 show a more sophisticated version of the sensor could be built to
 provide a five-meter spatial data of targets on Earth, which would be
 phenomenal hyperspectral data from space. The only crew involvement
 would be to place the sensor in the Window Observational Research
 Facility (WORF) on the ISS and issue a command to the sensor for
 capture and pre-processing of the desired image.

 Altered Documents
 Terrorists are often engaged in generating counterfeit money and fake
 passports and other activities involving inks on paper. ProVision
 Technologies successfully conducted a pilot study with its patented
 hyperspectral sensor. Experts showed the ability to identify the
 difference between the inks on authentic documents and the inks on the
 forged versions. This technology, which is non-destructive to the
 documents being analyzed, could help authorities identify counterfeit
 money, fake passports, and other altered documents being used by
 terrorists.

 Use of hyperspectral sensor demonstrated by showing that counterfeit
 currency has higher reflectivity than real currency

 Food Safety
 Sometimes food and feed can be contaminated by toxins that are created
 by molds in the food, which can threaten the health of the American
 public. These toxins are known as mycotoxins, which could also threaten
 the competitiveness of the U.S. agriculture in world export markets and
 the economics of the grain producing industry in this country. These
 molds can be found readily in nature, are easily grown, and if added to
 a shipment of grain, they could adversely affect the health of
 thousands of people.
 Some of the most dangerous mycotoxins are aflatoxins. The U.S. Food and
 Drug Administration has set limits of 20 parts-per-billion total
 aflatoxins for interstate commerce of food and feed. New, more rapid
 methods for detecting these molds and associated toxins before they
 enter the food chain and food-processing stream is needed to protect
 the food supply and the American public.

 ProVision Technologies used its hyperspectral sensor to capture images
 of several molds grown by the USDA. Initial results showed that for the
 molds tested, hyperspectral imaging had the ability to identify molds
 grown on agar and corn.

 Once the technology has been further tested, a fiber-optic probe could
 be used to take optical measurements to test entire batches of grain
 for mold and toxins. The probe could then be moved, and another
 measurement could be taken, with no damage or destruction of any of the
 grain, and results would be almost instantaneous. This probe could also
 be used in the field by law enforcement agencies for testing the
 contents of a "questionable" container or package.


  Home | What is Space Product Development | Commercial Space Centers |
              Industry | Research | News | Success Stories

  Microgravity Research Program Office | Marshall Space Flight Center |
                     Other NASA Centers | NASA Home
