http://www.usdoj.gov/immigrationinfo.htm

   c USDOJ Seal U.S. Department of Justice U.S. Department of Justice
       HOMEPAGE    |     CONTACT US    |     PRIVACY NOTICE    |     SITE
   MAP    |     SEARCH

   Immigration Information
   gold bar with blue star
   Both the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Executive
   Office for Immigration Review have Web sites that provide extensive
   immigration information. Among the many items to be found are:

   How do I...?

   Answers to some of the most frequent questions about procedures at the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service (such as How do I become a
   lawful permanent resident?) have been posted on its Web site.

   INS Forms

   The Immigration and Naturalization Service has numerous forms available
   online. These are the forms that you will need in order to apply for an
   INS service, benefit, or permit. Among the many forms on the site are:

     I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification

     I-765, Application for Employment Authorization

     I-485, Application To Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status

     N-400, Application for Naturalization

     I-130, Petition For Alien Relative

     I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker

   INS National Customer Service Center

   The INS provides nationwide assistance by telephone to customers
   calling from within the United States about immigration services and
   benefits. Service is available in English and Spanish.

   The NCSC gives customers throughout the country another way to get
   consistent, accurate information and assistance on immigration services
   and benefits. Find the numbers to call and the hours of operation.

   INS Services and Benefits

   Included among the immigration services the INS oversees are:
   citizenship, asylum, lawful permanent residency, employment
   authorization, refugee status, inter-country adoptions, family and
   employment related immigration, and foreign student authorization.

   Legal Immigration Family Equity Act Information

   Child Citizenship Act

   The Child Citizenship Act (CCA) is effective on February 27, 2001. The
   CCA represents a significant and important change in the nationality
   laws of the United States. Under the new law, most foreign-born
   children adopted by U.S. citizens will automatically acquire U.S.
   citizenship on the date they immigrate to the United States. In the
   past, adoptive parents had to apply for naturalization for their
   foreign-born children, who did not acquire citizenship until the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) approved the application.
   On occasion, delays in the old application process left adopted
   children subject to deportation from the United States. The change made
   by the CCA to automatic acquisition of citizenship by operation of law
   permanently protects the adopted children of U.S. citizens from
   deportation. Information for Adoptive Parents. How to Get a Certificate
   of Citizenship for Your Child.

   INS Field Offices

   Information on location and office hours, and relevant filing
   instruction, is provided for all INS District offices, sub-offices,
   service centers, and Asylum offices.

   INS Community Programs

   INS Regional, District and Sector offices work with community
   organizations and other external groups at local and state levels.
   Community Relations Officers, who serve as INS points of contact for
   community groups and who are responsible for facilitating a working
   relationship between those groups and District/Sector branches, are
   stationed full-time in the following offices:

     - Eastern Regional Office (Burlington, VT); New York District,
     Atlanta District; Miami District; Detroit District;
     - Central Regional Office (Dallas, TX); Chicago District; Houston
     District; San Antonio District;
     - Western Regional Office (Laguna Niguel, CA); San Francisco
     District; Los Angeles District; San Diego District; and San Diego
     Sector.

   The remaining INS Districts and Sectors have designated staff to work
   with community groups on a part-time or as-needed basis.
   For specific contact information, please check your local INS office.

   Immigration Court Information

   List of Immigration Courts, arranged by state. Provides address and
   telephone number.

   Caseload Information. Dial 1-800-898-7180 to find information (in
   English or Spanish) on:
     * Next Hearing Date, Time and Location
     * Elapsed Time and Status of the Clock for Asylum Cases
     * Immigration Judge Decision Information
     * Case Appeal Information, including Appeal Due Date, Brief Due Date,
       Date Forwarded to the Board of Immigration Appeals, and Board of
       Immigration Appeals Decision and Decision Date.

   Recognition and Accreditation Roster

   This list gives the names of accredited organizations and individuals
   who are entitled to represent individuals before the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service, Immigration Courts, and the Board of
   Immigration Appeals.

   For more information about the Department components that are most
   active in this area, consult the Immigration and Naturalization Service
   and Executive Office of Immigration Review web sites.


     Last Updated: 01/09/02


                                               Information for Individuals
                                                     and Communities


                           * Consumer Fraud
                           * Disabilities
                           * Discrimination
                           * Dispute Resolution
                           * Domestic Violence
                           * Elder Justice
                           * Immigration Information
                           * Prison & Parole Information
                           * Safe Communities
                           * Youth Violence
                           * Victims of Crime
