http://unix2.nysed.gov/ill.htm

   New York State Library

                               Interlibrary Loan

   General Public NYS Government Employees NYSILL Request Instructions ILL
   Rush Request Newsletter: New NYSILL Notes

   The New York State Library provides interlibrary loan service to New
   York State government and makes its research resources available to
   other libraries through interlibrary loan (ILL). The New York State
   Library accepts interlibrary loan requests only from libraries.

   Newspapers on film (except for the New York Times) may be borrowed
   through Interlibrary Loan, with a limit of 5 consecutive reels per
   title per request. Newspapers in paper format may be used at the State
   Library if condition permits. Many newspapers in paper format are
   stored in another building. Users must request them one work-day in
   advance of use.

   Call 518/474-5383, FAX 518/474-5786, or e-mail ill@mail.nysed.gov, for
   further information.

General Public

  Within New York State

   All New York State citizens have access to the resources of the State
   Library through their local library or library system. Most books are
   lent at no charge for six weeks. Within copyright restrictions,
   photocopies of up to 33 pages of noncirculating material will be
   supplied to libraries within New York State at no charge. Additional
   pages will be supplied if the ILL request authorizes the charge for
   them.

  Outside New York State

   The New York State Library only accepts interlibrary loan requests from
   libraries. Books and microforms are lent, when possible, for six weeks.
   Within copyright restrictions, photocopies of portions of
   non-circulating materials may be provided for the fees described below.

   As of July 1, 1998, the New York State Library charges for all filled
   out-of-state and foreign interlibrary loan requests.

   The charge is a base fee of $10.00 for all filled ILL requests (loan or
   photocopy) plus any copying charges (i.e. $0.25 per page of photocopy
   from microfilm, microcard or paper, $0.50 per replicated fiche).
   Out-of-state libraries and foreign libraries receive no free photocopy.
   The New York State Library bills for shipping charges for
   out-of-country requests.

   All RUSH requests from out-of-state or foreign libraries will have the
   RUSH surcharges added on to any out-of-state fees. RUSH charges include
   a base charge of $10.00 plus additional copying and transmission
   charges. (See RUSH Request Service and charges below.)

   ILL Requests may be transmitted to the New York State Library via:
     * OCLC system. The New York State Library OCLC code is NYG.
     * DOCLINE. Our LIBID is 12230A and our SERLINE code is NYS.
     * RLG, SHARES program under the code NYAX.
     * ALA printed forms.

New York State Government Employees

   New York State government employees may make work-related interlibrary
   loan requests for materials not owned by the State Library:
     * through State agency libraries
     * by telephone to 518/474-5355 (limited to three requests)
     * by mail
     * through a reference librarian at the State Library

   Copies of the forms and additional information about their use may be
   obtained by calling 518/474-2274.

NYSILL Request Instructions

   These instructions are for Libraries placing NYSILL Requests:
     * DO's and DON'T's
     * Viewing User Records - includes instructions for viewing via WebCat
       and Telnet.

Interlibrary Loan Rush Request Service

   The New York State Library now offers Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Rush
   Request Service. Requests received between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
   Eastern Time will be sent by Ariel, fax, or the requested commercial
   delivery arranged within four hours or less. Requests received between
   1:00 and 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time will be sent out by 10:00 a.m. the next
   work day.

   Costs for Rush Service are as follows:

   Base cost (per citation): $10.00
   Photocopy from paper or microfilm: $ .25 per page
   Photocopy from microfiche: $ .50 per page
   Fax (in addition to photocopy; in continental U.S.): $ 1.00 per page
   Fax (in addition to photocopy; outside continental U.S.): $ 2.00 per
   page
   Ariel (in addition to photocopy): $ .50 per page
   Cover charge for arranging Fedex or comparable shipping

     (note: recipient's account will be charged for actual shipping costs
     in addition to the $5.00 cover charge)

   $ 5.00

   If the New York State Library cannot fill a request as a rush, it will
   inform the requesting library by telephone or fax. The request will be
   treated as a regular request, which is usually filled within three
   working days or less. The $10.00 Rush fee will not be charged.

   For further information about this new service, call the New York State
   Library Interlibrary Loan office at 518/474-5383, FAX 518/474-5786, or
   e-mail ill@mail.nysed.gov

Newsletter: New NYSILL Notes

   The Interlibrary Loan Unit of the New York State Library produces a
   short newsletter, New NYSILL Notes, which covers topics of interest to
   libraries that request materials from the New York State Library. The
   newsletter is also distributed in Word format via the NY-ILL list.

   Home Catalog Search Contact us

   Last updated: September 26, 2000/kd
   Last reviewed: December 29, 1998
   URL: http://www.nysl.nysed.gov/ill.htm
