http://mars3.jpl.nasa.gov/missions/behind/

   [USEMAP:banner.jpg]
   overview science technology missions newsroom classroom events gallery
   fun zone technical area home jpl homepage sitemap search __________

                                  MISSIONS
     __________________________________________________________________


   Summary
   Future
   Present
   Past
   Historical Log.
   Behind the Scenes.
   George Pace
   Sheri Klug
   Ken Edgett
   Feature Article

   Behind the Scenes


               Dr. Ken Edgett
                Dr. Ken Edgett
   Go to Mars Exploration site
     2001 Mars Global Surveyor

      NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft recently caught sight of a dust
      devil dancing across the Martian surface. While it isn't the first of
      the tornado-like weather systems to be imaged, it is yet another
      reminder that Mars is an ever-changing planet.

      Dr. Ken Edgett, a staff scientist at Malin Space Science Systems in San
      Diego, Calif., regularly tracks the dust devils and studies surface
      features. As the operator for the Surveyor's orbiter camera, he is one
      of the first to see fascinating images of the red planet. Dr. Edgett
      recently discussed the importance of dust devils and how they are
      transforming the look of Mars.


   A bright, circular dust devil appears in Melas Chasmas on Mars
      Q: First of all, what is a dust devil?
      A: A dust devil is something that happens both on Earth and on Mars and
      looks somewhat like a mini-tornado. As with tornadoes, dust devils are
      spinning columns of air. Such a column is called a vortex--you might
      see the same effect when you let water run down a bathtub drain. Unlike
      tornadoes, dust devils aren't usually associated with storms.You
      typically see them on dry, sunny summer days when there is anywhere
      from a little to no breeze. You might say they look something like that
      Tazmanian Devil cartoon character he spins 'round and 'round like a
      tornado when he moves.

      A dust devil is actually a visual apparition of a wind vortex. If there
      isn't any dust on the ground, a vortex might still form but no one
      would see it. An example of a vortex without dust might be the scene in
      the film American Beauty where the plastic shopping bag is caught on
      videotape, spinning, spiraling, and dancing in the air. Dust devil
      vortices form when the air is fairly calm and the ground is heated by
      sunlightthis heats the air immediately above ground. Hot air rises up
      the outside of the spinning column, while cooler air descends through
      its middle. If a vortex passes over a dusty surface, it will pick up
      the dust and become a visible feature---a dust devil.

      Q: Are Martian dust devils different than devils on Earth?
      A: The Martian surface is so much more dusty than Earth because here we
      have rain to wash away most of the dust that settles out of the sky,
      but on Mars it doesn't rain. What's neat about the Martian dust devils
      is that they create "art". All that extra dust on the ground means that
      the dust devils leave tracks behind them where they have either picked
      up dust or disturbed the dust lying about on the surface. Most of the
      time these tracks are darker than the surroundings, but sometimes they
      are lighter---it just depends upon whether the surface under the thin
      coating of dust is brighter or darker than the dust itself. In some
      places on Mars, you can get hundreds of crisscrossing dust devil
      tracks, they make a pattern that some say resembles Jackson Pollack
      paintings, others say resembles something their 2-year old might do
      with crayons.


   A streaked Martian surface, possibly caused in part by dust devils

      Q: How do you detect dust devils in the Global Surveyor data?
      A: NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft has the Mars orbiter camera,
      that's actually three-cameras-in-one.

      The two wide-angle cameras are used every day to take a global portrait
      of Mars; we use these to document changes in weather and frost
      patterns. The high-resolution camera, on the other hand, is used to see
      things up close. Its main purpose is to examine the geology and
      geomorphology---the shape of the landforms. Every once in a while,
      however, one of these cameras captures a dust devil in action. The
      high-resolution camera has a very narrow field of view---we can only
      see areas about 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) across, so no one really
      expected we'd ever see a dust devil with this camera. But we have.

      More amazing to us, sometimes the dust devils are so big that you can
      see them with the wide-angle cameras meaning that they are wide enough
      to cover a couple football fields and stand several kilometers high.

      Q: Did you know dust devils existed before Global Surveyor?
      A: Vortices, though no one knows if they had dust in them or not, were
      detected by the meteorology experiments on the two Viking landers in
      the late 1970s. Similar detections occurred during the 1997 Mars
      Pathfinder mission. Some of these went right over the lander without
      causing damage. In the mid-1980s, researchers at Cornell University
      realized that some of the Viking pictures taken from orbit showed dust
      devils---from orbit what you see is usually a round, fuzzy-looking
      cloud that is casting a very long, columnar shadow. Researchers at the
      University of Nevada in Reno have suggested that a few of Mars
      Pathfinder's images also detected dust devils---these appear as actual
      columns of dust moving across the distant landscape.

      When Mars Global Surveyor arrived in late 1997, we started seeing in
      our high-resolution pictures, thin narrow tracks running across the
      surface in some places, especially in the dust-covered areas. We
      suspected these were caused by dust devils, but we had no proof. Later
      on we were able to photograph some of these tracks a second time, and
      lo and behold, they had changed! In some cases there were more tracks,
      in others the original tracks had completely disappeared and were
      replaced by new ones, like some giant Martian Etch-a-sketch. "There
      can't be that many dust devils on Mars, can there?" we wondered. But
      indeed it's true that in some areas out in the deserts of Arizona and
      Nevada, people have recorded hundreds of dust devils over periods of
      only a few weeks. So you can have lots of dust devils, it happens on
      Earth.

      In December of 1999, we got our first really good image that actually
      caught a dust devil in the act of creating one of these dark streaks.
      We were thrilled! After that, we've now seen dozens of cases where dust
      devils are creating streaks--usually dark streaks, but in early April
      2001 we got one in Amazonis Planitia that was making a very faint
      bright streak.


   A dust devil spotted in Amazonis Planitia in April 2001
      Q: Speaking about that dust devil image in Amazonis Planitia, what was
      it like when you first saw that image?
      A: I was tickled. It is always neat to see these dust devils in Global
      Surveyor images. We don't get them every day, so when we spot them they
      always create a buzz among the camera operations staff -- "come see
      what I found!" This particular dust devil from April was exciting
      because it isn't a round, fuzzy cloud. It's a twisted thing that casts
      a dark, bent shadow. Because the camera is looking straight down, the
      shadow is what gives the best impression of the shape of the thing.
      Bent dust devils like this aren't unusual, but neat nonetheless. The
      bending is caused by differences in the wind at different levels in the
      lower Martian atmosphere at the time the dust devil was moving across
      the landscape.

      Q: If that same dust devil appeared on Earth would it do any damage?
      A: This particular dust devil probably wouldn't cause any real damage,
      though in the April image it was clearly picking up dust and creating a
      faint, bright streak. If you went and stood in the way and the dust
      devil came over you, you'd certainly feel it, though. I once drove my
      car into a dust devil down along I-8 near Yuma, Arizona, and it
      definitely jiggled the car around. Do not try this at home! I should
      say, however, that there are documented cases on Earth where dust
      devils, as opposed to tornadoes, have caused some damage, including
      buildings, but usually this is not the case. Some stronger dust devils
      can have winds comparable to small tornadoes.

      Q: Why do you study dust devils?
      A: Dust devils are one of the mechanisms by which dust is moved around
      and redistributed on Mars. They are part of a process that is active
      today, meaning that Mars is not a "dead" planet but has things that are
      happening right now. Dust devils may contribute some of that dust that
      gives the sky its pinkish color. Dust devils also appear to play a role
      in cleaning off dark surfaces. For hundreds of years, people saw in
      telescopes that Mars' surface markings would change over the course of
      a year. In spring, areas would get darker and then get lighter in
      autumn. Once upon a time, it was thought that the "wave of darkening"
      was caused by springtime growth of vegetation. We now know that blowing
      dust is what causes these changes, and with Mars Global Surveyor's
      high-resolution images, it now appears that some areas darken because
      dust devils come along in the spring and summer months to clean dust
      off that accumulated in autumn and winter or, at least, that's what I
      think we're seeing with this camera.


   Mars dust devil and its shadow

      Q: Do you have a favorite dust devil image?
      A: Yes, it was taken October 14, 1999, in the western Daedalia Planum
      region. I just happen to like this one because it is very dramatic,
      though it is not creating a streak on the surface--they don't all make
      streaks. When it first came in, I was really moved by the experience of
      seeing an event that had taken place on Mars just a few hours earlier.

      Q: What is it about dust devils that surprise you?
      A: The fact that we can catch them in action! We see such a limited
      amount of the surface with the high-resolution camera, to date we've
      photographed less than 2 percent of the surface, yet we have seen
      dozens of dust devils and thousands of streaks that we think are
      produced by them. This must mean that dust devils are very common all
      over Mars. It surprises me that we even see their streaks at the top of
      the giant volcano, Olympus Mons, where the atmosphere is so
      thin---about 10 times thinner than at the Mars Pathfinder site--that
      you are almost in a vacuum. When you get lucky and catch a dust devil
      in one of these images, you get an eerie chill down your spine. These
      are dynamic things and you just happened to catch one at the time the
      spacecraft flew overhead. Dust devils give me a chill when I see them
      out in nature on Earth--they often seem to have a mind of their own.
      They might come toward you, then go away from you, as if teasing you.
      To see these on Mars gives me that same sense of being tantalized and
      teased. The dust devil you capture today is something that will not be
      there tomorrow.
   MISSIONS: Summary | Past | Present | Future | Log | Behind the Scenes

   Credits Feedback NASA Privacy Statement
   Overview | Science | Technology | Missions | Newsroom |
   Classroom | Events | Gallery
   JPL Home | Mars Home | Sitemap | Search
   Last Updated: 02 Jul 2001
