http://www.seniors.gov/fedcalc.html


FirstGov for Seniors Logo

                                                  A Portal Site of . . .
                                       Click here to go to the new FirstGov website!

         If you like this site, please [email2.gif] E-mail us to a
friend!


   Federal Employees Retirement Calculator

   Welcome to Access America's web site for federal employees.  With this
   calculation model you can compute an estimate of your CSRS, CSRS Offset
   and FERS retirement benefits -- normal, early or disability -- as well
   as an estimate of your future TSP savings and Social Security benefits.

   This model is designed for almost all federal employees, including
   those in special occupations such as law enforcement, firefighters, air
   traffic controllers, and those under the Congressional retirement
   rules.  Foreign Service is currently excluded from this calculator.

   You may also compute a comparison of CSRS and FERS benefits.  Many
   employees don't know that when a CSRS (or CSRS Offset) employee leaves
   government and returns there is a 6-month window of the opportunity to
   elect FERS.  For detailed information to assist you in making an
   election decision, visit OPM's FERS Election Opportunities Home Page.

   This model gives a reasonably accurate estimate of your benefits.
   HOWEVER, see below if you have part-time, temporary or military
   service, or took a refund of your retirement contributions that you
   have not repaid.

   Also note that it does not currently compute for new Thrift Savings
   rates (over 5% for CSRS and over 10% for FERS)

   Please have the following information on hand before going to the
   Calculator page:

   [blubul3a.gif] Your Social Security Statement
   [blubul3a.gif] Your Spouse's Social Security Statement
   [blubul3a.gif] Thrift Savings Plan Statement
   [blubul3a.gif] Recent Pay Stub (for the Service Computation Date)


     Click on the Calculator to begin Click on the Calculator to Begin.

   Additional Federal Retirement References

   The links below provide information on the following topics.

   Office of Personnel Management

   [blubul3a.gif] Information on Retirement and other Related Issues

   Social Security Administration

   [blubul3a.gif] Retirement Benefits
   [blubul3a.gif] Social Security: How You Earn Credits
   [blubul3a.gif] How Your Retirement Benefit is Figured
   [blubul3a.gif] Government Pension Offset
   [blubul3a.gif] A Pension from Work Not Covered by Social Security

   Thrift Savings Plan (TSP)

   [blubul3a.gif] Forms, Publications and Information on TSP (To obtain a
   free copy of the Adobe Acrobat Reader, click the Get Acrobat Reader
   icon in the Forms & Publications section of the TSP web site)

   Caveats:
   Extra care must be taken when entering data for part-time employment,
   especially with regard to the high-three. These calculations are
   difficult, and the instructions for them will be improved in the near
   future. Until then, please contact your personnel office for an
   accurate estimate of your high-three.

   The calculator asks for a service computation date (SCD).  Many
   agencies post a date on leave slips that corresponds to the SCD (for
   tracking vacation and leave time), but this may not be true for
   everyone, especially if you have temporary or military service, or took
   a refund of your retirement contributions that you have not repaid.
   The estimate you compute may be higher that your actual benefits.  You
   should ask your personnel office to provide the correct SCD for
   retirement purposes.
