http://www.bettis.gov/diversity.html


   An aircraft carrier at dock near dusk and Link to Skip Navigation Links
   Bettis Laboratory
   Home
   Send Us Your Resume
   Career Opportunities
   Campus Interviews
   Summer Intern Program
   What We Do
   Why Choose Bettis
   About our Communities
   Diversity
   Employee Benefits
   FAQs

The Bettis Laboratory is Committed to Valuing Diversity and Maintaining a
Professional Work Environment

DIVERSITY

   To accomplish the mission of the Bettis Laboratory, the talents of a
   diverse workforce must be fully utilized. The challenge to everyone at
   Bettis is to find ways to embrace diversity and capitalize upon the
   strengths and uniqueness of all people to achieve our goals and the
   goals of our Customer. Diversity encompasses all differences in
   individuals and groups, including but moving well beyond race and
   gender. In addition to educational background, skills, job levels and
   experience, it includes differences in thinking and social styles,
   methods and approaches, perceptions and world views.

   The Bettis Plan for Diversity addresses the organizational challenges
   of recruiting, hiring, and retaining employees; enhancing the skills
   and competencies of current employees; and strengthening business,
   customer, and employee relations. The Diversity Plan establishes the
   following goals:

Work Force

   Recruit and retain a talented and diverse work force.

Educational Outreach

   Support scientific, technological, and business leadership through
   educational outreach.

Community Outreach

   Establish a positive presence in the community.

Subcontracting

   Provide opportunities to participate in the performance of Bettis
   procurements to Small, Small Disadvantaged, Women-Owned Small
   Businesses, Hub Zones (Historically Underutilized Businesses), and
   Veteran-Owned Small Businesses consistent with Laboratory practices.

                                Return to Top

   All candidates must be U.S. citizens. Applicants selected will be
   subject to a Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility
   requirements for access to classified matter.

                        An Equal Opportunity Employer
