http://lugar.senate.gov/biolong.htm

   [lugrmsth.gif]

   Contact Dick Lugar
     * Office Locations
     * E-mail

   About Dick Lugar
     * Brief Biography
     * Personal History and Accomplishments

   In the News
     * Press Releases

   Committees
     * Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry
     * Foreign Relations
     * Select Committee on Intelligence

   Constituent Services
     * Casework
     * Special projects
     * Washington Tours
     * Flag Order Info
     * Internship Info
     * Page Program Info
     * Academy Nomination Info

   Constituent Resource Handbooks
     * Intro/list of handbooks
     * Print order forms

   Links
     * Senate Website
     * House Website
     * Congressional Links
     * Executive Branch
     * Access Indiana
     * Indiana State Info Center

   [backbtn.gif]
   Richard Green Lugar -- a fifth generation Hoosier -- is the senior
   United States Senator from Indiana and the longest serving senator in
   Hoosier history.

   The former two-term mayor of Indianapolis has shattered all statewide
   U.S. Senate election records, more than doubling his Democratic
   opponent's vote in 1994, when he was elected to an historic fourth
   term.

   National Leader in
   Agriculture, Nutrition, Forestry
   Known widely as an advocate for U.S. leadership in the world, Lugar
   emphasizes the importance of that leadership to American farmers
   through his role as Republican leader of the Senate Agriculture
   Committee. Lugar also has a personal stake in America's rich
   agriculture tradition. He often worked on his father's Marion County
   farm as a boy, and he continues to actively manage the cultivation of
   its 604-acres of corn, soybeans and trees.

   Lugar has helped shape the future of rural America and agribusiness. In
   1995-96 he led the most sweeping reform of agricultural policy since
   the 1930s. Under the new farm law, most federal subsidies are
   eliminated, freeing farmers to plant crops to meet market demand rather
   than to qualify for government programs. He also has spearheaded
   efforts to help farmers by expanding export markets and by streamlining
   the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

   Former Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole described Lugar's influence on
   American agriculture policy by saying: "When Dick speaks, people listen
   -- and they get results."

   Lugar also led Senate efforts to reform the federal nutrition programs.
   He successfully fought for reforms of the food stamp program and saved
   the federal school lunch program during the 1995-96 welfare reform
   debate.

   Outstanding Legislator
   During his third Senate term, Lugar became the fourth person ever to be
   named "Outstanding Legislator" by the American Political Science
   Association -- a prestigious national award bestowed on Dole, former
   House Speaker Tom Foley, former Arizona Congressman Morris Udall, and
   Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan.

   In addition to noting important bills authored by Lugar, the award
   recognized his ability to extend his influence on policy and public
   opinion beyond traditional limits of parliamentary debate. For example,
   Lugar is credited with helping generate crucial political and public
   support for U.S. military action in the Persian Gulf War by leading the
   national debate with several bold policy statements -- prodding the
   public, Congress and the Bush Administration to action.

   Democracy's Advocate
   During the 99th Congress (1985-86), Lugar served as chairman of the
   Foreign Relations Committee, restoring its power and eminence and
   earning the moniker of "most influential Republican voice in foreign
   policy on Capitol Hill," from New York Times journalist R.W. Apple Jr.
   Lugar led the 1988 Senate ratification of the historic I.N.F. Treaty
   with the Soviet Union, which reduced the number of nuclear weapons for
   the first time in history. He also served as manager of Senate
   ratification of the START I and START II treaties.

   In 1986, Lugar entered the crucible of the Philippines presidential
   election, where he recognized Corazon Aquino as the legitimate winner
   and spotlighted corrupt activities of supporters of former President
   Ferdinand Marcos -- ultimately convincing President Reagan to back
   Aquino. Lugar has continued to speak out against tyrannies of both the
   left and right that suppress the growth of democratic freedoms.

   Intelligence Committee,
   Arms Control
   In 1993, Lugar was selected by Senate leadership to serve on the
   Intelligence Committee. Lugar is also co-chairman of the Senate Arms
   Control Observer Group.

   As a Navy ensign in the late 1950s, Lugar served in the highly
   sensitive position of naval intelligence briefer. He arose at 2:30
   a.m., memorized overnight intelligence reports from around the globe
   and summarized them verbally for Chief of Naval Operations Admiral
   Arleigh Burke, the CIA Director, cabinet secretaries, and members of
   Congress.

   Starting in 1991, Lugar and then-Senate Armed Services Committee
   Chairman, Sam Nunn of Georgia, forged a bipartisan alliance aimed at
   spurring prompt dismantlement and conversion of the post-Cold War
   Soviet nuclear stockpile. Their legislative and diplomatic efforts
   helped accelerate the collection and ongoing destruction of the 30,000
   tactical nuclear weapons scattered across four newly independent
   republics and the removal of warheads from intercontinental strategic
   missiles still aimed at the U.S. "Nunn and Lugar have earned enormous
   credibility by focusing on this problem relentlessly, effectively and
   creatively," wrote national columnist Jim Hoagland.

   In 1996, Lugar and Nunn were joined by Sen. Pete Domenici (R-NM) in
   creating a program that builds on the success of the original
   Nunn-Lugar initiative by focusing on an urgent emerging threat -- new
   and devastating forms of terrorism. The Nunn-Lugar-Domenici law
   accelerates the accounting for and destruction of chemical, biological
   and nuclear material in the former Soviet Union; strengthens
   international border controls to interdict weapons and material
   smuggling; and enables the Department of Defense to train civilian
   medical and law enforcement personnel to identify and react to
   terrorist attacks involving chemical, biological or nuclear weapons.

   In 1997, Lugar was instrumental in securing Senate ratification of the
   Chemical Weapons Convention, a global treaty banning the use,
   production and stockpiling of chemical weapons.

   International Trade Creates Hoosier Jobs
   Lugar also promotes U.S. political, diplomatic and military leadership
   in world affairs as a critical factor in domestic prosperity. Hailing
   from a state that ranks among the top per capita exporters, Lugar
   advocates the expansion of global trade through reduction of tariff and
   non-tariff barriers. He has sponsored trade conferences in Indiana, and
   encourages foreign leaders to buy Indiana products. Lugar also
   sponsored publication of a book, Indiana: Crossroads for World Trade,
   to advance the state's economic development.

   The Senator's first book, Letters to the Next President, was published
   in 1988 by Simon & Schuster. It is a collection of nine letters of
   advice to the President on foreign policy. The Indianapolis Star stated
   that Lugar "prescribes how men can achieve power and wield it civilly
   to include and accommodate many points of view‹such is the measure of
   strength."

   Progressive Mayor of Major City
   As the former mayor of Indianapolis and president of the National
   League of Cities (1970-71), Lugar is an expert in economic development,
   housing and other urban issues. As the chief executive of his hometown
   from 1968-75, Lugar revolutionized the form and function of the
   nation's 12th largest city by unifying Indianapolis' downtown and urban
   neighborhoods with surrounding suburban communities. The plan, known as
   Unigov, set the city on an envied path of vibrant economic growth,
   civic activism and improved racial relations‹all at a time of decline
   for many other major U.S. cities.

   Excellence in education is a long-standing interest of Lugar, who is a
   Rhodes Scholar. He is also an active trustee of his alma mater, Denison
   University, and vice chairman of the board and former instructor at the
   University of Indianapolis. Lugar established "The Fund for Hoosier
   Excellence," a scholarship program for Indiana's outstanding minority
   students who attend college in the state. He has received numerous
   education-related awards, including 34 honorary university and college
   degrees.

   Lugar is a physical fitness enthusiast who promotes health and
   nutrition programs, especially for children and needy Americans. He is
   one of the best known long-distance runners in Congress, but, as "Roll
   Call" magazine stated: "Lugar is more than fast. He is in remarkable
   overall physical condition, as tough as the limestone for which his
   state is famous." Lugar helped bring the 1987 Pan American Games to
   Indiana, and was honorary chairman of the 1987 World Indoor Track and
   Field Meet, in Indianapolis. He has sponsored an annual health fair and
   fitness festival in Indianapolis since 1979.

   The Fiscal Conservative
   In Congress, Lugar supports the pro-growth policies of lower taxes and
   tight purse strings; he is an advocate of a balanced budget amendment
   and line-item veto. Lugar is known by his colleagues for discipline and
   fiscal prudence, having maintained a 98 percent voting attendance
   record and having voluntarily returned more than $3 million in unspent
   office funds. The savings were achieved through day-to-day frugality
   and by establishing an innovative joint office system in Indiana with
   former Senator Dan Quayle and Senator Dan Coats to more efficiently
   deliver constituent service to Hoosiers.

   The National Taxpayers Union cited Lugar for "courage and leadership"
   in voting to limit the growth of federal spending. He voted with 27
   other senators to curb expanding entitlement expenditures on mandated
   benefits other than social security‹a vote that The Washington Post
   described as "the first major test of support for curtailing programs
   that have been kept off-limits to congressional budget-cutters."

   Republican Presidential Candidate
   In 1995, Senator Lugar launched a bid for the Republican presidential
   nomination. During his campaign, Lugar focused on three key issues:
   prosperity, security and integrity.

   To increase economic growth and prosperity, Lugar advocated abolishing
   the Internal Revenue Service and replacing the income tax system with a
   national retail sales tax on goods and services. Such a change, many
   economists agree, would dramatically increase the level of savings in
   America, which would spur more investment, boost productivity and raise
   wages. Following his presidential campaign, Lugar introduced several
   bills to eliminate or downsize estate and gift taxes so that a lifetime
   of savings and investment could be passed from one generation to the
   next. He also introduced a resolution calling for a national sales tax
   to replace the income tax.

   To promote U.S. leadership in the world, Lugar highlighted threats to
   global peace and stability and outlined a vision for U.S. security
   policy. Specifically, he called for an aggressive effort to reduce the
   danger posed by Cold War era nuclear and chemical weapons. Lugar ran a
   series of campaign television commercials that portrayed a potential
   nuclear terrorist attack in the United States. The campaign received
   the Poly Award for the ad series.

   Lugar also promoted integrity and high moral values in American life.
   Drawing on his experience as a school board member, a mayor of a major
   city during a time of civil unrest in America, and a national leader,
   Lugar emphasized the importance of building relationships -- first
   between family members, then extending that ethos into the community.
   Biographical Chronology
   Dick Lugar was born April 4, 1932, in Indianapolis. An Eagle Scout, he
   graduated first in his class with straight A's, both at Shortridge High
   School and at Denison University, in Ohio. Lugar was co-president of
   the student body at Denison with his future wife, Charlene Smeltzer.
   They married September 8, 1956, and have four sons and seven
   grandchildren.

   Charlene is a former member of the national board of directors of the
   March of Dimes and has established an endowed fund for fighting birth
   defects and infant deaths. The fund includes support for prenatal care
   provided aboard the "Mom-mobile," which tours urban neighborhoods. She
   has said that her goal is "to make Indiana the safest place in the
   world to have a baby."

   Dick Lugar graduated from Denison in 1954, then studied economics,
   politics and philosophy as a Rhodes Scholar at Pembroke College, Oxford
   University. In 1956, he volunteered at the U.S. embassy in London for
   active duty in the Navy, in which he served three years and four
   months. In 1960, Lugar returned from the Pentagon to Indiana to help
   manage his family's farm and food machinery manufacturing business,
   Thomas L. Green & Co., in Indianapolis. Founded by his grandfather,
   this near-west side firm celebrated its 100th anniversary in 1993, with
   the Senator's brother, Tom, still at the helm.

   Dick Lugar succeeded in his first run for public office when, at the
   encouragement of his west side neighbors, he ran for and won a seat on
   the Indianapolis Board of School Commissioners. He worked for voluntary
   desegregation of public schools and promoted the Shortridge Plan, a
   forerunner of the magnet school concept. Lugar then defied odds-makers
   in 1967, winning the first of two mayoral terms.

   In 1976, Dick Lugar won a seat in the U.S. Senate, after an
   unsuccessful bid two years earlier. After his reelection in 1982, he
   was elected to Senate leadership as chairman of the National Republican
   Senatorial Committee, and was a leading candidate for Senate Majority
   Leader in 1985 when the Republican caucus picked him for chairman of
   the Foreign Relations Committee. Lugar was named co-chairman of the
   Arms Control Observer Group in 1985 and served on the Select Committee
   on Intelligence from 1977-84 and from 1993-present. He was a member of
   the Congressional Reform Committee in 1993.

   Lugar also served on the Banking Committee from 1977-82 where he was
   recognized for his leadership on Chrysler and New York City loan
   programs, and urban and housing legislation.
