http://www.albuquerque-santafe.feb.gov/febs.htm

     Home | Federal Executive Boards Background | Mission | Leadership |
                             Calendar of Events
      Combined Federal Campaign | Federal Interagency Training Council

                          Federal Executive Boards

      "Although each executive agency and its field organization have a
       special mission, there are many matters on which the work of the
        departments converge. Among them are management and budgetary
                       procedures, personnel policies,
     recruitment efforts, office information duties, and similar matters.
          There are opportunities to pool experience and resources,
              and to accomplish savings. In substantive programs
               there are also opportunities for a more closely
                  coordinated approach in many activities."
                       President John F. Kennedy, 1961

   Federal Executive Boards (FEBs) were established in 1961 by a
   Presidential Directive to improve coordination among Federal activities
   and programs outside Washington. The need for effective coordination
   among the field activities of Federal departments and agencies was
   then, and is still, very clear. Approximately 84 percent of all Federal
   employees work outside the national capital area. Decisions affecting
   the expenditure of billions of dollars are made in the field. Federal
   programs have their impact largely through the actions of field
   representatives of the departments and agencies. In addition, Federal
   officials outside Washington are the principal contact of the Federal
   Government with the citizens of this country.

   To this end, the FEBs perform highly valuable functions. They provide:
     * A forum for the exchange of information between Washington and the
       field about programs, management strategies, and administrative
       challenges;
     * A point of coordination for the development and operation of
       Federal programs having common characteristics;
     * A means of communication through which Washington can strengthen
       field understanding and support of management initiatives and
       concerns; and
     * Federal representation and involvement within their communities.

   The FEB's implement these functions under the direction of the Office
   of Personnel Management. Examples of their activities are:
     * Presidential initiatives on customer service, career transition,
       and reinventing government;
     * The sharing of technical knowledge and resources in procurement,
       personnel management, information technology, and similar commonly
       beneficial activities;
     * Implementation of the local Combined Federal Campaign;
     * The pooling of resources to provide, as efficiently as possible,
       and at the least possible cost to the taxpayers, common services
       such as training courses, employee assistance programs, child care
       centers, blood donor programs, and savings bond drives
     * Encouragement of employee initiative and better performance through
       special recognition and other incentive programs;
     * Emergency operations, such as under hazardous weather conditions;
       responding to blood donation needs; and communicating related leave
       policies; and
     * Recognition of the service of American veterans and dissemination
       of information relating to programs and benefits available for
       veterans in the Federal service.

   Home | Back to Top
