http://doecollaboratory.pnl.gov/vision.html

   Header graphic, look only. U.S. Department of Energy National
   Collaboratories
   Home | Contacts | Search
   Overview
   History
   Vision
   Research
   Participants
   Success Stories

      The U.S. Department of Energy has a remarkable array of research
      facilities, many of which have no counterpart in the world. These
      state-of-the-art installations are important national resources that
      represent large federal investments in research. Yet, scientists' need
      for physical proximity to both these resources and their colleagues has
      impacted their use of these facilities. Experiments and simulations
      produce prodigious amounts of information, creating problems for
      geographically separated collaborators. Addressing complex,
      multidisciplinary problems requires ever larger and more distributed
      teams.



   Relationship between different resources

   Vision

      The word Collaboratory embraces the state where computing and
      communications technologies have rendered separations in time and
      distance meaningless to the collective pursuit of knowledge. Research
      teams form just-in-time and members share their instruments, data,
      software, publications, and expertise in an electronic space that is as
      accessible and usable as laboratories and offices down the hall.
      Collaboratories can improve our efficiency and effectiveness, our
      response to rapid change, and our ability to handle complex difficult
      problems. Also, collaboratories enable more students to interact with
      researchers, discovering their wonder and excitement about the subject,
      appreciating the role they play in improving our lives, and building
      the next generation of scientists.

   Goals

        * Demonstrate the impact of collaboratories on DOE science and
          engineering.
        * Develop new collaboration technologies and infrastructure.
        * Integrate new and existing collaboration technologies into powerful
          environments.
        * Carry out pilot projects in partnership with DOE science programs
          and industry.
        * Broker community-wide agreement on standards and architecture.

   Bottom line, look only DOE Logo

   The U.S. Department of Energy's
   National Collaboratories program is
   sponsored by the Office of Mathematical,
   Information, and Computational Sciences.

                                            Last Updated: November 3, 2000
                                                        Security & Privacy
                                                        Contact: Webmaster
