http://www.tfhrc.gov/hnr20/bridge/mainbc.htm

   Background

   The majority of the steel bridges in the interstate highway system were
   constructed between 1950 and 1980. Until the mid to late 1970's,
   virtually all steel bridges were protected from corrosion by three to
   five thin coats of lead and chromate containing alkyd paints applied
   directly over millscale adherent to the formed steel. These baseline
   conditions present major materials performance and environmental
   compliance challenges when maintaining steel bridge structures.

   The natural aging of steel bridge structures coupled with harsh
   environments and exposure to roadway deicing chemicals (salts) has
   created a growing corrosion control maintenance burden on the nation's
   bridges. The presence of potentially hazardous materials in existing
   bridge paint has complicated maintenance processes and created dramatic
   cost increases for major and routine level bridge paint maintenance.

   For the past several years, FHWA, Turner-Fairbank Highway Research
   Center (TFHRC) has administered research programs aimed at defining the
   most cost effective means of protecting steel bridge structures with
   coatings. Particular focus was given to this issue in 1987 with the
   establishment of a High Priority National Research Area (HPNRA) for
   bridge coatings. This program has targeted the key issues of coating
   material performance, surface preparation requirements, definition of
   the corrosivity of various environments, environmental compliance and
   impact, and containment and disposal of waste generated during typical
   bridge repainting projects.

   Meet the Bridge Coatings Team
   Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center

   Bridge Coating Technology.
   More about Bridge Coatings Technology Research...

   Contract Research Studies

   Epoxy Mastic Bridge Coatings

   FHWA Field Manual for Bridge Painting Inspection (FHWA-RD-98-084)

   Metallizing: The Illinois Experience

   Metallized Steel Bridge Coatings

   Model Site-Specific Worker Training/Orientation Program: Bridge Lead
   Removal and General Site Safety (FHWA-RD-98-179)

   Overcoating (Maintenance Painting)

   Personnel Protection During Bridge Paint Removal

   Safety and Health on Bridge Repair, Renovation, and Demolition Projects
   (FHWA-RD-98-180)

   Zinc-Rich Bridge Coatings

      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Privacy Notice | Feedback|
                              Site Map | Search
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT
