http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/np/formingpartnerships/FormingPartnerships.pdf

   United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service
   Office of Technology Transfer Program Aid 1706 Forming Partnerships
   With the Agricultural Research Service ARS Mission Laboratory Visits As
   the principal in-house research arm of the U.S. Department of
   Agriculture, ARS conducts research To acquaint commercial firms with
   its to develop and transfer solutions to agricultural problems of high
   national priority and provides infor- latest research discoveries, ARS
   periodi- mation access and dissemination to-ensure high-quality, safe
   food and other agricultural products, cally holds technology transfer
   meetings assess the nutritional needs of Americans, sustain a
   competitive agricultural economy, enhance the at its laboratories.
   Here, industry repre- natural resource base and the environment, and
   provide economic opportunities for rural citizens, sentatives can meet
   and confer with communities, and society as a whole. individual
   scientists about ongoing research projects. The U.S. Department of
   Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in all its programs and
   activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion,
   age, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, or marital or
   family status. (Not all prohibited bases apply to all programs.)
   Persons with Cover Photo: disabilities who require alternative means
   for communication of program information (Braille, large Patented
   livestock sperm-sorting system print, audiotape, etc.) should contact
   USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 7202600 (voice and TDD). To file a
   complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Office of Civil Rights, Room
   326W, Whitten Issued September 1989 Building, 1400 Independence Avenue,
   SW, Washington, D.C. 202509410 or call (202) 7205964 Slightly revised
   April 1997 (voice and TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and
   employer. Revised September 2001 Mention of trade names and commercial
   products in this publication is solely for the purpose of providing
   specific information and does not imply recommendation or endorsement
   by the U.S. The Agricultural Research Service (ARS) ARS- developed 100-
   has a successful history of partnering with commercial firms to
   transfer percent soy ink the fruits of agricultural research to
   American farmers and consumers. The Federal Technology Transfer Act of
   1986 dramatically changed the way the federal government does business.
   This act allows federal laboratories and industry to form commercial
   partnerships that enhance the development of new technologies and move
   them into the marketplace. ARS is a leader in the federal government in
   transferring and marketing new technologies developed from its research
   and has formed thousands of partnerships using cooperative agreements.
   The Office of Technology Transfer (OTT) facilitates and coordinates
   these partnerships. FanteskTM products from ARS-patented technology
   Cooperative Research and Development Agreements A Cooperative Research
   and Development Agreement (CRADA) is appropriate for commercial firms
   seeking to further develop and commercialize an ARS invention, merge
   ARS technology with their own technology, or jointly discover and
   develop a new technology. CRADAs are unique in providing the coopera-
   tor the right to negotiate an exclusive license to inventions made
   under the agreement and providing extended confidentiality for infor-
   mation generated under the agreement. Under a CRADA, ARS scientists
   collaborate with private firms to help commercialize the technologies
   developed. Adhesive from cornstarch The cooperating firm provides the
   re- sources needed for developing and Benefits of CRADAs to How a Firm
   Can Initiate a CRADA commercializing a new product, process, Commercial
   Firms * Search ARS' on-line databases for informa- or service. The firm
   may provide funds to * Right to negotiate exclusive licenses on tion
   about its research programs (see Addi- cover additional costs to ARS
   for work patented inventions made under an tional Information on
   reverse) done under the agreement, and it may agreement * Contact ARS
   scientists responsible for contribute personnel, equipment, or * Direct
   access to ARS scientific expertise research projects that interest you
   materials. ARS provides research staff, * Potential to commercialize
   new ARS * Develop a brief proposal with the ARS laboratory facilities,
   materials, equipment, technologies. scientist and Technology Transfer
   supplies, and other in-kind contributions. Coordinator (TTC) Both
   parties bring their expertise to the Benefits of CRADAs to ARS * Ensure
   the proposal receives appropriate agreement, and both conduct some *
   Wider opportunities for developing and preliminary review and clearance
   in portion of the work. As with its other transferring technologies
   your firm cooperative agreements, ARS enters into a * Feedback from
   industry on its research * Work with the ARS scientist and TTC to CRADA
   only when the work objective needs develop a statement of work for
   relates to the research unit's mission. * Increased familiarity with
   problems related the agreement to commercializing a product or process.
   * Internally approve the CRADA with its proposed research plan. Other
   Types of Partnerships or all of the funds when the agreement and avoid
   public disclosure. An MTA is takes effect. Reimbursable Agreements also
   used to bring material into ARS from ARS enters into other strategic
   partnerships allow the partner to reimburse ARS as outside parties for
   research purposes. with federal, state, and private organiza- required
   for the research. Confidentiality Generally, an MTA specifies what the
   tions that help deliver new technologies to provisions apply to the
   cooperator's material is and what it can be used for, the public. These
   partnerships are Trust proprietary material, but information restricts
   giving it to a third party without Fund Cooperative Agreements,
   Reimburs- developed by ARS during either agreement permission,
   prohibits commercial use, and able Cooperative Agreements, Memoran- can
   be withheld from public disclosure to specifies its disposition. dums
   of Understanding, Material Transfer protect intellectual property
   rights until a ARS scientists use a Confidentiality Agreements, and
   Confidentiality Agree- patent application is filed. Agreement (CA) with
   someone outside the ments. ARS technology transfer coordina- A
   Memorandum of Understanding is agency when they want to discuss tors
   can assist with these agreements. similar to a Trust Fund Agreement but
   no confidential information or data that may Trust Fund Agreements and
   Reimburs- money changes hands. Other resources, have patent potential.
   CAs are also used able Agreements are similar to CRADAs such as
   personnel, supplies, or equipment, when a company needs to discuss
   confi- but lack the provision for negotiating an may be exchanged.
   dential information with an ARS scientist. exclusive license and
   complete assurances Scientists use Material Transfer Agree- A standard
   CA may be obtained from the of confidentiality. In both agreements, the
   ments (MTAs) when they want to provide technology transfer coordinator
   or the OTT cooperator provides funds to ARS. With material to someone
   outside of ARS, but web site. Trust Fund Agreements, ARS receives some
   want to maintain control over the material ARS research is evident in
   the development or improvement of many products Developing tools to
   protect our natural resources Patent License Program Many important ARS
   discoveries are transferred directly to the public, without
   intellectual property protection. Some ARS inventions require
   significant financial investments and resources from the private sector
   before the public can benefit from a new, improved product or service.
   To provide an incentive for such investments, ARS may patent new
   inventions and transfer technologies to the public through patent
   licenses. The ARS technology licensing program grants licenses to
   qualified businesses and individuals who wish to commercialize ARS
   technologies. Licenses may be exclusive, nonexclusive, or partially
   exclusive, and foreign patent rights are available for licensing in
   some cases. The ARS Office of Technology Transfer administers the
   entire U.S. Department of Agriculture's technology licensing program.
   Near right: Biode- Left: Technologies for Above: gradable, starch-
   improving food safety Lactose-reduced based plastics like those
   identifing products from the microbe ARS technology Campylobacter,
   Middle right: shown here in green Improving peanuts on chicken skin
   Left: ARS is Above: Protecting developing new animal production uses
   for kenaf and health through plants technology Lactose-reduced Right:
   Adding quality products from through biotechnol- ARS technology. ogy
   research How to Apply for a Patent license applications are available
   and financial and resource investments by mail or may be downloaded
   electroni- required for commercialization. Patent License cally from
   the OTT home page. All patent Licensees are required to submit license
   applications should be forwarded periodic progress reports detailing
   the Licensing federally owned inventions is to the technology licensing
   program progress made to commercialize licensed done in accordance with
   federal regula- coordinator. patents. After the first sale of royalty-
   tions (37 CFR 404). A copy of these regula- bearing products, licensees
   are required to tions can be obtained from the technology License
   Provisions submit royalty reports, including infor- licensing program
   coordinator or the OTT Patent licenses granted by USDA are mation on
   quantity of products made, web site. royalty bearing and include
   provisions for used, and sold and the amount of royal- Businesses or
   individuals who want to license execution fees, annual license ties due
   USDA. This information is commercialize an ARS invention must
   maintenance fees, and patent cost reim- confidential and not publicly
   disclosed. submit a patent license application. Infor- bursements.
   License fees and royalty rates mation provided with the application is
   are negotiable. Information submitted by Special Consideration for
   Exclusive used to determine whether the applicant the
   applicantincluding estimates of Licenses has a sufficient plan for
   developing and potential market size, market share, and Exclusive or
   partially exclusive patent marketing the invention, as well as the
   profitabilityis used to help determine licensesincluding licenses that
   are co- financial and technical resources needed to fair and reasonable
   terms. Other factors exclusive (limited number of licensees), carry out
   the plan. Business plans from a are also considered, such as scope of
   the exclusive territory (limited to a specific license applicant are
   confidential. licensed patent, scope of rights granted, country), and
   exclusive field (limited to a specific use)may be granted for non-
   CRADA inventions, but only after public Products made from notice has
   been made. soybeans ARS improved frozen orange juice Successful
   Commercial Partnerships ARS continues to foster relationships with many
   businesses throughout the United States and, in so doing, creates new
   job and economic opportunities. Several ARS technologies have resulted
   from fruitful partnerships or have paved the way for new partnerships.
   Many small businesses have built new industries based on ARS research
   and products. These companies have helped bolster local, state, and
   national economies. One of the most commercially successful inventions
   that led to a new business en- deavor is SuperSlurper, an ARS-patented
   cornstarch absorbent that can hold 2,000 times its weight in water.
   SuperSlurper is in disposable diapers, body powders, batteries,
   filters, and wound dressings. A start-up company made its mark on the
   egg industry thanks to an ARS-patented method to immunize poultry by
   injecting safe vaccines directly into eggs. ARS research on meadowfoam,
   an unusual plant oil, led to a new market in personal care products.
   These are just a few examples of many successful partnerships. Through
   such partner- ships, the ARS Office of Technology Transfer helps
   deliver innovative technologies to a growing world. Right: Products
   made from cornstarch Technology Transfer Athens, GA 306052720 Albany,
   CA 94710 Coordinators Phone: (706) 5463496, Fax: (706) 5463401 Phone:
   (510) 5595641, Fax: (510) 5596091 E-mail: msa-saa-ttc@saa.ars.usda.gov
   E-mail: pwaott@pw.usda.gov Beltsville Area North Atlantic Area Cotton
   Technology Transfer and USDA, Agricultural Research Service USDA,
   Agricultural Research Service Education Coordinator BARC-West, Building
   003, Room 208 600 East Mermaid Lane, Room 1032 USDA, Agricultural
   Research Service Beltsville, MD 207052350 Wyndmoor, PA 190388598 141
   Experiment Station Rd. Phone: (301) 5046421, Fax: (301) 5046001 Phone:
   (215) 2336610, Fax: (215) 2336777 Stoneville, MS 38776 E-Mail:
   battc@ba.ars.usda.gov E-mail: naattc@arserrc.gov Phone: (662) 6865255,
   Fax: (662) 6865372 E-mail: cttec@ars.usda.gov Midwest Area Northern and
   Southern Plains Areas USDA, Agricultural Research Service USDA,
   Agricultural Research Service 2150 Pammel Drive, Room 118 Technology
   Licensing 1201 Oakridge Drive, Suite 150 Ames, IA 50011 Fort Collins,
   CO 805255562 Program Coordinator Phone: (515) 2947762, Fax: (515)
   2948125 Phone: (970) 2295528, Fax: (970) 2295531 E-Mail:
   usdaott@iastate.edu E-mail: npa-spattc@npa.ars.usda.gov USDA,
   Agricultural Research Service 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Room 41158 Mid
   South and South Atlantic Areas Pacific West Area Beltsville, MD
   207055131 USDA, Agricultural Research Service USDA, Agricultural
   Research Service Phone: (301) 5046905, Fax: (301) 5045060 950 College
   Station Road 800 Buchanan Street E-mail: license@ars.usda.gov
   Additional Information ARS National Programs Home Page describes people
   and organizations who can put them into ARS' national programs and peer
   review practical use. For more information, contact: You can learn more
   about ARS research from process. The agency's work falls into three
   major individual scientists, professional society categories: Animal
   Production, Product Value, Technology Transfer Information Center
   meetings and journals, or the resources listed and Safety; Natural
   Resources and Sustainable National Agricultural Library below:
   Agricultural Systems; and Crop Production, Beltsville, MD 207052351
   Product Value, and Safety. Phone: (301) 5046875 Office of Technology
   Transfer Home Page http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov Fax: (301) 5047098
   contains information on cooperative partner- E-mail: ttic@nal.usda.gov
   ships, patent licensing program, recently issued Agricultural Research
   is USDA's science patents, and newly filed patent applications.
   magazine, published monthly by the ARS http://ott.ars.usda.gov
   Information Staff. Articles and photographs are posted monthly on the
   World Wide Web. Agricultural Research Service Home Page is
   http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR the electronic gateway to the principal
   research agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Technology
   Transfer Information Center helps ARS conducts research of national
   scope that convert research inventions into commercial affects the
   daily lives of consumers. products by getting them into the hands of
   http://www.ars.usda.gov Improving cheese and other Far right: Solving
   dairy products problems with biocontrol strategies Adding quality
   through biotechnology research
