http://acweb.fsl.noaa.gov/docs/mamrosh-ams-98/

   For presentation at the AMS Weather and Forecasting Conference, January
                          12-16, 1997, Phoenix, AZ

 THE USE OF HIGH- FREQUENCY ACARS SOUNDINGS IN FORECASTING CONVECTIVE STORMS

                             Richard D. Mamrosh
                 National Weather Service, Chicago, Illinois

   INTRODUCTION

   Many commercial aircraft automatically report wind and temperature data
   that can be extremely useful in weather research and forecasting. This
   data is often referred to as ACARS, which is simply an acronym for the
   communications system that transmits much of the data in the United
   States. ACARS has been used for many years in research and modeling (it
   is currently used in the Rapid Update Cycle), but has only recently
   been made available to National Weather Service meteorologists in
   forecast offices.

   Because ACARS data is often available at places far from radiosonde
   sites, and at asynoptic times, it can be very useful in forecasting
   convective weather and other phenomena. Aircraft near airline "hub"
   airports (such as Chicago O'Hare) sometimes transmit soundings of wind
   and temperature every 15-30 minutes during the busiest times of the
   day. The availability of frequent soundings allows the forecaster to
   monitor the degree of instability and wind shear throughout the day,
   and issue improved forecasts of convective initiation, severity, and
   dissipation.

   Meteorologists at the NWS office in Chicago used ACARS data May 5,1997
   to monitor the destabilization of the atmosphere, and to forecast the
   time of convective initiation and type of severe weather. ACARS and
   surface dewpoint were used early in the morning to forecast the
   convective temperature, which helped forecasters determine when
   surface-based convection was likely to develop. ACARS soundings were
   then used throughout the day to show the lifting and erosion of the low
   level inversion, the destabilization of the atmosphere, and the
   directional and speed shear of the wind. The soundings were also
   transmitted to the Storm Prediction Center in Norman, Oklahoma, who
   found it useful in the decision to issue a Severe Thunderstorm Watch.

   ACARS DATA ACCESS AND QUALITY

   National 3-h plot of ACARS observation points Meteorological data from
   certain commercial jet aircraft is provided by several airlines and
   airfreight companies (United, Northwest, Delta, and UPS), and is
   transmitted by ARINC (Aeronautical Radio Inc.) to the National Centers
   for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), the Forecast Systems Laboratory
   (FSL), and a few other users via ACARS (ARINC Communications,
   Addressing and Reporting System). FSL makes this information available
   to the NWS and certain other users via an Internet web page that allows
   display of wind plots, soundings, and alphanumeric data. This figure
   shows one way that data may be displayed on the FSL ACARS Internet
   page. (Click on any figure in this paper to see a larger-sized
   version.)

   Several studies have compared ACARS with other data sources. Among
   these, Lord, et. al. (1984) compared ACARS flight-level winds with
   radiosonde, cloud-motion and VAS thermally-derived winds. When ACARS
   was compared to radiosondes, root mean square (RMS) deviations were 7.4
   degrees in direction and 5.3 m/s in speed. More recently, Schwartz and
   Benjamin (1995) compared ACARS ascent/descent winds and temperatures
   with radiosondes and found temperature differences were less than 2C on
   94 percent of all occasions, and less than 1C better than 68 percent of
   the time. Wind speed RMS deviations were 4.1m/s while direction RMS
   differences were 35 degrees (mostly due to light and variable wind
   situations).

   The FSL ACARS site has many quality control checks. Data failing any of
   the several tests is color-coded on the various graphic presentations,
   while more specific information is included with the alphanumeric data.
   While much of the quality control function is automated, some manual
   intervention is needed (Moninger 1997, personal communication).

   MAY 5th 1997 CONVECTIVE EVENT

   Surface Isobar plot at 12UTC 5/5/97 A 500mb shortwave trough was moving
   rapidly across Minnesota and western Iowa at 12UTC. While this trough
   was expected to provide favorable dynamics for convective development
   across Illinois, the atmosphere below 700mb was quite dry (dewpoint
   depressions greater than 10C across the entire state). Surface
   temperatures across northern Illinois at 12UTC were near 60F (15C),
   with dewpoints in the middle to upper 40sF (7-8C). A surface trough
   stretched from western lake Superior to central Iowa (Fig. 2), with
   even drier air (dewpoints mostly in the 30s [-1 to 4C] ) upstream.
   Strong warm air advection was producing scattered elevated showers and
   thunderstorms over Michigan and Indiana (these had moved across
   Illinois during the overnight hours). The forecast question of the day
   was whether there would be enough surface heating and mid-level cooling
   to initiate surface-based convection across northern and central
   Illinois. In an effort to better monitor the atmosphere, and make
   improvements to the forecast, ACARS data from aircraft near O'Hare
   airport were requested frequently during the late morning and early
   afternoon hours (about every thirty minutes).

   An ACARS sounding from 1515UTC (below, left) showed the atmosphere to
   be stable from the surface to 900mb. This sounding coupled with a
   surface dewpoint of 50F (10C) resulted in a convective temperature of
   72F (22C). With strong warm air advection occurring, forecasters felt
   this temperature was attainable in the mid-afternoon hours (around
   1900UTC). At 1623UTC another sounding was obtained (below, right).

   Descent sounding, 1515UTC 5/5/97 Ascent sounding, 1623UTC 5/5/97

   This showed that the inversion had lifted, and that surface heating had
   produced a nearly dry-adiabatic layer between the surface and 875mb.
   Even so, there was a sufficient cap to prevent any convective
   initiation.

   Surface temperatures were warming rapidly, however, and it was still
   felt that the convective temperature would be reached between 1800 and
   1900UTC. A nowcast was issued at 1645UTC stating thunderstorms would
   develop by mid-afternoon, some with gusty winds and hail (the cold
   temperatures aloft and 50-60 knot [25-30m/s} winds below 800mb from the
   ACARS soundings were useful in determining the severe weather
   potential).

   Descent sounding 1738UTC 5/5/97 This sounding from 1738UTC (right),
   coupled with the surface temperature and dewpoint of 71F (21.5C) and
   53F (11.5C), respectively, showed that the atmosphere had become
   unstable enough to initiate surface-based convection.

   A Severe Thunderstorm Watch was issued by the Storm Prediction Center
   at 1811UTC. The first radar echoes associated with this event were
   noted about twenty minutes later. The storms produced several reports
   of severe weather (winds of 60 to 70 mph [30 to 35 m/s] and
   golfball-sized [1.75in./4.0cm] hail).

   The ACARS data was a very useful supplement to the usual tools found in
   an NWS office (ADAP, SHARP, WSR-88D, GOES, etc.), for there is no other
   system in place to get very frequent soundings of both wind and
   temperature.

   ACARS data can be extremely useful in many weather situations. The NWS
   Chicago forecast staff has used it over the past several years to
   forecast low-level wind shear, fog, the precipitation type of winter
   storms, and convective storms such as this. Another account of how
   ACARS can be used to monitor the atmosphere in severe weather
   situations is detailed in Mamrosh and Labas (1996).

   Although ACARS data is currently available only from jet aircraft near
   large and medium cities, there is an aggressive effort by the NWS to
   get more ACARS data. It is expected that ACARS data will be available
   from commuter aircraft that fly to small cities sometime in the future.
   In addition, there are a few UPS aircraft with a water vapor sensor.
   Soundings with dewpoints are available from these aircraft. The NWS has
   an agreement with UPS to install this sensor on sixty more aircraft in
   1998 (Fleming 1997, personal communication).

   ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

   The author wishes to thank Dr. Bill Moninger at FSL for his support in
   getting ACARS data to NWS offices in a reliable, user-friendly format.
   Mr. Carl Knable of United Airlines graciously provided ACARS data to
   our office via facsimile for several years until we were able to
   utilize the FSL ACARS page. Information concerning the future of ACARS
   data (especially in regards to water vapor measurements) was provided
   by Dr. Rex Fleming of the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

   REFERENCES

   Lord, R. J., W. P. Menzel, and L. E. Pecht, 1984: ACARS Wind
   Measurements: An Intercomparison with Radiosonde, Cloud Motion, and VAS
   Thermally-Derived Winds. J. Oceanic and Atmos. Tech., 1, 131-137.

   Mamrosh, R. D., and K. M. Labas, 1996: Real-time Monitoring and
   Reconstruction of a Severe Thunderstorm Environment Using Unique Data
   Sets, Central Region Technical Attachment, National Weather Service,
   No. 96-03, May.

   Schwartz, B. E., and S. C. Benjamin, 1995: A Comparison of Temperature
   and Wind Measurements from ACARS-Equipped Aircraft and Rawinsondes.
   Wea. Forecasting, 10, 528-544.

   Corresponding author address:

   Richard Mamrosh
   National Weather Service,
   333 W. University Drive,
   Romeoville, IL 60446
   (815) 834-0600 ext 286
   richard.mamrosh@noaa.gov

                   Last modified: Wed Dec 17 15:07:22 1997
