http://www-stock.fnal.gov/pub/presspass/press_releases/security.html

     press pass
     home about Fermilab contacting Fermilab inquiring minds visiting
     Fermilab education search
     for physicists public events FermiNews Fermilab at work press pass
     help/about the site

   01-27
   September 20, 2001

   For immediate release

   Press Contacts:
   Mike Perricone (630-840-5678)
   Kurt Riesselmann (630-840-5681)

   Fermilab Announces New Security Measures Limiting Public Access

   Batavia, Ill.-Officials at the Department of Energy's Fermi National
   Accelerator Laboratory announced today (September 20) that, in response
   to heightened security concerns at federal facilities following the
   recent terrorist attacks, they would institute security measures
   severely restricting public access to the laboratory.

   Access to the Fermilab site will be limited to Fermilab employees,
   visiting scientists and those with official business at the laboratory.
   Officials said they do not know how long the new security provisions
   will remain in effect.

   Beginning on Friday, September 21, all guests and visitors to the
   Fermilab site will be required to enter Fermilab through the Pine
   Street entrance only. They will be directed to the Lederman Science
   Education Center where they will receive site passes after producing
   government-issued identification such as a driver's license or passport
   and verifying that they have official business at the laboratory.
   Visitors arriving at the Batavia Road or Wilson Street entrances will
   be redirected to Pine Street.

   Also effective on September 21 will be the prohibition of use of the
   Fermilab site for recreational purposes. This means that pedestrians
   and bicyclists, as well as motorists, will be asked for Fermilab
   employee or user identification when entering the site. All automobile,
   pedestrian and bicycle traffic arriving at the site for recreational
   purposes will be turned away.

   School groups escorted by teachers will still be admitted to the
   Fermilab site. Other tours have been canceled, along with visits to the
   Art Gallery.

   "We regret the necessity to close the Fermilab site to our neighbors,"
   said Fermilab Director Michael Witherell. "Fermilab's traditional
   openness to visitors is very important to us and to the community. We
   hope that our neighbors will understand the necessity for these steps,
   and we ask for their patience. At this time, we cannot predict how long
   these measures may be in effect."

   Fermilab is a Department of Energy National Laboratory operated by
   Universities Research Association, Inc.

   More information:
   - Public access to cultural events at Fermilab
   - Background information for concerned neighbors: Safety, Environment
   and Health at Fermilab

   Return to Current Press Releases

                  last modified 11/15/2001   email Fermilab

       [footerbar.gif]
       Security, Privacy, Legal Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
