http://www.chavezday.ca.gov/history.html

                   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
                    Cesar Chavez Day Banner [spacer.gif]

                            Photo of Cesar Chavez

                             GRANTEE INFORMATION

                             HOW TO GET INVOLVED

                             ABOUT CESAR CHAVEZ
                             Quotes by Cesar Chavez
                                 Related Links

                                    HOME

                                 [logo.gif]
                       About Cesar Chavez [spacer.gif]


        Cesar Chavez: A Legacy of Service and Conviction, (1927-1993)
    As described by his family, Cesar Chavez was an ordinary man with an
    extraordinary legacy of great accomplishment and service to humanity.
        Cesar was born March 31, 1927 in Yuma, Arizona on a farm his
   grandfather homesteaded in the 1880s. At age 10, his life as a migrant
     farm worker began when his family lost their land during the Great
     Depression. These were bitterly poor years for the Chavez family as
     they, together with thousands of other displaced families, migrated
       throughout the Southwest to labor in the fields and vineyards.
      Although he possessed a thirst for learning that he would exhibit
    throughout the course of his life, Cesar left school after the eighth
    grade to help support his family. He joined the U.S. Navy in 1945 and
     served in the Western Pacific in the aftermath of World War II. In
       1948, he married Helen Febela, whom he met while working in the
     vineyards of Delano. The Chavez family settled in the East San Jose
       barrio of Sal Si Puedes from which he continued to work in the
         surrounding fields, orchards, and vineyards of the region.
   It was in 1952 that Cesar’s life as a community organizer began. While
   working in the apricot orchards outside San Jose, he became a full-time
    organizer with the Community Service Organization (CSO), a self-help
     group among Mexican-Americans. In this capacity he organized voter
    registration drives, battled racial and economic discrimination, and
     organized CSO chapters across California and Arizona. Following his
     dream to establish an organization dedicated to farm workers, Cesar
       moved his family to Delano, California in 1962 to establish the
                     National Farm Workers Association.
   Over the next thirty-one years, Cesar would forge a legacy of service,
    conviction and principled leadership that serves as a beacon for all
    Americans. As President of the United Farm Workers of America (UFW),
   AFL-CIO, he founded and led the first successful farm workers union in
      U.S. history. Under his stewardship a broad coalition of unions,
    religious groups, students, minorities, and consumers joined together
                          to pursue social justice.
   The late Senator Robert Kennedy called Cesar Chavez, “One of the heroic
   figures of our time.” As a testimony to his lifelong contributions to
      humanity, he received the highest civilian awards from the United
     States and Mexico, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Aguila
                            Azteca respectively.
       This is the legacy that we celebrate and seek to share with our
    children and all Californians through the Cesar Chavez Day of Service
                                and Learning.
                                [spacer.gif]
