http://www.stennis.gov/studentcongress.html

   [studentcongress.gif]

   [USEMAP:studentcongress3.jpg]

   [student2.jpg]

   1994-2001 National Champions                    National Forensic
   League

   Student Congress has been called a realistic approach to the democratic
   idea of cooperative discussion.  The idea on which it is basedthat of
   getting representative student leaders to consider some of the problems
   which actually confront our lawmakersis excellent.  Training of this
   sort is invaluable.  It is, in a sense, a preparation for real life.
   From the National Forensic League Student Congress Manual

   For ten consecutive years, the Stennis Center has sponsored the John C.
   Stennis Student Congress competition as part of the National Forensic
   Leagues National Speech Tournament.  Approximately 400 of the nations
   best high school debaters participate in this mock Congress and compete
   for the honor of being crowned national champion.

   The Stennis Center supports legislative debate because it develops
   leadership skills in young people and introduces them to the value of
   public service.  Organizing information and analyzing competing points
   of view are essential tasks performed by officials at all levels of
   government, such as governors, legislators, mayors and agency
   directors.  By mastering these skills at a young age, participants in
   the Stennis National Student Congress are better prepared for careers
   in public service.

   This competition has carried the work of the Stennis Center nationwide.
   Sites for the Stennis Student Congress have included Arizona,
   California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, North
   Carolina, North Dakota and Oregon.  The 2001 competition was in
   Oklahoma.

   James M. Copeland, national secretary of the Wisconsin-based NFL,
   expressed his gratitude for the Stennis Centers involvement in this
   youth leadership program.  Thanks to the support of the Stennis Center,
   he said, Student Congress has been able to expand its number of
   participants, make innovative program changes, upgrade its awards and
   improve the overall experience for the students.

   SUPER CONGRESS WINNERS

           House of Representatives    Senate
     2001  Michael Simmons, Illinois   John Horgan, New York
     2000  Jeff Hannan, Florida        Austen Irrobali, Texas
     1999  David Bosko, New York       Andrew Hagan, Indiana
     1998  Bradley Cordes, Missouri    Clarence Webster III, Mississippi
     1997  David Applegate, California  Ryan Mulholland, Wyoming
     1996  Adam Zirkin, New York       Veena Iyer, Texas
     1995  Boris Bershteyn, California Emily Monroe, Missouri
     1994  Winthrop Hayes, Texas       Ben Peled, Indiana
     1993  Albert Giang, California    Dan Mangis, Alabama
     1992  Roy Hanks, Oklahoma          Jeff Kulkarni, Indiana
     1991  Carson D. Elrod, Kansas     Anup Jacop, Kansas


                    John C. Stennis Forensics Tournament

    Recognizing the value of high school debate in preparing tomorrows
   leaders, the Stennis Center in 1995 initiated the John C. Stennis
   Forensics Tournament at Mississippi State University.  The unique
   feature of the competition is that it is open only to high school
   students who are novice debaters. "By leveling the playing field, the
   participants are able to build confidence and hone their speaking
   skills before competing against more experienced debaters," said
   tournament organizer Betty Whitlock, debate coach at Clinton (Miss.)
   High School. The tournament is held at the beginning of the school year
   in September and attracts students from Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi
   and Tennessee.  The 2001 competition will be September 28-29 at
   Mississippi State University.

                                                            STENNIS CENTER

                                                         Board of Trustees

                                                                   Mission

                                                                     Staff

                                                                  PROGRAMS

                                                            Civil-Military
                                                                Leadership

                                                        Congress to Campus

                                                          Emerging Leaders

                                                           Stennis Fellows

                                                                   Stennis
                                                          Student Congress

                                                         Southern Women in
                                                            Public Service

                                                           Truman Scholars

                                             USS STENNIS Leadership Awards

                                                           SENATOR STENNIS

                                                  John C Stennis Biography

                                                        The Stennis Legacy

                                                100th Birthday Celebration

                                                                ADDITIONAL
                                                               INFORMATION

                                                          Government Links

                                                     Policy Institutions &
                                                    Public Service Centers

                                                   Public Service Partners

                                                    Public Service Careers
