http://beacon.jpl.nasa.gov/Get/GetArchives.htm

   LightHouse - Back to Home

                            Home Site Map Site Index Contact Us
                            Archives

   Find It/Search
   Get It / Order - Selected
   Books
   Articles/Papers
   Documents
   Literature Searches
   Archives - Selected
   Interlibrary Loan (ILL)
   Subscriptions
   Records
   Full Text E-Resources
   Links
   Help
   Services + About Us
   Quick Picks


Research Requests

   The Archives staff provides a range of research services, including
   assistance with locating historical records and answering questions
   related to JPL's projects and activities. Cataloged records are
   available for research use by JPL and NASA personnel, contractors and
   the general public.

   BEACON-Archives, the searchable on-line catalog, contains bibliographic
   information about processed collections that are available for research
   use. Records are inventoried to the document or file folder level, and
   many folder listings, available through the catalog in PDF format, can
   be viewed and searched using Acrobat Reader software. Some Archives
   holdings, including the History Collection, are currently indexed only
   in hard copy format, but will soon be added to the catalog, as will
   oral history interviews. Contact Archives staff for assistance with
   these materials.

Reproduction Requests

   Photocopy reproductions of paper records and reproductions of JPL
   images in a variety of photographic formats are available. Contact the
   Archives staff for current reproduction fees and method of payment.
   Prepayment is required for all orders.

Secondary Distribution - Document Requests

   Surplus copies of selected JPL Publications, in their original form,
   are available through the Archives at no charge. Other documents are
   preserved on microfilm and may be reproduced for a fee.

   To obtain a document, send your request by regular mail, fax or e-mail.
   JPL Archives and Records Management Facility
   Sherikon Space Systems, Inc.
   145 N. Altadena Drive
   Pasadena, California 91107
   Fax: (626) 449-3950
   E-mail: rmorris@anteon.com

   Provide the document number, title, author and date.

JPL Internal Services

   Appraisal Services

   How to send records to the Archives

                          Updated November 9, 2001


        FIND IT/SEARCH | GET IT/ORDER | FULL TEXT E-RESOURCES | LINKS
        HELP | SERVICES AND ABOUT US | QUICK PICKS
                 HOME | SITE MAP | SITE INDEX | CONTACT US
