http://www.nw.faa.gov/brieflook.htm

                        Regional Office Headquarters

                    Office of the Regional Administrator
                    Executive Staff
                    Public Affairs Office
                    Regional Operations Center
                    Regional Counsel
                    Civil Rights Staff
                    Human Resource Management
                    Logistics Division
                    Information Technology Division
                    Transport Airplane Directorate
                    Flight Standards Division
                    Aerospace Medicine Division
                    Airway Facilities Division
                    Air Traffic Division
                    Airports Division
                    Civil Aviation Security Division
                    Seattle Implementation Center
                    Air Force Liaison Office
                    Army Liaison Office
                    Navy Liaison Office

                                  * * * * *
                    Office of the Regional Administrator
                                  ANM-1/-3

   The Regional Administrator is the senior agency leader in the region
   and is responsible for providing regional cross-functional oversight
   and appraising overall mission accomplishment for the FAA Administrator
   and Management Board. The Regional Administrator provides leadership in
   cross-regional matters, including environmental issues, airport
   development, multi-program projects, etc., and interfaces with
   industry, the public, and various governmental organizations.
   Additional responsibilities include managing the regional programs for
   civil rights, financial services, logistics, information technology,
   operations communication center, and other administrative services. The
   Regional Administrator acts as the regional field commander-in-charge
   during crisis or emergency situations.

                                   * * * *
                               Executive Staff
                                    ANM-4

   The Executive Staff supports the Regional Administrator by serving as
   the primary focal point for internal and external customers.

   This organization provides service across organizational lines,
   including airport improvement, operations, runway safety, and
   facilities and equipment. The Executive Staff also coordinates
   Congressional actions, State Aviation issues, performs budget
   administration, provides external customer support, and serves as the
   focal point for all FOIA requests. In addition, the program manager
   function for the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics resides in this
   office.

   Additional services provided by members of the Executive Staff include:

   Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
   Privacy Act (PA)
   Program Management for Directives, Forms, Archiving Records, and
   Interfunctional Printing
   ANM Today Web-Site Liaison
   Customer Service Support
   Budget Analyst
   Congressional Liaison

                                  * * * * *
                            Public Affairs Office
                                    ANM-5

   FAA has a continuing responsibility to keep the news media informed of
   its programs and activities. A well-informed public enables the agency
   to be more responsive to the needs of aviation.

   The Public Affairs Office is the FAA focal point for all external
   communication with the news media. Public Affairs Specialists issue
   press releases regarding significant national or local issues, conduct
   media interviews, and arrange interviews with FAA officials.

                                  * * * * *
                      Regional Operations Center (ROC)
                                    ANM-6

   The Regional Operations Center (ROC) is the 24-hour command, control,
   and communication center for the Northwest Mountain Region. The
   Operations Officers respond to all aviation-related incidents,
   emergencies, disasters, and other events that may impact the National
   Airspace System or other critical functions of the region.

   The ROC is the clearinghouse for the collection, analysis, and
   dissemination of both sensitive and routine information essential to
   the operation of the region. The Operations Officers provide agency
   management and officials the information necessary to make decisions in
   crisis situations as well as in the conduct of routine business.

   The ROC is the central communications link to all regional facilities,
   FAA headquarters, other FAA regions, other federal agencies, as well as
   state and local agencies, and the aviation community at large.

   The ROC Manager is the focal point for the Regional Emergency
   Preparedness Program and the Seattle Consolidated Office Building
   Emergency Program.

                                  * * * * *
                              Regional Counsel
                                    ANM-7

   The Regional Counsel has overall responsibility for the legal
   activities of the region. This includes the prosecution and appeal of
   enforcement cases generated by the Flight Standards and Civil Aviation
   Security Divisions in the region. The Regional Counsel provides legal
   advice and guidance on matters regarding regulations, procurement, real
   estate, environment, airport grants, airport access, ethics, employment
   law, and airspace matters, and responses to Freedom of Information Act
   (FOIA) requests. The office serves as the legal advocate for FAA
   programs and defends agency programs and decisions when challenged in
   court. The office also serves as legal counsel to the FAA's Transport
   Airplane Directorate.

                                  * * * * *
                             Civil Rights Staff
                                    ANM-9

   The Civil Rights Staff is responsible for all civil rights and equal
   opportunity matters in the region. The staff serves as the region's
   principal advisor to the Regional Administrator and Regional Management
   Team ensuring full and affirmative implementation of internal and
   external civil rights programs. Internal program areas include:
   discrimination complaint process; EEO counselors; Alternative Dispute
   Resolution (ADR); mediators; model work environment; Affirmative
   Employment Program; and special emphasis programs. The external
   programs include: Non-discrimination in FAA assisted programs (Title
   VI); Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program; Americans with
   Disabilities Act (ADA)/Section 504 Compliance; and Environmental
   Justice issues.

                                  * * * * *
                          Human Resource Management
                                   ANM-10

   The Human Resources Division serves as the principal organization
   within the region on all matters pertaining to human resource
   management, which includes employment, position classification, Core
   Compensation, pay policy, employee development, labor and employee
   relations, human resource planning, employee benefits, organizational
   development, and human resource effectiveness.

   The projections concerning staffing needs within the primary
   occupational categories are as follows. For job information on
   immediate vacancies, applicants can call our 24-hour job hotline at
   (425) 227-2014 or visit the nationwide website at http://jobs.faa.gov.

   Air Traffic Control Specialists constitute approximately 49% (or 2,063
   employees) of our total work force. These employees are responsible for
   monitoring the flow of air traffic.

   - Almost 73% of the current controller work force have been hired since
   1981 and most will not be eligible to retire until after 2006.

   - Our attrition rate continues to be very low at 4.7%.

   - The Northwest Mountain Region expects to hire a very limited number
   of positions in the next couple of years. To provide a diverse
   workforce, a variety of recruitment sources are used to fill vacant
   positions. They may include applicants from the OPM-700 list, students
   in the Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI) program, PATCO register
   candidates (this register opened in 1993 and is not expected to
   re-open), applicants with military service who qualify under the
   Veterans Readjustment Appointment (VRA) or under the Military Retired
   Air Traffic Controllers program (over age 31), Department of Defense
   controllers, reinstatement applicants (employees with previous Federal
   service), Internal Placement Program (transfer/reassignment of
   employees within the FAA).

   - Air Traffic - Selection and Training (AT-SAT) testing of those
   interested in applying for controller positions should resume sometime
   in the future at computerized testing locations nationwide. At this
   time there is no projected date to implement the program. Continue to
   check the website for updated information on this program.

   Airway Transportation System Specialists constitute approximately 15%
   (or 656 employees) of our total work force. The majority of these
   employees are responsible for installing, maintaining, and/or repairing
   various radar, navigational aids, automation, environmental, and
   communication systems to facilitate the safe movement of traffic
   throughout the airspace. You must have training and work experience in
   those areas or have completed a 2 or 4-year electronics program at a
   college, university or technical school.

   - We are currently in a hiring freeze and are not accepting new
   applications for this occupation. We do anticipate hiring in September
   and in the year 2001. We do not have information on the exact number of
   positions to be filled. To qualify you must be a U.S. citizen. Drug and
   alcohol testing is required, and you must receive a favorable security
   investigation. Most of the jobs filled will be Airway Transportation
   Systems Specialist and are located at en-route control centers and
   airports. Most require working on rotating shifts. A limited number of
   Electronics Technician jobs, which require at least 80% overnight
   travel, will be filled.

   Aviation Safety Inspectors constitute approximately 9% (368 employees)
   of our total work force and are responsible for ensuring the highest
   possible safety levels in civil aviation maintenance and operations
   activities.

   - Applicants interested in this occupation can obtain more information
   from various vacancy announcements which are option specific and which
   are open continuously to accept applications. The announcements can be
   seen on the website or by calling the job hotline. The register is
   maintained in Oklahoma City.

   Engineers constitute approximately 8% (325 employees) of our total work
   force. Aerospace engineers plan, develop, review and evaluate major
   transport aircraft certification projects and/or continuing aircraft
   airworthiness programs. Civil, electrical, mechanical, and electronics
   engineers plan and install new radar, navigational aids, automation,
   environmental and communications systems. Other civil engineers provide
   guidance to airport authorities in the design of new airports and
   runways.

   - When vacancy announcements are issued for engineering positions, they
   are listed on the website and on the job hotline.

                                  * * * * *
                             Logistics Division
                                   ANM-50

   Acquisition Management: This Branch buys or leases land for air
   navigation sites and provides utilities to the sites. They award and
   administer construction contracts for air navigation facilities. They
   buy equipment, supplies, professional services, and nonprofessional
   services for various facilities. They maintain real property records
   and dispose of real estate when it is no longer required. They
   establish and implement acquisition policies and procedures for the
   region, provide oversight of various purchasing methods, such as,
   credit cards, and field purchase orders. They participate on national
   programs, such as, Acquire, the new automation system, small business
   conferences, asset supply chain management, and policy and evaluation
   teams. The Real Estate Team administers 80 master leases covering 1,500
   sites, manages 150 FAA owned sites, administers 200 utility agreements
   (electricity, natural gas, water, and sewer), provides office space for
   approximately 4,500 regional employees, and have various other
   transactions for navigation facilities, such as, SeaTac International
   Airport, Denver International Airport, Salt Lake City International
   Airport, and Portland International Airport. The Procurement Team
   awards contracts for supplies, equipment, janitorial services, guard
   services, architect & engineering services, energy and environmental
   services, and construction. On average they award over 80 major
   contracts annually worth about $39,000,000.00. They support the small
   business community awarding over 29% of all dollars to small, minority
   owned, and women owned businesses.
   Materiel Management: Develops the regional materiel management policy
   and procedures, and implements the national and regional policy and
   standards for: operation of the supply support system; project materiel
   support system; and personal property management. They are responsible
   for the disposition of over $21 million of excess personal property,
   management of facilities and equipment projects valued at $100 million,
   and combined in-use personal property and rolled up facility equipment
   value having a total facilities investment of $ 1.1 billion.
   Customer Services: Our Office Services section has the most
   face-to-face contact with tenants of the building. It handles issues,
   which have immediate effect on the walk-in requestor. They are as
   follows:
   Transit Benefits - Arranging car and vanpools, bus passes, and payments
   for such.
   Permanent Change of Station (PCS) moves - Covering the relocation
   housing contract arrangements, household goods shipments, and Travel
   Voucher information.
   Travel Cards - Issuance of credit cards and account problems.
   Convenience Checks - Issued to credit cardholders to make small
   purchases (less $2,500), and may only be used in those limited,
   emergency situations for which third party drafts would have been
   appropriately used in the past.
   Mailroom - Receipt, distribution and dispatch of mail, dispatch of
   FedEx packages, control of region wide postage meters.
   Forms & Publications - Ordering, stocking, and issuing literally
   hundreds of forms, notices, orders, etc. on demand.
   Supplies - Ordering, stocking, and issuing common-use office supplies
   to the Direct Reports Offices and offering assistance in supply
   ordering to the Lines of Business offices.
   Copy Center - Funding and contract oversight of the main reproduction
   facility for the building, which produces millions of copies per year.
   In addition this is the vehicle, which supplies the building's paper
   needs for office and desktop copiers and fax machines.
   Vehicles - Oversees the building motorpool and manages over 500
   vehicles region-wide.
   Building Management - Environmental concerns of HVAC, parking, building
   access and employee welfare issues of cafeteria, Fitness Facility, and
   Child Development Center. In addition, space planning services and
   furniture consultation services are available. Further, shipping and
   receiving via the loading dock and warehousing services are provided.

                                  * * * * *
                       Information Technology Division
                                   ANM-60

   The Information Technology (IT) Division supports national and regional
   information systems by providing services which include: Local Area
   Network (LAN) resources and administration; Wide Area Network (WAN)
   design, operations and maintenance; computer training; office
   automation help desk and technical advisory support; systems analysis
   and application development; Web administration; mainframe print
   processing; computer contract services and a video production franchise
   service. We are the technical focal point for regional deployment of
   national cross-organizational administrative systems. We provide
   technical assistance and field perspective on various national system
   development initiatives and coordinate with other lines of business'
   information resource personnel on regional IT issues. The Information
   Technology division has regional program oversight for data network
   security, electronic mail administration, network backbone management,
   and computer contract administration.

                                  * * * * *
                       Transport Airplane Directorate
                                   ANM-100

   The Transport Airplane Directorate has three Aircraft Certification
   Offices located in Renton, Washington; Lakewood, California; and
   Denver, Colorado; and four Manufacturing Inspection District Offices
   located in Renton, Washington; Lakewood and Van Nuys, California; and
   Phoenix, Arizona; and a Certificate Management Office for The Boeing
   Company located in Renton, Washington, with Certificate Management
   Units located in Auburn, Renton, and Everett, Washington; and Long
   Beach, California. The Directorate manages the Aircraft Certification
   Regulatory Program (ACRP) and provides the following services to the
   public:

   · Type Certification Programs: design approval of civil aircraft,
   aircraft engines, propellers, materials, parts, and appliances.
   · Production Certification Programs: approval of civil aeronautical
   production quality assurance systems.
   · Airworthiness Certification Programs: the airworthiness certification
   of complete aircraft; and the airworthiness approval of aircraft
   engines, propellers, and other related aeronautical parts.
   · Transport Standards: development of airworthiness standards and
   guidance material for certification of transport airplanes which
   includes development of Part 25 rule changes, associated advisory
   circulars, petitions for rulemaking, exemptions, special conditions,
   and policy letters.

   There is emphasis on the continuing airworthiness of each of these
   programs, which includes system surveillance and inspection, accident
   and incident investigation, and the issuance of airworthiness
   directives.

   The Transport Airplane Directorate provides the following products to
   the public:

   Design Approvals:

   · Type Certificates
   · Supplemental Type Certificates
   · Design Alteration "Field Approvals"
   · Design Approvals for Technical Standard Order Authorizations
   · Design Approvals for Parts Manufacturer Approvals

   Production Quality Assurance System Approvals:

   · Production Certificates
   · Approved Production Inspection Systems
   · Technical Standard Order Quality Assurance System Approvals
   · Parts Manufacturer Approvals

   Airworthiness Certification:
   (Approval of Aircraft, Aircraft Engines, Propellers, Materials, Parts,
   and
   Appliances)

   · Standard Airworthiness Certificates of Complete Aircraft
   · Special Airworthiness Certificates for Complete Aircraft (Restricted,
   Limited, Provisional, Experimental, and Special Flight Permits)
   · Special Flight Authorizations for Aircraft Registered in Other
   Countries
   · Export Airworthiness Certificates
   · Conformity and Condition Inspections of Prototype Articles for Design
   Approval Testing

   Transport Airplane Directorate Certification Activity FY-99:

   · Type Certificates issued: 70
   · Supplemental Type Certificates issued: 415

                                  * * * * *
                          Flight Standards Division
                                   ANM-200

   The Flight Standards Division's mission is to foster the highest
   possible level of safety with regard to civil aviation maintenance and
   operations activities. Major programs include the Aviation Safety
   Program, Inspection and Surveillance, Compliance and Enforcement
   Investigations, Certification, and Accident and Incident
   Investigations. Through 2002, emphasis areas include the Air
   Transportation Oversight System and the Runway Safety Program. These
   comprise two of the Administrator's top five priority projects in
   fiscal year 2000. Suspected Unapproved Parts and Aging Aircraft
   continue as ongoing emphasis areas. The Flight Standards Division
   provides regional oversight and administrative management and technical
   support to ten field offices located throughout the Northwestern United
   States. Organizationally, the division consists of the Aviation Safety
   Program Manager and two branches-the Resource Management Branch,
   ANM-210, and the Technical Standards Branch, ANM-230. Descriptions of
   each branch's primary functions follow.

   The Resource Management Branch provides administrative management
   (programs, policies, procedures, and systems) in non-technical areas.
   These include budget and financial management, automation, personnel
   administration, labor relations, compensation, program evaluations,
   training and employee development, office services, directives, forms,
   reports and records management, cost reduction, incentive awards, and
   property accountability.

   The Technical Standards Branch provides regional oversight and
   technical expertise for administering aviation maintenance and
   operations programs for aircraft, air carriers, air agencies, and
   airmen. As such, the branch conducts special studies and analyses of
   air operator and air agency performance and the certificate management
   process. The branch also recommends accident prevention initiatives and
   provides comments and recommendations on proposed directives, Advisory
   Circulars, and Notices of Proposed Rulemaking. The branch processes
   congressional inquiries, Freedom of Information Act requests, and
   Consumer Hotline or Public Affairs information requests. Additionally,
   the branch monitors performance of the FAA Flight Program.

   The Aviation Safety Program Staff is responsible for managing the
   safety programs within the geographical boundaries of the region. This
   Program is designed to provide aviation safety awareness and to achieve
   reductions in aircraft accidents and incidents. To support the FAA
   Safer Skies Initiative, many of these safety seminars discuss runway
   safety procedures.

                         Frequently Asked Questions

   Question: What is the difference in the roles of the FAA and the
   National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) regarding aircraft accident
   investigations?

   Answer: The purpose of the NTSB investigation is to determine probable
   cause and to make safety recommendations to the FAA. The FAA
   investigates to record and evaluate facts, prevent similar accidents in
   the future, and take enforcement actions when appropriate.

   Question: How do I report a low flying aircraft?

   Answer: If possible, record the aircraft's registration number. Note
   any descriptive information concerning the aircraft. Contact any FAA
   facility and indicate the reason you are calling. You will be referred
   to an aviation safety inspector. Provide as much information as
   possible to the inspector.

   Question: Who do I contact about consumer complaints, such as poor meal
   service, lost baggage, and flight delays?

   Answer: Submit your written complaint to the consumer affairs
   department of the air carrier or operator involved. If your complaint
   is not satisfactorily resolved, contact the DOT Office of
   Intergovernmental and Consumer Affairs, Air Travel Consumer Complaints
   at (202) 366-2220.

                                  * * * * *
                         Aerospace Medicine Division
                                   ANM-300

   The Aerospace Medicine Division manages the regional aviation medical
   programs under the executive direction of the Federal Air Surgeon. The
   division administers and directs airmen medical certifications,
   occupational health, and Aviation Medical Examiner (AME) programs
   throughout the region. In addition, they are responsible for the
   investigation and evaluation of the human factor aspect of civil
   aircraft accidents as well as conducting and participating in
   educational programs for airmen and agency employees. Our programs
   include:

   - Industry Aviation Drug & Alcohol Abatement Program
   - Air Traffic Controller Health Program
   - Airman Medical Certification Program
   - Aviation Medical Examiner Program
   - Health Awareness Program
   - Internal Drug & Alcohol Program
   - Occupational Health Program
   - Aircraft Accident Investigation Program

                                  * * * * *
                         Airway Facilities Division
                                   ANM-400

   The Airway Facilities Division manages the National Airspace System
   (NAS) infrastructure within Washington, Oregon, Montana, Wyoming,
   Colorado, Idaho and Utah. This includes the responsibility for control,
   operation, evaluation, maintenance, improvement and accounting for all
   equipment, systems and structures owned by, leased by or entrusted to
   the FAA to facilitate the movement of aircraft within the NAS. The
   Division is comprised of three System Management Offices (SMO), two
   Branches and one Staff Office.

   Executive Staff (ANM-410): Provides support in the areas of
   administrative services and awards; employee and labor management
   relations; and internal control and management evaluation.

   Resources Branch (ANM-420): Provides support in the areas of training
   and career development; staffing, compensation, recruitment, and
   position management; budget administration; logistics management;
   organizational planning; performance planning; results management;
   facility information management systems; and NAS support information
   management systems.

   Operations Branch (ANM-470): Provides support in the areas of
   environmental compliance, energy conservation and employee safety;
   facility security; special maintenance projects and facility
   infrastructure projects; operational configuration management;
   operations and maintenance policy and planning; telecommunications
   policy, planning, systems and services; NAS performance information
   systems, metrics, system and service performance, and operations
   analysis and evaluation; Remote Maintenance Monitoring and maintenance
   automation; review of specifications and technical documentation;
   systems integration; risk management; engineering and restoration;
   spectrum management; radio frequency interference resolution; radiation
   hazard and obstruction evaluation; and maintenance of facility roads
   and structures.

   System Management Offices: Each of the three SMO's is responsible for
   the operation, maintenance, restoration and certification of NAS
   services and systems and associated infrastructure facilities within
   their specific geographic assignments. The SMO's are approximately
   aligned with the Air Route Traffic Control Center (ARTCC) boundaries.

   Pacific Northwest SMO (PNW): The PNW SMO is responsible for facilities
   in Washington and Oregon (Seattle ARTCC Airspace).

   Rocky Mountain SMO (RKM): The RKM SMO is responsible for facilities in
   Colorado and a portion of Wyoming. (Denver ARTCC Airspace).

   Salt Lake City SMO (SLC): The SLC SMO is responsible for facilities in
   Montana, Idaho, Utah and a portion of Wyoming (Salt Lake City ARTCC
   Airspace).

                                  * * * * *
                            Air Traffic Division
                                   ANM-500

   The mission of the Air Traffic Division is to provide the safe,
   orderly, and expeditious movement of air traffic through the airspace
   of the region.

   The division is responsible for the management of:
     * 21 Airport Traffic Control Towers (ATCT's)
       23 Contract Towers

   ATCT's handle aircraft taxiing, landing, taking off, and operating in
   close proximity.
     * 7 Automated Flight Service Stations (AFSS's)

   AFSS's provide pilot briefings, inflight communications, and other
   services.
     * 4 Terminal Radar Approach Controls (TRACON's)

   TRACON's handle aircraft operating within approximately 40 miles of the
   primary airport that are arriving, departing, or transitioning to a
   local airport or through the area.
     * 3 Air Route Traffic Control Centers (ARTCC's)

   Arctic's handle aircraft en route from one terminal area to another.

   The Quality Assurance Staff, ANM-505, is primarily responsible for
   preventing accidents, incidents, and operational errors through the
   education of field facility personnel. Quality Assurance is also
   responsible for reviewing all facility responses to evaluations and
   working with the facilities to ensure closure of any items identified
   during Full-Facility Evaluations. They review air traffic services for
   all accidents and incidents in the region, advise the division manager
   whether or not those services met FAA requirements, and act as a focal
   point to ensure any deficiencies discovered are corrected. They are the
   focal point for gathering information on all Operational Errors and
   Deviations and forwarding it to the Division Manager and National
   Headquarters. They also act as the focal point for Freedom of
   Information Act requests pertaining to Air Traffic Information.

   The Requirements Branch, ANM-510, is the focal point for the
   development, coordination, and implementation of facilities and
   equipment requirements in the Northwest Mountain Region. They support
   operational facilities, air traffic-maintained automation software
   systems and implement future systems in regional facilities. The
   Requirements Branch is also responsible for Unsatisfactory Condition
   Reports (UCR's).

   The Airspace Branch, ANM-520, is responsible for obstruction
   evaluation, airport and airspace analysis, special use airspace
   utilization, air traffic environmental reviews, airspace management and
   analysis and aeronautical charting. The branch also works closely with
   the Operations Branch in the development of RNAV routes and approaches.

   The Operations Branch, ANM-530, is the focal point for day to day
   operational issues in the air traffic control system. Examples of these
   are traffic flow management, delay and operational analyses, air
   traffic procedure development and interpretation and operational
   equipment issues.

   The Resource Management Branch, ANM-540, is responsible for reviewing,
   analyzing and developing regional training plans and policies; tracking
   division resources; managing division acquisitions and information
   resource management programs. In addition, it provides both labor
   management and facility management direction/guidance to the Air
   Traffic Division in line with national and regional policies,
   regulations and programs.

                                  * * * * *
                              Airports Division
                                   ANM-600

   A national system of airports is essential to interstate commerce,
   international trade and national defense. Airports are a vital part of
   our basic transportation system--from transporting people to conduct
   business, to joining families or transporting goods "just in time" to
   add value to a world economy. With few exceptions, every citizen in the
   United States is within a 30-minute drive of a public-use airport.

   The Airports organization provides leadership and support to the
   aviation community to plan, develop, and maintain a safe and efficient
   airports system. We provide technical and advisory guidance on airport
   planning and development; we inspect airports to help assure safety of
   airport operations; we are responsible for environmental assessments of
   proposed construction and approval of noise compatibility programs; and
   we manage the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) and the Passenger
   Facility Charge (PFC) Program, which fund many of the needed
   improvements. We also monitor airports to assure protection of the
   federal investment. We work extensively with airport owners, airport
   users, the aviation industry, and state and local governments to
   provide a safe, first-class airport system for the people of the United
   States.

                         Airports Division Services

   Airport Safety
   · Issue operating certificates and establish minimum safety standards
   for airports that serve aircraft carrying more than 30 passengers.
     * · Regularly inspect more than 70 airports in this region, to ensure
       they meet established rules and safety standards.
       · Take appropriate enforcement action if airport operators do not
       comply with federal regulations.
       · Participate in accident investigations, as requested by the
       National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB).
       · Collect and disseminate airport facility data.
       · Provide guidance and support for domestic and international
       safety training.
       · Serve as focal point for airport safety issues, including runway
       incursions caused by vehicles or pedestrians.

   Environmental Compatibility
     * · Evaluate and approve environmental compatibility of proposed
       airport development - environmental impact statement (EIS).
       · Review and approve noise control programs (Part 150) through
       which the airport owner and community determine how to reduce
       incompatible land uses in the vicinity of the airport.
       · Evaluate noise-related restrictions on airport use. Airport
       owners are not permitted to restrict operations by large commercial
       aircraft without FAA approval.

   Protection of the Federal Investment
     * · Help airport owners understand and comply with their airport
       program obligations (i.e., grant assurances, nondiscrimination,
       surplus property, rates and charges, revenue diversion).
       · Review specific airspace proposals to determine their effects on
       airport operations and the public investment in airports.
       · Resolve, to the best of our ability, complaints or alleged
       violations.
       · Investigate and prepare Records of Decision for Federal Aviation
       Regulations (FAR) Part 16, Rules of Practice for Federally Assisted
       Airport Enforcement Proceedings.

   Airport Planning and Capacity
     * · Identify airports and improvements needed to serve the national
       interest.
       · Assist states and metropolitan regions in identifying development
       needed to meet local and state transportation needs (system plans).
       · Assist individual airports with master planning to determine
       development needs.
       · Conduct planning for busy airports and metropolitan areas to
       determine development needed to reduce delays and improve system
       efficiency.
       · Conduct regional-level capital-improvement planning to identify
       and prioritize the most important development.
       · Through preparation of a Regional Airport Plan, apply regional
       and national system objectives to funding programs, which assures
       the most important improvements are supported with federal
       assistance.

   Airport Standards
     * · Publish advisory circulars and guidance material for airport
       design, construction and equipment.
       · Provide technical assistance to FAA customers.
       · Work with the aviation industry to update and revise airport
       standards.
       · Initiate airport research and development activities.
       · Work with consultants to utilize and interpret standards, and
       develop solutions to complex engineering problems.

   Investment Management
     * · AIP - Administer the AIP to provide grants for planning and
       capital improvement projects to airports, metropolitan areas and
       states. Grants are used to improve safety, preserve existing
       facilities, add capacity and bring airports into conformance with
       FAA design standards.
       · PFC - Administer the PFC, through which airport owner/public
       agencies collect up to $4.50 per enplaning passenger, to assure
       that collected fees are invested in airport improvements that will
       achieve program objectives.

                                  * * * * *
                      Civil Aviation Security Division
                                   ANM-700

   The Civil Aviation Security Division, Northwest Mountain Region,
   implements and maintains the U.S. Civil Aviation Security Program
   responsibilities within the States of Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Oregon,
   Utah, Washington, and Wyoming and within the Canadian Provinces of
   Alberta, British Columbia, Northwest Territories, Saskatchewan,
   Manitoba, and Yukon Territory. Within this geographical area, this
   division has the Principal Security Inspector responsibilities for 8
   U.S. and 5 Canadian air carriers, and 1 All Cargo carrier.

   Division program responsibilities include the conduct, management, and
   direction of regional safety programs designed to assure safe air
   transportation of hazardous materials; to prevent hijackings, sabotage,
   and other criminal and terrorists acts against U.S. air carrier
   aircraft, certain public aircraft, foreign air carrier aircraft
   operating to and from the United States; to assist law enforcement in
   the interdiction of importation of dangerous drugs and narcotics by
   aircraft; to enhance air cargo and general aviation security; to
   safeguard FAA and national security interests through effective
   personnel, information, physical, industrial, communications, and
   automated systems security; to conduct investigations in support of the
   FAA's mission; and to assure the highest possible standards of
   integrity and ethical conduct of FAA employees and representatives.

   The Civil Aviation Security Division carries out these program
   responsibilities through the Investigations and Internal Security
   Branch, Aviation Security Branch, and the Dangerous Goods/Cargo
   Security Program located within the division office and field offices
   located in Seattle, Denver, Portland, and Salt Lake City. The current
   staffing of the division is 77 employees.

   Although a considerable amount of the work performed is not measured,
   i.e., providing guidance to air carriers, airports, hazardous materials
   shippers and transporters, and FAA management, the primary functions of
   the division are to inspect [to assure compliance and to detect
   vulnerabilities] and to investigate alleged criminal and civil
   violations of laws, statutes, and regulations. As an example of the
   workload, during FY-99 the employees of the Civil Aviation Security
   Division accomplished:

   Inspections Investigations

   FAA Facility Inspections 117 FAR Enforcement 747
   Airport Inspections 395 Hazardous Materials 111
   Air Carrier Inspections 661 Investigations 211
   Foreign Air Carrier Insp. 63 Drug Investigations 40
   Hazardous Materials Insp. 384 Internal Personnel Security Action 3004

                                  * * * * *
                        Seattle Implementation Center
                                   ANI-800

   The Facilities and Equipment (F&E) Program provides program management,
   control, and planning activities for the Region's F&E funded programs.
   The Seattle Implementation Center is the focal point for facility
   establishment, modernization, and relocation. Each platform performs
   scheduling, design, engineering, construction, equipment installation,
   alignment and commissioning of F&E projects.
   Historically, the F&E Program came under the Establishment Engineering
   Branch within the Airway Facilities Division. However, in mid-1997, the
   Engineering Center was established and the Establishment Engineering
   Branch became the Seattle Implementation Center (IC), ANI-800. The
   Seattle IC will continue to support Airway Facilities.

   The Integration and Support Platform, ANI-820, is responsible for the
   management of programs encompassing the total spectrum of all platforms
   located within the Seattle Implementation Center. These programs
   include the Regional Tracking (RTP), Budget, Administrative functions,
   CAEG/Drafting, Transition and Integration Planning, Customer Service
   Interface, and NISC/TSSC contract support.

   The NAS Implementation Field Offices (NIFO's) are responsible for
   coordinating with field personnel, customers, stakeholders, and
   maintaining an awareness of issues affecting FAA/Airway Facilities
   (AF). The NIFO's are field offices of the Seattle Implementation
   Center, and are located near their customers.

   The Infrastructure Platform, ANI-830, is responsible for providing and
   maintaining the optimum types and quality of electrical power, to
   ensure high facility availability and reliability, and to reduce
   operating costs of all AF facilities. This includes lightning
   protection, grounding and bonding systems, and electrical power
   systems.

   The Terminal Platform, ANI-840, is responsible for the establishment,
   improvement, and sustained support of Airport Traffic Control Tower
   (ATCT) and Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) facilities, and the
   electronic systems housed within them. This includes designing and
   constructing all plants related work associated with these facilities
   such as, mechanical and electrical support systems, environmental
   control systems, security and safety systems, and access facilities.
   Integrating with other platforms and/or performing the electronic
   design and installation of equipment associated with ATCT and TRACON
   facilities, or housed within those facilities. Performing all aspects
   of planning, fiscal and budgetary activity required for program
   support, engineering, scheduling, installation and construction of ATCT
   and TRACON facilities and the equipment housed within them.

   The En Route Platform, ANI-850, is responsible for the establishment,
   improvement, and sustainment of Air Route Traffic Control Center
   (ARTCC) and Automated Flight Service Station (AFSS) facilities and the
   implementation of all en route automation systems. This includes all
   plants related work associated with these facilities such as,
   mechanical and electrical support systems, environmental control
   systems, and security and safety systems. Site preparation,
   installation, testing, integration, and transition of new and upgraded
   automation systems. Performing all planning, scheduling, engineering,
   construction, and funding activities required to support the platform
   projects and programs.

   The Surveillance/Weather Platform, ANI-860, is responsible for the
   establishment, relocation, and modernization of all radar, beacon, and
   weather systems. This includes all plants and electronic design,
   siting, and construction of relocated or nationally procured systems
   and their required peripheral electronics. This platform is also
   required to optimize all radar and beacon systems that are relocated,
   newly installed, or modified by the FAA or an outside contractor.

   The Communications/Telco Platform, ANI-870, is responsible for the
   implementation of new communication, telecommunication, and maintenance
   automation systems for the National Airspace System. This includes the
   planning, scheduling, coordinating and budgeting of the engineering and
   installation of these systems into the operations environment for Air
   Traffic Control.

   The NAV/Landing Aids Platform, ANI-880, is responsible for the
   establishment, relocation, and modernization of all navigational aids
   such as Instrument Landing Systems (ILS), Very High Frequency
   Omnidirectional Ranges (VOR's), Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and
   Non-Directional Beacons (NDB's) as well as the visual guidance systems,
   such as Approach Lighting Systems (ALS) and Visual Approach Slope
   Indicators (VASI). This includes all plants and electronic design,
   siting, and construction of relocated or nationally procured systems
   and their required peripheral electronics.

   The Construction/Installation/Materiel Platform, ANI-890, is
   responsible for coordinating and installing electronic equipment,
   monitoring construction projects, managing warehouses, and materiels.
   This includes working with new systems and modifying and upgrading of
   existing systems as well as providing on-the-job training to
   maintenance and Air Traffic personnel. These activities are in support
   of automation, communication, navigation, surveillance, en route, and
   terminal programs and systems.

                                  * * * * *
                            Mission of the AFREP
                                   ANM-900

   The Air Force Regional Representative (AFREP), Northwest Mountain
   Region, has been established and organized to act as Secretary of the
   Air Force Representatives to the Federal Aviation Administration,
   Northwest Mountain Region. The AFREP is accredited with authority to
   formulate the Department of Air Force Position on airspace matters and
   represent the Air Force in the coordination and negotiation of all
   matters pertaining to military air operations in the National Airspace
   System. The AFREP office performs this mission through programs that
   support the mission of Headquarters Air Force through the services of
   the Air Force Flight Standards Agency.

                              AFREP Operations

   The AFREP operations can be organized to focus upon five major areas in
   support of peacetime, wartime, and other contingency missions:

   · Support to Air Force active duty, national guard and reserve
   components.
   · Support to the Northwest Mountain FAA Regional Headquarters, and
   associated regional air traffic and support facilities.
   · Internal management activities associated with the Air Force Flight
   Standards Agency.
   · Liaison with federal, state and local agencies.
   · Cooperation with representatives of other uniformed services.

                   Organizational Functions and Processes

   Given the mission of the AFREP, the AFREP office accomplishes a variety
   of functions/processes:

   · Establish Department of the Air Force position on airspace and air
   traffic control matters.
   · Establish and maintain working relationships with military and FAA
   organizations.
   · Conduct general assessments.
   · Gather and disseminate information.
   · Provide advice.
   · Provide assistance.
   · Effect coordination.
   · Administer the AFREP office.
   · Train newly assigned staff.
   · Conduct necessary travel to accomplish the above items.

                                  * * * * *
                             Mission of the DARR
                                   ANM-902

   The Department of the Army Regional Representative (DARR), Northwest
   Mountain and Alaska Regions, has been established and organized to act
   as the Secretary of the Army's Representative to the Federal Aviation
   Administration Region. The DARR office performs this mission through
   programs that support the mission of the US Army Aeronautical Services
   Office and US Army Air Traffic Control Activity.

          Department of the Army Regional Representative Operations

   The DARR operations have been organized to focus upon five major areas
   in support of peacetime, wartime, and other contingency missions:

   · Support to US Army active-duty, NGB, and Reserve components.
   · Internal management activities associated with the Aeronautical
   Services Agency and US Army Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations.
   · Support to the Northwest Mountain FAA Regional headquarters.
   · Support to the Alaska FAA Regional headquarters.
   · Support to the US Army Air Traffic Control Activity.

   Organizational Functions and Processes

   Given the mission of the DARR, the DARR office accomplishes a variety
   of functions/processes. The 10 processes are:

   · Establish Department of the Army Regional Representative (DARR)
   direction.
   · Establish and maintain working relationships with US Army and FAA
   organizations.
   · Conduct general assessments.
   · Gather and disseminate information.
   · Provide advice.
   · Provide assistance.
   · Effect coordination.
   · Prepare, plan, and conduct individual and unit training.
   · Administer the DARR Office.
   · Train DARR personnel.

                                   NAVREP

   The Department of the Navy Representative with responsibilities for the
   Northwest Mountain FAA Region is located in the Western Pacific
   Regional Headquarters (310-297-1162).
