http://www.tsi.dot.gov/staff.htm

   boarder graphic   boarder graphic   boarder graphic

   boarder graphic    title graphic

     TSI home Link Campus location Link Hotel location Link Division Link
   Web Resources Link

       tsi links text graphic
       bullet Our Director

       bullet Associate
            Director

       bullet Services

       bullet Division
            Managers

       bullet Instructors

       bullet Training
            Facilities
   tsi connected graphic

Professionalism

TSI's reputation for quality and excellence in training is a tribute to our
dedicated professional staff.  Instructional staff are assigned to specific
programs according to their expertise and background experience.  While staff
members are highly experienced in transportation-related work, they are also
skilled teachers and course developers, dedicated to meeting the challenge of
providing competency-based, job-related training.  They spend many hours
preparing classroom and laboratory presentations and providing extra tutorial
assistance to students.

Associate Staff are individuals from industry, Federal, state and local
governments, including the sponsoring agency, who have technical expertise
and the ability to communicate.  They assist in the development and delivery
of courses at no cost other than the travel and per diem expenses to and from
the training site. TSI has "fine tuned" the Associate Staff concept to
accomplish its goal to provide the finest quality training possible with
minimal cost.

Benefits

The benefits of our Associate Staff participating in training:

     * A functional, effective, and an economical means for the Institute
       to provide current state-of-the-art training while maintaining a
       small, full-time resident staff.
     * Effectively extends the scope and capability of training.
     * Exposure and contacts provide a great benefit to Associate Staff,
       their employers, and TSI.  TSI staff and Associate Staff become
       nationally recognized leaders and experts in their field due to
       their own experience and the large number of students who recognize
       and esteem their capabilities.
     * Students benefit from the diversity of knowledgeable professionals
       working on projects, topics, and problems of current significance
       -- often the very people who are responsible for national programs.

The Institute currently has over 400 Associate Staff in its teaching
programs, many of whom have been participating for several years.

   boarder graphic
