http://aeldata.phy.nist.gov/MeasCal/contents.html

   Measurements and Calibrations


   General

   Spectrometer Calibration Beamline
          Beamline 2 (BL-2) at SURF III is dedicated to spectrometer
          calibrations, and provides a standard source of irradiance from
          4 nm to 400 nm.

   The XUV Detector Calibration Beamline at SURF III
          One of the beamlines (BL-9) at SURF III is dedicated to the
          calibration of transfer standard detectors in the XUV spectral
          region from 5 nm to 50 nm.

   Nuclear Power Industry NEI/NIST Measurement Assurance Program
          Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) established a Measurement
          Assurance Program at NIST to provide sponsoring nuclear
          utilities, commercial suppliers of radioactive sources, and
          service laboratories independent verifications, traceable to
          NIST.

   Radiopharmaceutical Industry NEI/NIST Measurement Assurance Program
          Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and the National Institute of
          Standards and Technology have cooperated in a measurements
          assurance program in the field of nuclear medicine.
          Participation in the program allows sponsors an independent
          verification, traceability to NIST, of their capability to make
          accurate radioactivity measurements.

   Mammographic X-Ray Instrument Calibration Range
          The Ionizing Radiation Division in the Physics Laboratory has
          established new national standards for radiation exposure from
          x-ray beams used in mammography and has completed new facilities
          for calibration of exposure meters in these beams.

   Frequency Measurement and Analysis Service
          The NIST Frequency Measurement and Analysis Service makes it
          easy to measure and calibrate any quartz, rubidium, or cesium
          frequency standard. All measurements are made automatically, and
          are traceable to NIST at an uncertainty level of ±5 × 10^-13 per
          day. Subscribers to the NIST service receive a complete
          frequency measurement system which includes everything needed to
          make state-of-the-art frequency measurements that are traceable
          to NIST.

   NIST Global Positioning System (GPS) Data Archive
          NIST continuously monitors the Global Positioning System (GPS)
          satellite signals from Boulder, Colorado and compares the
          frequency standard on each satellite to the NIST frequency
          standard. The results are published in the NIST GPS Data
          Archive. The archived data can be used to support claims of
          frequency traceability to NIST through the use of GPS, since the
          frequency uncertainty of each satellite is listed. You can use
          the archive to quickly check the status of the GPS constellation
          on any given date. New GPS data (from the previous day) are
          added to the archive daily at about 1600 UTC.

   NIST Time Services

   NIST Web Clock
          See a display of what time it is anywhere in the country. The
          reference for the clock is the NIST Time Scale in Boulder, CO.

   Automated Computer Time Service (ACTS)
          NIST's Automated Computer Time Service (ACTS) has been provided
          since 1988 to those users who need to synchronize computer
          clocks to the correct time. Using ACTS requires only a computer,
          a modem, and some simple software. When a computer connects to
          ACTS by telephone, it receives an ASCII time code. The
          information in the time code is then used to set the computer's
          clock.

   NIST Internet Time Service
          The NIST Internet Time Service allows users to synchronize
          computer clocks via the Internet. The time information provided
          by the service is directly traceable to UTC(NIST). The service
          responds to time requests from any Internet client in several
          formats including the DAYTIME, TIME, and NTP protocols.

   Optical Technology
   Calibration Services

   Low Background Infrared Measurements
          The LBIR Facility is available to service the user community to
          characterize infrared radiometric sources, detectors and optical
          components in a low background environment. The scientists at
          the facility will collaborate for special tests to measure
          infrared optical properties of materials, to characterize
          sources and detectors and to perform other experiments at
          cryogenic temperatures.

   Optical Properties of Materials Measurements
          Measurements are made on customer supplied artifacts over the
          spectral wavelength range 200 nm to 2500 nm. Measurement
          Services include: Transmittance, regular and diffuse; and
          Reflectance, specular and diffuse using hemispherical and
          bidirectional geometries.

   Photodetector Measurements
          This service provides characterized silicon detectors and
          special tests of customer supplied detectors. Spectral
          responsivity and uniformity measurements are made on
          photodiodes, detectors, and radiometers from 200 nm to 1.8 µm.

   Photometric Measurements
          Various calibration services are now available for luminous
          intensity, total luminous flux, illuminance, luminance, and
          color temperature.

   Radiance Temperature Measurements
          Measurement of Radiance Temperature of Disappearing Optical
          Pyrometers, Ribbon Filament Lamps, and Radiation Thermometers
          provide access to the International Temperature Scale of 1990
          (ITS-90). NIST disseminates the radiance temperature scale from
          800 °C to 2700 °C by issuing ribbon filament lamp standards of
          radiance temperature and by calibrating customer supplied
          pyrometers and radiation thermometers.

   Spectral Radiance and Irradiance Source Measurements
          Spectral radiometric measurements of radiance and irradiance
          standards in the spectral region of 200 nm to 2400 nm are
          performed. Spectral irradiance standards are supplied by NIST in
          two forms: tungsten filament lamps and deuterium lamps. Special
          tests are available.

      NIST: National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Physics
    Laboratory Home Pages designed and maintained by the Office of ECSED.
                Inquiries or comments: www@physics.nist.gov.
              Online: March 1996   -   Last update: April 2001
