http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/physics_smr_final.pdf

   Preliminary Physics Subject Matter Requirements Domain 1. Motion and
   Forces Candidates demonstrate a calculus-based understanding of motion
   and the relationship of force to motion. Candidates use analytical,
   numerical, and graphical methods in problem- solving. 1.1 Motion and
   Forces a. Solve problems using Newton's Second Law (e.g., problems
   involving time, velocity, and space-dependent forces) b. Construct
   appropriate free-body diagrams of many-body problems (e.g., two or more
   coupled masses) c. Solve periodic motion problems d. Discuss the
   relativistic limits of Newton's laws e. Solve 2-dimensional problems
   involving vector analysis of motion and forces, including projectile
   motion, uniform circular motion, and statics f. Generate and understand
   calculus-based functional relationships of graphs showing distance,
   velocity, and acceleration versus time g. Recognize relationships among
   variables for linear motion and rotational motion h. Solve problems
   involving mixed linear and rotational motion in term of forces and
   torques Domain 2. Conservation of Energy and Momentum Candidates
   demonstrate an understanding of the principles of conservation of
   energy and momentum. They apply this understanding to predict and
   describe the movement of objects. 2.1 Conservation of Energy and
   Momentum a. Use conservation of energy to characterize
   kinetic-potential energy systems such as oscillating systems (pendula
   and springs), projectile motion, and roller coasters b. Analyze elastic
   and inelastic collisions and solve for unknown values c. Solve problems
   involving mixed linear and rotational motion in terms of conservation
   of momentum and energy d. Recognize relationships between
   energy/momentum conservation principles and Newton's Laws e. Describe
   relativistic generalizations of energy and momentum f. Examine the
   impact of friction on conservation principles g. Interpret
   force-versus-time and force-versus-distance graphs to find, for
   example, work done or impulse on a system Domain 3. Heat and
   Thermodynamics Candidates demonstrate understanding of the laws of
   thermodynamics and the thermodynamic properties of materials. Science,
   Physics 1 3.1 Heat and Thermodynamics a. Solve problems involving the
   laws of thermodynamics using the relationships among work, heat flow,
   energy, and entropy b. Define and correctly apply thermodynamic
   properties of materials such as specific heat (heat capacity), heats of
   fusion, heat of vaporization, thermal conductivity, and thermal
   expansion to solve problems c. Solve problems for ideal gas systems d.
   Solve problems involving cyclic processes, including calculations of
   work done, heat gain/loss, efficiency, entropy change, and
   reversibility e. Apply entropy as a statistical process at the atomic
   and molecular level f. Interpret graphs showing phase changes and
   graphs of cyclic processes g. Describe the significance of the Carnot
   cycle h. Describe a plasma, state its characteristic properties, and
   contrast it with an ideal gas Domain 4. Waves Candidates can describe
   waves and their characteristic properties and understand that these
   properties do not depend on the type of wave. They use their knowledge
   of waves and wave properties to predict wave behavior under various
   conditions. Candidates are familiar with the electromagnetic spectrum.
   4.1 Waves and Their Characteristic Properties a. Relate wave
   propagation to properties of materials (e.g., predict wave speed from
   density and tension) b. Describe, distinguish, and solve both
   conceptual and numerical problems involving interference, diffraction,
   refraction, reflection, Doppler effect, polarization, dispersion, and
   scattering Domain 5. Electromagnetism Candidates understand the
   relationship between electric and magnetic phenomena and can apply
   their knowledge to real-life examples. They can solve calculus-based
   problems using the quantitative and vector relationships among charges,
   currents, forces, and fields. 5.1 Electric and Magnetic Phenomena a.
   Analyze electric and magnetic forces, charges, and fields using
   Coulomb's law, the Lorentz force, and the right-hand rule b. Apply
   energy principles to analyze problems in electricity, magnetism, and
   circuit theory involving capacitors, resistors, and inductors c.
   Calculate power, voltage changes, current, and resistance in multiloop
   circuits involving capacitors, resistors, and inductors d. Interpret
   and design mixed series and parallel circuits involving capacitors,
   resistors, and inductors e. Solve problems involving the relationships
   between electric and magnetic phenomena f. Explain properties of
   transistors, diodes, and semiconductors Science, Physics 2 Domain 6.
   Quantum Mechanics and the Standard Model of Particles Candidates are
   familiar with the standard model of particles and the four fundamental
   forces of nature. They recognize the assumptions and principles of
   quantum mechanics. 6.1 Quantum Mechanics and the Standard Model a.
   Recognize the properties and names of quarks and leptons b. Distinguish
   the four fundamental forces of nature, describe their ranges, and
   identify their force carriers c. Evaluate the assumptions and relevance
   of the Bohr model of the atom d. Discuss the significance of the black
   body radiation problem and the relevance of Planck's constant e. Know
   the processes of absorption, spontaneous emission, and stimulated
   emission, and their applications to lasers, X-ray fluorescence,
   light-emitting diodes, and other technologies f. Interpret energy level
   diagrams, discuss the quantization of energy levels, and assess the
   significance of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle Science, Physics 3
