http://www.ocio.usda.gov/revapp0701.doc

   OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER REVISED FY 2001 AND FY2002
   ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN Secretary's Memorandum 10-30, pursuant to the
   Clinger Cohen Act of 1996, established the Office of the Chief
   Information Officer (OCIO). The OCIO has primary responsibility for
   supervision and coordination within the U.S. Department of Agriculture
   (USDA) of the design, acquisition, maintenance, use, and disposal of
   information technology by USDA agencies. The mission of the OCIO is to
   strategically acquire and use information and technology resources to
   improve the quality, timeliness, and cost effectiveness of USDA service
   delivery to its customers. OCIO has activities that are funded through
   the USDA Working Capital Fund (WCF). These activities, or cost centers,
   operate using a cost recovery method for services rendered. This
   performance plan reflects changes that have been made to the OCIO
   Strategic Plan and previous performance plans. Management Initiatives 1
   and 2 have been discontinued and are included under strategic goal 2.
   We have eliminated redundancies and improved the clarity of the
   organizational goals and the means by which they are achieved. It is
   anticipated that the Strategic Plan will continue to evolve as OCIO
   examines its role in, and the methods for, providing sound information
   technology guidance in USDA. The General Accounting Office and the
   Office of the Inspector General have identified two major management
   challenges for OCIO: Telecommunications and Information Technology. The
   corrective actions for the telecommunications management challenge is
   being reported under Goal 1 - Objective 1.2 and corrective actions for
   the information technology management challenge is being reported under
   Goal 3 - Objective 3.2. Goal 1: Enhance Customer Service and
   Operational Support Program Activity: Office of the Chief Information
   Officer - National Information and Technology Center Funding Source (in
   thousands of dollars) FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY
   2002 Estimate Funding (WCF) $49,506 $48,295 $51,778 $53,010 FTEs (WCF)
   169 169 175 175 Objective 1.1: Be a leading, innovative technology
   organization, experienced in providing quality and cost effective
   services for centralized and distributed computing, and applications
   support. These activities are financed through the Departmental Working
   Capital Fund (WCF). PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY
   2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Support the USDA
   Enterprise architecture: Computing platforms with web interface
   Security Improvements 70% 6 100% 7 100% 5 100% 5 Develop new services
   and increase our customer base for existing services: Revenue increases
   for new services New business proposals submitted 9% 13 4% 8 5% 10 5%
   10 Improve customer service quality Employees trained 98% 86% 87% 88%
   Discussion of Annual Performance Goals: The annual performance goals
   shown are not all- encompassing; however, they are the most important
   goals for the OCIO WCF activities. The five-year strategic plan for the
   OCIO WCF activities, provides an overview of the strategic direction
   for all OCIO WCF activities. Following is a discussion of each annual
   performance goal: Support the USDA Enterprise Architecture (EA): The
   USDA EA is a blueprint for the USDA computing and telecommunications
   environment. NITC has a significant role in the operation and
   maintenance of the existing USDA architecture, and is committed to
   providing an open environment that will facilitate the transition to
   the future environment. NITC will develop and offer the expertise
   necessary to assist the OCIO in migrating the USDA to the new
   architecture. Every organizational unit of NITC will play a key role in
   migrating from the current to the future Enterprise architecture.
   Improve Customer Service Quality: We must make our commitment to
   customers highly visible through an aggressive approach to problem
   resolution, improved technical communications, a centralized help desk
   (customer service center), and the development of good customer service
   skills. Those capabilities must be evident in all staff, including
   clerical, administrative, and operations personnel. Develop New
   Services and Increase Customer Base for Existing Services: For NITC to
   remain a growing and viable organization, we must anticipate and
   respond to the changing IT requirements of Federal agencies. We must
   position NITC to offer new services, and to attract new customers to
   our existing services. NITC should strive to develop an organization
   that solves business problems by partnering between locations and
   leveraging its core operations and applications development
   competencies to deliver a wide range of IT services. This would allow
   the two NITC working capital fund activities to share a well-balanced
   and common customer portfolio comprised of many USDA and other Federal
   agencies. Means and Strategies: These activities are funded through the
   WCF, a cost recovery mechanism that allows service providers and
   customers to take advantage of its reimbursement and investment
   characteristics to obtain goods and services at the lowest possible
   unit cost. To achieve the annual plan will require continual support of
   the customers of these activities. Additionally, it will require that
   all OCIO WCF activities, in concert with the Chief Information Officer,
   work with customers to develop budgets consistent with their ability to
   pay, and expectation of future benefits. Verification and Validation:
   The effectiveness of the improved customer service quality strategy
   will be measured through direct interviews with customers and
   employees. Performance baselines have been developed and performance
   indicators will be monitored. Program Activity: Office of the Chief
   Information Officer - Telecommunication Services Funding Source (in
   thousands of dollars) FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY
   2002 Estimate Funding (WCF) N/A N/A $20,694 $24,898 Funding
   (Appropriated) N/A N/A $1,617 $1,617 Funding (Y2K Supplemental) $8,820
   $3,470 $435 $0 Funding (WCF MOAS) $66 $92 $88 $88 FTE - (WCF) N/A N/A
   47 47 FTE - (Appropriated) 8 8 9 9 FTE - (WCF MOAS) .5 .5 1 1 Objective
   1.2: Telecommunications Service Delivery PERFORMANCE GOALS AND
   INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002
   Estimate Percent of USDA Agencies transitioned to the FTS2001 Long
   Distance Service Provider 15% 79% 100% Complete USDA Universal
   Telecommunications Network: Develop Strategic Plan Implement Universal
   Telecommunications Network N/A N/A 85% 100% 32% 100% Improve
   performance of existing network through enhanced network management
   capabilities Percent of reduction on average utilization of network
   capacity N/A 85% 65% Strengthen security by configuring USDA Internet
   access points in accordance with Departmental security standards
   Percent of access points in accordance N/A 75% 100% Complete Discussion
   of Annual Performance Goals: USDA continues to transition long distance
   services from the FTS2000 service provider to the FTS2001 provider.
   OCIO had originally forecasted that the majority of the USDA transition
   would be completed by Sept. 30, 2000 with a Afallback@ transition
   deadline date of Dec. 6, 2000 to coincide with the expiration of the
   FTS2000 contract. Several key issues have contributed as impediments to
   USDA=s transition: (1) lack of coordination between AT&T and Worldcom,
   (2) AT&T disconnect orders not being processed, and (3) the local
   Verizon strike. The General Services Administration (GSA), responsible
   for the award and oversight of both the FTS2000 and FTS2001 contracts,
   has recognized that a number of situations has hindered the forward
   progress of the government-wide transition effort. GSA is currently
   negotiating with the FTS2000 service provider on a new contract that
   encompasses all services for all agencies for a six-month period. OCIO
   anticipates that the transition will be completed in FY 2001. The
   Universal Telecommunications Network (UTN) project has received
   Executive Information Technology Investment Review Board (EITIRB)
   approval and was ranked as the Department=s second highest priority in
   the USDA administrative investment portfolio. During FY 2001, OCIO will
   finalize the business requirements study for the UTN and begin the
   investigation of appropriate network management tools, including
   encryption tools, for the UTN. The development of a Network Management
   and Coordination Center that will provide network operational and
   security troubleshooting functionality will also be initiated.
   Utilization of the existing network backbone has been increasing at an
   exponential rate over the past few years. OCIO has expanded the circuit
   bandwidth sevenfold with only a fourfold increase in costs since 1998.
   OCIO will be actively monitoring network utilization in order to
   predict trends and increase bandwidth accordingly. This action will
   result in a reduction of the percentage of average utilization of
   network capacity in the future. Firewalls and Intrusion Detection
   Systems (IDS) have been installed at all of the existing Internet
   Access Nodes: Washington, D.C., Fort Collins, CO, Kansas City, MO,
   Albany, CA, Portland, OR, and St. Louis, MO. As additional nodes are
   approved, identical security measures will be installed. Means and
   Strategies: Telecommunications operations management is funded through
   the Working Capital Fund (WCF). This includes funding for the UTN as
   well as funding to improve the management of telecommunications
   services and equipment. After a rigorous capital planning evaluation
   process in FY 2000, the EITIRB approved the UTN concept. OCIO requested
   $4.5 million in FY 2001 to fund the UTN initiative, and $8.2 million
   for the UTN in the FY 2002 budget. Telecommunications policy management
   is funded through direct appropriations. The policy component ensures
   Department-wide telecommunications policies are developed and
   integrated into the telecommunications decision-making process.
   Security of voice communications is also a priority. OCIO is developing
   strategies to transition from Secure Telephone Units (STU-IIIs) to
   Secure Terminal Equipment and has requested funding in FY 2002 to
   initiate a three-year phased transition process. Verification and
   Validation: A condition of the EITIRB=s approval for the UTN project is
   the ongoing involvement of the agencies via a series of go/no go
   decisions with the newly established Telecommunications Advisory
   Council (TAC) and the EITIRB. The WCF has approved the funding request
   for the UTN in FY 2001 with a Ahold@ placed on $900,000 until the
   design of the UTN is approved. The UTN will be implemented in phases
   with agency feedback and involvement in each of the critical phases of:
   business needs identification; architectural/network design;
   acquisition strategy; implementation; and operation of the UTN.
   Concurrence by the TAC, which is comprised of CIO=s or program
   officials from each of USDA=s mission areas and other selected
   representation, is required before the start of a new phase. The OCIO
   monitors the progress of the FTS2001 Transition via network usage
   reports available from USDA=s network service provider, Worldcom,
   through the Fort Collins, CO office. OCIO also receives status updates
   from GSA at the monthly Transition Task Force meetings. In FY 2002,
   OCIO has requested funding for a telecommunications management review,
   evaluation, and guidance program to assure that USDA realizes the value
   and return on its telecommunications investment. This program will
   enable USDA to monitor and assess its telecommunications program,
   evaluate decisions and compliance with policy, provide guidance for the
   Department as a whole, and implement corrective actions when gaps are
   identified. Goal 2: Information Technology Capital Investments and
   Information Technology Workforce Program Activities: Chief Information
   Officer Funding Source (in thousands of dollars) FY 1999 Actual FY 2000
   Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Funding $2,727 $2,722 $3,666
   $3,666 MOAS (WCF) 69 92 89 89 FTE 23 32 35 35 FTE (MOAS) .5 1 1 1
   Objective 2.1: Ensure IT investments are managed and deployed
   effectively. PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000
   Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Enhance the CPIC process by
   increasing use of USDA's I-TIPS Percent of major and significant
   systems Utilizing the full range of CPIC tools and methods 5 20 35 35
   Discussion of Annual Performance Goals: Based on OCIO guidance, USDA
   agencies have begun using the Information Technology Investment
   Portfolio System (I-TIPS) to manage their IT investments. All major and
   significant systems are reported via I-TIPS to OCIO and to the Office
   of Management and Budget. All agencies are using basic I-TIPS
   capabilities to report general and financial information regarding
   their investments. However, I-TIPS has additional capabilities for
   management and reporting on investments. These include reporting for
   performance measures and reporting progress against cost and schedule
   milestones. To achieve real benefit from I-TIPS and from IT Capital
   Planning, OCIO will work with agencies to increase the scope of their
   project management activities and the quality of the data reported via
   I-TIPS. Means and Strategies: Some additional progress can be made in
   this area by providing more staff resources to work directly with
   agencies. However, much of the potential for better data and increased
   understanding of the requirements of good capital planning are
   dependent upon supplemental tools to improve agencies data concerning
   return on investment for IT, risk assessments for IT, and
   mission-related performance measures for IT. Such tools will improve
   consistency of process and validity of data, as well as the
   understanding of risk, performance measurement and ROI concepts across
   the Department. Verification and Validation: Increased use of I-TIPS is
   verified and validated by OCIO oversight. Improvements in quality of
   data will be validated by OCIO staff, contract staff retained to assist
   in investment review, and through feedback from the Office of
   Management and Budget. Objective 2.2: Develop an Adaptive Enterprise
   Architecture PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000
   Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Increase number of corporate
   projects and information systems Percent of duplicate systems
   eliminated 5% 5% 5% 5% Increase use of commercial-off-the-shelf
   products Percent of increase use of COTS 15% 15% 15% 15% Increase
   number of enterprise/master contracts # of new/or renew
   enterprise/master contracts 1 2 5 8 Discussion of Annual Performance
   Goals: In general, USDA agencies have operated independently to address
   their respective information and technology needs, resulting in a broad
   array of disparate technical solutions across the Department. While the
   variety of agency missions suggest the need for a certain level of
   agency autonomy in IT decision making, there are many areas where
   leveraging resources and technologies to implement related business
   processes can result in cost savings and improved efficiencies. USDA's
   Enterprise Architecture (EA) provides a corporate view of and direction
   for USDA's information and technology assets. USDA will focus on three
   areas for achieving its Enterprise Architecture. These areas are
   eliminating duplicate information systems, increasing the use of COTS,
   and increasing the number of enterprise/master contracts. Means and
   Strategies: OCIO will work with USDA agencies to create an awareness of
   USDA's current information systems and technology asset base. OCIO use
   and update its EA information systems and technology inventories to
   evaluate its progress, analyze changes, and determine the change.
   Verification and Validation: OCIO will validate its progress based on
   changes in its baseline information systems and technology inventories.
   USDA's information systems and technology asset base will be updated
   using Internet-based survey tools. Objective 2.3: Improve IT Workforce
   PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001
   Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Develop a baseline that will describe
   specific characteristics of USDA's IT workforce and make projections
   for the future Percent complete N/A N/A 100% Complete Distribute and
   market federal IT core competencies Develop IT skills assessment model
   based on competencies N/A N/A 100% 100% Complete Complete USDA IT
   skills assessments N/A N/A N/A 100% Develop IT Workforce Plan N/A N/A
   50% 100% Discussion of Annual Performance Goals: OCIO has successfully
   completed development of the baseline description of the IT Workforce.
   Work will now focus on inculcating the federal IT core competencies
   into USDA's business. During 2001, we will distribute the competencies
   to all USDA agencies, and develop a skills assessment model that is
   based on those competencies. The goal is to use the model (and the
   underlying competencies) to make decisions regarding career paths,
   training and employee development. Means and Strategies: OCIO will
   continue to work closely with OHRM and other HR staff within USDA.
   Success is dependent upon a close working relationship with those
   groups. OCIO will also maintain knowledge of other agencies' activities
   and best practices through the Federal CIO Council's IT Workforce
   Committee. Dissemination of information will take place through
   existing councils. Development and completion of skills assessments
   will involve contract support. Verification and Validation: Each of the
   milestones mentioned above is discrete. Completion will be evident and
   verified internally. Objective 2.4: Ensure the Civil Rights of all
   PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001
   Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Provide Civil Rights training for all
   employees: Percent of employees trained in Civil Rights 100% 100% 100%
   100% Provide ethics management training for all employees: Percent of
   employees trained in ethics management 100% 100% 100% 100% Discussion
   of Annual Performance Goals: The achievement of these performance goals
   supports USDA's Goal 5, Objective 5.1: Ensure that USDA provides fair
   and equitable service to all customers and upholds the civil rights of
   its employees. To provide excellent service to the customer and to meet
   the OCIO goals, each OCIO employee must be given the opportunity to
   continually improve his or her individual quality of work and
   effectiveness. Further, each individual must be treated fairly and
   equally. This ongoing goal will ensure that employees are continually
   exposed to new and improved quality business practices and at the same
   time, are valued and respected. This improved working environment will
   increase the level for employee morale. Means and Strategies: OCIO will
   continue to recruit employees from all sectors and hire the most
   qualified applicant. OCIO will ensure that all decisions related to
   personnel actions are in concert with the Department's civil rights
   compliance and enforcement functions, and that individuals are treated
   with the respect they deserve. The success of the OCIO goals depends
   upon an energized, quality workforce where civil rights are followed.
   Resources necessary to accomplish this initiative will be covered in
   the overall funding and FTE of the OCIO goals. Verification and
   Validation: The effectiveness of civil rights and conflict management
   training will be measured through employee feedback and through a
   reduction in the number of formal complaints filed. Goal 3: Effective
   Stewardship through Enterprise Program Management Program Activity:
   Office of the Chief Information Officer Funding Source (in thousands of
   dollars) FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002
   Estimate Funding (Appropriated CCE) 0 $12,500 $59,500 $59,500 Funding
   (Appropriated ) 0 0 $599 $599 Funding (Reimbursements) $250 $10,650
   $11,680 0 Funding (MOAS) $67 $92 $89 $89 FTE (Appropriated CCE) 2 2 0 3
   FTE (Appropriated) 0 0 2 2 FTE (Reimbursements) 0 0 3 0 FTE (MOAS) .5
   .5 1 1 Objective 3.1: Promote Transformation through E-Government
   PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001
   Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Transformation to a fully integrated
   e-government environment Percent of on-line transaction, including
   Electronic signature implemented N/A N/A 20% 75% Discussion of Annual
   Performance Goals: In response to public expectations, Congress and the
   President have mandated a major transformation in the way government
   serves citizens. The Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) of
   1998 and the Freedom to E-file Act of 2000, among other legislation,
   require USDA agencies to make information and services available
   electronically by 2002/2003. Although computer technology is making it
   possible, E-government is primarily about changing the way USDA does
   business. At the request of the Secretary, each mission area has
   appointed a senior program leader to work with the Department's
   E-Business Executive and OCIO to develop plans to implement GPEA and
   Freedom to E-file. Guiding E-government's direction at USDA presents
   significant challenges for Department's programmatic leaders as well as
   the Information Technology Community. These include: Managing change to
   E-government while maintaining existing program models; Prioritizing
   E-government initiatives; Reengineering USDA's business processes;
   Providing funding for E-government within existing budgets; Building a
   secure, reliable, web-based infrastructure capable of delivering
   programs 24/7/365. Means and Strategies: In October 2000, USDA agencies
   submitted their first GPEA plans. These plans focus on three areas:
   Collections Under the Paperwork Reduction Act, Interagency Reporting
   Requirements, and High Risk Transactions. OCIO used a web-reporting
   application and database for agency reporting. During FY 2001, this
   application will be integrated with the Information Collection database
   to facilitate tracking of agency e-government initiatives. Agencies
   will be required to report quarterly on their progress on transforming
   effected program areas. It is also anticipated that OMB will require
   periodic progress reports. Verification and Validation: Agency progress
   will be validated through GPEA reporting and analysis of these reports,
   Information Collection packages submitted showing electronic
   information collection, discuss with agencies, and through the
   information technology budget process. Objective 3.2: Implement the
   Information Technology Infrastructure for USDA Service Center
   Modernization Initiative PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999
   Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Develop and
   implement a common computer environment infrastructure for USDA Service
   Centers which includes the whole package of hardware, software,
   security, websites, telecommunications and databases, but excludes the
   development of applications Percent of workstations deployed Percent of
   FSA Connectivity solution deployed Percent of network servers deployed
   Percent of application servers deployed Number of common Service Center
   Agency web farms implemented Enhancements to web farm security,
   Services and connectivity Number of Service Center agency data
   Warehouses implemented 74% 86% 100% 100% 100% 100% 3 2 Complete
   Complete Complete Complete Complete 100% Complete Discussion of Annual
   Performance Goals: On March 8, 2000, the Deputy Secretary assigned
   direct management oversight and implementation of IT component of the
   Service Center Management Initiative (SCMI) to the Office of the Chief
   Information Officer. This effort includes developing and implementing
   the strategy for achieving a single information technology
   infrastructure to support the modernized business activities of the
   USDA county-based agencies. Means and Strategies: OCIO has moved
   aggressively to improve overall management of the project. Major
   activities include the following: Management Structure. In April 2000,
   OCIO established an Information Technology Working Group (ITWG) to
   coordinate day-to-day IT Modernization activities, chaired by a Senior
   Executive from OCIO. The ITWG includes the Chief Information Officers
   (CIO's) from the three Service Center agencies, agency team leaders
   from the nine IT teams, the Executive Director of the NFAC,
   representation from employee unions and associations, and
   representatives from local soil conservation districts and State
   Conservation agency partners. Blueprint Vision. A clear, easily
   understood and relatively concise vision document for SCMI-IT has also
   been developed that clearly articulates why SCMI-IT is needed, what is
   planned, how it will be done, when it will be done, what benefits it
   will provide and how much it will cost. This blueprint represents the
   common IT vision of the Service Center agencies and will guide all
   implementation efforts. Integrated Project Plan. An integrated project
   planning approach has been implemented bringing together each of the
   individual IT project plans. The integrated project plan highlights
   milestones, deliverables, dependencies, risks, etc. and provides a tool
   for effectively monitoring and evaluating progress. Congressional
   Relations and Support. OCIO has worked intensively with a broad range
   of Congressional committees and staff to brief them on SCMI-IT. As a
   result, Congressional concerns regarding the management of the program
   and the risks of providing appropriations to support it have largely
   been addressed. Verification and Validation: Quarterly status reports
   are provided to Congress, the Deputy Secretary and Agency Heads on the
   accomplishments of this project in meeting the goals for the
   Department. Goal 4: Develop, Implement and Maintain a Secure and
   Confident IT Environment While Protecting Privacy Program Activities:
   Chief Information Officer Funding Source (in thousands of dollars) FY
   1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Funding
   (Appropriated) 0 $900 $4,379 $4,379 Funding (MOAS) 0 $92 $89 $89 FTE
   (Appropriated) 0 9 23 23 FTE (MOAS) 0 0 1 1 Objective 4.1: Ensure USDA
   agencies have identified security vulnerabilities and implemented
   strategies to mitigate them. PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999
   Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001 Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Provide policy,
   guidance and training to strengthen USDA information security to all
   USDA agencies. Evaluate al mission critical information systems and
   identify all vulnerabilities. Develop mitigation plans for
   vulnerabilities discovered through formal threat assessments. Percent
   of USDA critical information systems evaluated Percent of mitigation
   plans developed for vulnerabilities discovered through formal threat
   assessments N/A N/A 10% N/A 50% 25% 100% 75% Discussion of Annual
   Performance Goals: Comprehensive and thorough security threat
   assessments of USDA's information assets must become an integral part
   of IT management within the Department. OCIO will begin a campaign to
   institutionalize IT risk management as a standard component of USDA's
   technology investment and management strategy. Means and Strategies:
   Contract support is required to develop a risk assessment methodology,
   issue guidance, conduct training, and work directly with OCIO and the
   agencies to conduct risk assessments. Agencies will be responsible for
   conducting and funding agency risk assessments and providing the
   results of those risk assessments to the Central Cyber Security Program
   Office. Risk assessments and subsequent data analyses will form the
   basis for the decision-making process required to protect USDA's
   critical cyber infrastructure, identified under Presidential Decision
   Directive 63. Program and information technology officials will work
   together to ensure accountability needed for short-term risk/threat
   identification and long-term mitigation. Contract support will be
   required for analyzing and synthesizing the results of the agency risk
   assessments from a Departmental perspective, including cost-benefit
   analysis and developing risk mitigation strategies. Verification and
   Validation: The effectiveness of the risk management strategy will be
   measured through feedback from function managers and their awareness of
   threats and threat mitigation, as well as through independent and
   oversight reviews of agency self-assessments Objective 4.2: Develop and
   implement an information and telecommunications security architecture.
   PERFORMANCE GOALS AND INDICATORS FY 1999 Actual FY 2000 Actual FY 2001
   Estimate FY 2002 Estimate Assess proposals, review agency policy and
   guidelines, define and manage network connections, install firewalls
   and secure all dial-in communications to the USDA network. Develop
   policies and guidelines that provide agencies with security standards
   and repeatable procedures that ensure information assets remain safe
   and available. Establish security architecture baseline (percent
   complete) Install firewalls and secure all dial-in communications to
   the USDA network (percent complete) Define USDA Security Architecture
   (percent complete) Implement Configuration Management Controls (percent
   complete) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 25% N/A N/A 50% 50% 25% 25% 100% 100%
   100% 100% Discussion of Annual Performance Goals: The security
   framework is an essential part of information protection. Here, the
   security objective is to design and implement a flexible security
   architecture encompassing all of USDA. This framework will ultimately
   provide a corporate network with a secure backbone. The structural
   design will be adaptable and easily permit the introduction of new
   technology, products, and capabilities. Access protection for open
   systems, closed (limited access) and sensitive systems is based on the
   common premise of "need to know" and no access unless specifically
   granted. The security architecture addresses broad topics and serves to
   build a common level of understanding and a common framework for design
   and implementation. Means and Strategies: The OCIO has earmarked $2.3M
   for the design and implementation of a comprehensive security
   architecture. Prior to contract award, an assessment will be performed
   for industry ``best of breed'' technologies. The design phase will
   determine Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), Virtual Private Network, and
   Shared Secret strategies. A research and development program will be
   included. Once the architecture is built, PKI and VPN solutions will be
   implemented. Based on the highest priority areas of interest, a
   Departmental encryption solution will be determined followed by an
   interim policy. To start this process, the OCIO plans to devise a
   Federal Network Service pilot encryption program to broaden the scope
   beyond its present emphasis on data encryption. Architecture design and
   implementation will require direct and continued involvement of senior
   management to ensure that networks and systems are operated and
   maintained with best (security) practices incorporated at all stages of
   operation. I will be incumbent upon agencies to identify the vast array
   of data and information they currently hold and define service center
   and telecommunications requirements. Verification and Validation:
   OCIO's Cyber Security Program Office's strategy includes aggressive
   oversight reviews of Departmental cyber security controls. This will
   include analysis of system configuration and security device settings,
   as well as policies and procedures. In addition, a Configuration
   Management Program will be implemented to instill
   the??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????-?????????
   ? ????????
