http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=52

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   AFTER-SCHOOL


   After-School Programs

   An issue brief from the Urban Health Initiative of the Robert Wood
   Johnson Foundation reviews the data on the effectiveness of
   after-school programs, the variety of programs and principles for best
   practices. (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader.)

   After-School Resource Fairs

   Afterschool.gov's "Fair in a Box" page. A step-by-step guide to
   planning and implementing an after-school resource fair in your
   community.

   Afterschool.gov

   One stop federal information for afterschool programs, funding and
   resources: transportation, snacks, mentors, recreation, computers, Web
   sites for kids and teens, etc. Sponsored by the Federal Support to
   Communities Initiative with the General Services Administration.

   Afterschool: Prime Time for Juvenile Crime

   A new report by Fight Crime: Invest in Kids summarizes the importance
   and benefits of afterschool programs for youth.

   Community Policing Consortium

   The Community Policing Consortium is a partnership of five of the
   leading police organizations in the United States: International
   Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP), National Organization of Black
   Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE), National Sheriffs' Association
   (NSA), Police Executive Research Forum (PERF), and the Police
   Foundation. These five organizations play a principal role in the
   development of community policing research, training and technical
   assistance, and each is firmly committed to the advancement of this
   policing philosophy. The Community Policing Consortium is administered
   and funded by the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Community
   Oriented Policing Services (COPS).

   Connect for Kids

   Connect for Kids is a virtual encyclopedia of information for adults
   who want to make their communities better places for kids.

   COPS Office Justice Based Afterschool Program Web site

   The Justice Based After-School (JBAS) pilot program demonstrates the
   commitment of the COPS Office to advance community policing through
   collaborative, preventative programs. The primary goal of the JBAS
   pilot program is to develop a preventative approach to juvenile crime
   and victimization--especially in high-crime neighborhoods--in order to
   improve the overall quality of life in these communities. The web site
   is hosted by the COPS Office sponsored Florida Regional Community
   Policing Institute.

   COPS Website highlights SafeCities and After School initiatives

   As part of its mission to advance community policing, the COPS Office
   has collected a wide variety of resources to help you in your efforts
   to implement community policing.

   Creating Dedicated Local Revenue Sources for Out-of-School Time
   Initiative

   This Strategy Brief, (September, 1999), published by The Finance
   Project, provides technical assistance on financing and sustainability
   to out-of-school time and community programs. Contact: The Finance
   Project; Ph: (202) 628-4200. (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader.)

   Keeping Schools Open as Community Learning Centers

   Keeping schools open longer before and after school, and during the
   summer can turn schools into Community Learning Centers. By keeping
   school doors open during non-traditional school hours, the school
   provides students, parents, and the community with access to valuable
   educational resources. A Community Learning Center housed in the
   community school can be a safe after-school and summer haven for
   children, where learning takes place in a building removed from the
   violence, drugs, and lack of supervision of children that permeate some
   communities in America. This guidebook outlines the steps needed to
   successfully convert a school into a community learning center and
   lists resources for further information and assistance.

   Nat. Assn. for Partners in Education

   NAPE's missions is to provide leadership in the formation and growth of
   effective partnerships that ensure success for all students. They focus
   on three core competencies: training and technical assistance, research
   and materials development, and fostering a unique national member
   network. This web site also explains their grassroots network with
   school districts and community leaders.

   National Association of Police Athletic Leagues

   NAPAL or PAL is a non-profit 501C3 organization, organized to prevent
   juvenile crime and violence by providing education, training and
   resources to Police Athletic League Chapters across the country.
   According to NAPAL, the PALs serve more than one and a half million
   youth, ages 5 to 18. The organization has over 300 law enforcement
   agencies servicing over 700 cities and 1,700 facilities throughout the
   United States and Canada.

   Safe and Smart: Making After-School Hours Work for Kids

   The purpose of this report is to present positive research and examples
   illustrating the potential of quality after-school activities to keep
   children safe, out of trouble, and learning. Specifically, it presents
   evidence of success--both empirical and anecdotal--for after-school
   activities; it identifies key components of high-quality programs and
   effective program practices; and it showcases exemplary after-school
   and extended learning models from across the country with promising
   results in our nation's efforts to keep children in school and on
   track.

   Schools Alone Are Not Enough: Why Afterschool Time is Crucial to the
   Success of our Children

   This is a copy of Boston's excellent, comprehensive afterschool
   strategy for the Mayor's 2-6 initiative.

   Tapping TANF Funds for Youth

   This publication describes how and when it is permissible to use TANF
   funds for youth-related activities and services and provides
   illustrations of how TANF funds are being spent on youth. An attachment
   provides information about some proven or promising youth programs
   which could be supported with TANF funds.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
