http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/press/release.cfm?p=06D16AF4-FDFE-4C07-859558270BECC6C3

   Press Office - Attorney General Home Press Office - Picture Press
   Office- Grid Press Office - Search, Sitmap, Contact Us
   Press Office Press Office Public Education Public Protection Criminal
   Law Special Features

   Press Office
       Home

   Press
                                  Releases

                                  Consumer
                                 Advisories

                               Current Issues

                                   Tobacco
                               Litigation Site

                                Commonwealth
                                 vs. Lambert

                                    News
                                  Resources

                                    Years
                                  in Review

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]

      AG Fisher Obtains Preliminary Injunction Against Psychic Reader's
                    Network and Access Resource Services

                      Issued: Friday, January 25, 2002
                            Contact: 717-787-5211

   HARRISBURG Attorney General Mike Fisher today announced that a Cambria
   County Court judge has entered a preliminary injunction order against
   Psychic Reader's Network and its billing agent, Access Resource
   Services. The injunction requires the businesses to cease calling
   Pennsylvania consumers who requested no further contact and to halt
   attempts to collect outstanding bills that consumers are disputing. The
   injunction remains in effect pending the outcome of Fisher's lawsuit
   against the defendants.

   "We're pleased that the court granted our motion for an injunction
   protecting consumers who continue to get calls at home despite their
   repeated requests for the company to stop," Fisher said. "In addition,
   the defendants must immediately stop all billing or debt collection
   activities in cases where consumers said they were erroneously
   charged."

   Fisher's Office in November 2001 sought a preliminary injunction after
   receiving additional consumer complaints that the Florida-based
   defendants were allegedly operating in violation of Pennsylvania's
   Telemarketing Registration Act, Consumer Protection Law, Debt
   Regulations and Fair Credit Extension Uniformity Act. The defendants
   stipulated to the injunction prior to the scheduled hearing. Fisher
   filed a lawsuit in November 2000 accusing the defendants of charging
   and billing consumers up to $4.99 per minute for an advertised "free"
   psychic telephone reading. According to the suit, the defendants
   directed those who called their toll-free-numbers to a phone line that
   charged a per-minute-fee. Consumers said that they were charged between
   $29 and $700 for these so-called "free" calls.

   The suit also claimed that the defendants misrepresented their "free"
   services by:

     Charging callers for the time they were placed on hold before being
   connected to a psychic reader.

     Falsely promising certain callers that they were entitled to free
   gifts and additional free time with a psychic.

     Telling consumers to call a 900 number for a free reading, then
   informing them that if they hung up they would be billed for the call,
   including the "free" reading.

   The lawsuit also accused the defendants of failing to provide adequate
   warning to consumers that their free time had expired and that a
   cost-per-minute charge would be assessed if they chose to stay on the
   line. Consumers told Fisher's Office that they were charged hundreds of
   dollars for calls they never made or believed were free-of-charge.

   Consumers also complained that when they failed to pay the disputed
   charges they received collection notices threatening to turn their
   accounts over to a collection agency. In other cases, consumers said
   they received "Payment Demand Notification" letters for calls that were
   not made from their telephone, were not billed through their local
   telephone company, belonged to someone with the same last name or were
   made after their telephone number was disconnected.

   Fisher's ongoing lawsuit asks the court to require the defendants to:

     Pay restitution to affected consumers.

     Permanently cease violating the state's Consumer Protection Law, Debt
   Regulations, Telemarketing Registration Act and the Fair Credit
   Extension Uniformity Act.

     Pay civil penalties of $1,000 per violation and $3,000 for each
   violation involving a person age 60 or older.

     Forfeit all profits derived as a result of their alleged illegal
   business practices.

   The preliminary injunction order was signed by Cambria County Court
   President Judge Gerard Long.

   # # #

   releases/text/25Jan2002-ag_fisher_obtains_preliminary_injunction_agains
   t_psychic_rea.html
