http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERH/NH117212.HTML

   Issue Date Org. Code    NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE     Part Chap.
   5-26-72            W512             Operations Manual
          H     11

                     FACILITIES PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING

   Table of Contents

   1. Purpose

   2. Definitions

   3. General

   4. Phases of  Planning

   5. Generation of  Facility Requirements

       5.1     Replacement

               5.1.1    Annual Facilities Review
               5.1 .2     Nonintegral Facilities Item

       5.2    New Support

       5.3    Network Expansion

       5.4    General Policy

               5.4.1    Guidelines

               5.4.2    References

               5.4.3    Examples

           5.5     Disposal

   6. The RD&F Five-Year Facilities Plan

           6. 1     Objectives of the Plan

               6.1.1    Combined Planning Effort
               6.1.2     Regional and Headquarters Office-initiated
   Projects
               6.1.3     Integration of Regional and Office Plans into the
   Master Plan
               6.1.4     Budget Documentation

           6.2     Plan Development
           6.3    Planning Period
           6.4    Submission Procedures

   Exhibits

   H-11-1 Definitions of Terms

   H-11-2 Diagram of Planning, Programming, and Budgeting Phases

   H-11-3 Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities Acquisition - Example

   H-11-4 Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities Acquisition - Example

   H -11-5 Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities Acquisition - Example

   1. Purpose. This chapter describes the basic system for planning
   National Weather Service (NWS) facilities. Further, it assigns
   functional responsibilities for accomplishment of facility planning and
   programming. The Facilities Planning and Programming System established
   by this chapter is intended to accomplish the following specific
   objectives:

   a. Provide for timely determination and adequate definition of Weather
   Service facilities requirements and establish priorities to assure that
   these facilities are available to meet scheduled operational needs.

   b. Establish a clear relationship between justifications for facilities
   projects by the Directors of the Regions and Headquarters Offices and
   specific decisions by the Director, National Weather Service.

   c. Establish procedures for the exchange of information on costs,
   fiscal constraints, program impacts, and decisions between the
   engineering and program staffs at Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)
   and the Regions and Headquarters Offices.

   d. Provide for coordination between facilities construction and
   instrumental equipment procurement and installation.

   2. Definitions. Definitions of terms used in this chapter are provided
   in Exhibit H-11-1.

   3. General. The responsibility for initiative and taking the lead in
   (1) planning of NWS activities, and (2) planning for the provision of
   facilities is assigned generally as follows:

   a. The Director, NWS, through the Resources Management Staff, provides
   overall direction and guidance, establishes (or approves) NWS-wide
   priorities, directs actions necessary to effect coordination, and makes
   and disseminates appropriate decisions.

   b. The Directors, Regions and Offices, accomplish activity mission and
   workload planning, justify the need for facilities, and recommend the
   intraregional or office priorities by which such facilities should be
   provided.

   c. The Weather Service Headquarters Offices (OMO, O/H, and O/O) through
   staff divisions, as appropriate, are responsible for reviewing Regional
   Headquarters' proposals for conformity with existing and planned NWS
   programs and recommending deletions, additions, or changes in priority.

   d. The NWS Facilities Review Board, described below, is responsible for
   recommending to the Director, NWS, the total Research, Development, and
   Facilities (RD&F) plan for construction, modernization, and replacement
   of  facilities in order to support the operating personnel of the NWS
   and other approved programs. The Facilities Review Board shall consist
   of the following members:

   (1) Associate Director, Meteorological Operations (OMO), Chairman

   (2) Associate Director, Hydrology (O/H)

   (3) Assistant Director, Oceanography (O/O)

   (4) Chief, Resources Management Staff

   (5) Chief, Engineering Division

   In carrying out its responsibilities, the Board will perform the
   following tasks:

   (1) Recommend to the Director, NWS, the annual submission of the RD&F
   Five-Year Facilities construction plan, taking into account existing
   guidelines, budgetary limitations, other constraints established by the
   Director, NWS, and priority recommendations submitted by Regions and
   Headquarters Offices.

   (2) Advise the Director, NWS, when the guidelines, budgetary
   limitations, and other constraints result in inability to provide
   facilities to the extent that operations are (or will be) seriously
   limited or impeded.

   (3) Make such other recommendations relative to construction and
   modernization of facilities as may be appropriate.

   e. The Engineering Division, WSH, in providing technical support to WSH
   and Regional Headquarters shall:

   (1) Provide advice and technical guidance in station planning and
   engineering, project planning, facilities standards, and design
   criteria. Provide, also, architectural consultation services to Regions
   and Headquarters Offices, and participate, as required, in preparation
   of early designs to assure a coordinated work environment and optimum
   space utilization. This shall not preclude the accomplishment by
   Regions and Headquarters Offices of studies and analyses essential to
   the performance of the assigned missions of their activities, nor the
   performance of responsibilities assigned in paragraph 5 below.

   (2) Provide a technical review of items proposed for inclusion in the
   RD&F Five-Year Facilities Plan, insure that appropriate consideration
   is given to inflationary effects upon cost estimates, and certify the
   validity of initial or revised estimates to the Facilities Review
   Board.

   (3) Assemble the items proposed for inclusion in the RD&F five-year
   Facilities Plan for consideration by the Facilities Review Board.

   (4) Assist the Director, NWS, in the presentation and support of
   facilities construction programs to higher authority and the Congress
   as appropriate.

   f. All WS activities responsible for the alteration, design, and
   development of instrumental equipment and systems shall keep the
   Engineering Division advised of up-to-date criteria and requirements
   for the support of these equipments and systems so that the data may be
   incorporated effectively into the guidelines for Regional Engineering
   Staffs for use in planning, design, and construction of facilities.

   4. Phases of Planning. The phases of planning and responsibilities for
   accomplishment are as follows: (See diagram, Exhibit H-11-2.)

   a. Phase I - Recognition and Identification.

   (1) Description. This phase is a recognition and preliminary
   identification of the probable impact that new concepts or planned
   changes in NWS requirements will have on activities, installations, and
   facilities. Responsible organizations should develop an awareness of
   the nature and scope of these new concepts or changes and, when
   appropriate, report to the Director, NWS, any significant effect they
   may have in the areas of their responsibility. These reports will be
   advisory and will aid the Director in making a decision as to the
   feasibility and need for further analysis and planning. Examples of
   typical requirements or changes which may have an impact on activities
   and facilities are:

   (a) Research and new developments;
   (b) Changing standards, such as modernization, replacement, improved
   habitability, etc;
   (c) Proposals to effect dollar savings;
   (d) Proposals to improve operating efficiency;
   (e) External influences, such as pollution abatement, conservation,
   natural hazards, encroachment, changes in policy, etc.

   (2) Responsibility. Primary responsibility to initiate action is
   assigned to Offices of the NWS Headquarters and Regional Headquarters.

   b. Phase II - Analysis.

   (1) Description. This phase is the study and analysis of support needed
   by the new concepts or planned changes in NWS requirements described in
   Phase I. If the review of the Phase I preliminary data results in a
   decision to proceed with a more detailed analysis, the Director, NWS,
   will direct that such an analysis be made and that a report be
   submitted to the Director providing a recommendation and alternatives
   concerning new or changed tasks to be performed by existing or proposed
   new activities. This report will also indicate any probable requirement
   for new facilities. Upon approval of the recommendation or an
   alternative, planning shall proceed to Phase 111.

   (2) Responsibility. Primary responsibility is the same as Phase I.

   c. Phase III - Installations and Facilities Planning and Construction
   Programming .

   (1) Description. This phase constitutes project planning and the
   subsequent construction programming. Facilities construction items
   shall be defined on WS Form H-18, "RD&F Facilities Item Data," and
   listed on Region and Weather Service Headquarters Office priority
   lists. From these data, construction plans will be formulated for
   submission to and approval by the Director, National Weather Service.
   The RD&F facilities plan shall be based on a period of 5 fiscal years
   to conform with Congressional procedures in budget review and
   programming.

   (2) Responsibility.

   (a) Weather Service Headquarters Offices will define operational
   requirements and technical criteria applicable to the planning, design,
   operation, and maintenance of facilities in their areas of technical
   responsibility. They will also review regional submissions for
   responsiveness to program requirements and priorities, and recommend
   adjustment as may be required.

   (b) The Regional Headquarters operating divisions will apply NWS
   Headquarters guidance to regional programs, and provide basic guidance
   to the engineering staff regarding program requirements, locations,
   priorities, timing, constraints, and other conditions relative h
   engineering support of their activities.

   (c) Regions and Headquarters Offices. WS Forms H-18, facility studies,
   priority lists, and comparative cost analyses shall be initiated or
   updated by the Regions and Headquarters Offices based on guidance
   provided by WSH.

   (d) Engineering Division, WSH. In general, the Engineering Division
   shall exercise lead responsibility for performance of facilities
   planning and engineering. Under the direction of the Director, NWS, the
   Engineering Division shall: coordinate the activities necessary for the
   purpose of determining and recommending the most effective means of
   providing required facilities; prepare instructions and procedures to
   implement NWS policies for the development, documentation, and
   submission of facilities construction programs; validate estimated
   costs for facilities projects; and maintain cognizance of the current
   technical status of all approved and funded RD&F construction projects.

   d. Phase IV - Budgeting and Execution.

   (1) Description. This phase constitutes the submission of
   Director-approved NWS construction programs to NOAA, DOC, OMB, and the-
   Congress, and subsequent execution of authorized and funded programs.

   (2) Responsibility. The Director is the construction program sponsor.
   The Resources Management Staff (RMS), the Engineering Division, and
   others as appropriate shall assist the Director in the submission,
   presentation, and support of the construction programs. Subsequent to
   authorization and funding, RMS shall be responsible for the allocation,
   distribution, and control of the funds, and the Engineering Division
   shall coordinate the planning, design, construction of facilities, and
   the installation of technical equipment.

   5. Generation of Facility Requirements. A facility requirement may be
   generated by any of the following:

   a. Need for replacement,
   b. New support requirements, or
   c. Network expansion.

   5.1     Replacement. Replacement is concerned with the procurement of
   new or improved facilities, designed to serve the same purpose, and to
   do so at essentially the same site. This includes the procurement by
   lease or purchase of new facilities (to replace deteriorated or
   obsolete facilities) and the major alteration and/or rehabilitation of
   existing facilities. All buildings, structures, and certain
   noninstrumental equipment (such as emergency electric power generators
   and hydrogen generators) are included in this category.

   5.1.1 Annual Facilities Review. As part of each Budget/Planning Cycle,
   program leaders in WSH will review annually all equipment in the WS
   inventory to determine whether or not a system's output will continue
   to be required. (See WSOM Chapter A-36.) The facilities required for
   continued support of the equipment will then be reviewed for
   replacement eligibility.

   5.1.2 Nonintegral Facilities Items. Certain items not exclusively
   related to a single instrumental equipment system, such as housing,
   office quarters, and engine generators, will also be reviewed annually
   and evaluated for retention or replacement in accordance with these
   procedures.

   5.2    New Support. New Support is basically concerned with new
   facilities required for support of existing programs, as opposed to new
   facilities required in direct association with new program equipment
   installation included in network expansion as described in paragraph
   5.3 below. It includes such items as construction of new WSFO's and new
   WSO's not having radar or upper air programs, relocation of existing
   radar or upper air equipment to a new site for the purpose of improving
   network spacing or completing network plans, the construction of new
   auxiliary buildings (warehouses, garages, etc.), the construction of
   new family housing, and the procurement of hydrogen generators and
   emergency power systems.

   5.3 Network Expansion. Network expansion is concerned primarily with
   network expansion under the general guidelines of existing federal or
   internal plans. Included is the establishment of new radar or upper air
   observation sites, or the addition of these or other equipment items to
   existing observing sites or service offices. Also included in this
   category is the construction of special purpose space (observatories,
   inflation shelters, etc.) incident to the installation of major
   equipment items when the special purpose space is necessary to the
   operation of the equipment. Administrative procedures for planning and
   programming network expansion related facilities are fully described in
   Chapter H-30, "Equipment Planning and Programming. " However, the forms
   and procedures established by this chapter will also be used to
   document the costs and provide justification for special purpose
   facilities that are incident to network expansion items.

   5.4 General Policy. Weather Service programs for the acquisition of
   facilities (whether by new procurement, replacement, or improvement of
   existing facilities) are based on the future need for facilities
   support for each weather equipment system or activity. Economy is one
   of the basic factors used in making all decisions regarding such
   actions. Facilities are to be obtained by the least expensive method
   that will satisfy the minimum operational needs. The following
   alternatives will be considered in deciding the means for obtaining
   required facilities:

   a. Alteration or rehabilitation of the existing facility,

   b. Acquisition of excess property from other agencies,

   c. Procurement of a new facility, or

   d. Lease of a new facility.

   The most economical means for acquiring a facility will be determined
   by which of the above alternatives results in the least annual cost.
   Comparative cost analyses should include such cost items as
   procurement, installation, maintenance and operation, relocation,
   capitalization and amortization over a reasonable period of time,
   disposal, salvage or resale value, and the S&E impact (e.g., more or
   fewer Personnel required, lease cost increases, etc.).

   5.4.1 Guidelines. The following general guidelines will be considered
   in developing and recording facilities acquisition decisions.

   a. Rehabilitation Method is recommended when:

   (1) The local operational needs of the NWS can be met by continued use
   of this facility at this location, and

   (2) The annual cost of retention including the cost of alteration and
   rehabilitation is less than the cost of replacement.

   b. Purchase Method is recommended when:

   (1) A comparative cost analysis of alternative methods of acquisition
   indicates that a cost advantage will accrue over the anticipated useful
   life of the facility, or

   (2) The capabilities of the facility will continue h be needed and will
   be sufficient to satisfy the system requirements, current and
   projected, for a period beyond which the purchase method begins to
   provide a cost advantage (The possibility that future technological
   advances will render the selected facility comparatively obsolete
   before the cost advantage point is reached should not rule out purchase
   if the selected facility is expected to be able to satisfy the system
   requirement economically.), or

   (3) No other suitable alternatives are available.

   c. Lease Method is recommended when:

   (1) It is necessary or advantageous to proceed with the acquisition of
   facilities, and

   (2) It has been established conclusively that purchase is not more

   advantageous.

   COMMERCE IMAGE . See Exhibits H-11-3, H-11-4, and H-11-5 for examples
   of the use of the foregoing procedures.

   5.5 Disposal. Facilities which have been replaced will be disposed of
   in accordance with the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR).
   It would be self-defeating to replace an expensive-to-maintain,
   obsolescent facility with a new one and then retain the old facility.
   In no instance will a replaced facility be employed in program
   expansion in the Weather Service without specific approval of the
   Director, National Weather Service. Requests for such approval will
   include a reference to this paragraph.

   6. The RD&F Five-Year Facilities Plan. The RD&F Five-Year Facilities
   Plan provides a long-range planning document for the procurement,
   replacement, and improvement of NWS facilities, as defined in
   paragraphs 5.1, "Replacement," and 5.2, "New Support," above.
   Congressional reviews of the proposed NWS budget are founded on a
   five-year projection of NWS plans and programs, and the Facilities Plan
   is designed to meet this five-year requirement.

   6.1 Objectives of the Plan. The RD&F Five-Year Facilities Plan has the
   following objectives:

   a. To provide a means for coordinating the planning of National Weather
   Service RD&F facilities projects with operational requirements by
   involving the operating and engineering groups in a combined planning
   effort; to determine the relative priorities of the various projects
   and establish long-range acquisition schedules;

   b. To provide a formalized means for the Regions and Headquarters
   Offices to initiate projects to meet their special requirements;

   c. To coordinate and integrate the plans of Regions and Headquarters
   Offices into the NWS master plan; and

   d. To provide documented data input for budget preparation-and
   justification.

   6.1.1 Combined Planning Effort. Effective facilities planning requires
   the combined effort of both the prospective users of the facility and
   the engineers. The operating groups must define the applicable
   operational requirements and technical criteria involved in relation to
   their own plans and programs. Through joint planning, the engineering
   staff can then ascertain the nature and extent of the facilities
   required to support the operating needs. A client/consultant
   relationship will permit full discussion of problem areas, and will
   help assure that the final design satisfies operational and personnel
   requirements.

   6.1.2 Regional and Headquarters Office-initiated Projects. Broad
   program requirements such as expansion of the radar or the upper air
   networks are validated by the Headquarters, and the requirement imposed
   upon the Regions and Offices for new facilities of these types is
   generally recognized. There are other projects such as station moves or
   major rehabilitations which are dictated by field conditions of which
   only the Region or Office has knowledge. The RD&F Five-Year Facilities
   Plan provides each Region and Office with the opportunity to present to
   the Headquarters specific projects which are deemed essential, or
   valuable, to their operations. Care must be taken so that the Plan is
   not used for projects that are "nice-to-have" or to
   "get-them-on-the-record." This practice will work only to the detriment
   of valid projects, with the result that a lot of hard work of planning
   and preparation may be wasted.

   6.1.3 Integration of Regional and Office Plans into the Master Plan.
   The technology of weather-related programs is becoming more complex and
   sophisticated. New programs are being developed, some old ones are
   being expanded or modified, and others are being phased out. Facilities
   have to be provided to accommodate these changes. This transition and
   growth must have direction and unity of purpose, and it is the
   responsibility of the NWS Headquarters to review the plans of Regions
   and Offices and develop them into a master plan for orderly progress.
   The master plan is formulated to meet the overall requirements of the
   National Weather Service as well as the individual needs of the Regions
   and Offices.

   6.1.4 Budget Documentation. An RD&F project must be presented in the
   NWS budget as an individual item or as one of a group of related items.
   At every level of budgetary review, projects are subjected to critical
   scrutiny. Each one must compete with all others and questionable items
   are readily deleted. Only those with a sound justification have a
   chance for approval. It is important that a project be based on the
   most complete and accurate information available and presented in a
   precise and straightforward manner. A properly prepared WS Form H-18,
   along with other pertinent supporting data, will provide the
   documentation essential to project approval .

   6.2 Plan Development. Changes in facility requirements may be caused by
   many factors such as forced moves, changes in operational programs,
   station relocation, and congressional or administrative actions.
   Whatever the origin of the changes might be, it is the responsibility
   of the Regional or Office Director to determine what facilities are
   required to carry out his assigned mission and tasks and to initiate
   project requests to meet these requirements. Planning of RD&F
   facilities projects should be as long range as practicable to permit
   development of a balanced, progressive, and comprehensive Five-Year
   Facilities Plan. Such long-range planning helps avoid "crash" projects
   and offers more flexibility to program adjustments. The Engineering
   Division, WSH, will provide engineering consultation and technical
   assistance to Headquarters Offices as required for the development of
   facilities projects.

   6.3 Planning Period. The planning period of the RD8`F Five-Year
   Facilities Plan will cover the 5 fiscal years following the upcoming
   Budget Year. This will allow 12 to 18 months to process the program
   through the administration budget cycle before the Presidential Budget
   is submitted to the Congress during its opening session in January.

   6.4 Submission Procedures. The RD&F Five-Year Facilities Plan shall be
   prepared and submitted annually in accordance with the procedures
   presented in Engineering Handbook No. 3, Part 2, "RD&F Facilities
   Planning and Programming."


                            DEFINITIONS OF TERMS

   1. ACTIVITY

   A unit of the NWS, of distinct identity, established under a
   meteorologist or official in charge. It includes organizational
   adjuncts established and located at remote areas to carry out assigned
   missions.

   2. FACILITY

   A separate, individual building, structure or other item of real
   property, including land; an item of facilities equipment (e.g.,
   emergency electric power generators and hydrogen generators); or a
   functional grouping of a number of these items (e.g., radar facility).

   3.    FACILITY REQUIREMENT

   The facilities required by an activity to perform its mission, tasks,
   and functions, and to support assigned personnel.

   4. FACILITIES PLANNING

   The determination of the facility requirement for individual activities
   of the NWS, the evaluation of the adequacy of existing real property to
   satisfy these requirements, the determination of facility deficiencies
   or excesses, the provision for maximum utilization of existing
   facilities, the translation of deficiencies into requirements for
   construction (including the initiation of budget requests), and the
   initiation of disposal action on excess properties.

   5. FACILITIES ITEM

   A specific request for the procurement, replacement, or improvement of
   a facility which is proposed for inclusion in the RD&F Five-Year
   Facilities Plan. The term "Item" is used in lieu of the more
   descriptive "Project" to avoid confusion with the Project Codes used in
   the NOAA Program Structure.

   6. FACILITIES PROGRAM

   The end product of Facilities Planning. It is a combination of
   facilities items, arranged in order of priority, which have been
   certified by the Director, National Weather Service, as essential to
   meet the needs and objectives of the National Weather Service, and for
   which funds have been provided through the budget process or by
   reprogramming.

   7. FACILITIES ENGINEERING

   This term is used generically to include all disciplines required in
   the planning, design, construction, maintenance, alteration, operation,
   and disposal of facilities. It includes disciplines other than
   engineering, such as architecture, landscaping, conservation, pollution
   control, and forestry. Normally, it does not include electronics
   engineering matters

                    Exhibit H-11-1: Definitions of Terms
     __________________________________________________________________

   (a)New requirement Approve require
   ments.

   Define by NOAA

   Program and sub-Program.
   Alternative soutions. Select alternative. Facility studies, RD&F
   Facility Item Data
   WS Form H-18), Priority List, and annual RD&F Five-Year Plan. Item
   analysis and preparation of tentative NWS RD&F Five-Year Facilities
   Plan.   Budget processing
   Allocation, distribution, and control of funds.
   Coordinate planning, design, and construction of facilities
   (b) Changing

   standards
     Recommendations. Approve workloads.   Facilities Review Board Plans
   and specifications.
   (c) Dollar saving   Mission, tasks, functions, and workload planning.
   Approve concept of new requirements.   Final annual Rd&F Five-Year
   Facilities Plan with recommendations to the Director, NWS. Construction
   acquisition.
   Equipment reinstallation
   (d) Operating efficiency         Director, NWS
   (e) External influence         Final Plan approval, Budget submission
   and support
     __________________________________________________________________


      REPLACE OFFICE QUARTERS FOR WSO at Showmee, Missourio.

      a. Alteration or Rehabilitation of Existing Facility*

          The WSO is in rented space in a downtown office building where we
      pay $2.20 per square foot in a crowded, run-down building. The owner
      will not even discuss enlarging or improving the space so there is no
      option to improve existing facilities.

      b. Acquisition of Excess Property from Other Agencies.

      There is no excess Federal property suitable for the purpose.

      c. Procurement of New Facility.

      Estimated costs:

      1 acre land at $2,000/acre


   $2,000

      Office building, 1,700 SF at $25/SF


     42,500

      (20-year permanent-type construction)

      Roads, walks, utilities, etc.


   7,000

      Relocation costs of sensors, communications,
      etc., are the same as for Relocation into leased
      space. (cost standoff)


   0

      TOTAL cost of procurement


     $51,500

      Annual cost of Capital Recovery (CR)


     $4,675*

      Annual cost of maintenance


   1,000

      Annual cost of utilities


      2,000

      TOTAL annual cost of Government ownership


   $7,675

   Exhibit H-11-3 (1 of 2): Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities
   Acquisition - Example 1

      d. Lease of Equivalent New Facility,

        1,700 SF Office Space at $4/SF/yr


   $ 6,800

   CONCLUSION: Annual costs favor the leasing of space rather than
   constructing a Government-owned facility.

   * Annual Cost of Capital Recovery (CR) is the annual payment required
   to recover an investment of "P" dollars, in "n" years, at "i" interest.

                                                i (1 + i)^n
                      CR = P   _________________ (1 + i)^n - 1

                          P = Cost of Construction of the Facility


                                                                   $51,500

                          i = Current Rate of Interest the Government
                                   Must pay on borrowed money . Say


                                                                6.5%/annum

   n = Useful life of the Facility


                                                                  20 years

     065 (1 + .065)^20
     CR = 51,500 (1 + .065)^20 -1
     .065 x 3.52
     = 51,500 3.52.-1
     .2288
     = 51,500 2.52 =


                                                                    $4,675




   Exhibit H-11-3 (2 of 2): Comparative Cost Analysisf or Facilities
   Acquisition - Example 1

      REHABILITATE OFFICE QUARTERS FOR WSO at Broadwater, Mississippi.

      a. Alteration or Rehabilitation of Existing Facility.

      Since 1962, the WSO has been located in substandard leased space
      ($2.60/SF) in a separate building owned by the city of Broadwater at
      the municipal airport. The collocated radar and upper air sites are in
      excellent grid positions and are in an uncluttered location providing
      an optimum surface observation point, but the office space is too small
      for the present operational program and assigned shift. The city is
      agreeable to the proposed enlargement and upgrading, provided the costs
      can be amortized within a reasonable time.

      b. Acquisition of Excess Property from Other Agencies,

      There is no excess Federal property suitable for the purpose.

      c. Rehabilitation of Existing Facility Performed by Owner.

      Estimated costs

      Land - existing site ample for NWS needs


   $ 0

      Addition to office quarters,

      800 SF at $48/SF


   38,400

      Alteration to existing office,

      1,400 SF at $10/SF


   14,000

      Parking - 1,000 SY at $3/SY


   3,000

      Relocation of sensors, communications,

      cables, and related structures


   0

      TOTAL cost of upgrading


   $55,400

   Exhibit H-11-4 (1 of 2): Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities
   Acquisition - Example 2

      Annual cost of maintenance (included in rent)


   $ 0

      Annual cost of utilities


   1,400

      Annual cost of rental for enlarged quarters
      2,200 SF at $5/SF/yr


   11,000

      TOTAL annual cost of rented space
         WSO, Broadwater, Mississippi


   $12,400

      d. Procurement of New Facility:

      Estimated costs:

      10 acres land at $2,500/acre


   $ 25,000

      Office building, 2,200 SF at $30 SF


   66,000

      Roads, walk, parking, utilities, etc.


   8,000

      Relocation of sensors, communications cables, and related structures 1


   100,000

      TOTAL cost of procurement


   $199 000

      Annual cost of Capital Recovery (CR) (20 yrs. at 6.5%)*


   $18,050

      Annual cost of maintenance


   1,500

      Annual cost of utilities


   3,000

      TOTAL annual cost of Government ownership


   $22,550

      CONCLUSION: Annual costs favor the leasing of enlarged and upgraded
      quarters rather than construction of a Government-owned facility.

      * See sample computation - Exhibit H-11-3

   Exhibit H-11-4 (2 of 2): Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities
   Acquisition - Example 2



      RELOCATE WSFO AND OBSERVATION OFFICE at municipal airport, Glenhaven,
      New York.

      a. Alteration or Rehabilitation of Existing Facility.

      The WSFO and airport observation office are presently located in a
      hangar building owned by Blue skyways, Inc. Our lease will expire on
      June 30, 1974, and the owner has advised that it will not be renewed.
      Relocation from the existing facilities is, therefore, necessary.

      b. Acquisition of Excess Property from Other Agencies.

      There is no excess Federal property suitable for the purpose.

      c. Procurement of New Facility.

      The city of Glenhaven has offered to grant, at no cost to the U.S.
      Government, one acre of land at the municipal airport for construction
      of an NWS Office Building. Water, sewer, and electric service would be
      readily available on the site. A breakdown of estimated costs for
      construction of a new building for the WSFO and airport observation
      unit is as follows:

      1 acre of land


   $ 0

      Office building, 3,500 SF at $45/SF


   157,500

      (20-year permanent-type construction)

      Roads, walks, utilities, etc.


   20,000

      Relocation of sensors, communications, etc., are the same as for
      relocation into leased space. (cost standoff)

      Technical Services


   15,000

      TOTAL cost of procurement


   $192,500

   Exhibit H-11-5 (1 of 2): Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities
   Acquisition - Example 3

      Annual cost of Capital Recovery (CR) (20 years at 6.5%)*


   $17,500

      Annual cost of maintenance


   4, 000

      Annual cost of utilities


   6,000

      TOTAL annual cost of Government ownership


   $27,500

      d. Lease of New Facilities.

      Suitable office space for the WSFO may be leased in Glenhaven on a
      5-yea basis with option of renewal. It will be necessary, however, to
      maintain an observation unit at the airport. The city will agree to
      provide 1,000 square feet of suitable space for this unit in the air
      terminal at a lease cost of $1 per year. The splitting of the two
      offices will require an increase in staffing of five meteorological
      technicians

      Annual costs:

      3,000 SF office space at $4/SF/yr for WSFO
      (Includes services and utilities)


   $12,000

      1,000 SF office space at $1/yr for WSO


   1

      Services at $1/SF/yr


   1,000

      Utilities


   2,000

      Increase in staffing - 5 met techs at $15,000


   75,000

      TOTAL annual cost for leasing


   $90,001

      CONCLUSION: Because of the considerably high cost of additional
      staffing, the construction of an NWS-owned combined office is the most
      economical means of obtaining required facilities.

      See sample computation - Exhibit H-11-3

   Exhibit H-11-5 (2 of 2): Comparative Cost Analysis for Facilities
   Acquisition - Example 3


   WSOM Issuance
   72-125-26-72
