http://ffas.usda.gov/web.html

   spacer
   FAS online
   FAS online Image
   FAS Text Search | Tips   ________________ Image
   Image Search Image
   Image FAS online
   Web Information
   Image
   Image Image
   Image Browser Compatibility
   Image
   Image Image
   Image FOIA Requests
   Image
   Image Image
   Image EEO Statement
   Image
   Image Image
   Image Privacy/Security
   Image
   Image
   Back to FAS Home Image
   Text bullet Browser Compatibility
   The FAS website is designed to work with the following internet
   browsers:
     * Netscape Navigator/Communicator
       versions 2.0 and higher
     * Microsoft Internet Explorer
       versions 3.0 and higher

   All new configurations and applications are tested on these browsers.
   Other internet browsers may or may not work properly. Support for other
   browsers is not provided.
   Image NOTE: America OnLine now uses Microsoft IE as the primary browser
   in its software suite. You many need to upgrade your AOL browser to use
   some features of this site.
   Text bullet Freedom of Information Act Request
   FAS records are public except for records in nine categories which are
   specifically exempted from disclosure by the Freedom of Information
   Act.
   Text bullet USDA Nondiscrimination Statement
   Image The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits
   discrimination in all its programs and activities on the basis of race,
   color, national origin, sex, religion, age, disability, political
   beliefs, sexual orientation, and marital or family status. (Not all
   prohibited bases apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who
   require alternative means for communication of program information
   (Braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET
   Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TDD).
   To file a complaint of discrimination write USDA, Director, Office of
   Civil Rights, Room 326-W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence
   Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice or
   TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.
   Text bullet Privacy/Security Notice
    1. The FAS Website is provided as a public service by the Information
       Division and the FSA Information Technology Services Division.
    2. Information presented on the FAS Website is considered public
       information and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate
       byline/photo/image credits is requested.
    3. For site management, information is collected for statistical
       purposes. This government computer system uses software programs to
       create summary statistics, which are used for such purposes as
       assessing what information is of most and least interest,
       determining technical design specifications, and identifying system
       performance or problem areas.
    4. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
       available to all users, this government computer system employs
       software programs to monitor network traffic to identify
       unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise
       cause damage.
    5. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other
       attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
       habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are
       scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National
       Archives and Records Administration General Schedule 20.
    6. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information
       on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under
       the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National
       Information Infrastructure Protection Act.
    7. If you have any questions or comments about the information
       presented here, please forward them to kaup@fas.usda.gov.

   Image
   Questions? Comments? Contact us.
   This page last updated: Wednesday, January 30, 2002 09:44:17 AM
