http://travel.state.gov/vo_faq.html

                             Department of State
                         Bureau of Consular Affairs

                         Frequently Asked Questions
                                    Visas

    1. I'm an American citizen traveling to another country. Where do I
       get my visa?
    2. Who can I call for information on visa cases and what can they do
       about specific visa cases?
    3. When should I call the Immigration and Naturalization Service?
    4. What is an advisory opinion?
    5. What about visa denials? What can Visa Services in Washington do?
    6. What if I have sent correspondence to a foreign service post and
       have not received a response?
    7. What is the difference between an immigrant and a nonimmigrant
       visa?
    8. How can an alien become a legal permanent resident or green card
       holder?
    9. What is the difference between an immediate relative petition and a
       preference petition?
   10. What is the process for obtaining an immigrant visa?
   11. What documents are required for the immigrant visa interview?
   12. What foreign service post handles approved immigrant visa petitions
       for persons who last resided in a country where there is no
       American consular representation?
   13. What is the waiting time for an immigrant visa after the National
       Visa Center or the foreign service post receives the approved
       petition?
   14. What is a priority date?
   15. How can I get the Visa Bulletin?
   16. How does an applicant obtain police certificates?
   17. What fees are involved in obtaining an immigrant visa?
   18. How long is an immigrant visa valid? What if the applicant must
       delay arrival in the U.S.?
   19. What documentation is required of a child born outside the U.S. of
       legal permanent residents?
   20. The legal permanent resident parents left the child abroad with
       family members and returned to the U.S. They now wish to bring the
       child to the U.S. What must they do?
   21. Can a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident file a petition at
       any foreign service post for the immigration of a relative?
   22. What must be done to invite someone for a visit to the United
       States?
   23. What does an applicant need for a visitor visa?
   24. How does an alien obtain a student visa?
   25. How does an alien in the U.S. change visa status?
   26. How does an alien extend the period of time allowed to remain in
       the U.S.?
   27. Can the holder of an expired nonimmigrant visa, such as an "I"
       journalist visa, in the U.S. be issued another nonimmigrant visa
       before leaving the U.S. for a temporary absence?
   28. What is necessary for an alien to enter the U.S. to marry a U.S.
       citizen?
   29. Does the fiance(e) visa automatically change to an alien
       registration card (green card)?
   30. How can an applicant learn why he/she was denied a visa at a post
       overseas?
   31. What can an applicant do if he/she has been denied? Can he/she
       appeal?
   32. How do I get forms?
   33. How can I enter the visa or green card lottery?
   34. How do I become a U.S. citizen?
   35. I lost my "green card." What should I do?

     * Q: Who can I call for information on visa cases and what can they
       do about specific visa cases?

   A: You can call the Visa Services' Public Inquiries Branch at
   202-663-1225. This number has recorded information with an option to
   speak with during most business hours. If you wish to inquire about an
   immigrant visa petition that has already been approved by the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), you may wish to contact
   the National Visa Center (NVC) at 603-334-0700.

     * Q: When should I call the Immigration and Naturalization Service?

   A: Once an individual is in the United States, they come under the
   jurisdiction of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), U.S.
   Department of Justice.

     * Q: What is an advisory opinion?

   A: It is an opinion rendered by Visa Services when a post has a
   question about the interpretation of immigration law and needs the
   State Department to make a determination on a point of that law.

     * Q: What about visa denials? What can Visa Services in Washington
       do?

   A: Visa Services does not exercise authority to change consular
   officers decision on visa applications, but they can assist in finding
   out the status of an application. They can also suggest several
   different methods for getting the information addresses for letters,
   telexes, faxes, and, in emergency situations, cables. If you have some
   facts on an individual case, they can frequently explain the legal
   grounds for refusal and any possible avenues of relief, for example.

     * Q: What if I have sent correspondence to a foreign service post and
       have not received a response?

   A: Visa Services may be able to suggest other channels.

     * Q: What is the difference between an immigrant and a nonimmigrant
       visa?

   A: An immigrant visa is the visa issued to persons wishing to live
   permanently in the United States. A nonimmigrant visa is the visa
   issued to persons with permanent residence outside the U.S. but who
   wish to be in the U.S. on a temporary basis, for example, tourism,
   medical treatment, business, temporary work, or study.

     * Q: How can an alien become a legal permanent resident or green card
       holder?

   A: To become a legal permanent resident, an alien must first be
   admitted as an immigrant. There are two basic methods for obtaining an
   immigrant visa: 1) through family relationship with a U.S. citizen or
   legal permanent resident, or 2) through employment. Specific
   information is available from the Immigration and Naturalization
   Service.

     * Q: What is the difference between an immediate relative petition
       and a preference petition?

   A: An immediate relative petition can be filed by a U.S. citizen on
   behalf of a spouse, parent, or child. A preference petition is filed by
   a U.S. citizen on behalf of a son or daughter, by a legal permanent
   resident on behalf of a spouse, son or daughter, or child, or by an
   employer on behalf of an employee.

     * Q: What is the process for obtaining an immigrant visa?

   A: An alien must be sponsored by a relative or employer who files the
   appropriate petition with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
   (INS). INS approves the petition, it is forwarded to the National Visa
   Center in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. The National Visa Center then
   informs the beneficiary that an approved petition has been received and
   provides instructions on next steps. As soon as a visa number is
   available on a preference petition or as soon as INS approves an
   immediate relative petition, the National Visa Center sends the
   beneficiary instructions on the next steps to take.

     * Q: What documents are required for the immigrant visa interview?

   A: Requirements may differ slightly from post to post, but the basic
   requirements include: a passport, three photographs, birth and police
   certificates, marriage, divorce, or death certificates, proof of
   financial support, and medical examination. More detailed information
   would have to come from the National Visa Center or the processing
   post.

     * Q: What foreign service post handles approved immigrant visa
       petitions for persons who last resided in a country where there is
       no American consular representation?

   A: Persons from countries that do not have an American embassy or
   consulate are considered "homeless" because they cannot return to their
   home country to be interviewed for the immigrant visa. When the
   National Visa Center receives an immigrant visa approved petition on a
   "homeless" case, it assigns the case to an embassy or consulate that
   has been determined is capable of handling the additional workload. The
   petitioner or beneficiary will be informed by the National Visa Center
   of the post that was chosen.

     * Q: What is the waiting time for an immigrant visa after the
       National Visa Center or the foreign service post receives the
       approved petition?

   A: Several factors influence how long the process may take. Immediate
   relative visas are not numerically limited by statute so, workload
   permitting, the post may begin processing the approved petition upon
   receipt. Preference visas are numerically limited; therefore, the post
   must wait until the priority date on the petition is available before
   starting to process the case. The major reason for lengthy waits, i.e.
   priority dates that are months or several years earlier than your
   inquiry, is the fact that each year many more people apply for
   immigrant visas than can be satisfied under the annual numerical limit
   set by law for preference cases. Certain categories, such as the family
   fourth preference, are heavily oversubscribed.

     * Q: What is a priority date?

   A: The priority date, in the case of a relative immigrant visa
   petition, is the date the petition was filed. In the case of an
   employer-sponsored petition, the priority date is the date the labor
   certification was filed with the Department of Labor. The Visa Bulletin
   -- under the Visa Services homepage -- gives the changes in
   availability of priority dates. (See question below for more
   information.)

     * Q: How can I get the Visa Bulletin?

   A: The Visa Bulletin is available under the Visa Services home page.
   You may also dial 202-647-3000 from your fax machine. The document
   number is 1038.

     * Q: How does an applicant obtain police certificates?

   A: Each country has its own requirements for obtaining police
   certificates or clearances. Specific information is available from the
   U.S. consulate processing the case.

     * Q: What fees are involved in obtaining an immigrant visa?

   A: The cost of an immigrant visa is $260 (U.S.) for application and $65
   (U.S.) for issuance per person, regardless of age. There may also be
   fees to obtain required documents, for certifying or notarizing
   documents, and for the medical examination. The cost of the immigrant
   visa itself remains constant, but other fees vary from post to post.
   The applicant will be informed of fees by the processing post. The fees
   are payable in U.S. and equivalent local currency. Cash is acceptable
   at all posts; other methods of payment must be determined by the
   processing post.

     * Q: How long is an immigrant visa valid? What if the applicant must
       delay arrival in the U.S.?

   A: The consul may issue an immigrant visa with a maximum validity of
   six months. If an applicant must delay travel to the U.S. beyond six
   months, he/she should contact the U.S. consulate and arrange to have
   the interview scheduled closer to his/her possible departure. If an
   immigrant visa has already been issued and circumstances force the
   alien to remain abroad longer, the applicant should contact the U.S.
   consulate and request an extension of the immigrant visas validity. If
   the validity of an immigrant visa expires, a new one may be issued upon
   payment of the statutory application and issuance fees (U.S. $325).

     * Q: What documentation is required of a child born outside the U.S.
       of legal permanent residents?

   A: A child born abroad of legal permanent resident parents may enter
   the U.S. without a visa provided the child is accompanied by a parent
   upon that parents initial return to the U.S. within two years of the
   childs birth with documentation showing the parent-child relationship.

     * Q: The legal permanent resident parents left the child abroad with
       family members and returned to the U.S. They now wish to bring the
       child to the U.S. What must they do?

   A: The child must have an immigrant visa to enter the U.S. The legal
   permanent resident parent(s) must file a preference petition with the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service.

     * Q: Can a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident file apetition at
       any foreign service post for the immigration of a relative?

   A: Authority to accept a petition rests solely with the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service (INS). INS has determined that petitions must be
   filed in the petitioners place of residence. Therefore, if the
   petitioner resides in the U S., the petitioner must file at his/ her
   local INS office; if the petitioner resides abroad, the petitioner must
   file at the U.S. embassy or consulate that has jurisdiction.

     * Q: What must be done to invite someone for a visit to the United
       States?

   A: A guest of a U.S. host can be helped by sending him/her a letter of
   invitation. The letter should include the invitees name, reason for
   visit, period of stay in the U.S., and method of payment of expenses.
   If the guest is paying his/her own expenses, he/she must be prepared to
   show the consular officer that sufficient funds are available for the
   trip. If the American host is paying the expenses, an affidavit of
   support may be included.

     * Q : What does an applicant need for a visitor visa?

   A: An applicant must have a passport, valid for six months beyond
   duration of the proposed visit, one passport-size photograph, and proof
   of social, economic, professional or other compelling ties to a
   residence outside the United States to which he/she will be expected to
   return after the visit. See further information on visitor visas under
   the Visa Services home page.

     * Q: How does an alien obtain a student visa?

   A: The requirements are generally the same as for a visitor visa.
   However, in addition to the passport, photo, and proof of ties abroad,
   the applicant must also have an I-20 form issued by the school he/she
   wishes too attend. The I-20 form is proof that the applicant has been
   accepted for a program of study at an accredited institution. See
   further information on student visas under the Visa Services home page.

     * Q: How does an alien in the U.S. change visa status?

   A: Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) authorizes changes of
   status when an alien is in the U.S. The local INS office should be
   contacted.

     * Q: How does an alien extend the period of time allowed to remain in
       the U.S.?

   A: He/she should apply at the local Immigration and Naturalization
   Service office.

     * Q: Can the holder of an expired nonimmigrant visa, such as an "I"
       journalist visa, in the U.S. be issued another nonimmigrant visa
       before leaving the U.S. for a temporary absence?

   A: In certain circumstances, yes. Visa Services does reissue A, E, G,
   H, L, and I visas, so long as there is the same type visa stamp already
   in the passport, and the date of expiration is not more than one year
   earlier. More information is available under the Visa Services home
   page.

     * Q: What is necessary for an alien to enter the U.S. To marry a U.S.
       citizen?

   A: The U.S. citizen must file a fiance(e) petition, Form I-129F, with
   the local Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). The INS will
   forward the approved petition to a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad.
   The post will then contact the alien with information and eventually
   schedule an interview for a fiance(e) visa. The alien has 90 days from
   entry into the U.S. in which to marry the U.S. citizen.

     * Q: Does the fiance(e) visa automatically change to an alien
       registration card (green card)?

   A: No. After the marriage takes place, the U.S. citizen must contact
   Immigration and Naturalization Service to change the alien spouses
   status to legal permanent resident. This information is given to the
   alien fiance(e) upon his/her entry to the U.S.

     * Q: How can an applicant learn why he/she was denied a visa at a
       post overseas?

   A: An applicant is always told the reason for denial, orally or in
   writing. If an applicant does not understand the reason for denial, or
   wishes to offer further evidence to overcome the denial, he/she should
   contact the post where the application was made to determine that posts
   reapplication policy.

     * Q: What can an applicant do if he/she has been denied? Can he/she
       appeal?

   A: You should know that all denials are reviewed by a senior consular
   officer. There is no "appeal" process per se on visa denials, but an
   applicant can reapply for a nonimmigrant visa if he/she can present new
   evidence to overcome the previous grounds for refusal. Some high-volume
   posts require that a significant period of time (six months to one
   year) elapse before reapplication with new qualifying evidence.

     * Q: How do I get forms?

   A: If the form begins with the letter "I," it is an Immigration and
   Naturalization Service (INS) form. Check the INS web site at
   http://www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/index.htm.

   If you are looking for a form OF-156 (Nonimmigrant Visa Application),
   you may download it from the Visa Services home page or call the
   autofax at 202-647-3000.

   If you have questions about immigrant visa packets 3 or 4, you need to
   call the National Visa Center at 603-334-0700, or check NVC under the
   Visa Services home page.

     * Q: How can I enter the visa or green card lottery?

   A: The Visa Office has set up a hotline at 202-331-7199 with recorded
   information on the visa lottery. Winners are notified by the National
   Visa Center. Those who are not notified can assume they were not
   selected and can re-enter the following year.

     * Q: How do I become a U.S. citizen?

   A: You need to call the INS about the examination and the
   naturalization process.

     * Q: I lost my "green card." What should I do?

   A: You need to call the INS who issues green cards to legal permanent
   residents.

     * Q: I'm an American citizen traveling to another country. Where do I
       get my visa?

   A: From the embassy or consulate of the country you are planning to
   visit. The booklet, Foreign Entry Requirements has information on
   visa/entry requirements, embassy and consulate addresses, and telephone
   numbers for all foreign missions in the United States. (See the FAQ
   entitled "Other Subjects" for information on how to obtain a copy of
   Foreign Entry Requirements.)

   Frequently Asked Questions on More Subjects

   Visa Services
