http://www.edsitement.neh.gov/about_conditionsofuse.html

   [USEMAP:titlebar_new.gif]

   Young Boy Studying -- About EDSITEment
   Home
   Search


   About EDSITEment: Conditions of Use
   Disclaimer for External Links and Non-Federal Resources
   EDSITEment contains a variety of links to other websites and references
   to resources available through government, nonprofit, and commercial
   entities. External links to websites from the "EDSITEment" website and
   references to non-federal resources are provided solely for
   informational purposes and the convenience of the user. The National
   Endowment for the Humanities does not control, review, approve, or
   endorse these sites, nor does the Endowment control, review, approve,
   or endorse these resources. These other sites may collect data or
   personal information. Once you link to another site, you are subject to
   the privacy policy of the new site. If you decide to access any site
   linked to this site, you do so entirely at your own risk. In addition,
   the external links and non-federal resources are in no way intended to
   represent an exhaustive listing.

   Please note: EDSITEment pages may carry part of the above statement
   with the icon following this text, or pages may display the icon alone.
   Clicking on the icon will link you to this page. Disclaimer

   Opinions and Interpretations
   The "EDSITEment" website site contains information gathered from many
   different sources. The opinions and interpretations expressed in the
   website do not necessarily state or reflect the views or policies of
   the United States Government, or any agency, contractor, or
   subcontractor thereof.

   Providing personal information on the Internet is completely voluntary,
   yet different websites may do different things with that information.
   Before providing any personal information, you should familiarize
   yourself with the Privacy Policy of the site collecting the
   information. Please read carefully our Privacy Policy, and the privacy
   policy of any third-party website to which you provide personal
   information.

   Who We Are
   "EDSITEment" is a World Wide Website for humanities education developed
   by the National Endowment for the Humanities, a federal government
   agency, in partnership with WorldCom Foundation, a corporation, The
   Council of the Great City Schools, a non-profit corporation, and the
   National Trust for the Humanities, a non-profit corporation
   (collectively "the sponsors") for the benefit of parents, students, and
   teachers. The use of the term "partner" is a descriptive term used in
   connection with this co-venture arrangement and in no way implies a
   legal relationship between the parties.

   EDSITEment provides access to educational websites which, as judged by
   a panel of experts, were selected solely on the basis of educational
   excellence in the humanities and high-quality website design.
   EDSITEment is not a complete course in any humanities discipline, nor
   does it attempt to provide comprehensive coverage of the humanities.
   EDSITEment does not prescribe a specific course of study nor advocate
   any educational theory. EDSITEment is intended solely to be an
   educational resource for teachers, parents, and students.

   The text, images and other materials in the websites linked to
   EDSITEment were reviewed by a panel of experts and found to be
   educationally appropriate for users of all ages. Recognizing that the
   World Wide Web is a dynamic, interactive, and exploratory environment
   for humanities education, the humanities content of the linked sites
   may change and expand over time. The National Endowment for the
   Humanities reserves the right to terminate any link or linking program
   at any time.

   Copyright
   No copyright is claimed as to matters in the public domain.
   Contributors to the site retain copyright in the material they provide.

   User's Obligation to Obey Applicable Laws
   While many of the images and documents in websites linked with
   EDSITEment may be in the public domain, others may be protected under
   copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property laws of the
   United States and foreign countries. Such laws generally prohibit
   (subject to civil and criminal penalties) the unauthorized
   reproduction, distribution, adaptation, display, and performance of
   protected works. It is the user's obligation to comply with these
   applicable laws, including, where necessary, seeking the advice of
   counsel regarding the application of the fair use doctrine to the
   proposed educational use of materials. Other federal, state, and local
   laws that may apply to the use of materials linked with EDSITEment are
   defamation, misappropriation, invasion of privacy, and/or publicity
   rights.

   Liability
   Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of
   their employees, nor any of their contractors, subcontractors, or their
   employees: (1) make any warranty, express or implied, or assume any
   legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or
   usefulness of any text, image, or materials in any website linked with
   the "EDSITEment" website; or (2) represent that their use would not
   defame or violate or infringe upon the rights, including, without
   limitation, copyrights, trademarks, or any other intellectual property
   rights, moral rights, publicity rights, or privacy rights of any other
   person or entity.

   Acceptance of Terms
   By using this site, you signify your assent to these policies. If you
   do not agree to these conditions, please do not use this site.

   Comments
   The Endowment welcomes your comments or questions about the
   "EDSITEment" website. Please enter them into our "Talk to Us" form in
   the Teachers' Lounge section. Because of the volume of usage on the
   site, however, the Endowment may not be able to respond directly to
   your inquiry.

   Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998
   Pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, the agent to
   receive notification of claimed infringement is:

                          Virginia R. Canter, Esq.
                               General Counsel
                    National Endowment for the Humanities
                  1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room 530
                           Washington, D.C. 20506
                             Gencounsel@neh.gov


   Subtopics
   About EDSITEment
   Criteria for Selecting Sites
   Disclaimer
   EDSITEment Partners
   Nomination and Review Process
   Peer Review Panelists
   Privacy
