http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Study/WhyItMatters/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                         Features

     Why the Earth Observing System Matters to all of us



   At the end of this millennium it is appropriate for us to reflect upon
   the world we are passing on to our children. We are the first
   generation in human history with the capacity to impact the entire
   global system. Atmospheric CO2 concentrations have been measured
   carefully since 1957 at Mauna Loa, and the increase has been steady at
   about 0.3% per year since then, a direct result of fossil fuel
   combustion. Atmospheric CO2 in itself, is not dangerous, it actually
   helps plants grow faster. But scientists see it as a canary in the coal
   mine, the leading indicator of other global scale human impacts on the
   biosphere, the sum total of living organisms on the land and in the
   oceans. Whether the collective impacts of humans on the Earth are
   benign, or on a trajectory to future disaster is an ethical question we
   must now confront. However, studying the entire Spaceship as a
   functioning Earth System had never been tried before, until now.

     Yosemite
   Long-term monitoring of the Earth's biosphere is the goal of NASA's
   Earth Observing System. (Photograph Copyright Corel Corp.)
   Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide The concentration
   of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased from 310 to over 360
   parts per million in the past 50 years. Carbon dioxide traps heat near
   the Earth's surface, and its increase may lead to global warming.
   (Graph by Robert Simmon, based on data from the National Oceanographic
   and Atmospheric Administration)


   In July 1983, NASA published with little fanfare, the report of a small
   group of scientists aptly named Land-Related Global Habitability
   Science issues. This brainstorming by about 20 scientists, including
   myself, was a first attempt to think how the entire earth could be
   monitored carefully and continuously to evaluate global change trends.
   NASA spent the rest of the 1980s designing a system to measure global
   habitability, and the Earth Observing System, EOS was conceived in
   1990. On Dec 16, 1999, maybe fittingly at the end of this millennium,
   we will launch the first satellite designed to fulfill this vision. The
   one line summary of the purpose of EOS is to find out "Is the current
   human occupancy and activity of planet Earth sustainable?"


   Global Population Density

   The areas of the world with the highest population densities—China and
   Southeast Asia—are rapidly industrializing. Considering the
   environmental record of industrialized countries, these developing
   nations will face important decisions between rapid growth and
   environmental stewardship. (Map by Robert Simmon, based on data from
   the Center for International Earth Science Information Network)

   It is the moral imperative of our generation to pass on to our children
   and grandchildren a world that is equal in habitability to the world
   our parents gave to us. The problem is that as the global population
   passes 6 billion people, even if individual resource consumption stayed
   constant, impacts on the biosphere will increase. However, we seem to
   be living in bigger houses, driving fancier cars, and flying off to
   more vacations than our parents did. So per capita resource consumption
   is not staying constant at all, but increasing. And the developing
   world is desperately trying to catch up to these living standards of
   the developed countries. Many developing countries are also making the
   same mistakes of "development at whatever the environmental cost" that
   we made 30 years ago. We learned back then that rivers catching on fire
   and air pollution that forces schoolchildren to stay in at recess is
   unacceptable. The progress in cleaning up regional pollution in the
   United States has been remarkable in the last few decades. But now at
   the end of the 1990s, as we see a globalized economy, we also now see a
   globally interconnected environment.

   New York City
   In 1940 New York was the world's largest city, with 7.4 million
   inhabitants. By 1997 it had dropped to tenth, replaced by Seoul, South
   Korea's, 10.2 million residents. The global population has grown
   rapidly in the past 50 years. Consequentially, humanity's impact on the
   environment is increasing. We need to understand the environment to
   accurately judge the effect we have on it. (Photograph from the
   National Archives and Records Administration)

   Documenting and monitoring biospheric health, just like human health,
   should not be a political topic. Biospheric health, and more
   specifically the sustainability of human life on planet Earth, is a
   topic that cuts across liberals and conservatives, republicans and
   democrats. We all want the best for our grandchildren, and to pass on
   to them a livable world. However, until now, global biospheric health
   has been largely unmeasurable, so discussions and policy development
   have been handicapped by a paucity of data. The purpose of EOS is to
   provide this factual information on trends of change in our biosphere.
   How we interpret these data, and the course of action we embark on in
   the next millennium will be a critical political topic. If global
   change trends turn out to be relatively modest, then only small
   adjustments in social behavior may be necessary. However if impacts
   appear to be harmful and accelerating at an unpredictable pace, how can
   we ignore these early warnings in good conscience? It is essential the
   new political discussion be based on facts, not conjucture. These are
   lofty, long range, visionary objectives, similar intellectually to
   searching for other life in the universe. But global habitability has
   more immediate significance to us all. Let us hope that EOS allows us
   to start the new millennium with an enlightened understanding of the
   changing biosphere.


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
