http://map.gsfc.nasa.gov/privacy_security.html

   NASA IT Security Warning Banner

      Use of this U.S. Government computer system by unauthorized persons or
      for purposes other than official business is a violation of Federal
      Law.

      YOU SHOULD HAVE NO EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY IN THIS COMPUTER SYSTEM!

      Access to and all activities and keystrokes on this computing system
      are subject to monitoring and recording without any other notice. Any
      use of this computing system constitutes consent to such monitoring. If
      you use this system for unauthorized purposes, you will be violating
      the law and may be subject to criminal, civil, and/or administrative
      penalties.

   NASA Website Privacy Statement

      This policy establishes how NASA will use information we gather about
      you from your visit to our website. The privacy of our customers is of
      utmost importance to NASA.

      If you visit a NASA site...

   1. To read or download information:

        We may collect and store information for statistical purposes. For
        example, we may count the number of visitors to the different
        sections of our site to help us make them more useful to visitors.
        Similar information is gathered for anonymous ftp, remote account
        login, or for other comparable types of connections.

   2. To send us an E-mail:

        By sending us an electronic mail message, you may be sending us
        personal information (e.g., name, address, E-mail address), as in an
        official FOIA request. We may store the name and address of the
        requester in order to respond to the request or to otherwise resolve
        the subject matter of your E-mail.

   3. To register:

        Some of our sites ask visitors who request specific information to
        fill out a registration form. For example, vendors looking for
        marketing opportunities by visiting our NASA Acquisition Internet
        Service sites may be asked to "register" to obtain email notices of
        business opportunities. Other information which may be collected at
        these sites through questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means,
        enable us to determine a visitor's interests, with the goal of
        providing better service to our customers.

      We want to be very clear: regardless of the information being
      transmitted to NASA, we will protect all such information consistent
      with applicable law.

   NASA Website Disclaimer Statement

        Thank you for visiting this NASA website. NASA may provide links to
        web pages that are not part of the NASA web family, or nasa.gov
        domain. These sites are managed by organizations, companies, or
        individuals not under NASA control, and NASA is not responsible for
        the information or links you may find there. NASA provides these
        links merely as a convenience and the presence of these links is not
        NASA endorsement of the site.

   NASA Website Accessibility Statement

        The majority of pages on this website are accessible to individuals
        with disabilities in accordance with Section 508 of the
        Rehabilitation Act. If you have accessibility problems, please let
        us know.

   Information for Users with Visual Disabilities

        Images on our website are accompanied by alternative text describing
        graphics if your browser supports the alt-text function. Documents
        on our website are presented in many formats. These formats are
        generally accessible to users using screen reading software. Some
        files are posted as Adobe Acrobat PDF (Portable Document Format)
        files. Users with visual disabilities click here for free access to
        software from Adobe which will make reading PDF files easier Adobe
        Acrobat Accessibility Link.
        If you have any difficulty viewing any page with adaptive
        technology, click here to let us know.

        NASA Privacy and Accessibility Statement revision of June 14, 2001
