http://sfablueprint.ed.gov/pdf/Mb_ch3.pdf

   A. Chapter Overview We are currently working on initiatives for
   redesigning the following core business processes: ! Title IV
   Origination and Disbursement ! Human Resource Management ! Contract and
   Acquisition Management ! Facilities Management The Revised business
   models and high-level processes for these initiatives are found in
   Sections B trough D. These models and processes are still under
   discussion with the community. Therefore, the detailed business
   requirements remain as they were in the previous edition of the
   Blueprint until further details are defined and agreed upon This
   chapter describes the capabilities SFA needs to achieve its mission of
   helping to put America through school. These capabilities are described
   as business requirements. Business requirements are used in the
   Modernization Blueprint to identify specific components of the target
   technical architecture described in the next chapter; they are
   presented in this chapter in several levels of detail. Section B of
   this chapter describes how the SFA business requirements were
   developed. A summary of the major improvements to SFA business
   processes that will occur through modernization is also presented.
   These improvements will affect how students, schools, and financial
   partners interact with SFA. Some of the activities, currently performed
   by SFA employees will change as well. In Section C, SFA business
   requirements are described at the highest level. In the beginning of
   this section, a new SFA business model is presented. This business
   model is a conceptual representation of how SFA business processes will
   be organized in the future. The business model outlines five functional
   areas that the target technology architecture must support: Student
   Services, School Services, Financial Partner Services, Performance
   Management, and Enterprise Services. Each of these functional areas is
   described in this section and then divided into groups of activities
   that are described as businesses processes and supporting functions. In
   Section D, business requirements are described in greater detail. Each
   business process or supporting function is reduced into subprocesses. A
   graphical depiction of each business process is provided to show SFA's
   view of business relationships. In Chapter IV a more technical
   depiction of business processes is presented. Detailed business
   requirements are then presented in tables for each of the subprocesses.
   In Section E, implementation requirements statements for SFA Release
   1.0 are provided. This section contains Level III requirements
   statements and specifications for five initiatives/projects that SFA is
   planning on implementing within fiscal year 2000. The five projects are
   Ombudsman Call Tracking System, Links to Financial July 15, 2000 Page
   III.A-1 Planning Sites, FAFSA Web Changes, SFA Financial Management
   System, and Digital IDs Registration. Level III design statements and
   specifications for the same five initiatives/projects appear in Chapter
   IV. Together these documents will serve as a high-level guide and
   project plan to facilitate rapid and successful implementation of these
   projects. Objectives for the Chapter ! Describe how the SFA business
   requirements were developed ! Summarize the key improvements to SFA
   business processes to be made possible through modernization ! Present
   a new SFA business model to serve as an organizing framework for the
   business requirements ! Describe SFA operations as set of business
   processes ! Provide a detailed list of business requirements for
   specific subprocesses Chapter Contents Page A. Chapter Overview III.A-1
   B. Summary of New Business Requirements III.B-1 C. Business Process
   Requirements-Level I III.C-1 D. SFA Subprocess Requirements-Level II
   III.D-1 Student Services * Aid Awareness III.D-2 * Aid Application
   III.D-9 * Loan Repayment III.D-15 School Services * Program Eligibility
   III.D-30 * Program Support III.D-35 * Common Origination and
   Disbursement III.D-46 * Financial Transactions III.D-62 Financial
   Partner Services * Program Eligibility III.D-67 * Program Support
   III.D-71 July 15, 2000 Page III.A-2 Chapter Contents Page * Financial
   Transactions III.D-78 Performance Management * Customer Satisfaction
   Management III.D-82 * Employee Satisfaction Management III.D-88 *
   Financial Management III.D-93 Enterprise Services * Human Resources
   Management III.D-116 * Information Technology Management III.D-127 *
   Facilities Management III.D-134 * Contract and Acquisition Management
   III.D-139 E. SFA Release 1.0 Project Implementation Requirements
   III.E-1 Statement * Ombudsman Call Tracking System III.E-2 * Links to
   Financial Planning Sites III.E-4 * FAFSA Web Changes III.E-6 * SFA
   Financial Management System III.E-8 * Digital IDs Registration III.E-11
   July 15, 2000 Page III.A-3 Overview of the Modernization Blueprint 7KLV
   FKDSWHU GHVFULEHV WKH 0RGHUQL]DWLRQ 5HTXLUHPHQWV Modernization
   Modernization Modernization Requirements Architecture Sequencing Plan
   Process Technical Business Process Process Program System Level I
   Requirements Flows Systems Sequencing Subprocess Business Subprocess
   Subsystem Level II Flows Subsystem Requirements Sequencing Level III
   Subrelease Subrelease Subrelease Requirements Design Planning Level IV
   CI CI CI Development Requirements Design Planning 10044162-022 July 15,
   2000 Page III.A-4 B. Summary of New Business Requirements SFA's current
   operations are hampered by out-of-date technology. A "tangled hairball"
   of stovepipe systems limit SFA's ability to serve students, work with
   schools and the financial community, and provide the accountability
   that taxpayers demand. Fortunately, technologies have been developed
   over the past 5 to 10 years that SFA can use to untangle this
   "hairball" of systems. Dramatic service improvements can be made by
   leveraging the Internet and new technology to improve the way
   information is shared and managed. As information flows more easily
   within and among SFA, its business partners, schools, and students,
   business processes can be streamlined for students, schools, and
   financial partners. In addition, new services can be provided for SFA's
   customers and partners. SFA cannot streamline its processes without
   developing new operational capabilities. These capabilities are
   required if SFA is to fulfill its mission. In this chapter, these new
   capabilities are described as a set of business requirements. In the
   Modernization Blueprint, business requirements are used to identify
   specific components of the target technical architecture. How Were
   These Business Requirements Developed? Over the past 4 years, many
   individuals have been involved in the process of identifying future SFA
   business requirements. Their efforts culminate in the development of
   the Modernization Blueprint. The primary sources of information used to
   define the business requirements described in this chapter include: !
   Project EASI (Easy Access for Students and Institutions) has been a
   joint effort among the Department of Education, students, educators,
   and the business community over the past several years to document
   current processes and to determine what functional areas should be
   reengineered. Business requirements were identified in Project EASI for
   five critical sets of activities including Aid Application, Aid
   Origination and Disbursement, Loan Repayment, Financial Services, and
   Program Management and Oversight. Business requirements identified in
   the Modernization Blueprint build on this core set of requirements. !
   Access America for Students is a pilot project to provide common
   electronic access and service delivery for federal agencies, schools,
   and other entities serving postsecondary students. The Access America
   project builds on some of the ideas generated in Project EASI. As new
   concepts are tested in Access America pilots and adopted by SFA,
   business processes are likely to change. Business requirements that may
   change as a result of the Access America pilots are identified in the
   Modernization Blueprint. ! Workshops held with SFA management to review
   the Project EASI documentation and to identify any new business
   requirements. These workshops were organized around specific functional
   areas and involved groups of July 15, 2000 Page III.B-1 10-15 managers.
   In some of the workshops, new sub-processes were identified and
   business requirement definitions were edited. These changes are
   reflected in the Modernization Blueprint. ! The Joint Financial
   Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) is a joint and cooperative
   undertaking of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the General
   Accounting Office, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Office
   of Personnel Management to improve financial management practices in
   government. JFMIP has developed a number of reports, which establish
   standards for financial system requirements across government agencies.
   These reports formed the basis for the financial management business
   requirements defined in the Modernization Blueprint. ! Output from a
   number of ongoing initiatives was also used to define SFA business
   requirements. Some of these initiatives include the SFA Customer
   Service Task Force, the SFA Ombudsman project, and the current SFA
   Organizational Redesign project. To the extent possible, feedback from
   current pilot projects such as the California and New York Mentor
   project and the Colorado PEPPER project were incorporated in the
   business requirements. The business requirements may change as SFA
   learns from these initiatives over the coming months. ! SFA will adopt
   industry best practices in a number of functional areas through
   modernization. As the Modernization Blueprint has been developed,
   research has been conducted to identify best practices from both the
   public and private sectors. This research has shaped many of the
   business requirements, particularly those functional areas where less
   analysis had been performed previously (e.g., Performance Management
   and Enterprise Services). The Modernization Blueprint serves as a
   management tool to integrate all process and technology improvement
   projects. As new business requirements are identified, they will be
   folded into the Modernization Blueprint. As a result, the business
   requirements listed in this chapter are likely to converge with the
   future state of our vision over time. Summary of Major Improvements to
   Business Processes In the future, students and their parents, schools,
   and financial partners will find it easier to do business with SFA.
   Students and their parents will be able to make more informed decisions
   about education financing. Once they make the decision to seek
   financial aid, students and their families will find it much easier to
   apply for and obtain aid. Schools will have improved access to the
   information they need to serve their students. Schools will be able to
   provide better services to students at a lower cost as result of the
   paperless exchange of funds and information with the federal
   government. The financial community will be able to leverage the
   investments they have already made in commercial technologies to
   streamline their interaction with SFA. Modernization will not only
   benefit SFA's customers and partners, but SFA July 15, 2000 Page
   III.B-2 employees as well. Employees will be given the tools they need
   to be productive in a high performance work environment within
   Government's first Performance-Based organization. As a result, SFA
   employees will be given the opportunity to develop personally and
   professionally in the modernized SFA. Some of the major changes to SFA
   business processes are described below. Major Changes From the
   Student's Perspective Students and their families will be provided
   earlier education about financial aid. From elementary school onward,
   children and their families will be informed that post- secondary
   education is readily accessible and affordable given the vast array of
   financial aid programs available. They will have access to information
   and educational materials directly through their schools and at their
   fingertips on the Web. Students and families will be able to choose the
   communication method that is best for them as they begin the financial
   aid planning and application process. While the primary focus will
   always be self-service, aid information through the school financial
   aid administrators will be facilitated by a modernized SFA. SFA will
   provide easy-to- use technology through the Internet as well as call
   systems, available 24 hours daily, to answer financial aid questions
   and simplify the application process. Self-servicing options through
   the Web and sophisticated telephone systems will allow students to get
   the financial aid information they need, when they need it, day or
   night. A few examples of the tools and assistance available include: !
   Online "Personal Assistant" Help-As students enter the SFA Web site,
   this handy automated search engine will quickly direct them to
   resources, provide answers to their questions, and will point out
   helpful hints to speed the financial aid process. For students who do
   not have access to a personal computer or the Internet, a toll-free
   number will be available. A call to this number will link students to a
   customer service representative who will use the "personal assistant"
   to help provide answers. ! Online Financial Planning Tools-No longer
   will students have to wait for someone else to tell them what options
   are available to finance their education. By providing access from
   SFA's site to other sites' existing online tools, students will be able
   to build aid and repayment scenarios at home with their parents, so
   they can truly understand how aid decisions will impact their financial
   future. Ongoing alternative outreach efforts will continue to target
   students and families without access to the Internet. ! Electronic
   Forms Signature and Submission-A Modernized SFA will not only provide
   easy access to information but quick, no-hassle aid application as
   well. An electronic signature on a student's Web-created aid
   application will eliminate the need for submission of paper forms.
   Electronic submission of the FAFSA, as well as electronic signing of
   loan promissory notes, will mean students will not only be able to do
   preliminary estimates but will also be able to link schools and lenders
   who will provide actual financial aid packages and delivery of funds.
   July 15, 2000 Page III.B-3 Major Changes From the Schools' Perspective
   Through the use of portal technology, students and schools will deliver
   targeted, up- to-date information and assistance based on the specific
   needs of each student and school. Other changes include: ! A student
   account history, providing a view all title IV aid information, that
   can be accessed either by school administrators or directly by
   students. The account tracks enrollment, disbursement, and repayment
   transaction information. The account displays information from various
   lending sources and presents this data seamlessly to applicants and
   students. ! Paperless interaction between SFA and schools, providing a
   streamlined aid process. FAFSAs, SARs and cohort default rate review
   information will all be provided electronically. ! Automated enrollment
   verification, solving the problem of students not receiving loan
   deferments to which they are entitled. This will help reduce "technical
   defaults." ! Self-service and performance-based reviews, alleviating
   burdensome review processes for schools. School administrators will
   have appropriate access to their SFA profile. SFA supplied risk
   management tools will enable schools to identify performance trends
   including delinquency and default based on current and historic data.
   With these tools, schools will have the ability to help current and
   former students, as well as to proactively improve their SFA standings
   using data that reconciles directly with SFA records. Performance-based
   reviews will reduce the number and frequency of SFA program reviews of
   schools. Instead, the SFA and its partners will agree to a limited
   number of key performance indicators and tolerance levels. Schools that
   meet or exceed these targets through pro-active self- auditing efforts
   and corrective action will be less subject to SFA audits-thereby
   focusing SFA resources on the schools in most need of guidance and
   support. ! Dedicated School Service Representatives. This ensures a
   human element is not lost as SFA expands access to technology-based
   tools for schools. Aid experts will be on hand to address special
   issues or problems that can not be resolved by the school financial aid
   administrator or through SFA supported technology tools. July 15, 2000
   Page III.B-4 Major Changes From the Financial Partners' Perspective SFA
   and its financial partners will take advantage of commercially
   available systems and services to: ! Create common business rules for
   origination and disbursement ! Share data related to the status of the
   loan portfolio as well as individual borrower records ! Automatically
   create deferments as borrowers transfer among schools ! Implement
   electronic signature technology to eliminate paper processing of
   critical financial aid forms Self-service through the Internet will
   allow financial partners to communicate with and obtain information
   from SFA quickly and easily. Electronic reporting will reduce the
   burden to lenders through less paperwork. Speedier turnaround on these
   reports translates into quicker payments to the institutions. Finally,
   SFA's guaranty agency and lender reviews will be based on shared data
   about the institution's loan portfolio, thereby reducing the time and
   effort needed to reconcile information. Improved debt management tools
   reduce total system costs for financial partners, schools, and SFA.
   Students will be linked to the lenders that hold their loans via an
   online network. A customized Web site, linking SFA to lender,
   guarantor, and servicer sites, will provide proactive debt management
   tools that: ! Inform borrowers of all their repayment options,
   including standard, graduated, extended, and income-contingent payment
   plans ! Enable the student to link to online providers which calculate
   estimated monthly payments based on loans held across lenders !
   Dynamically factor in non-student loan debt to augment the debt
   management plan ! Provide information on available payment methods,
   including automatic debit, payroll deduction, or debit card
   transactions ! Offer information related to loan consolidation
   alternatives July 15, 2000 Page III.B-5 Major Changes From the SFA
   Employee's Perspective Technology will facilitate communication through
   all levels and parts of the organization. SFA will regularly
   communicate its vision, mission, strategies and goals to ensure a
   common direction. Communication systems will be geared toward providing
   employees with up-to-the-minute information on everything from SFA
   overall performance data to the date of the office picnic. Plus,
   employees will have an open line to the COO and other senior managers
   so that their concerns and ideas get a quick response. Employees will
   work together in new ways enabled by new technological tools. Team
   members from headquarters and the regions will work together on
   projects through a Web-based collaborative workspace. Discussions on
   different topics will be held in various chat rooms with everyone's
   work products available online. Video- conferencing will allow the team
   to meet face-to-face. One of the simplest and most useful new tools
   will be an online directory of employee knowledge and skill sets. This
   will allow employees to find an SFA expert on any topic. Employees will
   be able to use this new system to select team members for special
   projects. Career Enhancement-Employees will not be left behind in the
   rush to modernize. Everyone will get the basic training they need-from
   business writing to high-tech computer applications. Tailored training
   for specialized SFA jobs will also be available. Performance
   Evaluation-As a Performance Based Organization (PBO), SFA will measure
   its business success in terms of customer satisfaction, employee
   satisfaction and cost minimization. Automated systems will provide
   employees and managers with current feedback on many measures,
   including SFA's internal program costs. Information technology will
   give employees easy access to cost accounting data and analytical tools
   that will enable them to identify and pursue potential savings.
   Implementing these improvements will affect most of SFA's current
   business processes. The next section describes at a high level how each
   functional area will change as a result of modernization. July 15, 2000
   Page III.B-6 C. Business Process Requirements-Level I In this section,
   business requirements are presented at the highest level. The SFA
   Business Model is introduced and then used as an organizing framework
   for the rest of this chapter. High level requirement descriptions are
   provided for SFA's five critical functional areas as well as the
   processes and support functions that make up the five functional areas.
   In Section D, these processes are divided into subprocesses. Detailed
   lists of business requirements are then provided for each subprocess.
   Overview of the SFA Business Model The SFA business model shown in the
   graphic following this section is a conceptual representation of all
   activities performed by SFA employees. Activities are grouped into key
   processes and supporting functions. These processes and functions are
   then logically grouped into five critical functional areas that the
   technical architecture must support. The five functional areas include:
   Student Services, School Services, Financial Partner Services,
   Performance Management, and Enterprise Services. Proper understanding
   of the business model involves two key points. First, the business
   model is simply the framework that is used to describe the SFA business
   requirements to be fulfilled through modernization. While the business
   model graphic depicts several key organizational concepts, it is NOT an
   organizational structure. In the future, groups of SFA employees may
   perform activities in multiple processes and support functions. Second,
   the business model represents current thought on how SFA activities
   should be logically grouped in the future. This point of view will
   likely evolve as SFA modernizes and begins to reengineer key business
   processes and support functions. As the business model is continually
   improved, the business requirements presented in the Modernization
   Blueprint will be reevaluated and, in some cases, edited. Changes to
   SFA business requirements will then drive changes to the target
   technical architecture. In this way, the Modernization Blueprint will
   serve as a management tool used to define at any given point in time
   how ongoing technology initiatives are linked to the SFA business
   requirements. The SFA business model was developed in a series of
   workshops with SFA senior management. In these workshops, SFA
   management was presented with descriptions of the five functional areas
   defined in Project EASI: Aid Application, Aid Origination and
   Disbursement, Repayment, Financial Services and Program Management and
   Oversight. Workshop participants were then asked to identify activities
   that SFA will likely perform in the future and that were not documented
   in Project EASI. Some of these activities includes: work done to
   increase public awareness of the availability of financial aid, ongoing
   measurement of customer and employee satisfaction, and many of the
   activities that go on each day to keep the SFA "business" running
   (Human Resource Management, IT Management, Facilities Management and
   Contract and Acquisition Management activities). Each of these groups
   of activities is included in this new business model. July 15, 2000
   Page III.C-1 In workshops, SFA management decided that the SFA business
   model should communicate several key organizational concepts. These
   concepts, which are represented in the business model, include: !
   Activities grouped into two general categories: core business processes
   and supporting functions. Core business processes include the
   activities SFA employees perform each day to directly serve students,
   schools and financial partners. In the business model, core business
   processes are represented as three "process rings" on top of the
   graphic. Support functions are the activities SFA employees perform to
   monitor SFA performance and to manage SFA's critical assets: employees,
   investments in technology and facilities and vendor relationships. In
   the business model, support functions are represented by two "blocks"
   supporting the three process rings. ! Core business processes aligned
   along three service channels. Student Services are the services SFA
   provides directly to students. School Services and Financial Partner
   Services are the services SFA provides to its business partners.
   Services provided to schools and financial partners indirectly benefit
   students. This concept is represented by the three process rings. !
   Services provided within the three service channels as represented by
   circular flows in each of the process rings. This depiction graphically
   demonstrates the dynamic nature of the services SFA provides to
   students and partners. Many students apply for and repay multiple loans
   in their lifetime. In many cases, SFA provides support to schools and
   financial partners continuously throughout the year. ! As government's
   first Performance-Based Organization (PBO), SFA will measure more than
   just financial performance. SFA will measure its performance against
   three primary objectives: increasing customer satisfaction, increasing
   employee satisfaction, and reducing the overall cost of student
   financial assistance. To reflect this concept, the SFA business model
   includes three processes within the Performance Management functional
   area. ! Many best practice organizations in the private and public
   sectors are consolidating administrative activities into shared service
   organizations. These shared service organizations then provide high
   quality support services to organizational entities focused on customer
   segments, distribution channels, product groups, etc. In the future,
   SFA will need to tailor the support services available to groups of
   employees focused on one of the three service channels. To reflect the
   idea that SFA will adopt this best practice, support activities have
   been grouped into the Enterprise Services functional area. July 15,
   2000 Page III.C-2 SFA Target Business Model 3U 3URJU RJ DP UDP (OL
   (OLJLELOLW JLELO \ LW\ 3UR 3U JU RJ DP UDP 6XSS 6XS RU SR WUW )LQDQFLDO
   )LQDQFLDO $LGÃ 7U 7 DQV UDQ DFWLRQV VDFWLRQV $LGÃ $LGÃÃ 3URJ 3UR UDP
   JUDP $LGÃÃ $L $LGG $SSOLF $SSOL DW FDWLR LRQQ 3U 3URJU RJ DP UDP
   2ULJLQDWLRQÃDQG 6XS 6X SR SSRUWUW 2ULJLQDWLRQÃDQG $ZDUHQ $ZDU HVV HQHVV
   (OLJ (OL LELOLW JLELO \ LW\ 'L 'L VEXU VEX VHPHQ UV W HPHQW /R / DQÃ
   RDQÃ )LQDQ )LQD FLDO QFLDO 5HSD\PHQ 5HSD\PHQWW 7U 7UDQVDF DQV WLRQV
   DFWLRQV 6WXGHQW 6FKRRO )LQDQFLDO 6HUYLFHV 6HUYLFHV 3DUWQHU 6HUYLFHV
   3HUI 3HUIR RUUPDQF PDQFH 0D H 0 QD DQ JH DJ PHQ HPH W QW
   &XVWRPHUÃ6DWLVIDFWLRQ (PSOR\HHÃ6DWLVIDFWLRQ )LQDQFLDOÃ0DQDJHPHQW
   (QWHUSU (QWHUSU LVH 6HUYL LVH 6HU FH YLFHV V ,QIRUPDWLRQ
   +XPDQÃ5HVRXUFHV &RQWUDFWÃDQG 7HFKQRORJ\ )DFLOLWLHV 0DQDJHPHQW
   $FTXLVLWLRQ 0DQDJHPHQW 0DQDJHPHQW 0DQDJHPHQW 10044162-107 In the
   future, SFA will adopt many best practices currently employed in
   private industry and by other government agencies. These best practices
   are reflected in the following descriptions of SFA's five functional
   areas. Overview of SFA Functional Areas ! Student Services For direct
   loans, Student Services handles all SFA interactions with students,
   providing them with convenient access to aid application information,
   forms, and account data. Student Services' core processes are designed
   to facilitate the coordination of relationships with lenders,
   guarantors, state agencies, schools, and July 15, 2000 Page III.C-3 SFA
   with a virtual student account, providing a consolidated view for each
   student to facilitate his or her interactions with education service
   providers. Equipped with user- friendly financial planning tools,
   students will be able to understand their financial needs for
   postsecondary education. Upon school completion, debt management
   counseling will help students understand the overall impact of their
   debt on their future financial goals. Services provided include
   increasing awareness of financial aid availability among youth,
   providing easy access to user-friendly application forms, just-in-time
   disbursement of funds and an efficient repayment process. ! School
   Services SFA School Services manages the relationship with schools from
   program eligibility through training and performance review. Using
   sophisticated performance and risk analysis tools, schools are
   categorized by their effectiveness in managing Federal funds and
   achieving performance-based outcomes as defined by SFA. Schools will
   have access to these tools directly so they can perform self-audits and
   take action to improve performance before corrective action is
   necessary. Other services include financial transaction processing,
   training/education and program/eligibility reviews. ! Financial Partner
   Services Financial Partners Services supports lenders and guaranty
   agencies in their delivery of aid to students. SFA receives information
   from and provides information to these entities related to SFA programs
   and individual student participants. The types of services provided to
   financial partners include training and education, eligibility
   processing, informational updates, financial transactions and program
   performance analysis and review. Financial partners require accurate,
   up-to-date information and real-time shared access to transaction data
   on their loan portfolios. This commitment to access and shared
   performance data drives the technical architecture. ! Performance
   Management Performance Management encompasses the collection and
   analysis of performance information, which is used by management to
   assess how well SFA is performing as a PBO, and the prioritization of
   improvement projects. It also provides a tool-set to link SFA's vision,
   strategy objectives, and key performance measures. This functional area
   includes three functions: Financial Management, Customer Satisfaction
   Management, and Employee Satisfaction Management. Also included in this
   functional area are the traditional accounting and finance activities
   that ensure SFA successfully manages the flow of funds between itself
   and external parties. SFA is focused on achieving three primary goals:
   increasing customer satisfaction, decreasing the cost of delivering
   financial assistance, and increasing employee satisfaction. Processes
   will be put in place to continuously measure progress against these
   goals and to insure that the momentum that has been generated by
   initiatives like the Customer Service Task Force will be maintained in
   the future. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-4 ! Enterprise Services SFA will
   improve the way it manages its critical assets: its people, technology,
   facilities, and its relationships with vendors. These "Enterprise
   Services" provide the foundation for services provided both internally
   and externally. Enterprise Services performs best in business Human
   Resources Management, IT Management, Facilities Management, and
   Contract and Acquisition Management across SFA's operation to provide a
   consolidated, channel-driven approach to support services. Enterprise
   Services create and deliver value for SFA and support processes in the
   business model by capitalizing on economies of scale, pooled expertise,
   reduced overhead, and program/system integration. In a modernized SFA,
   the internal customer drives the level and type of services performed
   by Enterprise Services. Enabled by technology, Enterprise Services can
   partner with each channel to reduce costs and streamline operations for
   all parties. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-5 Student Services...Divided into
   Three Processes Aid Awareness Aid Awareness is dedicated to increasing
   awareness of financial aid availability and counseling. This process
   identifies and educates potential program participants, including
   students and their families. Aid Awareness provides information and
   guidance to assist in the postsecondary school planning and decision
   making process. The target age to reach potential program participants
   is increasingly younger, to allow ample forethought and analysis for
   the student and his or her family. This process includes the management
   of special SFA initiatives including the "College is Possible" campaign
   and may include future co-branding or sponsorship opportunities
   designed to reach the target market through popular media. Aid
   Awareness targets markets that may be good candidates for SFA programs
   and develops awareness programs with these targets in mind. SFA
   executes awareness through the implementation of its programs and
   initiatives. The enhanced outreach services for under-served market
   segments is one such initiative. Throughout the process, SFA monitors
   program effectiveness and makes changes where needed. Aid Application
   Aid Application will provide a streamlined, user friendly means to
   apply for financial aid through various media and will provide support
   during the application process. This process collects and organizes
   application information, verifies this information and assists in the
   creation of aid packages for schools and students. Aid Application is
   responsible for the design of the physical application form. Aid
   Application enables potential students to apply through the
   communication medium of their choice, including the Internet (such as
   FAFSA application renewal on the Web) or traditional mail channels. As
   information comes in to SFA, it is organized and automatically
   verified. This information is then used to calculate and report the
   participant's Expected Family Contribution (EFC) to schools who put
   together aid packages. Decisions on the acceptance or rejection of aid
   packages are reported back to SFA. Loan Repayment Loan Repayment
   counsels borrowers on debt management and repayment options. It also
   provides an easy, streamlined process to repay loans and consider
   repayment alternatives. For Direct Loans, this process offers
   counseling to and collects money July 15, 2000 Page III.C-6 from
   borrowers who have entered into repayment, provides invoices, processes
   loan consolidation requests and attempts collection on defaulted loans.
   Loan Repayment provides students with different media through which
   loans can be paid. As borrowers enter repayment, they will be offered
   advice on which repayment options best suit their circumstances and on
   the overall financial impact of their debt. Repayment options
   selection, bill dates changes and repayment calculation tools are
   available on the Web. Loan Repayment looks to leverage commercial
   systems to process bill presentation and payment. Loan monitoring will
   be automated, defaulted loans will be identified, and Loan Repayment
   will choose how to deal with defaults (from wage garnishment to
   collection agencies). Loan Repayment will also manage consolidation
   loan information and originate consolidation loans upon receipt of
   borrower requests. All requirements related to the Direct Loan System,
   Debt Collection Systems, and Guaranteed Loan System will be compliant
   with JFMIP requirements. These specific requirement needs will be
   mapped primarily at Levels III and IV of the Modernization Blueprint.
   July 15, 2000 Page III.C-7 School Services...Divided into Four
   Processes Program Eligibility Program Eligibility evaluates schools'
   administrative capabilities and demonstrated need for participation in
   Title IV programs. This process monitors eligibility requirements
   throughout a school's involvement with Title IV Aid programs. Program
   Eligibility includes the activities needed to certify schools for
   participation in Title IV programs, to define the scope of their
   participation and to discontinue eligibility, as needed. Statutory
   eligibility, administrative capability and financial capability are key
   determinants of school eligibility. When a school is certified, SFA
   determines participation levels based on type of program, length of
   program, method of disbursement and other dimensions that may vary from
   school to school. Schools' participation may also be deactivated,
   either voluntarily by the school or involuntarily by SFA. This process
   also manages the transactions related to discontinuing eligibility.
   Program Eligibility activities represent the first line of interaction
   between SFA and schools, so it is critical that these processes are
   executed efficiently and accurately. The information collected here
   will initiate the school profile and will be used as the basis of
   performance analysis and program support efforts throughout the
   school's tenure as a Title IV program participant. Program Support
   Program Support educates and trains schools on regulatory requirements,
   enabling computer tools and performance measure calculations for
   effective management of funds and risk. This process ensures that
   schools have the tools and assistance they need to effectively manage
   Title IV Aid programs. Program Support includes the sets of activities
   that characterize the relationship and exchange of information between
   SFA and Title IV schools. Program Support starts with training and
   technical support and collection/maintenance of program information.
   This information is then used to analyze school performance across a
   number of indicators, including financial, administrative, and
   outcomes-based measures. Performance analysis will be driven by
   predictive risk profiling tools that alert SFA to aberrant performance
   behavior across and among schools. Performance analysis and
   segmentation of schools across a risk continuum results in various
   actions by SFA ranging from regulatory relief for low risk, high
   performing schools to additional training/technical assistance, fines
   or participation discontinuance for high risk, low performing schools.
   Program Support in a modernized SFA will enable schools to access,
   manipulate and self-monitor their July 15, 2000 Page III.C-8
   performance through the use of sophisticated technology tools that can
   reside on an aid administrator's desktop. These tools will help schools
   identify corrective action options and improve performance levels
   relative to their peers. Common Origination and Disbursement
   Origination and Disbursement authorizes and releases Pell Grant and
   Direct Loan funds to schools as well as receives and confirms
   eligibility information related to specific recipients. This process
   ensures the proper funds are distributed for disbursement to eligible
   students. Origination and Disbursement starts by receiving records from
   schools indicating students to whom they intent to disburse funds. Key
   edits are then performed to confirm eligibility for the funds, at the
   school and student level. Upon confirmation of eligibility, the
   appropriate funds are released to the school for immediate payment to
   the student. Origination and Disbursement activities are the primary
   mechanism by which Title IV funds are delivered to students. Therefore,
   it is critical that these processes are executed efficiently and
   accurately. The information collected here will become the basis for
   borrower records which support a view of a student history of Title IV
   disbursements. Financial Transactions Financial Transactions maximizes
   the accuracy and speed of administration and tracking of financial
   flows between schools and SFA. This process coordinates the execution
   of financial activities conducted at the school level versus the
   student level. Financial Transactions includes the activities necessary
   to complete and track disbursement and reconciliation of funds to
   schools for Pell and Campus-Based programs. These activities include
   various adjustments, reimbursements, and closeout transactions needed
   to ensure that SFA's integrated financial management system reflects
   accurate and complete financial data related to school programs.
   Financial Transactions is also responsible for payment of cost
   allowances to schools for administering Pell and Campus-Based programs.
   Several of the requirements included in Financial Transactions will
   change or become obsolete in a just-in-time payment environment for
   school disbursements. The subprocesses that will be affected are noted
   in the appropriate sections. All Financial Transaction requirements
   will be JFMIP compliant as detailed in the Financial Management process
   later in Chapter III. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-9 Financial Partner
   Services...Divided Into Three Processes Program Eligibility This
   process maintains the activation and deactivation of eligibility for
   financial partners, namely lenders and guaranty agencies. The process
   determines eligibility through the review of applicable certifications
   and requirements, application information, and reporting. If a lender
   or guaranty agency fails to meet the requirements set forth by SFA in
   terms of reporting, financial health or participation, SFA may
   discontinue eligibility of said institution. Shared access to data for
   lenders and guaranty agencies will significantly improve the program
   eligibility process by eliminating process steps and speeding
   eligibility verification. Additionally, Program Eligibility receives
   and evaluates States applications for the LEAPP program (a Federal
   contributions program) and maintains related performance reports.
   Program Support Program Support provides financial partners with
   assistance and continuous training on changes to program guidelines,
   thus maximizing the efficient exchange of information and knowledge
   between SFA and its partners. This process maintains and supports the
   financial partner in all aspects of the aid programs. Program Support
   provides technical assistance and guidance to institutions in program
   specifics and changes to program guidelines. SFA maintains and monitors
   performance data and reportings from the financial partners including
   information such as number and size of loans, and distribution of funds
   by school or region. This information may be provided, upon request, to
   program participants. This process uses this information to conduct
   periodic financial partner program reviews. If a financial partner's
   performance is significantly better or worse than a baseline, SFA takes
   action to either expand the lender/guaranty agency's participation
   levels or sanction the financial partner (through decreases in
   participation levels or other methods). Access to and use of data
   across SFA to predict risk and potential performance issues for
   financial partners will be critical to improving program support
   efforts in a modernized SFA. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-10 Financial
   Transactions Financial Transactions maximizes the accuracy and speed of
   administration and tracking of financial flows between financial
   partners and SFA. This process manages the flow of funds between
   financial partners and SFA. The process makes payments to lenders and
   guaranty agencies such as reimbursements, special allowances and
   payments. Once a state has been accepted to the LEAPP program, this
   process manages the authorization and disbursement processes for funds,
   keeping track of contribution levels for each state. July 15, 2000 Page
   III.C-11 Performance Management...Divided into Three Functions Customer
   Satisfaction Management The need for service agencies to measure
   outcomes has never been greater. Agencies must find economical, yet
   effective, methods to demonstrate the impact of their programs on both
   clients and the community. Funders of programs want outcome measures
   that satisfy user needs, add value to programs and measure results. The
   Customer Satisfaction Management process includes a systematic series
   of activities to measure and report customer/partner service
   perceptions and outcomes. This process begins with identifying
   customer/partner needs and satisfaction levels, and developing
   objectives and plans to support them. Next, data is gathered and
   collected for analysis and processing to identify critical customer
   trends, performance gaps and opportunity areas. Finally, with this
   information, decision-makers can take responsive action to enhance
   customer satisfaction. Employee Satisfaction Management This process
   includes activities that enable proactive collection and analysis of
   employee feedback, enable management to build an accurate picture of
   how employees perceive the organization and highlight causes of
   employee dissatisfaction. The Employee Satisfaction Management process
   identifies SFA's most pressing employee concerns and improves morale by
   responding to employee feedback. It facilitates setting improvement
   goals, monitoring progress against those goals, benchmarking
   performance, and increasing productivity through improved employee
   motivation, lower absenteeism, and reduced staff turnover. Financial
   Management The Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 required
   all government agencies to manage by results. In response to this act,
   the Chief Financial Officers Council adopted the following vision for
   financial management: Enabling government to work better and cost less
   requires program and financial managers, working in partnership using
   modern management techniques and integrated financial management
   systems, to ensure the integrity of information, make decisions and
   measure performance to achieve desirable outcomes and real cost
   effectiveness. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-12 This process contains all of
   the activities SFA must perform to fulfill this vision. Included in the
   financial management process are the traditional accounting activities
   necessary to manage the flow of funds between students, SFA, schools,
   financial partners and other government agencies, as well as the
   activities SFA must perform to manage one of the largest portfolios of
   consumer loans. The financial management process will produce the
   reports that SFA management will use to monitor how well the SFA
   organization is performing relative to one of its three primary
   objectives: to reduce the overall cost of student financial assistance.
   As specified in the CFO Council's vision, a key business requirement of
   the financial management function is an integrated financial management
   system which manages the flow of financial information across all of
   SFA's information systems. In the future, SFA will leverage all
   financial systems in the Department of Education's CFO office as much
   as possible. However, to perform new PBO-specific financial management
   processes mandated by legislature, SFA will need its own best in
   business integrated financial management system. July 15, 2000 Page
   III.C-13 Enterprise Services...Divided into Four Functions Human
   Resources (HR) Management SFA is committed to building a strategic,
   best-in-business Human Resources capability that focuses on SFA's most
   important asset, its people. As a business enabler and strategic
   partner, Human Resources management will address SFA's critical people
   challenges: ! Aligning the organization and workforce with defined
   performance objectives ! Developing a workforce with the composition
   and competence required to perform ! Supporting the workforce's ongoing
   performance efforts ! Reinforcing the workforce's efforts and
   performance results Ultimately, SFA Human Resources seeks to address
   its people challenges to improve the welfare, and morale of SFA
   employees, thereby contributing to a positive culture that promotes
   success and delivers results. Information Technology (IT) Management IT
   Management includes processes which SFA performs to maximize return on
   current and future investments in information technology. IT Management
   activities enable SFA to prioritize investments, purchase the correct
   technology and operate and maintain its systems. In addition, IT
   Management ensures that SFA's systems have common standards, are
   secure, readily integrate and interface with channel partners, and keep
   pace with new technologies and technology requirements. Effective IT
   Management will improve efficiencies, reduce costs, and facilitate the
   easy access of information for SFA's internal and external customers.
   July 15, 2000 Page III.C-14 Facilities Management Facilities Management
   coordinates the physical workplace with the organization's people and
   work. SFA will use best practice principles in business administration,
   architecture and behavioral and engineering sciences to ensure that
   procedures are fixed and that mobile assets are inventoried, insured,
   and continually meet or exceed code. Also, Facilities Management will
   ensure that SFA facilities are safe and secure and have the best, most
   up-to-date, comfortable, and ergonomic equipment available. Effective
   Facilities Management will improve the comfort, welfare, and morale of
   SFA employees and reduce SFA costs through decreases in fraud and waste
   while promoting an environmentally friendly workplace. Inventory
   control systems, computer-aided design software, logistics planning,
   and control programs are possible systems that could be implemented to
   achieve these goals. Contract and Acquisition Management This process
   identifies, selects, and manages external vendors who supply goods and
   services to SFA. SFA partners with vendors and suppliers to provide
   high-value goods and services that can be used to supplement or
   substitute existing roles and capabilities critical to operating the
   business. These vendors are integral to SFA's delivery of service to
   students, schools and financial partners. Thus, their involvement and
   integration with SFA decision planning efforts is critical for
   effective Contract and Acquisition Management. Effective Contract and
   Acquisition Management provides SFA access to public and private best
   practice and subject matter expertise in cost reduction and improved
   service levels for both internal and external customers. IT supports
   Contract and Acquisition Management with robust procurement and project
   management software that contains built-in tracking and performance
   measures. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-15 This page intentionally left
   blank. July 15, 2000 Page III.C-16 D. SFA Subprocess Requirements-Level
   II In this section, the Level I business requirements presented in the
   prior section are broken down in further detail to subprocesses in
   Level II. Within each Level I Process Requirements are the subprocesses
   that add clarity and structure to the process definition. The
   descriptions that follow include business requirements associated with
   these subprocesses and flow diagrams to help the reader understand the
   high-level interactions between SFA and the educational community.
   These business requirements will drive the technical architecture of
   the Modernization Blueprint. In the business requirement definitions
   that follow in this section, 4-digit business requirement IDs (####)
   indicate that the requirement was identified during Project EASI.
   Alphanumeric business requirement IDs (XX-##.##) indicate that the
   business requirements were identified in workshops and meetings with
   SFA staff and members of the community. All subprocesses and
   requirements are ordered to enhance readability. July 15, 2000 Page
   III.D-1 Student Services  Aid Awareness Process Description This
   process identifies and educates potential program participants,
   including students and their families. Aid Awareness provides
   information and guidance to assist in the postsecondary school planning
   and decision making process. This subprocess includes special SFA
   initiatives and partnerships such as the "College is Possible" campaign
   and may include future co-branding or sponsorship opportunities
   designed to reach the target market through popular media. Aid
   Awareness targets markets that may be good candidates for SFA programs
   and develops awareness programs with these targets in mind. The
   enhanced outreach services for under-served market segments initiative
   is focusing on special needs accessibility and Puerto Rico Partnership.
   SFA executes awareness through the implementation of its programs and
   initiatives. As an additional educational tool for students, Aid
   Awareness facilitates access to other non-SFA resources, including
   informational materials (e.g., books, Web sites) and financial
   simulation and modeling (via the Web). Throughout the process, SFA
   monitors program effectiveness and makes changes where needed. Aid
   Awareness manages several points of contact between the public and SFA.
   The primary vehicle is the "1-800-4-FEDAID" toll-free number.
   Additional points of contact include debt collection phone-in numbers
   and correspondence (both paper and e-mail). In addition, SFA maintains
   substantial Web resources for students and an array of paper products
   ranging from Fact Sheets to multi-page publications, a Student Aid
   Inquiry P.O. Box and a correspondence system (paper and electronic)
   that provide responses to inquiries about student aid. Aid Awareness
   leverages best practices in marketing and distribution to successfully
   reach its target markets. At present, electronic media (a major SFA
   thrust) are convenient and easy to keep current. However, the students
   most in need of SFA programs, the truly needy, do not always have easy
   access to computers or the Internet. Thus, Aid Awareness will draw upon
   unique and innovative methods to bring its message to this market or to
   increase access to technology (or educate about the availability of
   access to this technology, e.g., libraries, schools). Aid Awareness
   must take into consideration these constraints as well in developing
   awareness plans. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-2 Process Depiction The
   following process flow illustrates the subprocesses within Aid
   Awareness. Student Services  Aid Awareness 7DUJHWÃ0DUNHWV $: 0RQLWRU
   'HYHORS 3URJUDP $ZDUHQHVV (IIHFWLYHQHVV 3URJUDPV $: $LGÃ$ZDUHQHVV $:
   )DFLOLWDWHÃ$FFHVVÃWR ([HFXWH )LQDQFLDOÃ6LPXODWLRQ $ZDUHQHVV
   DQGÃ0RGHOLQJ 3URJUDPV 10044162-413_v1 $: $$ 3DUWLFLSDQWV Lenders
   Students and Families Schools Guaranty Agencies Other Government
   Agencies July 15, 2000 Page III.D-3 Aid Awareness Subprocess
   Descriptions Subprocess Name Description Target Markets This subprocess
   determines which segments of the student AW-01 population (both
   students and families) to target for Aid Awareness programs and
   develops profiles to distinguish markets from one another. Develop
   Awareness This subprocess structures Aid Awareness programs to suit the
   Programs characteristics of each target market. Any target market may
   have AW-02 one or more programs associated with it. Development
   includes action planning, resource planning, implementation planning
   and coordination with other initiatives. Execute Awareness This
   subprocess executes the Awareness Programs for each target Programs
   market. AW-03 Provide Access to This subprocess facilitates access to
   models of various simulations Financial Simulation of financial aid,
   which may include cost of attendance and student Modeling financial aid
   information for a given school, estimated salaries given AW-04 a
   specific career path, and state aid program information. Monitor
   Program This subprocess analyzes data collected around the success
   Effectiveness measurement of each Aid Awareness program and
   distribution AW-05 mechanisms. Analysis identifies drivers of success
   and failure. Recommendations are structured and shared with the Develop
   Awareness Programs subprocess. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-4 Aid Awareness
   Business Requirements This section contains the subprocesses for Aid
   Awareness and the supporting business requirements. Business
   Requirement ID Business Requirement Definition Target Markets This
   subprocess identifies which segments of the student population AW-01
   (both students and families) to target for Aid Awareness programs and
   develops profiles to distinguish markets from one another. AW-01.01
   Target Markets collects data on current and potential aid recipients
   through multiple sources (e.g., census data, commissioned surveys,
   NPSAS, existing SFA databases, grant reports, etc.). AW-01.02 Target
   Markets collects data on current and potential product distribution
   (including publications) through multiple sources (e.g., Application
   Ordering System, the Public Inquiry Contract and other order
   fulfillment systems, etc.). AW-01.03 Target Markets analyzes data on
   current and potential aid recipients. Analysis tools include
   statistical packages, marketing models and comparisons to prior
   results. AW-01.04 Target Markets conducts usage studies and demand
   analysis based on distribution data. Analysis tools include statistical
   packages, marketing models and comparisons to prior results. AW-01.05
   Target Markets identifies unique segments to receive SFA messages
   (e.g., age, degree of need, language preference, etc.). AW-01.06 Target
   Markets builds profiles of target segments. AW-01.07 Target Markets
   maps program characteristics and benefits to target segments. AW-01.08
   Target Markets receives from ED divisions or other government offices
   information about initiatives or priorities within or outside the
   Department of Education which should be reflected in SFA program
   targets. AW-01.09 Target Markets collects and compiles performance
   measurement data. Develop Awareness This subprocess structures Aid
   Awareness programs to suit the Programs characteristics of each target
   market. Any target market may have one AW-02 or more programs
   associated with it. Development includes action planning, resource
   planning, implementation planning and coordination with other
   initiatives. AW-02.01 Develop Awareness Programs receives program
   information from legislative, policy and regulatory divisions. 2942
   Develop Awareness Programs develops Title IV program information for
   current and prospective students and their families. This shall include
   general information about post-secondary education and each program in
   addition to specific rules and regulations applying to each program and
   information materials/alternatives related to the programs. July 15,
   2000 Page III.D-5 Business Requirement ID Business Requirement
   Definition AW-02.02 Develop Awareness Programs identifies other ED and
   non-SFA awareness programs which may be leveraged to support SFA
   initiatives. AW-02.03 Develop Awareness Programs identifies delivery
   mechanisms (written, oral presentations, secondary-school counseling,
   Web postings, events, etc.) with the most impact for each target
   segment. AW-02.04 Develop Awareness Programs develops and updates
   educational and promotional printed and electronic publications,
   presentations, videos, sound products and other alternative formats for
   students, parents, secondary schools, college counselors and other
   student educators. AW-02.05 Develop Awareness Programs identifies
   potential partners (e.g., lenders, guaranty agencies, state
   associations, trade associations, corporate/business partners etc.)
   with access to appropriate media or with similar awareness goals.
   AW-02.06 Develop Awareness Programs negotiates with potential partners
   to jointly finalize awareness program plans. AW-02.07 Develop Awareness
   Programs nominates and appoints a panel of advisors annually consisting
   of students and parents to identify useful non-SFA college or financial
   resources for students. AW-02.08 Develop Awareness Programs facilitates
   meetings and other group interactions with the panel of advisors, focus
   groups, testees, and others. AW-02.09 Develop Awareness Programs
   conducts pilot testing of program initiatives. AW-02.10 Develop
   Awareness Programs develops performance measurement criteria for each
   program. AW-02.11 Develop Awareness Programs sets target levels for
   performance measurement criteria for each program (including outcome
   targets and process targets. AW-02.12 Develop Awareness Programs
   develops quality control processes (technical quality and content
   quality). AW-02.13 Develop Awareness Programs coordinates with media
   relations to develop communications (e.g., launches of new products and
   services, announcements and facilitation of outside communication).
   AW-02.14 Develop Awareness Programs collects and compiles performance
   measurement data. Execute Awareness This subprocess executes the
   Awareness Programs for each target Programs market. AW-03 AW-03.01
   Execute Awareness Programs disseminates awareness information and tools
   through conventional mechanisms (e.g., mail, fax, electronic media, Web
   sites, video/television, conferences/teleconferences, meetings, etc.).
   AW-03.02 Execute Awareness Programs receives inquiries directly from
   students, parents and others via telephone (e.g., 800-4-FEDAID),
   writing, electronically or by other means. AW-03.03 Execute Awareness
   Programs produces, distributes and warehouses awareness products and
   publications. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-6 Business Requirement ID
   Business Requirement Definition AW-03.04 Execute Awareness Programs
   receives and fulfills orders for products and publications inquiries
   from other interested secondary school participants. AW-03.05 Execute
   Awareness Programs tracks and maintains inventory levels for products
   and publications. AW-03.06 Execute Awareness Programs posts "Web
   Resource Guidance Panel" recommendations for quality educational
   student aid Web-sites on the SFA Web sites. AW-03.07 Executes Awareness
   Programs administers quality control processes (technical quality and
   content quality). AW-03.08 Execute Awareness Programs coordinates with
   media relations to execute communications (e.g., launches of new
   products and services, announcements and facilitation of outside
   communication). AW-03.09 Execute Awareness Programs will be consistent
   with Coded Federal Regulations 99.5, 668.41, 668.42, and 668.43.
   AW-03.10 Execute Awareness Programs collects and compiles performance
   measurement data. Provide Access to This subprocess facilitates access
   to models of various simulations of Financial Simulation financial aid,
   which may include cost of attendance and student Modeling financial aid
   information for a given school, estimated salaries given a AW-04
   specific career path, and state aid program information. 1060 Provide
   Access to Financial Simulation Modeling facilitates students' access to
   financial planning sites to request simulations of possible financial
   aid packages and financing options, which may include: * Simulating the
   students' likely eligibility for Federal financial aid * Simulating
   costs that would be incurred in attending a particular program at a
   given school * Simulating the financial aid package options that may be
   available to the student * Simulating the financing options that may be
   available to the student 1080 Provide Access to Financial Simulation
   Modeling provides students with access (references to other sites or
   materials) to information on long term debt management, including: *
   Projected potential earnings after graduation by school program *
   Projected monthly payments after graduation, based on different types
   of aid packages available AW-04.01 Provide Access to Financial
   Simulation Modeling which collects and compiles performance measurement
   data. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-7 Business Requirement ID Business
   Requirement Definition Monitor Program This subprocess analyzes data
   collected around the success Effectiveness measurement of each Aid
   Awareness program and distribution AW-05 mechanisms. Analysis
   identifies drivers of success and failure. Recommendations are
   structured and shared with the Develop Awareness Programs subprocess.
   AW-05.01 Monitor Program Effectiveness analyzes application data
   (demographics, volume, accuracy in completion, etc.), production
   volumes, distribution performance data, routine feedback loops, focus
   groups, special studies, phone statistics, cost data,
   usage/understanding of products and other data. AW-05.02 Monitor
   Program Effectiveness identifies drivers of success and failure in Aid
   Awareness programs and distribution mechanisms. AW-05.03 Monitor
   Program Effectiveness recommends actions to improve program and
   distribution performance from the target segments. AW-05.04 Monitor
   Program Effectiveness coordinates and exchanges information with
   external partners (e.g., schools, guaranty agencies, state licensing
   and accreditation agencies) to improve service delivery to students.
   AW-05.05 Monitor Program Effectiveness develops action plans resulting
   from the quality control process (technical quality and content
   quality). AW-05.06 Monitor Program Effectiveness collects and compiles
   performance measurement data. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-8 Student
   Services  Aid Application Process Description This process collects and
   organizes application information for direct loans, verifies this
   information, and assists in the creation of aid packages for schools
   and students. Aid Application is responsible for the design of the
   physical application form. Aid Application enables potential students
   to apply through the communication medium of their choice, including
   the Internet (e.g., FAFSA renewal application on the Web) or
   traditional mail channels. As information comes in to SFA, it is
   organized and automatically verified. This information is then used to
   calculate and report the participant's Expected Family Contribution
   (EFC) to schools who put together aid packages. Decisions on the
   acceptance or rejection of aid packages are reported back to SFA.
   Process Depiction The goal of the Aid Application process is to
   efficiently collect information from potential students in an effort to
   rapidly determine their financial needs and notify them of their aid
   package choices. Students rely on the financial aid decision as their
   choice of school often hinges on its outcome. The following diagram
   illustrates the subprocesses within Aid Application. Student Services
   Aid Application 'HVLJQÃDQGÃ'LVWULEXWLRQÃRI $SSOLFDWLRQÃ)RUPV $$ 0DQDJH
   $SSOLFDWLRQ $$ 0DQDJHÃ$LG 3DFNDJH $LGÃ$SSOLFDWLRQ $$ 2EWDLQÃ(OLJLELOLW\
   $VVHVVÃ3DUWLFLSDQW $VVHVVPHQW (OLJLELOLW\ ,QIRUPDWLRQ $$ $$
   10044162-412 3DUWLFLSDQWV Students Schools Other Government Agencies
   July 15, 2000 Page III.D-9 Aid Application Subprocess Descriptions
   Subprocess Name Definition Design and This subprocess reflects changes
   to the law, regulation, and Distribution of community input resulting
   in redesigned application and renewal Application Forms application
   forms. This activity is also responsible for the AA-01 production and
   distribution of these forms across a number of distribution channels.
   Manage Application This subprocess collects the information on the
   financial aid AA-02 application (for loans and grants disbursed by ED)
   received from the participant (including PLUS loans). Other information
   maintained by this activity includes, corrections to the application,
   financial aid applications, borrower signature of Direct Loan
   promissory note(s), and the waiver to release information from other
   external entities. The creation and maintenance of PINs and/or digital
   signatures is also managed by this subprocess. Obtain Eligibility This
   subprocess requests and receives information from other Assessment
   external entities to confirm information contained in the Information
   participant's financial aid application. AA-03 Assess Participant This
   subprocess calculates estimated family contribution (EFC); Eligibility
   determines eligibility; and notifies the participant and other AA-04
   authorized parties (e.g., schools, state agencies) of eligibility
   determination. The Student Aid Report (SAR) is an output to Schools
   Manage Aid Package This subprocess supports packaging, including
   providing AA-05 applicant aid history to schools to assist them in
   creating aid packages, and forwarding aid package information to the
   participant. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-10 Aid Application Business
   Requirements This section contains the subprocesses for Aid Application
   and the supporting business requirements. Business Requirement ID
   Business Requirement Definition Design and This subprocess reflects
   changes to the law, regulation and Distribution of community input
   resulting in redesigned application and renewal Application Forms
   application over the Web forms. This subprocess is also responsible
   AA-01 for the production and distribution of these forms across a
   number of distribution channels. AA-01.01 Design and Distribution of
   Application Forms supports the creation of a core design team,
   including members of the Education community and the Department of
   Education, states, and schools. AA-01.02 Design and Distribution of
   Application Forms collects legal and policy requirements and user
   suggestions as inputs in the creation of the Application Form. AA-01.03
   Design and Distribution of Application Forms translates legal and
   policy changes and user inputs into specific information items to be
   requested from participants. AA-01.04 Design and Distribution of
   Application Forms maintains a series of drafts of applications that are
   submitted for continuous refinement and review from the education
   community. AA-01.05 Design and Distribution of Application Forms allows
   for the input of additional requirements from the Office of Management
   and Budget (OMB). AA-01.06 Design and Distribution of Application Forms
   receives final clearance on Application format and information needs
   from the Office of Management and Budget. AA-01.07 Design and
   Distribution of Application Forms allows for subsequent development of
   various application formats including renewal and electronic formats.
   AA-01.08 Design and Distribution of Application Forms supports
   production and distribution of the paper application to the educational
   community through various channels. AA-01.09 Design and Distribution of
   Application Forms will be consistent with Coded Federal Regulation
   668.42. AA-01.10 Design and Distribution of Application Forms collects
   and compiles performance measurement data. Manage Application This
   subprocess collects and coordinates the information on the AA-02
   financial aid application received from the participant. Information
   that is also maintained by this subprocess includes the corrections to
   the application and borrower authorization to endorse financial aid
   application, borrower signature of promissory note(s), and the waiver
   to release information from other external entities. 1090 Manage
   Application allows individuals to authorize the release of specified
   data to specific schools and lenders. July 15, 2000 Page III.D-11
   Business Requirement ID Business Requirement Definition AA-02.01 Manage
   Application provides a single point of interface, through the
   generation, distribution, and management of PIN numbers or interfaces
   with external authentication sources. These authentication sources are
   used to securely access and receive student aid data and payment
   history for federal loans and Title IV aid. 1690 Manage Application
   enables participants to apply for Federal financial aid with
   application mechanisms available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
   AA-02.02 Manage Application receives completed applications from
   students (both electronic and paper based). 1711 Manage Application
   generates promissory notes for Direct Loans. 1713 Manage Application
   sends promissory notes to schools to allow schools to obtain borrower
   signatures. 1714 Manage Application sends promissory notes to borrowers
   for Direct Loans. 1715 Manage Application receives promissory notes
   from schools, sent on a borrower's behalf. 1742 Manage Application
   receives a signature/authentication from borrowers to endorse an aid
   application, promissory note, or waiver to release information to or
   from external databases. 1860 Manage Application receives up-to-date
   information on applicant's aid applications from schools. 1982 Manage
   Application provides information on the financial aid application
   process to participants. 6070 Manage Application uses the PIN number
   for confidentiality, authentication, integrity, and non-repudiation
   where required. AA-02.03 Manage Application initiates the automatic aid
   re-application process by providing the prior year aid application
   information to the participant for confirmation and/or update. The
   participant, or the school on behalf of the participant, submits the
   renewal application, as well as corrections to renewal application
   information. 1760 Manage Application renews the participant's aid
   eligibility, as required, based on data obtained from the participant's
   prior-year aid application information, corrections from the
   participant, and data from the SSA, IRS, HHS, third-party repositories,
   state agencies, and HUD CAIVRS. Manage Application also ensures
   validity of all data. AA-02.04 Manage Application obtains prior aid
   award information for each applicant. AA-02.05 Manage Application will
   be consistent with Coded Federal Regulations 668.53-668.57. AA-02.06
   Manage Application collects and compiles performance measurement data.
   July 15, 2000 Page III.D-12 Business Requirement ID Business
   Requirement Definition Obtain Eligibility This subprocess requests and
   receives information from other external Assessment entities to confirm
   information contained in participant's financial aid Information
   application. AA-03 1692 Obtain Eligibility Assessment Information
   provides the ability to register participants for the Selective Service
   if the participant requests to do so. 1750.01 Obtain Eligibility
   Assessment Information verifies with the Selective Service if the
   participant has complied with draft registration. 1750.02 Obtain
   Eligibility Assessment Information verifies the immigration status of a
   participant who is not a US citizen with the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service (INS). 1750.03 Obtain Eligibility Assessment
   Information verifies the participant's name, social security number,
   citizenship status and mortality with the Social Security
   Administration (SSA). 1750.04 Obtain Eligibility Assessment Information
   obtains application information from the Internal Revenue Service
   (IRS). 1750.05 Obtain Eligibility Assessment Information verifies the
   participant's non- taxable income information with Health and Human
   Services (HHS). 1750.06 Obtain Eligibility Assessment Information
   verifies the participant's veteran's benefits income information with
   the Veteran's Administration (VA). 1750.07 Obtain Eligibility
   Assessment Information obtains a participant's personal information
   from third party repositories created by private and state
   organizations for the purpose of maintaining student information.
   1750.10 Obtain Eligibility Assessment Information verifies the
   participant's drug conviction sentence with the D
