http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/1001dpjdrf.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit Photo Gallery


                                 [jdrf.jpg]

                            Lending helping feet

     About 4,000 walk on a sunny Sunday at UC Irvine in the ninth annual
                          "Walk to Cure Diabetes."

                                 Daily Pilot

                               October 1, 2001

   By Bryce Alderton

   Robert Foss just wants to be able to eat Snickers candy bars again and
   not feel guilty.

   So on Sunday, Foss joined an estimated 4,000 walkers at UC Irvine to
   walk in the ninth annual "Walk to Cure Diabetes" in hopes of finding a
   cure for a disease that afflicts 16 million Americans. A simultaneous
   walk also took place at Craig Regional Park in Fullerton.
   The 44-year-old Woodland Hills resident drove to Irvine Sunday to
   support finding a cure. Joining him were his mother and father, Orlene
   and Pete Foss of Newport Beach, who have been on the foundation's walk
   committee for four years. "My mom is so involved. She enjoys doing it
   so much," Robert Foss said, as he looked through his glasses at the
   walkers crossing the finish line of the three-mile course. "It's great
   to see people really involved and see that there's potential to find a
   cure. It's so exciting."
   Foss was diagnosed six years ago with Type 1 Diabetes. With that type,
   a person's pancreas produces little or no insulin, a hormone necessary
   to sustain a person's blood sugar level at a normal level.
   He has to give himself five injections of insulin per day, but the
   shots don't bother him; he's learned to live with the disease.
   "[Having diabetes] is kind of a game. You do what you can and hope you
   win the game," Foss said.
   Foss admits he sometimes has trouble keeping his blood sugar level in
   the proper range, and has learned to count the amount of carbohydrates
   he ingests into his body.
   "[Counting carbohydrates] is not easy to do," Foss said. "I like to
   cook my meals so I know what I'm putting in them. If I go to a
   restaurant, I don't always know what they're putting into [the food]."
   Sunday's walk was Foss's first in Irvine, but it won't be the last, he
   said.
   Melisa Bozza walked on Sunday in memory of Lisa Dean, her 32-year-old
   friend who died Aug. 2 after a 22-year bout with diabetes.
   "She struggled with [diabetes], but she's in a happier place now,"
   Bozza said.
   The turnout amazed Bozza.
   "This is wonderful. It's one of the best things I've been involved
   with, and I will definitely do the next [walk] when it comes up," Bozza
   said.
   Also making an appearance at the walk was Rep. Chris Cox (R-Newport
   Beach), who elicited a loud cheer from the crowd when he said, "I know
   that we will find a cure; that's the purpose of today."
   Cox counted down to kick off the walk, as a sea of blue, green and red
   shirts gathered at the starting line.
   Sunday's goal was to raise $850,000 from the two Orange County walks.
   The money will be given for research to find a cure for diabetes.
   The walks, sponsored by the Orange County Chapter of the Juvenile
   Diabetes Research Foundation International, raised more than $70
   million nationally last year. About 85 cents of every dollar raised
   goes directly to support diabetes research and education.
