http://www.treasurydirect.gov/cc/ccindex.htm

   About Us

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

                              Law and Guidance

   This page can take you to the various legal information we provide on
   our web site. This page also can take you to some legal information on
   the web site of the U.S. Treasury Department. If you're a lawyer, an
   officer at a financial institution or brokerage, a government official,
   or someone looking for the fine print, this page should be useful to
   you.

   Statutes, Regulations, and Federal Register Notices
     * As the name implies, this page has links to all of our authorizing
       statutes.
     * You can find links to our regulations (and circulars).
     * You also can find links to all our Federal Register items dating
       back to July 1996.

   Government Securities Market Regulation

   If you're looking for even more specific information relating to
   marketable Treasury securities or the use of collateral for certain
   government purposes, our web site has that, too.
     * You can find interpretative and educational information on the
       Government Securities Act of 1986.
     * You can find interpretative and educational information on the
       Uniform Offering Circular that is used for sale and issuance of
       Treasury securities through auctions.
     * Finally, you can learn more about the regulations governing the
       eligibility and valuation of collateral used to secure certain
       government deposits, investments, and services.

   Removing Unnecessary Barriers to Electronic Transactions

   We're interested in your views as to what we should do to remove any
   unnecessary barriers to electronic transactions.

   Article on Recent Developments Related to Treasury's "TRADES"
   Regulations

   As the name indicates, this article summarizes recent developments
   related Treasury's "TRADES" Regulations. The TRADES regulations govern
   holdings of marketable Treasury securities outside of TreasuryDirect.
   They were enacted in 1996.

   Frauds, Phonies and Scams

   If you work for or with a financial institution, find out more about a
   number of fraudulent schemes and phony financial instruments involving
   what are claimed to be U.S. Treasury securities.

   Misuse of Treasury Names, Terms, Symbols, Stationary, and Other Items

   Learn about the rules that govern the use of Treasury names, terms,
   symbols, stationery, and other items. These rules are frequently broken
   by businesses in an attempt to deceive recipients into thinking that
   their junk mail is actually important U.S. Treasury mail. If you've
   received such a mailing, you can read about how to help us stop this
   type of deception.

   Series I and Series EE Savings Bond Information Statements

   We've written these plain language information statement to help
   investors understand investment considerations related to Series I and
   EE bonds.

   Freedom of Information Act Requests

   There's a whole lot of information on our Internet site, but not
   everything is here. This page outlines the procedures you can use to
   obtain some of the information that's not on our site.

   We've posted several pages dedicated to disclosing our progress on
   achieving century date change readiness.

   Privacy and Legal Notices

   These pages contain the legal warnings that you'll find on most sites,
   but also spell out in detail the privacy terms that we abide by
   whenever you visit our site. You'll find this privacy information of
   comfort if you're thinking about doing business online with us.

   Treasury Department's Legal Division

   At the site of the U.S. Treasury, you can learn more about Treasury
   Department's Legal Division, including the work done by the Chief
   Counsel's Office at the Bureau of the Public Debt.   You can also read
   up on current job openings and other useful material about careers in
   Treasury's Legal Division.

                           Updated April 19, 2001
