http://international.dep.anl.gov/INTLO.htm

   expbannd.gif (1160 bytes)

                          exphombd.gif (189 bytes)

                               [exphorsa.gif]

                         Argonne National Laboratory
                         Washington, DC  20024-2168
                           Phone:  (202) 488-2405
                            Fax:  (202) 488-2404

                               [exphorsa.gif]

                               INTLO Purposes

   The primary function of the ANL/INTLO Washington, D.C. Office is to
   provide programmatic and administrative support to the Department of
   State regarding non-Safeguards International Atomic Energy Agency
   (IAEA) matters. Specifically, administrative support is provided
   relating to U.S. nominations for IAEA technical meetings, reviews of
   IAEA fellowship placement requests, providing U.S. experts to the IAEA
   for long-term assignments, processing IAEA requests for the U.S. to
   host IAEA meetings, training courses, symposia, etc. and acting as a
   general information clearinghouse for both the public and private
   sectors regarding non-Safeguards IAEA activities. This office creates
   and updates procedures used by the U.S. Mission to the IAEA in Vienna,
   Austria, for communicating with Washington regarding official responses
   to IAEA communications and requests. In many cases, the U.S. is asked
   to nominate a participant for such meetings. The ANL office ensures
   that these requests and the relevant information is distributed to the
   concerned U.S. agencies, and that the appropriate response is made on a
   timely basis. Weekly reports are compiled and distributed to all
   concerned showing the status of all pending nominations. The ANL Office
   is responsible for maintaining records, including budget records, of
   Cost Free Experts funded by the United States.

   In addition, the office plays a lead role in the many daily
   programmatic activities of the U.S.-IAEA relationship. The office has
   frequent contact the U.S. Mission in Vienna and other U.S. government
   agencies to effectuate this work. The office also handles reviews and
   reports on particular issues, participates in meetings and discussions,
   contributes to the drafting of position papers, instruction cables, and
   recommendations on policy matters. The office also acts as a
   secretariat for various regular meetings such as INTLO.

   The ANL Office also provides the Senior Program Manager and the
   Director of the Division of Educational Programs (DEP) with
   informational updates regarding a myriad of U.S./IAEA interactions and
   U.S. policy decisions.


                               [exphorsa.gif]

                          exphombd.gif (189 bytes)
