http://www.ows.doleta.gov/foreign/h-2a.asp

   Link to DOL Home Page
   Foreign Labor Certification
   Photos representing the workforce - Digital Imagery© copyright 2001
   PhotoDisc, Inc.

   U.S. Department of Labor Seal
   www.ows.doleta.gov
   [Skip to Content]  Frequently Asked Questions  |  Site map



       OWS > FLC > H-2A


                                              On This Page



                                                * Period of Validity
                                                * Qualifying Criteria
                                                Employer Compliance
                                                Process for Filing
                                                Forms & Instructions
                                                Program Regulations & FAQs

   H-2A Certification for Temporary or Seasonal Agricultural Work
   The H-2A temporary agricultural program establishes a means for
   agricultural employers who anticipate a shortage of domestic workers to
   bring nonimmigrant foreign workers to the U.S. to perform agricultural
   labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature. Before the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) can approve an employer's
   petition for such workers, the employer must file an application with
   the Department stating that there are not sufficient workers who are
   able, willing, qualified, and available, and that the employment of
   aliens will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of
   similarly employed U.S. workers. The statute and Departmental
   regulations provide for numerous worker protections and employer
   requirements with respect to wages and working conditions that do not
   apply to nonagricultural programs. The Department's Wage and Hour
   Division, Employment Standards Administration (ESA) has responsibility
   for enforcing provisions of worker contracts.
   "Temporary or seasonal nature" means employment performed at certain
   seasons of the year, usually in relation to the production and/or
   harvesting of a crop, or for a limited time period of less than one
   year when an employer can show that the need for the foreign workers(s)
   is truly temporary.

   Qualifying Criteria
   The following general categories of individuals or organizations may
   file an application:
     * An agricultural employer who anticipates a shortage of U.S. workers
       needed to perform agricultural labor or services of a temporary or
       seasonal nature, may file an application requesting temporary
       foreign agricultural labor certification. "Temporary or seasonal
       nature" means employment performed at certain seasons of the year,
       usually in relation to the production and/or harvesting of a crop,
       or for a limited time period of less than one year when an employer
       can show that the need for the foreign worker(s) is truly
       temporary.
     * The employer may be an individual proprietorship, a partnership or
       a corporation. An association of agricultural producers may file as
       a sole employer, a joint employer with its members, or as an agent
       of its members.
     * An authorized agent, whether an individual (e.g., and attorney) or
       an entity (e.g., an association), may file an application on behalf
       of an employer. Associations may file master applications on behalf
       of their members.

   Many of the benefits that must be included in a job offer and other
   conditions that must be satisfied will be dependent upon what
   prevailing practices exist in the same occupation, crop and area.
   Employers are advised that it is desirable to make an independent
   determination of factors such as prevailing wages and employer
   practices before filing an application.
   An employer who files an application for temporary foreign labor
   certification pursuant to H-2A regulations must meet the following
   specific conditions:

   Recruitment: The employer must agree to engage in independent positive
   recruitment of U.S. workers. This means an active effort, including
   newspaper and radio advertising in areas of expected labor supply. Such
   recruitment must be at least equivalent to that conducted by non-H-2A
   agricultural employers in the same or similar crops and area to secure
   U.S. workers. This must be an effort independent of and in addition to
   the efforts of the SWA . In establishing worker qualifications and/or
   job specifications, the employer must designate only those
   qualifications and specifications which are essential to carrying out
   the job and which are normally required by other employers who do not
   hire foreign workers.
   Wages: The wage or rate of pay must be the same for U.S. workers and
   H-2A workers. The hourly rate must also be at least as high as the
   applicable Adverse Effect Wage Rate (AEWR), federal or state minimum
   wage, or the applicable prevailing hourly wage rate, whichever is
   higher. The Adverse Effect Wage Rate is established every year by the
   Department of Labor for every state except Alaska. Employers should
   consult with the SWA or the Department of Labor regional office to
   determine what the rate is for their state.
   If a worker will be paid on a piece rate basis, the worker must be paid
   the prevailing piece as determined by the SWA.  If the piece rate does
   not result in average hourly piece rate earnings during the pay period
   at least equal to the amount the worker would have earned had the
   worker been paid at the hourly rate, then the workers pay must be
   supplemented to the equivalent hourly level. The piece rate offered
   must be no less than what is prevailing in the area for the same crop
   and/or activity.
   Housing: The employer must provide free housing to all workers who are
   not reasonably able to return to their residences the same day. Such
   housing must be inspected and approved according to appropriate
   standards. Housing provided by the employer shall meet the full set of
   DOL Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards set
   forth at 29 CFR 1910.142 ro the full set of standards at
   654.404-645.417. Rental housing which meets local or state health and
   safety standards also may be provided.

   Meals: The employer must provide either three meals a day to each
   worker or furnish free and convenient cooking and kitchen facilities
   for workers to prepare their own meals. If meals are provided, then the
   employer may charge each worker a certain amount per day for the three
   meals.
   Transportation: The amount of transportation payment shall be no less
   (and shall not be required to be more) than the most economical and
   reasonable similar common carrier transportation charges for the
   distances involved.  The employer is responsible for the following
   different types of transportation of workers: (1) After a worker has
   completed fifty percent of the work contract period, the employer must
   reimburse the worker for the cost of transportation and subsistence
   from the place of recruitment to the place of work if such costs were
   borne by the worker. (2) The employer must provide free transportation
   between the employers housing and the worksite for any worker who is
   provided housing. (3) Upon completion of the work contract, the
   employer must pay economic costs of a workers subsistence and return
   transportation to the place of recruitment. Special conditions apply
   when the worker will not be returning to the place of recruitment
   because of another job. If the employer must advance transportation
   costs to foreign workers or provide transportation, the employer must
   advance such costs or provide transportation to U.S. workers as well.
   In addition, if it is prevailing practice in the occupation to provide
   transportation, the employer must provide transportation to U.S.
   worker, as well.
   Workers Compensation Insurance: The employer must provide workers
   compensation insurance where it is required by state law. Where state
   law does not require it, the employer must provide equivalent insurance
   for all workers. Proof of insurance coverage must be provided to the
   regional administrator before certification is granted.
   Tools and Supplies: The employer must furnish at no cost to the worker
   all tools and supplies necessary to carry out the work, unless it is
   common practice in the area and occupation for the worker to provide
   certain items.
   Three-Fourths Guarantee: The employer must guarantee to offer each
   worker employment for at least three-fourths of the workdays in the
   work contract period and any extensions. If the employer affords less
   employment, then the employer must pay the amount which the worker
   would have earned had the worker been employed the guaranteed number of
   days.
   Fifty Percent Rule: The employer must hire any qualified and eligible
   U.S. worker who applies for a job until fifty percent (50%) of the
   period of the work contract has elapsed.
   Labor Dispute: The employer must assure that the job opportunity for
   which H-2A certification is being requested is not vacant because the
   former occupant is on strike or is being locked out in the course of a
   labor dispute.
   Certification Fee: A fee will be charged to an employer granted
   temporary, foreign agricultural, labor certification. The fee is $100,
   plus $10 for each job opportunity certified, up to a maximum fee of
   $1,000 for each certification granted.
   Other Conditions: The employer must keep accurate records with respect
   to a worker's earnings. The worker must be provided with a complete
   statement of hours worked and related earnings on each payday. The
   employer must pay the worker at least twice monthly or more frequently
   if it is the prevailing practice to do so. The employer must provide a
   copy of a work contract or the job order to each worker.
   Process for Filing
   When To Apply
   An employer should observe the following time considerations when
   applying for H-2A certification:
     * A complete labor certification application must be filed with and
       received by the appropriate regional administrator and local SWA at
       least forty-five (45) calendar days before the first date on which
       workers are needed.  If the initial application is accepted or
       amended within the required time frame and complies with the
       regulations, the regional administrator will make a certification
       determination thirty (30) calendar days before the date on which
       the workers are needed. Delays in obtaining an acceptable
       application beyond the time permitted in regulations will delay the
       certification determination. Employers are encouraged to file
       before the minimum forty-five (45) calendar-day requirement. This
       allows more time for review, discussion, and amendment, if
       necessary.
     * Employers are encouraged to consult with the U.S. Department of
       Labor, Employment and Training Administration regional office and
       SWA staff for guidance and assistance well before the forty-five
       calendar day filing period.
     * In emergency situations the regional administrator may waive the
       time period specified, provided the regional administrator has an
       opportunity to obtain sufficient labor market information on an
       expedited basis in order to make a determination of U.S. worker
       availability. None of the minimum conditions of employment (wages,
       housing, other benefits) are waived, however.

   How To Apply
   Applications may be filed using any of the methods below:
     * Filed in person with the appropriate regional administrator and
       local SWA;
     * Mailed to the appropriate regional administrator and local office
       of the SWA by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
     * Delivered by guaranteed commercial delivery to the appropriate
       regional administrator and local office of the SWA.

   Review of Applications
   The regional administrator will review an employer's application
   promptly. Normally, within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of an
   application, the regional administrator will notify the employer in
   writing of the decision to accept or reject an employer's application.
   Copies of the notification will be sent to the SWA and to the employer
   by means normally assuring next day delivery.
   Applications Accepted for Consideration
   If the application is accepted for consideration, the regional
   administrator will notify the employer in writing. The regional
   administrators notice of acceptance:
     * will inform the employer and the SWA of specific efforts expected
       of them regarding recruitment of U.S. workers;
     * will require that the job order be placed into appropriate
       intrastate and interstate clearances; and
     * may require the employer to engage in independent positive
       recruitment efforts within a multi-state region of traditional or
       expected labor supply if the regional administrator determines
       there is a sufficient supply of labor to be recruited.

   Applications Not Accepted for Consideration
   If the application is not accepted for consideration, then the regional
   administrator will notify the employer (copy to the SWA) in writing
   within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the application. The
   regional administrators notice of nonacceptance must state:
     * why the employer's application is not acceptable for consideration;
     * what changes are required for the regional administrator to accept
       the application for consideration;
     * that the employer has five (5) calendar days from the date of the
       regional administrators notice in which to resubmit the application
       with modifications requested by the regional administrator to
       correct any deficiencies; and
     * what procedures the employer may use to appeal the regional
       administrators nonacceptance.

   Resubmittal of Amended Applications
   An employer may choose to resubmit an application with modifications
   required by the regional administrator in his/her notice of
   nonacceptance. In such instances, an employer should file the amended
   application within five calendar days of the regional administrators
   notice of nonacceptance. The amended application must be filed with the
   regional administrator (with a copy to the SWA). Delays in doing so
   will result in delaying a certification determination.
   Appeals of Notices of Nonacceptance
   The regional administrator will inform the employer about the system of
   appeals provided for in the regulations.
   Recruitment of U.S. Workers
   Upon receipt of an employer's application for temporary foreign
   agricultural labor certification, the SWA must promptly prepare a local
   job order and begin recruiting U.S. workers in the area of intended
   employment.
   After an application is accepted for consideration, the regional
   administrator will direct the centralized location of the SWA to
   prepare an agricultural clearance order to permit the recruitment of
   U.S. workers by the employment service system on an intrastate and
   interstate basis.

   After an employer's application is accepted for consideration, the
   regional administrator will require the employer to independently
   engage in specific positive recruitment efforts within a multi-state
   region of traditional or expected labor supply if the regional
   administrator determines there is a sufficient supply of labor to be
   recruited.

   Certifications Denied
   The regional administrator will deny certifications for any of the
   following reasons:
     * The application did not meet the required time frames (except in
       emergency situations) and there is not enough time to test the
       availability of U.S. workers;
     * Enough able, willing, and qualified eligible U.S. workers are
       available to fill all the employer's job opportunities. (In the
       event such workers do not report when needed, there is a process
       for a later redetermination);
     * The employer has not complied with the worker's compensation
       requirements;
     * The employer has not satisfactorily complied with positive
       recruitment requirements;
     * The employer, since the application was accepted for consideration,
       has adversely affected the wages, working conditions, or benefits
       of U.S. workers; and/or
     * After appropriate notice and opportunity for a hearing, the
       regional administrator determines that the employer has
       substantially violated a material term or condition of a previous
       H-2A certification within the last two years.

   If the regional administrator denies certification, then the regional
   administrator must notify the employer (with copy to the SWA) by means
   calculated to assure next-day delivery. The notice of denial must state
   the reasons the certification was denied and offer the employer an
   opportunity for appeal.
   Appeals of Denials of Certifications
   The regional administrator will inform the employer about the system of
   appeals provided for in the regulations.
   Certifications Granted
   If the regional administrator determines that the employer has complied
   with the recruitment assurances, the adverse effect criteria, all time
   requirements and other appropriate requirements established by law and
   regulation, then the regional administrator will grant the temporary
   foreign agricultural labor certification for the number of job
   opportunities for which it has been determined there are not sufficient
   U.S. workers available. After certification has been granted, the
   employer must continue to recruit U.S. workers until the H-2A workers
   have departed for the place of work. In addition, the SWA must continue
   to refer to the employer qualified and eligible U.S. workers who are
   seeking employment and who apply up to fifty percent of the contract
   period, and the employer must hire these U.S. workers.
   Violations, Penalties, and Sanctions
   The Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration
   (ESA) of the U.S. Department of Labor has a primary role in
   investigating and enforcing the terms and conditions of employment.
   ESA is be responsible for enforcing the contractual obligations
   employers have toward employees, and may assess civil money penalties
   and recover unpaid wages. Administrative proceedings and/or injunctive
   actions through federal courts may be instituted to compel compliance
   with an employer's contractual obligations to employees.
   The Employment and Training Administration (ETA) enforces other aspects
   of the laws and regulations. ETA is be responsible for administering
   sanctions relating to substantial violations of the regulations (denial
   of certification for up to three years) and less than substantial
   violations of the regulations (reductions of one-fourth of job
   opportunities certified).
   Appeals of Employer Penalties
   The regional administrator will inform the employer about the system of
   appeals provided for in the regulations.
   Forms & Instructions
   Form ETA 750
   Instructions for ETA Form 750
   Form ETA 790 & Attachments
   Instructions for Form ETA 790 & Attachments
   Program Regulations & FAQs
   20 CFR 655.100 - .199
   Immigration Control and Reform Act (ICRA) of 1986
   FAQs
   Premium Processing http://www.ins.gov/graphics/howdoi/prem_process.htm


     LCA Online
     Application
     About FLC
                    Mission
                    Organization
                    How do I...
                    Policy/Regs

     Hiring Foreign
     Workers
                     Permanent
                    H-1B
                    H-1C
                    H-2A
                    H-2B
                    D-1

     Forms and
     Instructions
                    ETA 9035
                    ETA 750
                    All Forms

     Prevailing Wage
     Information
                    Online Wage
                    Library
                    Adverse Wage
                    Effect
                    OES

     Processing Times
      LCA Numbers   LCA Numbers

     Related Links

     Contacts

   Back to Top Back to Top
                                                         www.doleta.gov
     ___________________________________________________________________

          Contact Us | Privacy and Security Statement | Disclaimers
