http://www.tnwb.uscourts.gov/Pages/faq.htm


   bar_thin.gif (828 bytes)

                                                United States Bankruptcy Court
                                                 Western District of Tennessee



   Home
   Court Sites and Info
   Chambers
   Calendar
   Meeting of Creditors
   Opinions
   Forms
   Local Rules
   Filing Fees
   Case Closures &
        Conversions
   Mailing Addresses
   Electronic Access
        VCIS/PACER
   Drop Boxes
   Filing Statistics
   Job Opportunities
   FAQ
   Feedback
   Related Links
   Electronic Noticing
   Announcements
   Updated 9/17/2001
   bar_thin.gif (828 bytes)

                  Frequently Asked Questions [question.gif]

I'd like a printed list of all the bankruptcy cases filed between January 1,
1998 to date - how do I get that?

   There are a limited number of reports which the Clerk's office may
   produce for outside individuals or entities. You may contact the Clerk
   of Court at the following address, in writing, to have your request
   considered:

     United States Bankruptcy Court
     Jed G. Weintraub, Clerk of Court
     200 Jefferson Avenue
     Memphis, Tennessee 38103

Is the Clerk of Court elected or appointed?

   The Clerk of Court is an appointed position.

Can I make my wage earner payments at the Clerk's office?

   No. Payments can be made only to the appropriate Chapter 13 Trustee's
   office. The address of the Standing Chapter 13 Trustee's for the
   Western District of Tennessee are:


     Western Division (Memphis)    Eastern Division (Jackson)
     Chapter 13 Trustees           Chapter 13 Trustee
     200 Jefferson Avenue          Harvard Oaks
     Suite 1113                    250 North Parkway
     Memphis, Tennessee 38103-2352 Jackson, TN 38305
                                   (Mailing address: P.O. Box 1313
                                   Jackson, TN 38302-1313)

   Inquiries regarding Chapter 13 payment information may be directed to
   the following numbers:


     Western Division (Memphis) Eastern Division (Jackson)
     (901) 576-1313             (901) 664-1313

I need to attend the first meeting of creditors - where is the hearing room
located?

     * The hearing room for the First Meeting of Creditors in Memphis is
       located on the
       1^st floor of One Memphis Place - 200 Jefferson Avenue.
     * The hearing room for the First Meeting of Creditors in Jackson is
       located on the
       1^st floor at 202 W. Lafayette.

How do I obtain a copy of my bankruptcy petition?

     * For Memphis cases, contact the records department of the Clerk's
       office at
       (901) 328-3500.
     * For Jackson cases, contact the records department of the Clerk's
       office at
       (901) 421-9300.

   If your bankruptcy case is still active, the file should be in the
   Clerk's office. There is a search fee of $20.00, plus $.50 per page of
   material to be copied.

   If the case is closed, the file may have been transferred to the
   Federal Records Center. A staff member can provide you with the
   telephone number to the Federal Records Center in Atlanta, Georgia so
   that you may make arrangements for your file to be copied.

   Note: If the case was a business Chapter 11, the Clerk's office will
   have to order the file back for you. There is a recall fee of $25.00,
   plus $.50 per page of material to be copied. You may view the file in
   the Clerk's office or pay an additional $15 search fee and $.50 per
   page copy fee.

May I get copies of someone else's bankruptcy petition?

   Yes. Copies of court documents are available for $.50 per page. If you
   wish certified copies, there is an additional $5.00 certification fee.

Can you take something off of my credit report?

   No. The Court has no access to individual or business credit ratings or
   reports.

How long will it be before I may file bankruptcy again?

   Contact your attorney for information regarding when you may or may not
   file a bankruptcy petition or refer to the United States Bankruptcy
   Code.

Can you help me prepare my bankruptcy petition?

   No. The Clerk's office does not provide legal assistance of any kind.

I filed a bankruptcy case and received my discharge in 1991. A creditor now
tells me that I need a copy of my discharge - how do I get that?

   Contact the records department of the Clerk's office to receive the
   appropriate Federal Records Center information regarding the location
   of a closed bankruptcy case file.

What is the difference between a discharge and a dismissal?

   A discharge is a release of a debtor from personal liability for
   certain dischargeable debts which prohibits creditors from ever taking
   any action against the debtor to collect those debts.  Some debts are
   not dischargeable and the debtor is responsible for those debts after
   bankruptcy.  If a case is terminated for any reason before a discharge
   has been issued, that case is 'dismissed'.  For more information,
   please review The Discharge in Bankruptcy in our Informational Forms
   section or contact your attorney.

I just received a 'Discharge of Debtor' form in the mail. What is it?

   This form is indication that the debts owed by the debtor have been
   fully discharged. You may wish to retain this form in a safe place, as
   you may be asked by future creditors to provide a copy.

Can you fax a copy of my discharge to me? My creditor listing(s)?

   No. The Clerk's office does not provide facsimile copying of documents.
   You must either appear in person at the records counter of the Clerk's
   office or submit a request in writing to the appropriate Clerk's
   office.

I am a creditor in a bankruptcy case. May I fax the Court a completed proof
of claim form?

   No. The Clerk's office does not accept fax documents.

Am I listed as a creditor in case number _______ or case name ________?

   A $15.00 search fee per case may be assessed for information that is
   not readily available.

   You are welcome to come to our office(s) and access our database using
   the computer systems available in the public area free of charge to
   find information.

How far back do you keep computerized records?

   Our computerized records begin with any case which was open on or after
   September 1, 1989 and are continuous thereafter.

   Cases open as of September 1, 1989 through cases filed as of June 30,
   1991 can be viewed in the public area on the 'NIBS' computer database.
   Cases which have been filed after July 1, 1991 will be found on the
   'WebCHASER' database.

May I file bankruptcy without an attorney?

   Yes, we do accept pro se filings in this district.

   If you would like us to send you a packet of information on pro se
   filing, please forward your name and mailing address and we'll be happy
   to get you the information.

How can I obtain a copy of a case transcript or tape recording?


   How can I obtain a copy of a case transcript or tape recording?

   Copies of case transcripts and tape recordings may be obtained for a
   fee by contacting the appropriate Court Clerks office and requesting to
   speak with the Electronic Court Recorder Operator (ECRO) for the judge
   who heard the case.


   Memphis cases
   (Judges Kennedy, Brown, Latta)
   901-328-3500 Jackson cases
   (Judge Boswell)
   901-421-9300


   Actual charges for transcripts will vary depending upon the transcript
   ordered.

   Fee must be paid in advance. The ECRO will supply you with cost and
   other ordering information.





   Last modified: March 13, 2001

     Copyright © United States Bankruptcy Court, Western District of TN
                        1999-2001 All Rights reserved
   Send e-mail to webmaster_tnwb@tnwb.uscourts.gov with questions or
   comments about this web site.
