http://secstate.wa.gov/news/news_release.asp?news_id=30

                        Washington Secretary of State


   Home
   Overview
   Archives
   Corporations
   Elections
   Special Programs - ACP, Apostilles, Charities, EA, Inititatives, Medals
   of Merit & Valor, Productivity Board, Oral History, State Seal, State
   Flag
   Voter Services
   News Releases
   Links

   [go.gif]-Submit

                              Register & Vote!

                                    space

                                                    [USEMAP:buttons_1.gif]
   space
      space

       Secretary of State Releases Report on Blanket Primary Hearings

   NEWS RELEASE
   Issued: January 12, 2001
   OLYMPIA --To no one's surprise, Washington voters are strongly in favor
   of retaining this state's 65-year-old "blanket" primary system - or at
   least as many features of the blanket primary as possible.
   That is the "fundamental lesson" of public hearings held by the
   Secretary of State's office last year on alternatives to the blanket
   primary. A report on the hearings, compiled by outgoing Secretary of
   State Ralph Munro, was presented to the Legislature today by
   newly-elected Secretary of State Sam Reed.
   The statewide hearings were held by Munro in response to last June's
   U.S. Supreme Court ruling which declared the blanket primary invalid in
   California. The high court held that states may not compel political
   parties to use the results of a blanket primary to select nominees to
   the general election ballot.
   Washington state's blanket primary system, adopted by initiative in
   1935, allows voters to alternate between political parties when voting
   to nominate candidates. The court did not declare that the blanket
   primary is unconstitutional, only that it cannot be used without the
   consent of the political parties. Washington state's Democratic and
   Republican party organizations have both indicated that they want the
   blanket primary changed.
   The report, which summarizes public input from 11 hearings around the
   state, notes that "most of the voters (in Washington) are independent
   and want to continue to participate in the primary without having to
   affiliate with a political party and without being restricted to the
   candidates of only one party in the primary."
   The report went on to say that voters particularly objected to any
   requirement that they make a public declaration of party affiliation,
   either by party registration or by making a choice at the polls.
   "Voters highly value the independence and privacy that are the
   distinctive characteristics of the blanket primary," it said.
   According to the report, there was no clear public consensus on a
   specific alternative to the blanket primary. Of the various
   alternatives outlined at the hearings, the report found that there was
   more support for a "qualifying primary" than any other option. Under
   this system, all voters are allowed to participate and to choose from
   among all candidates for office without regard to party affiliation.
   The top two candidates at that election then go on the general election
   ballot without regard to party, even if they are both from the same
   party. One state (Louisiana) uses this system.
   Most states use either an "open" primary, in which voters must select a
   ballot containing candidates of only one party, or a "closed" primary,
   in which voters must register by political party to vote in that
   party's primary.
   The report was prepared to provide the Legislature and the incoming
   Secretary of State with a summary of public views on the blanket
   primary issue, and does not recommend a specific alternative.
   Reed has said he wants to keep the state's nominating system as close
   to the blanket primary as possible. "The public's voice is loud and
   clear on this issue," he said. "We hear it, and we hope the political
   parties and the Legislature hear it as well."
   Reed has not yet endorsed a specific plan, saying he wants to work with
   the Governor, the Legislature, and the political parties to develop a
   system that would be in keeping with the public's wishes.

                                    -30-


   Top
      Back

               Home  |  Overview  |  Archives  |  Corporations
   Elections  |  Special Programs  |  News Releases  |  Voter Services  |
                                    Links
