http://environmental.ksc.nasa.gov/cultural/cultural.htm

                        Environmental Programs Banner

                      Cultural Resource Management Plan
    Cultural resources are the physical remains of a people's way of life
   that archaeologists and historians study to try to interpret how people
    lived. Cultural resources are important because they help us to learn
       about our past. These tangible remains help us understand other
   cultures, appreciate architecture and engineering, and learn about past
    accomplishments. Furthermore, they offer educational and recreational
     opportunities and provide links to our past. The Federal government
   recognizes the value of irreplaceable prehistoric and historic cultural
    resources and is committed to protect them from damage. Numerous laws
                have been passed to protect these resources.

    KSC contains resources from prehistoric and historic elements. Today,
         KSC's cultural resources management program, which includes
    archaeology, history, and historic architecture, employs personnel to
      identify, evaluate, and preserve cultural and historic resources
    encountered at planned construction projects or existing facilities.

                        Identification/Determination:
   To determine if a project will impact a historic or archeological site,
   a KSC Environmental Checklist (Form 21-608NS) is to be submitted to the
   NASA Environmental Program Office (EPO/TA-C3). EPO will then review the
   checklist to determine whether the project merits consultation with the
                 State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO).

            Point-of-Contact: Mario Busacca/321-867-8456, email:
                        Mario.Busacca-1@ksc.nasa.gov

            Return to the Environmental Program Branch Main Page


   Page Last Revised Page & Curator Information      TA-C3 Branch Chief
   November 27, 2001 Curator: Alice Smith
                           Alice.Smith-1@ksc.nasa.gov
                                Web Development:
                     JBOSC Web Development Team        Diane Callier
                                                Diane.Callier-1@ksc.nasa.gov
                        A Service of the Spaceport Services Directorate
                                   J. Chris Fairey, Director
