http://citrus.sbaonline.sba.gov/barreto/

                [Picture of Administrator Hector V. Barreto]

                              HECTOR V. BARRETO
                                ADMINISTRATOR
                     U.S. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

   By unanimous vote, the U.S. Senate confirmed Hector V. Barreto as the
       21st Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration on
       July 25, 2001. President Bush nominated him for the post.
       As SBA Administrator, Mr. Barreto directs the delivery of financial
       and business development programs to America's entrepreneurs. With
       a portfolio of direct and guaranteed business loans and disaster
       loans worth more than $45 billion, SBA is the nation's largest
       single financial backer of small business.
       Mr. Barreto has a long history with the small business community.
       As a young man, he helped his father manage a family restaurant, an
       export/import business and construction company. His father, Hector
       Barreto Sr., helped found the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.
       After receiving his B.S.B.A. degree in Management and Spanish from
       Rockhurst University in Kansas City, MO., he worked for the Miller
       Brewing Company as the South Texas Area Manager. In 1986, he moved
       to California and founded Barreto Insurance and Financial Services,
       responding to the need for financial services for Southern
       California's rapidly growing Latino population. He later launched
       an additional business as a securities broker/dealer specializing
       in retirement plans.
       Mr. Barreto is past chairman of the board for the Latin Business
       Association (LBA) in Los Angeles. During his term, he increased
       membership by 50 percent, doubled revenues and created the Latino
       Business Expo, an event that focused on procurement opportunities,
       corporate exhibitions and business education. He also founded the
       Latin Business Association Institute which provides technical
       assistance, education and development opportunities to small
       businesses.
       As a board member of the Minority Business Opportunity Committee in
       Los Angeles, he worked closely with the Los Angeles Chamber of
       Commerce and the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation to
       improve business opportunities for numerous minority groups.
       Mr. Barreto has received special recognition from the U.S.
       Congress, the California State Senate and Assembly, the County of
       Los Angeles, YMCA and American Red Cross. Hispanic Business
       Magazine recognized him as one of America's "100 Most Influential
       Hispanics."
       Mr. Barreto is a native of Kansas City, Missouri. He and his wife
       Robin have two daughters.

    Some of the files below require Acrobat Reader in order to view them.
                           Download Acrobat Reader

                            | Word | PDF | Text |

                           *Last Modified: 8-6-01
