http://www.armfor.uscourts.gov/History.htm



   court seal drawing

                     HISTORY

            Until 1920, a court-martial conviction need only have been
   approved by the officer who convened the court, with the exception of
   cases involving a general officer or a cadet and, in peacetime, the
   dismissal of an officer or a death sentence, all of which required
   Presidential action.  In wartime, the dismissal of an officer or a
   death sentence could be approved by the commanding general of an Army,
   or the commander of a territorial department or division.  The Act of
   June 4, 1920, introduced the Boards of Review consisting of three
   lawyers -- usually senior military officers -- into the process. The
   boards reviewed all cases requiring confirmation by the President as
   well as cases where the sentence included a dismissal or dishonorable
   discharge (unsuspended) or confirmation in a penitentiary, except in
   cases where the accused entered a plea of guilty.  When the Judge
   Advocate General did not concur with the ruling of the Board of Review,
   the differences would be resolved by the President.  Other records
   would be examined in the Judge Advocate General's Office and, if found
   to be legally insufficient, would be examined by the Board of Review as
   well.  If the board reached a similar conclusion, the record would be
   transmitted to the President for his decision.  The Board of Review had
   a factfinding function only in cases where the President was the
   reviewing or confirming authority.

             The Kem Amendment to the Selective Service Act of 1948, which
   was passed by the Senate by a vote of 44-39 and accepted by the House
   of Representatives, established for both the Army and the Air Force a
   Judicial Council consisting of three general officers.  The council
   considered cases involving sentences of death, life imprisonment, or
   dismissal of officers.  It also considered any case referred to it by
   the Judge Advocate General or the Board of Review.  Differences between
   the Judicial Council and the Judge Advocate General were resolved by
   the Secretary of the military department.

             On May 5, 1950, Congress enacted the Uniform Code of Military
   Justice, which provided for one or more Board of Review in each of the
   armed forces and created the United States Court of Military Appeals,
   which is now designated the United States Court of Appeals for the
   Armed Forces. The Board of Review had factfinding powers in all cases
   as well as the power to extend clemency on the sentence.  Each Board of
   Review consisted of three lawyers who usually were senior military
   judge advocates, but civilian members were also authorized.  In 1968,
   the boards were renamed the Courts of Military Review.  On October 5,
   1994, they were redesignated the Courts of Criminal Appeals.

             Until August 1, 1984, the United States Court of Appeals for
   the Armed Forces was the final appellate court empowered to review
   court-martial cases.  On that date an amendment to the Uniform Code of
   Military Justice became effective which permitted either the accused or
   the United States to seek further review by the Supreme Court of the
   United States in a limited number of cases.

        return to home page Home Page
