http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/floodhazard.html

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Flood Hazard Mapping
   Project Chief:  Mark Mastin
   Phone:253-428-3600
   Email:mcmastin@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
   Flood Risk Map

   Severe flooding from Hurricane Mitch caused large-scale damage and
   destruction to housing and infrastructure in Honduras. As the country
   works to rebuild what was lost, it needs reliable maps of
   high-flood-hazard areas. A systematic method for defining these areas
   that can be applied throughout the country is needed. This project will
   create flood-hazard maps by developing and applying a method of
   estimating the 50-year flood or the flood, which has a statistical
   probability of being equaled or exceeded 2 times in 100 years on
   average. The aerial and depth of inundation for the 50-year flood will
   be mapped at fifteen selected locations in Honduras where Mitch
   flooding caused significant damage.
   Objectives
     * Define a 50-year design flood for each selected stream reach.
     * Develop a 50-year flood elevation profile for each stream.
     * Produce a 50-year flood inundation map and summary report for each
       stream.

   Approach
   The project has three main components: hydrology, hydraulics, and
   mapping. The hydrology component involves computing the 50-year flood
   discharge for selected stream reaches. For the hydraulics component,
   channel geometry and design flood discharge data will be incorporated
   into a hydraulic model that can be used to estimate water-surface
   profiles. The mapping component will translate these water-surface
   profiles into a map product that defines the area of inundation of the
   50-year flood.
   For the hydrology component, two approaches will be explored. One will
   develop a regional regression equation that relates basin
   characteristics to the 50-year flood discharge. At stream-gaging
   stations that have recorded more than ten years of annual peak-flows,
   selected basin characteristics will be determined and regressed with
   the estimated 50-year discharge for that basin. Those characteristics
   that are statistically significant will be retained in a regional
   regression equation that will be used to estimate the 50-year discharge
   at the flood-hazard mapping sites. The second approach, which is much
   more data- and labor-intensive, will use a continuous or event-base
   rainfall/runoff model to simulate either a long-term history of annual
   peak discharges (continuous model) or the 50-year flood from a
   simulated record of annual peak flows. This method will be used on 2-3
   river basins where there is sufficient precipitation and discharge data
   available for constructing a model that can produce results with a
   reasonable level of confidence.
   The project's hydraulics component will develop a step-backwater model
   for each of the stream reaches studied. The model requires two basic
   inputs-discharge (calculated as described above) and floodplain/channel
   geometry-to produce estimates of water-surface profiles. The floodplain
   geometry will be obtained from fine-resolution, digital elevation
   models (DEMs) produced from airborne LIDAR surveys of the floodplain.
   The underwater portions of the channel geometry will be estimated from
   representative cross-sections obtained from field surveys.
   Finally, using a DEM and the estimates of water-surface profiles, areas
   and depth of inundation will be mapped. The maps will be displayed over
   geo-referenced digital raster.
   click for a larger image Poster on creating flood hazard maps in
   Honduras.           click for a larger image Poster on the flooding in
   Honduras from Hurricane Mitch.
   Cooperating Agencies
     * FUNDEMUN (Fundacion para el Desarrollo Municipa)

   Source Data
     * Atlas Geografico de Honduras, Edition 1997-1998
     * LIDAR-derived digital elevation models at 1.5 meter, cell
       resolution at the 15 study sites--Will be archived at the
       Clearinghouse
     * Hydrological flow data from SERNA (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales
       y Ambiente)
     * Digital Raster Graphics of 1:50,000 topographic maps

   Products
     * Area and Depth of Flood Inundation Maps for the 50-year flood at
       the 15 study sites
          +

            click for a larger image Preliminary Inundation Map Tegucigalpa,
                                     Honduras
     * ArcView project file that can be used to estimate the 50-year flood
       through out Honduras
     * Regression equation to estimate the 50-year flood
     * Annual precipitation map for Honduras
     * Isopluvial map of the 50-year maximum 24-hour total rainfall for
       Honduras
     * Water Resources Investigations Reports that
          + describes the methodology used in the project and results and
          + 15 individual site reports

   Locations
   Data
   Flood Hazard Data
   Project Tour
   Choluteca River The extent of flooding and the areas of damage to
   residential areas and transportation infrastructure during the Mitch
   flood are shown on this post Mitch,Open Skies aerial photo of the
   Choluteca River near Choluteca (the city of Choluteca is shown in the
   lower left of the photo). Flooding caused by Mitch affected large areas
   and sometimes changed the low-water channel location.
Ulua River This photo taken in September of 1999 on the Ulua River near
           Potrerillos shows us that flooding problems have not gone away since
           Hurricane Mitch hit the country. Planning for development and
           construction of infrastructures in or near the flood plain requires a
           systematic method to estimate the extent and elevation of probable
           flooding. The Flood-Hazard Mapping Project will provide maps of the
           50-year flood or those floods that have a statistical probability of
           being equaled or exceeded 2 times in 100 years.
   Municipalities The fifteen municipalities (red triangles) and their
   contributing watersheds that were chosen for developing flood-hazard
   maps all lie within Honduras. Scattered throughout most of the country,
   they represent only a portion of the communities affected by flooding
   during Mitch. This project intends to transfer the technology developed
   for the 15 sites to in-country hydrologists with the hope that the
   program of developing flood-hazard maps will continue for more
   municipalities and aid in preventing future flood disasters.
   Juticalpa Digital raster graphics of existing topographic maps were
   used in consultation with municipality mayors to define the areas of
   concern for flood hazard. In this example, the areas of concern in
   Juticalpa centered over the city center and major bridges. This map was
   used to define the area where high-resolution topographic surveys of
   the flood plain were needed.
   LIDAR High-resolution elevation data of the flood-hazard mapping sites
         were obtained in February and March 2000 using an airborne Light
         Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) system. LIDAR provided elevation data at
         a resolution of about every 1.5 meters with a vertical elevation
         accuracy on the order of 0.3 meters. In this preliminary sample of
         LIDAR data obtained March 1 over Tegucigalpa, natural features and
         buildings are clearly visible. The detailed digital elevation maps are
         needed to obtain cross section data for input to the hydraulic model
         used to determine flood levels and provide a base map to plot the depth
         and extent of the 50-year flood.


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/floodhazard.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Thursday, January 24, 2002
