http://www.cpaboard.wa.gov/cpe/Default.htm

   Go to Access Washington Go to the Washington State Board of Accountancy
                                    Home

   Home About Us CPA Exam Certification/Licensing Continuing Professional
   Education Firm License Quality Assurance Review Complaints and
   Violations Rules/Policies Important Alerts Frequently Asked Questions
   Forms Licensee Search

Continuing Professional Education

   Requirements

   All Washington certificate holders and licensees are subject to CPE
   requirements as a prerequisite to certificate or license renewal.

   Current CPE Requirements: The CPE requirements for licensees and
   certificate holders are described briefly below (WAC 4-25-830):

   Status: Maximum CPE Allowed in Nontechnical Areas Minimum CPE in Ethics
   Applicable to Practice in WA State Total CPE Every Three Years
   License

                                     24

                                      4
   120 (20 hours a year   minimum)
   Certificate holder

                                      4
   4
   Resident nonlicensee  firm owner

                                      4
   4

   Program Requirements: Programs must be formal. Formal means attendance
   is recorded and outlines are prepared in advance. Programs must be at
   least 50 minutes in length and conducted by a qualified instructor.

   Qualifying programs contribute to the professional competence of a CPA.
   Professional development programs of the AICPA and state societies;
   technical sessions at meetings of the AICPA, state societies and
   chapters thereof; appropriate university or college courses; formal
   organized in-firm programs; other educational programs sponsored by
   trade or professional associations; and commercially offered programs
   are usually acceptable as long as they meet the professional competence
   and formality criteria. For additional information, see WAC 4-25-831.

   CPE Program Sponsors:  Effective January 1, 2000 the Board does not
   maintain agreements with CPE Program Sponsors.   Over the last ten
   years program sponsors have done an excellent job of providing
   qualifying CPE classes to Washington CPA's.  Monitoring activities have
   not identified a single unacceptable course.  Therefore the Board
   repealed WAC 4-25-813--Continuing Professional Education--Program
   Sponsor Agreements on October 29, 1999.

   However, the Board is committed to supporting CPE program sponsors in
   their efforts to provide quality CPE to Washington's CPAs and has
   developed the attached Guidelines for CPE Sponsors and CPE Sponsor
   Questions & Answers.

   Have questions? For more information regarding CPE requirements call
   (360) 664-9191, e-mail cpalicensequestions@cpaboard.wa.gov, or see:
     * Commonly Asked Questions and Answers
     * Certificate and License Renewal Application Form
     * Board Policy--Continuing Professional Education
     * List of Approved Ethics Courses Applicable to Practice in WA State
     * WAC 4-25-830, 831, 832, and 833 for the Board rules governing CPE
       effective January 1, 2000---Note:  the Board is proposing
       amendments to the CPE rules.  Please see Board to Hold Public
       Rule-Making Hearing--January 25, 2002 for the text of the proposed
       rules.

                               [blueline.gif]

    Home | About Us | CPA Exam | Certificate/License | CPE | Firm License
     QAR | Complaints | Rules/Policies | Important Alerts | FAQs | Forms
                               Licensee Search


   Contact the Washington State Board of Accountancy.
   Please read our Disclaimer and Privacy Statement.
