http://matheson.house.gov/privacy.cfm

   [LINK]-matheson Web Site Top Banner- Click here to skip to page content

   News Let's Talk Services Answers District Kid's Zone
   background image

    The Photo Gallery | Issues | Events in Washington | Biography | Press
                           Releases | Site Index |


     Privacy Statement


     The issue of privacy is one that I believe the American people feel
     right down to the core of their being. I have posted this privacy
     statement to demonstrate my firm commitment to protecting your
     privacy.

     If you visit our site we collect and store only the following
     information:

     * The name of the domain from which you access the Internet (for
       example, aol.com, if you are connecting from an America Online
       account).
     * The date and time you access our site.
     * The Internet address of the web site from which you linked directly
       to our site or the Internet address of the computer used to link to
       our site.

     This information is used for Site Management purposes. This
     government computer system uses software programs to create summary
     statistics using this information. These statistics are used for
     such purposes as assessing the number of visitors to the different
     sections of our site, what information is of most and least
     interest, determining technical design specifications, and
     identifying system performance or problem areas.

     NOTICE: We will not obtain personally-identifying information about
     you when you visit our site, unless you choose to provide such
     information.

     If you send an E-mail message or complete a web form which contains
     personal information, we collect and store the following
     information:

     * Any personally-identifying information which you choose to provide.
       For example your mailing address, in an electronic mail message or
       web form requesting information or commenting on current
       legislative issues. Information collected in this manner is used
       solely for information and, in some cases, to respond to you.
       Please also see Security and Policy Notices posted on individual
       Member, Committee and other House office web sites for information
       on how individual offices may use the data you choose to provide
       them via forms on their sites.

     NOTICE: For site security purposes this Government computer system
     employs software programs to monitor network traffic. Anyone using
     this system consents to the monitoring of their use by system or
     security personnel.

     * Unauthorized use, tampering with or modification of this system --
       or its supporting hardware or software -- may violate federal or
       other statutes and may subject the violator to criminal and civil
       penalties. In the event of unauthorized intrusion, all relevant
       information regarding possible violation of law may be provided to
       law enforcement officials.

   If you are concerned about security of transmitting your information to
   me over the Internet, please contact my office.

     Official Seal

                          This is an official Web site of the
                         United States House of Representatives.

                Congressman Jim Matheson, U.S. House of Representatives

         410 Cannon HOB

      Washington, DC 20515

     Phone - (202) 225-3011

                           125 State Street, Rm.2311

                           Salt Lake City, UT 84138

                            Phone - (801) 524-4394

   News |
   Let's Talk  |  Services  |  Answers  |  District |  Kid's Zone
   | Privacy Policy | Site Index  | Search
