http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/guide_for_interconnecting_information_system.pdf

   NIST Special Publication X-X Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems Joan Hash, Tim Grance, Steven Peck, Jonathan Smith, Karen
   Korow-Diks C O M P U T E R S E C U R I T Y &4#(6 0QXGODGT
   Acknowledgements The authors wish to thank the U.S. Customs Service for
   use of the System Interconnection Service Agreement (ISA) guidance
   document and sample ISA, which are contained in this document. . i i
   TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
   INTRODUCTION...........................................................
   ............................................................1 1.1
   AUTHORITY..............................................................
   .............................................................1 1.2
   PURPOSE
   .......................................................................
   ........................................................1 1.3 SCOPE
   .......................................................................
   ............................................................1 1.4
   AUDIENCE...............................................................
   ..............................................................1 1.5
   OTHER APPROACHES TO SYSTEM INTERCONNECTIVITY
   .........................................................1 1.6 DOCUMENT
   STRUCTURE..............................................................
   ..........................................2 2.
   BACKGROUND.............................................................
   ............................................................3 3.
   PLANNING A SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION
   .....................................................................5
   3.1 STEP 1: ESTABLISH A JOINT PLANNING TEAM
   .......................................................................
   .5 3.2 STEP 2: DEFINE THE BUSINESS
   CASE...................................................................
   ...................5 3.4 STEP 3: PERFORM CERTIFICATION AND
   ACCREDITATION .......................................................6
   3.4 STEP 4: DETERMINE INTERCONNECTION
   REQUIREMENTS.......................................................6
   3.5 STEP 5: DOCUMENT INTERCONNECTION
   AGREEMENT............................................................9
   3.6 STEP 6: APPROVE OR REJECT SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION
   ...................................................10 4. ESTABLISHING A
   SYSTEM
   INTERCONNECTION........................................................
   ...12 4.1 STEP 1: DEVELOP AN IMPLEMENTATION
   PLAN...................................................................
   ..12 4.2 STEP 2: EXECUTE THE IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
   ...................................................................13
   4.3 STEP 3: UPDATE SYSTEM SECURITY
   PLANS..................................................................
   ........16 5. MAINTAINING A SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION
   ............................................................18 5.1
   MAINTAIN CLEAR LINES OF
   COMMUNICATION..........................................................
   .........18 5.2 MAINTAIN
   EQUIPMENT..............................................................
   .........................................19 5.3 MANAGE USER PROFILES
   .......................................................................
   ............................19 5.4 CONDUCT SECURITY REVIEWS
   .......................................................................
   ....................19 5.5 ANALYZE AUDIT
   LOGS...................................................................
   ....................................19 5.6 REPORT AND RESPOND TO
   SECURITY
   INCIDENTS..............................................................
   ..20 5.7 COORDINATE DISASTER RESPONSE AND RECOVERY ACTIVITIES
   .......................................20 5.8 PERFORM CHANGE
   MANAGEMENT.............................................................
   ........................20 5.9 MAINTAIN SYSTEM SECURITY
   PLANS..................................................................
   ...............21 6. DISCONNECTING A SYSTEM
   INERCONNECTION.........................................................
   .22 6.1 PLANNED
   DISCONNECTION..........................................................
   ........................................22 6.2 EMERGENCY
   DISCONNECTION..........................................................
   ...................................22 6.3 RESTORATION OF
   INTERCONNECTION........................................................
   ..........................23 iii APPENDIXES $33(1',; $ ,17(5&211ECTION
   SECURITY AGREEMENT........................................24 $33(1',; %
   0(025$1'8M OF UNDERSTANDING/AGREEMENT ..........................32
   $33(1',; & 6<67(0 ,1TERCONNECTION IMPLEMENTATION
   PLAN.....................38 $33(1',; ' 5()(5(1&(S
   .......................................................................
   ...........................41 LIST OF FIGURES FIGURE 2-1.
   INTERCONNECTION COMPONENTS
   ................................................................3
   FIGURE 3-1. STEPS TO PLAN A SYSTEM
   INTERCONNECTION..........................................5 FIGURE 4-1.
   STEPS TO ESTABLISH A SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION
   ............................12 FIGURE A-1. ISA SAMPLE
   .......................................................................
   .................................29 FIGURE B-1. MOU/A
   SAMPLE.................................................................
   ................................34 iv Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 AUTHORITY
   The guidelines specified herein are consistent with the requirements
   specified in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130,
   Appendix III, for system interconnection and information sharing. The
   guidelines are not mandatory. They shall not contradict existing
   standards, guidelines, or procedures used by Federal Government
   agencies for system interconnections, nor shall they contradict
   standards and guidelines made mandatory and binding on Federal agencies
   by the Secretary of Commerce under his statutory authority.
   Nongovernmental (private sector) organizations may use the guidelines
   on a voluntary basis. This document is not subject to copyright. 1.2
   PURPOSE This document provides guidance for planning, establishing,
   maintaining, and terminating interconnections between information
   systems that are owned and operated by different organizations,
   including organizations within the same Federal agency. 1.3 SCOPE This
   document is published by the National Institute of Standards and
   Technology (NIST) as recommended guidance for Federal agencies. It also
   may be used by private sector organizations. This document presents
   general guidelines for interconnecting information systems, including
   general support systems and major applications. Organizations are not
   expected to implement all of the guidelines herein; they should
   consider the guidelines in the context of their own requirements. This
   document does not address classified systems or data, and it should not
   be used for guidance on securing such systems. Federal agencies should
   rely on applicable laws, regulations, and policies for interconnecting
   systems that are used to store, process, or transmit classified data.
   1.4 AUDIENCE This document is intended for system owners, data owners,
   program managers, security officers, system architects, system
   administrators, and network administrators who are responsible for
   planning, approving, establishing, maintaining, or terminating system
   interconnections. It is written in nontechnical language for use by a
   broad audience. It does not address specific information technologies.
   1.5 OTHER APPROACHES TO SYSTEM INTERCONNECTIVITY This document provides
   a recommended approach for interconnecting information systems. It is
   recognized, however, that many organizations have interconnected
   information systems using 1 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 different approaches, and some
   organizations follow specific procedures to meet unique operational
   requirements. This document is intended only as guidance and it should
   not be construed as defining the only approach possible. It provides a
   logical framework for those organizations that have not previously
   interconnected information systems, and it provides information that
   other organizations may use to enhance the security of existing
   interconnections. Organizations should tailor the guidelines to meet
   their specific needs and requirements. 1.6 DOCUMENT STRUCTURE This
   document is organized into five sections. Section 1 introduces the
   document. Section 2 describes the benefits of interconnecting
   information systems, identifies types of system interconnections, and
   explains the risks of interconnecting systems. Sections 3 through 6
   address the interconnection lifecycle. Section 3 presents a series of
   recommended steps for planning a system interconnection. Section 4
   provides recommended steps for establishing the interconnection.
   Section 5 provided recommended steps for maintaining the
   interconnection after it is established. Section 6 provides guidelines
   for terminating the interconnection, as well as restoring it after it
   is terminated. Appendix A provides a guide for developing an
   Interconnection Security Agreement, which documents the technical
   requirements of the interconnection, as well as a sample agreement.
   Appendix B provides a guide for developing a Memorandum of
   Understanding/Agreement, which defines the responsibilities of the
   participating organizations, as well as a sample memorandum. Appendix C
   provides a guide for developing a System Interconnection Implementation
   Plan. Appendix D contains a list of references. 2 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 2. BACKGROUND A
   system interconnection is defined as the direct connection of two or
   more information systems for sharing data and other information
   resources. Organizations can realize significant benefits by
   interconnecting their information systems, such as reduced operating
   costs, greater functionality, improved efficiency, and centralized
   access to data. Interconnecting information systems may also deepen
   ties among participating organizations by promoting cooperation and
   communication. Organizations choose to interconnect their information
   systems for a variety of reasons, depending on Executive or
   Congressional mandates or their own organizational requirements. For
   example, organizations may interconnect their information systems to- S
   Exchange data and information among selected users S Provide customized
   levels of access to proprietary databases S Collaborate on joint
   projects S Provide 24/7 communications S Provide online training S
   Provide secure storage of critical data and backup files. A system
   interconnection has three basic components: two information systems
   (System A and System B) and the mechanism by which they are joined (the
   "pipe" through which data is made available, exchanged, or passed one
   way only). The components are shown in Figure 2-1. In this document, it
   is assumed that System A and System B operate under different
   management and are owned by different organizations, including
   organizations within the same agency. Pipe System System A B Figure
   2-1. Interconnection Components Organizations can connect their
   information systems using a dedicated line that is owned by one of the
   organizations or is leased from a third party (e.g., an Integrated
   Services Digital Network [ISDN], T1, or T3 line). The private or leased
   line is the pipe that connects the information systems. In many cases,
   this solution is expensive, but it can provide a high level of security
   for the interconnected systems because the line can be breached only
   through a direct physical intrusion, such as a telephone tap. 3 Guide
   for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 A less
   expensive alternative for many organizations is to connect systems over
   a public network (e.g., the Internet), using a virtual private network
   (VPN). A VPN is a data network that enables two or more parties to
   communicate securely across a public network by creating a private
   connection, or "tunnel," between them. This replaces the need to rely
   on privately owned or leased lines. Data transmitted over a public
   network can be intercepted by unauthorized parties, however,
   necessitating the use of encryption to ensure data confidentiality and
   integrity. There are varying levels of a system interconnection. As
   with any form of system access, the extent to which a party may access
   data and information resources is dependent on its business and
   security needs. Accordingly, some organizations may choose to establish
   a limited interconnection, whereby users are restricted to a single
   application or file location. Alternately, organizations may establish
   a broader interconnection, enabling users to access multiple
   applications or databases. Finally, some organizations may permit full
   transparency and access across their respective enterprises via the
   interconnection. Despite the advantages, interconnecting information
   systems can expose the participating organizations to risk. If the
   interconnection is not properly designed, security failures could
   result in the compromise of the connected systems and the data they
   store, process, or transmit. Similarly, if one of the connected systems
   is compromised, the interconnection could be used as a conduit to
   compromise the other system and its data. The potential for compromise
   is underscored by the fact that, in most cases, the participating
   organizations have little or no control over the operation and
   management of the other party's system. It is critical, therefore, that
   both parties learn as much as possible about the risks associated with
   the planned or current interconnection and the security controls they
   can implement to mitigate those risks. In addition, it is critical that
   they establish an agreement between themselves regarding the
   management, operation, and use of the interconnection and that they
   formally document this agreement. Federal policy requires Federal
   agencies to establish interconnection agreements. Specially, OMB
   Circular A-130, Appendix III, requires agencies to obtain written
   management authorization before connecting their information systems to
   other systems, based on an acceptable level of risk. The written
   authorization should define the rules of behavior and controls that
   must be maintained for the system interconnection, and it should be
   included in the organization's system security plan. Similarly, the
   Government Information Security Reform Act (GISRA) requires Federal
   agencies to develop and implement security programs that protect their
   information operations and assets, including operations and assets that
   are provided or managed by other agencies (i.e., through an
   interconnection). 4 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 3. PLANNING A SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION The
   process of connecting two or more information systems should begin with
   a planning phase, in which the participating organizations perform
   preliminary activities and examine all relevant technical, security,
   and administrative issues. The planning phase ensures that the
   interconnection will operate as efficiently and securely as possible.
   This section discusses recommended steps for planning a system
   interconnection, as depicted in Figure 3-1. Step 1: Establish Joint
   Step 2: Step 3: Planning Team Define Business Case Perform C&A Step 4:
   Determine Step 5: Document Step 6: Interconnection Interconnection
   Approve or Reject Requirements Agreement Interconnection Figure 3-1.
   Steps to Plan a System Interconnection 3.1 STEP 1: ESTABLISH A JOINT
   PLANNING TEAM Both organizations are responsible for ensuring the
   security of their respective systems and data. Essential to this goal
   is a well-coordinated approach to interconnectivity, including regular
   communications between the organizations throughout the life cycle of
   the interconnection. Therefore, the organizations should consider
   establishing a joint planning team composed of appropriate managerial
   and technical staff, including program managers, security officers,
   system administrators, network administrators, and system architects.
   The joint planning team could be part of an existing forum or it could
   be created specifically for the planned interconnection. Regardless of
   how it is formed, the team must have the commitment and support of the
   system and data owners and other appropriate senior managers. The team
   would be responsible for coordinating all aspects of the planning
   process and ensuring that it had clear direction and sufficient
   resources. In addition, the team could remain active beyond the
   planning phase, to serve as a forum for future discussions about issues
   involving the interconnection. 3.2 STEP 2: DEFINE THE BUSINESS CASE
   Both organizations should work together to define the purpose of the
   interconnection, determine how it will support their respective mission
   requirements, and identify potential costs and risks. Defining the
   business case will establish the basis of the interconnection and
   facilitate the planning process. Factors that should be considered
   include likely costs (e.g., staffing, equipment, and facilities),
   expected benefits (e.g., improved efficiency, centralized access to
   data), and potential risks (e.g., technical, legal, and financial). 5
   Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 As
   part of this process, both organizations should examine privacy issues
   related to data that will be exchanged or passed over the
   interconnection, and determine whether such use is restricted under
   current statutes, regulations, or policies. Examples of data that might
   be restricted include personally identifiable information such as names
   and social security numbers, or confidential business information such
   as contractor bid rates and trade secrets. Each organization should
   consult with its Privacy Officer or Legal Counsel to determine whether
   such information may be shared or transferred. Permission to exchange
   or transfer data should be documented, along with a commitment to
   protect such data. 3.4 STEP 3: PERFORM CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION
   Before interconnecting their information systems, each organization
   should ensure that its respective system is properly certified and
   accredited in accordance with Federal certification and accreditation
   (C&A) standards. Certification involves testing and evaluating the
   technical and nontechnical security features of the system to determine
   the extent to which it meets a set of specified security requirements.
   Accreditation is the official approval by a Designated Approving
   Authority (DAA) or other authorizing management official that the
   system may operate for a specific purpose using a defined set of
   safeguards at an acceptable level of risk. The C&A process is
   applicable for both emerging systems and those already in production.
   See NIST Special Publication 800-12, An Introduction to Computer
   Security: The NIST Handbook, and NIST Special Publication 800-37,
   Certification and Accreditation Guidelines (Draft), for guidance on
   performing a C&A. 3.4 STEP 4: DETERMINE INTERCONNECTION REQUIREMENTS
   The joint planning team should identify and examine all relevant
   technical, security, and administrative issues surrounding the
   interconnection. This information will be used to develop an
   Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) and a Memorandum of
   Understanding or Agreement (MOU/A). This information also will be used
   to develop an implementation plan for establishing the interconnection.
   The joint planning team should consider the following issues: S Level
   and Method of Interconnection: Define the level of interconnectivity
   that will be established between the information systems, ranging from
   limited connectivity (limited data exchange) to enterprise-level
   connectivity (active sharing of data and applications). In addition,
   describe the method used to connect the systems (dedicated line or
   VPN). S Impact on Existing Infrastructure and Operations: Determine
   whether the network or computer infrastructure currently used by both
   organizations is sufficient to support the interconnection, or whether
   additional components are required (e.g., communication lines, routers,
   switches, servers, and software). If additional components are
   required, determine the potential impact that installing and using them
   might have on the existing infrastructure, if any. In addition,
   determine the potential impact the interconnection 6 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 could have on
   current operations, including new demands on system administration,
   increases in data traffic, and new training requirements. S Hardware
   Requirements: Identify hardware that will be needed to support the
   interconnection, including communications lines, routers, firewalls,
   hubs, switches, servers, and computer workstations. Determine whether
   existing hardware is sufficient, or whether additional components are
   required. If new hardware is required, select appropriate products that
   ensure interoperability. S Software Requirements: Identify software
   that will be needed to support the interconnection, including software
   for firewalls, servers, and computer workstations. Determine whether
   existing software is sufficient, or whether additional software is
   required. If new software is required, select appropriate products that
   ensure interoperability. S Data Sensitivity: Identify the sensitivity
   level of data or information resources that will be made available,
   exchanged, or passed one way only across the interconnection.
   Identifying data sensitivity is critical for determining the security
   controls that should be used to protect the connected systems and data.
   Examples of sensitive data include financial data, personal
   information, and proprietary business data. See NIST Special
   Publication 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Information
   Technology Systems, for further guidance. S User Community: Define the
   community of users who will access, exchange, or receive data across
   the interconnection. Determine whether users must possess certain
   characteristics corresponding to data sensitivity levels, such as
   employment status or nationality requirements. Devise an approach for
   compiling and managing the profiles of all users who will have access
   to the interconnection, including user identifications, workstation
   addresses, workstation type, operating system, and any other relevant
   information. Each organization should use this information to develop
   and maintain a comprehensive database of its users. S Services and
   Applications: Identify the information services that will be provided
   over the interconnection by each organization and the applications
   associated with those services, if appropriate. Examples of services
   include e-mail, file transfer protocol (FTP), RADIUS, Kerberos,
   database query, file query, and general computational services. S
   Security Controls: Identify security controls that will be implemented
   to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the
   systems and data that pass between them. Controls can be selected from
   the examples provided in Section 4 or from other sources. Controls
   should be appropriate for the systems that will be connected and the
   environment in which the interconnection will operate. S Segregation of
   Duties: Determine whether the management or execution of certain duties
   should be divided between two or more individuals. Examples of duties
   that might be segregated include auditing, managing user profiles, and
   maintaining equipment. 7 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 Segregation of duties reduces the risk that
   a single individual could cause harm to the connected systems and data,
   either accidentally or deliberately. S Incident Reporting and Response:
   Establish procedures to report and respond to anomalous and suspicious
   activity that is detected by either technology or staff. Determine when
   and how to notify each other about security incidents that could affect
   the interconnection. Identify the types of information that will be
   reported, including the cause of the incident, affected data or
   programs, and actual or potential impact. In addition, identify types
   of incidents that require a coordinated response, and determine how to
   coordinate response activities. It might be appropriate to develop a
   joint incident response plan for this purpose. See NIST Special
   Publication 800-3, Establishing a Computer Security Incidence Response
   Capability, for further information. S Data Backup: Determine whether
   data or information that is passed across the interconnection must be
   backed up and stored. If backups are required, identify the types of
   data that will be backed up, how frequently backups will be conducted
   (daily, weekly, or monthly), and whether backups will be performed by
   both parties or only one party. Also, determine how to perform backups,
   and link backup procedures to disaster response and recovery
   procedures. Critical data should be backed up regularly and stored in
   an off-site location to prevent loss or damage. In addition, audit logs
   should be copied and stored in a secure location to prevent theft,
   damage, or tampering. S Contingency Planning: Each organization should
   have a contingency plan(s) to respond to and recover from disasters and
   other disruptive contingencies, ranging from the failure of system
   components to the loss of computing facilities. Determine how to notify
   each other of such contingencies, the extent to which the organizations
   will assist each other, and the terms under which assistance will be
   provided. Determine whether to incorporate redundancy into components
   supporting the interconnection, including redundant interconnection
   points, and how to retrieve data backups. Coordinate disaster response
   training, testing, and exercises. See NIST Special Publication 800-34,
   Contingency Planning Guide for Information Technology Systems (Draft),
   for more information. S Data Element Naming and Ownership: Determine
   whether the data element naming schemes used by both organizations are
   compatible, or whether new databases must be normalized so the
   organizations can use data passed over the interconnection. In
   addition, determine whether ownership of data is transferred from the
   transmitting party to the receiving party, or whether the transmitting
   party retains ownership and the receiver becomes the custodian. As part
   of this effort, determine how transferred data will be stored, whether
   they may be re-used, and how they will be destroyed. S Change
   Management: Determine how to coordinate the planning, design, and
   implementation of changes that could affect the connected systems or
   data, such as upgrading hardware or software, or adding services.
   Consider establishing a forum with appropriate staff from each
   organization to review proposed changes to the interconnection.
   Coordinating change management activities will reduce the potential for
   8 Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001
   implementing changes that could disrupt the availability or integrity
   of data, or introduce vulnerabilities. S Rules of Behavior: Develop
   rules of behavior that clearly delineate the responsibilities and
   expected behavior of all personnel who will have access to the
   interconnection. The rules should be in writing and they should state
   the consequences of inconsistent behavior or noncompliance. The rules
   will form the basis for security awareness and training. S Security
   Awareness and Training: Define a security awareness and training
   program for all personnel who will be involved in the management, use,
   and operation of the interconnection. The program may be incorporated
   into current security awareness and training. Identify training
   requirements, including frequency and scheduling, and assign
   responsibility for conducting training and awareness activities. Design
   training to ensure personnel are familiar with the rules of behavior
   associated with the interconnection. Require users to sign an
   acknowledgement form indicating that they understand the rules, if
   appropriate. If shared applications are used, ensure users know how to
   use them properly. If the interconnection is used to exchange or
   transfer sensitive data, ensure that users understand special
   requirements for handling such data, if required. See NIST Special
   Publication 800-16, Information Technology Security Training
   Requirements: A Role- and Performance-Based Model, for guidance. S
   Roles and Responsibilities: Identify personnel who will be responsible
   for establishing, maintaining, or managing the interconnection,
   including managers, system administrators, application designers,
   auditors, security staff, and specialists from such fields as insurance
   and risk management. Choose personnel who have appropriate subject
   matter expertise. If contractors are involved, one or both
   organizations may be required to develop a nondisclosure agreement to
   safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of exchanged data. S
   Scheduling: Develop a preliminary schedule for all activities involved
   in planning, establishing, and maintaining the interconnection. Also,
   determine the schedule and conditions for terminating or reauthorizing
   the interconnection. For example, both parties might agree to review
   the interconnection every 12 months to determine whether to reauthorize
   it for continued operation. S Costs and Budgeting: Identify the
   expected costs required to plan, establish, and maintain the
   interconnection. Identify all associated costs, including labor,
   hardware, software, communications lines, applications, facilities,
   physical security, training, and testing. Develop a comprehensive
   budget, and determine how costs will be apportioned between the
   parties, if required. 3.5 STEP 5: DOCUMENT INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT
   The joint planning team should document not only an agreement governing
   the interconnection, but also the terms under which the organizations
   will abide by the agreement, based on its review of all relevant
   technical, security, and administrative issues (Step 4 above). Two
   documents may 9 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 be developed: an Interconnection Security
   Agreement (ISA) and a Memorandum of Understanding (or Agreement)
   (MOU/A), discussed below. Because the ISA and the MOU/A may contain
   sensitive information, they should be stored in a secure location to
   protect against theft, damage, or destruction. If copies are stored
   electronically, they should be protected from unauthorized disclosure
   or modification. An ISA development guide and sample are provided in
   Appendix A, and an MOU/A development guide and sample are provided in
   Appendix B. 3.5.1 Substep 1: Develop an Interconnection Security
   Agreement The ISA is a security document that specifies the technical
   and security requirements for establishing, operating, and maintaining
   the interconnection. It also supports the MOU/A between the
   organizations. Specifically, the ISA documents the requirements for
   connecting the information systems, describes the security controls
   that will be used to protect the systems and data, contains a
   topological drawing of the interconnection, and provides a signature
   block. 3.5.2 Substep 2: Establish a Memorandum of Understanding (or
   Agreement) The MOU/A documents the terms and conditions for sharing
   data and information resources in a secure manner. Specifically, the
   MOU/A defines the purpose of the interconnection; identifies relevant
   authorities; specifies the responsibilities of both organizations; and
   defines the terms of agreement, including apportionment of costs and
   the timeline for terminating or reauthorizing the interconnection. The
   MOU/A should not include technical details on how the interconnection
   is established or maintained; that is the function of the ISA. 3.6 STEP
   6: APPROVE OR REJECT SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION The joint planning team
   should submit the ISA and the MOU/A to the DAA or other authorizing
   management official of each organization, requesting approval for the
   interconnection. (In some cases, the DAA will be the system owner.)
   Upon receipt, the DAAs should review the ISA, the MOU/A, and any other
   relevant documentation. Based on this review, the DAAs should decide on
   one of the following: S Approve the interconnection S Grant interim
   approval S Reject the interconnection. If the DAAs (or other
   authorizing officials) accept the ISA and the MOU/A, they should sign
   and date the documents, thereby approving the interconnection. The
   documents should then be given to an appropriate security officer from
   each organization to retain. A signed copy of the documents may also be
   forwarded to the appropriate system program manager within each
   organization. 10 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 One or both DAAs may decide to grant an
   interim approval. Interim approval may be granted if the planned
   interconnection does not meet the requirements stated in the ISA, but
   mission criticality requires that the interconnection must be
   established. The DAA(s) should provide a signed letter to the
   respective security officers specifying the tasks that must be
   completed before full approval will be granted, including the
   implementation of additional security controls, if required. In
   addition, the DAA(s) should specify timelines for completing the tasks,
   although the tasks should be completed before the interconnection is
   operational. The joint planning team should then work to meet the
   requirements specified by the DAA(s). If one or both DAAs reject the
   interconnection, the joint planning team should return to the planning
   process. In this situation, the DAA(s) should provide a signed letter
   to the respective security officers specifying the reason(s) for
   rejecting the planned interconnection and provide suggested solutions.
   The DAA(s) also should meet with the joint planning team to discuss and
   agree on the proposed solutions and timelines for correcting specified
   deficiencies, so approval may be granted. 11 Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 4. ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM
   INTERCONNECTION After the system interconnection is planned and
   approved, it must be implemented. This section provides recommended
   steps for establishing the system interconnection, as shown in Figure
   4-1. Step 1: Develop Step 2: Execute Step 3: Implementation Plan
   Implementation Plan Update System Security Plans Figure 4-1. Steps to
   Establish a System Interconnection 4.1 STEP 1: DEVELOP AN
   IMPLEMENTATION PLAN To ensure that the information systems are
   connected properly and securely, the joint planning team should develop
   a System Interconnection Implementation Plan. The purpose of the plan
   is to centralize all aspects of the interconnection effort in one
   document and to clarify how technical requirements specified in the ISA
   will be implemented. A well-developed implementation plan will greatly
   improve the likelihood that the interconnection will operate
   successfully and securely. At a mLQLPXP WKH LPSOHPHQWDWLRQ SODQ VKRXOG
   S Describe the information systems that will be connected S Identify
   the sensitivity or classification level of data that will be made
   available, exchanged, or passed one way across the interconnection S
   Identify personnel who will establish and maintain the interconnection,
   and clearly specify their responsibilities S Identify implementation
   tasks and procedures S Identify and describe security controls that
   will be used to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and
   availability of the connected systems and data S Provide test
   procedures and measurement criteria to ensure the interconnection
   operates properly and securely S Specify training requirements for
   users, including a training schedule. A guide for developing an
   implementation plan is provided in Appendix C. 12 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 4.2 STEP 2:
   EXECUTE THE IMPLEMENTATION PLAN After the implementation plan is
   developed, it must be executed. A list of recommended tasks for
   establishing an interconnection is provided below. Detailed procedures
   associated with each task should be provided in the implementation
   plan. 4.2.1 Substep 1: Implement or Configure Security Controls If
   security controls are not in place or they are configured improperly,
   the process of establishing the interconnection could expose the
   information systems to access by unauthorized personnel. Therefore, the
   first step is to implement appropriate security controls or configure
   existing controls, as specified in the ISA. Security controls may
   include the following: S Firewalls: Firewalls determine whether data
   packets are permitted into a network, and they restrict access to
   specific resources. Install firewalls to protect internal networks and
   other resources from unauthorized access across the interconnection, or
   configure existing firewalls accordingly. If the interconnection
   involves the use of servers, host them in a separately protected
   "demilitarized zone" (DMZ), which may be accomplished by installing two
   firewalls: one on the external line and one at the connection to
   internal networks. (Alternately, a firewall could be installed on the
   external line and a security portal installed at the internal
   connection.) Ensure that firewall ports are configured correctly with
   access controls, policies, and procedures, and change all default
   passwords. S Intrusion Detection: An intrusion detection system (IDS)
   detects security breaches by looking for anomalies in normal
   activities, by looking for patterns of activity that are associated
   with intrusions or insider misuse, or both. One or both organizations
   should implement an IDS (or configure existing IDSs) to detect
   undesirable or malicious activity that could affect the interconnection
   or data that pass over it. A combination of network- based and
   host-based IDSs may be used, if appropriate. Configure alert mechanisms
   to notify system administrators or security officers when intrusions or
   unusual activities are detected. See NIST Special Publication 800-31,
   Intrusion Detection Systems, for further information. S Auditing:
   Install or configure mechanisms to record activities occurring across
   the interconnection, including application processes and user
   activities. Activities that should be recorded include event type, date
   and time of event, user identification, workstation identification, the
   success or failure of access attempts, and security actions taken by
   system administrators or security officers. Audit logs should have
   read-only access, and only authorized personnel should have access to
   the logs. In addition, logs should be stored in a secure location to
   protect against theft and damage. S Identification and Authentication:
   Identification and authentication is used to prevent unauthorized
   personnel from entering an information system. Implement strong
   mechanisms to identify and authenticate users to ensure that they are
   authorized to access the interconnection. Mechanisms include user
   identification and passwords, digital 13 Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 certificates, authentication
   tokens, biometrics, and smart cards. If used, passwords should be at
   least six to eight characters long, should have a mixture of alphabetic
   and numeric characters, and should be changed regularly. Master
   password files should be encrypted and securely protected from
   unauthorized access. If digital signatures are used, the technology
   must conform to Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 186-2,
   Digital Signature Standard (DSS).1 Depending on data sensitivity,
   organizations may permit users to access the interconnection after they
   have authenticated to their local domain, reducing the need for
   multiple passwords or other mechanisms. Applications operating across
   the interconnection could rely on authentication information from the
   user's local domain, using a proxy authentication mechanism. S Logical
   Access Controls: Logical access controls are mechanisms used to
   designate who has access to system resources and the types of
   transactions and functions they are permitted to perform. Use access
   control lists (ACL) and access rules to specify the access privileges
   of authorized personnel, including the level of access and the types of
   transactions and functions that are permitted (e.g., read, write,
   execute, delete, create, and search). Hardware and software often are
   configured with ACLs, or the ACLs may be administered offline and then
   distributed to routers and other devices. Configure access rules to
   grant appropriate access privileges to authorized personnel, based on
   their roles or job functions. Ensure only system administrators have
   access to the controls. In addition, install a log-on warning banner
   notifying unauthorized users that they have accessed a Federal
   Government computer system and unauthorized use can be punishable by
   fines or imprisonment. Acceptance of the banner should constitute
   consent to monitoring. S Virus Scanning: Data and information that pass
   from one information system to the other should be scanned with
   antivirus software to detect and eliminate malicious code, including
   viruses, worms, and Trojan horses. Install antivirus software on all
   servers and computer workstations linked to the interconnection. Ensure
   the software is automatically updated and properly maintained with
   current virus definitions. In addition, incorporate antivirus scanning
   into user training, to ensure that users understand how to scan
   computers, file downloads, and e-mail attachments, if appropriate.
   Develop procedures and assign responsibilities for responding to and
   recovering from malicious code attacks. S Encryption: Encryption is
   used to ensure that data cannot be read or modified by unauthorized
   users. When used properly, encryption will protect the confidentiality
   and integrity of data during transmission and storage, and it may be
   used for authentication and nonrepudiation. Encryption may be
   implemented in devices such as routers, switches, firewalls, servers,
   and computer workstations. Configure devices to apply the appropriate
   level of encryption required for data that pass over the
   interconnection. If required, implement encryption mechanisms (e.g.,
   digital signatures) to authenticate users 1 This requirement applies
   only to Federal agencies. 14 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 to the interconnection and to shared
   applications, and to provide nonrepudiation. S Physical and
   Environmental Security: Physical security addresses the physical
   protection of computer hardware and software. Place hardware and
   software supporting the interconnection, including interconnection
   points, in a secure location that is protected from unauthorized
   access, interference, or damage. Ensure that environmental controls are
   in place to protect against hazards such as fire, water, and excessive
   heat and humidity. In addition, place computer workstations in secure
   areas to protect them from damage, loss, theft, or unauthorized
   physical access. Consider using access badges, cipher locks, or
   biometric devices to control access to secure areas. For guidance, see
   NIST Special Publications 800-12, 800-30, and 800-27, Engineering
   Principles for Information Technology Security (A Baseline for
   Achieving Security). 4.2.2 Substep 2: Install or Configure Hardware and
   Software After security controls are installed or configured, it may be
   necessary to install hardware and software to establish the
   interconnection, or to configure existing hardware and software for
   this purpose, if appropriate. Place hardware and software in secure
   areas that are configured with proper environmental controls. Equipment
   that might be required includes the following: S Communications Line:
   If a dedicated line is used for the interconnection, ensure the line is
   connected to the appropriate physical site at each organization. S VPN:
   Install VPN software on servers and local workstations, and configure
   it appropriately. S Routers and Switches: Install routers or switches
   to connect to the communications line between the information systems,
   or configure existing devices. S Hubs: Install hubs to join multiple
   computers into a single network segment, if required. S Servers:
   Install appropriate servers to support services provided across the
   interconnection, such as database, Web, and application servers. If
   existing servers are used, determine whether the hardware should be
   upgraded to support the interconnection, and whether the latest
   software and security patches have been applied. S Computer
   Workstations: Configure computer workstations by providing a menu
   option or a link to enable authorized users to invoke the
   interconnection. Install appropriate client software, if required.
   4.2.3 Substep 3: Integrate Applications Integrate applications or
   protocols for services that are provided across the interconnection.
   Examples include word processing, database applications, e-mail, Web
   browsers, application servers, authentication servers, domain servers,
   development tools, editing programs, and communications programs. 15
   Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 4.2.4
   Substep 4: Conduct Operational and Security Testing Conduct a series of
   tests to ensure equipment operates properly and there are no obvious
   ways for unauthorized users to circumvent or defeat security controls.
   Test the interface between applications across the interconnection, and
   simulate data traffic at planned activity levels to verify correct
   translation at the receiving end(s). Test security controls under
   realistic conditions. Document the results of the testing and compare
   them to a set of predetermined operational and security standards
   approved by both organizations. Correct errors or problems and document
   the actions taken. Retest the interconnection to ensure errors or
   problems are eliminated and new flaws have not been introduced. 4.2.5
   Substep 5: Conduct a Risk Assessment Conduct a risk assessment to
   identify vulnerabilities and threats associated with the
   interconnection and to determine the corresponding level of risk. The
   assessment may be performed by a certified third party, if appropriate.
   Base the assessment on a set of predetermined security requirements
   approved by the both organizations, and document the results. Adjust
   security controls to mitigate identified risks, and implement
   additional controls, if required. Document the corrective actions
   taken. 4.2.6 Substep 6: Conduct Security Awareness and Training Conduct
   security awareness and training for all personnel who are involved in
   the management, use, and operation of the interconnection. Distribute
   the rules of behavior to all users who will have access to the
   interconnection, and require them to sign an acknowledgement form
   confirming they understand the rules before granting them authorization
   to access it. In addition, ensure staff know how to report suspicious
   or prohibited activity, and how to request assistance if they encounter
   problems. 4.2.7 Substep 7: Activate the Interconnection Activate the
   interconnection for use by both parties, following prescribed
   guidelines. It is recommended that one or both organizations closely
   monitor the interconnection for a period of at least three months to
   ensure that it operates properly and securely. Analyze audit logs
   carefully and frequently, and monitor the types of assistance requested
   by users. Document any errors or problems that occur and correct them.
   4.3 STEP 3: UPDATE SYSTEM SECURITY PLANS Both organizations should
   update their system security plans and related documents to reflect the
   changed security environment in which their respective system operates.
   It is recommended the security plans include the following information
   regarding the system interconnection (and other interconnections, if
   appropriate): S Names of interconnected systems 16 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 S Organization
   owning the other systems S Type of interconnection S Short discussion
   of major concerns or considerations in determining interconnection S
   Name and title of authorizing management official(s) S Date of
   authorization S System of record, if applicable (Privacy Act data) S
   Sensitivity level of each system S Interaction among systems S Hardware
   inventory S Software inventory S Security concerns and rules of
   behavior governing the interconnection. Refer to NIST Special
   Publication 800-18 for further information. 17 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 5. MAINTAINING
   A SYSTEM INTERCONNECTION After the interconnection is established, it
   must be actively maintained to ensure it operates properly and
   securely. This section describes recommended activities for maintaining
   the system interconnection, including: S Maintain clear lines of
   communication S Maintain equipment S Manage user profiles S Conduct
   security reviews S Analyze audit logs S Report and respond to security
   incidents S Coordinate disaster response and recovery activities S
   Perform change management S Maintain system security plans. 5.1
   MAINTAIN CLEAR LINES OF COMMUNICATION It is critical that both
   organizations maintain clear lines of communication and communicate
   regularly. Open lines of communication help ensure that the
   interconnection is properly maintained and security controls remain
   effective. Open communications also facilitate change management
   activities by making it easy for both sides to notify each other about
   planned system changes that could affect the interconnection. Finally,
   maintaining clear lines of communication enables both sides to promptly
   notify each other of security incidents and system disruptions and
   helps them conduct coordinated responses, if necessary. Communications
   should be conducted between designated personnel using approved
   procedures, as specified in the ISA. Information that should be shared
   includes the following: S Initial agreements and changes to agreements
   S Changes in designated management and technical personnel S Activities
   related to establishing and maintaining the interconnection S Change
   management activities that could affect the interconnection S Security
   incidents that could affect the connected systems and data S Disasters
   and other contingencies that disrupt one or both of the connected
   systems 18 Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November
   2001 S Planned restoration of the interconnection. Information may be
   exchanged verbally or in writing, depending on the nature of the
   communications. However, any activities that could change, modify, or
   adjust one or both of the connected systems should always be
   communicated in writing. 5.2 MAINTAIN EQUIPMENT One or both
   organizations should maintain the equipment used to operate the
   interconnection, to ensure its continued integrity and availability.
   Equipment should be maintained at regular service intervals and in
   accordance with manufacturer specifications. Only authorized personnel
   should be allowed to service and repair equipment. If vendors are used,
   they should be escorted and not left unattended, if required. All
   maintenance activities and corrective actions should be documented, and
   the records should be stored in a secure location. Finally,
   organizations should notify each other before performing maintenance
   activities, including scheduled outages. 5.3 MANAGE USER PROFILES Both
   organizations should actively manage user profiles. If a user resigns
   or changes job responsibilities, the appropriate organization should
   update the user's profile to prevent access to data or information that
   is no longer appropriate. Organizations should not only consider
   monitoring user inactivity, but also establish procedures for
   investigating, disabling, and terminating access to users who do not
   access the interconnection over a specific period of time. For example,
   access privileges for users who do not access the interconnection after
   30 days should be disabled, and privileges for users who do not access
   the interconnection within 90 days should be terminated. Such measures
   help prevent intruders from masquerading as legitimate users by
   exploiting inactive accounts. 5.4 CONDUCT SECURITY REVIEWS One or both
   organizations should regularly review the security controls for the
   interconnection to ensure they are operating properly and are providing
   appropriate levels of protection. A variety of security assessment
   tools are available commercially that can be run against firewalls and
   other controls to identify administrative and configuration errors and
   other security problems. Penetration tests also should be conducted.
   Security reviews may be conducted by designated audit authorities of
   one or both organizations, or by an independent third party. Both
   organizations should agree on the rigor and frequency of reviews as
   well as a reporting process. For example, both organizations should
   examine the results of security reviews to identify areas requiring
   attention. Errors or problems should be corrected in a timely manner.
   Corrective actions should be documented, and the records should be
   stored in a secure location. 5.5 ANALYZE AUDIT LOGS 19 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 One or both
   organizations should regularly analyze audit logs to detect and track
   unusual or suspicious activities across the interconnection that might
   indicate intrusions or internal misuse. Given the voluminous nature of
   audit logs, the logs should be kept at a manageable size by setting
   logging levels appropriately. Automated tools should be used for
   scanning for anomalies, unusual patterns, and known attack signatures,
   and tools should be configured to alert a system administrator if a
   threat is detected. In addition, an experienced system administrator
   (or more, if segregation of duties is applied) should periodically
   review the logs to detect patterns of suspicious activity that scanning
   tools might not recognize. 5.6 REPORT AND RESPOND TO SECURITY INCIDENTS
   Both organizations should notify each other of intrusions, attacks, or
   internal misuse, so the other party can take steps to determine whether
   its system has been compromised. They should take appropriate steps to
   isolate and respond to such incidents, in accordance with their
   respective incident response procedures. Actions that may be taken
   include shutting down a computer, disabling an account, reconfiguring a
   router or firewall, or shutting down the system. If the incident
   involved personnel from one or both organizations, disciplinary actions
   may be required. In some cases, both parties should coordinate their
   actions, especially if a major security breach occurs. If the incident
   was an attack or an intrusion attempt, law enforcement authorities
   should be notified, and all attempts should be made to preserve
   evidence. All security incidents, along with the reporting and response
   actions taken, should be documented. 5.7 COORDINATE DISASTER RESPONSE
   AND RECOVERY ACTIVITIES Both organizations should coordinate disaster
   response and recovery training, testing, and exercises to minimize the
   impact of disasters and other contingencies that could damage the
   connected systems or jeopardize the confidentiality and integrity of
   data. Special attention should be given to emergency alert and
   notification; damage assessment; and response and recovery, including
   data retrieval. The organizations should consider developing joint
   procedures based on existing contingency plans, if appropriate.
   Finally, the organizations should notify each other about changes to
   emergency point of contact information (primary and alternate),
   including changes in staffing, addresses, telephone and fax numbers,
   and e-mail addresses. 5.8 PERFORM CHANGE MANAGEMENT Effective change
   management is critical to ensure the interconnection is properly
   maintained and secured. Each organization should establish a change
   control board (CCB), or a similar body, to review and approve planned
   changes to their respective systems, such as upgrading software or
   adding services. The decision to upgrade or modify a system should be
   based on the security requirements specified in the ISA and on
   determination that the change will not adversely affect the
   interconnection. The other party should be notified in writing and
   involved in this process. After approving a change, the CCB would be
   responsible for managing and tracking the change to ensure it did not
   harm the interconnection, either by disrupting service or introducing
   vulnerabilities. 20 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 If a planned change is designed
   specifically for the interconnection, both parties should establish a
   joint CCB or a similar body to review and approve the change. In most
   cases, such changes are designed to improve the operation and security
   of the interconnection, such as by adding new functions, improving user
   interfaces, and eliminating (or mitigating) known vulnerabilities.
   Nevertheless, it is critical that both organizations carefully review
   such changes before implementing them and that they manage and track
   the changes after they are made. Any errors or problems should be
   corrected in a timely manner. 5.9 MAINTAIN SYSTEM SECURITY PLANS Both
   organizations should maintain their system security plans and other
   relevant documentation to reflect any changes to their information
   systems or to the interconnection. Refer to NIST Special Publication
   800-18 for further information. 21 Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 6. DISCONNECTING A SYSTEM
   INERCONNECTION This section describes the process for terminating the
   system interconnection. If possible, the interconnection should be
   terminated in a methodical manner to avoid disrupting the other party's
   information system. 6.1 PLANNED DISCONNECTION The decision to terminate
   the system interconnection should be made by the system owner with the
   advice of appropriate managerial and technical staff. Before
   terminating the interconnection, the initiating party should notify the
   other party in writing, and it should receive an acknowledgment in
   return. The notification should describe the reason(s) for the
   disconnection, provide the proposed timeline for the disconnection, and
   identify technical and management staff who will conduct the
   disconnection. An organization might have a variety of reasons to
   terminate an interconnection, including the following: S Changed
   business needs S Failed security audits, including increases in risks
   that rise to unacceptable levels S Inability to abide by the technical
   specifications of the ISA S Inability to abide by the terms and
   conditions of the MOU/A S Cost considerations, including increases in
   the cost of maintaining the interconnection S Changes in system
   configuration or in the physical location of equipment. The schedule
   for terminating the interconnection should permit a reasonable period
   for internal business planning so both sides can make appropriate
   preparations, including notifying affected users and identifying
   alternative resources for continuing operations. In addition,
   managerial and technical staff from both organizations should
   coordinate to determine the logistics of the disconnection and the
   disposition of shared data. Finally, the disconnection should be
   conducted when the impact on users is minimal, such as a weekend. 6.2
   EMERGENCY DISCONNECTION If one or both organizations detect an attack,
   intrusion attempt, or other contingency that exploits or jeopardizes
   the connected systems or their data, it may be necessary to abruptly
   terminate the interconnection without providing written notice to the
   other party. This extraordinary measure should be taken only in extreme
   circumstances and only after consultation with appropriate technical
   staff and senior management.2 2 If possible, the organizations should
   consult with their Legal Counsel before making an emergency
   disconnection to address issues related to liability, investigation, or
   evidence preservation. 22 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 The other party should be notified
   immediately by telephone or some other method. The decision to make an
   emergency disconnection should be made by the system owner and
   implemented by technical staff. If the system owner is unavailable, a
   predesignated staff member may authorize the disconnection in
   accordance with written criteria that stipulate the conditions under
   which this authority is exercised. The system owner or designee should
   verbally notify the other party's emergency contact as soon as
   possible, either before the interconnection is terminated or
   immediately thereafter. Both parties should work together to isolate
   and investigate the incident, including conducting a damage assessment
   and reviewing audit logs and security controls, in accordance with
   incident response procedures. If the incident was an attack or an
   intrusion attempt, law enforcement authorities should be notified, and
   all attempts should be made to preserve evidence. The initiating party
   should provide a written notification to the other party in a timely
   manner (e.g., within five days). The notification should describe the
   nature of the incident, explain why the interconnection was terminated,
   describe how the interconnection was terminated, and identify actions
   taken to isolate and investigate the incident. 6.3 RESTORATION OF
   INTERCONNECTION Both organizations may choose to restore the system
   interconnection after it has been terminated. The decision to restore
   the interconnection should be based on the cause and duration of the
   disconnection. For example, if the interconnection was terminated
   because of an attack, intrusion, or other contingency, both parties
   should implement appropriate countermeasures to prevent a recurrence of
   the problem. They also should modify the ISA and MOU/A to address
   issues requiring attention, if necessary. Alternately, if the
   interconnection has been terminated for more than 90 days, both parties
   should perform a risk assessment on their respective systems, and
   reexamine all relevant planning and implementation issues, including
   developing a new ISA and MOU/A. 23 Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 APPENDIX A INTERCONNECTION
   SECURITY AGREEMENT The organizations that own and operate the connected
   information systems should develop an Interconnection Security
   Agreement (ISA) to document the technical requirements of the
   interconnection. The ISA also supports a Memorandum of Understanding or
   Agreement (MOU/A) between the organizations (see Appendix B). An ISA
   development guide is provided below; a sample ISA is depicted in Figure
   A-1 at the end of this appendix. A.1 PURPOSE The intent of the ISA is
   to document and formalize the interconnection arrangements between
   "Organization A" and "Organization B" and to specify any details that
   may be required to provide overall security safeguards for the systems
   being interconnected. General guidance regarding the contents of an ISA
   is provided below; however, each ISA may be tailored by mutual consent
   of its originators. Information systems owned by other Federal
   Government agencies and commercial process owners should be used to
   process data transactions only after the completion of a duly signed
   ISA. Systems approved by an ISA for interconnection with (name of
   Organization A) systems should meet the protection requirements equal
   to, or greater than, those implemented by the respective interconnected
   (name of Organization B)-owned system(s) and meet the intent of the
   policy prescribed herein. A.2 REFERENCES The authority for the
   interconnectivity between information systems is based on OMB Circular
   A- 130 and a signed MOU/A between the two organizations being
   interconnected. A.3 SCOPE This procedure is effective in the following
   System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases: CONCEPTS DEVELOPMENT
   DEPLOYMENT DESIGN OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT DISPOSAL A.4 PROCEDURE An ISA
   is used to support an MOU/A that established the requirements for data
   exchange between two organizations. The MOU is used to document the
   business requirement and all the legal jargon necessary to support the
   business relations between the two organizations. The MOU/A should not
   include technical details regarding how the interconnection is
   consummated; 24 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 that is the function of the ISA. An ISA is
   a distinct security-related document that outlines the technical
   solution and security requirements for the interconnection. It does not
   replace an MOU/A. As older MOU/As are updated, they should be changed
   to refer to the appropriate ISA covering the connectivity addressed by
   the MOU/A. Use of the ISA is compliant with other elements of the
   Federal Government. An ISA can be signed only by the two Designated
   Approval Authorities (DAA) (or other authorizing management officials)
   whose names appear in Section 4 of the agreement. It should be formally
   signed before the interconnection is declared operational. A.5 CONTENTS
   OF AN INTERCONNECTION SECURITY AGREEMENT An ISA should contain a cover
   sheet followed by a document of four numbered sections. The information
   presented within those four sections should address the need for the
   interconnection and the security controls required and implemented to
   protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the systems
   and data. The extent of the information should be sufficient that the
   two DAAs can make a prudent decision about approving the
   interconnection of the systems. The four sections are as follows: S
   Section 1: Interconnection Statement of Requirements S Section 2:
   Systems Security Considerations S Section 3: Topological Drawing S
   Section 4: Signatory Authority. NOTE: A person from one of the
   organizations should take the lead for completing the ISA; however,
   that person should not try to determine which questions in Section 2
   apply to the other system. It is difficult to define the required
   security considerations that may need to be documented without having
   detailed knowledge of each system being connected. The items in Section
   2 should be included by mutual consent. Therefore, a technical
   representative from each organization who understands the system should
   choose which security issues are relevant in Section 2. One system may
   have several security requirements that need to be documented and that
   may not apply to the other system. The technical representative for
   each organization should have the authority to represent his or her DAA
   for defining requirements for the particular ISA. A.6 SECTION 1:
   INTERCONNECTION STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS Use this section to document
   the formal requirement for connecting the two systems. Explain the
   rationale for the interconnection to the two DAAs. Enter a one- or
   two-paragraph statement justifying the interconnection. Within the
   information presented, include the following information: S The
   requirement for the interconnection, including the benefits derived. 25
   Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 S The
   names of the systems being interconnected. S The agency name or
   organization that initiated the requirement. If the requirement is
   generated by some higher level agency or organization, indicate the
   name of the organization and the individual, if appropriate, that
   requested the interconnection. A.7 SECTION 2: SYSTEM SECURITY
   CONSIDERATIONS Use this section to document the security features that
   are in place to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and
   availability of the data and the systems being interconnected. The
   technical representative from each organization should discuss the
   contents on this section to come to a mutual agreement as to which
   items are to be included. Both organizations should answer each item,
   even if only one party is being affected by the subjected item. Note
   that some items are recommended, whereas others are optional. Optional
   items affecting only one system should be answered and included.
   SUGGESTED ITEMS: (Do not include this title "Suggested Items" in the
   ISA.) The following items should be included and answered in the ISA: S
   General Information/Data Description. Describe the information and data
   being made available, exchanged, or passed one way only, by the
   interconnection of the two systems. S Services Offered. Describe the
   nature of the information services (e.g. e-mail, FTP, database query,
   file query, general computational services) offered over the
   interconnected system by each participating organization. S Data
   Sensitivity. Enter the sensitivity level of the information that will
   be handled through the interconnection, including the highest level of
   sensitivity involved (e.g., Privacy Act, Trade Secret Act, Law
   Enforcement Sensitive, Sensitive-But-Unclassified) and the most
   restrictive protection measures required. S User Community. Enter a
   thorough explanation of the "user community" who will be served by the
   interconnection, including their approved access levels and the lowest
   approval level of any individual who will have access to the
   interconnection. S Information Exchange Security. Enter a description
   of all system security technical services pertinent to the secure
   exchange of data among and between the systems in question. S Rules of
   Behavior. Summarize the aspects of behavior expected by and from each
   system in the interconnection. For example, each system is expected to
   protect the information belonging to the other through the
   implementation of a security program that provides for defense again
   intrusion, tampering, and virus detection, among others. Do not enter
   statements of law or policy. Such statements typically are addressed in
   the MOU/A. 26 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 S Formal Security Policy. Enter the titles
   of the formal security policy(ies) that govern each system. For
   example, "Information Systems Policy And Procedures, Number xxxx" for
   (name of Organization A). S Incident Reporting. Describe the agreements
   made concerning the reporting of and responses to information security
   incidents for both organizations. For example, "Each organization will
   report incidents in accordance to its own (procedure name) procedures."
   If no incident reporting is being performed, so state. S Audit Trail
   Responsibilities. Describe how the audit trail responsibility is to be
   shared by participating organizations and what events each should be
   logged by each organization. If no audit trail is performed, so state.
   OPTIONAL ITEMS: (Do not include this title "Optional Items" in the
   ISA.) If the technical representatives determine that any item below is
   "not applicable," a statement to that effect may be made in the ISA in
   lieu of eliminating the item from the ISA. For example, if there is no
   dialup connectivity, the appropriate entry would be "Dialup capability
   will not be used by either interconnected system." S Security
   Parameters. Specify the security parameters exchanged between systems
   to authenticate that the requesting system is the legitimate system and
   that the class(es) of service being requested are approved by the ISA.
   For example, at the system level, if a new service such as e-mail is
   requested without prior coordination, it should be detected, refused,
   and documented as a possible intrusion until the interconnected service
   is authorized. Also, additional security parameters may be required
   (e.g., personal accountability) to allow the respondent system to
   determine whether a requestor is authorized to receive the information
   and/or services requested and whether all details of the transaction
   fall within the scope of user services authorized in the ISA. S
   Operational Security Mode. If both parties use the concept of
   Protection Levels and Levels-of-Concern for Confidentiality, Integrity,
   and Availability based on their implementation common criteria, then
   enter the values for each as documented for both systems. Optionally,
   the security mode of operations could be documented for both systems. S
   Training and Awareness. Enter the details of any new or additional
   security awareness, training requirements, and the assignment of
   responsibility for conducting it throughout the life cycle of the
   interconnection. S Specific Equipment Restrictions. Describe any
   revised or new restriction(s) to be placed on terminals, including
   their usage, location, and physical accessibility. S Dialup
   Connectivity. Describe any special considerations for dialup
   connections via public switched telephone network (PSTN) to any system
   in the proposed interconnection, including additional security risks
   and any safeguards to mitigate them. 27 Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 S Security Documentation. Enter
   the title and general details of each organization's system security
   plan, including the assignment of responsibilities for developing and
   accepting the plan, as well as any other relevant documentation. A.8
   SECTION 3: TOPOLOGICAL DRAWING The ISA should include a topological
   drawing depicting the interconnectivity from end-point to end-point.
   The drawing should include the following: S The title "SECTION 3:
   TOPOLOGICAL DRAWING." S All communications paths, circuits, and other
   components used for the interconnection, beginning with the
   Organization A-owned system(s) traversing through all interconnected
   systems to the Organization B end-point. S The drawing should depict
   the logical location of all components (e.g., firewalls, routers,
   switches, hubs, servers, encryption devices, and computer
   workstations). S Center the words "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY" as the last
   line on the bottom of the page containing the drawing. A.9 SECTION 4:
   SIGNATORY AUTHORITY The ISA should include a signature conclusion.
   Optionally, this section may include any statements that the two DAAs
   desire in order to finalize the ISA. The signature conclusion should
   include the following: S The expiration date of the agreement. S
   Periodic review requirements, such as the date of the next review. If
   none is required, so state. S Other statements as required by the DAAs,
   if any. S The signatures of the DAAs from each organization, and the
   date of the signatures. 28 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 INTERCONNECTION SECURITY AGREEMENT Between
   "Organization A" and "Organization B" (ORGANIZATIONAL SEAL[S] HERE) N
   Noovveem mbbeerr 22000011 (Organization A) (Organization B) (ANY COVER
   SHEET MAY BE USED SHOWING THE ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE ISA. A SEAL
   IS NOT NECESSARY BUT MAY BE USED.) Figure A-1. ISA Sample 29 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 INTERCONNECTION
   SECURITY AGREEMENT SECTION 1: INTERCONNECTION STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS
   The requirements for interconnection between "Organization A" and
   "Organization B" are for the express purpose of passing data from
   "System A," owned by "Organization A," to "System B" owned by
   "Organization B." "Organization B" requires the use of "Organizations
   A's" XYZ database as approved and directed by the Secretary of "Agency"
   in "Proclamation A," dated "date." The expected benefit is to (describe
   the expected benefit). SECTION 2: SYSTEM SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
   General Information/Data Description. The interconnection between
   "System A" owned by "Organization A" and "System B" owned by
   "Organization B" is a one-way path designed expressly for the delivery
   of the "XYZ database" to "Organization B's" Data Analysis Department.
   The information gained from the "XYZ database" will be fused with other
   information gained by internal "Organization B" resources. Services
   Offered. No user services are offered. This connection only passes data
   from the "Organization A" system to the "Organization B" system via a
   dedicated in-house connection. No data except control signals will be
   sent from "System B" to "System A." Data Sensitivity. The sensitivity
   of the data from "Organization A" is Sensitive- But-Unclassified. No
   data is sent from "Organization B" to "Organization A." User Community.
   All "Organization B" users with access to the data are U.S. citizens
   with a valid and current "Organization B" background Investigation.
   Information Exchange Security. The security of the information being
   passed on this one-way connection is protected through the use of FIPS
   140-2 approved encryption mechanisms. The connections at each end are
   located within controlled access facilities, guarded 24 hours a day.
   Individual users will not have access to the data except through their
   systems security software inherent to the operating system. Once the
   data has been stored on "System B," all access is controlled by
   authentication methods to validate the approved users. 1 Figure A-1.
   Continued 30 Guide for Interconnecting Information
   Systems-Draft-November 2001 Trusted Behavior Expectations.
   "Organization B's" system and users are expected to protect
   "Organization A's" XYZ Database in accordance with the Privacy Act and
   Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S. Code 1905); Unauthorized Access Act (18 U.S.
   Code 2701 and 2710). No data is passed to "Organization A" from
   "Organization B" that requires protection. Formal Security Policy.
   Policy documents that govern the protection of the data are (cite
   appropriate policy documents). Incident Reporting. The party
   discovering the incident in accordance with their procedures will
   report security incidents. In the case of "Organization B," any
   security incident will be reported to the Computer Security Incident
   Response Capability located at the "ABC" complex. Policy governing the
   reporting of Security Incidents is (cite appropriate policy
   document[s]). Audit Trail Responsibilities. Audit trail requirements
   are waived by the signing of this ISA. SECTION 3: TOPOLOGICAL DRAWING
   (Insert a drawing here.) SECTION 4: SIGNATORY AUTHORITY This ISA is
   valid for one (1) year after the last date on either signature below.
   At that time it will be updated, reviewed, and reauthorized. Either
   party may terminate this agreement upon 30 days' advanced notice in
   writing or in the event of a security exception that would necessitate
   an immediate response. (Organization A Official) (Organization B
   Official) _______________________________ _____________________________
   (Signature Date) (Signature Date) 2 Figure A-1. Continued 31 Guide for
   Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 APPENDIX B
   MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING/AGREEMENT The organizations that own and
   operate the connected systems should establish a Memorandum of
   Understanding (or Agreement) (MOU/A) that defines the responsibilities
   of both parties in establishing, operating, and securing the
   interconnection. This management document should not contain technical
   details of the interconnection. Those details should be addressed
   separately in the Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) (see
   Appendix A). An MOU/A should be developed and signed during the
   planning phase of the interconnection. Just prior to the activation of
   the interconnection, the memorandum should be reviewed, modified if
   necessary, and resigned. An MOU/A development guide is provided below,
   although organizations may use their own MOU/A format, if appropriate.
   Figure B-1 depicts a sample MOU/A. B.1 SUPERSESSION Identify any
   previous agreements that this memorandum supersedes, including document
   titles and dates. If the memorandum does not supersede any other
   agreements, so state. B.2 INTRODUCTION Use this section to describe the
   purpose of the memorandum. Sample language is provided in the sample
   memorandum. Identify the organizations and information systems that are
   involved in the interconnection. B.3 AUTHORITIES Identify any relevant
   legislative, regulatory, or policy authorities on which the MOU/A is
   based. B.4 BACKGROUND Use this section to describe the information
   systems that will be connected; the data that will be shared,
   exchanged, or passed one way across the interconnection; and the
   business purpose for the interconnection. The description of the
   systems should be brief and nontechnical. The goal is to identify the
   systems and their boundaries. The memorandum should not provide system
   specifications. This section should include the formal name of each
   system; briefly describe their functions; identify their physical
   locations; identify their sensitivity or classification level; and
   identify the type(s) of data they store, process, and/or transmit. 32
   Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 B.5
   COMMUNICATIONS Discuss the communications that will be exchanged
   between the parties throughout the duration of the interconnection.
   Identify the specific events for which the parties must exchange formal
   notification, and discuss the nature of such communications. B.6
   INTERCONNECTING SECURITY AGREEMENT State that the parties will jointly
   develop and sign an ISA before the systems can be connected. In
   addition, describe the purpose of the ISA. B.7 SECURITY State that both
   parties agree to abide by the security arrangements specified in the
   ISA. In addition, state that both parties certify that their respective
   systems are designed, managed, and operated in compliance with all
   relevant Federal laws, regulations, and policies. B.8 COST
   CONSIDERATIONS This section provides the financial details of the
   agreement. It specifies who will pay for each part of the
   interconnection and the conditions under which financial commitments
   may be made. Typically, each organization is responsible for the
   equipment necessary to interconnect its local system, whereas the
   organizations jointly fund the interconnecting mechanism or media.
   However, the financial arrangements are fully negotiable. B.9 TIMELINE
   Identify the expiration date of the memorandum and procedures for
   reauthorizing it. In addition, stipulate that the memorandum may be
   terminated with written notice from one of the parties to the other.
   The memorandum and the ISA should have the same expiration date. B.10
   SIGNATORY AUTHORITY The memorandum must include a signature conclusion,
   containing two signature blocks for each designated approval authority.
   Place the two signature blocks on the same line: one signature on the
   left and one on the right. Include an area for the "date" signed. 33
   Guide for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001
   MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (OR AGREEMENT) Between "Organization A" and
   "Organization B" (ORGANIZATIONAL SEAL[S] HERE) November 2001
   (Organization A) (Organization B) (ANY COVER SHEET MAY BE USED SHOWING
   THE ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE ISA. A SEAL IS NOT NECESSARY BUT MAY
   BE USED.) Figure B-1. MOU/A Sample 34 Guide for Interconnecting
   Information Systems-Draft-November 2001 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (OR
   AGREEMENT) SUPERSEDES: (None or document title and date) INTRODUCTION
   The purpose of this memorandum is to establish a management agreement
   between "Organization A" and "Organization B" regarding the
   development, management, operation, and security of a connection
   between "System A" and "System B." This agreement will govern the
   relationship between "Organization A" and "Organization B," including
   designated managerial and technical staff, in the absence of a common
   management authority. AUTHORITY The authority for this agreement is
   based on "Proclamation A" issued by the Secretary of the "Agency" on
   "date." BACKGROUND It is the intent of both parties to this agreement
   to interconnect the following information systems to pass data from
   "System A" to "System B." Organization B requires the use of
   "Organization B's" "XYZ database" as approved and directed by the
   Secretary of "Agency" in "Proclamation A." The expected benefit of the
   interconnection is to (describe the expected benefit). Each information
   system is described below: SYSTEM A  Name  Function  Location
   Description of data, including sensitivity or classification level
   SYSTEM B  Name  Function  Location  Description of data, including
   sensitivity or classification level 1 Figure B-1. Continued 35 Guide
   for Interconnecting Information Systems-Draft-November 2001
   COMMUNICATIONS Frequent formal communications are essential to ensure
   the successful management and operation of the interconnection. The
   parties agree to maintain open lines of communication between
   designated staff at both the managerial and technical levels. All
   communications described herein must be conducted in writing unless
   otherwise noted. The owners of "System A" and "System" agree to
   designate and provide contact information for technical leads for their
   respective system, and to facilitate direct contacts between technical
   leads to support the management and operation of the interconnection.
   To safeguard the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the
   connected systems and the data they store, process, and transmit, the
   parties agree to provide notice of specific events within the time
   indicated below: Security Incidents: Technical staff will immediately
   notify their designated counterparts by telephone or e-mail when a
   security incident(s) is detected, so the other party may take steps to
   determine whether its system has been compromised and to take
   appropriate security precautions. The system owner will receive formal
   notification in writing within five business days after detection of
   the incident(s). Disasters and Other Contingencies: Technical staff
   will immediately notify their designated counterparts by telephone or
   e-mail in the event of a disaster or other contingency that disrupts
   the normal operation of one or both of the connected systems. Material
   Changes to System Configuration: Planned technical changes to the
   system architecture will be reported to technical staff before such
   changes are implemented. The initiating party agrees to conduct a risk
   assessment based on the new system architecture and to modify and
   resign the ISA within one (1) month of implementation. New
   Interconnections: The system owner will be notified within one (1)
   month before the initiating party connects its information system with
   any other information system, including systems that are owned and
   operated by third parties. Personnel Changes: The parties agree to
   provide notification of the separation or long-term absen
