http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERJ/NJ500591.HTML

   NOAA logo      NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE     Operations Manual
                                                   SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND
   20910  Letter 5-91

   Date of Issue:     March 22, 1991             Effective Date:    March
   22,1991

   In Reply Refer To:   W/MB3                  File With: J-50

   Subject: Sequence of Forecaster Development Program Training

   Reference(s):

     Updates: Paragraph III, "Training," OML 1-86, dated January 16,
     1986, Forecaster Development Program (FDP)

       The attached document: (1) establishes the training sequence for
   the FDP and (2) identifies specific remote training modules as
   prerequisites for the Forecaster Development Course.

   Elbert W. Friday, Jr.
   Assistant Administrator
     for Weather Services

   Attachment
     __________________________________________________________________

                 Sequence of Forecaster Development Program

       This directive specifies those training requirements which are
   generally applicable for meteorologist interns in the National Weather
   Service (NWS) field offices. All modules in all three sections of this
   program are generally mandatory for meteorologist interns, recognizing
   that the regions still require flexibility to authorize exceptions,
   e.g., when a particular meteorologist intern's operational duties do
   not require all components of the program. Completion of this training
   will be documented in each meteorologist intern's performance plan. The
   regions and the National Meteorological Center (NMC) will determine
   which portions of this sequence of training are required for their
   personnel in these categories: (1) hydrologist interns, (2)
   meteorological technicians crossing over to meteorologist status, (3)
   meteorologist interns at the national centers, and (4) newly hired
   meteorologists who are entering the NWS in a position other than
   meteorologist intern.

       The sequence of training begins with an introduction to the NWS's
   basic data collection and public service responsibilities (section 1).
   In general, it covers the minimum knowledge and certifications that are
   necessary in order to be able to work shifts in an NWS office. Section
   2 continues with an introduction to the forecast methodology and
   general philosophy of NWS operations. Section 3 is primarily concerned
   with advanced forecasting problems. All training in sections 1 and 2
   must be completed within 2 years, except that attendance at the
   Forecaster Development Course (FDC) may be delayed due to course
   availability.

       As new modules are added in the future, they will be assigned to
   the section which best fits their purpose. New training programs are
   being developed for the new systems [Next Generation Weather Radar
   (NEXRAD), Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System (AWIPS),
   Profiler, etc.)]; these will not be required for all NWS personnel at
   the same time, thus regional discretion will be used as to when
   meteorologist interns will participate in these training programs.

       At the moment, there are no NWS-wide requirements for sections 2
   and 3 in the category of "national requirements which are administered
   by the region or at the local level." For those requirements in section
   1, the regions and NMC will be responsible for keeping records of the
   completion of these requirements for their own meteorologist interns.
   An individual region or NMC may specify a requirement for its entire
   area or for a particular office (as in the case of AWIPS, NEXRAD, and
   Profiler training). Individual regions will alert other regions and the
   Office of Meteorology of any such requirements so that consideration
   can be given to adding them as a national requirement. Thus, the FDP
   training will remain flexible so new training requirements can be
   incorporated into the appropriate section.

       This document lists the modular content of each section of
   training. Modules are units of training with their own objectives,
   study material, and evaluation. They may have prerequisite modules
   and/or be prerequisites to other modules. In some instances, blocks of
   modules are prerequisites to residency training.

   Definitions

   NWS Training Center (NWSTC)-administered modules are modules on which
   the NWSTC maintains individual records of student completion of the
   modules. In general, the meteorologist intern must request the module
   (or block of modules) from the NWSTC; the local training coordinator
   administers the examinations which are received from the  NWSTC.

   Remote Training Modules (RTM) are individual, self-study courses which
   the employees complete at their duty location. Some RTMs serve as
   prerequisites for residence training courses. Others are stand-alone
   training that address a specialized topic and may consist of a review
   of a publication or videotape, completion of a workbook, etc.
   Stand-alone RTMs are not associated with a residence course
   requirement.

   Module specifics

     1. Meteorologist interns must order the RTMs in sections 1 and 2 by
     block but may order RTMs in section 3 one or more at a time. Once an
     RTM has been completed, it need not be repeated even if it is part
     of a block which is a prerequisite for an NWSTC course.

     2. The times specified in sections 1 and 2 designate the normal
     maximum allotment of time. Individuals who can progress at a faster
     Pace may do so.

   Section 1

   In general, all training in section 1 is done on-station. This should
   be performed during the meteorologist intern's first 12 months.
   However, employees who complete this section sooner should continue
   immediately into section 2. Regions are encouraged to closely assess
   the "national requirements which are administered by the region or at
   the local level" and determine which of the "certificate if needed"
   requirements are essential for individual meteorologist interns.

       National requirements which are administered by the region or at
   the local level are as follows:

                          Aviation Observations
                                                     Certificate if needed
                          Synoptic Observations
                                                     Certificate if needed
                          Radar Certification
                                                     Certificate if needed
                          Upper Air Observations
                                                     Certificate if needed
                          Pilot Weather Briefing

                          NOAA Weather Radio

                          Warning - Call to Action

                          Standard Hydrometerological

                          Exchange Format

                          Hydrologic Services Course

   NWSTC-Administered RTMs are as follows:

   BASIC BLOCK
       (The requirements of the BASIC BLOCK are specified in an appendix
   to this attachment.)

   NWSTC Residence Courses:

     Regions should use their discretion here, except that the
     meteorologist intern will not normally attend the FDC during this
     section. Anyone scheduled for a radar course will be required to
     complete the RADAR BLOCK (which is also a block of
     NWSTC-administered RTMs; the requirements of the RADAR BLOCK are
     specified in the appendix to this attachment).

   Section 2

   The training in section 2 is a combination of on-station study and
   NWSTC residency. It should be taken immediately after section 1 and
   completed within 1 year. Of course, employees who complete this section
   sooner should continue immediately into section 3.

   NWSTC-Administered RTMs

     Forecasting Handbook #6, Satellite Meteorology (Regional discretion
     required as to placement of this course in section 2 or section 3.)
     FDC BLOCK* (The requirements of the FDC BLOCK are specified in the
     appendix.)

   * Meteorologist interns attending the NWSTC Radar Meteorology Course
   before completing section 2 shall substitute the RADAR BLOCK for RTM
   MMFDC240. In addition, meteorologist interns may substitute the RADAR
   BLOCK for MMFDC240.

   NWSTC Residence Courses

   FDC
   (Prerequisites: RTMs--BASIC BLOCK and FDC BLOCK)
   Other courses at discretion of region.

   Section 3

       In general, a meteorologist intern will be expected to complete
   section 3 less than 1 year after completion of the requirements of
   section 2.

                       NWSTC-Administered RTMs
                       MMFDC252
                                                            Aircraft Icing
                       MMFDC270
                                                            Hurricanes
                       NWSTC Residence Courses
                       Courses at discretion of the regions.

       The completion of section 3 ends the FDP training for meteorologist
   interns. Beyond section 3, the training requirements for meteorologist
   interns are the same as for journeyman meteorologists.

                                  APPENDIX


                           The BASIC BLOCK includes the following RTMs:
                           MMFDC210
                                   Introduction to the NWS
                           MMFDC211
                                   NWS Directives
                           MMFDC260
                                   Training Guide for AFOS Operations I

                           The FDC BLOCK includes the following RTMs:
                           MMFDC230
                                   The Skew T, Log P Diagram
                           MMFDC240
                                   Radar Basics for FDC
                           MMFDC250
                                   Aviation Terminal Forecast
                           NMFDC251
                                   Transcribed Weather Broadcast
                           MMRAD450
                                   Beginning Doppler Principles for NEXRAD

                           The RADAR BLOCK includes the following RTMs:
                           MMFDC230
                                   The Skew T, Lop P Diagram
                           MMFDC270
                                   Hurricanes
                           MMRAD410
                                   Radar Principles
                           MMRAD412
                                   Fundamentals of Radar Wave Propagation
                           MMRAD414
                                   Radar Reflectivity
                           MMRAD420
                                   Fundamentals of Weather Radar Systems
                           MMRAD450
                                   Beginning Doppler Principles for NEXRAD
