http://www.hpcc.noaa.gov/access.html


   HPCC Banner
   Universal Access Banner

   Hand Coming from Computer

   grey line

     Making computing and networking technologies accessible to
     everyone... spacer

     With the increasingly graphical presentations found on the world
     wide web, the ability for the disabled to retrieve meaningful
     information decreases. HPCC is actively pursuing two strategies to
     combat this troubling trend. First, HPCC is participating in a
     government-wide effort to ensure universal web access to all United
     States government web sites. In addition HPCC offers personal
     assistance to any NOAA employee who wants to ensure that their web
     page is accessible.

     Second, HPCC tests various web browsers and offers suggestions to
     software developers on how products may be improved.

     On the hardware side, HPCC evaluates speech synthesizers. These
     units are normally driven by screen reading software that causes the
     synthesizer to speak the contents of the screen to allow people who
     are blind or profoundly dyslexic to hear the information.

     In an ongoing effort to ensure universal computer access, HPCC
     continually monitors a wide range of technologies to report the
     latest innovations in the field of assistive technology and speech
     recognition technology. Speech recognition can be utilized as a
     replacement for the keyboard or mouse for anyone who for whatever
     reason is unable to type.

   spacer

   line
   HPCC Home Button
   line
   Links Button
   line

     * HPCC
       Accessibility Lab
       Home Page
     * How to Write Accessible Web Pages
       A guide for developing universally accessible web sites.
     * How Well Does Your Web site Stack Up?
       Is it as accessible as it could be? To find out have BOBBY, a
       web-based tool, analyze your web site. Enter a URL and Bobby will
       automatically check your site and provide a detailed report.

   spacer

                                    line

                      NOAA Office of High Performance
                      Computing and Communications
                      1315 East-West Highway, Rm. 9626
                      Silver Spring, MD. 20910

                      Last Modified:4/23/01
