http://www.ibwc.state.gov/wad/body_colorado_river.htm

     __________________________________________________________________

   Historical Flows - Follow this link to get to historical flow data of
   the Colorado River
   [ColoRiver.gif]

         US-Mexico Joint Projects - Colorado River Boundary Section
                         Treaty Deliveries to Mexico

   The two Governments through the IBWC jointly administer the terms of
   the 1944 Water Treaty relating to the Colorado River, which provides
   that of its waters there are allotted to Mexico, (a) a guaranteed
   annual quantity of 1,500,000 acre-feet (1,850,234,000 cubic meters) and
   (b) any other quantities arriving at the Mexican points of diversion
   with certain conditions stipulated in the 1944 Treaty. The application
   of these terms began in 1950. The operations are performed in
   collaboration with the United States Bureau of Reclamation, Department
   of the Interior.

   Colorado River Thumbnail

    (click for larger view)
   The procedure is as follows: Mexico, before the first of each calendar
   year, presents through the IBWC and annual schedule of requested
   deliveries by months, within the Treaty annual allotment and specified
   rates. Mexico also submits a weekly schedule of deliveries by day,
   within the monthly amounts scheduled. Mexico's requests are transmitted
   by the United States Section to the Bureau of Reclamation, which makes
   the releases as necessary from the United States storage works on the
   Colorado River to fulfill the delivery schedule. The deliveries to
   Mexico are jointly monitored by the IBWC to ensure compliance with the
   Treaty allotment and schedules.

   For this purpose, the 1944 Treaty also provides that the IBWC shall
   construct, operate and maintain the boundary section of the Colorado
   River, and in each country its Section of the IBWC construct, operate
   and maintain all necessary gaging stations and other measuring devices
   for the purpose of keeping a complete record of the waters delivered to
   Mexico and of the flows of the Colorado River downstream of Imperial
   Dam in the United States. Pursuant thereto, the IBWC jointly operates
   and maintains six gaging stations on the Colorado River. The United
   States Section operates and maintains five other gaging stations for
   Treaty purposes. The field data collected are jointly compiled and
   reviewed by the IBWC. Records of the flows of the Colorado River
   reaching Mexican points of diversion are published annually in IBWC
   bulletins entitled, "Colorado River and other Western Boundary
   Streams," in English and Spanish.

   Copies of the bulletins in English may be obtained from the United
   States Section office in El Paso, Texas.

                        Morelos Diversion Dam Project

   Pursuant to the 1944 Water Treaty, Mexico constructed at its expense
   and under the supervision of the IBWC a main diversion structure in the
   limitrophe section of the Colorado River, to enable that country to
   divert the major part of its allotted waters from the river. The waters
   diverted are used to irrigate the extensive and highly-developed lands
   in the Mexicali Valley. The dam is located 1.1 miles (2 km) downstream
   from the point where the California-Baja California land boundary
   intersects the river. The dam was completed in 1950.

   This structure, named Morelos Dam after one of Mexico's foremost
   patriots, is of reinforced concrete spanning 1,400 feet (426.72 m)
   across the Colorado River. It supports 20 electrically-operated, radial
   gates to control stages of the Colorado River to enable diversions
   through the adjoining intake structure that supports 12 radial gates
   which control diversions westward to the canal system in Mexico. The
   river part of the dam is designed to pass a flood of 350,000 cfs (9,911
   cms) and the intake structure is designed to pass 8,000 cfs (226 cms).
   Morelos Dam is operated and maintained by Mexico under the supervision
   of the IBWC.

                  Protective Levees Upstream of Morelos Dam

   Pursuant to the terms of the 1944 Water Treaty, the river levees along
   the Colorado River in the United States upstream from Morelos Diversion
   Dam and along the Gila River near Yuma, Arizona were raised, as jointly
   determined by the IBWC, to protect hands in the United States against
   such flood damage as might result from the construction and operation
   of the diversion dam. The major parts of the levees were raised by the
   United States in 1951 and 1952 and the remaining part in 1964. Mexico
   paid the costs of raising of the 41.9 miles (67 km) of levees. The work
   was performed by the United States Bureau of Reclamation under the
   supervision of the IBWC. Mexico also pays the costs for maintenance of
   that part of the levees raised because of Morelos Dam.

                     Colorado River Flood Control Project

     Imperial Valley Thumbnail

    (click for larger view)
   Under the 1944 Water Treaty the IBWC recommended and the two
   Governments approved a joint project to maintain clear of vegetation
   the channel of the Colorado river and adjoining floodplain through the
   approximately 20 mile (32.2 km) boundary section of the river from
   Morelos Diversion Dam downstream to the point where the Arizona-Sonora
   boundary intersects the river, and further downstream therefrom a
   distance of about 20 miles (32.2 km) in Mexico.

   United States participation was authorized by the Act of Congress of
   August 10, 1964, as amended. The initial clearing was jointly performed
   in 1964 and maintenance clearing is similarly performed annually, under
   the joint supervision of the IBWC.

   This project serves to maintain the flood-carrying capacity of the
   channel and floodway formed by levees on the United States bank and on
   the Mexican bank in the boundary section of the river, and downstream
   therefrom on both banks in Mexico, thereby guarding against flooding of
   extensive irrigated agricultural lands in the United States and in
   Mexico. The effectiveness of the clearing was demonstrated during high
   discharges in 1980, when the project enabled the flows to naturally
   scour and improve the river channel
   .

             Project for Permanent and Definitive Solution to the
         International Problem of the Salinity of the Colorado River

     Salinity Problem Thumbnail

    (click for larger view)
   In 1965, the two Governments approved recommendations of the IBWC for a
   five-year-agreement for remedial measures and procedures by the United
   States to alleviate the problem which arose in 1961-1962 of increased
   salinity of the Colorado River treaty deliveries to Mexico, caused by
   saline drainage waters originating in the United States. The agreement
   was extended for two years to 1972. It provided for the construction
   and operation by the United States of a bypass channel, which could
   pass to the river downstream of Morelos Dam a part of the saline
   drainage waters and enable substitution therefor of low salinity
   waters. Pursuant to a further interim agreement of the IBWC in 1972,
   the salinity of the waters delivered to Mexico was further reduced by
   passing to the river downstream of Morelos Dam an additional part of
   the saline drainage waters and substituting therefor additional waters
   of low salinity.

   On August 30, 1973, agreement was reached by the two Governments under
   the terms of the 1944 Water Treaty for a "Permanent and Definitive
   Solution to the International Problem of the Salinity of the Colorado
   River." The agreement was negotiated by ambassador Herbert Brownell,
   Jr., Special Representative for the United States, and the Secretary of
   Foreign Relations of Mexico, Emilio O. Rabasa, and was incorporated in
   a Minute of the IBWC. This agreement provided for immediate further
   reduction in the salinity of the waters delivered to Mexico,
   stipulating that the United States shall adopt measures to assure that
   the approximately 1,360,000 acre-feet (1,677,545,000 cubic meter)
   delivered upstream of Morelos Dam, have an annual average salinity of
   no more that 115+30 parts per million (ppm) over the annual average
   salinity of the Colorado River at Imperial Dam. The United states
   Congress in the Colorado River Salinity Control Act of June 24, 2974,
   as amended, authorized the United States Bureau of Reclamation,
   Department of the Interior, to construct the works required to
   implement the agreement in the United States. The terms of the
   agreement were immediately put into effect by interim measures
   consisting of the bypassing to the Gulf of California of all of the
   saline drainage waters which created the problem and substituting
   therefor water of low salinity.

   For this purpose the authorization included extension in the United
   States and in Mexico of the bypass drain to carry the drainage and
   later the reject waters from a desalting plant to the Santa Clara
   Slough in Mexico on the Gulf of California. The extension of the bypass
   drain was completed in June 1977 with the part in Mexico constructed by
   its Government at the expense of the United States through arrangements
   made by the IBWC.

   Compliance with the agreement is jointly monitored by the United States
   and Mexican Sections of the IBWC. The waters delivered upstream from
   Morelos Dam are jointly sampled each weekday and they are analyzed for
   their salt content by the United States Section and the Mexican
   Section, and the results are jointly compared by the IBWC. The records
   show that the United States is fully complying with the terms of the
   agreement.

   The Congress of the United States recognized that to continue the
   interim measures to implement the agreement with Mexico would result in
   a serious loss of water needed to meet uses within the Colorado River
   Basin in the United States. To prevent such loss, the Congress in the
   Salinity Control Act authorized the Secretary of the Interior to
   construct, operate and maintain a desalting plant and appurtenant works
   in the United States to reduce the salinity of drain waters from the
   Wellton-Mohawk Irrigation and Drainage District, to enable their
   delivery to Mexico within the terms of the agreement. The Department of
   the Interior has started construction of the desalting plant located
   just west of Yuma, Arizona. The desalting complex is scheduled for
   completion in 1987.


   Boundary Mapping-Colorado River

   As in the case of the Rio Grande, the 1970 Boundary Treaty provides
   that the IBWC shall carry out as soon as practical the necessary
   surveys and shall, with appropriate precision, delineate the
   international boundary on maps or aerial photographic mosaics of the
   Colorado River. The United States Section was authorized to participate
   in this joint undertaking by the American-Mexican Boundary Treaty Act
   of October 25, 1972.

   The boundary follows the middle of the Colorado River for a river
   distance of 24 river miles (38 km) from the point where the
   California-Baja California land boundary intersects the river to the
   point where the Arizona-Sonora land boundary intersects the river.

   Aerial photographic mas of this section of the boundary were completed
   in 1975 and the location of the boundary in the middle of the river was
   jointly delineated thereon by engineers of the two Sections of the
   IBWC. The maps were adopted by the IBWC on September 23, 1986. The
   total costs of the surveys are divided equally as prescribed by the
   1970 Treaty.

   Copies of the maps may be reviewed in the Headquarters of the United
   States Section and the Mexican Section in El Paso, Texas and Ciudad
   Juárez, Chihuahua, respectively. In the United States, copies of the
   maps may be obtained through the United States Geological Survey in
   Denver, Colorado.

                 International Boundary and Water Commission
                            United States Section
                        4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310
                           El Paso, TX  79902-1441
                               1-800-262-8857

   Contact Webmaster
