http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=36

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   PREVENTING YOUTH VIOLENCE


   Annual Report on School Safety

   This report provides a description of the nature and extent of crime
   and violence on school property, and presents information on how
   schools and communities can work together to prevent and address school
   violence.

   Boston Strategy To Prevent Youth Violence

   Report of how Boston embarked on a series of innovative public safety
   strategies that focused on violent youth and illicit gun markets. Using
   a problem-solving approach, a broad coalition of Federal, State, and
   local governmental agencies, nonprofit community service organizations,
   businesses, religious leaders, parents, and resident stakeholders
   developed several programs to address the escalating number of juvenile
   homicides.

   Boston Ten-Point Coalition

   The Boston Ten-Point Coalition -- Operation 2006 participated in
   Boston's Operation Ceasefire neighborhood forums, at which youth were
   given zero tolerance messages and offered services. The Coalition also
   is linked to Boston's strategy to prevent youth violence. The Boston
   Ten-Point Coalition Operation 2006 launched the National Ten-Point
   Coalition to develop similar programs in other cities.

   Drug and Violence Prevention Grants

   Find information about Department of Education and other grant programs
   to support safe and drug free scchools

   Families Able to Resolve Situations (FARS)

   FARS is an effective intervention program for helping parents and youth
   in crisis. The FARS Program seeks to return the responsibility for
   resolving conflicts to the family. FARS uses highly trained volunteers
   to hold mediations between parents and youth.

   Federal Activities Addressing Violence in Schools

   An inventory of federal activities addressing violence in schools
   designed to facilitate the coordination of federal school violence
   prevention activities and enhance collaboration on future projects.

   Fight Crime: Invest in Kids

   FIGHT CRIME: INVEST IN KIDS is a national anti-crime organization led
   by more than 700 police chiefs, sheriffs, police association
   presidents, prosecutors, and survivors of violent crime.

   Funding Sources

   Foundations and Federal agencies that offer funding for programs
   addressing issues of violence and youth-at-risk are listed here.
   Contact information, brief descriptions of the purposes of these
   funding organizationsand guidelines for applying for funds are
   contained in each file.

   Innovative Summer Youth Employment Program: Teens Become Inner City
   Mappers

   A great article in ArcNews Online. Initiated by the Greater Eastside
   Community Association, this unique, collaborative GIS project had three
   basic objectives. The first objective was to provide summer employment
   for inner-city youth; the second was to teach them marketable job
   skills; and the third was to have them provide a service for their
   community by mapping Brownfields in Flint and Genesee County, Michigan.

   National Campaign Against Youth Violence

   The Website of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence is a new,
   national response to the epidemic rates of youth violence in America.
   With the support of the White House, the campaign is an unprecedented
   national public-private partnership dedicated to changing the way
   Americans address violence.

   National CASA

   Concerned over making decisions about abused and neglected children's
   lives without sufficient information, a Seattle judge conceived the
   idea of using trained community volunteers to speak for the best
   interests of these children in court. Today more than 900 Court
   Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) programs are in operation, with
   42,400 women and men serving as CASA volunteers.

   National Crime Prevention Council Homepage

   NCPC's Mission is to "enable people to create safer and more caring
   communities by addressing the causes of crime and violence and reducing
   the opportunities for crime to occur." The nonprofit educaitonal
   organization sponsors public service annoucments including those
   featuring McGruff the Crime Dog, performs technical assistance to
   communities, convenes conferences, and advises policy makers.

   Northwest Detroit Weed and Seed

   Northwest Detroit Weed and Seed is a United States Department of
   Justice crime prevention program designed to weed out crime; and seed
   in positive community services.

   Partnerships Against Violence Network

   PAVNET Online is a "virtual library" of information about violence and
   youth-at-risk, representing data from seven different Federal agencies.
   It is a "one-stop," searchable, information resource to help reduce
   redundancy in information management and provide clear and
   comprehensive access to information for States and local communities.

   Predicting and Preventing Risky Behavior by Teens

   This Washington Post article outlines a new study that highlights the
   risk and "protective" factors of self-destructive teen behavior,
   including violence with weapons. Frequent problems with schoolwork and
   best friends who drink were found the two weapons violence risk factors
   that cut across race and gender.

   Promising Strategies To Reduce Gun Violence

   Promising Strategies To Reduce Gun Violence is designed as a "toolbox"
   to provide law enforcement, State and local elected officials,
   prosecutors, judges, community organizations, and other policymakers
   with practical information about a range of strategies to reduce gun
   violence.

   Safe and Drug Free Schools

   Find out about the Safe and Drug-Free Schools Program - - the Federal
   government's primary vehicle for reducing drug, alcohol and tobacco
   use, and violence, through education and prevention activities in our
   nation's schools. These initiatives are designed to prevent violence in
   and around schools, and strengthen programs that prevent the illegal
   use of alcohol, tobacco, and drugs, involve parents, and are
   coordinated with related Federal, State and community efforts and
   resources. The Safe and Drug-Free Schools Program consists of two major
   programs: State Grants for Drug and Violence Prevention Programs, and
   National Programs.

   San Antonio Fighting Back

   San Antonio Fighting Back is a project of the San Antonio United Way.
   The Fighting Back target area in San Antonio includes the east and
   southeast sections of the city, roughly 20 percent of the total San
   Antonio population. The objectives of Fighting Back are to decrease
   drug-related crimes, expand access to treatment for persons in the
   target area, and to reduce substance abuse among youth. Indicators of
   success include overall reduction in drug related crimes, especially in
   the youth population.

   School Violence

   1-stop for US Department of Justice resources on school violence.

   The Bridge

   This specialized transitional program provides intensive case
   management services for adolescents who are preparing to leave alcohol
   and drug inpatient treatment facilities, juvenile justice facilities or
   other residential settings and return home to their families and
   communities. By providing a gradual "step down" transition from an
   institutional setting back into the community, the program works with
   both adolescents and their families to increase their chances of a
   successful return home and reduce their risk of recidivism.

   Value-Based Violence Prevention Initiative

   The Value-Based Violence Prevention Initiative is a component of San
   Antonio Fighting Backs existing Weed and Seed Program. The program is
   designed to keep young probationers from continuing with criminal
   behavior. Since its start in 1999, the program has enrolled 75
   individuals. Only five have re-offended.

   Violence Prevention Coalition of Greater Los Angeles

   The VPC is the county-wide network of public and private individuals
   and organizations dedicated to addressing violence as a public health
   issue. The VPC includes members from public health, the medical
   community, the judiciary, law enforcement, education, university
   researchers, the media, the faith community the business community,
   youth and many community based organizations.

   Youth Violence Prevention

   Resources for teachers, parents, schools, communities and kids to
   prevent youth violence.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
