http://ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov/htdocs/Liason/2001OctLO_news.pdf

   N N A T I T O N A L P T O X I C OU L O G Y P P R O D G R A M A T E
   October 2001 Headquartered at the National Institute of What's Inside
   Environmental Health Sciences National Institutes of Health Research
   Triangle Park, NC NIEHS / NTP at APHA * NIEHS / NTP Session: Genomics
   and Environmental Health 2 * APHA Exposition - Visit the NTP Booth 2
   Department of Health & * David P. Rall Award for Advocacy in Public
   Health - Dr. David Michaels 2 Human Services Leadership in the NTP /
   ETP * Director of the NTP Office of Liaison and Scientific Review
   Retires 3 * New Leadership Announced for the ETP 3 * Strategic Planning
   by the ETP 4 New NIEHS Scientific Director 4 Board Meetings Online at *
   NTP October Technical Report Review 5 http//ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov
   Report on Carcinogens * 9th Edition - TCDD/Dioxin Addendum 5 * 10th
   Edition Update 6 * 11th Edition Update 7 * Request for Future
   Nominations 7 Testing Program * Chemical Nominations 7 NTP Liaison &
   Scientific * Solicitation for Input and Nomination of Agents for Study
   8 Review Office NIEHS, MD: A3-01 Centers P.O. Box 12233 * NTP Center
   for the Evaluation of Risks to Human Reproduction 9 Research Triangle
   Park, NC 27709 * NTP Center for the Evaluation of Alternative
   Toxicological Methods 10 T: 919-541-0530 Upcoming Workshops F:
   919-541-0295 * Assessment of the Potential Allergenicity of Genetically
   Modified Foods - liaison@starbase.niehs.nih.gov Meeting Rescheduled 12
   * Gene Expression and Proteomics in Environmental Health Research 13 *
   Vietnam - U.S. Scientific Conference on Human Health and Environmental
   Effects of Agent Orange / Dioxins 13 We are pleased to provide the
   information included in this bulletin to update our readers on NTP
   programs and initiatives, as well as to highlight upcoming meetings. We
   invite public input and participation in all aspects of our 2 NIEHS /
   NTP at APHA Visit Us at APHA - Booth #1034 The NTP will exhibit at the
   APHA Public Health Genomics and Environmental Health Exposition, which
   takes place at the Georgia World A special session sponsored by the
   National Congress Center, October 21-24, 2001. The Expo Institute of
   Environmental Health Sciences is the largest and most diverse public
   health exhibit (NIEHS) and the NTP entitled, "Genomics and featuring
   more than 550 booths of information, Environmental Health: Enhancing
   the Public Health state-of-the-art products, and services geared Impact
   of the Research Programs of the NIEHS and towards public health
   professionals. NTP," will be presented at 4:30 p.m. on October 24 The
   NIEHS and the Environmental Health at the annual American Public Health
   Association Perspectives (EHP), the NIEHS scientific journal, (APHA)
   meeting in Atlanta, GA. The session will will also have exhibits at the
   Expo. Check out take place in the Summit Room of the Atlanta booths #
   1036 (NIEHS) and #929 (EHP) if you are Marriott Marquis. in the area.
   NIEHS / NTP have much to share! The NIEHS has a long history of basic
   and practical research on a wide range of topics of importance to NTP
   Congratulates Dr. David Michaels - environmental and public health,
   both through its Recipient of the David P. Rall Award for intramural
   research and extramural grants programs. Advocacy in Public Health
   Included in these programs are the rodent The David P. Rall Award for
   Advocacy in Public toxicology and carcinogenesis testing programs of
   Health is awarded to an individual who has made the NTP. These studies
   have provided a uniform, outstanding contributions to public health
   through high quality database on which many regulatory science-based
   advocacy. This award is in tribute to decisions are based. Scientific
   advances in David P. Rall, MD, PhD, Director of the NIEHS biomarker
   research, genomics and proteomics could from 1971-1990 and founding
   Director of the NTP. substantially reduce the time and expense involved
   Dr. Rall brought scientific research to bear on in generating
   information and hold great promise policy making in environmental
   health and his for improving the quality and relevance of the
   science-based advocacy advanced public health and research products of
   these programs. Advances in prevention across many fields and in many
   fora. genetics are being applied to the field of This prize is endowed
   by the Alliance to End environmental medicine with the intention of
   giving Childhood Lead Poisoning and made possible by doctors a way to
   intervene early in a disease process the contributions of scores of
   individuals and caused by environmental exposures. Programs are
   organizations inspired by Dr. Rall's life work. being developed or are
   underway that place an emphasis on integrating research findings with
   Last year the NTP congratulated the first-ever Rall information on
   actual human exposures to various Award winner, Dr. Eula Bingham PhD,
   MS. Dr. toxicants to provide direct estimates of Bingham is currently a
   professor of environmental environmental effects linked to human
   reproduction health at the University of Cincinnati College of and
   human cancer. This discussion session will Medicine and was recognized
   for "her outstanding highlight some of the existing and planned
   research record of accomplishments in fighting to protect programs of
   the NIEHS and the NTP with the hope workers, consumers, and citizens
   from the danger of of receiving feedback from the public health
   environmental and industrial disease." community, about their relevance
   and potential impact. This year we extend congratulations to the 2001
   award recipient, David Michaels, PhD, MPH. Dr. For additional
   information about this session visit Michaels is an epidemiologist who
   has made the APHA web site at: extraordinary contributions to public
   health through http://apha.confex.com/apha/129am/techprogram/session
   science-based advocacy for regulatory and public _7254.htm policy in
   his work in both academia and government agencies. 3 Dr. Michaels is
   currently active in many areas. He and continues to do. is as a
   research professor of Epidemiology in the Department of Environmental
   and Occupational Dr. George Lucier, former Director of the ETP Health
   at George Washington University; a visiting expressed it best saying,
   "Sandy has become a pillar associate professor at the Albert Einstein
   College of of the NIEHS, but more importantly a pillar of Medicine,
   Department of Epidemiology and Social public health. Her enduring
   commitment to linking Medicine; and an adjunct associate professor at
   the good science to public health policy has been Mount Sinai School of
   Medicine, Department of inspiring to many others and me. I feel very
   Community and Preventive Medicine. In his fortunate to have worked with
   Sandy for many position as Assistant Secretary for Environment, years,
   especially within the context of the National Safety and Health at the
   US Department of Energy Toxicology Program. Her broad and accurate
   (1998 - 2001), he had primary responsibility for understanding and
   integration of science, politics, protecting the health and safety of
   workers, the and human nature, provided a template from which
   neighboring communities, and the environment I learned and benefited,
   allowing me to move surrounding the nation's nuclear weapons complex.
   forward with greater confidence." Congratulations Dr. Michaels! We are
   very honored to have Ms. Lange continue to work with us as she
   contributes her leadership and Leadership in the NTP / ETP expertise to
   the U.S. - Vietnam cooperative research program (see page 13). Director
   of the NTP Office of Liaison and We want to extend our deepest
   gratitude and Scientific Review Retires appreciation for all Ms. Lange
   has done and continues to do for the NIEHS, the NTP and the Sandy
   Lange, Director of the NTP Office of Liaison public, during her career
   serving the American and Scientific Review, for the past nine years,
   people. We congratulate her on a job well done and retired on September
   1. Countless friends, family, thank her for giving so much of her time,
   energy and colleagues gathered at the NIEHS on and life to us.
   September 4 to celebrate Ms. Lange's 33-year career at NIEHS. New
   Leadership Announced for the ETP Beginning her career at NIEHS in 1967,
   Ms. Lange A year after serving as Acting Director of the ETP joined the
   Institute a year into its establishment. of the NIEHS and Acting
   Associate Director of the Upon retirement, she was the longest serving
   NTP, Dr. Christopher J. Portier has been selected to NIEHS employee,
   having seen, been a part of, and head these programs on a permanent
   basis. Dr. coordinated many of the Institute's firsts. Portier retains
   his position as chief of the ETP's Ms. Lange's career at NIEHS is one
   respected, Laboratory of Computational Biology and Risk recognized, and
   admired by many. She served in Analysis. many important NIEHS areas
   including, Dr. Portier has been a leader in the development of
   administrative assistant, administrative officer, staff biologically
   based dose-response models by assistant to the Director, Director of
   the Office of applying the power of computational biology to
   Communications and in 1992, she became the experimental data. He
   currently has a leadership Director of the NTP Office of Liaison and
   Scientific role in the U.S. - Vietnam cooperative research Review and
   assistant to the Environmental program (see page 13) and continues to
   be involved Toxicology Program (ETP) Director. As the in interagency
   and international risk assessment Director of the NTP Office of Liaison
   and Scientific efforts including the NIEHS health assessment of Review,
   Lange said it has been her job to electric and magnetic fields.
   "communicate the best science to the broadest group of people in a way
   they can be empowered John Pritchard, PhD, is the new Associate
   Director with it and understand it." And that she has done for Research
   and will coordinate research efforts between the intramural and
   extramural branches and 4 the NTP. Currently Dr. Pritchard also serves
   as protects public health. Dr. Christopher Portier, ETP Chief of the
   Laboratory of Pharmacology and Director, addressed the status of the
   current Chemistry in ETP. program and outlined future challenges. Guest
   speakers, Dr. Shelley Hearne, Executive Director of Director of the
   NIEHS and the NTP, Kenneth the Trust for America's Health, and Bernard
   Olden, PhD, said Portier has many responsibilities, Goldstein, Dean of
   Graduate School of Public and Prichard will assume responsibility for
   Health at the University of Pittsburgh, presented overseeing and
   coordinating research efforts. Olden talks on public health issues and
   challenges facing said merging the research efforts of intramural, our
   nation. This was followed by talks on new extramural and the NTP has
   been one of his technologies by Drs. Christopher Bradfield of the
   objectives for some time. He feels the result will be University of
   Wisconsin (genomics), Bruce Weir of better science all the way around.
   the North Carolina State University (bioinformatics), and Allen Johnson
   of Duke Strategic Planning by the ETP University (imaging/in vivo
   microscopy). The role of the ETP includes both basic research in Five
   breakout groups met to focus on the integration environmental science
   and directing the activities of of new technologies into the ETP
   research and the NTP. Rapid development of new technologies, testing
   programs. These breakout groups were: particularly in genomics,
   bioinformatics and Cancer, Reproduction and Development, Other imaging,
   holds the promise of generating more Toxicological Endpoints,
   Pathology, and information per animal and using it in increasingly
   Bioinformatics and Data Analysis. The groups penetrating ways to
   address the impact of the individually discussed targeted questions
   environment on human health and disease. The concerning the current and
   future directions of the NTP is in the forefront of this NIEHS-wide
   effort. ETP and the NTP for their topic areas. ETP staff is Our
   challenge is to merge the new technologies into currently reviewing
   input and recommendations our research to insure that the best
   scientific data from the retreat and will use this information to are
   readily accessible to a broad spectrum of users, develop the program's
   strategy for the future. and to provide intelligent interpretation of
   these data. To do so, the program's structure must be flexible enough
   to incorporate new methodologies New NIEHS Scientific Director into the
   NTP's array of testing tools and contain sufficient scientific
   expertise to use the results of Biochemist Lutz Birnbaumer, PhD, is
   NIEHS's new this testing in both protecting public health and
   Scientific Director as of October 1, 2001. formulating research
   strategies to address major uncertainties. Dr. Birnbaumer comes to
   NIEHS from the University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA). At To
   facilitate strategic planning that capitalizes on UCLA he served as
   professor and chair of the this opportunity, an ETP retreat was held
   August Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental 22-23 in
   Wilmington, NC to address the question Biology, professor of
   Anesthesiology and "How should the ETP position itself to meet the
   Biological Chemistry, and a full member of public health challenges of
   today and tomorrow?". UCLA's Institute of Molecular Biology, Brain Led
   by Dr. John Pritchard, PhD, ETP Associate Research Institute and
   Jonsson Comprehensive Director for Research, NIEHS scientists and
   outside Cancer Center. experts gathered to discuss recommendations for
   strengthening and expanding the program. An author of 250 research
   articles, Dr. Birnbaumer has been a member of the NIEHS Board of In the
   opening plenary session, Dr. Kenneth Olden, Scientific Councilors,
   which peer reviews the Director of the NIEHS and NTP, challenged
   Institute's intramural science. He has also had attendees "to go where
   the puck is going" in associations with the Salk Institute, the
   American developing research strategies and investigating Heart
   Association and the Pew Charitable Trusts. new technologies to obtain
   the best science that He has taught international graduate courses in
   cell 5 biology in Belgium, Argentina and Sweden and was complexing
   agent, and polymer additive. It is also an a visiting professor at
   nearly 60 teaching impurity in certain color additives used in
   cosmetics, institutions, including the Cleveland Clinic, Mount food
   products, and pharmaceuticals. Sinai School of Medicine, Harvard
   University, Diazoaminobenzene was selected for metabolism Duke
   University and the University of North and toxicity studies based on
   the potential for worker Carolina-Chapel Hill. exposure from its use in
   laboratories, positive Salmonella typhimurium data, its presence as an
   J. Carl Barrett, PhD, was scientific director of impurity in foods and
   cosmetics, and the lack of NIEHS until last year. He was with NIEHS for
   23 adequate toxicity data. years. Paul Nettesheim, MD, DMS, served as
   Subcommittee action son these reports are available acting scientific
   director in the interim. on the NTP web site. Printed copies of these
   draft reports are available from: Central Data NTP Boards Management,
   NIEHS, P.O. Box 12233, MD E1-02, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709; T:
   919-541- October 18 NTP Technical Report Review 3419; F: 919-541-3687;
   cdm@niehs.nih.gov. The NTP Board of Scientific Counselors Technical For
   additional information, contact Dr. Mary S. Reports Review Subcommittee
   met October 18, Wolfe, NTP Executive Secretary at: 919-541-3971 2001 at
   the NIEHS in Research Triangle Park, or wolfe@niehs.nih.gov. North
   Carolina. This subcommittee provides independent scientific peer review
   of draft technical Report on Carcinogens reports of NTP long-term
   toxicology and carcinogenesis studies. The candidate technical 9th
   Edition - TCDD/Dioxin Addendum reports for this review included:
   vanadium pentoxide, riddelliine, 2,4-hexadienal and Prepared by the
   NTP, the Report on Carcinogens diazoaminobenzene. The peer review was
   open to (RoC) identifies substances -- such as metals, the public and
   time was available for public pesticides, drugs, and natural and
   synthetic comment on the reports. chemicals -- mixtures or exposure
   circumstances that are "known" or are "reasonably anticipated" to *
   Vanadium pentoxide is commercially the most be human carcinogens, and
   to which a significant important compound of vanadium and presents a
   number of Americans are exposed. potential occupational hazard during
   the cleaning of oil-fired boilers and furnaces, the handling of The 9th
   Edition of the RoC is the most recent and catalysts, and during the
   refining, processing, or was published in May 2000. An addendum to the
   burning of vanadium-rich mineral ores or fossil 9th RoC was published
   in January 2001 and issued fuels. * Riddelliine belongs to a class of
   toxic pyrrolizidine to change the listing of
   2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- alkaloids and is isolated from plants of
   the genera p-dioxin CAS No. 1746-01-6, also known as Crotalaria,
   Amsinckia, and Senecio that grow in the "TCDD" or "Dioxin," to a "known
   to be human western United States. Cattle, horses, and sheep that
   carcinogen," from its previous listing as "reasonably ingest these
   plants succumb to their toxic effects. anticipated to be a human
   carcinogen." Publication Riddelliine residues have been found in meat,
   milk, of the addendum followed the ruling by the US and honey, and the
   plants may contaminate human Court of Appeals for the District of
   Columbia food sources. Circuit denying the request for an injunction to
   * 2,4-Hexadienal, a colorless to yellow liquid with a prevent the
   listing of TCDD as a "known human pungent "green" or citrus odor, is
   used as a food carcinogen" in the 9th Report, pending appeal of the
   additive for flavor enhancement, as a fragrance district court's
   decision upholding the listing. The agent, as a starting material or
   intermediate in synthetic reactions in the chemical and proposal to
   list TCDD as a "known human pharmaceutical industries, as a fumigant,
   and as a carcinogen" was reviewed in the same way and at corrosion
   inhibitor for steel. the same time as the other new listings for the
   9th * Diazoaminobenzene is used as an intermediate, 6 RoC. The review
   procedure is outlined in Section V * Broad Spectrum UV Radiation and
   UVA and of the 9th RoC and on the NTP web site. UVB and UVC Solar and
   artificial sources of ultraviolet radiation. The revised 9th RoC that
   contains all addendum * Chloramphenicol materials is available on the
   Internet from the NTP Used widely as an antibiotic since the 1950s. web
   page at http://ntp- Veterinary use of chloramphenicol has resulted in
   server.niehs.nih.gov/NewHomeRoC/AboutRoC.html or the occurrence of
   residues in animal-derived food. by contacting Dr. C.W. Jameson, Head,
   Report on * Estrogens, Steroidal Carcinogens (contact information
   below). Estrogens are widely used in oral contraceptives and in
   post-menopausal therapy for women. * Methyleugenol 10th Edition of the
   Report on Carcinogens Flavoring agent used in jellies, baked goods,
   Scientific review of the nominations being nonalcoholic beverages,
   candy, and ice cream. Also considered for inclusion in the 10th edition
   of the used as a fragrance for many perfumes and soaps. * Nickel
   (metallic) & Certain Nickel Alloys RoC is completed. This group of
   nominations Widely used in commercial applications for over includes
   the following: 100 years. * Beryllium and Beryllium Compounds *
   Trichloroethylene Used in fiber optics and cellular network
   Trichloroethylene is widely used as a solvent with communications
   systems, aerospace, defense and 80-90% used worldwide for degreasing
   metals. other industry applications. Reviewed for possible * Wood Dust
   change to a known human carcinogen. It is estimated that at least two
   million people are * 2,3-Dibromo-1-propanol routinely exposed
   occupationally to wood dust Used as a flame retardant, as an
   intermediate in the worldwide. Non-occupational exposure also occurs.
   preparation of the flame-retardant tris(2,3- The highest exposures have
   generally been reported dibromopropyl) phosphate, and as an
   intermediate in in wood furniture and cabinet manufacture, the
   manufacture of pesticides and pharmaceutical especially during machine
   sanding and similar preparations. operations. * 2,2-Bis-(Bromomethyl)
   1,3-propanediol The NTP will review the recommendations from all Used
   as a fire retardant in unsaturated polyester review committees,
   including the Federal resins, in molded products, and in rigid
   polyurethane foam. interagency NTP Executive Committee, and will * Dyes
   Metabolized to 3,3 -Dimethoxybenzidine consider all public comments
   received throughout (Dimethoxybenzidine Dyes as a Class) the process in
   making decisions regarding the NTP Dyes formerly widely used for
   leather, paper, recommendations to the Secretary, Department of
   plastics, rubber, and textile industries. Health and Human Services,
   for listing of the * Dyes Metabolized to 3,3-Dimethylbenzidine
   nominated substances in the 10th RoC. The 10th (Dimethylbenzidine Dyes
   as a Class) RoC is scheduled for submission to Congress in Dyes
   formerly widely used for leather, paper, 2002. plastics, rubber, and
   textile industries. * IQ (2-Amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline)
   Final public comments for all nominations have Found in cooked meat and
   fish. been received. A table of the recommendations for *
   Styrene-7,8-oxide these nominations from the three scientific peer Used
   mainly in the preparation of fragrances and in review committees for
   listing in the 10th RoC can be some epoxy resin formulations. accessed
   through the NTP home page on the web * Vinyl Bromide at:
   http://ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov/ or by contacting Used commercially
   since 1968, primarily in the manufacture of flame retardant synthetic
   fibers. Dr. C. W. Jameson at the address provided below. * Vinyl
   Fluoride All public comments as well as background Used commercially
   since the 1960s, in the documents, provided to the review committees
   and production of polyvinylfluoride that is used for plastics. the
   public, are available in PDF version on the web site referenced above.
   Hard copies of these documents are available upon request. 7 11th
   Edition of the Report on Carcinogens * Phenylimidazopyridine, which,
   like MeIQ (second item above), is formed in food during heating and The
   NTP initiated scientific review of the cooking and is found in cooked
   meat and fish. nominations under consideration for inclusion in the *
   4,4'-Thiodianiline, which is an intermediate in the 11th edition of the
   RoC, which is scheduled for manufacture of several dyes. publication in
   2004. This group of nominations includes the following: The NTP is
   currently soliciting initial public comment on this set of nominations.
   Comments * 1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone, a vat dye should be
   directed to Dr. C. W. Jameson at the used in the textile industry.
   address listed below. * 2-Amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (or
   MeIQ), a substance formed in food during heating or The criteria and a
   description of the RoC review cooking and found in cooked meat and
   fish. process can be obtained through the NTP * Cobalt Sulfate, which
   is used in electroplating and homepage: http://ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov
   (see electrochemical industries; as a coloring agent for Report on
   Carcinogens) or by contacting Dr. ceramics; as a drying agent in inks,
   paints, varnishes Jameson (see below). and linoleum; and as a mineral
   supplement in animal feed. NTP Requests Nominations for Future *
   Diazoaminobenzene (DAAB), which is used to Evaluation for
   Listing/Delisting in the RoC promote adhesion of natural rubber to
   steel, as a polymer additive and an intermediate in the The NTP
   solicits and encourages the broadest production of a number of
   pesticides, dyes and other participation from interested individuals or
   parties industrial chemicals. in nominating agents, substances,
   mixtures, or * Diethanolamine (DEA), which is used in machine exposure
   circumstances for listing in or delisting oils and metal cutting fluids
   and in the preparation of from the RoC. When possible, nominations
   should liquid laundry and dishwashing detergents, contain a rationale
   for the listing or delisting and cosmetics, shampoos and hair
   conditioners, as well appropriate supporting background information and
   as in textile processing and other industrial uses. relevant data
   (e.g., journal articles, NTP Technical * Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), a
   small DNA-enveloped Reports, IARC listings, exposure surveys, release
   virus that is transmitted through contact with blood inventories).
   Nominations should be directed to Dr. and blood products or other body
   fluids. Jameson at the following address. * Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), an
   RNA-enveloped virus mainly transmitted in blood as is HBV above. Dr.
   C.W. Jameson, Head, Report on Carcinogens, * High Risk Human
   Papillomaviruses (HPVs), NIEHS/NIH, 79 Alexander Drive, Rm. 3118, P.O.
   small non-enveloped viruses that infect genital Box 12233, MD EC-14,
   Research Triangle Park, mucous membranes. HPV infections are common NC
   27709; T: 919-541-4096; F: 919-541-0144, throughout the world.
   jameson@niehs.nih.gov * X-radiation and gamma radiation, used in
   medical diagnosis and treatment, and produced in the use of atomic
   weapons. NTP TESTING PROGRAM * Neutrons, which may affect patients
   getting neutron radiotherapy and the passengers and crew of aircraft,
   NTP Chemical Testing Nominations which are naturally bombarded by the
   particles. * Naphthalene, which is used in making many The NTP
   Interagency Committee for Chemical industrial chemicals and as an
   ingredient in some Evaluation and Coordination (ICCEC) makes mothballs
   and toilet bowl deodorants. testing recommendations on nominated
   substances * Nitrobenzene, which is used in the production of and
   serves as the first level of review in the NTP's aniline, a major
   chemical intermediate in the formal chemical nomination and selection
   process. production of dyes. Recently, the ICCEC met and evaluated a
   group of * Nitromethane, a stabilizer added to many substances
   nominated to the NTP for toxicology halogenated solvents and aerosol
   propellants. and carcinogenicity testing. Notice of this meeting *
   Occupational Exposure to Lead or Lead including a request for public
   comment on these Compounds, major occupational exposures are in
   nominations and the ICCEC's testing the lead smelting and refining
   industries, battery- recommendations was published in the Federal
   manufacturing plants, steel welding or cutting Register July 25, 2001
   (66FR38717). operations, construction, and firing ranges. 8 The
   nominated substances under consideration toxicity and determine
   possible adverse effects that include environmental contaminants,
   industrial might be associated with human and environmental chemicals,
   and consumer products. The substances exposure. Health-related effects
   addressed include for which the ICCEC recommends one or more subchronic
   toxicity, genetic toxicity, chronic types of toxicity testing are:
   toxicity and carcinogenicity, as well as effects on reproduction and
   development and the immune, * Bladderwrack respiratory and central
   nervous systems. Studies are * Cylindrospermopsin *
   Epigallocatechin-3-gallate also designed to address specific data gaps
   for * 2-Ethylhexyl-p-dimethylaminobenzoic acid priority substances such
   as biological fate, * Grape seed and pine bark extracts mechanisms of
   toxicity and other adverse effects * Metalworking fluids that may be of
   human health concern. Data * Methyl tetrahydrofuran generated from NTP
   studies are critical to * Polybrominated diphenyl ethers strengthening
   the science base used by regulatory agencies for assessments of human
   health hazards The nominated substances for which a testing associated
   with exposure to those chemicals and recommendation is deferred pending
   the receipt and agents studied. The NTP also supports an active
   consideration of additional information are: program to develop and
   validate new and improved * n-Butyl bromide assays for chemical
   toxicity and test methods and * Methyl soyate systems that eliminate or
   minimize the use of laboratory animals. The nominated substances for
   which no testing is recommended at this time are: Each nomination is
   considered carefully in order to * Apigenin maximize the use of
   available resources. Chemicals * Dibenzofuran or other agents for which
   a significant portion of the * Diphenolic acid population are known to
   be exposed and for which there is a lack of available adequate
   toxicological Additional opportunity for public comment will be
   information are the best candidates for study. provided at a future NTP
   Board of Scientific Counselors meeting. Following this review by the
   The NTP invites the submission of nominations. NTP Board and further
   review and approval of the All nominations should be accompanied by a
   testing recommendations by the NTP Executive rationale for study, i.e.
   populations exposed, source Committee, the appropriate NTP studies will
   be of exposure, any known adverse health effects, etc. designed and
   implemented as resources and time When possible, nominations should
   also be permits. Further information is available on the web
   accompanied by available information describing at: http://ntp-
   production and use, possible adverse effects
   server.niehs.nih.gov/htdocs/Liason/ICCEC010508FR.html associated with
   exposure, as well as a chemical name, structure and CAS number. The NTP
   NTP Solicits Input and Nominations of considers each nomination as it
   is received and Agents for Study conducts a literature search to
   supplement any supporting documentation on the nomination prior The
   nomination and selection process is integral to to its review and
   prioritization for future evaluation. the effective operation and
   success of the NTP's The nominator is informed of the status of the
   testing program with respect to its testing of nomination as it moves
   through the review, chemicals of greatest public health concern. The
   selection and testing process. NTP solicits nominations of new
   chemicals and agents for study from multiple sources including In
   addition to formal nominations for study, academia, industry, labor
   unions, Federal and State comments on testing directions and priorities
   are agencies and the general public. welcome. Some current testing
   initiatives include the study of botanical dietary supplements,
   drinking NTP studies include research and testing of selected water
   contaminants, occupational exposures and chemicals and agents in order
   to characterize their mixtures, and DNA-based therapeutic agents. It is
   9 important, however, to emphasize that the NTP CERHR Evaluation of
   Methanol seeks the broadest participation in the nomination process and
   nominations need not be limited to any The CERHR Methanol Expert Panel
   met in of these areas. Alexandria, VA on October 15-17, 2001 to conduct
   its evaluation of methanol. Methanol is a Nominations and inquires
   regarding nominations or commercially important, high production volume
   testing initiatives should be addressed to: chemical (10.54 billion
   pounds, US production, Dr. Scott Masten, Office of Chemical Nomination
   1993) that has a high potential for occupational, and Selection, NIEHS,
   P.O. Box 12233, MD B3-10, consumer, and environmental exposure. This
   Research Triangle Park, NC 27709; T: (919) 541- meeting was open to the
   public and time was made 5710; F: (919) 558-7067; masten@niehs.nih.gov.
   available for oral public comments. NTP Center for the Evaluation
   Further information on this meeting is posted on the CERHR web site.
   Questions and requests for of Risks to Human additional information
   should be directed to Dr. Michael Shelby, Director CERHR (see contact
   Reproduction (CERHR) information below). The NTP and the NIEHS
   established CERHR in CERHR Evaluation of Bromopropanes June 1998. The
   purpose of the Center is to provide timely and unbiased, scientifically
   sound The CERHR Bromopropanes Expert Panel will evaluations of human
   and experimental evidence for meet in Herndon, VA on December 5-7, 2001
   to adverse effects on reproduction, including conduct its evaluations
   of 1-bromopropane and 2- development, which may be caused by agents to
   bromopropane. The bromopropanes were selected which humans are exposed.
   for evaluation based upon several factors including the reported human
   reproductive toxicity of 2- Review of Phthalate Esters Nears
   bromopropane, the use of 1-bromopropane as a Completion solvent and
   component of some spray adhesives, the proposed new uses as
   replacements for ozone The Phthalate Expert Panel completed its
   evaluation depleting hydrochlorofluorocarbons and chlorinated of the
   following seven phthalate esters for potential solvents, and a
   substantial data base on reproductive reproductive and developmental
   toxicity in July and developmental toxicity. The Bromopropanes 2000.
   Expert Panel draft reports (sections 1-4) will be available for public
   comment in mid-October, * butyl benzyl phthalate * di(2-ethylhexyl)
   phthalate 2001.This meeting will be open to the public and *
   di-isodecyl phthalate time will be available for oral public comments.
   * di-isononyl phthalate Further information on this meeting will be *
   di-n-butyl phthalate * di-n-hexyl phthalate provided through the
   Federal Register and posted * di-n-octyl phthalate on the CERHR web
   site. Questions and requests for additional information should be
   directed to Dr. Public comments on these reports were received Michael
   Shelby, Director CERHR (see contact through December 11, 2000. The
   CERHR is in the information below). process of preparing its Center
   Reports on these seven phthalates. Future Reviews The Expert Panel
   Reports for the individual An evaluation of ethylene glycol will be
   conducted phthalates are available electronically on the in 2002. The
   panel membership and meeting CERHR's web site,
   http://cerhr.niehs.nih.gov or in schedule are yet to be determined.
   hardcopy by contacting the Center (contact information provided below).
   10 CERHR Prepares Guidelines for Expert and replace animal use. The
   ICCVAM was Panels established in 1997 to coordinate cross-agency issues
   on the development, validation, acceptance, Public comments on the
   CERHR draft guidelines and national/international harmonization of for
   expert panels were received from April 25 to toxicological test
   methods. ICCVAM was June 11, 2001. The draft guidelines are available
   on established as a permanent committee by the the CERHR web site and
   are currently under ICCVAM Authorization Act of 2000 (Public Law
   revision. These guidelines will aid in preparation of 106-545). the
   Expert Panel Reports, promote understanding among panel members
   regarding the evaluation Update on Recent ICCVAM/NICEATM process, and
   help facilitate consistency among Meetings reports. International
   Workshop on In Vitro Methods for CERHR Solicits Nominations Assessing
   Acute Systemic Toxicity The CERHR conducts reviews on man-made or
   ICCVAM and NICEATM organized an naturally occurring chemicals or
   chemical mixtures international workshop October 17-20, 2000 in and
   welcomes the nomination of chemicals for Arlington, VA. The goals of
   the workshop were to: future evaluations. Nominations are welcome from
   1) assess the current status of in vitro test methods all interested
   individuals and groups. Nominations for evaluating the acute systemic
   toxicity potential should include the chemical's name, Chemical of
   chemicals, 2) recommend validation efforts Abstract Service registry
   number (if known), and a necessary to further characterize existing
   methods, justification for the nomination. As possible, and 3) to
   identify research and development needed reference or submit articles
   on the chemical and its to further improve the usefulness of in vitro
   potential reproductive or developmental toxicity. methods for acute
   toxicity. The four major topics discussed were: Nominations can be
   submitted through the CERHR web site, choose Nominate a Chemical, or
   directly * in vitro screening methods for assessing acute to: Dr.
   Michael Shelby, Director, CERHR, NIEHS, toxicity P.O. Box 12233, MD
   EC-32, Research Triangle * in vitro methods for toxicokinetic
   determinations Park, NC 27709; T: 919-541-3455; F: 919-541- * in vitro
   methods for predicting organ-specific 4636; shelby@niehs.nih.gov.
   toxicity * chemical data sets for validation of in vitro acute CERHR
   Web Site toxicity test methods. http://cerhr.niehs.nih.gov The final
   Workshop Report and a guidance document that describes how in vitro
   methods can NTP Interagency Center for be used to estimate the starting
   dose for animal studies are now available on the the Evaluation of
   Alternative ICCVAM/NICEATM web site at:
   http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/methods/invitro.htm Toxicological Methods
   (NICEATM) Both report's availability and a request for public comment
   were announced in a recently published Federal Register notice (Vol.
   66, No. 189, pp. The NTP Interagency Center for the Evaluation of
   49686-49687, Sept. 28, 2001) which can be viewed Alternative
   Toxicological Methods (NICEATM) at:
   http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/docs/FR/6649686.htm and the Interagency
   Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative Methods
   (ICCVAM) Public comments are requested by November 13, collaborate to
   develop, validate, and achieve 2001 and should be submitted to Dr.
   Stokes, regulatory acceptance of new and improved test Director,
   NICEATM (see contact information that methods, including methods that
   will reduce, refine, follows). 11 Peer Review Teleconference Meeting on
   the Up- In Vitro Corrosivity Methods and-Down Procedure for Acute Oral
   Toxicity Three alternative in vitro test methods  A public
   teleconference meeting of the Up-and- EpiDerm , EPISKIN , and the Rat
   Skin Down Procedure (UDP) independent scientific peer Transcutaneous
   Electrical Resistance (TER) assay  review panel (Panel) was held on
   Tuesday, August were developed and have subsequently been 21, 2001 in
   Research Triangle Park, NC. The accepted as replacement assays for
   traditional in agenda for this meeting focused on a discussion of vivo
   corrosivity testing in the European Union. The the following: 1) the
   revised draft UDP, modified in evaluation of these assays was part of
   an expedited response to recommendations from the July 2000 ICCVAM
   review of the validation status and Panel meeting; 2) a proposed
   procedure for possible current uses of in vitro test methods to
   calculating the confidence interval for the estimated assess the dermal
   corrosivity potential of chemicals LD50; and 3) a software program to
   aid in dose and chemical mixtures. This ICCVAM expedited selection,
   test-stopping decisions, calculation of an test method review process
   will accelerate estimated LD50, and calculation of a confidence
   interagency consideration of these test methods, interval around the
   LD50. thereby avoiding duplication of effort and unnecessary delays in
   recommending useful test The revised draft UDP was proposed by the U.S.
   methods to Federal agencies in accordance with Environmental Protection
   Agency (EPA) to Public Law 106-545. ICCVAM as an alternate for the
   existing conventional LD50 test (EPA 870.1100) used to EpiDerm and
   EPISKIN utilize a three- evaluate the acute oral toxicity of chemicals.
   A dimensional human skin model comprised of a previous version of the
   draft UDP was reviewed by reconstructed epidermis and a functional
   stratum the UDP Peer Review Panel at a meeting on July corneum to which
   the test chemical is applied and 25, 2000 organized by NICEATM and
   ICCVAM. subsequent cell viability is measured. Rat Skin The proposed
   procedure for calculating the TER assesses the skin corrosivity of a
   chemical by confidence interval for the estimated LD50 is a applying
   the test material to the epidermal surface statistical calculation and
   does not require the use of of a rat skin disc for two and 24 hours;
   test animals beyond what is needed to estimate the subsequently, the
   transcutaneous electrical LD50. This procedure helps to place the
   estimated resistance (TER) of the skin disc is measured. LD50 in a
   statistical context for hazard and risk assessment purposes. The
   Background Review Document and proposed ICCVAM recommendations were
   made available to Because the generation of parameters for this the
   public for comment in a Federal Register notice revised draft UDP is
   computationally intensive, the (Vol. 66, No. 189, pp. 49686-49687,
   September 28, EPA developed a simple-to-use software program to 2001)
   and are available on the Internet at: aid in dose selection,
   test-stopping decisions,
   http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/methods/epiddocs/epis_brd.pdf. calculation
   of an estimate of the LD50, and Public comments are requested by
   November 13, calculation of a confidence interval around the 2001 and
   should be submitted to Dr. Stokes, LD50. NICEATM Director (see contact
   information that follows). The Peer Review Panel's final report is
   currently being finalized and will be made available for Endocrine
   Disruptor Screening Methods public comment in an upcoming Federal
   Register notice and on the ICCVAM/NICEATM web site in ICCVAM and
   NICEATM are planning an the near future. Independent Peer Review Panel
   meeting to assess the validation status of several in vitro assays
   Current Test Method Activities proposed for use in the EPA's Endocrine
   Disruptor Screening Program (EDSP). The proposed estrogen and androgen
   receptor binding and transcriptional activation assays are relevant for
   screening purposes 12 in the EDSP because a number of chemical
   Toxicological Methods, Environmental Toxicology substances may alter
   natural endocrine processes in Program, NIEHS/NTP, MD EC-17, P. O. Box
   the body by binding with estrogen and/or androgen 12233, Research
   Triangle Park, NC 27709; T: 919- receptors and either initiating or
   inhibiting sex 541-7997; F: 919-541-0947; hormone dependent gene
   activation. NICEATM is niceatm@niehs.nih.gov currently preparing
   background review documents (BRDs) on in vitro estrogen receptor and
   androgen UPCOMING WORKSHOPS receptor binding and transcriptional
   activation assays. The documents will provide comprehensive reviews of
   available data and related information Assessment of the Potential
   Allergenicity of necessary to evaluate the validation status of these
   Genetically Modified Foods - Meeting assays. Rescheduled A request for
   data and nominations of expert The general public and the scientific
   community are scientists to serve on the peer review panel for
   increasingly concerned regarding the potential evaluation of these in
   vitro endocrine disruptor toxicity of genetically modified (GM) foods.
   Of screening methods was announced in a recent specific interest is the
   ability of GM proteins to Federal Register notice with submission
   requested elicit potentially harmful immunologic responses by May 23,
   2001 (Vol. 66, No. 57, pp. 16278-16279, including hypersensitivity
   and/or autoimmunity. March 23, 2001). This Federal Register notice may
   The lack of information on the potential toxicity of be found on the
   Internet at these products has created a considerable backlash
   http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/methods/endocrine.htm against the producers
   and users of these crops. To The Peer Review Panel meeting is scheduled
   to take address these issues, the NTP along with the EPA place on May
   21-22, 2002 in Durham, NC. Details and the U.S. Food and Drug
   Administration is of this meeting will be announced in an upcoming
   sponsoring a workshop on the safety assessment of Federal Register
   notice and posted on the GM foods. ICCVAM/NICEATM web site at:
   Originally scheduled to be held September 24-26,
   http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/methods/endocrine.htm the meeting will now
   be held December 10-12, Future Meeting 2001 in Research Triangle Park,
   NC. The goals of this meeting are to examine the current state of
   knowledge in this area, to identify the critical issues Acute Toxicity
   Testing Workshop regarding GM materials, and to develop testing ICCVAM
   in partnership with the EPA, the NIEHS, strategies for examining the
   toxicity of these and the International Life Sciences Institute will
   compounds. Participants will include experts in sponsor a training
   workshop on new alternative in food allergy, GM crops, and the
   regulatory aspects vitro and in vivo methods for assessing acute oral
   of these products. toxicity. The workshop will be held February 19- For
   registration information, contact Ms. Angie 21, 2002 at the National
   Institutes of Health Natcher Sanders, NTP Office of Liaison and
   Scientific Conference Center, Bethesda, MD. Review, 111 T.W. Alexander
   Drive, NIEHS, Additional information pertaining to registration MD
   A3-02, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709: T: and participation will be
   available in the near 919-541-0530); F: 919-541-0295; future on the
   ICCVAM/NICEATM web site. sanders5@niehs.nih.gov For further information
   on ICCVAM and For additional information or to view the NICEATM, please
   visit the web site at registration package, please access the meeting
   web http://iccvam.niehs.nih.gov/ or contact: page located on the NTP
   web site: http://ntp- Dr. William S. Stokes, Director, NTP Interagency
   server.niehs.nih.gov/htdocs/Liason/GMFoodPg.html Center for the
   Evaluation of Alternative 13 Gene Expression and Proteomics in
   Vietnam-United States Scientific Environmental Health Research
   Conference on Human Health and Environmental Effects of Agent This
   symposium, conducted by the National Center Orange/Dioxins for
   Toxicogenomics (NCT), will be held December 3-4, 2001, in the Natcher
   Center, National Institutes This conference will be held March 3-6,
   2002 at the of Health, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD. The Daewoo
   Hotel, Hanoi, Vietnam, and is being goal of the symposium is to bring
   together organized under the auspices of a joint U.S.- outstanding
   experts in the fields of functional Vietnam cooperative research
   program on the health genomics, proteomics, toxicology, informatics,
   and and environmental effects of Agent Orange/dioxin. database
   development. The new science of In July 2001 the governments of Vietnam
   and the toxicogenomics aims to discover mechanisms by United States
   agreed to organize a conference that combining clinical, genomic, and
   proteomic would bring together experts throughout the world knowledge
   into a common framework for to provide a broad assessment of the data
   available understanding the biochemical and genetic on the health and
   environmental effects of Agent pathways to disease. The meeting format
   will Orange/dioxin and the needs for future research. consist of
   presentations by invited speakers as well This conference will be used
   to identify future as discussion leaders to facilitate a free exchange
   of research directions and provide a foundation for information. The
   symposium is designed to bring future cooperative research projects and
   funding. together a diverse group of scientists working in the areas of
   gene environment interactions, toxicology, Conference Goals genomics,
   informatics, and database development. * Exchange of current scientific
   information on the The NIEHS recently established the NCT to health and
   environmental effects of Agent coordinate an international research
   effort for Orange/dioxins. developing the field of toxicogenomics. *
   Exchange of current scientific information on Toxicogenomics is a new
   scientific field that remediation measures to reduce exposures to Agent
   elucidates how the entire genome is involved in Orange/dioxins in
   humans and the environment. * Examine the current state of knowledge
   and biological responses of organisms exposed to identify future
   research needs. environmental toxicants/stressors. It combines
   information from studies of genomic-scale mRNA Topics to be Covered
   profiling (by microarray analysis), cell-wide or tissue-wide protein
   profiling (proteomics), genetic Invited speakers will address specific
   issues on: susceptibility, and computational models to * health effects
   of Agent Orange/dioxin understand the roles of gene-environment * birth
   outcome interactions in disease. * other health effects in women and
   children * cancer risks For further information about this symposium,
   visit * non-cancer health outcomes the NCT web site at: * global levels
   of dioxins and related compounds in
   http://www.niehs.nih.gov/nct/workshop.htm human tissues * methods for
   reducing human body burdens For additional information about the NCT
   visit its * environmental effects of Agent Orange/dioxin web site at:
   http://www.niehs.nih.gov/nct/home.htm * environmental levels in
   Vietnam, the United States or contact Dr. Raymond W. Tennant, Director,
   and elsewhere NCT, NIEHS, P.O. Box 12233, MD F1-05, * environmental
   fate and transport Research Triangle Park, NC 27709; T: 919-541- *
   environmental remediation 4141; F: 919-541-1460; tennant@niehs.nih.gov
   * ecological effects on animals and plants Simultaneous Breakout
   Sessions Human Health Effects Reproduction and Development 14 Human
   Exposure and Body Burden Reduction * Dr. Drue Barrett, Centers for
   Disease Control and Cancer Prevention Immunology Endocrinology * Dr.
   Linda Schwartz, School of Nursing, Yale University Environmental
   Effects * Dr. Brenda Eskenazi, University of California - Environmental
   Sampling: Methods and Results Berkeley Clean up and Restoration:
   Methods and Techniques * Ms. Sandra Lange, NIEHS, NIH (US Coordinator)
   Fate and Transport Ecosystems Impacts Vietnam * Prof. Dr. Le Ngoc
   Trong, Vice Minister, Ministry of Poster Sessions Health Posters will
   facilitate further discussion and * Dr. Nguyen Ngoc Sinh, Director
   General, National examination of topics related to the current
   Environment Agency scientific understanding of the health and * Dr.
   Nguyen Van Tuong, Hanoi Medicine College, environmental effects of
   Agent Orange/dioxin. If Ministry of Health you are interested in
   presenting a poster, please * Dr. Tran Van Phuong, Ministry of Health
   check "request for instructions for abstract (Vietnamese Coordinator)
   submission and poster instructions" when * Mr. Tran Van Tu, Ministry of
   Foreign Affairs responding for registration and/or additional
   information. * Dr. Dang Vinh Thien, Vietnam Association on Conservation
   of Nature and Environment Protection Special Sessions * Dr. Tran Manh
   Hung, General Association of Medicine and Pharmacy of Vietnam
   Educational training sessions and/or field trips are being explored and
   would be scheduled to precede Additional conference and registration
   information the Conference Opening on Sunday, March 3. can be obtained
   by contacting the NTP Office of Liaison and Scientific Review, NIEHS,
   P.O. Box Conference Organizing Committee 12233, MD: A3-01 Research
   Triangle Park, NC 27709 USA, T: 919-541-0530; F: 919-541-0295; United
   States liaison@starbase.niehs.nih.gov * Dr. Christopher Portier,
   National Institute of Background information on the U.S.-Vietnam
   Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), National Cooperative Research
   Program can be found Institutes of Health (NIH) at:
   http://www.niehs.nih.gov/external/usvcrp/hom.e .htm * Dr. Walter Rogan,
   NIEHS, NIH * Dr. William Farland, US EPA The NTP Update is issued
   approximately four times each year. To subscribe to the "list-server"
   and receive the NTP Update as well as other NTP news and announcements
   electronically, register online at http://ntp- server.niehs.nih.gov,
   send email to ntpmail-request@list.niehs.nih.gov with the word
   "subscribe" as the body of the message, or contact the NTP Office of
   Liaison and Scientific Review (see first page). Additional information
   about the NTP along with announcements of meetings, publications, study
   results and its centers is available on the Internet at
   http://ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov. Environmental Health Information
   Service (EHIS) maintains the library of NTP Technical Reports and adds
   new reports as available. To gain access to these reports, contact EHIS
   online at: http://ehis.niehs.nih.gov or call 1-800-315-3010 or
   919-541-3841.
