http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/01/20020115.html


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag

    Home > News & Policies
                          Printer-Friendly Version

                                                     For Immediate Release
                                             Office of the Press Secretary
                                                          January 15, 2002

   President Talks Trade in New Orleans

         watch View the President's Remarks
         listen Listen to the President's Remarks
         Fact sheet Working for America
   President George W. Bush talks with workers at the Port of New Orleans,
   Tuesday, Jan. 15, 2002. White House photo by Eric Draper.

   REMARKS BY THE PRESIDENT ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE

   The Port of New Orleans New Orleans, Louisiana

   9:23 A.M. CST

   THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all very much.  It's great to be back in what
   they call the Big Easy.  (Applause.)  As you might remember, I grew up
   in Texas, and spent some quality time here in New
   Orleans.  (Applause.)  I forgot how good the food is.  I'm going to
   have to spend about a week working off that baked Alaska that I had at
   Antoine's.  (Laughter.)

   I didn't have any pretzels last night for dinner.  (Laughter.)  I
   learned my lesson -- always listen to your mother, who told me, chew
   your pretzels before you swallow.  (Laughter.)

   But thank you all for coming.  It is a beautiful day in a great city
   and an important part of our economy, and that is the Port of New
   Orleans.  I want to thank Gary LeGrange who is the Executive Director
   of this facility.  I want to thank the Secretary of Commerce Don Evans,
   who is traveling with me.  I want to thank the Chairman of the Port of
   New Orleans Board of Commissioners.  I want to thank Dave Wagner.  I
   want to thank Jim Campbell, who is the President of the International
   Longshoremen Association Number 3,000.  I want to thank all the
   hardworking longshoremen who are here to help make America grow.

   I want to thank my friend, the Governor of the great state of
   Louisiana.  What a piece of work that guy is.  (Applause.)  That's why
   they love you, Mike.  (Laughter.)  He knows how to tell the truth, he
   speaks plainly, and he's doing a heck of a good job for the people of
   Louisiana.  (Applause.)

   I want to thank Congressman David Vitter who's here
   today.  (Applause.)  I want to thank Congressman John Cooksy who is
   without us, as well.  Thank you both for coming.  (Applause.)

   And I want to thank you all for coming out to say hello.  It's a great
   way to end my trip throughout America's heartland.  I started yesterday
   in Moline, Illinois, at a factory that makes harvesting equipment for
   John Deere.  I told them I was coming down to New Orleans, and I said,
   I'm going to come to the place where much of the equipment you
   manufacture is shipped out when you sell overseas.

   And then I went to see some farmers in Missouri.  And I told them that
   I was coming down to New Orleans in Louisiana, which ships out a lot of
   the product that they grow.  The reason I'm here is because I want
   America to understand how our economy works.  We're worried about jobs
   in our country.  We want everybody who wants to find work to be able to
   have work.  Everybody who wants a job should be able to provide for
   their family.  I'm worried about the loss of jobs.

   Our economy is interconnected.  What happens in Moline, Illinois and in
   Missouri affects the people who work here in New Orleans, in the
   port.  And, therefore, good public policy recognizes that.  And good
   public policy asks the questions:  How do we make sure that what
   affects one affects the other in a positive way?  How do we make sure
   people can find jobs as we head into the year 2000?

   The best way to make sure that our economy recovers from the attack --
   I think one of the most important things I can do is to make sure that
   they don't hit us again.  (Applause.)  We suffered a lot on September
   the 11th, and one of the things that we suffered was the lack of
   confidence in the future.  But as every day goes by, the American
   people are getting more and more confident in our ability to protect
   ourselves and the ability for our government to respond in a positive
   way to make sure that families are safe in America.

   I fully understand the enemy still lurks out there and the enemy still
   would like to hit us.  But America has changed since September the
   11th.  We're now more alert.  We've got a Coast Guard that's now
   actively patrolling our coasts, trying to make sure nobody comes in to
   hurt us.  We've got an FBI -- major function now is to prevent further
   attack.  We've got better intelligence-sharing around the world to make
   sure that we find people before they come to our country.

   We're on full alert.  I'm so proud of the law enforcement officials all
   across America who are working endlessly -- (applause) -- who are
   working endlessly to make sure that we're safe.

   This is a strong country.  It's an alert country.  And it's a patient
   country when it comes to achieving the ultimate objective, which is
   keeping America safe by finding terrorists where they live and bringing
   them to justice.  (Applause.)

   And that's exactly what's happening in the first theater in the war
   against terror.  I have unleashed a mighty military, and the mighty
   military of America -- (applause) -- is making us proud.  (Applause.)

   For those of you who where our uniform, I want to thank you.  For those
   of you who have got families -- family members of those who wear the
   uniform -- (applause) -- I hope you're as proud of them as I am.

   We set a clear objective -- several clear objectives.  One of them was
   is that if you harbor a terrorist, if you hide a terrorist, if you feed
   a terrorist, you're guilty.  (Applause.)  That's the doctrine.  The
   objective was to make sure that the Taliban no longer harbored al
   Qaeda.  The Taliban no longer rules in Afghanistan.  (Applause.)  We
   met that objective.  And in so doing, we liberated a group of people
   that had been terrorized.  We liberated women and children.  I'm so
   proud of the United States military.  (Applause.)

   It brings me such joy -- such joy -- to know that not only are we
   pursuing the objective, and that is to bring the murderers to justice,
   but this great nation is liberating people and feeding people.  We're
   not only a tough nation, but we're a compassionate nation.  And the
   world has seen the greatness of America as we pursue our objective.

   We're making some progress against al Qaeda.  We're hunting them down,
   one man at a time.  (Applause.)  I just want to tell you that I'm
   patient and our military is patient; that I don't care how long it
   takes, I don't care where they hide, we're after
   them.  (Applause.)  And we're after them, and will remain after them
   until they're brought to justice.

   Oh, I know there are some who are saying, gosh, I wish this ended
   yesterday.  But that's not how this is going to work.  You see, we've
   got people who send youngsters to suicide missions and they,
   themselves, hide in caves.  Those are the kind of people we're dealing
   with.  But there's not going to be enough caves in the world to hide
   them.  (Applause.)

   Some may tire, some in our coalition may get tired of this effort, or
   some in our country may tire.  But I can assure you, I'm not.  Because
   I view this as a moment, a defining moment in history, a moment when we
   must defend freedom, a moment when we must defend civilization itself,
   a moment when this great nation -- in which this great nation must lead
   the world -- must lead the world -- to make sure our children and
   grandchildren can grow up in a peaceful and secure
   society.  (Applause.)

   In order to make sure people can find work, we better make sure we
   educate the people of our country.  I had the real privilege last week
   of traveling the country, touting a good education bill, a bill that is
   going to make sure every child gets educated and no children get left
   behind.

   One of the things that I really, really appreciate about Governor
   Foster is that he understands that we better hold people accountable in
   education; otherwise, some are going to get left behind.  I'm real
   proud of the education reforms that Mike Foster has put in
   place.  (Applause.)

   I believe strongly, every child in America can learn.  I believe
   that.  And I believe our public school systems can teach every child in
   America how to read and write and add and subtract.

   And I took that message up to Washington and worked with both
   Republicans and Democrats to get a good bill out that sets high
   standards; that says, if you take money, you need to show us whether or
   not children can read and write and add and subtract; a good bill that
   focuses on making sure every child is literate; a bill that helps
   teachers teach reading using a curriculum that works; and a bill that
   says the good folks of Louisiana can run their schools better than
   bureaucrats in Washington, D.C.  (Applause.)

   And one of my traveling mates was Ted Kennedy, the Senator from
   Massachusetts.  I've said good things about him.  (Laughter.)  He
   nearly fell out.  (Laughter.)  So did the boys at the Crawford Coffee
   Shop.  (Laughter.)  But I said it because he worked hard to get a good
   bill; he worked with a Republican administration to get a good piece of
   education reform.  We showed what can happen in Washington when you put
   your political parties aside and focus on what's best for the United
   States of America.  (Applause.)

   And that's what's got to happen on this issue of trade.  One of the
   reasons I'm traveling down the spine of America and on the mighty
   Mississippi is because I want to remind our fellow citizens how
   important trade is.  It's important to these workers that we
   trade.  The people who are loading these ships load them because we're
   trading around the world.  The farmers who are selling product can sell
   more if we trade.  And if the farmers sell more of their product, we
   can sell more of the machines made in Moline, Illinois, so the good
   folks up there, the UAW workers, can work.

   I'm worried about jobs.  And I believe if you trade more, there are
   more jobs available for hardworking Americans.  (Applause.)  There are
   some who play politics with the trade issue.  They want to shut down
   trade.  I like to remind people, those who shut down trade aren't
   confident.  They're not confident in the American worker; they're not
   confident in the American entrepreneur; they're not confident in
   American products.

   I'm just the opposite.  I know we've got the best workers in the world;
   I know we can make the best products in the world.  And therefore, we
   ought to have free and fair trade around the world.  (Applause.)  I'm
   not the only one that feels that way.  Some of the longshoremen that I
   met coming in said, we need trade so I can keep working.  I got a nice
   letter from your Mayor.  He said, you know, he's sorry he couldn't see
   me because he's on a trade mission to Mexico City.  However, I want you
   to know that I fully support your efforts to pass legislation giving
   your administration fast track authority to negotiate trade
   agreements.  (Applause.)

   This isn't a Republican issue, this isn't a Democrat issue.  Trade is a
   jobs issue.  And the United States Senate needs to hear the voices of
   the working people and get me a bill I can sign.  (Applause.)

   And you know what else the United States Senate needs to do?  They need
   to pass an energy bill.  (Applause.)  One of the great things about our
   agriculture sector is we grow enough food to feed America.  And,
   therefore, we're secure when it comes to food.  Gosh, I would hate to
   be the President of a country that has to import a lot of food.  It
   would mean you're beholden to somebody else's farmers to feed your
   people.

   We grow a lot of food.  We can feed our people.  We grow enough that we
   can put it on the ships here and send it around the world, and we ought
   to be feeding the world, as well.  But that's not the case for
   energy.  We receive a lot of our energy, over 50 percent of it, from
   other parts of the world.  Sometimes they like us, sometimes they
   don't.  (Laughter.)  And it's those times when they don't like us that
   makes me nervous as the President of the country.  (Laughter.)  It's in
   our national interest to have a national energy plan.  It's in
   Louisiana's interest to have a national energy plan; it's in America's
   interest to have a national energy plan.  (Applause.)

   A national energy plan will help us conserve more and produce more.  It
   will make us less reliant upon foreign sources of energy.  And it will
   help us create more jobs.  The people of Louisiana understand that
   energy equals jobs.  So do a lot of other people in America.  This bill
   is bottled up in the United States Senate.  It's about time they
   focused on creating jobs in America and get me a trade bill and an
   energy bill for the good of the American people.  (Applause.)

   The good news is, I think we've got a United States Senator -- I know
   we've got one from Louisiana -- who understands that -- John Breaux
   understands.  (Applause.)  He understands jobs.  And I appreciated him
   supporting me on the tax cut.

   And that's another good piece of legislation that passed out of
   Washington, and it came just at the right time, just at the right
   time.  You see, our economy started slowing down significantly in March
   of 2001.  And when the economy begins to slow down, one of the best
   remedies is to let people keep more of their own money; is to take less
   of the money from the working people.  (Applause.)

   When a longshoreman is able to keep more of his own money,  his family
   has more money to spend.  And as they spend that money, somebody
   obviously has to produce the product for them to buy.  And as they
   produce the product, it creates jobs.  And in order to stimulate the
   economy, one of the good ways to do so is to have tax relief.  We
   passed meaningful, real tax relief that says finally our government
   trusts people with more of their own money so that people can make the
   right decisions for their families.

   You know, there are some in Washington, however, who seem to be
   indicating that in order to come out of a recession, you should raise
   taxes.

   AUDIENCE:  Noooo!

   THE PRESIDENT:  I don't know what economic textbook they've been
   reading -- (laughter) -- but it's not the one that most Americans have
   read.  They understand tax relief is the best way to encourage an
   economic recovery in America.  (Applause.)

   Now, we can help, and should help, those workers who lost their jobs as
   a result of the September the 11th tax.  We should work together to
   extend unemployment -- insurance employment benefits.  We ought to help
   pay for health care for workers that have been laid off; that's
   something we ought to do.  But most Americans don't want an
   unemployment check, they want a paycheck.  And we ought to figure out
   ways to increase jobs.

   An energy plan will help create jobs, a trade bill will create
   jobs.  And we need a stimulus plan that says, let's be smart, let's
   encourage entrepreneurs and people who buy equipment, and let's
   accelerate the tax relief so that this economy will grow, so that
   people who want to work can find work. There is no reason why we can't
   work together to get a good bill done for the American
   people.  (Applause.)

   I like my job a lot.  It's a huge honor to live in the White
   House.  And I want to report that Laura is doing a fabulous job.  What
   a great, great First Lady.  (Applause.)  She's happy, and that's really
   important.  (Laughter.)  And it's an honor to represent you in
   Washington.  But I really enjoy traveling our country, as well.  I like
   to get out.  I like to move around, because it is, one, it reminds me
   of the true strength of America.

   And the true strength of our country is not in our capital. We've got a
   great system; no question about it.  We've got a fantastic
   Constitution.  But the true strength of America really are the American
   people -- is the American people.  That's the true strength.  The true
   strength is the American citizens, people of good heart.  (Applause.)

   The enemy didn't understand our country.  You know, they thought we
   were so materialistic that we were soft.  They thought we cared more
   about ourselves than we cared about something greater than
   ourselves.  But they were wrong.  They didn't understand the character
   of America.  They don't know how tough we can be -- they didn't realize
   how tough we could be if we decided to be tough.  They thought we would
   be impatient, and they're wrong.  They thought we'd get tired
   early.  They don't understand us.

   A lot of people say, well, what can I do to help fight the war on
   terror.  Well, one, be alert.  If you see something happening that's
   unusual, report to the local law enforcement.  Let them know.  But the
   other thing is, is that in order to fight evil, I think one way you do
   it is to fight it with good, acts of kindness and decency.  In order to
   fight the evil ones and not let their way of life stand, one thing
   Americans can do is to love a neighbor.  (Applause.)

   I want to not only unleash our military and the might of our military,
   I also want to help unleash the compassion of the American people.  A
   soldier in the war on terror is somebody who mentors a child.  Or
   somebody who walks across the street to a shut-in neighbor and says,
   how can I brighten your day, what can I do to love you?

   A soldier in the war on terror is a mom or a dad who surrounds -- who
   hugs their children on a daily basis and says to the child, I love you
   more than anything in life.  Somebody who wants to fight evil with
   goodness is somebody who wants to get involved in their school system
   and praises the teacher, or helps the education.  Somebody who goes to
   a church or a synagogue or mosques and says, how can we form a
   faith-based program to help change people's lives by changing their
   hearts?

   The enemy has awakened a mighty nation.  They made us angry, but
   they've also made us hopeful -- because we fully understand the true
   strength of our country lies in the hearts and souls of a wonderful,
   fantastic group of people.

   It is my honor to be your President.  It's my honor to be here in New
   Orleans.  May God bless you all, and may God bless America.  Thank you
   very much.  (Applause.)  Thank you all.

   END 9:44 A.M. CST

   Printer-Friendly Version

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.

   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
