http://deepimpact.jpl.nasa.gov/privacy.html

   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1
   DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet home search sitemap frequently
   asked questions contact us DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 Privacy Statement

   contents:
   MISSION: See how the mission works and meet the team
   SCIENCE: All about comets, mission science objectives and more
   TECHNOLOGY: About the spacecraft, systems and launch vehicle
   GALLERY: Images, videos and more
   EDUCATION: Standards based activities and opportunities
   DISCOVERY ZONE: Fun for you and your community
   PRESS: News and resources
   [navbar-l1-fade.jpg]

   Welcome to the Deep Impact website. Our goal is to inform, inspire, and
   involve children in the excitement of science, technology, and space
   exploration. While we develop and encourage interactivity in learning,
   we strive to ensure the online safety and privacy of our users. Deep
   Impact is committed to complying fully with the Children's Online
   Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (COPPA). Notice of our information
   practices are explained below as required by the Federal Trade
   Commission's Children's Online Privacy Protection Regulations, located
   at 16 CFR § 312.

   (i) Contact Information (16 CFR § 312.4) "Operators"

   Maura Rountree-Brown is the responsible NASA official hosting this
   activity. She is also the lead content author.
   David Martin is the lead web developer for this site.

   mnkbrown@earthlink.net
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory
   (Maura's Section)
   (Maura's Mailing Address)
   (818) 952-7135

   dwmartin@sdsio.jpl.nasa.gov
   Raytheon ITSS
   Dynamic Media
   299 N. Euclid Ave, Suite 500
   Pasadena, CA 91101
   (626) 918-5957

   (ii) Information Collected (16 CFR § 312.4)

   A. General Collection Information

   As with all internet web sites, Deep Impact may collect some
   information indirectly from all users visiting our web site. What is
   collected and how it is used is explained below.

   System Logging. Our web server and e-mail systems keep log files about
   network transactions. NASA policy is to destroy these logs after they
   are 30 days old. We do analyze our web log files to calculate
   statistics on which pages are visited and how long visitors stay on our
   site. We do not track individuals with this information. We are
   required to retain this information for the security of our website and
   online service. E-mail addresses of messages sent from our system are
   logged as well. These logs are not viewed unless necessary for security
   reasons and are deleted after 30 days (16 CFR § 312.5(c)(5)(i)).

   Internet Addresses. Deep Impact gathers Internet Protocol Address (IP
   Addresses) and pages viewed as part of the logging system within our
   web server. When calculating statistics on visits and pages viewed IP
   addresses are used in broad calculations. IP addresses are never used
   to identify someone personally unless a security breach requires such
   an investigation (16 CFR § 312.5(c)(5)(i)).

   Use of Cookies. Deep Impact may use session cookies for visitors to our
   site. A session cookie is a temporary file stored in a web browser that
   is deleted when it either expires or the browser is closed. No privacy
   or personal information is stored in a cookie from this web site. We
   may store a temporary number which helps us understand traffic patterns
   or helps us control access to restricted pages. Some features of Deep
   Impact may not function properly without session cookies being enabled.
   The Office of Management and Budget currently does not permit
   government web sites to store any permanent cookies on your system
   without explicit permission to do so.

   B. "Please Introduce Yourself" Information Collected

   Occasionally Deep Impact features an online questionnaire to help us
   evaluate how well we are serving our audience. The questionnaire asks
   for an e-mail address, which is stored in a subscription list. We use
   this list to send e-mail messages about what is new and fun on Deep
   Impact. No other personal information is collected.

   Occupation is collected to help analyze our audience.
   Age is collected to help determine how well we are reaching our target
   audience.
   City, state, and country information is collected to help determine how
   well we are reaching our target audience.
   Frequency of access information is collected to help analyze how
   effectively we are reaching our target audience.
   Access venue (e.g., school, home, library) is collected to help us
   analyze our audience and plan the design of future Deep Impact
   activities.
   Favorite activities is collected to help plan future Deep Impact
   activities.
   The e-mail address is collected for us to send messages about new
   activities or fun facts on Deep Impact.
   We do not disclose this information to third parties.

   (iii) How information collected is used (16 CFR § 312.4)

   For brevity, the use of the collected information is described in the
   above section on explaining what is collected.

   (iv) Third Party Disclosure (16 CFR § 312.4)

   Deep Impact does not disclose information to third parties.

   (v) Participation16 CFR § 312.4)

   Deep Impact does not prohibit the participation in any activity based
   on requiring more personal information than is necessary.

   (vi) Review or Deletion of Privacy Data (16 CFR § 312.4)

   Deep Impact collects no data associated with any individual child,
   aside from e-mail address. Upon request, the child's e-mail address is
   deleted from our e-mail subscription list.

   Links to External Sites

   Deep Impact tries to provide a safe, fun, and private environment for
   kids to learn about space science and technology. We link to no sites
   other than our own partners (NASA, JPL, UMD, SSE, Ball Aerospace &
   Technologies Corporation, Discovery Program) and to sites which have
   given us web awards for our educational merit. We are not responsible
   for the content or collection practices of these sites and recommend
   you read their privacy policies before providing them information.

   Additional Information

   Also read NASA's Privacy Statement for Web Sites
   [bottom-bar.gif]
                        NASA Office of Space Science
   Web Curator: Maura Rountree-Brown
   Webmaster: David Martin
   Last Updated: 01-Nov-2001
   Questions? Contact Maura Rountree-Brown.
