http://history.nasa.gov/program.html

   NASA Insignia - jump to NASA's home page

   CAPTION:

   NASA - jump to NASA's home page History Office
   Office of External Relations
   about NASA's history office
   home
   what's new
   brief history
   major submects
   site index
   search engine
   site map
   about NASA's history office
   other links
   contacting us

   The NASA History Program was first established in 1959 (a year after
   NASA itself was formed) and has continued to document and preserve the
   agency’s remarkable history through a variety of products. Many people
   are familiar with our publications, as we publish a number of new books
   on aerospace history every year, as well as several monographs. We also
   put a number of our publications on-line, especially out of print
   books, in addition to a variety of other special Web exhibits and
   information sources. We also publish a quarterly newsletter and an
   annual round-up of our activities. To get an electronic copy of our
   newsletter and to find out about these new products and events relating
   to NASA history, we recommend subscribing to our history listserv. To
   find out more about what materials we have, you might also check out
   Research in NASA History (a large pdf file). We also sponsor
   internships for undergraduate students.

   The NASA History Office serves two key functions: fulfilling the
   mandate of the 1958 "Space Act" calling for NASA to disseminate
   aerospace information as widely as possible, and helping NASA managers
   understand and thus benefit from the study of past accomplishment and
   difficulties. Thus, in addition to serving internal NASA customers, the
   NASA History Program is of great interest to a wide panoply of outside
   citizens who follow aerospace activities such as scholars, journalists,
   and students. While most of the NASA History Office products are
   scholarly in nature, they are also largely accessible to interested
   broader audiences. Thank you for your interest in NASA history—we hope
   you find what you desire and find the topic as exciting as we do.
   Internal NASA History Program Guides

   An Editorial Checklist
   A Brief Citation Guide for Internet Sources in History and the
   Humanities
   NASA History Editorial Style Guide
   Oral History Interview Use Restrictions Form
   A Note to Readers of NASA Historical Manuscripts
   Revising Historical Manuscripts for Publication

                                    Roger D. Launius, NASA Chief Historian
   Steve Garber, NASA History Web Curator
   Site design by NASA HQ Printing & Design
   For further information email histinfo@hq.nasa.gov
   privacy statement
   Updated August 10, 2001
