http://fnpcc.fnal.gov/fps.php

   Header


   FPS HomePage
   Graphs and statistics for FPS resources
      Graphs and statistics for FPS resources.

   Currently processing datasets and filesets
      Currently processing datasets and filesets.

   Documentation of FPS and guides for shifters
      Documentation of FPS and guides for shifters

   Tables for files already processed
      Files already processed.

   Visualisation of rates
      Visualisation of rates.

   Current status of stages in FPS
      Current status of stages in FPS

   Messenger status
      Messenger logs

   E-log information
      Farm e-log information.

   Nodes status
      Nodes performance statistics.

   Event display
      Real-time randomly selected events.

   Java Farms Processing Interface CI
      Java Farms Processing System Control and Monitoring Interface.


      30 Jan 2002 Wed 11:26:55

   CDF Run II Farms.

      The high energy physics experiment CDF, located in the anti-proton
      proton collider at Fermilab, will write data in Run 2 at a rate of 20
      MByte/s, twenty times the rate of Run 1. The online production system
      must be able to handle this rate. Components of that system include a
      large PC farm, I/O systems to read/write data to and from mass
      storage,and a system to split the reconstructed data into physics
      streams which are required for analysis. All of the components must
      work together seamlessly to ensure the necessary throughput. A
      description will be given of the overall hardware and software design
      for the system. A small prototype farm has been used for about one and
      a half year to study performance, to test software designs for several
      times, in the Commissioning run in Oct, 2000, for the last time. The
      hardware for production farm is in place and will be used for the
      Highrise at night! data taking in Run II. The CDF detector will take
      enormous amounts of data in Collider Run 2, which will begin in 2001
   and will continue for 5 or more years.

Today's CPU use by CDF II Farms.

   The graphs are showing load average and percentage of CPU for today
   (average by 2 hours).

   This is daily graph for load average.

   This is daily graph for cpu use in %.

   This is FPS Homepage Live! . Please, use Netscape 4 or higher to view
   the pages .Any comments or suggestions mail to babik@fnal.gov. All the
   pages represent dynamic content ! If you want to refresh the page hold
   shift and click on reload. Enjoy!
