http://www.governor.texas.gov/proclamations/Proc09242001a.htm

   News and Information


   Press Releases
   Speeches
   Veto Proclamations
   Recent Appointments
   Official Photos
   Contact Information
   The Office
   Return to Home

   [bullet.png] Back to Proclamation Main Page

                              [state_seal.gif]
                               STATE OF TEXAS

                           OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR

   The Governor's Committee on People with Disabilities estimates that 4
   million Texans with disabilities contribute immeasurably in all facets
   of our society, ranging from the economy to education and the arts.
   Individuals with disabilities also have much to contribute in the
   workplace and are a tremendous resource that is often untapped.

   Recognizing the importance of ensuring that the doors of opportunity
   and the achievement of the American dream be open to all in our great
   state, the Texas Legislature passed legislation, which I signed, to
   further employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities.
   Senate Bill 63, which will become effective in January, 2002, will
   allow businesses to obtain a tax credit for hiring certain people with
   disabilities. Senate Bill 831 provides for a pilot project for
   employees with disabilities to maintain Medicaid coverage and continue
   working.

   As part of an awareness campaign that promotes the importance of
   employing Texans with disabilities, the Governor's Committee on People
   with Disabilities produced a poster highlighting the artistic
   accomplishments of a Texan with mental illness. This effort
   demonstrates potential, given the opportunity. Building upon this
   effort, a month-long initiative in October will focus on promoting
   employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities.

   At this time, therefore, I urge all Texans to recognize the need for
   individuals with disabilities to access independent lifestyle
   opportunities; opportunities that for most begin with employment. I
   urge all Texans to participate in this effort. Let us recognize the
   enormous benefits and contributions that people with disabilities bring
   to our workforce and to the Lone Star State.

   Therefore, I, Rick Perry, Governor of Texas, do hereby proclaim October
   2001,

   Disability Employment Awareness Month

   in Texas, and urge the appropriate
   recognition whereof.

   In official recognition whereof,
   I hereby affix my signature this the
   24th day of September, 2001.

   Rick Perry (signature


   Get Acrobat bar State of Texas bar Texas On Line bar Access Adobe bar
   Privacy Policy bar Best viewed with Internet Explorer or Netscape 4.+
   or above. ©Office of the Governor [spacer.png] The images on the web
   site are copyrighted and may not be downloaded.
