http://t8web.lanl.gov/genres.html

                             T-8: Group Research

  General Information

   T-8 has a vigorous and wide-ranging research program. Various group
   activities are described below.

   Under Construction!

          Lattice QCD: The goals of this project are to study the
          spectroscopy of hadrons made up of light-light, heavy-light, and
          heavy-heavy quarks; study the spectroscopy of glueballs and
          exotic hadrons; provide estimates of up, down, strange, charm,
          and bottom quark masses; calculate the strong coupling constant;
          calculate the decay constants for light and heavy-light mesons;
          calculate the form factors for the semi-leptonic decays of B and
          D meson; calculate the form factor for the radiative decay of B
          to K* gamma; calculate the matrix elements of the four fermion
          operators needed to study CP violation; investigate the
          properties of QCD at finite temperature; and develop better
          algorithms and improve the lattice methodology. This project is
          supported in part by a DOE Grand Challenge award. (T.
          Bhattacharya, S. Chandrasekharan, R. Gupta, W. Lee) More info
          Nonequilibrium Field Theory: Traditional applications of quantum
          field theory are restricted mainly to scattering processes and
          systems in thermal equilibrium. Nonequilibrium quantum field
          theory is necessary to understand initial value problems such as
          arise in the dynamics of the early universe, heavy-ion
          collisions, and the dynamics of phase transitions in general.
          Recent advances made by the Los Alamos group include the
          successful implementation of the 1/N approximation in
          nonequilibrium theory (including the solution of the
          renormalization problem in this situation), understanding of
          effective dissipation in mean field theory, and application of
          the new methods to disoriented chiral condensates and to the
          dynamics of second order phase transitions. (F. Cooper, S.
          Habib, C. Molina-Paris, E. Mottola) More info
          Duality/Strings/Etc: Blurb from Mattis/Ginsparg goes here. (P.
          Ginsparg, M. P. Mattis)
          Scaling in Biology: Blurb from West goes here. (G. B. West)
          Computational Accelerator Physics: High-current accelerators are
          needed for accelerator-driven technologies such as transmutation
          of radioactive waste, disposal of plutonium, energy production,
          and production of tritium. Next-generation spallation neutron
          sources based on similar technology will play a major role in
          materials science and biological research. Additionally, other
          types of accelerators such as linear colliders (e.g., the Next
          Linear Collider (NLC)) and linac-driven coherent light sources
          will have a significant impact on basic and applied scientific
          research. All these projects require high-resolution modeling
          far beyond that which has ever been performed by the accelerator
          community to reduce cost and technological risk, and to improve
          accelerator efficiency, performance, and reliability. Advanced
          modeling of accelerators is a collaborative project with LANSCE
          Division (Robert Ryne, LANSCE-1) and is supported in part by a
          DOE Grand Challenge award. (S. Habib) More info
          Cosmology: Blurb from cosmic characters goes here. (S. Habib, G.
          Jungman, C. Molina-Paris, E. Mottola)
          Conformal Gravity: Blurb from Mottola goes here. (E. Mottola)
          Quantum Mechanics: Blurb from Bhattacharya/Habib/Nieto goes
          here. (T. Bhattacharya, S. Habib, M. M. Nieto)
          Nonlinear Coherent Structures: Blurb from NCS guys goes here.
          (F. Cooper, S. Habib, M. P. Mattis, E. Mottola)
          Astrophysics: Blurb from Habib/Jungman goes here. (S. Habib, G.
          Jungman)
          Anything Else?: Blurb from Dr. Who goes here. (Whoever)

   Back to T-8 home page.


    Salman Habib / LANL / habib@lanl.gov / revised January 98

   Valid HTML 4.0!

   Disclaimer
