http://www1.etl.noaa.gov/radiom/peacewing/index.html

   The Peacewing Prototype Project


   A Vectored Earth Observing System (VEOS) for the New Millennium



   The demonstration of a “Vectored” Earth Observing System (VEOS) for
   severe weather forecasting, disaster management, and environmental
   monitoring is being studied by an interagency team lead by the National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminstration’s Environmental Technology
   Laboratory (ETL). The Peacewing Prototype Project (PPP) will
   demonstrate the unique capabilities of an uninhabited aerial vehicle
   (UAV) using passive microwave and hyperspectral optical imagers to
   provide targeted high-resolution maps of developing weather along with
   post-event assessment of ecosystem change and infrastructural damage
   caused by severe environmental events. The PPP is designed as a
   precursor effort leading to an operational version of the Peacewing UAV
   - as modeled upon the vision proposed by the U.S. State Department for
   the Global Disaster Information Network (GDIN). The Peacewing platform
   will ultimately be capable of providing spatio-temporal sampling both
   greatly exceeding and complimentary to that available from satellites,
   and at a fraction of the infrastructural, operating, and human-risk
   costs.


   The prototype project will use AeroVironment’s Pathfinder Plus (PF+)
   UAV in a major field experiment to study aerosol, cloud, and rain
   relationships, ocean wind vector imaging, coral and crop change
   assessment, and land surface wetness. As part of the project, very high
   resolution optical imagery will be collected over time-sensitive ground
   targets selected by disaster managers, thus emulating near-real-time
   observational capabilities in support of rescue exercises. The
   instruments to be flown include NOAA/ETL’s Airborne CMIS Emulator (ACE)
   and Advanced Power Technology, Incorporated’s (APTI) Aurora 6000
   hyperspectral imaging system.


   The field phase of the project will be focused on three scientific
   experiments. The aerosol, cloud, and rain experiment study will focus
   on the determination of the effects of natural aerosols on the
   inhibition of orographically-induced rainfall. The regional-scale
   numerical weather prediction (NWP) experiment will focus on the
   predictability of precipitation using sub-mesoscale surface wind data,
   moisture, temperature, and cloud liquid data. The coral, crop, and land
   wetness experiment will focus on the spectral changes associated with
   vegetation and environmental stress and on the estimation of standing
   water and infrastructural damage.


   Successful demonstration of Peacewing on Pathfinder+ will provide the
   basis for the development of a permanent VEOS based on, e.g.,
   Helios-class UAVs, providing extreme endurance, all-weather operation,
   and broad societal application in the 2007-2010 time frame. A briefing
   describing the potential for using UAVs for operational targeted
   weather observations, disaster management, and ecosystem monitoring was
   presented to the NOAA North American Observing Systems (NAOS) council
   on September 7, 2000 (download briefing).


   Support for the risk-reduction phase of the PPP is being provided by
   NASA under its UAV-based science demonstration program.
   Co-investigators on the PPP include personnel from the following
   agencies, institutions, and companies:


   NOAA Research/Environmental Technology Laboratory

   NOAA National Ocean Service

   NOAA/NESDIS National Geophysical Data Center

   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center

   U.S. State Department

   Aerovironment, Inc.

   Advanced Power Technologies, Inc.

   University of Colorado/CIRES

   University of Oklahoma

   Pacific Missile Range Facility


   The risk reduction phase of the PPP project will be ongoing through the
   end of calendar year 2000. Further information on the project can be
   obtained through the principal investigator, Dr. Al Gasiewski,  at
   al.gasiewski@noaa.gov or (303) 497-7275.


   Last updated: September 13, 2000.
