http://imagine.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/features/bios/stahle/stahle.html

   Skip navigation links and jump to content.

     Imagine the Universe - a glimpse into the mysteries of our universe
                            Home Button NASA logo
         created by LHEA/HEASARC at NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center
           Submit Search Science [USEMAP:imaginenav_buttons1.jpg]
                       ______________________________
                              enter search text

                           Profile: Dr. Caroline Stahle


   Dr. Caroline Stahle


   Caroline Stahle's Featured Image
             * What is this image?

                                     Biography

         Dr. Caroline Stahle has always enjoyed solving puzzles. Now, as a
       member of NASA's Laboratory for High Energy Astrophysics, she builds
       very small devices which help us study some of the largest things in
                                   the Universe.

       Caroline was born in Trenton, New Jersey, and grew up in the Trenton
      suburbs. Early on, she says, "I discovered I enjoyed solving puzzles of
        all kinds. Geometrical puzzles, logic problems, brain teasers, word
      problems, you name it!" But she didn't associate this with science or a
         career until she took a special class that changed her thinking.

       "My freshman year in high school, I was enrolled in a course that was
      an introduction to chemistry and physics," Caroline explains. "As part
        of that course, the students were introduced to scientific inquiry
       through two projects. In one, we were shown a cardboard box with rods
      sticking though it. There were objects on the rods inside the box, and
      we were asked to think of ways to determine the number and kinds of the
       objects without opening the box. Secondly, we were given five common
        substances (like baking soda, salt, corn starch) and taught certain
      analytical experiments, ... [which we used] to identify the substances.
       That's when science as an activity really caught my attention. I had
      certainly been interested in scientific topics before that point; I was
      an avid reader on all sorts of subjects. But that's when it really hit
      me that scientific inquiry was just like the puzzles I loved to solve."


     group tour of Princeton campus
   Take a Virtual Tour of Princeton

      That love of science and puzzles took Caroline all the way to Princeton
         University, where she attended college after graduating from high
      school. Even though Princeton was only twenty miles from home, "I lived
          on campus the whole time." While at Princeton, Caroline became
      fascinated with electronic devices, but found that studying electronics
      alone did not excite her. With a "gut need" to study "pure" science as
      well as its application to electronics, Caroline emerged from Princeton
       after four years with a Bachelor of Science in Engineering degree in
         the field of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, plus a
                        certificate in Engineering Physics.

       When still an undergraduate at Princeton, Caroline spent a fantastic
      summer working at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in Menlo Park,
       California. The experience cemented her love of physics. She went to
      graduate school at Stanford University upon graduation from Princeton,
      enrolling in the Materials Science and Engineering department. Working
       closely with the Physics and Applied Physics departments at Stanford,
       Caroline studied the structure and properties of different materials,
        and how physics and chemistry could be used to create entirely new
                              materials and devices.

      In graduate school, Caroline worked with researchers from a variety of
        institutions, including Goddard Space Flight Center, on an advanced
      x-ray detector, the microcalorimeter. When she graduated from Stanford
       with her PhD, the Goddard group asked her to come work with them, and
       she's been at NASA ever since. Caroline became a permanent member of
                 the X-ray Astrophysics Branch at Goddard in 1995.

                                Research Interests

        You might think everyone at NASA studies planets, black holes, and
       things in outer space, but that's not true. In addition to the people
         studying outer space, there are scientists like Caroline who help
         create new instruments that enable astronomers to see better and
                             farther than ever before.

           Caroline now works with the Goddard team which is developing
        calorimeters. She is working on the next generation of thermometer
       devices beyond those she worked on for her thesis. These devices will
      operate faster and give the calorimeter better spectral resolution. Her
      team is also working to make them practical for a satellite instrument.

                  * Tell me how the X-ray Microcalorimeter works!

       Caroline's job title is "Astrophysicist", which she says is "Not bad
       for someone who's never taken an astronomy course!" Indeed, she says
      she didn't become interested in astronomy until coming to Goddard. She
      says this was because "I couldn't do experiments with the stars, and I
       had a definite bias towards experimental science. But, observational
      science also presents interesting puzzles ... It wasn't until I was at
         Goddard that I was presented with both the compelling puzzles of
                  astronomy and the techniques for solving them."

      So now, in addition to developing new x-ray detectors, Caroline is also
      interested in topics involving the recycling of matter in the universe:
        starburst galaxies, supernovae and their remnants, the filamentary
      arrangement of matter in the Universe, and the location of the missing
       baryons. She hopes to make contributions to astrophysics both through
        developing better instruments and through her insight in analyzing
                                astrophysical data.

                           A "Typical" Day at the Office

        When asked what she does in a typical work day, Caroline responds,
       "There is no typical day, thank goodness!" One of the things Caroline
                    enjoys most about her job is it's variety.

        "I spend time in the lab setting up experiments and taking data. I
       spend time at my computer analyzing data. I spend time in meetings to
       catch up with what other people are doing on the various teams I work
        on and to exchange ideas." And, of course, Caroline participates in
      everyone's popular idea of science: "I have animated scientific debates
               with colleagues in front of the hallway blackboard."

         A scientist does a lot more than just run experiments or discuss
         results with colleagues, however. "I write papers on my results,"
           Caroline says, "or go to conferences," where papers and other
       scientific discoveries are presented. Good scientists are also always
          on the lookout for new facts that can help with their research.
      "Sometimes I search for information in online in journals, and I try to
                keep up with the progress made in related fields."

       As with any job, some of the work is exciting and some is less so. "A
      certain amount of time is spent on budgets, procurements, and reports,"
         Caroline admits. Still, she's happy that the majority of her time
      continues to be spent solving interesting puzzles, something Caroline's
                             loved doing all her life.

                                  Other Interests


                          Caroline and husband Carl Biking
   Caroline (right) and her husband Carl on a bike outing.

      When not at work, Caroline keeps busy with a variety of activities. She
      likes to hike and do aerobics, and she and her husband, Carl, are both
                                 avid bicyclists.

       Caroline's work with the Japanese Astro-E mission has allowed her to
        indulge two more interests: her love of travel and desire to learn
        other languages. She's been to Japan, and is learning Japanese. Her
      scientific work has also led her to meetings and conferences around the
      world. And when she's not traveling? "I keep in touch with friends, and
                       spend time with friends and family."

                               Questions and Answers

       Q: If time travel were possible, when and where would you visit, and
                                       why?

      A: I'd travel ahead in time a few intervals (say, 50 years 100, 200...)
           to see what we've been able to discover and understand in the
       intervening time. But I'd only want to do that at the end of my life.
      It would take the fun out of the quest to get the answers without going
        through the process! Oh, and I would like to travel ahead to a time
      when politicians and other leaders of society are just as likely to be
         women as men. Actually, I hope I'll live long enough to see that
                          without the aid of time travel!

      Q: As a scientist, you must be in contact with people from all over the
         world. What is the most unusual question or comment you have ever
                                      gotten?

      A: The most unusual question I've gotten I received close to home, at a
          neighborhood party. A neighbor wanted to know if the x-rays my
       detectors would measure from cosmic sources could be collected to be
       used in medical imaging. It was a unique view of x-rays, but in fact
       they don't remain x-rays after they are absorbed. And x-rays are easy
                            to generate on the ground.

                 Q: If you weren't a scientist, what would you be?

        A: I'd probably be either a translator, a writer, or a politician.
       Years ago, a career counseling firm contacted me to help them update
      their career profiles. They had a questionnaire that they had given to
        people in various careers to determine how the average, say, doctor
           would answer the questions. Then, when someone seeking career
       counseling would take the test, they could find what profession that
       person's answers best matched. So, I took the test, and they sent me
      the result based on the old profiles -- they determined I had a lot in
      common with the typical lawyer. Hey! Back then, someone with analytical
       skills and good verbal skills would be counseled to be a lawyer, but
       someone with the analytical bent but not the verbal inclination would
         be directed toward science. Well, now the profiles have changed.

        Q: If you could invite three people from throughout history to your
                  house for dinner, who would you invite and why?

       A: That's a tough one! How about: Lise Meitner, Richard Feynman, and
       Susan B. Anthony. The scientific discussion with Meitner and Feynman
       would be thrilling. I'd enjoy hearing Meitner's tale of the discovery
        of fission, and how she dealt with the prejudices against women and
         Jews that were the norm in her time and place. And I wonder what
       Anthony would think of the progress of women's influence in politics
        since winning the right for women to vote? Would she be pleased? Or
       appalled at how most of our governing bodies are still predominantly
                                       male?

                 Q: Do you have a family? A dog? A fish? A camel?

       A: I am married to Carl, whom I met in graduate school. Carl works at
        Goddard as an engineer. We have two cats, named Apollo and Artemis.


                                      Caroline's cat, Apollo

   Caroline's cat Apollo (or is it Artemis ?)

       In Greek mythology, Apollo and Artemis (sun god and moon goddess) are
          twins, and my cats are from the same litter. They are Tonkinese
       purebreds, a breed created generations ago by mixing the Siamese and
        the Burmese, but now a recognized breed itself. They are known for
          their "minking", which is a more subtle version of the Siamese
      "pointing": the ears, feet, and tail are slightly darker in color than
      the body. Apollo is a "platinum mink" (pearly off-white) and Artemis is
           a "blue mink" (grey). The best thing about a Tonkinese is the
         personality. They are very lively and affectionate cats, and very
       smart. Sometimes we think Apollo is really a puppy. He likes to fetch
       his toy mouse when we throw it, and he will bring it to our feet when
       he wants to play. He meows for hugs, and will leap into my or Carl's
                                       arms.

      Q: What is the one big dream you have, or the one thing that you would
                     like to accomplish during your lifetime?

       A: Those questions really threw me. I am just not that single-minded!
         There are many things I want to understand! Many things I want to
       accomplish! My goal is that I never give up trying to understand! And
       that I maintain the flexibility to run off after new questions that I
                          don't even know how to ask yet.


   * Click here to return to the featured scientists page

          Home   Imagine Science  Exhibit Central Satellites and Data
       Dictionary
       Resources Teacher's Corner    Feedback
                       Ask a High Energy Astronomer

                  Show me a printable version of this page.

      Imagine the Universe is a service of the High Energy Astrophysics
        Science Archive Research Center (HEASARC), Dr. Nicholas White
      (Director), within the Laboratory for High Energy Astrophysics at
                     NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

                              The Imagine Team
                       Project Leader: Dr. Jim Lochner
                         Curator:Meredith Bene Ihnat
                    Responsible NASA Official:Eunice Eng

                          NASA's privacy statement

   Do you have a question, problem or comment about this web site? Please
                                let us know.

    External links contain material that we found to be relevant. However
    they're not maintained by us and the content may have changed. If you
   find any external links that contain inappropriate material, please let
                                  us know!
