http://www.volpe.dot.gov/about/index.html

                  About the Volpe Center Volpe Center Home

              Home | Advanced Search | Directory | Site Map | Contact Us |
   Privacy/Disclaimer | Accessibility
   About   Our Work   Career Opportunities   Working With Us   Information
   Resources   Outreach


   MISSION

   WHY WE'RE UNIQUE

   DIRECTOR'S WELCOME

   LEADERSHIP AND
   OUR TEAM

   HISTORY AND
   JOHN A. VOLPE

   VISITING VOLPE

    __________
   submit search


   About Volpe collage

Welcome to the Volpe Center

   The John A. Volpe National Transportation Systems Center in Cambridge,
   Massachusetts, is an internationally recognized center of
   transportation and logistics expertise. Through research and
   development, engineering, and analysis, the Volpe Center helps
   decision-makers define problems and pursue solutions to lead
   transportation into the 21st century. In essence, the Volpe Center is a
   catalyst for innovation-a source of critical insight necessary to
   realize transportation's promising future

   Our work includes a broad mix of projects that cut across traditional
   transportation modes and technical disciplines. (To review some of our
   most notable accomplishments in air, rail, highway, water, and space,
   see the Volpe Center Hall of Fame.) We are well known internationally
   for our transportation expertise, and our highly skilled staff of
   experts is respected for their comprehensive knowledge and
   understanding of the transportation system. The Center has also
   successfully implemented several major programs such as the Federal
   Aviation Administration's Enhanced Traffic Management System (ETMS) and
   Safety Performance Analysis System (SPAS), and the Federal Motor
   Carrier Safety Administration's SafeStat Online.

   The Center assists federal, state, and local governments, industry, and
   academia in a number of areas, including human factors research, system
   design, implementation, and assessment, global tracking, strategic
   investment and resource allocation, environmental preservation, and
   organizational effectiveness. In these and other areas, the Center
   provides its customers with valued policy support and strategic
   planning and analysis.

   The Volpe Center is part of the U.S. Department of Transportation's
   Research and Special Programs Administration. However, we differ from
   most federal organizations in that we receive no direct appropriation
   from Congress. Instead, we are funded 100% through a fee-for-service
   structure in which all of our costs are covered by sponsored project
   work. Our entrepreneurial, market-driven organization supports
   approximately $200 million annually in project work

   The Volpe Center is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts - across the
   Charles River from Boston, across the street from the Massachusetts
   Institute of Technology (MIT), and two subway stops from Harvard
   University. This dynamic atmosphere of intellectual excitement and
   professional ingenuity enriches our staff and infuses our work.

   Visit the links on this page for more detailed information about the
   Volpe Center (such as our history and our formal mission statement). If
   you cannot find what you're looking for, please don't hesitate to
   contact us.

                                Return to Top


     US DOT triscallion U.S. Department of Transportation

                              Research and Special Programs Administration
