http://www.usaid.gov/odw/explain.html

                            Operation Day's Work
                               Navigation Bar



   About ODW
      Skip navigation links
      What Is ODW?
      How ODW Works
      Projects We Fund
      Join ODW: How & Why
      2001-02 Calendar & Requirements
      ODW Member Schools
      ODW Sponsors
      Privacy and Security Statement

   ODW Member
   Services
      Contact Us
      ODW News
      ODW Forum
      ODW Student Government
      International Day & Curriculum
      Your Work Day
      Resources For Success
      Project Country Info
      Collected Works & Photo Gallery
      ODW Alumni
      2001-2002 Country Nominations
      2001-2002 Chosen Country


   What Is Operation Day's Work?

   Operation Day's Work - USA (ODW) is a national organization that is run
   by students. While ODW is relatively new to the United States, the
   organization has a proud history.

   ODW creates a framework to expose students to the dynamic and diverse
   world around them while learning about the importance of volunteerism
   and community building. It empowers young people to show the world that
   they can be real leaders, and that a good idea can make a powerful
   difference in helping people improve their own lives.

   Annually, ODW students select a developing country in which to fund a
   project related to education, for example, school construction or
   repair, school supplies and textbooks, scholarships and vocational
   training, and so on. Students across America then review and vote on
   project proposals in the selected country, deciding which activities
   would most effectively help their peers. In the spring, students and
   teachers at each ODW school organize activities to educate and enlist
   the help of their classmates, school administration, local leaders, and
   community.

   Finally, students organize a work day to raise funds for the project
   they have helped select. Individual schools and students will choose
   what the work day will entail, from mowing lawns and working in
   factories or offices in the community, to getting sponsors for
   community service projects like cleaning a park. Proceeds earned by the
   students are donated to the development assistance project that the
   students have chosen.

   Operation Day's Work can tie in to any subject, bringing it to life
   through real world problem solving. From social studies and geography
   to arts, literature, health and science, ODW brings a mission to
   learning and gives students an opportunity to help build useful
   curriculum.
