http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERA/NA618121.HTML

   commerce logo          U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

                                                           December 8,
   1981                 OA/W63:MB/PER13W:JS

   TO:    All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:     Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   81-21

   1.    Material Transmitted.

   Revised pages Chapter A-61, "Staffing Standards and Management
   Policies."

   2.    Summary:

   Subsection 9.9 has been added. This new subsection is to be implemented
   immediately.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   Replaces Table of Contents, pages 2, 15, and 16 and add new pages 17 &
   18 to WSOM Chapter A-61, TM 81-2. dated March 4, 1981.

   Richard E. Hallgren
   Director, National Weather Service
     __________________________________________________________________

   commerce logo          U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

                                                           March 4, 1981
   OA/W63

   SUBJECT:     Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance 81-2

   TO :    All Holders of Operations Manual

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   Revised Chapter A-61, "Staffing Standards and Management Policies."

   2.    Summary:

   This revised chapter provides initial guidelines for the implementation
   of Area Management for the National Weather Service.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   Cancels Chapter A-6l, issuance 74-24, dated November 5, 1974.

   Richard E. Hallgren
   Director, National  Weather Service
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date    Org. Code     NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE         Part
   Chap.
   12-8-81        OA/W63            Operations Manual
              A            61

                 STAFFING STANDARDS AND MANAGEMENT POLICIES

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Purpose

   2.   Policy

   3.    Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO)

           3.1    Basic Staffing (WSFO)
           3.2    Cross-Utilization of Forecasters at WSFO's
           3.3    WSFO Program Management
           3.4    Deputy Meteorologist in Charge (DIM)
           3.5    The Lead Forecaster (LF) Responsibilities
           3.6    Focal Point (FP) Responsibilities
           3.7    The Program Leader (PL)
           3.8    The Weather Service Evaluations Officer (WOES)
           3.9    Responsibilities/Duties of the Warning Preparedness
   Meteorologist (WPM)
           3.10    Hydrologic Services (WSFO)

   4.    The Weather Service Office (SO)

           4.1    Integration of Cuties at the SO

   5.    The Weather Service Meteorological Observatory (WSMO)

   6.    The River Forecast Center (RFD)

   7.    National Centers (NEC, NCH, NSSFC, NWSTC)

   8.    Environmental Studies Service Center (ESC)

   9.    Management and Administrative Personnel

           9.1    Area Management - (WSFO MCI)
           9.2    Deputy Meteorologist in Charge (DIM)
           9.3    Meteorologist/Official in Charge at Who's/WSMO's
   (MCI/OIL)
           9.4    Hydrologist in Charge (HI)
           9.5    Deputy Hydrologist in Charge (CHIC)
           9.6    Supervisory Meteorological Technician (MST)
           9.7    The Area Electronics Supervisor (AS)
           9.8    The Sector Facilities Technician (ST)
       * 9.9    The Lead Forecaster (LF)
     __________________________________________________________________

   1.     Purpose. This chapter establishes policy for managing National
   Weather Service field offices. Two principles in the staffing policy
   are inherent; each will be carefully adhered to: equal pay for equal
   work and responsibility, and equitable sharing of duty during
   operational shifts.

   2.    Policy. The staffing levels of National Weather Service field
   offices are determined by operational program workloads assigned to
   offices. by National Weather Service Headquarters. The grade pattern of
   each office staff is determined by the assigned functions and the
   respective responsibility levels of  positions as evaluated by using
   Office of Personnel Management (OPM) grade classification standards
   and/or guidelines.

   It is the policy and objective of   the National Weather Service to:
   (1) balance programs and available staffing resources to the extent
   that external circumstances permit, (2) distribute available staffing
   resources as consistently and equitably as possible, and (3) organize
   resources in order to maximize productivity.

   3.     Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO). The WSFO is the primary
   source of meteorological and oceanographic forecasts and various user
   oriented services over a large area, such as an average size state. A
   description of the various programs, guidance, and general rules for
   operations of the WSFO can be found in the individual WSFO program
   letter and Part(s) C, D, and E of the Weather Service Operations Manual
   (WSOM). In principle, all WSFO's perform the same basic functions and
   provide similar products and services. WSFO's also coordinate the
   warning program for the area served. Variations do exist, however,
   based on the service area size, diversity of
   climatic/hydrologic/oceanographic/meteorological regimes, and the scope
   and complexity of the assigned Programs. Nearly all WSFO's are assigned
   service and warning responsibilities for specific counties in their
   area of responsibility.

   3.1     Basic Staffing (WSFO). The basic staffing of WSFO's provides a
   minimum of five forecast shifts per day for coverage of the Public and
   Aviation Weather programs and other local specialized service needs at
   the typical WSFO and six shifts at the larger WSFO's with highly
   complex forecast and service programs. Additional shifts are provided
   to meet the needs for special forecast programs or other specialized
   forecast needs. Five Lead Forecasters (LF's) are assigned to all
   WSFO's.

   3.2     Cross-Utilization of Forecasters at WSFO's. The ultimate goal
   of the forecast organization is to provide the best possible products
   and services by the most productive use of  personnel. This is usually
   accomplished by concentrating forecast responsibility and personnel at
   the WSFO's and by cross-utilizing forecasters.   Generally forecasters
   will be cross-utilized into only two or three of the WSFO Programs.

   Cross-utilization does not mean that all forecasters be continuously
   rotated through special forecast programs. Small units (2-3 persons) of
   forecasters trained in a special type of program can be rotated through
   that program's shifts with the Focal Point (FP) who, in turn rotates
   through other forecast areas.

   3.3     WSFO Program Management. The Meteorologist in Charge (MIC) is
   responsible for overall management of all WSFO programs, products, and
   services in his/her assigned management area. In the absence of the MIC
   or DMIC, the Lead Forecaster on duty is delegated the responsibility
   for overall station supervision.

   To better manage the scope of   programs assigned to the WSFO, one or
   more forecasters are designated to oversee each program. Where the
   program is specifically supported, i.e., extra professional personnel
   assigned to the WSFO, a forecaster is assigned to that program and is
   designated as the Focal Point (see 3.6).  Where the program is not
   specifically funded by the assignment of extra professional personnel,
   the MIC designates a forecaster to be called the Program Leader (see
   3.7).

   3.4     Deputy Meteorologist in Charge (DMIC). The DMIC will function
   as a full Deputy and assist the MIC in the management of the WSFO and
   the assigned service and management area. The DMIC shares fully in the
   MIC's responsibilities and acts as the MIC in h-is/her absence, with
   the same basic authority and scope of area management responsibility as
   the MIC. Deputy MIC positions are structured along the lines of a daily
   Operations Chief of the WSFO with attendant responsibilities for the
   assigned service and management area.

   3.5     The Lead Forecaster (LF) Responsibilities. The Lead Forecaster
   serves as the shift supervisor of the professional and technical
   employees on shift, and in the absence of the MIC or DMIC, acts as the
   MIC.

   In this capacity, the Lead Forecaster on duty is technically and
   administratively responsible for all operational weather and/or
   hydrologic service products issued by the WSF0 during his/her tour of
   duty and has technical oversight responsibility for WS0/WSM0 issuances
   and interface operations in the WSF0 assigned area of responsibility.

   In addition to the Lead Forecaster's technical and administrative
   responsibilities for the forecast shift being led, additional
   supervisory authorities are delegated by WSF0 MIC's to Lead
   Forecasters. The following are, at a minimum, those responsibilities
   delegated to all Lead Forecasters:

       a.     Monitoring and evaluating the timeliness and quality of all
   products and services rendered in the forecast area (including WS0/WSM0
   products and services); identifying and suggesting/coordinating
   remedial actions,if necessary, on a real-time basis.

       b.     Collaborating with the WSF0 MIC in determining ratings of
   WSF0 staff under his/her immediate supervision and providing insights
   to the WSF0 MIC or DMIC on other WS0/WSM0 staff.

       c.     Resolving shift employees' complaints and other
   administrative management issues impacting on the Work environment.

       d.     Granting emergency annual/sick leave.

       e.     Assessing training and/or recommending such procedures
   needed to maintain operational stability or efficiency.

       f.     Exercising call-back authority.

       g.     Authorizing emergency overtime.

   The Lead Forecaster must be thoroughly knowledgeable in all WSF0
   programs.

   3.6     Focal Point (FP) Responsibilities. The special programs Focal
   Point is a special program forecaster and the customer service
   representative for the program. The FP in this role is expected to be
   in regular contact with users of the program to help them assess their
   meteorological needs and problems; to inform them of available NWS
   products and services that might best fill their needs, and to educate
   the user in the most effective use of NWS services.

   Members of the WSF0 forecast staff should be cross-utilized and trained
   in special program operations to provide effective services for the
   specialized users in the Focal Point's absence. The FP also
   indoctrinates and trains other forecasters in special program
   operations as a step toward effective cross-utilization. The FP must
   keep the WSFO staff aware of changing user and program requirements,
   procedures, and operations, and ensure that necessary and current
   information is incorporated in the Station Duty Manual.

   Working on or designing forecast development and improvement projects,
   in the area of his/her specialty, is also an important duty of the
   Focal Point. These projects are conducted under the guidance of the
   MIC, the Scientific Services Division of the regional headquarters, or
   NWS Headquarters.

   Focal Points are normally cross-utilized 20 to 50 percent of their time
   with general forecasting or other special forecasting programs.

   3.7    The Program Leader (PL). The duties and responsibilities of the
   PL are similar to those of the FP (see 3.6), the principal difference
   being the amount of time devoted to the specialized program. Since the
   program is essentially unfunded, duties must be performed during shifts
   not required for the WSFO general forecasting operation. In addition,
   some PL tasks can be accomplished during slack periods of normal
   shifts.

   3.8     The Weather Service Evaluations Officer (WSEO). The WSEO is a
   staff assistant to the WSFO MIC. As such, the duties and
   responsibilities of the WSEO are to assist the WSFO MIC in evaluating
   the effectiveness of the programs throughout the WSFO's assigned area
   of responsibility, including adaptive forecast products at assigned
   WSOs and Center Weather Service Units (CWSU's).

   As in the case of the Focal Point, the WSEO should be cross-utilized 20
   to 50 percent of the time in general forecasting or special program
   forecasting activities. The details of the WSEO program are contained
   in WSOM Chapters A-63 and D-70.

   3.9     Responsibilities/Duties of the Warning Preparedness
   Meteorologist (WPM). The incumbent in this Position functions much like
   that of a special Focal Point (see 3.6). The WPM's are responsible for
   improving warning dissemination and responsiveness to warnings by
   various officials and the public. This position requires travel
   throughout the WSFO's area of forecast responsibility and coordination
   with many user groups and WSO's in evolving an effective warning and
   preparedness program. WPM's normally work at least 50 percent of their
   time on the preparedness program.

   At WSFO's where this program has not been specifically supported, the
   warning and Preparedness meteorologist functions are assigned or
   accomplished by the MIC utilizing the available resources of the WSFO.

   3.10     Hydrologic Services. WSFO's with significant hydrologic
   responsibilities should be staffed with a dedicated position to work
   with Federal, state, and local agencies to provide any necessary
   indoctrination and hydrologic training required by the WSFO's
   forecasters.

   At WSFO's where the river workload is heavy, a Hydrologic Service
   Specialist (Technician) should be added to the staff to further assist
   in the station's hydrologic Program. Meteorological or Hydrologic
   Technicians should be assigned to the data collection and entry
   functions at WSFO's and WSO's. The MIC will assign members of the
   meteorological staff to be cross-trained for providing backup support
   to the hydrologic program.

   While all WSFO's have some hydrologic responsibilities,  not all have a
   dedicated service position. A professional member of the staff should
   be designated as a Hydrology Program Leader at those WSFO's that are
   not authorized a dedicated hydrologist to perform the above functions.

   4.     The Weather Service Office (WSO). Direct public service is one
   of the primary program functions at nearly all WSO's. Other basic
   functions include data acquisition (hydrologic/meteorological), local
   adaptive forecasting, weather radar
   surveillance/observing-interpretation, and information dissemination
   utilizing NOAA Weather Radio. Nearly all WSO's also have responsibility
   for preparing, issuing, and disseminating severe weather and flash
   flood warnings and statements (tornado, marine, hurricane,
   thunderstorm, etc.). As such, the WSO is a high profile unit and is the
   backbone of the NWS public service and warning system. Selected WSO's
   are also assigned responsibility for such special forecast programs as
   Fire and Agricultural Weather or have hydrologic responsibilities
   similar to a WSFO.

   4.1     Integration of Duties at the WSO. Where possible, WSO
   operational duties should be integrated and shared by all staff
   meteorological technicians.

   One or more meteorologists may be assigned to a WSO to meet special
   program requirements. At WSO's with special service program
   responsibility, a meteorologist will usually be assigned as the MIC.

   5.     The Weather Service Meteorological Observatory (WSMO). The WSMO
   function is data acquisition (surface and upper-air observations). As a
   part of the radar observing function, the WSMO's serve as an integral
   part of the warning process in alerting and informing other offices of
   imminent severe storms and potentially severe weather. WSMO's have
   neither public service nor disaster preparedness responsibilities and
   are staffed only for data collection activities. Integration of
   observational functions (i.e., radar and upper-air) is desirable for
   staffing flexibility and career enhancement.

   6.     The River Forecast Center (RFC). The RFC is the first echelon
   office in the hydrologic forecast organization and Provides hydrologic
   guidance, river and flood forecasts, and related specialized services
   for a multistate area. The RFC's usually have a normal staffing range
   of 6 to 13 positions, depending upon assigned forecast responsibility
   and operational workload. Some RFC's provide one shift, 5 days a week
   and minimal weekend coverage. During flood threats or events, 24-hour
   coverage is provided through the use of overtime, if needed.

   Public dissemination functions are usually performed through WSFO's and
   WSO's with assigned hydrologic responsibilities.

   7.     National Centers (NMC, NHC, NSSFC, NWSTC). The National
   Meteorological Center, National Hurricane Center, National Severe
   Storms Forecast Center, and National Weather Service Training Center,
   will follow the general policies of this chapter. Their individual
   functions, being national in scope, will reflect staffing levels and
   patterns that will be approved on an individual basis by National
   Weather Service Headquarters.

   8.     Environmental Studies Service Center (ESSC). The mission of the
   ESSC is to provide timely, accurate agricultural weather advisory
   information to an assigned area, usually three to six states. To
   support that mission, the ESSC (1) works closely with the substation
   network specialists to develop and maintain a network of agricultural
   weather observations, (2) develops and maintains a climatological data
   bank, (3) conducts operationally oriented crop-weather relationship
   studies, and (4) conducts other programs as appropriate. In an effort
   to provide proper dissemination of the advisories and other
   information, the ESSC develops and maintains a strong visitation
   program with user organizations, state university research and
   extension specialists, and mass news disseminators. The ESSC also works
   closely with WSFO's to keep forecasters aware of current agricultural
   practices and what weather conditions have a significant impact on
   those practices.

   9.     Management and Administrative Personnel. WSOM Chapters A-10 and
   A-13 cover station management and the development of a Station Duty
   Manual and will be used for guidance in these areas. The following
   duties in this section are in addition to those outlined in the
   referenced chapters.

   9.1     Area Management - (WSFO MIC). A meteorologist in charge is
   assigned to manage each WSFO and, as such, acts as the Area Manager for
   his/her WSFO's assigned geographical service area. The Area Manager is
   involved in four basic areas integral to the area management concept.
   These are:

       a.     Responsibility and accountability for the meteorological and
   hydrologic service programs and the electronic maintenance program for
   the entire assigned service area.

       b.     Oversight of the WSO/WSMO/CWSU workforce in the assigned
   service area. WSFO staff, and all WSO/WSMO/CWSU supervisors in his/her
   service area.

       c.     Program evaluation for the entire service area.

       d.     Evaluation of performance of WSO/WSMO/CWSU supervisors in
   his/her assigned service area.

   Area Managers do not have supervisory authority over River Forecast
   Centers (RFC's) and Hydrologists in Charge (HIC's) in their management
   area. Area Managers do, however, coordinate with HIC's on hydrologic
   matters and are expected to invite HIC's to statewide meetings arranged
   to discuss NWS services and programs.

   In order to more fully explain certain relationships under the area
   management concept, the following guidelines should be adhered to as
   closely as possible.

   Supervisory Relationships

   Area Managers are the first line supervisors of WSO/WSMO supervisors
   within their management area. The Regional Director is the first line
   supervisor of Area Managers and second line supervisor of WSO/WSMO
   MIC's/OIC's. A listing of supervisory relationships and chain of
   performance evaluation for some staff members at the
   WSFO's/WSO's/WSMO's, etc., follows.

                WSF0 Positions
                                        First Line Supv.
                                                         Second Line Supv.
                Area Manager
                                        Regional Director
                                                         Director, NWS
                Deputy MIC
                                        Area Manager
                                                         Regional Director
                Lead Forecaster
                                        DMIC
                                                         Area Manager
                Journeyman Forecaster
                                        DMIC
                                                         Area Manager
                Supv. Met. Tech.
                                        DMIC
                                                         Area Manager
                Area Electronics Supv.
                                        Area Manager
                                                         Regional Director

                WSO/WSMO/CWSU Positions
                MIC/OIC                 Area Manager     Regional Director

                ESSC Positions
                MIC                     Chief, MSD       Regional Director

   All other positions in the area managed are to be evaluated in
   accordance with regional policy.

   Delegated Authority

       a.     Selection Authority - The Regional Director holds selection
   authority for all regional Positions except those positions reserved
   for the authority of the Director, NWS, (see WSOM chapter I-82, as
   amended). This authority may be redelegated by the Regional Director in
   the interest of efficiency, accountability, and program control. While
   the Regional Director holds selection authority for positions within
   the area managed by the WSFO MIC, the Regional Director may choose to
   redelegate selection authority for area positions to the WSF0 MIC, the
   HIC of RFC's, and to the MIC's or OIC's of area WSO's/WSMO's.
   Redelegation will be documented by an ROML.

   In any event, since the Area Manager and the area MIC's/OIC's are
   responsible and accountable for the meteorological and hydrologic
   programs of the service area, the Regional Director is responsible for
   placing a heavy emphasis on the opinion of the area MIC's/OIC's and/or
   the Area Manager in making selections for Positions in the area
   WSO's/WSMO's or the WSFO.

       b.     Fiscal

       (1)     Travel Funds - Funds for area programs are allocated and
   controlled by regional headquarters. However, at a minimum, the area
   manager is allocated an annual area travel budget for area program
   management functions (e.g., disaster preparedness, area units
   management interface and coordination, etc.)

       (2)     Processing Financial Documents - Procedures governing all
   financial documents will be in accordance with existing regional and
   NOAA policy.

       (3)     Overtime - The Regional Director holds overtime approval.
   This authority may be delegated in the interest of efficiency,
   accountability, and program control. Such redelegation will be
   documented in an ROML and will include appropriate delegated authority
   for emergency or non-scheduled overtime.

       c.     Awards - The area manager will prepare and forward award
   recommendations for MIC/OIC's in the service area in addition to
   personnel at the WSFO. He/she will also endorse recommendations from
   MIC/OIC's for personnel at WSO/WSMO's/CWSU's. Award approval will
   remain with the regional headquarters.

       d.     Leave Requests - The area manager will approve leave
   requests for MIC/OIC's in the service area and from the WSFO staff. At
   times, coordination with appropriate regional headquarters personnel
   will be required.

       e.     Within-grade Increases - Immediate and next higher
   supervisory approval will be based on earlier stated supervisory
   relationships.

       f.     Requests for Personnel Action (SF 52) - Requests for
   personnel actions will be initiated by first line supervisor of the
   Position involved with appropriate review and comment by the second
   line supervisor.

       g.     Grievances - The area manager will advise and assist
   MIC/OIC's and other first line supervisors in striving to resolve
   grievances at the informal level. When technical and administrative
   guidance is required, the labor-management specialist at regional
   headquarters will be contacted.

       h.     Operations - The quality and effectiveness of all programs
   in the management area will be of prime concern to the area manager.
   He/she will consult with the MIC/OIC's on operating procedures at the
   WSO/WSMO's and recommend changes as appropriate.

   Quality control procedures will be established to enable the area
   manager to keep abreast of the accuracy and timeliness of observing,
   forecasting, and warning products. Narrative products will be routinely
   checked for technical content and readability. NOAA Weather Radio
   broadcasts will be monitored for quality and consistency as
   opportunities occur.

   WSO preparedness activities will be monitored and recommendations will
   be made to assure a satisfactory level of community preparedness in the
   management area. WSO preparedness reports will be routed through the
   area manager to regional headquarters.

       i.     Communications - A flexible approach is advocated on written
   and telephone communications between WSFO's, WSO/WSMO's, and regional
   headquarters. Experience has shown it is not practical to attempt to
   regiment communications between offices. Involvement with the area
   manager should be meaningful, not just a formality.

   Each area manager, in coordination with regional headquarters, should
   set guidelines for his/her desired mode of operation. It is anticipated
   adjustments will be made as experience is gained in this aspect of area
   management.

       j.     Equal Employment Opportunity - The area manager is
   responsible for coordinating and monitoring EEO activities in his/her
   management area and assuring compliance with the Affirmative Action
   Plan, regional directives, and Policy. He/she assists the regional EEO
   Committee and the regional EEO coordinator by actively identifying
   recruitment sources and interviewing special Program candidates.
   Specific guidance will be incorporated into the Station Duty Manual.

       k.     Accountability - The effectiveness of the area manager will
   be measured in a number of ways including the following:

       (1)     Quality and responsiveness of area programs to user needs.

       (2)     Use of travel funds and overtime.

       (3)     Employee-management relations.

       (4)     Development of improvements in service programs.

       (5)     Effectiveness and timeliness in implementing regional and
   NWS directives.

       (6)     Effectiveness of EEO program.

   The WSFO MIC oversight responsibilities under area management include,
   but are not limited to, providing the following supervisory and
   managerial functions relative to the WSO's and WSMO's in his/her
   assigned area

       (1)     Evaluating the timeliness and quality of WSO/WSMO/CWSU
   products and services and overall condition and adequacy of the
   facilities and equipment.

       (2)     Identifying problems or deficiencies in WSO/WSMO/CWSU
   operations and either resolving them in coordination with the
   appropriate MIC/OIC or recommending solutions to the regional
   headquarters or Regional Director.

       (3)     Evaluating user's needs as they relate to products of the
   WSO's/WSMO's/CWSU's in the WSFO area and services.

       (4)     Monitoring of WSO/WSMO issuances.

       (5)     Providing leadership and guidance in correcting WSFO/
   WSO/WSMO/CWSU operational deficiencies; working out specific measures
   to bring about operational improvements.

       (6)     Coordinating with regional officials in evaluating the
   performance of WSO/WSMO/CWSU supervisors.

   WSFO MIC's should provide leadership in forecast and service program
   development and should also be given greater latitude to strengthen
   operations in both the WSFO and WSO/WSMO/CWSU area and to improve
   services to users in the entire forecast area.

   9.2     Deputy Meteorologist in Charge (DMIC). The DMIC will function
   as a full deputy to the MIC. Therefore, the DMIC has the same scope of
   responsibility and engages in all of the fundamental supervisory and
   managerial activities in which the WSFO MIC is involved. The DMIC will
   also usually act as the operations manager of the WSFO.

   These authorities and responsibilities must be assigned in fact and
   documented in position descriptions, program letters, directives, etc.

   9.3     Meteorologist/Official in Charge at WSO's/WSMO's (MIC/OIC). A
   Meteorologist/Official in Charge is assigned to manage each WSO or WSMO
   in the area and is responsible for the management and conduct of
   programs in their assigned area. This includes the following functions:

       a.     Responsibility and accountability for the meteorological and
   hydrologic service programs assigned to the facility.

       b.     Supervision and performance evaluation of the facility's
   workforce.

       c.     Program evaluation for the assigned service area.

       d.     Participation in the management of the meteorological and
   hydrologic service programs of the area managed by the WSFO MIC.

   Meteorologists are assigned to those WSO's/WSMO's where the station
   program requires the exercise of professional meteorological expertise.
   These programs usually involve specialized forecasts, state liaison
   functions, and participation in the hurricane warning program.

   Responsibility for individual station programs and operations rests
   with WSO/WSMO supervisors. In discharging these responsibilities,
   supervisors are expected to employ their resources as effectively,
   efficiently, and economically as possible in order to achieve the
   objectives of their various station programs.

   WSO supervisors are also expected to perform certain management
   functions within their areas of responsibility. They should act for the
   National Weather Service in liaison with Federal, State, and local
   officials as appropriate. They should establish and maintain contact
   with media representatives and other users of our products in their
   areas to maximize the responsiveness and utility of service programs
   and products.

   The effectiveness of NWS public service programs depends on the success
   of local supervisors performing the management functions assigned to
   them.

   MIC's/OIC's will coordinate with the area manager when seeking changes
   in those programs that may affect other stations in their areas. It is
   the responsibility of the MIC/OIC to:

       a.     Keep the area manager informed of the status of WSO/WSMO
   programs, products, and services and provide other information as
   requested by the area manager.

       b.     Evaluate the effectiveness of station Products and services
   and recommend and implement improvements.

       c.     Carry out action items assigned in area management meetings.

       d.     Advise and assist, as requested by the area manager, in the
   management of programs within the service area.

   Nothing in the area management concept should he construed as
   diminishing the role or authority of the MIC/OIC at NWS WSO's/WSMO's.
   Rather, the MIC/OIC is free to coordinate on policy and can solicit
   advice from regional staff or the Regional Director, as necessary.

   9.4     Hydrologist in Charge (HIC). A Hydrologist in Charge is
   assigned to manage all River Forecast Centers (RFC's). The HIC provides
   technical and managerial leadership and guidance as outlined in chapter
   A-10.

   The HIC is responsible for carrying out local planning of station
   operations, coordination with the appropriate regional office and the
   Office of Hydrology, and for coordination and meeting the requests of
   the WSFO's/ WSO's for hydrologic guidance and services within the RFC's
   geographical area of responsibility.

   The HIC also provides representatives for the Department of Commerce,
   NOAA, or the NWS on special water-related study groups or river basin
   areas.

   Administrative Management

       a.     Selection authority as delegated by the Regional Director.

       b.     Evaluation of the DHIC and RFC's supervisors.

       c.     Union contract application as it affects RFC operations/
   personnel, including resolution of grievances and hearing of
   complaints.

       d.     Management of funds expressly allocated to the RFC for
   program management.

       e.     Provides advice, expertise, and assistance, as requested by
   the area manager(s), in the management of program/interface within the
   forecast area.

   Technical Management

       a.     Evaluation of RFC products and their effectiveness.

       b.     Identification of user requirements and the appropriate
   response.

   c. Coordination of hydrologic matters with Federal, state, and local
   governmental users.

   d. Coordination and liaison of RFC products and services.

   9.5     Deputy Hydrologist in Charge (DHIC). At those RFC's authorized
   a DHIC position, the DHIC has essentially the same basic authorities,
   the same scope of  responsibility, and will engage in all of  the
   fundamental supervisory and managerial activities in which the RFC HIC
   is involved. However, the DHIC should be viewed more as an operations
   manager of the RFC while assisting the HIC in all programs in the
   assigned area of responsibility. The DHIC will also bear responsibility
   for one of RFC's specialized hydrologic programs, e.g., flash flood,
   operations, computer systems, etc.

   These authorities and responsibilities must be assi9ned in fact and
   documented in position descriptions, program letters, directives, etc.

   9.6     Supervisory Meteorological Technician (SMT). The SMT is the
   1ine supervisor for certain members of the WSFO technical staff and is
   responsible to the MIC/OIC for the performance of that staff in
   observations, data acquisition, operator assigned instrument and
   equipment maintenance, briefings (public and pilot), and, if assigned,
   adaptive forecast and/or severe storm warning duties. Considerable time
   may be spent by the incumbent on operational shifts.

   9.7     The Area Electronics Supervisor (AES). The AES is responsible
   for carrying out the electronics maintenance program within the WSFO
   service area of responsibility. As such, the AES serves as a full
   member of the area management team in areas which have an AES assigned
   to the WSFO.

   The AES functions as the line supervisor of all senior electronics
   technicians (SET's) and electronics technicians within his/her assigned
   area and assures that all electronic, electro-mechanical, and related
   systems are regularly calibrated and operating in conformance with
   established technical standards. The AES also conducts field
   inspections and quality control activities relating to technical
   effectiveness and systems performance. (Ref to Equipment Maintenance
   Program, WSOM Chapter H-50, for more details).

   The AES is part of the staff of the WSFO. If the AES is located at a
   WSO, he/she is administratively part of that staff, but will still be
   under the line supervision of the WSFO MIC. In the case of WSFO's with
   no assigned AES, the AES who supervises the area electronics
   technicians coordinates with, and assists, the management team in
   electronics and maintenance matters. Requests for AES attendance at
   area management meetings are coordinated in advance with the MIC/OIC of
   the station to which the AES is assigned.

   9.8     The Sector Facilities Technician (SFT). The SFT is the regional
   engineering representative for all construction projects,
   installations, relocations, rehabilitations, or building and equipment
   maintenance in his area of responsibility, which may comprise an area
   of two or three states.

   The SFT is under the technical supervision of the Chief, Facilities
   Engineering Branch, of the appropriate regional headquarters, but may
   be supplied administrative support by the WSFO MIC.

   * 9.9     The Lead Forecaster (LF). The Lead Forecaster functions as
   the line supervisor of all professional or technical employees assigned
   to the particular shift for which the Lead Forecaster is charged.
   Because of shift assignment rotation, it is not practical to designate
   formally each WSFO Lead Forecaster as the first line supervisor of all
   WSFO shift employees. However, the Lead Forecaster is a supervisor and
   is the first point of management contact for all technical or
   administrative situations during a given shift.

   Because of the unusual circumstances provided by a rotating shift
   environment, it is necessary and practical to designate formally the
   DMIC and SMT as the first line supervisors of nonsupervisory shift
   employees. However, the Lead Forecaster is the surrogate station
   manager on any particular shift. As such, the Lead Forecaster
   discharges several important supervisory duties. At a minimum, each
   Lead Forecaster fully discharges all of the following duties.

       a.     Collaborating in the performance evaluation of all
   professional/ technical shift employees. The Lead Forecaster works
   jointly with the DMIC and SMT in developing performance ratings and
   appraisals of employees by providing written input on each employee's
   performance at all stages of the performance appraisal process. This
   includes written input to performance plans, progress reviews, annual
   ratings, recommendations for awards, and other recognition.

       b.     Providing for adequate shift staffing. The Lead Forecaster
   grants short term or emergency annual or sick leave, authorizes
   overtime, calls back employees, drops shifts, or otherwise provides for
   shift coverage. As station manager for an assigned shift, the Lead
   Forecaster is the first point of management contact for all short term
   leave requests. More importantly, the Lead Forecaster makes the
   decision if and/or how the shift is to be covered, takes the necessary
   action to obtain coverage, and formally documents those actions on a
   supervisory checklist or 109. This decision-making pertains also to
   situations where the MIC or DMIC is on duty in the WSFO since the roles
   of the MIC (subsection 3.3) and the DMIC (subsection 3.4) are clearly
   those of greater order of responsibility, i.e. area service programs
   and around-the-clock station operations, respectively.

       c.     Providing for the quality and timeliness of all shift
   forecast products and services. The Lead Forecaster is responsible for
   setting the direction of the shift with regard to the assessment of the
   weather. The Lead Forecaster makes decisions when disagreements arise
   as to the assessment of the forecast, and he/she may overrule the
   professional meteorological opinion of a journeyman forecaster or
   require a further assessment of the synoptic situation. Documentation
   of such occurrences are appropriately noted on the supervisory
   checklist or log.

       d.     Distributing workload for the most effective utilization of
   shift employees. The Lead Forecaster assesses the work to be
   accomplished during the shift, the impending weather situation, the
   abilities of assigned shift personnel, and determines the duty and
   forecast desk assignments for that shift. The Lead Forecaster
   continually assesses conditions during the shift to determine if
   changes to assignments or additional personnel are needed to meet
   changing demands for weather services, increased weather watch,
   advisory statements, warnings, etc. Such workload distribution actions
   are taken and documented on the supervisory checklist or log.

       e.     Resolving employee complaints and problems and taking
   necessary disciplinary measures. As shift supervisor, the Lead
   Forecaster is the logical and most appropriate person for first dealing
   with any employee complaints and problems. It follows from the Lead
   Forecaster's responsibility for granting short-term leave and arranging
   for adequate shift staffing, that any tardiness, attendance, or fitness
   for duty issues are dealt with first by the Lead Forecaster on an
   informal basis. Employee counseling is one of the primary ways a Lead
   Forecaster deals with such matters. Depending on the nature of the
   problem, the Lead Forecaster may be involved in further steps,
   effectively recommending actions to the DMIC, such as leave restriction
   letters, official reprimands and other disciplinary measures. At a
   minimum, the Lead Forecaster participates in grievances in the informal
   steps of the appropriate grievance process.

       f.     Providing for the quality and timeliness of WSO products and
   services. The Lead Forecaster is responsible for reviewing products and
   services provided by the area WSO's to ensure the integrity of the area
   service program. Such a review may include taking corrective actions
   when in the judgment of the Lead Forecaster WSO products are inadequate
   or inconsistent and noting on the supervisory checklist any of   these
   areas of concern or any exemplary action taken by WSO staff.  The Lead
   Forecaster provides input on WSO staff performance based on observation
   and review of those products to the MIC or DMIC as part of their
   evaluation of the management area.

   WSOM Issuance
   81-21    12-8-81
   Rev. 1
