http://www.facadatabase.gov/help.asp

                                  CMS Home

                                                Home Search


   Public Help Manual   .pdf   .doc
                       DFO Help Manual   .pdf   .doc
                       GFO Help Manual   .pdf   .doc
                       CMO Help Manual   .pdf   .doc
                     Detailed Help (Includes All above)

   What Each ITEM NO. Means:

   The items have the same numbering system that was used on paper reports
   in past years.  They are arranged below in the same order that they can
   be found on the web site.  They are behind buttons using the same names
   as the groupings below.

   General Information:
   1. This is the agency abbreviation and should contain the two to five
   letter agency abbreviation for the highest department or agency level
   to which the committee belongs, e.g., HHS; EPA.
   2. This is the Fiscal Year being reported, e.g., 1997, 1998, 1999,
   2000.
   3a. This is the Full name of the committee, or subcommittee, as listed
   in the current charter, e.g.,Arkansas Advisory Committee.
   4. This item should be Yes (or True) if the committee was established
   during the fiscal year being reported.
   5. This is the date the most recent charter for the committee was
   filed, e.g., 04/17/1998.
   6. This is the date on which the current charter is expected to be
   renewed and re-filed, e.g., 04/17/2000.
   7. This is the date on which committee will terminate, or could be
   expected to terminate. This date must be a date in time beyond the date
   in item 6, e.g., 05/21/2001.
   8a. This item should be Yes (or True) if the committee was terminated
   during the fiscal year being reported?
   8b. This entry should list the agency decision document, the statute,
   or the Executive Order (other than EO 12838) which authorizes
   termination of the committee, e.g., 42 U.S.C. 1975. This entry should
   not contain statements like "expired charter," "abolished," or Section
   14 of FACA, which are facts but not the termination authority.
   8c. This is the date on which the committee terminated during the
   fiscal year being reported, e.g., 04/19/1998. This entry should be
   completed if the committee was terminated.
   11. Select one of the four kinds of authority normally used to
   establish a committee.. "Statutory(Congress Created)" is
   non-discretionary establishment authority specifically mandated in law.
   "Authorized by Law" and "Agency Authority" are both discretionary
   establishment authorities, either pursuant to law, or by the decision
   of the agency head, respectively. "Presidential" generally means
   established by Executive Order or other direction by the President, and
   also is considered to be non-discretionary. For negotiated rulemaking
   ("Reg-Neg") committees and labor-management partnership committees (EO
   12871), select "Presidential."
   12. This is the agency decision document, the statute, or the Executive
   Order (other than EO 12838), e.g., Executive Order 13017 or 21 U.S.C.
   394. This is not an approval letter from OMB, a consultation with (or
   concurrence from) GSA, the charter, or a section of FACA.
   13. This is the date of the document in item 12, e.g., 11/28/1990. This
   is not the date in item 5.
   14a or 14b. All committees are either "Ad hoc" or "Continuing." For
   this report, an Ad hoc committee is one which is not renewed beyond its
   original biennial charter and generally exists for two years or less.
   Select either Ad hoc or Continuing.
   14c.  In addition to being either Ad hoc or Continuing, a committee
   could be Presidential.  A "Presidential" (committee) is one which
   directly advises the President. This item should be Yes (or True) if
   the committee is Presidential.
   15. Select the function of this committee, which may be
       National Policy/Issue Advisory,
       Non-Scientific Program Advisory,
       Scientific/Technical Program Advisory,
       Grant Review,
       Regulatory Negotiation, or
       Other.
   Select only one, so if a committee must be described by more than one
   function, select "Other" and add an explanation to item 21. (Remarks)
   if necessary.

   Recommendations:
   9. This item reflects the recommendation of the agency officials
   responsible for the committee. Select either Continue or Terminate or
   Merge. This item only needs to be completed if the committee was not
   terminated during the fiscal year being reported.
   10a. This item should  be completed with a Yes or a No if Terminate or
   Merge was selected in item 9. If an explanation is necessary, use item
   21 (Remarks).
   10b. If legislation is required to terminate the committee, select
   either Pending or Enacted to indicate the status of the legislation and
   include the bill number for proposed legislation or the statute
   (U.S.C.) for enacted legislation in item 21 (Remarks).
   21. This memo field can be used for any explanations, details, or
   notations that are needed to properly answer or qualify other items in
   this report.

   Reports:
   16. All formal, substantive committee and subcommittee reports relative
   to the committee's scope and duties that are made to the agency, the
   President, or the Congress should be individually listed in a separate
   record. The program counts the number of records to produce the
   eventual number of reports. It is not necessary to include committee
   meeting minutes or transcripts and various administrative reports
   determined by the agency or this Annual Report to GSA.  List the
   complete title, e.g., Annual Report to the Secretary, and the
   date,e.g., 09/30/97, the report was issued, each set on a new, separate
   record.   No particular order is required and the program will list
   them in date order.

   Meetings:
   17. Each meeting should be listed on a separate record.  Each record
   includes a selection of whether the meeting was Open, Closed, or
   Partially Closed, the meeting's Start Date, e.g., 05/05/1997, and Stop
   Date,e.g., 05/06/1997, and the meeting's purpose.   While filling in
   the purpose is optional, it is very useful to include it, and both the
   Start Date and Stop Dates are necessary to determine the length of the
   meetings.
   All formal committee and subcommittee meetings held  under section 10
   of FACA should be included and listed each on a separate record. The
   program produces a total count of the meetings by counting the number
   of records.  If more than one meeting is held on the same date, a
   separate record should be used for each separate meeting.  The total
   number of meetings reported should equal the meetings posted (and not
   subsequently canceled) in the Federal Register and any other venues
   approved for meeting notices in the future.  The program will list the
   meetings entered in date  order.
   List all other activities the agency decides to include in this report,
   e.g., site visits, information-gathering or research sessions, etc., in
   item 21 (Remarks).

   Costs:
   18. The fiscal year being reported is actual and the next fiscal year
   is estimated.  The costs should be in whole dollars. Please complete
   each item and do not use decimals, the letters K, M, NA, or leave the
   entry field blank. If the amount for a field is 0 (zero), enter a 0.
   18a. Enter the personnel payments in fields 1, 2, 3, and 4. Here's an
   example.  A GS-11 with a salary level of $45,000 per year is spending
   10% of his/her duty time working as an assistant staff director for a
   committee.The total cost of the GS-11 for committee activity is salary
   plus benefits (figure 17% for benefits) times 10% or $5,265.  In this
   case the dollar amount of $5,265 should be included in item 18a3. Items
   18a2 and 18a3, the Federal member and Federal staff salary costs
   respectively, should always include benefits costs.  To compute
   benefits, you can multiply salary by the benefit percentage generally
   used by your agency (normally between 14% to 18%) or by the government
   average of 16%.
   18b. Fields 1, 2, 3, and 4 should include all travel and per diem costs
   incurred by committee activity and authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5703.
   18c. This field includes all administrative costs not attributable
   either to personnel payments or to travel and per diem.
   18d. The program computes the totals, but be careful to enter your
   figures in the correct fields and do not leave any fields blank.
   NOTE: In calculating personnel payments and other costs associated with
   Federal advisory committee activities under FACA, only those discrete
   costs directly related to the committee’s scope and duties should be
   reported. Agencies must assure that only those incremental costs
   necessary to directly support the committee are captured for purposes
   of this Annual Report. As a general rule, agencies should not include
   expenses which: (1) are part of ongoing program activities; (2) are
   incurred as part of efforts not directly related to the committee's
   functions; or (3) were programmed for other purposes prior to the
   establishment of the committee. Each agency should follow any
   additional internal guidance developed or derived from either statutory
   or other administrative authorities which are peculiar to that agency.
   Any questions concerning a specific agency's advisory committee cost
   reporting for this Annual Report, or regarding the guidance provided in
   these instructions, should be directed to the Committee Management
   Secretariat.
   19. This item is the total of the federal FTE count supporting the
   committee's activities, to the nearest tenth, e.g., 4.3. There should
   be a direct comparable relationship in fiscal value between item 19 and
   item 18a3.   In the example for item 18a above, item 19 should show .1
   FTE for the federal staff member working as an assistant staff director
   on the committee's work.

   Justifications:
   20. Answers to these annual review questions are required except for
   committees established or terminated during the fiscal year being
   reported. Be brief and specific, confining answers to activities from
   the reported fiscal year. All answers must be complete and accurate,
   particularly since item 20a responses continue to constitute the
   performance measures for OMB Circular A-135.

   Members:
   List each member on a separate record.  The program counts the number
   of members for each committee by counting the number of records.  List
   the member’s name in the fields provided , including  professional or
   preferred title abbreviation as appropriate (e.g., Dr., Hon., Lt.
   Col.).
   List the preferred or selected occupation or affiliation as
   appropriate, indicating either the member’s profession, employment or
   employer, or area of interest or expertise, organization, or
   representational category.
   If the member is the chairperson of the committee, select Yes (or True)
   for the Chairperson Label.
   The participation dates and e-mail address are optional.
   Report all members serving on the committee at any time during the
   fiscal year being reported.
   NOTE: The determination of which persons are to be counted as "members"
   of the committee, including members of any subcommittee, is subject to
   the statutory or administrative authority for the committee under which
   such members are appointed or selected, and is the responsibility of
   the agency. This includes such undefined categories as "ex officio,"
   "substitute" (or "alternate"), or "ad hoc" (i.e., temporary) member.

   Annual Report:
   The reported data for the committee which can be printed from the
   internet.

   Designated Federal Official:
   The name, , title, phone, fax, and e-mail of the Designated Federal
   Officer (DFO) for the committee can be edited by the designated DFO,
   GFO, or CMO.

   The Concurring Agency Official or Group Federal Official:
   Either the agency official having responsibility for a set of
   committees or the agency official other than the CMO who formally
   certifies the accuracy of the reported data for the agency.  The name,
   title, phone, fax, and e-mail of the GFO for the committee can be
   edited by the designated GFO, or CMO.

   The Committee Management Officer:
   The agency official who formally manages the committees, reports the
   committee data annually, and certifies the accuracy of the reported
   data for the agency.  The name, title, phone, fax, and e-mail of the
   CMO for the agency can be edited by the Committee Management
   Secretariat.

                          Database  Search  Help
      __________________________________________________________________

           Contact: Dr. Kennett Fussell, kennett.fussell@gsa.gov
