http://laserweb.jpl.nasa.gov/Mars_Organic_Detector.html

   Mars Organic Detector (MOD) Tunable Diode Laser Spectrometer

   MOD Principal Investigator:    Dr. Jeffrey L. Bada
                                                   Scripps Institute of
   Oceanography

   TDL Spectrometer instrument Co-I:     Dr. Christopher R. Webster
                                                                   Jet
   Propulsion Laboratory

   Other MOD Co-Investigators: D.L. Blaney, M. Duke, F.J. Grunthaner, R.A.
   Mathies, G.D. McDonald, C.P. McKay, D.A. Paige, S.K. Ride, M. Wadhwa

   The Mars Organic Detector (MOD) is designed to detect organic compounds
   in rock and soil samples directly on the surface of Mars, in order to
   assess the biological potential of the planet. In addition, the MOD
   Tunable Diode Laser (TDL) spectrometer component will provide
   information on desorption and decomposition temperatures, as well as
   the release rates and quantities of water and carbon dioxide that can
   be liberated from regolith samples, thereby providing the parameters
   needed for the design of systems for the future large-scale in situ
   extraction of valuable consumable resources. The MOD TDLS will also
   measure the atmospheric water, carbon dioxide, and CO[2] isotopic
   composition in order to determine whether there is an offset between
   atmospheric and surface carbonates, a finding which could indicate that
   a reservoir of biotic organic carbon is present in the Mars regolith.

   wpe3.jpg (11334 bytes)

   The analyses to be carried out by the MOD instrument are designed to
   exam three important hypotheses relevant to fundamental biology and in
   situ resources:
     * Organic compounds associated with either extinct or extant life
       and/or abiotic chemistry are present in Martian regolith samples.
     * Extractable water, in amounts needed by future human explorers, can
       be obtained from the Martian regolith.
     * The carbon dioxide in the Martian atmosphere is depleted in the
       isotope carbon-13 relative to that in surface carbonates.

   To test first the two hypotheses, MOD carries out two simultaneous
   complementary experiments: simple sublimation-based extraction,
   fluorescence detection and quantitation of the key organic compounds
   amino acids, amines, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) at
   sub-picomole (<10 -12 mole) levels— that is, at least 100 times more
   sensitive then Viking—and the tunable diode laser spectrometer (TDLS)
   detection and quantification of evolved water and carbon dioxide in
   order to assess the water and carbonate inventory of the Martian
   surface. The last hypothesis is tested by direct measurements using the
   TDLAS of the atmospheric carbon dioxide content and its isotopic
   composition, and by comparison with the isotopic ratios determined for
   evolved gas. The unambiguous detection of the organic compounds would
   be a significant step in assessing whether life ever existed on Mars.

      Back to Top

                             [BurstaniE151.gif]

   [jplsmall.gif]   [tinycitlogo.gif]     [nasaball-icon.gif]

                                                 Jet Propulsion Laboratory
                                                        4800 Oak Grove Ave
                                                         Mail Stop 183-401
                                                        Pasadena, CA 91109

   Last updated: November 12, 2001.

                   Go back to main home page http:// laserweb.jpl.nasa.gov
