http://www.tfhrc.gov/feedbk/privy.htm

Skip Repetitive Links. Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
Menu.

menu bar.

           Web Site Privacy Notice

           We collect no personal information about you when you visit our Web
           site unless you choose to provide this information to us. However,
           we collect and store certain information automatically. Here is how
           we handle information about your visit to our Web site.
           What We Collect and Store Automatically
           If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the Web site,
           read pages, or download information, we gather and store certain
           information about your visit. This information does not identify you
           personally. We collect and store only the following information
           about your visit including:
           * The IP address (an IP address is a number that is assigned to each
             computer connected to the Internet) from which you access our Web
             site.
           * The type of browser and operating system used to access our site.
           * The date and time you access our site.
           * The pages you visit.
           * If you linked to our Web site from another Web site, the address of
             that Web site.

           We use the information we collect to count the number and type of
           visitors to the different pages on our site, and to help us make our
           site more useful to visitors like you.
           If You Send Us E-mail
           You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in email
           with a comment or question. Note: This is not secure e-mail! We ask
           that you not send information by e-mail that you would not want a
           third party to read. If you need to provide us with personal
           information (such as your Social Security number or home address),
           please call, write, or visit your field office.

           We use the information received via email to improve our service to
           you or to respond to your request. When we reply to your e-mail, we
           will send you only general information. If we can identify you and
           have your telephone number or address in our records, we will
           furnish any personal information by telephone or letter. This helps
           to ensure we do not send your personal information to someone asking
           for it without your knowledge. Sometimes, we forward your e-mail to
           other government employees who may be better able to help you.
           Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not
           share our e-mail with any other outside organizations.

           Links to Other Sites
           Our Web site has many links to our partners, especially other
           federal agencies. In a few cases we link to private organizations.
           When you link to another site, you are no longer on our site and are
           subject to the privacy policy of the new site.

   What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                               Services
 Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map | Privacy Notice |
                               Feedback
                     TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                 http://www.tfhrc.gov/feedbk/privy.htm
