http://www.sc.doe.gov/security_notice.htm


  Office of Science
                    Office of Science Send Comments DOE Phone & E-mail Directory

     Home [bt_spacer.gif] Biology and Environment [bt_spacer.gif] Basic
    Energy Science [bt_spacer.gif] Fusion Energy Science [bt_spacer.gif]
      High Energy & Nuclear Physics [bt_spacer.gif] Advanced Scientific
                 Computing [bt_spacer.gif] Science Education

                                                         Provacy Disclamer



   Privacy and Security Notice


   SECURITY NOTICE

      This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
      Federal functions. The Department of Energy uses software programs to
      monitor this web site for security purposes to ensure it remains
      available to all users and to protect information in the system. By
      accessing this web site, you are expressly consenting to these
      monitoring activities.

      Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
      the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
      authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
      information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
      is prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
      enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
      Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
      Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996, codified at section 1030 of
      Title 18 of the United States Code, or other applicable criminal laws.

   GENERAL DISCLAIMER

      This system is made available by an agency of the United States
      Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency
      thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or
      implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
      accuracy, Completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
      product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not
      infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific
      commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark,
      manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply
      its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States
      Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators
      expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the
      United States Government or any agency thereof.

   PRIVACY NOTICE

      We collect no personal information about you when you visit a DOE Web
      site, unless otherwise stated, unless you choose to provide this
      information to us. However, we collect and store certain information
      automatically. What we collect and store automatically is as follows:
        * the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you
          access the Internet (i.e. 123.456.789.012) whether yours
          individually or provided as a proxy by your Internet Service
          Provider (ISP)
        * the date and time you access our site
        * the pages you peruse (recorded by the text and graphics files that
          compose that page)
        * the Internet address of the Website from which you linked directly
          to our site.

      We use the summary statistics to help us make our site more useful to
      visitors, such as assessing what information is of most and least
      interest to visitors, and for other purposes such as determining the
      site's technical design specifications and identifying system
      performance or problem areas.

      This information is NOT shared with anyone beyond the support staff to
      this web site, except when required by Law Enforcement investigation,
      and is used only as a source of anonymous statistical information.

   COMMENTS SENT BY E-MAIL

      You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in an e-mail
      message containing your comments or questions. We use this information
      to improve our service to you or to respond to your request. There are
      times when your message is forwarded, as e-mail, to other Department of
      Energy employees who may be better able to help you. Except for
      authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not share our e-mail
      with any other outside organizations.
   [dot_spacer.gif]

   [r_caper.gif]

   Home • Biology & Environment • Basic Energy Science • Fusion Energy
   Science• High Energy & Nuclear Physics • Advanced Scientific Computing
     Programs Offices • Leadership • DOE National Labs • Lab Science
  Publications • DOE R&D Portfolio • Budget • Science Education • Grants
                                and Contracts
       Comments• Phone & Email Directory • U.S. Department of Energy
                         Web Access for the Disabled
