http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/order15.pdf

   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA
   ----------------------------------------------------------------x : MDL
   NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID PRODUCTS : LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION: L
   : : JUDGE FALLON : MAG. JUDGE AFRICK
   ----------------------------------------------------------------x
   PRETRIAL ORDER NO. 15 (Motion and Hearing for Class Certification -
   This order supersedes and replaces PTO No.15 signed November 30, 2001)
   On October 5, 2001, as per Order previously issued by this Court, the
   Plaintiffs' Steering Committee filed a Master Class Action Complaint to
   address the various class action complaints subject to transfer to this
   Court. Pursuant to the authority granted in In re Propulsid Prods.
   Liab. Lit., MDL 1355 (J.D.P.M.L. 8/7/2000), this Order establishes a
   schedule for the conduct of discovery related to the issue of class
   certification, the briefing of limited Daubert issues related to class
   certification and the final briefing and hearing of Plaintiffs' Motion
   to Certify Class Action. ACCORDINGLY, THE COURT ENTERS THE FOLLOWING
   ORDER: 1. Master Answer. Defendants shall file a Master Answer by
   November 12, 2001. 2. Completion of Document Production. Defendants
   will complete the production of domestic documents responsive to
   Plaintiffs Merits Request for Production of Documents Propounded to
   Defendants - Set No. One by October 31, 2001. Defendants shall
   cooperate and - 1 - coordinate with Plaintiffs in the sequencing and
   prompt production of electronic data and foreign documents to allow
   availability of as much of this material as is practicable prior to the
   April 10, 2002, hearing on class certification. 3. Motion to Certify
   Class Action. Plaintiffs shall file their Motion to Certify Class
   Action together with supporting Memorandum, exhibits, and affidavits by
   January 3, 2002. The Memorandum shall be limited to twenty - five (25)
   pages exclusive of attachments. 4. Plaintiffs' Fact Witnesses.
   Plaintiffs shall make an initial designation of known fact witnesses
   who may be called to testify at the class certification hearing
   (whether live or by deposition) by November 15, 2001 and shall
   supplement such listing, if necessary, at the time the Motion to
   Certify Class Action is filed on January 3, 2002. 5. Discovery to Class
   Representatives. Commencing as of the date this Order is entered,
   Defendants shall be entitled to propound additional written discovery
   upon the designated class representatives. This discovery shall not be
   duplicative of information previously provided in the Plaintiff Profile
   Form provided by the class representative. Further, Defendants shall be
   entitled to take depositions of the designated class representatives
   with respect to class certification issues. The depositions shall be
   limited to one day per class representative. Depositions of class
   representatives shall be completed by January 30, 2002. 6.
   Disclosure/Discovery of Plaintiffs' Experts. Plaintiffs shall furnish
   to Defendants expert reports in accordance with Fed.R.Civ.P.
   26(a)(2)(B) and dates of availability of their experts for depositions
   by December 26, 2001. Defendants shall complete the depositions of
   Plaintiffs' experts by February 6, 2002. 7. Trial Plan. Plaintiffs
   shall submit a proposed Trial Plan and outline for all class-wide - 2 -
   relief at the time the Motion for Class Certification is filed on
   January 3, 2002. Defendants shall submit a Response to the proposed
   Trial Plan at the time the Opposition to Motion to Certify Class Action
   is filed on March 4, 2002. 8. Defendants' Fact Witnesses. Defendants
   shall designate fact witnesses who may be called to testify at the
   class certification hearing(whether live or by deposition) by February
   1, 2002. 9. Fact Discovery Deadline. The parties shall complete the
   depositions of all fact witnesses (other than class representatives) by
   February 20, 2002. If additional fact witnesses are disclosed by either
   party, such disclosure shall be made in sufficient time prior to the
   class certification hearing so that a reasonable opportunity to take
   discovery is provided to the other side, without prejudice to any
   party. 10. Disclosure/Discovery of Defendants' Experts. Defendants
   shall furnish to plaintiffs expert reports in accordance with F.R.C.P.
   26(a)(2)(B) and dates of availability of their experts for depositions
   by February 25, 2002. The Plaintiffs shall complete the depositions of
   the Defendants experts by March 18, 2002. 11. Opposition to Motion to
   Certify Class Action. Defendants shall file their Memorandum in
   Opposition to Motion to Certify Class Action together with exhibits,
   affidavits and depositions by March 4, 2002. The Memorandum shall be
   limited to twenty - five (25) pages exclusive of attachments. 12.
   Plaintiffs' Memorandum in Reply. By April 1, 2002, plaintiffs shall
   file their Memorandum in Reply to the Defendants' Memorandum in
   Opposition to Motion to Certify Class Action. The Reply Memorandum
   shall be limited to twenty - five (25) pages exclusive of - 3 -
   attachments. Supporting affidavits or depositions may be referenced
   and/or attached only if the affiants/deponents were timely designated
   in accordance with this Order. 13. Presentation of Limited Daubert
   Issues. The parties shall meet and confer in advance of the January
   monthly status conference to discuss the presentation of limited
   Daubert issues, in accordance with this Court's Minute Entry of August
   27, 2001, at the class certification hearing on April 10, 2002. 14.
   Agenda and Procedure for Class Certification Hearing. By April 1, 2002
   the parties shall file with the Court an agenda and proposed procedure
   for the class certification hearing. The agenda shall include a listing
   of all witnesses, an identification of all documents or things to be
   used at the hearing, an indication of any objections to evidence and
   the reason or basis for such objections, and any time limits for oral
   argument. The parties shall meet and confer in sufficient time prior to
   April 1, 2002 to confect the submission. A pre-hearing conference will
   be held by the Court on April 3, 2002 at 1:30 p.m. to finalize the
   agenda and the procedures to be followed at the class certification
   hearing. 15. Hearing. The hearing on the Motion to Certify Class Action
   shall be on Wednesday, April 10, 2002, at 9:00 a.m. NEW ORLEANS,
   LOUISIANA, this 11th day of January, 2002. /s/ Eldon E. Fallon UNITED
   STATES DISTRICT COURT JUDGE - 4 -
