http://www.ows.doleta.gov/foreign/h-1b.asp

   Link to DOL Home Page
   Foreign Labor Certification
   Photos representing the workforce - Digital Imagery© copyright 2001
   PhotoDisc, Inc.

   U.S. Department of Labor Seal
   www.ows.doleta.gov
   [Skip to Content]  Frequently Asked Questions  |  Site map



       OWS > FLC > H-1B Specialty (Professional) Workers


   H-1B Specialty (Professional) Workers

                                              On This Page



                                                * Qualifying Criteria
                                                * Process for Filing
                                                Forms & Instructions
                                                Program Regulations & FAQs

   The H-1B program allows an employer to temporarily employ a foreign
   worker in the U.S. on a nonimmigrant basis in a specialty occupation or
   as a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability. A specialty
   occupation requires the theoretical and practical application of a body
   of specialized knowledge and a bachelor's degree or the equivalent in
   the specific specialty (e.g., engineering, mathematics, physical
   sciences, computer sciences, medicine and health care, education,
   biotechnology, and business specialties, etc.).
   Current law limits the number of foreign workers who may be issued a
   visa or otherwise be provided H-1B status to 195,000 through 2003.
   Absent other congressional action, the cap will return to 65,000 in
   2004.
   An H-1B certification is valid for the period of employment indicated
   on the Labor Condition Application (LCA), specifically the Form ETA
   9035, for up to three years. However, a foreign worker can be in H-1B
   status for a maximum continuous period of six years. After the H-1B
   expires, the foreign worker must remain outside the U.S. for one year
   before another H-1B petition can be approved. Certain foreign workers
   with labor certification applications or immigrant visa petitions in
   process for extended periods may stay in H-1B status beyond the normal
   six-year limitation, in one-year increments. For more information on
   extended stay possibilities, see the INS website.
   Qualifying Criteria
   To hire a foreign worker on an H-1B visa, the job must be a
   professional position that requires, at a minimum, a bachelor's degree
   in the field of specialization. The occupation for which the H-1B
   classification is sought must also normally require a bachelors degree
   as a minimum for entry into the occupation.
   Each employer seeking an H-1B nonimmigrant in a specialty occupation,
   or as a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability, has several
   responsibilities:
    1. The employer shall submit a completed Labor Condition Application
       (LCA) on Form ETA 9035 in the manner prescribed by the regulations.
       By completing and signing the LCA, the employer agrees to several
       attestations regarding an employer's responsibilities, including
       the wages, working conditions, and benefits to be provided to the
       H-1B nonimmigrant; these attestations are specifically identified
       and incorporated by reference in the LCA, as well as being set
       forth in full on Form ETA 9035 cover pages, Form ETA 9035CP.
       The LCA contains additional attestations for certain H-1B-dependent
       employers and employers found to have willfully violated the H-1B
       program requirements. These attestations impose additional
       obligations to recruit U.S. workers, to offer positions to U.S.
       workers who are equally or better qualified than the H-1B
       nonimmigrant(s), and to avoid the displacement of U.S. workers
       (either in the employer's workforce or in the workforce of a second
       employer with whom the H-1B nonimmigrant(s) is placed). These
       additional attestations are specifically identified and
       incorporated by reference in the LCA, as well as being set forth in
       full on Form ETA 9035CP. If ETA approves the LCA, a copy of the
       submitted LCA will be returned to the employer.
    2. The employer shall make the LCA and necessary supporting
       documentation available for public examination at the employers
       principal place of business in the U.S. or the place of employment
       within one working day after the date on which the LCA is filed
       with ETA.
    3. The employer may then submit a copy of the approved LCA to INS with
       a completed petition (INS Form I-129) requesting H-1B
       classification.
    4. The employer shall not allow the nonimmigrant worker to begin work
       until INS grants the worker authorization to work in the U.S. for
       that employer or, in the case of a nonimmigrant who is already in
       H-1B status and is changing employment, to another H-1B employer
       until the new employer files a petition supported by a certified
       LCA.
    5. The employer shall maintain documentation to meet its burden of
       proof with respect to the validity of the statements made in its
       LCA and the accuracy of information provided, in the event that
       such statement or information is challenged. The employer shall
       also maintain such documentation at its principal place of business
       in the U.S. and shall make such documentation available to DOL for
       inspection and copying upon request.

   Process for Filing
    1. H-1B status requires a sponsoring U.S. employer; an individual
       cannot gain H-1B status on his/her own. First, the employer
       completes preliminary actions prior to filing an application with
       the DOL. It must determine the prevailing wage for the position
       using one of three sources:
          + requesting that a SWA prevailing wage determination be made;
          + using a survey conducted by an independent authoritative
            source; or
          + using another legitimate source of information.
            (i.e.bargaining agreement).
       Then the employer must also determine the actual wage for the
       position and must pay at least the higher of the two wage rates.
       The actual wage is the rate paid by the employer to other
       individuals with similar experience and qualifications.
       The employer also must inform workers of the intent to hire a
       foreign worker by posting the completed LCA, Form ETA 9035 for the
       position. The posting must occur within the 30 day period preceding
       the date that the form is submitted to the DOL. Posting may occur
       in one of two methods: hard copy or electronic notice. The hard
       copy notice must be given to the bargaining representative for
       workers in the occupation or, if there is no bargaining
       representative, be posted for 10 consecutive days in at least two
       conspicuous locations at each place of employment where any H-1B
       nonimmigrant will be employed. The electronic notice must be
       distributed at each place of employment where any H-1B nonimmigrant
       will be employed. Distribution can be by whatever means the
       employer normally communicates with its employees (e-mail, bulletin
       board, and home webpage).
    2. LCAs can be filed in one of two methods: either by facsimile
       transmission or by U.S. mail.
          + Facsimile transmission (FAX). If the employer submits the LCA
            (Form ETA 9035) by FAX, the transmission shall be made to
            1-800-397-0478 (regardless of the intended place of employment
            for the H-1B nonimmigrant(s)). The employer submitting an LCA
            via FAX shall not use the FAX number assigned to an ETA
            regional office, but shall use only the 1-800-397-0478 number
            designated for this purpose. The cover pages to Form ETA 9035
            (Form ETA 9035CP) should NOT BE FAXed with the Form ETA 9035.
          + U.S. Mail. If the employer submits the LCA (Form ETA 9035) by
            U.S. Mail, the LCA shall be sent to the ETA application
            processing center at the following address:
            ETA Application Processing Center
            P.O. Box 13640
            Philadelphia, PA 19101.
          + All matters other than the processing of LCAs (prevailing wage
            challenges by employers) are within the jurisdiction of the
            regional certifying officers in the  regional offices.
    3. LCAs will be returned not certified to the employer or the
       employer's authorized agent or representative, when either or both
       of the following two conditions exist:
         1. When the Form ETA 9035 is not properly completed. Examples of
            a Form ETA 9035 which is not properly completed include
            instances where the employer has failed to mark the
            attestations; or where the employer has failed to state the
            occupational classification, number of nonimmigrants sought,
            wage rate, period of intended employment, place of intended
            employment, or prevailing wage and its source; or where the
            application does not contain the signature of the employer or
            the employer's authorized agent or representative.
         2. When the Form ETA 9035 contains obvious inaccuracies. An
            obvious inaccuracy will be found if the employer files an
            application in error, -- where the Administrator, Wage and
            Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration  has
            notified ETA in writing that the employer has been
            disqualified from employing H-1B nonimmigrants under section
            212(n) of the INA. Examples of other obvious inaccuracies
            include stating a wage rate below the Fair Labor Standards
            Act's minimum wage; submitting an LCA earlier than six months
            before the beginning date of the period of intended
            employment; identifying a wage rate which is below the
            prevailing wage listed on the LCA; or identifying wage range
            where the bottom of the range is lower than the prevailing
            wage listed on the LCA.
    4. If the LCA is returned for correction, the employer may correct or
       resubmit their original application. Any resubmissions will be
       processed as if they are new requests (first come, first served
       basis).
    5. Upon DOL certification, the employer files the INS Form I-129, the
       required filing fee and other required supporting documentation,
       including the approved LCA to the INS. Unless specifically exempt
       under the law, the employer must pay INS filing fees.
    6. Employer must also keep the LCA in its public file and provide a
       copy to workers whom the LCA supports their visa.

   Forms & Instructions
   Form ETA 9035
   Form ETA 9035 CP
   Program Regulations & FAQs
   20 CFR 655.700 - .899
   FAQs


     LCA Online
     Application
     About FLC
                    Mission
                    Organization
                    How do I...
                    Policy/Regs

     Hiring Foreign
     Workers
                     Permanent
                    H-1B
                    H-1C
                    H-2A
                    H-2B
                    D-1

     Forms and
     Instructions
                    ETA 9035
                    ETA 750
                    All Forms

     Prevailing Wage
     Information
                    Online Wage
                    Library
                    Adverse Wage
                    Effect
                    OES

     Processing Times
      LCA Numbers   LCA Numbers

     Related Links

     Contacts

   Back to Top Back to Top
                                                         www.doleta.gov
     ___________________________________________________________________

          Contact Us | Privacy and Security Statement | Disclaimers
