http://marsnet.jpl.nasa.gov/current-status/current-status.html



   [title-banner1.JPG]
                      Logos

      ---------- [status-title.JPG]  ----------Last Updated: Nov. 24, 1999

   [gateway-sm.JPG] [USEMAP:buttons1.JPG]




   Mars Network is currently at the stage of a conceptual study for
   potential future implementation as a project within the Mars Surveyor
   Program. As such, Mars Network has been working three fronts:


   Detailed design of the prototype Microsat.
   Design of the overall Mars Network architecture.
   Creation of a public, virtual presence interface for Mars Network - a
   "Mars Exploration Gateway"


                 Detailed design of the prototype Microsat.

   Detailed design of the prototype Microsat has been focusing on the
   design of the in situ communications payload, the concept for how the
   payload would be operated once in Mars orbit, and specification of the
   requirements that the payload and its operation levy on the Mars
   Surveyor Program's design of the micro-spacecraft bus. Work has also
   been underway to support selection of a contractor for development of
   this micro-spacecraft bus.

              Design of the overall Mars Network architecture.

   Design of the overall Mars Network architecture has been focusing on
   determination of Mars exploration element communications and navigation
   requirements as a function of time. Consistent with these requirements,
   Mars Network has been studying how best to deploy and upgrade the
   Microsats and MARSats as a function of time. Examples of the
   architecture design considerations inherent in these studies include
   such things as the appropriate orbits for each of the Network elements,
   the number of simultaneous users and frequency channels for the
   transceivers, hailing protocols between Mars Network and exploration
   elements, the need for satellite cross-links, and the concept for how
   the constellation will be operated and maintained.


   Creation of a public, virtual presence interface for Mars Network -- a
                         "Mars Exploration Gateway"

   [gateway-chart-sm.JPG]

   Whatever its ultimate architecture, Mars Network would essentially be a
   "pipeline" through which the other Mars exploration elements could
   return their data to Earth. The increased bandwidth and connectivity
   associated with this "pipeline" would enable greater information flow
   to the public for the purpose of engaging them in the Mars exploration
   adventure. To this end, Mars Network is coordinating with the Mars
   projects, JPL's Outreach Office, and JPL's Commercial Technology
   Programs Office to create an interactive, Internet-based "Mars
   Exploration Gateway" -- a virtual-presence interface with the Mars
   Network for the public. In so doing, Mars Network is planning to
   explore partnerships with industry, academia, and others to enhance the
   quality and accessibility of this interface. Mars Network's ultimate
   goal is the creation of a virtual gateway through which the average
   individual can pass into and explore the Mars frontier - a first stop
   on the Interplanetary Internet.



                         Last updated: Nov. 24, 1999

                            &COPY; Copyright 1999
