http://www.energy.cted.wa.gov/Papers/Convergence.htm


           Convergence:  Natural Gas and Electricity in Washington

   A Survey of the Pacific Northwest Natural Gas Industry on the Eve of a
                       New Era in Electric Generation



                                [OTEDlgo.gif]

                                 Martha Choe
                                   Director


                              David Warren, P.E.
                     Assistant Director for Energy Policy

                                   May 2001


                               [blueband.gif]
   This report examines trends in the demand for and supply of natural gas
   for Washington, and the Pacific Northwest, in light of current plans to
   construct several thousand megawatts of new natural gas-fired electric
   generating capacity. Construction of even a fraction of the projects
   that have been proposed for Washington, Oregon, and Idaho will greatly
   increase the region's demand for natural gas. This raises serious
   questions about the ability of the natural gas delivery system to meet
   this new demand without adverse consequences for existing natural gas
   consumers. The extreme price events of the last year, caused in part by
   a sudden, large increase in consumption of natural gas for electricity
   generation, provide a cautionary example of the strong forces that can
   be unleashed by unplanned demand growth.

   Convergence:  Natural Gas and Electricity in Washington is available
   for downloading as a Microsoft Word document. If you would like the
   document in another format, or to receive a printed copy via U.S. Mail,
   please send e-mail to karend@ep.cted.wa.gov.  If you have questions
   about the report, please contact Arne Olson at (360) 956-2022.

   Download Report

   View press release

                  Energy Policy Home Page | OTED Home Page

                               [blueband.gif]

   This page was last modified October 25, 2001 .

   CTED Energy Policy Group
   925 Plum Street SE, Building #4
   PO Box 43173
   Olympia, Washington 98504-3173
   (360) 956-2096 (phone)
   (360) 956-2180 (fax)

   Send comments to wepg@ep.cted.wa.gov
