http://www.cityofhouston.gov/mayoroffice/techinit.html

   City of Houston

   Home

       Services

               About Houston

                            Mayor's Office

                                          Elected Officials

                                                           City Desk

   Mayor's Office > Technology Initiatives


   Technology Initiatives

      TECHNOLOGY IN HOUSTON
      Houston relies on technology for everything from entertainment and
      information to business and critical services. Because of this, Mayor
      Lee P. Brown has made a commitment to developing technology both as an
      industry and as a resource for everyday City activities. Under the
      direction of Mayor Brown, the Mayor's Technology Steering Committee
      (TSC) and the City's Chief Information Officer (CIO), the City of
      Houston has recently undertaken some significant technology
      initiatives: the 3-1-1 Houston Service Helpline, SimHouston, the
      eGovernment Center and other improvements.

      3-1-1 HOUSTON SERVICE HELPLINE
      The City of Houston recently launched the new 3-1-1 Houston Service
      Helpline. This consolidated call center provides Houstonians with one
      easy-to-remember telephone number for quick, simple, reliable access to
      City services, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This improvement makes
      City government more accessible and responsive to City residents.

      The main component of the 3-1-1 Houston Service Helpline is the
      three-digit phone number, accessible from within the Houston city
      limits. From traffic fines and sewer concerns to pothole problems and
      neighborhood complaints, Houstonians can call 3-1-1 and speak to one of
      our highly trained customer service representatives. From outside the
      City of Houston you must call (713) 837-0311. In addition, Houstonians
      can access this helpful service via fax, at (713) 837-0210, and e-mail,
      at 311@cityofhouston.net. A service request form is available online at
      www.cityofhouston.gov.

      The 3-1-1 Houston Service Helpline puts City government at your
      fingertips - one call, fax or e-mail and you can get answers, find the
      right person, or have your City service problems solved.

      SIMHOUSTON
      In an effort to bridge the digital divide and make technology available
      to every citizen, no matter what his or her socio-economic situation,
      the City of Houston launched SimHouston. Produced by the Houston-based
      company Internet Access Technologies, Inc., SimHouston offers a suite
      of virtual desktop software applications that will allow every citizen
      of Houston to have access to the Internet, to create, modify, store and
      send documents, and to have an e-mail address - all at no cost to the
      user.

      Any resident who wants free access to this advanced technology can
      simply use their Houston Library System Power Card to open his or her
      virtual desktop over any Internet connection. SimHouston has been
      incorporated initially at City libraries and may eventually be
      available at more City facilities, such as parks and multi-purpose
      facilities, to increase accessibility to the largest number of
      citizens. This system truly bridges the digital divide that has kept
      some of our citizens from participating in the information technology
      explosion.

      EGOVERNMENT CENTER The Internet is one of the tools Houstonians use
      daily to get things done. So much so that Houston is one of the top
      cities in the country in both technological advancement and access to
      the Internet. The City of Houston, in a quest to provide citizens and
      visitors alike with quality service, has launched the eGovernment
      Center. The eGovernment Center can be accessed at
      www.cityofhouston.gov.

      The eGovernment Center is part of Mayor Brown's Neighborhood Oriented
      Government concept, one of the five guiding principles of his
      administration. The Center provides citizens access to City government
      from home, 'Online instead of Inline.'

      At the City of Houston we continually strive to improve the delivery of
      City services and programs as well as identify new ways to serve you
      better. Through the tools and information offered online, you have the
      option to interact with the City 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In an
      era where technology is the norm instead of the exception, providing
      these services online makes sense.

      CITY IMPROVEMENTS THROUGH TECHNOLOGY
      In addition to the eGovernment Center - which you can use to pay
      parking, traffic and non-traffic tickets, find out about local Houston
      events, contact the City government that serves you, create and edit
      documents, and where you will soon be able to pay water bills online -
      the City has also implemented technology initiatives as a part of Mayor
      Brown's Guiding Principle of Continuous Management Improvement. These
      initiatives include updates to the City's technology infrastructure,
      standardizing the City's e-mail systems and initiating eProcurement.
      They are all designed to keep the City up to date on ways to improve
      services to Houstonians.

      Mayor Brown formed the TSC in November 1998. The TSC's challenge was to
      develop a technology vision and strategy and implement it by:
        * Managing and directing the City's information technology (IT)
          services and providing the most innovative and cost effective
          technology future for the City of Houston;
        * Managing and directing the development and implementation of a
          Strategic Information Technology Plan (SITP) for the City as a
          whole and for individual departments, with the purpose of enhancing
          the use of information systems and related technologies within the
          City; and
        * Establishing standards for acquisition and/or development of
          computer systems based on the SITP.

      In October 2000, Mayor Brown filled the office of CIO. The CIO is
      responsible for providing strategic vision and implementing all
      citywide IT initiatives. The CIO also works with the TSC to provide
      oversight over IT initiatives which meet department-specific missions.

      Underway are many other projects that provide direct access to services
      and information. They include:
        * Government to consumer (G2C) communication: The City has begun
          implementing citizen-centric eGovernment opportunities. These
          opportunities are met with applications that provide direct
          services to citizens and constituents over the City's Internet
          portal. The services include applications that provide monetary
          transactions as well as interactive sharing of information between
          City departments and citizens.
        * Automated Meter Reading (AMR): Mobile units currently travel
          Houston's neighborhoods and electronically read meters. AMR gives
          accurate meter reads, eliminates estimated bills, and eliminates
          access to private property.
        * ¨ Handheld E-Ticket Program: The City has formed a partnership for
          the development of a solution to streamline the ticketing process
          for the Houston Police Department (HPD). HPD officers currently
          write approximately 800,000 tickets a year, with many procedures
          involved in the processing of each ticket. The solution under
          development has been created to facilitate these procedures as well
          as give police officers portable access to reliable information.
          Features include the ability to:

        * Scan a driver's license with a magnetic stripe reader;
        * Wirelessly query a database for real-time information;
        * Gather required citation date and manipulate it within the handheld
          device;
        * Capture an electronic signature; Print a ticket(s) for the
          offender;
        * Assemble all of these items on a single-piece, small, rugged
          handheld device; and,
        * Quickly download the electronic ticket information to a host
          system, providing the ability to print a ticket for data entry and
          Municipal Courts and deliver an electronic record of the ticket to
          the Municipal Courts' host computer.

        Online access to plans and permits: Citizens are able to make online
      payments of Commercial and Residential Buildings, Plumbing and Fire
      Sprinkler Systems, Sidewalk/Driveway/Curb & Gutter/Culvert/Parking Lot,
      Electrical, and HVAC permits. In addition, they can make online
      submittal of plats for Development Review Committee (DRC) review when
      there is development through new construction or enlargement of a
   building, structure or improvement

     Payment of water bills: Online utility bill presentment and payment
   offers another convenient alternative for paying water and wastewater
   bills.

     Automated ticket issuance to local events with online payment: Select
   and pay for the event of your choice online and get your tickets in the
   mail or placed on hold.

     Consolidated emergency dispatch: The Houston Emergency Center will
   serve as the new home for emergency dispatchers from the Houston Fire
   and Police Departments, as well as 9-1-1 Emergency Network call takers.
   The new systems' most significant benefit will be the common protocol
   for interagency transaction exchange between 9-1-1, Police, Fire, EMS
   and Emergency Management. The system also includes interfaces for
   connections to State agencies, Harris County Sheriff's Department,
   METRO and TranStar.

     Online access to numerous applications, forms, and information
   including maps to City facilities, educational programs and event
   calendars: From the eGovernment Center citizens can download documents
   and reports, such as planning documents from the Planning and
   Development Department, or City employment applications. Other items
   available online are: the Houston Public Library's archive of books,
   periodicals, and other documents; maps that highlight the physical
   locations of City offices and facilities, provide information about
   where the facilities are located, what services are provided at each
   facility, and instructions of how to reach the facility; and
   information regarding City-sponsored educational programs.

     Online information about programs and initiatives in the Houston
   Public Library, as well as the Public Works and Engineering Department,
   Health and Human Services Department, Parks and Recreation Department,
   and Police Department: Long-range plans for these departments including
   enabling electronic payment of such items as library books, purchase of
   GIS information, requests for vital statistics information, physician
   access to the City's Immunization Registry, make reservations and
   registrations for various park facilities, and requests for official
   records.

     A new Municipal Courts online system that will include updated
   technology, organization, and process improvements: An "eCourts" will
   allow citizens, attorneys and bond companies to post bond and send and
   receive relevant information.

   Other technology initiatives are underway to improve general workforce
   optimization and process efficiency. These include:
     * Windows 2000 upgrades;
     * Internet appliances, a lower cost hardware for Internet access;
     * Blackberry email/pager and IPAQs (personal digital assistant
       devices) utilization to increase City employees' productivity when
       away from the office;
     * IP Telephony implementation which allows voice and data access
       across the same network, improves data/voice quality and reduces
       maintenance costs;
     * IP/TV implementation will allow internal training programs to be
       accessible via the desktop and videoconferencing between City
       departments;
     * PC upgrades;
     * Implementation of e-Procurement (G2B, Government to business);
     * Improved Intranet technology;
     * Improved data management systems (data mart, Oracle DB, e-mail,
       assignment tracking, document management); and,
     * Updated standards and policies.

   To accomplish these goals, significant infrastructure improvements are
   being undertaken. Future plans for the City of Houston include:
     * Use of Application Service Providers (ASPs);
     * Increased use of handheld devices;
     * Geographical Information Systems (GIS) consolidation;
     * Replacement of legacy systems in departments with customer-centric
       web based systems; and,
     * Integration of decision support systems.

   Upon completion of most of these projects, Houston will further cement
   its reputation as an innovative technological leader among cities.
   Technology companies are already asking the City of Houston, "What will
   cities want?" As new technologies are developed to address specific
   issues, our City can be proud of having such a significant role in
   determining the future direction of new technology.

   In fact, Houston has already been recognized as a leader in adapting
   technology to municipal use. The City has been chosen as a finalist
   from among approximately 400 contestants in the "2001 Best of the Web"
   contest and ranked 5th in the "2001 Digital Cities Survey" which
   recognized the City of Houston's outstanding achievements in
   technology. Both awards were sponsored by the Center for Digital
   Government, a national decision support, research and advisory
   institute.

   "Bottom line, these are steps in my effort to use cutting-edge
   technology to bring the City's systems into the 21st Century. Utilizing
   the latest technology will help us improve management, increase
   cost-effectiveness, and improve the level of service delivered to our
   citizens."

     -Mayor Lee P. Brown



   Help | Privacy Policy | Site Index
                                                                Texas Online

             COH welcomes your input on how to improve this site

   www.cityofhouston.gov
