http://www.tfhrc.gov/focus/nov01/datapave.htm

                                       Skip Repetitive Links November 2001
   Focus Newsletter

    Reporting on innovative products and strategies for building better,
                                 safer roads

   DataPave 3.0 Arkansas paves the way to smoother roads Conference
   features concrete solutions Saving Superpave September 11 and Beyond
   International congress to examine new challenges for winter
   Highway Technology Calendar
   Comments? Questions? Please feel free to contact us.
   Past issues of Focus
   Go to the TFHRC Web site.

   U.S. Dept. of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration

     DataPave 3.0: Your Ticket to Pavement Performance Data

     Accessing reliable national pavement performance data just became
     easier. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) is releasing the
     updated DataPave 3.0 software this month, which contains data
     collected through the Long Term Pavement Performance (LTPP) program.
     For more than a decade, the LTPP program has collected data from
     over 2,500 test sections located on about 930 sites at inservice
     highways throughout the United States and Canada. In an effort to
     provide potential users with better access to this data, the
     DataPave program was developed and first released in 1997. "This was
     the first time that the LTPP data was made available to a wide range
     of people," says Kurt Dunn of FHWA. Now DataPave 3.0 has been issued
     to facilitate improved access to even more LTPP data.

     The updated user-friendly set of CD-ROMs includes pavement
     performance monitoring, material testing, climatic, traffic,
     maintenance, rehabilitation, seasonal, and inventory data.
     Ultimately, these data will serve as a valuable decision-support
     tool for engineers as they work to improve the design, construction,
     maintenance, and rehabilitation of pavements.

     The new version of DataPave provides desktop access to most of the
     LTPP data collected between 1987 and May 2001. In addition to an
     increase in available data, DataPave 3.0 contains graph notes to
     distinguish raw data from computed data, enhanced data selection
     filters, and improvements that facilitate the extraction of
     site-specific records.

     If a user wishes to analyze any of the small fraction of LTPP data
     not included in the software, DataPave 3.0 can help the user
     identify the specific data and prepare a request for submission to
     an LTPP Customer Support Service representative.

     In addition to the actual data from LTPP experiments, DataPave
     provides users with all of the necessary tools to examine and work
     with the data. Through the DataPave Section Selection process,
     DataPave users can choose test sections based on LTPP experimental
     test criteria (surface thickness, average daily traffic, or annual
     precipitation), or by locating sections on a map of the United
     States and Canada. The data can then be displayed in several ways.
     The "Map module" displays information for all LTPP sites in a
     Geographical Information System form, whereas the "Section
     Presentation module" provides specific information about the
     location, type of experiment, pavement layer, and selected
     falling-weight deflectometer profiles. Another alternative is the
     "Chart/Trend module," which presents time histories of several key
     distress indicators, such as spalling, rutting, and fatigue
     cracking. The "Data Base Exploration and Extraction module" allows
     the extraction of tables and fields for selected sections and
     provides several useful tools, such as a keyword search, SQL
     (structured query language) option, codes listing, and the LTPP data
     request form. DataPave 3.0 also provides online help for users.

     The increased efficiency and usefulness of the new software will
     expand LTPP data applications among highway agencies and university
     faculty and students, as well as industry researchers and
     practitioners throughout North America and the world.

     For more information about DataPave 3.0 and the LTPP program, or to
     obtain a copy of DataPave 3.0, visit the LTPP Web site at
     www.tfhrc.gov/pavement/ltpp/datapave.htm, or contact LTPP Customer
     Support Service at 865-481-2967 (email: LTPPINFO@fhwa.dot.gov).

     International Contest on LTPP Data Analysis
     FHWA, in association with the American Society of Civil Engineers
     (ASCE), is launching the third International Contest on LTPP Data
     Analysis. The contest is designed to encourage university students
     and professors from around the world to use the LTPP database for
     research, class projects, and Master's and Doctoral theses.

     This year's contest offers four categories: Undergraduate Students,
     Graduate Students, Partnership (for students working with a public
     or private organization), and Curriculum (for professors who
     integrate the LTPP database into their class curriculum). In
     addition to receiving a prize, award winners will be recognized at
     an ASCE meeting and the Transportation Research Board annual
     meeting.

     The deadline for submission of papers is June 1, 2002. For more
     information about the contest, visit the LTPP Web Site at
     www.tfhrc.gov/pavement/ltpp/datapave.htm.

     Back to top

              ..................................................

     Articles in this issue:

     DataPave 3.0: Your ticket to pavement performance data

     Arkansas paves the way to smoother roads

     Conference features concrete solutions for a new century

     Saving Superpave

     September 11 and Beyond: Highway Agencies Respond to Keep America
     Mobile and Secure

     Highway technology calendar

     International congress to examine new challenges for winter road
     maintenance

     Back to top

             ..................................................
                          Contact Us | Past Issues
               TFHRC Website | FHWA Website | U.S. DOT Website
