http://nsnfp.inel.gov/mission.asp

   Home
   Home - Mission - Fact Sheets - Program Drivers - Program Documents
   SNF Data - What is Spent Nuclear Fuel? - Points of Contact
   Calendar - Lessons Learned - Related Links - Newsletters

   Home > Mission
   [dot.gif]


   Mission of the National Spent Nuclear Fuel Program

   Our mission is to safely and efficiently manage Department of Energy
   (DOE)-owned Spent Nuclear Fuel (SNF) and prepare it for disposal.

   In completing this mission, the DOE Office of Environmental Management,
   while working with stakeholders, will protect the environment and the
   health and safety of workers and the public while fully complying with
   applicable Federal, State, Tribal, and local laws, orders, and
   regulations.

   The scope of the SNF program to which these requirements apply is
   defined by what constitutes DOE-owned SNF as well as the DOE programs
   and facilities needed to satisfactorily complete the mission.

   DOE will manage material as SNF if it is irradiated fuel or targets
   containing uranium, plutonium, or thorium that is permanently withdrawn
   from a nuclear reactor or other neutron irradiation facility following
   irradiation, the constituent elements of which have not been separated
   by reprocessing. Such materials include essentially intact fuel and
   disassembled or damaged units and pieces, and the following:
     * Irradiated reactor fuel, production targets, slugs, and blankets
       that are presently in storage or that will be accepted for storage
       at DOE facilities
     * Debris, small pieces of fuel, and cut up assemblies that contain
       reportable quantities of uranium, thorium, or plutonium subject to
       evaluation of their waste classification.

   A large number of different SNF types are stored within the DOE
   complex. Of the different types, several categories of DOE-owned SNF
   may be defined. These are:
     * Materials production fuels
       This category includes those nuclear fuels, drivers, and targets
       that historically have been processed by the DOE to recover
       valuable materials. Examples of SNF existing today include the
       N-reactor fuel that is stored at Hanford and the K/L/P reactor fuel
       and targets that are stored at Savannah River.
     * Naval nuclear propulsion fuel
       Like the first category, Naval nuclear propulsion SNF has
       historically been processed to recover valuable materials.
       Following the phaseout of processing, however, some Naval SNF
       remains in storage at the Idaho National Engineering and
       Environmental Laboratory (INEEL), and additional quantities will be
       placed into storage as the fuel is withdrawn from the vessels.
     * Research reactor fuel
       DOE-sponsored nuclear research activities, both in the U.S. and
       overseas. SNF from research reactors is currently stored at a
       number of DOE sites (primarily Hanford, Idaho, and Savannah River)
       and at numerous (primarily active) university and government
       research reactor sites within the U.S. Additional research reactor
       SNF is being returned to the U.S. from foreign research reactors.
       Examples of research reactor SNF being stored within the DOE
       complex include the Experimental Breeder Reactor - II (EBR-II) fuel
       at Idaho, the Molten Salt Reactor Experiment (MSRE) fuel at Oak
       Ridge, and the High Flux Beam Reactor (HFBR) fuel at the Brookhaven
       National Laboratory.
     * Specialty fuels
       A small quantity of SNF is currently stored within the DOE complex
       from small, specialty type reactors. An example is the SNF from the
       space program (i.e., SNAP fuel).
     * Commercial nuclear power reactor fuels
       Some SNF from early (or demonstration) commercial power reactors
       (Shippingport, Peach Bottom, Fort St. Vrain, etc.) is stored within
       the DOE complex, primarily at Idaho and West Valley. Also included
       in this category is the Three Mile Island Unit 2 (TMI) fuel debris
       that is stored at Idaho.

   DOE facilities that come under the SNF program include those
   conditioning and storage facilities within which DOE-owned SNF
   currently resides and new facilities that are brought online to affect
   the mission of providing safe, interim storage.

   Examples of existing facilities at different sites include:

     Hanford
     105-K East and West (wet basins)
     Idaho
     Chemical Processing Plant (CPP)-603, CPP-666, Test Area North
     (TAN)-607 (wet basins) CPP-749, CPP-Irradiated Fuel Storage Facility
     (IFSF) (dry vaults)
     Oak Ridge
     High Flux Isotope Reactor (HFIR), Bulk Shielding Reactor (BSR), and
     Tower Shielding Facility (TSF) reactor storage (wet) Buildings 7503,
     7823A, 7827, and 7329 (dry storage)
     Savannah River
     Receiving Basin for Offsite Fuels (RBOF), K/L/P reactor (wet basins)

   [dot.gif]

   Information Owner: Sheryl Morton - NSNFP Staff, slm@inel.gov,
   208-526-8247.
   Web Contact: Dean Frickey, hmf@inel.gov, 208-526-0680.

   Date Last Modified: Friday, October 27, 2000
