http://km.gov/cop/cop.html

   [km-gov-title.gif] FirstGov - Your First Click to the U.S. Government
        Welcome to KM.GOV Hot and Late Breaking Knowledge Management News
   Working Group Members Working Group Documents Special Interest Groups
   Knowledge Management Resources and Links Knowledge Management Events
   and Conferences [e-KM.gif] Federal Chief Information Officers' Council

    Communities of Practice Content Management Government-wide Communities
      of Practice Knowledge Management Education, Learning and Development
      KM.GOV Content and KM Technology Knowledge Management Stories Public
                                                       Policy and Outreach


   [transparent.gif]

Purpose

   The Federal Chief Information Officers Council established the CoP SIG
   under the sponsorship of the Knowledge Management Working Group as an
   interagency group to promote the benefits and advance the
   state-of-the-practice of CoPs among Federal organizations, customers
   and partners.  The CoP SIG serves as a network of people interested in
   learning about and/or applying CoPs as a means to address compelling
   business needs within their organizations.  The CoP SIG seeks to:
     * Collect, document and share good practices related to CoPs through
       site visits with public and private sector organizations.
     * Create and maintain a network for knowledge exchange on CoPs and
       build personal knowledge.
     * Serve as a resource for the federal government on CoPs.
     * Act as a sounding board for CoP SIG members, and use its collective
       wisdom to provide insights for success.

   CoP SIG meetings are held every other month and are hosted by CoP SIG
   members.  Meetings focus on activities such as site visits, expert
   panel presentations, and demonstrations of successful CoP tools and
   practices.

Contact

   Mike Burk, Chair
   202.366.8035
   mike.burk@fhwa.dot.gov

Documents

   Primer on Communities of Practice
   February 23, 2000, Minutes
   March 8, 2000, Minutes
   May 17, 2000, Minutes (PDF)
   Caucus Systems Site Visit (PDF)
   October 19, 2000, Minutes
   World Bank Site Visit
   Establishing Communities of Practice
   CoP Pilot Concept Image
   February 14, 2001, Minutes
   Case Study: FHWA Resource Center Expertise Locator (MS Word)
   Case Study: FMCSA 2010 Strategy and Performance Planning Community of
   Practice (CoP) (MS Word)
   Case Study:  Re:NEPA Community of Practice (CoP) (MS Word)
   So you think you want to be a community? (MS Word)
   FHWA Building Communities of Practice for Knowledge Exchange (PDF
   poster)
   March 28, 2001 Minutes (MS Word)
   Good Practices for Starting a CoP (MS Word)
   Tentative schedule for the CoP Special Interest Group, May 2000 -
   January 2001 (MS Word)
   Online Communities: designing usability, supporting sociability
   Dr. Jenny Preece, University of Maryland, Baltimore County

   The next meeting:

   KM Working Group Calendar
