http://cra.nci.nih.gov/1_communicate_research/index.htm


   [nav_top.gif]
   Communicating Cancer to the Public
   Accomplishments
   Types of Cancer
   Cancer Trials
   Future Plans
   Printer Friendly [cleardot.gif] Cancer Research. Because Lives Depend
   On It [cleardot.gif] [link_main.gif]
   Communitcating Cancer to the Public
   [cleardot.gif]
   [cleardot.gif]
   Keeping The Public in Mind When Communicating About Cancer Research


                                                            [cleardot.gif]


      [more_about.gif]
   [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif]
   • Keeping The Public in Mind When Communicating About Cancer Research
   • Understanding Reports on Cancer Risks
   [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif]

                                                            [cleardot.gif]

   Typically, people first learn about new health information through the
   media. Television, newspapers, and other forms of media "turn on the
   light" and encourage the public to seek additional information from
   trusted sources. By appreciating the way the public perceives,
   processes, and interprets information, health communicators can more
   effectively develop messages and materials that enhance public
   understanding of medical research. The National Cancer Institute's
   (NCI) Office of Cancer Communications often conducts qualitative and
   quantitative research to gain a better understanding of how to present
   scientific information in a way that enhances public understanding. The
   following bullets are excerpts of some of NCI's research findings.
   Overall, medical research is seen as equal to or slightly more
   important than several other national issues such as making sure all
   Americans have health insurance, improving education, substance abuse
   prevention, and protecting the environment.

   •  High prevalence, likelihood of death, and the occurrence of great
   pain and suffering are reasons the public may rank a disease higher on
   the research agenda. After cancer, AIDS and heart disease were ranked
   as the next most important diseases to study, followed by Alzheimer's
   disease and birth defects.

   Word choice greatly influences how the public listens and responds to
   information.

   •  People perceive nearly equivalent terms very differently. For
   example, biomedical research is viewed as the study of genes using
   laboratory microscopes, whereas medical research is seen as involving
   doctors and patients and disease prevention and treatment. People
   interpret the terms "risk" and "chance" differently. "Risk" implies
   danger and greater certainty that something bad will happen, while
   "chance" is a softer word that has both positive and negative
   connotations.

   •  Certain words and phrases that are commonly used by the scientific
   community and the media are not well understood by the public and often
   carry negative connotations. People have limited understanding of terms
   such as "clinical trial" and have negative reactions to terms such as
   "state-of-the-art." Most people have very little understanding of the
   terms "basic," "clinical," and "population-based research."

   •  People react negatively to terms they consider obscure or unclear,
   such as "fourfold" or "lifetime risk." Communicators should explain a
   health risk as clearly as possible because people are likely to dismiss
   confusing risk messages, using the ambiguity as an excuse for inaction.

   •  People react most positively to message concepts that emphasize that
   cancer affects everyone and that great progress is being made in cancer
   research.

   People have definite ideas about what they want to know about
   scientific research and cancer risk.

   •  People have a number of concerns about medical research, including
   the inadequacy of information that is disseminated to the public, the
   competition that occurs between researchers, and the perceived use of
   placebos in clinical trials.

   •  People want to know what the known risk factors are and what, if
   any, actions can be taken to reduce the risk. They also want to know if
   there is a certain level of exposure that puts them at risk. For
   example, people are interested in knowing how much of a particular
   ingredient they would have to eat to be at risk for developing a
   certain cancer.

   •  People want to know as clearly as possible who is getting a
   particular cancer and if there are any characteristics (e.g.,
   geographical location, occupation, etc.) that differentiate these
   patients from the general public.

   •  People want to know, in absolute numbers, how many people will get a
   particular cancer within a defined period of time.

   People have a difficult time understanding numerical estimates of risk.

   •  People find it difficult to assess the seriousness of risk estimates
   expressed in commonly used terms such as "1 [person] in 100." Most
   avoid applying the risk information to themselves, preferring to
   believe that the "one" is always someone else.

   •  People seem to work best with absolute numbers, ratios having small
   denominators (e.g., 1 in 10 vs. 1 in 250), or percentages of 100
   percent or less.

   •  If ratios are used, people have an easier time understanding
   information that is provided with common denominators.

   •  Most people appear comfortable with percentages expressing absolute
   risk (e.g., 75 percent of the U.S. population is at risk for this
   year), but have much more difficulty with percentages expressing
   relative (e.g., increasing, decreasing) risk.

   Communicators should give not only a risk estimate but also an
   explanation of how serious the risk is.

   •  People are looking to communicators to assist them in understanding
   the seriousness of the problem. For example, when they hear that 1 in
   250 people will get a particular kind of cancer, they wonder, "Is that
   a lot or a little?"

   •  People want to be given information in both relative and absolute
   terms. For example, when told that a risk may increase 1.9 times,
   people want to know what the initial risk is, as well as the
   implications of the increased risk.

   Visuals can be an effective way to communicate information about risk,
   particularly when accompanied by a brief written explanation.

   •  People understand risk information best when it is presented
   visually, along with a short explanation that focuses on the primary
   "take-home message."

   •  The message that a visual conveys needs to be immediately apparent
   because people will not spend much time analyzing health messages that
   do not jump out at them. The message can be especially effective when
   it is included as part of the visual itself.

   People want to hear what researchers know as well as what they don't
   know.

   •  People recognize a number of challenges that medical researchers
   face. Finding cures for cancer and AIDS, limited funding for research,
   prioritizing limited dollars, stringent government regulations for drug
   approval, politics, and ethical issues are recognized by the public as
   challenges for researchers. People appreciate that health experts do
   not know everything about a particular disease or health issue. In
   fact, communicating risk information with complete certainty often
   makes it less credible to the public.

   People are frustrated when a potential health hazard is announced and
   they are not told how to respond to it.

   •  People do not just want to be told about risk, they want to be told
   how to reduce it. A good risk message therefore does both. If science
   is unable to address the second aspect, people want to be told
   explicitly that there is no action they should take at the present
   time.

   •  Being told what action is needed to reduce their risk is empowering
   to people and makes them feel as if they have some control over their
   future.

   People want to know who conducted the research and how they can get
   more information.

   •  People have little knowledge of who supports and conducts cancer
   research (e.g., federal tax dollars, local cancer centers). Most people
   do not recognize that the process used to determine research priorities
   is either rational or scientific.

   •  People believe medical findings can be biased by financial and other
   self-interests, making them suspicious about the research and the way
   it was conducted.

   •  People are concerned when inadequate or incomplete information about
   research is disseminated to the public.

   People want to know when and how the results of cancer research will
   become relevant to human beings.

   •  People are frustrated by reports of risk information that have no
   practical implication for humans. They have less interest in research
   discoveries that occur many years prior to clinical applications and
   have relevance only to rats.

   •  If preliminary research findings are reported, people are interested
   in knowing the next steps toward direct application for human beings
   and how long these steps will take.

   The information included in this document is based on consumer research
   conducted by NCI. More in-depth information can be found in the reports
   listed below. For printed copies of the full reports, please email
   eisneree@occ.nci.nih.gov.

   •  The Public's Perception of Medical and Cancer Research: Results of a
   Focus Group Study

   •  The Public's Perception of Medical and Cancer Research: Quantitative
   Survey Results

   •  How the Public Perceives, Processes and Interprets Risk Information:
   Findings from Focus Group Research with the General Public
   [endmark.gif]

   [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif]
   [cleardot.gif]
   [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif] [cleardot.gif]
   [cleardot.gif]
