http://mirowww.jpl.nasa.gov/description.html

                     home MIRO: instrument: description


   Site Navigation


     Home


     MIRO Experiment


     Science Team


     Latest News


       March 2001
       Flight instrument completes EMI/EMC tests at JPL


       April 2001
       Optical Bench undergoes vibration tests


     Instrument


       Photos
       Description
       Engineering Team


     Related Links


       Rosetta Home Page

   The MIRO instrument consists of two heterodyne radiometers, one
   operating at millimeter wavelengths (190 GHz, ~1.6 mm) and one
   operating at submillimeter wavelengths (562 GHz, ~0.5 mm). The
   millimeter and submillimeter radiometers are both configured with a
   broadband continuum detector for the determination of the brightness
   temperature of the comet nucleus and the target asteroids. The
   submillimeter receiver is also configured as a very high resolution
   spectrometer.

   The instrument is comprised of four separate physical modules,
   interconnected with a wiring harness cable. The Sensor Unit includes
   the telescope, baseplate, and optical bench. The Sensor Unit is
   physically mounted on the spacecraft payload plane using the baseplate
   as the interface with the spacecraft. The MIRO telescope boresight
   direction is aligned to the ROSETTA payload line of sight. The optical
   bench is mounted to the underside of the baseplate, under the telescope
   and inside the spacecraft. The millimeter- and submillimeter-wave
   receiver front ends, the calibration mechanism, and the quasi-optics
   for coupling the telescope to the receivers are mounted on the optical
   bench. A Sensor Backend Electronics Unit contains the intermediate
   frequency processor (IFP), the phase lock loop, and frequency sources.
   It is mounted next to a louvered radiator internal to the spacecraft.
   The Electronics Unit contains the Chirp Transform Spectrometer (CTS),
   the instrument computer, and the power conditioning circuits. The Ultra
   Stable Oscillator Unit is a self contained thermally controlled
   oscillator.

   Last Updated: June 7, 2001
   Contact Website Administrator with questions.
