http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/cfocusarchive.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image

      [separator.jpg]

                          Consumer Focus Archive
   We added the Consumer Focus feature to our web site and we change it
   every month. Check out our previous issues.
   [separator.jpg]

   January 2002 - Handling Consumer Complaints
   Now that the holidays are over and all the presents are unwrapped, it's
   time to relax, right? But what if your expensive new electronic toy
   stopped working by New Year's Eve? Sometimes the consumer complaint
   process can seem complicated and intimidating. Well, you've come to the
   right place. We've put together all the information you need to get
   your complaint resolved quickly.

   December 2001 - Online Holiday Shopping
   Are you one of those folks hoping to avoid crowded malls during the
   holiday season? Fighting for parking spaces - looking for what you want
   and it's sold out - dealing with traffic just trying to get away from
   the mall .... it's enough to drive you insane! Let FCIC give you some
   peace of mind - here's some tips to help ensure that you'll have a
   happy and safe online shopping experience.

   November 2001 - Food For The Holidays
   Everyone enjoys this time of the year - as long as you're not a turkey.
   We all look forward to a hearty meal with our friends and family. But
   wouldn't it be great if traditional holiday fare could be both good for
   your health and pleasing to your palate? Read more for some tips and
   ideas to help you plan and prepare healthy, crowd-pleasing food.

   October 2001 - Osteoporosis - The Silent Thief
   Osteoporosis is a major health risk for 28 million Americans. It is
   characterized by low bone mass resulting in weakening of the skeleton
   and an increased susceptibility to fractures. Read on to find out risk
   factors, screening, and treatment options.

   September 2001 - Buying a Great Used Car
   So, you need a new set of wheels but you can't afford to shell out more
   than $20,000. What are your options? The good news is that there are
   lots of great deals available on "previously owned" cars. But be aware
   that buying a great used car requires navigating through a few special
   steps to insure that you will get the most reliable and safe car.
   Follow these tips and you'll be rolling down the highway with
   confidence.

   August 2001 - Final Arrangements
   Ever wonder what would happen to your family if something should happen
   to you? For the peace of mind of your loved ones, and maybe your own,
   right now is the right time to start making some decisions on what your
   final wishes are in case you're seriously incapacitated or should die
   suddenly. We can't help you with your schedule, or make the subject
   pleasant, but we've assembled a few resources that can help you get
   started.

   July 2001 - Are Your Health Records an Open Book?
   Most of us would get very upset if we thought our financial information
   was being provided to others without our consent. But did you know that
   currently, the health information you provide your doctor doesn't
   necessarily stay in the office. It may be shared for many reasons and
   with many people (other doctors and hospitals, pharmacies, insurance
   companies, schools, employers, data clearinghouses, pharmaceutical
   companies, and even marketers). Read the July focus to learn about the
   Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and how to
   protect your health records from inappropriate disclosure.

   June 2001 - Beat the Heat: Tips for Summer Survival
   It will soon be the dog days of the summer. Oh no, did you lose your
   electricity to one of those rolling blackouts? Here are your options:
   1) camp out in the frozen section of your local grocery store and try
   to blend in with the icecream and popsicles; 2) hook up a fan to your
   stationary bicycle and put your spouse to work generating some cool
   air; or 3) go to your local airconditioned library and visit our
   website to read our Beat the Heat consumer focus. It has lots of tips,
   strategies, and loads of information that will help you survive those
   energy-related challenges and keep you safe in the summer heat.

   May 2001 - Consumers in Control: A New Privacy Right
   Have you ever dreamed of becoming a super hero? To have great strength
   and magic powers to save the universe from total destruction? Well ...
   this is real world and you can't save everyone - but you CAN rescue
   your privacy. There is a new law that requires financial institutions
   to tell their customers about the kinds of information they collect
   about their customers and the types of businesses that may be given the
   information. Read here to find out how to keep your personal
   information, well ... personal. We'll have to save mankind another day.

   April 2001 - LASIK Eye Surgery - Is it Right for You?
   Tired of squinting at the alarm clock when you wake up in the morning?
   Are your contacts a hassle to deal with everyday? Well, maybe Lasik eye
   surgery is for you. Click here to find out great tips. Now if they can
   only make us look better in flourescent lighting.....

   March 2001 - Air Travel Tips for the Best Trips
   Booking a flight for your vacation? Can't wait to hear those wonderful
   words "Good afternoon passengers; we're experiencing a slight
   delay...." Although there are no guarantees against plane delays, here
   are some tips to help make your plane ride go smoothly. (But we can't
   promise anything for turbulence)

   February 2001 - Facts About Depression
   Some people think that depression is just a state of mind that people
   can "snap out of" if they only try. Unfortunately, this is not true.
   Depression is a real illness and can affect people of any age, race,
   ethnic or economic group.

   January 2001 - Fiscal Fitness And Your Financial Records
   Resolve to get your financial health in order for the New Year. Here
   are some tips to tone up your record keeping skills and your bottom
   line.
   December 2000 - Occupation: Self-Employed
   Do you dream of being your own boss? People consider self-employment
   for many different reasons. Read all about it in our December Focus.
   November 2000 - Wish You Could Own Your Own Home?
   It's possible that you can actually afford a home of your own and just
   don't realize it yet. There are several important financial benefits to
   owning a home.
   October 2000 - Tire Safety Alert
   With the current news of Firestone Tire recalls, how do you know if
   these tires are on your car? Not only are there important links and
   phone numbers, this focus also includes general tire safety tips and
   what to do if your tires are recalled.
   September 2000 - Healthy Eating for Weight Loss
   Have you noticed that all your clothes keep shrinking? You can blame it
   on the dry cleaner or be true to yourself and create a goal to lose
   weight. A lifestyle based on healthy eating and regular physical
   activity can help you look better, feel better and have more energy.
   August 2000 - Wondering About Wireless?
   Who used to play Star Trek? Remember talking into a small chunk of wood
   and instructing your sister to "beam you up"? Ah...communicators...it's
   all starting to come back, isn't it? Well, throw out that chunk of
   wood! Wireless phones are today's communicators, so beam yourself to
   this month's focus and learn more about purchasing a wireless phone.
   July 2000 - Identity Crisis? Protecting Yourself Against Identity Theft
   Get the latest information on how to protect yourself and your good
   name. Learn what steps to take if someone has assumed your financial
   identity.
   June 2000 - Ready to Roll? Tips on Buying a New Car
   Time to replace that old piece of metal with a sleek, new, automobile?
   Use these tips and you will be wheeling and dealing like a pro!
   May 2000 - Rolling Back the Hands of Time: The Facts on Plastic Surgery
   Thinking about having a nip here or a tuck there? Plastic surgery has
   made extraordinary advances both in cosmetic procedures and
   reconstructive procedures in recent years.
   April 2000 - The Great Escape: Planning Your Vacation Adventure
   Need a break from the daily grind? A vacation may be just what you
   need. Whatever your plans, start making them now.
   March 2000 - Making the Grade - Financial Aid for College
   In order to afford to send Junior to college, will the rest of the
   family have to eat beans and weenies for the next 5 years? Check out
   this month's focus and learn about financial aid for college.
   February 2000 - Spring Training: Devising Your Tax Game-Plan Early
   You can run, but you can't hide. It's tax time. It's time to do your
   civic duty and pay up. Or if you are lucky, get a little bonus money
   back for that once-in-a-lifetime vacation to your favorite hotspot, and
   mine, Pueblo, Colorado! Read more about getting prepared for tax time.
   January 2000 - Surfing Safely: Buying Drugs Online
   Even though you can compare prices and not wait hours for your
   prescription, how do you know if the site you are on is legitimate? Can
   you trust an online pharmacist?
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
