http://www.anl.gov/OPA/news02/news020111.htm

       One of the nation's leading science and technology research centers.

      Argonne home page || Argonne news releases || Argonne Virtual Newsroom

   University competition to
   accelerate technology transfer

      ARGONNE, Ill. (January 11, 2002) — The U.S. Department of Energy's
      Argonne National Laboratory will host a Technology Demonstration Day
      January 29 to open a venture development competition for university
      students.

      The competition, open to teams of students from universities
      nationwide, asks the students to develop plans to commercialize one of
      the new technologies being researched at Argonne.

      On January 29, the students will hear presentations by four innovative
      Argonne scientists who have made recent scientific discoveries in
      advanced materials, energy storage, lasers and optics, and
      nanotechnology. The students will then select one of the technologies
      to create a development plan.

      Argonne scientists and their research areas are:
        * George Fenske, advanced materials, including a super-slick and very
          strong coating for metals and plastics;
        * John Hull, energy storage, including several innovative techniques
          for holding excess energy for later use without any loss;
        * Mike Pellin, lasers and optics, including a new technique for trace
          analysis of samples no larger than a micron - much smaller than the
          period at the end of a sentence;
        * Jeff Eastman, nanotechnology, including a new technology for adding
          tiny spherical particles to a conventional fluid that improves its
          ability to transfer heat by 40 percent. (Nanofluids, thermal
          properties of nanocrystalline films)

      Student teams composed of either undergraduate or graduate level
      academic programs in science, technology, or entrepreneurship will be
      encouraged to participate in the competition. To qualify, each team
      must prepare and submit an official "Technology Application Plan,"
      developed by Jerome M. Juska, president of Technology Transformations,
      Inc., sponsor of this academic program.

      Project entries will be evaluated by Argonne scientists and a group of
      venture formation experts; semifinalists will be invited for a final
      presentation on May 1, 2002.

      Don Joyce, deputy to the director at Argonne, said, "As worldwide
      leaders in advanced scientific research, it is most appropriate that we
      engage in projects which enable students to benefit from our knowledge
      and expand their own visions of technology based on the foundations
      that Argonne has created."

      Registration is required for both the Technology Demonstration Day and
      involvement with the competition. Additional information and details
      are available by clicking the "University contest" link on the Argonne
      home page at www.anl.gov, or go directly to the contest Web site at
      projects.dep.anl.gov/.

      The nation’s first national laboratory, Argonne National Laboratory
      conducts basic and applied scientific research across a wide spectrum
      of disciplines, ranging from high-energy physics to climatology and
      biotechnology. Since 1990, Argonne has worked with more than 600
      companies and numerous federal agencies and other organizations to help
      advance America's scientific leadership and prepare the nation for the
      future. Argonne is operated by the University of Chicago as part of the
      U.S. Department of Energy's national laboratory system.

      For more information, please contact Catherine Foster (630/252-5580 or
      cfoster@anl.gov) at Argonne.
