http://zing.ncsl.nist.gov/projects.html

                            [USEMAP:aboutVUG.jpg]



                                VUG Projects


                    Industry Usability Reporting Website

   Common Industry Format for the Testing of Usability Evaluation Reports
                                   Website

         Visualization and Virtual Reality for Manufacturing Website

                         Web Metrics Testbed Website


   Industry USability Reporting

   In October of 1997, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and
   Technology (NIST) initiated an effort to increase the visibility of
   software usability. Cooperating in this effort are prominent suppliers
   of software and representatives from large consumer organizations. The
   goals of the initiative are:
   * Encourage software suppliers and consumer organizations to work
       together to understand user needs and tasks.
       * Develop a common usability reporting format for sharing usability
       data with consumer organizations.
       * Conduct a pilot trial to determine how well the usability
       reporting format works and to determine the value of using this
       format in software procurement.

   The role of NIST in this effort is to:
   * Act as a facilitator in bringing together the supplier and consumer
       organizations
       * Maintain the documents drafted by these groups and support a
       public review cycle.
       * Collect and analyze data from the pilot trial to determine the
       value of incorporating usability into product decision-making. This
       data will not be attributed to companies but will be anonymously
       used in analyzing the data. More...


   Common Industry Format for the Testing of Usability Evaluation Reports

   The CIFter Project was created by a project team of the Visualization
   and Usability Group* at The National Institute of Standards and
   Technology (NIST) to promote the investigation and development of ways
   to evaluate and benchmark methodologies for assessing the usability of
   websites. CIFter is a compound acronym. The CIF is the Common Industry
   Format for reporting the results of usability studies with users. The
   "ter" refers to the "Testing of usability Evaluation Reports".

   There are two goals for the project:
    1. To identify web usability practices that are efficient, economical,
       and effective base onevaluations of test websites.
    2. To use the results of the evaluations to create a benchmarks
       against which future evaluations of a CIFter test website can be
       compared. More...


   Visualization and Virtual Reality for Manufacturing

   The Visualization and Virtual Reality for Manufacturing (VVRM) project
   is a SIMA (Systems Integration for Manufacturing Automation) funded
   project that examines the role of advanced user interfaces for
   manufacturing applications.

   The objective of the VVRM project is to explore the feasibility of a
   range of tools and techniques that support advanced manufacturing.
   More...


   Web Metrics Testbed

   Good usability is critical to the success of a website. Traditional
   usability engineering techniques can be difficult to apply to web
   usability evaluation because the users are heterogeneous and
   geographically dispersed. Also, website software development cycles
   demand quick turnaround.

   The objective of the NIST Web Metrics Testbed is to explore the
   feasibility of a range of tools and techniques that support rapid,
   remote, and automated testing and evaluation of website usability. The
   prototypes are used to support the usability engineering research of
   the Visualization and Usability Group (VUG). As part of the Information
   Access Division of the Information Technology Laboratory at the
   National Institute of Standards and Technology, VUG encourages industry
   to use and/or commercialize its ideas. More...


   Privacy Statement/Security Notice
   Disclaimer | FOIA

   NIST is an agency of the
   U.S. Commerce Department's
   Technology Administration.

   Web page comments to:
   csheppard@nist.gov

   Date created: 6/7/2001
   Last updated: 6/7/2001
