http://www.hq.nasa.gov/osf/

   REFRESH(600 sec):
   file://localhost/tmp/lynxXXXX8r2jLC/L18523-7102TMP.html

Space Shuttle
Space Station
ISS Viewing
ELV
Advanced Programs
OSF Contractors
Q & A
Fun Stuff
Space Hotlist
Space Statistics
Commercialization
Strategic Plan
OSF Only
Site Map

                 OSF HEADER
                 Welcome to the future of space flight

   The goal of the Human Exploration and Development of Space (HEDS)
   Enterprise is to open the space frontier by exploring, using and
   enabling the development of space. Our programs provide safe, assured
   transportation to and from space for people and payloads, and develop
   and operate habitable space facilities in order to enhance scientific
   knowledge, support technology development, and enable commercial
   activity. The four major goals of the HEDS are the following:

     * Explore the space frontier
     * Enable humans to live and work permanently in space
     * Enable the commercial development of space
     * Share the experience and benefits of discovery

                                    News:

                     IMAGE: International Space Station

     ISS has gained a door to space. On 7/15, the new Airlock module
     "Quest" was attached to the International Space Station, bringing
     6.5 tons and 1200 cu.ft. to the station which now has a mass of 130
     t. This ends Phase 2 of ISS Assembly. Details

                     IMAGE: International Space Station

     ISS now carries Destiny. The International Space Station has grown
     to 112 tons of mass when, on Feb. 10, the U.S. laboratory module
     Destiny arrived, first of six world-class research facilities.
     Details

                     IMAGE: International Space Station

     Two Solar Arrays Deployed.The International Space Station has now
     spread both of its new P6 solar-array wings, installed by STS-97
     astronauts in early December. Together, they generate a maximum of
     62 kilowatt of power. Details

             Expedition 1 crew departed from Baikonur/Kasakstan

     On October 31, 2000, the crew of Expedition 1 departed from
     Baikonur/Kasakstan on a Soyuz-U rocket to open the ISS for business
     and begin permanent human occupancy of near-Earth space. Details

                                  Astronaut

     Personal Space
     A new site where you can meet a few of the people behind the success
     of the International Space Station.

                                   STS-97

     STS-97 mission ends successfully. Details

     The "Space Shuttle Independent Assessment Team" Report is now
     available. Click here for details.

                          There's Space in My Life

     Explore NASA's new website which makes a wealth of NASA information
     easily accessible to women, men, and their families, and to share
     how aerospace plays a role in our lives right here, close to home.

                     IMAGE: International Space Station

     Check our Space Station Overview presentation.
     It's fun and it's in language everyone can understand.

                        IMAGE: Space Shuttle liftoff

     For easy to understand information on the Space Shuttle, check out
     our Shuttle Overview.
     Also, read what it feels like to watch a shuttle launch in The
     Emotion of Space

                                                              Responsible NASA Official:
                                                                         Chris Burroughs
                                                                                Curator:
                                                               SAIC Information Services
                                                                               Comments?
                                                           NASA web sites Navigation Bar
