http://www.osti.gov/accomplishments/

   R&D Accomplishments
   R&D Accomplishments Home Page What's New Search R&D Accomplishments
   Title List Snapshots Nobel Laureates
   Security/Disclaimer Notices Help Page Comments EnergyFiles Office of
   Scientific and Technical Information Department of Energy

      Welcome to the Department of Energy (DOE) Research and Development
      (R&D) Accomplishments, a central forum for information about the
      outcomes of past DOE R&D that have had significant economic impact,
      have improved people’s lives, or have been widely recognized as a
      remarkable advance in science. An R&D accomplishment is the outcome of
      past research whose benefits are being realized now.



      Enrico Fermi

   Enrico Fermi
   Centennial of Birth
   September 29, 2001

      The core of this Web site is the DOE R&D Accomplishments Database,
      containing searchable full-text and bibliographic citations of
      documents reporting accomplishments from DOE and DOE contractor
      facilities. Complementing the Database are the Snapshots, which provide
      quick pictures, introductions, overviews, or synopses of DOE
      accomplishments.

      The DOE R&D Accomplishments Database – developed, maintained, and
      supported by the DOE Office of Scientific and Technical Information
      (OSTI) – may be used to search, locate, access, and download full-text
      and/or bibliographic information electronically. This exciting new
      collection showcases the proud heritage of the Department’s R&D. The
      full potential of the Database will be realized through the active
      support and participation of the DOE community to fully populate the
      system. Department laboratories, field offices, and program offices may
      submit accomplishment reports for inclusion in the DOE R&D
      Accomplishments Database.

      The Snapshots page contains links to items or articles which contain
      information about or identify at least one R&D accomplishment. In some
      instances when more information is available via DOE R&D
      Accomplishments Database reports, links to the reports are provided.

      Research and development accomplishments are exemplified by the
      seventy-three (73) Nobel Laureates affiliated with the Department of
      Energy or predecessor agencies. DOE R&D Accomplishments provides
      information about these Nobel Laureates and their outstanding
      achievements.

      For information about recent research endeavors and research program
      progress, see EnergyFiles R&D Highlights.

      For further information or to provide comments, please contact the R&D
      Accomplishments Product Manager at accomplishments@mailgate.osti.gov.

         Top

    Bobby Approved (v 3.2)

                           Office of Scientific and Technical Information
