http://www-als.lbl.gov/als/news.html

      skip navigation navigation bar -- same as text links at bottom
      News

   Workshop on Ultrafast Science Using X-Rays

        A new workshop sponsored by the ALS, SSRL, the SLS, DOE, and NIH
        will bring together the existing ultrafast optics community and the
        emerging ultrafast x-ray community for a look into the possibilities
        of ultrafast x-ray techniques. The workshop, entitled "New
        Opportunities in Ultrafast Science Using X-Rays," will be held in
        Napa, California, April 14-17, 2002. Attendance will be limited to
        100 people, and prospective attendees are asked to apply by January
        31. See the web site at
        www-esg.lbl.gov/esg/meetings/ultrafast/index.html for registration
        information and further details.


   Call for Abstracts: ALS Compendium 2001

        Every year, the ALS publishes a compendium of abstracts describing
        the work done, in whole or in part, at the ALS during the past
        calendar year. All users or user groups (including ALS staff
        members) should submit a one- to three-page abstract (including
        figures) describing each project conducted at the ALS during
        calendar year 2001 (January 1 to December 31), whether published,
        unpublished, or in progress. The submission deadline is January 28,
        2002. Detailed information on submitting abstracts can be found
        online at http://alspubs.lbl.gov/Compendium_old.

        The abstracts will be published on a CD to be included in the back
        of the 2001 ALS Activity Report. Electronic files will be accepted
        in a number of formats, preferably PDF. If you have any questions,
        please contact Lori Tamura by email (lstamura@lbl.gov), fax
        (510-495-2111), or phone (510-486-6172).


        See the Latest Issue of ALSNews for more about what's happening at
        the ALS.
        Previous issues are also available.


             Home | News | Science | User Guide | Search | Ring Status

                           Last updated January 28, 2002
                              Questions and Comments
                            Privacy and Security Notice
