http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/MetaMap/riao94.final.pdf

   Exploiting a Large Thesaurus for Information Retrieval Alan R. Aronson
   Thomas C. Rindflesch Allen C. Browne National Library of Medicine 8600
   Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 1. Background Accuracy in information
   retrieval, that is, achieving both high recall and precision, is
   challenging because the relationship between natural language and
   semantic conceptual structure is not straightforward. However,
   effective retrieval requires that the semantic conceptual structure (or
   content) of both queries and documents be known. Natural language
   processing is one way to determine the content of a text. But, due to
   the complexity involved in natural language process- ing, various
   methods have been used which simulate (or approximate) representation
   of the con- tent of both queries and documents. One method of
   approximating the semantic content of a text is single word indexing,
   which can be enhanced with statistical methods, morphological
   processing (often stemming), and per- haps some sort of clustering to
   represent relationships between words. This "words-only" approach has
   enjoyed considerable success, especially in the vector space model
   (Salton 1986). However, there is a pervasive view that the method has
   reached the limits of its effectiveness. Although natural language
   processing is difficult, its potential benefits for information
   retrieval have caused various researchers to investigate the use of
   both syntactic and semantic pro- cessing. Smeaton and van Rijsbergen
   (1988) and Lewis and Croft (1990), for example, report that the use of
   syntax in information retrieval shows promise in increasing retrieval
   effectiveness. In other work, Bonzi and Liddy (1988) investigate the
   enhancement of statistical techniques with anaphor resolution, while
   Sager et al. (1993) report favorably on the role of syntactic
   processing in accessing medical records.1 Some studies, however, have
   not been optimistic (Fagan 1987, for example). There has also been
   research concentrating on semantic conceptual representation in
   informa- tion retrieval (Mauldin 1991, and Jacobs and Rau 1990, for
   example). In the area of biomedical information retrieval, a number of
   researchers have addressed the notion of incorporating some sort of
   conceptual processing. Johnson et al. (1993), for example, report on
   one approach using semantic processing for accessing biomedical text,
   while Baud et al. (1993) discuss another. Although both syntactic and
   semantic processing demonstrate promise for increasing effec- tiveness
   in information retrieval, so far neither has been shown to be practical
   for processing unconstrained text. This is in contrast to the vector
   space model, which efficiently handles such text. What we propose in
   this paper is a retrieval methodology which takes advantage of the
   attractive characteristics of the vector space model, but which
   enhances its effectiveness through two techniques: a) underspecified
   syntactic analysis, which, significantly, can accommodate unconstrained
   text and b) the use of a large thesaurus. While the use of a thesaurus
   holds a venerable position in information retrieval (Sparck Jones 1986,
   Salton and Lesk 1971) there has recently been a renewed interest in its
   application (see Evans et al. 1991, Hersh and Greenes 1990, and Hersh
   et al. 1994, for example). Typically, a the- saurus contains
   information pertaining to paradigmatic semantic relations such as
   synonymy and is often used for broadening the search term and thus
   increasing recall. Evans et al. (1991) use a thesaurus for validation
   of terms. In the context of biomedical information retrieval we propose
   mapping the text of both queries and documents to terms in the UMLS®
   Metathesaurus® in order to increase precision in a vector space model.
   The Metathesaurus is one component of the National Library of
   Medicine's Unified Medical Language System® (UMLS) (See Lindberg et al.
   1993). The 5th (1994) Experimental Version2 of the Metathesaurus covers
   more than 150,000 concepts (including over 300,000 variants and syn-
   onyms) drawn from a variety of biomedical vocabularies, including
   MeSH,® ICD-9-CM, and SNOMED. The Metathesaurus indicates corresponding
   relationships between terms in the various vocabularies and exploits
   hierarchical relationships between terms as they exist within a vocabu-
   lary. The Metathesaurus provides a wealth of additional information,
   including the semantic type 1. See Schwartz 1990 for further discussion
   of syntactic processing in information retrieval. 2. The work described
   in this paper was based on the 4th (1993) Experimental Version of the
   Metathesaurus. 2 for each concept, definitions for many terms from
   Dorland's Illustrated Medical Dictionary, and cooccurrence with other
   terms in MEDLINE® citations. We claim that the extensive information
   available in the Metathesaurus can make a significant contribution to
   improving retrieval effectiveness. This is disputed by Hersh et al.
   (1992), however, who report that mapping to the UMLS Metathesaurus
   provides no advantage in information retrieval. We respond to Hersh et
   al. by noting the importance of the effectiveness of the mapping
   technique. At least one other study (Yang and Chute 1993) supports the
   thesis that effective map- ping of text to the Metathesaurus may
   improve results in information retrieval and suggests a sta- tistical
   method (linear least squares fit) to accomplish the mapping. We agree
   with Yang and Chute that the effectiveness of mapping from the language
   of the texts to the concepts in the the- saurus is crucial for
   realizing the advantage of using a thesaurus. We differ from them,
   however, in using an approach which concentrates on symbolic processing
   based on linguistic analysis. We prefer this approach because it seems
   more likely that a symbolic method can be improved incre- mentally and
   may eventually offer a basis for advanced inferencing methods. 2. The
   Methodology 2.1 Overview In the context of the SPECIALIST system (See
   McCray 1991 and McCray et al. 1993), we pro- pose a method of
   information retrieval which enhances the vector space model and is
   crucially based on mapping text to concepts in the Metathesaurus.
   Significantly, we claim that the process- ing which supports this
   mapping is essential for effective retrieval. This processing provides
   intense variant generation, including abbreviation expansion,
   inflectional and derivational mor- phology, and the determination of
   synonymy relations, as well as a principled way of dealing with partial
   mappings. In addition, an important aspect is underspecified syntactic
   analysis, which con- strains the mapping to the Metathesaurus. Strings
   of text which map to Metathesaurus concepts must occur within the
   boundaries of a syntactic unit. The most important syntactic unit for
   these purposes is the simple noun phrase (that is the noun phrase
   without relative clauses or post-modifying prepositional phrases). An
   underspecified analysis which identifies simple noun phrases appears to
   be wholly adequate for 3 supporting mapping to the Metathesaurus. To
   employ a more elaborate analysis would be need- lessly costly. Our
   system shares a number of characteristics with CLARIT (Evans et al.
   1991) and SAPHIRE (Hersh and Greenes 1990). However, the particular
   combination of characteristics is innovative. Although CLARIT uses
   syntactic analysis and a thesaurus, the knowledge source it uses is not
   as rich as the UMLS Metathesaurus. Although SAPHIRE exploits the
   Metathesaurus, it does not use the same mapping procedure we do, nor
   does it use syntactic analysis. Figure 1 provides an overview of the
   way our methodology can enhance the vector space model. Input text is
   first processed with underspecified syntactic analysis and is then
   mapped to the Metathesaurus. The vector space model then accepts the
   resulting text, enhanced with Meta- thesaurus concepts. We have tested
   this methodology on the UMLS Test Collection (Schuyler et al. 1989)
   using the SMART information retrieval system (see Salton 1991) and have
   found that this methodology contributes to enhanced precision. Input
   Text Syntactic Analysis Map to Metathesaurus Text Enhanced with
   Metathesaurus Concepts Figure 1. System Overview For the remainder of
   this paper we first briefly describe the underspecified syntactic
   analysis we use and then discuss in some detail the methodology for
   mapping to the Metathesaurus. We conclude with the results of testing
   the system with SMART. 4 2.2 Syntactic analysis Syntactic processing is
   supported by a large lexicon, containing over 60,000 entries with
   syntactic information (see Browne et al. 1993). We also rely on the
   Xerox stochastic part-of-speech tagger (Cutting et al. 1992). Getting
   the part-of-speech labels from the tagger allows the syntactic pro-
   cessor to be more efficient and contributes to the overall accuracy of
   the information retrieval pro- cess. Our syntactic analysis
   concentrates on identifying simple noun phrases, that is, noun phrases
   in which the head is the rightmost element and which thus have no right
   modification. Informally, the algorithm we use for assigning syntactic
   structure can be thought of as a series of filters which bring the
   structure into clearer and clearer focus and proceeds in two steps: a)
   marking simple noun phrase boundaries within a larger structure and b)
   applying labelling rules to identify heads and modifiers within each
   simple noun phrase. In a successful syntactic analysis, heads are
   identified and items to the left of the head are sim- ply labelled as
   "modifier". For example, the text in (1) is given the analysis in (2),
   where preposi- tional phrases (PP) and simple noun phrases are
   identified. (1) Responsiveness to epidermal growth factor of human
   embryonic mesenchyma cells of palate by persistent rubella virus
   infection (2) a. [ head(responsiveness) ]NP b. [ prep(to), [
   mod(epidermal), mod(growth), head(factor) ]NP ]PP c. [ prep(of), [
   mod(human), mod(embryonic), mod(mesenchyma), head(cells) ]NP ]PP d. [
   prep(of), [ head(palate) ]NP ]PP e. [ prep(by), [ mod(persistent),
   mod(rubella), mod(virus), head(infection) ]NP ]PP The structure we
   impose on noun phrases is underspecified in the sense that detailed
   internal structure is not provided beyond the identification of the
   head of the structure along with all of the modifiers in the noun
   phrase which occur to the left of the head. This is almost exactly the
   approach taken by Evans et al. (1991). A similar approach is used by
   Greffenstette (1992) and Agarwal and Boggess (1992). Mauldin (1991)
   also uses an underspecified linguistic analysis, although of a somewhat
   different type from that used here. Other researchers use linguistic
   analy- 5 sis which is more fully specified, but yet, which provides an
   underspecified analysis under certain circumstances. See Strzalkowski
   and Vauthey 1992 and Jacobs and Rau 1990, for example. 2.3 Mapping
   simple noun phrases to concepts in the UMLS Metathesaurus After all
   simple noun phrases have been identified, we map these structures to
   concepts in the Metathesaurus using a comprehensive mapping program
   which employs extensive variant genera- tion as well as a principled
   way of dealing with partial matches between the phrase and Meta-
   thesaurus concepts. It is important to recall that the mapping to the
   Metathesaurus occurs within the bounds of a noun phrase. That is, a
   Metathesaurus concept cannot cross a noun phrase bound- ary. The
   process of mapping simple noun phrases to concepts in the Metathesaurus
   consists of generating variants of words in the phrase, finding all
   candidate concepts which contain a variant, computing a similarity
   value for each candidate, and combining one or more of the best candi-
   dates into a coherent interpretation. For example, the text mineralize
   generates variants minerals and mineralization (among others). The
   candidate concepts from the Metathesaurus which con- tain these
   variants are "Minerals" and "Mineralization". The mapping algorithm
   determines that of these candidates "Mineralization" constitutes the
   best interpretation of mineralize. 2.3.1 Variant generation Variant
   generation is determined by the knowledge available from our lexicon
   and knowledge bases of synonyms and derivational morphological rules.
   The variant generation algorithm described here is knowledge intensive
   and uses the following knowledge bases:3 * The SPECIALIST lexicon for
   determining spelling variations, abbreviations, acronyms, and
   inflectional variations; * two knowledge bases of synonyms: one
   obtained by extracting synonyms from Dorland's Illustrated Medical
   Dictionary, and an additional synonym knowledge base developed for use
   with SPECIALIST; and * a knowledge base containing rules of
   derivational morphology. 3. Our variant generation is much simpler than
   that of Sparck Jones and Tait (1984). This is because our variants are
   only an aid to mapping from input to concepts in the domain model and
   are not directly used for matching queries to documents. 6 Variants are
   generated for each head and modifier as determined by syntactic
   analysis and include morphological variants, synonyms, acronyms and
   abbreviations for subsequences of words in the noun phrase. A distance
   value is computed to determine how much each variant devi- ates from
   the input form. Spelling and inflectional variants deviate less than
   synonyms, while der- ivational variants have the highest distance
   value. The results are filtered at each step using the lexicon. For
   example the variants generated for input chemicals are given in (3)
   where (3a) is an inflec- tional variant; the first item in (3b) is an
   abbreviation, followed by its inflections; (3c) contains a derivational
   variant of chemicals along with its plural and (3d) and (3e) are
   derivational variants. (3) a. chemical b. chem, chems, chem's c.
   chemist, chemists d. chemically e. chemistry 2.3.2 Metathesaurus
   candidates Once variants have been generated for a given phrase,
   candidate terms from the Metathesaurus are identified. Such candidates
   for a noun phrase consist of the set of all Metathesaurus terms which
   contain at least one of the variants computed for the phrase and which
   satisfy a further condition on partial matches discussed below. For the
   phrase bone mineral density studies the syntactic structure is given in
   (4) and exam- ples of the variants are given in (5). (4) [mod(bone),
   mod(mineral), mod(density),head(studies)] (5) bone, bones, boned,
   boning, bony, bonier, boniest, os, ossa, mineral, minerals,
   mineralisation, mineralization, mineralise, mineralize, density,
   densities, dense, denseness studies, study, studying, studious Some
   candidate terms from the Metathesaurus which contain at least one of
   the variants are given in (6), where preferred terms are given in
   parentheses. 7 (6) "Bone Mineral Density" ("Bone Density") "Bone
   Density" "Bone Mineralization" ("Calcification, Physiologic") "Bone"
   ("Bones") "Minerals" "Mineralization" 2.3.3 Mapping between phrase and
   Metathesaurus terms The final step in the mapping process combines the
   best candidate Metathesaurus terms to form mappings between the noun
   phrase and one or more Metathesaurus terms. The best candidate is
   determined by the degree of similarity between the noun phrase and the
   Metathesaurus concept, where the highest degree of similarity exists in
   an exact match in which an entire input phrase matches exactly
   (ignoring upper and lower case differences) to one Metathesaurus
   concept: inten- sive care units maps to "Intensive Care Units". A
   lesser degree of similarity between a noun phrase and a concept is
   based on factors which take into account how much variation is used to
   accomplish the match, whether the head is involved, and how much of the
   concept and the noun phrase are involved in the match. In addition to
   an exact match, other types of matches can occur between a noun phrase
   and a Metathesaurus term. In a simple match the noun phrase maps to a
   single Metathesaurus term, although with some variation. For example,
   the input phrase carotid artery maps to "Carotid Arteries". In a
   complex match there is a partitioning of the noun phrase so that each
   element of the partition has a simple match to a term in the
   Metathesaurus. Thus, acidotic dogs maps to the two terms "Acidosis" and
   "Dogs". In a partial match the noun phrase maps to a Metathesaurus term
   in such a way that at least one word of either the noun phrase or the
   Metathesaurus term (or both) does not participate in the mapping. Some
   examples of partial matches are given in (7). 8 (7) synthetic organic
   chemical maps to "Organic Chemicals" ambulatory monitoring maps to
   "Ambulatory Electrocardiographic Monitoring" obstructive sleep apnea
   maps to "Obstructive Apnea" We eliminate partial matches in which both
   the first and last words of the Metathesaurus term do not participate
   in the match. This allows ambulatory monitoring to map to the
   Metathesaurus term "Ambulatory Electrocardiographic Monitoring" above,
   but disallows, for example, left ven- tricle from mapping to the term
   "Left Ventricular Outflow Obstruction". Mappings which do not satisfy
   this rule do not constitute the best mapping between noun phrase and
   Metathesaurus. For candidates which do not constitute an exact match,
   choosing the best match is based on the degree of similarity between
   the noun phrase and Metathesaurus concepts. Similarity is com- puted by
   a comparison metric based on four components: centrality, variation,
   coverage, and cohesiveness. A normalized value between 0 and 1 is
   computed for each of these components. These values are combined in a
   weighted average in which the coverage and cohesiveness compo- nents
   receive twice the weight as the centrality and variation components.
   Each of the comparison metric components is discussed below. The
   centrality value is simply 1 if the Metathesaurus concept involves the
   head of the phrase and 0 otherwise. For example, "Bone Mineralization",
   a candidate concept for the phrase bone mineral density studies,
   receives a centrality score of 0 since it does not involve studies, the
   head of the phrase. Variation measures the degree to which variants in
   the Metathesaurus concept differ from the corresponding words in the
   noun phrase. It is computed by first determining the "variation dis-
   tance" for each variant in the Metathesaurus concept. This distance is
   the sum of the distance val- ues for each step taken during variant
   generation. The values for each step are determined by the type of
   variant and are, in order of increasing distance, spelling variation,
   inflectional variation, synonymy and derivational variation. Of the two
   candidate concepts "Minerals" and "Mineraliza- tion", the first
   receives a better variation score for the text bone mineral density
   studies. This is because "Mineralization", a derivational variant, is
   considered to be more "distant" from mineral than "Minerals", an
   inflectional variant. Coverage indicates how much of the Metathesaurus
   concept and the noun phrase are involved in the match. For example, of
   the two Metathesaurus concepts "Bone Mineralization" and "Bone Density"
   which are candidates for mapping to the noun phrase bone mineral
   density studies, the 9 second gets a higher coverage value because it
   spans more of the input phrase (bone mineral den- sity) than does the
   first candidate (bone mineral). The cohesiveness value is similar to
   the coverage value but emphasizes the importance of con- nected
   components. Here, gaps in coverage are undesirable. Using the same
   example as above, "Bone Mineralization" receives a better cohesiveness
   score than does "Bone Density" as a map- ping for the phrase bone
   mineral density studies. This is so because the former candidate maps
   to the cohesive text bone mineral, while the latter maps to the
   discontinuous text bone ... density. In the final determination of the
   mappings between noun phrase and Metathesaurus concept, both less
   variation and involvement of the head contribute to a stronger match.
   High coverage and cohesiveness are favored, with coverage taking
   precedence over cohesiveness. In general, a sim- ple match represents a
   stronger mapping between the input phrase and the Metathesaurus term,
   while complex matches are less strong, and partial matches represent
   the weakest mapping from input to Metathesaurus. These criteria
   conspire to determine that of the candidate Metathesaurus terms for the
   phrase bone mineral density studies given above the best match is "Bone
   Mineral Density". 3. Assessing the effectiveness of the methodology In
   order to determine whether underspecified syntactic analysis and
   mapping to the UMLS Meta- thesaurus could enhance the vector space
   model we used the SMART system and the UMLS Test Collection. We used
   our system to create a surrogate text from the original Test
   Collection. This surrogate, rather than the original text, then served
   as input to SMART. 3.1 The UMLS Test Collection The UMLS Test
   Collection is a corpus of about 750,000 words consisting of 150 queries
   and 3,000 documents (approximately 25,000 major syntactic structures:
   sentences and complex noun phrases). The documents are MEDLINE
   citations (containing title, authors, abstracts, and MeSH indexing
   terms) in three subject categories: clinical medicine research, health
   sciences research, and basic science research. The queries are
   transcripts of requests for bibliographic information from a variety of
   biomedical sources and are in the language of the original requester of
   informa- tion. The queries range from straightforward (8) to more
   elaborate (9). 10 (8) I am looking for any information I can get on the
   complement system in dogs. (9) We have a most interesting patient who
   has Hodgkin's disease and has presented with a liver abscess due to
   Nocardia species! Request search for papers detailing infections,
   specifically liver abscesses, in patients with Hodgkin's disease;
   spectrum of clinical illness infections due to Nocardia sp.; infections
   on patients with Chronic Granulomatous disease. The 150 queries are
   divided into approximately 50 queries for each of the three subject
   areas noted. The collection was created by an expert searcher
   translating the original user's request into a formal Boolean query
   composed primarily of the key words from the MeSH vocabulary and then
   conducting a search on the MeSH indexing terms for a subset of MEDLINE
   citations. The precision of these searches was determined to be about
   65% by a domain expert who examined (and marked as relevant or
   nonrelevant) the citations retrieved by each of the 150 searches. 3.2
   The surrogate text For each query and citation in the Test Collection
   we produced a surrogate text by replacing phrases (or parts of phrases)
   in the original text with their corresponding Metathesaurus concept.
   Any phrase or phrase component which did not have a mapping was left in
   the text. (A similar method is used in Hersh et al. 1992.) An example
   surrogate text is given in (11) for the input text (10), which is a
   query. (Metathesaurus concepts are capitalized and underlined in the
   surrogate). (10) Input text-Please do literature search for any
   relationship between chloroquine and low blood pressure in people with
   pre-existing hypertension. Also possible interaction with diuretics to
   exaggerate hypotensive effect. (11) Surrogate text-Please do Literature
   search for any relationship between Chloroquine and Hypotension in
   people with pre-existing Hypertension. Also possible interaction with
   Diuretics to exaggerate Hypotension effect. Note especially that two
   phrases in the input text, low blood pressure and hypotensive map to
   the concept "Hypotension". This fact indicates one way in which mapping
   to the Metathesaurus contributes to increased precision. When SMART
   processes (11) as a query it will not consider documents pertaining to
   blood poisoning or blood culture relevant, as it would have done when
   processing (10) as a query. 11 The texts in (12) and (13) provide a
   further example of the positive effect of Metathesaurus synonyms. (12)
   Input text-Plasma cell dyscrasias. (13) Surrogate text-
   Paraproteinemias. In addition to "Plasma Cell Dyscrasias", other
   synonyms of "Paraproteinemias" are "Monoclonal Gammopathies" and
   "Paraimmunoglobulinemias". Consequently any of these terms occuring in
   text would map to "Paraproteinemias" and thus documents containing any
   of these terms would be retrieved by a query containing any other. 3.3
   Results When the parts of the input text corresponding to Metathesaurus
   concepts have been replaced with the concepts, SMART operates normally
   on the new surrogate text. The benefits of having both text and
   Metathesaurus concepts can be seen in Figure 1 which shows
   recall/precision curves 1 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 Text with Metathesaurus
   Precision 0.4 Concepts 0.3 Unprocessed Text 0.2 Metathesaurus 0.1
   Concepts Only 0 0 1 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 Recall Figure
   2. Recall/Precision Curves for the NLM Test Collection produced by
   SMART running on three versions of the Test Collection. In addition to
   the original text and the text enhanced with Metathesaurus concepts the
   third text contains only the Meta- 12 thesaurus concepts which resulted
   from the mapping process (but not the original text which failed to
   map). The curve labelled "Metathesaurus Concepts Only" refers to a
   surrogate text which excludes the original text failing to map to the
   Metathesaurus. Average precision for that text is lower than that for
   the unprocessed text. This contrasts with the curve for the surrogate
   text which includes both text and Metathesaurus concepts (labelled
   "Text with Metathesaurus Concepts"), which is better than the
   unprocessed text. The increase of average precision for our method over
   use of the plain text is about 4%. While the average precision figure
   which we achieve is so far not dramatically better than that attainable
   with unprocessed text, the results are nevertheless promising. 3.4
   Improving the methodology Precision could no doubt be increased by
   correcting mapping errors. For those simple noun phrases which map, at
   least partially, to a Metathesaurus concept, the strategy just
   described chooses the correct concept around 90% of the time. By
   correct concept we mean that the concept chosen is an appropriate
   mapping of the text in the given context. In this sample, incorrect
   map- pings to Metathesaurus concepts fall into two general categories:
   those caused by variant genera- tion and those caused by our failure to
   resolve ambiguity. Problems in variant generation can be due to
   morphology, acronym expansion, or synonym expansion. For example, in
   the mapping for the phrase hard physical work morphological variant
   generation causes hard to match the concept "Hardness". Errors due to
   acronym expansion often stem from an analysis which is incorrect for
   other rea- sons. For example, in the phrase Le Fort I osteotomy, the
   term Le Fort does not occur in the Meta- thesaurus, nor does it occur
   in any of our knowledge bases. We therefore treat it as two tokens le
   and fort. Le occurs in our acronym knowledge base as an abbreviation
   for lupus erythematosus, which maps to the corresponding Metathesaurus
   concept "Lupus Erythematosus". Although this can be solved by adding Le
   Fort to our lexicon, it is unlikely that we will ever have complete
   lists. A general solution to such problems is needed. While generally
   valuable, our robust generation of synonyms occasionally leads to
   error. For example, ventricle as such does not occur in the
   Metathesaurus. In one of our synonym lists ven- tricle is listed as a
   synonym of ventriculus, which is also a synonym of stomach. We thus map
   the string ventricle to the concept "Stomach" regardless of the context
   in which it occurs. 13 There are a number of terms in the
   Metathesaurus, such as "Ventilation", which are ambigu- ous. We so far
   do not disambiguate these terms given the context in which they appear.
   Other terms are not ambiguous in the Metathesaurus but map to words
   which are ambiguous in English. We will thus have the wrong concept
   when such terms occur in contexts other than the one speci- fied in the
   Metathesaurus. An example of such a term is "Conditioning", which has
   only the psy- chology denotation in the Metathesaurus. In order to
   resolve the infelicitous and ambiguous mappings under discussion, we
   are cur- rently pursuing research based on distribution patterns of
   semantic types which occur in text. Semantic types in UMLS are features
   such as `Disease or Syndrome', `Diagnostic Procedure', and `Anatomical
   Structure' which indicate the semantic content of each Metathesaurus
   concept with which they are associated. Preliminary results indicate
   that these distribution patterns can be exploited with statistical
   techniques to solve at least some of the problems mentioned. The
   general way in which such a solution might work can be seen by
   referring to the example noted above in which the le of Le Fort I
   Osteotomy mapped infelicitously to "Lupus Erythemato- sus" (which has
   semantic type `Disease or Syndrome'). If the proposed mapping were
   carried out, "Osteotomy" (with semantic type `Therapeutic or Preventive
   Procedure') would occur as the head of a noun phrase having a modifier
   with semantic type `Disease or Syndrome'. If statistical meth- ods can
   determine that this pattern rarely (or never) occurs, then the mapping
   would be disal- lowed, and Le Fort would be left as is in the text. 4.
   Conclusion The results obtained by submitting a moderately large test
   collection to the SMART system indi- cate that underspecified syntactic
   processing and effective mapping of text to concepts in the UMLS
   Metathesaurus have a positive effect on the vector space model.
   Although a complete semantic conceptual representation would be ideal
   for representing the content of text for infor- mation retrieval, it is
   not currently possible to provide such a representation. The surrogate
   text enhanced with Metathesaurus concepts which our system produces
   appears to provide a represen- tation closer to the ideal than is
   possible with unprocessed text. There are several additional reasons
   why mapping to the Metathesaurus is significant for information
   retrieval. There is a great deal more information available in the
   Metathesaurus than is available in traditional thesauri, which
   typically concentrate on synonymy information. Once 14 mapping to the
   Metathesaurus has been accomplished this information can be exploited.
   For example, hierarchical relationships between concepts (such as
   "isa") are provided for many con- cepts. Strzalkowski and Vauthey
   (1992) explore the advantages these can provide for information
   retrieval and they describe a method of computing them from text. This
   information is available directly from the Metathesaurus. With regard
   to the cooccurrence of terms with other terms in MEDLINE citations,
   Harbourt et al. (1993) describe a system which exploits this
   information. We have suggested above that the semantic types may be
   valuable in resolving mapping ambiguities. We would also claim that our
   method, which employs linguistic analysis along with mapping to the
   Metathesaurus provides an advantage over methods which do not involve
   linguistic analy- sis. It seems quite likely that semantic conceptual
   structure, based on linguistic processing, will eventually be needed to
   gain a significantly deeper understanding of free text.4 This deeper
   under- standing is almost certainly required in order to support
   advanced processing such as inferencing and question answering.
   Finally, we comment on the relationship between statistical methods and
   symbolic processing in information retrieval. We do not see any
   antagonism between the two approaches. Rather, we would like to suggest
   that a valuable symbiosis is possible and desirable between them.
   Specifi- cally, we claim that a surrogate text enhanced with concepts
   can improve any of the statistical methods. We have tested this
   hypothesis with a traditional vector space model (SMART) and have found
   that the enhanced text does in fact achieve better results than the
   plain text alone. While we have not so far tested this method with
   other statistical models it seems reasonable to assume that using a
   probabilistic model (see Belkin and Croft 1992) or latent semantic
   indexing model (see Deerwester et al. 1990) on our enhanced text would
   also produce results better than those achieved with the statistical
   model and plain text. Acknowledgments We would like to acknowledge
   Alexa T. McCray, Amir Razi, and Suresh Srinivasan for their con-
   tributions to this research. 4. In Rindflesch and Aronson 1993 we
   discuss an extension to the system described here which produces
   semantic conceptual structure. 15 References Agarwal, Rajeev, and Lois
   Boggess (1992). "A simple but useful approach to conjunct identifica-
   tion". Proceedings, 30th Annual Meeting of the Association for
   Computational Linguistics, 15-21. Baud, Robert; Christian Lovis;
   Laurence Alpay; Anne-Marie Rassinoux; Jean-Raoul Sherrer; Anthony
   Nowlan; and Alan Rector (1993). "Modelling for natural language
   understand- ing". Charles Safran (ed.) Proceedings of the 17th Annual
   Symposium on Computer Appli- cations in Medical Care, 289-293. Belkin,
   Nicholas J., and W. Bruce Croft (1992). "Information Filtering and
   Information Retrieval: Two Sides of the Same Coin?" Communications of
   the ACM 35(12):29-38. Bonzi, Susan, and Elizabeth Liddy (1988). "The
   use of anaphoric resolution for document descriptions in information
   retrieval". Yves Chiaramella (ed.) 11th International Confer- ence on
   Research and Development in Information Retrieval, 53-65. Browne, Allen
   C.; Alexa T. McCray; and Suresh Srinivasan (1993). The SPECIALIST
   Lexicon. National Library of Medicine, Report No. NLM-LHC-93-01.
   (Available from NTIS, Springfield VA: PB93-217248). Cutting, D.; J.
   Kupiec; J. Pedersen; and P. Sibun (1992). "A practical part-of-speech
   tagger". Pro- ceedings of the Third Conference on Applied Natural
   Language Processing. Deerwester, Scott; Susan T. Dumais; George W.
   Furnas; Thomas K. Landauer; and Richard Harshman (1990). "Indexing by
   latent semantic analysis". Journal of the American Society for
   Information Science 41:391-407. Evans, David A.; Kimberly
   Ginther-Webster; Mary Hart; Robert G. Lefferts; and Ira A. Monarch
   (1991). "Automatic indexing using selective NLP and first-order
   thesauri". RIAO 91, 624- 44. Fagan, Joel L. (1987). Experiments in
   Automated Phrase Indexing for Document Retrieval: A Comparison of
   Syntactic and Non-Syntactic Methods. Cornell University doctoral
   disserta- tion. Greffenstette, Gregory. 1992. "Use of syntactic context
   to produce term association lists for text retrieval". Nicholas Belkin,
   Peter Ingwersen, and Annelise Mark Pejtersen (eds) Proceed- 16 ings of
   the 15th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
   Develop- ment in Information Retrieval, 89-97. Harbourt, Anna M.;
   Edmund J. Syed; William T. Hole; and Lawrence C. Kingsland, III (1993).
   "The ranking algorithm of the Coach browser for the UMLS
   Metathesaurus". Charles Saf- ran (ed.) Proceedings of the 17th Annual
   Symposium on Computer Applications in Medical Care, 720-724. Hersh,
   William R., and Robert A. Greenes (1990). "SAPHIRE-An information
   retrieval system featuring concept matching, automatic indexing,
   probabilistic retrieval, and hierarchical relationships". Computers and
   Biomedical Research 23:410-425. Hersh, William R.; David H. Hickam; R.
   Brian Haynes; and K. Ann McKibbon (1994). "A perfor- mance and failure
   analysis of SAPHIRE with a MEDLINE test collection". Journal of the
   American Medical Informatics Association 1:51-60. Hersh, William R.;
   David D. Hickam; and T. J. Leone (1992). "Words, concepts, or both:
   Optimal indexing units for automated information retrieval". Mark E.
   Frisse (ed.) Proceedings of the 16th Annual Symposium on Computer
   Applications in Medical Care, 644-648. Jacobs, Paul S., and Lisa F. Rau
   (1990). "SCISOR: Extracting information from on-line news".
   Communications of the ACM 33(11):88-97. Johnson, Stephen B.; Anthony
   Aguirre; Ping Peng; and James Cimino (1993). "Interpreting natu- ral
   language queries using the UMLS". Charles Safran (ed.) Proceedings of
   the 17th Annual Symposium on Computer Applications in Medical Care,
   294-298. Lewis, David D., and W. Bruce Croft (1990). "Term clustering
   of syntactic phrases". Jean-Luc Vicick (ed.) 13th International
   Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval,
   385-404. Lindberg, Donald A. B.; Betsy L. Humphreys; and Alexa T.
   McCray (1993). "The Unified Medi- cal Language System". Methods of
   Information in Medicine 32:281-291. Mauldin, Michael L. (1991).
   Conceptual Information Retrieval: A Case Study in Adaptive Partial
   Parsing. Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers. 17 McCray, Alexa T.
   (1991). "Extending a Natural Language Parser with UMLS Knowledge". Paul
   D. Clayton (ed.) Proceedings of the 15th Annual Symposium on Computer
   Applications in Medical Care, 194-198. McCray, Alexa T.; Alan R.
   Aronson; Allen C. Browne; Thomas C. Rindflesch; Amir Razi; and Suresh
   Srinivasan (1993). "UMLS knowledge for biomedical language processing".
   Bulle- tin of the Medical Library Association 81:184-194. Rindflesch,
   Thomas C., and Alan R. Aronson. (1993). "Semantic processing in
   information retrieval." Charles Safran (ed.) Proceedings of the 17th
   Annual Symposium on Computer Applications in Medical Care, 611-615.
   Sager, Naomi; Margaret Lyman; Leo J. Tick. Ngo Than Nhan; and Christine
   E. Bucknall (1993). Charles Safran (ed.) Proceedings of the 17th Annual
   Symposium on Computer Applica- tions in Medical Care, 265-268. Salton,
   Gerard (1991). "Development in automatic text retrieval". Science
   253:974-980. Salton, Gerard (1986). "Recent trends in automatic
   information retrieval". F. Rabitti (ed.) Pro- ceedings of the ACM
   Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, 1-10.
   Salton, Gerard, and C. Buckley (1991). Global text matching for
   information retrieval. Science 253:1012-1015. Salton, Gerard, and M. E.
   Lesk (1971). "Information analysis and dictionary construction". Ger-
   ard Salton (ed.) The SMART retrieval system: Experiments in automatic
   document pro- cessing, 115-142. Englewood Cliffs, NH: Prentice-Hall,
   Inc. Schuyler, Peri L.; Alexa T. McCray; and Harold M. Schoolman
   (1989). "A test collection for experimentation in bibliographic
   retrieval". B. Barber, D. Cao, D. Qin, G. Wagner (eds.) MEDINFO 89,
   810-912. Amsterdam: North-Holland. Schwartz, Christoph (1990).
   "Automatic syntactic analysis of free text". Journal of the American
   Society for Information Science 41:408-417. 18 Smeaton, A. F., and C.
   J. van Rijsbergen (1988). "Experiments on incorporating syntactic pro-
   cessing of user queries into a document retrieval strategy".
   Proceedings, 11th International Conference on Research & Development in
   Information Retrieval, 31-51. Sparck Jones, Karen (1986). Synonymy and
   semantic classification. Edinburgh University Press. Sparck Jones, K.,
   and J.I. Tait (1984). "Automatic Search Term Variant Generation".
   Journal of Documentation 40:50-66. Strzalkowski, Tomek, and Barbara
   Vauthey (1992). "Information retrieval using robust natural language
   processing". Proceedings, 30th Annual Meeting of the Association for
   Computa- tional Linguistics, 104-111. Yang, Yiming, and Christopher G.
   Chute (1993). "Words or concepts: The features of indexing units and
   their optimal use in information retrieval". Charles Safran (ed.)
   Proceedings of the 17th Annual Symposium on Computer Applications in
   Medical Care, 685-689. 19
