http://www.oshpd.ca.gov/director/index.htm

   State of California

   Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development
   [USEMAP:oshpd_tabs.gif]
   OSHPD Home Page
   [b2_biography_in.gif]
   Strategic Business Plan
   Special Initiatives and Program Evaluation
   Legislative Affairs
   Public Affairs
   Civil Rights
   Legal Office [carlisle_formal.jpg]

     David M. Carlisle, M.D., Ph.D.

     Director, Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development


     David Carlisle, M.D., Ph.D., was appointed Director of the Office of
     Statewide Health Planning and Development by Governor Gray Davis in
     June of 2000. Dr. Carlisle brings to this appointment nearly 15
     years of health policy and research experience in California.

     Dr. Carlisle manages the Office, which has more than 400 employees
     and a total budget of $52 million. He oversees six divisions and
     five boards/commissions, which are responsible for various
     health-related programs for the State, including health policy;
     outcomes of care; the collection and dissemination of financial,
     utilization and patient discharge data from hospitals, clinics, and
     nursing homes; primary care health manpower development; statewide
     programs to recruit minorities into health professions; rural health
     care systems development; loan insurance for nonprofit health
     facilities; and seismic and life safety regulations of hospitals and
     long-term care facilities.

     Dr. Carlisle is formerly an Associate Professor of Medicine at UCLA
     School of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine and Health
     Services Research, and Consultant at the RAND Health Program. Dr.
     Carlisle is a former Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Clinical Scholar
     and Association for Healthcare Research and Quality fellow.

     An author of numerous articles and publications, Dr. Carlisles work
     highlights his research interests in the areas of access to care,
     quality of care, disparities in care, and medical education,
     particularly as they pertain to vulnerable populations. Among other
     projects, Dr. Carlisle was most recently involved as the Principal
     Investigator of the RAND project "Community-Based Approaches to
     Reducing Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Health," a project to
     provide technical assistance to over 30 community demonstration
     sites funded through the Center for Disease Controls "Racial and
     Ethnic Approaches to Community Health" initiative.

     Dr. Carlisle continues to be an active clinician, serving as a
     volunteer physician at the Venice Family Clinic in Southern
     California. Dr. Carlisle earned his Medical Degree from Brown
     University and Masters in Public Health and Doctorate Degrees from
     the UCLA School of Public Health.



             Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development
             Welcome | Special Initiatives | Legislative Affairs
                Public Affairs | Civil Rights | Legal Office

                            Go to OSHPD HOME PAGE
                             Go to CA HOME PAGE
                              Go to TOP OF PAGE

                Privacy Policy | E-mail the OSHPD Webmaster.

                        Revision Date: April 26, 2001
