http://www.rib.uscourts.gov/registrationinfo.htm

                              [usbcbanner.jpg]

                      Fee and Registration Information

   Beginning November 15, 1999, an access fee of $.07 per page, as
   approved
   by the Judicial Conference of the United States at its Sept. 1998
   session, will
   be assessed for access to bankruptcy case information using the
   internet.
   A login and password, issued by the PACER Service Center, is required
   for
   access to internet case information as well as dial-up PACER. If you do
   not
   already have a PACER account, you may register on-line from the PACER
   Service Center website at http://pacer.psc.uscourts.gov. If you have
   comments, suggestions, or questions, please send email to the PACER
   Service
   Center at pacer@aottsd.uscourts.gov. If your comments pertain to a
   specific
   court, please include the name of that court in your email.

          How do you determine what a page for billing purposes is?

   Generally, a page is defined as 54 lines of data. When charges are
   accrued, a transaction receipt will appear at the bottom of each html
   document. This will indicate the number of pages billed for that
   particular transaction. Detailed descriptions on how document types are
   counted are listed below:

   Dockets: Docket reports are generated with form feeds or page breaks
   marking each page. The number of form feeds or page breaks within each
   docket are counted and used to determine the number of pages for a
   particular docket sheet before the document is reformatted for display
   as a html document. A docket sheet may contain pages with more or less
   than 54 lines. Note, form feeds and page breaks will not appear in the
   html formatted document displayed on the screen.
   Search Results: Search results are also billed at the rate of 54 lines
   per page. Each hit is considered one line. The lines are counted from
   the raw data files before they are formatted for display as a html
   document on the screen.
   Images: Images will be billed according to the number of pages scanned;
   therefore, each scanned page equals one billable page.
   If information retrieved from a PACER web site is printed, the print
   job will not always match the number of pages billed. The number of
   pages printed is dependent on individual printer and browser settings.
   All users are equally charged for the same information regardless of
   the browser settings or printer configurations. A transaction receipt
   and the Review Billing History option are provided in each court site
   for reviewing charges.

                              Back to Main Page

               [usaCLR_cg32.gif]
                                United States Bankruptcy Court
                                District of Rhode Island
