http://gapsy2k.ed.gov/e-News/newsletter.asp?APP=EA

   Department of Education Logo e-GRANTS Logo e-GRANTS Portal
    Release 2.18b


   Newsletter


      Newsletter subscription

                         Email Address

   _____________________
   Subscribe to the Newsletter Unsubscribe to the Newsletter


      To view archived Newsletters, click

      Access archived newsletters


April - June 2001

                                                                               Volume 1.2

       Department of Education Logo

                                                          [Edcaps_new.gif]
   [e-NewsQuarterly.gif]

   A Quarterly Newsletter from EDCAPS/GAPS

     [whatsnewegrants1.gif]

   [bullet.gif] e-Payments

   View Only Access :

   GAPS has been enhanced to provide view only access for users. The view
   only access enhancement provides users with the ability to view payment
   requests, available balances, print activity reports and much more.
   View only access does not provide users the capability to initiate
   payment requests or refunds. To obtain view-only access, users should
   complete and fax the External Security Access Form to the Helpdesk. The
   form can be found on the e-Payments Home Page under 'Downloads'. For
   additional information, please visit the 'FAQ'(Frequently Asked
   Questions) link at the e-Payments Home Page (http://e-grants.ed.gov)
   and then select 'Technical Questions.' In addition, our Helpdesk can be
   reached at 1-888-336-8930.

   Electronic Refunds:

   ED is in the process of resolving the software limitation that only
   allows users with less than fifty (50) awards to utilize the refund
   function. Our target date for completion is mid-June. A message will be
   posted on the e-Payments home page as soon as the fix is complete. For
   detailed instructions on refunds, log onto the e-Grants Website at:
   http://e-grants.ed.gov and select e-Payments. From the e-Payments home
   page, select 'FAQ'.

   Payment Request File Upload Enhancement:

   ED is currently developing functionality to allow recipients to upload
   their payment requests through the e-Payments Website. We anticipate
   that this enhancement will be implemented in September 2001. This
   enhancement will allow users to electronically load their payment
   request information to the GAPS database, via a specified file format.
   ED previously solicited input from the user community and this input
   will be incorporated in the development of the enhancement. Many users
   requested this capability and we wanted to ensure the functionality
   that is provided will meet your needs. A brief description of the File
   Upload enhancement being developed follows.

   Recipients who wish to use this new function will create a payment
   request file containing the required information specified by ED.
   Recipients will log into e-Payments, select the File Upload option and
   process their payment request file. ED will provide the file format
   that must be used. After processing the file, recipients will be
   alerted if any payment request fails. The application will provide
   capability to correct and resubmit any payment request that did not
   successfully process. Upon successful processing of the transactions,
   the user will be provided with a payment control number(s).

   To provide ED feedback or to obtain additional information, email us at
   edcapsuser@ed.gov.

   [bullet.gif]   e-Application

   To date the Department has received 52 e-Applications for grant funding
   in Fiscal Year (FY) 2001. We continue to add competitions to the
   e-Application pilot. Please see the list below for upcoming
   competitions. In addition, we have a Demo available on the
   e-Application site and we encourage potential applicants to try
   e-Application through our Demo. The Demo will take a potential
   applicant through the entire e-Application submission process. We are
   interested in your comments so let us know what you think by completing
   the e-GRANTS survey. (see News Flash in this edition for more detail).
   Additional information can be found at http://e-grants.ed.gov

   [bullet.gif] e-Reports

   To date, ED has received 34 Annual Grant Performance Reports from
   grantees electronically via the web and have 29 discretionary grant
   programs participating in e-Reports. Approximately fifteen additional
   programs are scheduled to pilot e-Reports before the end of FY2001.
   Grantees under participating programs will be notified of the option to
   submit Annual Grant Performance Reports via e-Reports.

   [bullet.gif] e-Reader

   The e-Reader application supports Program Office’s grant technical
   review process. The first two programs to participate in the
   Department's e-Reader pilot were conducted in late April. E-Reader was
   used for the review of applications under the Office of Postsecondary
   Education's Strengthening Institutions Planning Grants (CFDA 84.031A
   and CFDA 84.031T). The review panels consisted of a total of 15 readers
   who reviewed 54 applications and completed their technical evaluation
   forms via the Internet using e-Reader. Five additional programs plan to
   pilot e-Reader in FY2001.

   To see more on e-Grants at ED, visit http://e-grants.ed.gov .
   [hottopics1.gif]

   Due to a decrease in late calls received from our GAPS customers, the
   new GAPS Help Desk hours of operation are 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM- Eastern
   Standard Time, Monday thru Friday except Federal holidays.
     [NewsFlash.gif]

   [bullet.gif] e-News Quarterly Enhancement

   e-News Quarterly is now on-line and accessible through the e-GRANTS
   Portal Page (http://e-grants.ed.gov), just select the 'Newsletter'
   link. Once you have selected the 'Newsletter' link, you can view the
   most recent e-News Quarterly or any previous editions of the
   newsletter. The site also provides the ability to subscribe or
   unsubscribe to the newsletter by simply entering your email address.
   Please visit the newsletter site and if you have not already, take the
   opportunity to subscribe.

   [bullet.gif] e-GRANTS Survey

   The e-GRANTS Survey has been updated and now includes questions
   regarding e-Reports. The comments ED receives from the survey are
   beneficial as we look for ways to better serve our customers. Your
   feedback is important in helping us to achieve this goal. We encourage
   you to take a few minutes and complete the survey located on the
   e-GRANTS portal page, if you submitted an application or report on
   line. If you chose to submit your grant application or report on paper
   to a program participating in one of our FY2001 pilots, you should
   receive a survey in the mail.
     [upcomingevents1.gif]

   Upcoming e-Application Competitions along with tentative closing dates
   (closing dates are subject to change).
   CFDA   Title                            Tent. Closing Date
   327S   Closed Captioned Daytime         5/04/01
   327X   Research Institute               5/04/01
   203G   Star School Program              TBD
   116N   North American Mobility          5/14/01
   060A   Indian Education (Formula)       5/21/01
   194Q   Bilingual State Grant Program    5/30/01
   341A   Community Technology             TBD
   331A   Youth Offenders State Grants     6/01/01
   290U   Bilingual-Compreh. School Grants 6/15/01
   TBD    Tech Prep Demo                   TBD

   To see more on e-Grants at ED or apply electronically, visit
   http://e-grants.ed.gov

     [futureenhancements1.gif]

   [bullet.gif] Redesign of e-GRANTS Web Site

   [RedesignImage.gif]

   In June 2001, users can look forward to a redesign of e-GRANTS, the
   Department of Education's (ED) portal page for electronic grants.

   For the past several months, ED has been involved in an effort to
   redesign the e-GRANTS portal page. This redesign will provide a site
   that is easier to use, more links, and is accessible to ALL users. Not
   only will the homepage be redesigned, but also all of its secondary
   pages, which provide access to ED's entire web-based grant system, will
   be redesigned. This includes:

   e-Application (Electronic Grant Application System), for on-line grant
   applications

   e-Reader (Electronic Peer Review), for grant application peer reviews,

   e-Payments (formerly GAPSWEB) for grants management and payment, and

   e-Reports (Electronic Grant Performance Reporting System) for annual
   grant performance reports.

   In fiscal year 2002, look for a new page, e-Administration, which will
   enable our grant recipients to electronically submit a request for a
   variety of administrative actions to their existing grants, i.e.
   no-cost time extensions, budget changes and changes to key personnel.

   We are very excited about providing electronic services that we believe
   will better serve our customers, as we continue to make every effort to
   comply with the provisions of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act
   (GPEA), P.L. 105-277, Title XVII. GPEA requires agencies, by October
   2003, to provide for the option of electronic maintenance, submission,
   or disclosure of information, when practicable as a substitute for
   paper. To this end, we will continue to make changes to the e-GRANTS
   functionality to meet your needs.
