http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_1218lynx2.htm

   [bar1.jpg]

   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   [bar1.jpg]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) / Tracey Shifflett
   (Tracey.Shifflett@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019

     House Resources Chairman Urges Employee Dismissal and Top-to-Bottom
           Federal Review of Lynx Survey in Wake of Lynx Hair Hoax

       Reps. Hansen & McInnis voice concerns to Interior & Agriculture
                                 Secretaries

   Washington, D.C. - House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen and Forest
   and Forest Health Subcommittee Chairman Scott McInnis today called for
   a thorough review of the government’s three-year inventory on the
   threatened Canada lynx afer learning that five federal employees and
   two Washington State employees planted false evidence of lynx presence
   in two national forests.

   Hansen and McInnis questioned the validity of the inventory in light of
   the hoax and called for the prompt dismissal of involved employees in a
   joint letter to Agriculture Secretary Anne M. Veneman and Interior
   Secretary Gale A. Norton.

   "The credibility of the lynx survey is now hanging by a thread," the
   men wrote the two cabinet members. In a Dec. 13^th letter to Congress,
   the Forest Service asserted that the integrity of the lynx program is
   being maintained. But no evidence was offered to support that claim,
   Reps. Hansen and McInnis noted in their letter. They urged the two
   departments to provide proof of the program’s integrity in light on the
   discovered hoax.

   "The lynx survey impacts 16 states and 57 national forests," Hansen
   said. "Getting this survey wrong could have broad and profound impact
   on the management of millions of acres of federal land. That, in turn,
   impacts local economies and people’s livelihoods."

   "Planting false evidence of lynx presence would limit the use of
   natural resources in forest wrongly believed to be lynx habitat,"
   Hansen said. "It would limit people’s access to those forests. I would
   virtually destroy recreational opportunities there. That, in turn,
   could be devastating to nearby local economies that rely on business
   from tourists and recreationists. This hoax, if it hadn’t been
   discovered, could have wrecked some people’s way of life. These
   involved employees should be promptly fired and the entire national
   inventory review for proven accuracy."

   The hoax took place last fall, in the waning months of the Clinton
   Administration. Five federal employees and two Washington State
   employees have admitted to planting three separate sample of Canadian
   lynx hair on rubbing posts in the Gifford Pinchot and Wenatchee
   National Forest. The rubbing posts were being used to identify the
   presence of the cat. The employees claimed they were conducting their
   own test of reliability of the federal inventory.

                                     ###
