http://nvm.jpl.nasa.gov/announcement_and_call.htm

           The Symposium was a Resounding and Outstanding Success!

      Our Thanks go out to everyone who worked so hard to see that this
            Symposium was as Informative and Complete as it was.

                              SEE YOU NEXT YEAR

                                     at

                                  NVMTS2002

        Please watch this website for details on our next Symposium!


               Click Here to Join our Electronic Mailing list.



                           SYMPOSIUM ANNOUNCEMENT

   The demands for storage technology is ever increasing: burdening all
   designers – systems and components alike – to bring ingenuity to the
   next level. How long can the demand for breakthrough developments keep
   going? What’s around the corner? And where will it take us?

   Recent seminars and symposia tended to focus on one technology over
   another.  This symposium, however, is aimed at distilling information
   about all technologies – to users, inventors, and investors alike.

   This Symposium is organized with three intents:
    1. To inform and update the users of Non-Volatile Memory Technology
       with the recent breakthroughs and advances.
    2. To make evident the needs and desires of such technology in light
       of NASA and DOD functions and missions (terrestrial, space, deep
       space) and to make evident the funding sources available.
    3. To encourage and establish a dialogue between the Manufacturers of
       technology and the Users of it.

     Last Year's Symposium was such a rousing success, we're holding it
                                   again!

   Symposium Date and Location
   NVMTS2001 will be held in beautiful, San Diego, California, November 7
   & 8, 2001
   Click Here for more information

   CALL FOR PAPERS

   Papers are solicited from any party who wishes to contribute to the
   dissemination of information regarding any aspect of Non-Volatile
   Memory Storage technology. See below for categories of
   interest.

   PAPER SUBMITTAL DEADLINES

   The period for submittal of Abstracts and Papers has closed.

   Late Papers will be considered on a space-available basis.

   PROGRAM

   The Symposium Program evidences the importance of this event.  Several
   presenters have indicated to the Committee that they will make
   World-Announcements of exciting products and breakthroughs.

   SECURITY

   All Sessions and Papers of the Symposium are Unclassified.

   INDUSTRIAL EXHIBIT

   An Industrial Exhibit will be conducted during the Symposium.  Be sure
   to visit the companies who have taken this opportunity to visit with
   you.

   BROCHURE

   A copy of our brochure is available NVMTS Brochure

   MAILING LIST
   We utilize an electronic mail system for notification of those who are
   interested in our programs and updates.  If you are interested in
   joining the mail list, please send a blank email to this address:
   join-nvmts@list.jpl.nasa.gov .    Conversely, we understand it if you
   wish to be dropped from the mailing list.  To do so, please send a
   blank email to this address:  unsubscribe-nvmts@list.jpl.nasa.gov


     Announcement | Program | Registration | Invited Speakers | Invited
          Papers | Committee | Calendar | Lodging | Paper Submittal
