http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/software/software.html

   Jump to Page Content

   NOAA OR&R Home / Oil Spill Aids / Oil Spill Software

   Software for Oil Spill Responders and Planners

   Home Page

   Site Index

   About Us

   Oil Spill Aids

   Chemical Aids

   Coastal Chemicals

   For Kids

   Image Gallery

   Available Products

   Site Search

   GNOME The General NOAA Oil Modeling Environment) is an oil trajectory
   model, which predicts how wind, currents, and other processes might
   move and spread oil spilled on the water. It can be downloaded for free
   from this site. (webposted 3/16/99)

   ADIOS The Automated Data Inquiry for Oil Spills (ADIOS) program is an
   oil weathering model that runs on personal computers and incorporates
   an extensive database of crude oils and petroleum products. ADIOS 2, a
   new, upgraded version, was webposted on 12/28/2000.

   TAP The Trajectory Analysis Planner (TAP) shows how spilled oil might
   move and spread within a particular body of water, and how it might
   affect sensitive sites, such as seabird rookeries or marine mammal
   hauling grounds.

   DOGS The Digital Optimization of Grid Systems (DOGS) program analyzes a
   large set of bathymetric data, creating from it a smaller set of
   optimized points describing the same geographic region. It can be
   downloaded for free from this site.

   Electronic ICS Forms An electronic version of the ICS forms, which you
   can download and use. (webposted 7/15/98; updated 6/21/2000)

   Spill Tools A set of free programs designed for oil spill planners and
   responders, which you can download and use. (webposted 6/22/98)

Our Other Software

     * CAMEO The Computer-Aided Management of Emergency Response (CAMEO)
       package is used by hazardous materials responders and planners in
       the US and around the world.
     * The Chemical Reactivity Worksheet A free program you can download
       and use to find out about the reactivity of chemicals and how
       chemicals might react if accidentally mixed.
     * Watershed and Database Mapping Projects You can order CD-ROMs
       containing support tools for specific watersheds that combine the
       use of a standard database structure, database-mapping application
       (Query Manager), and GIS.

   Revised: July 18, 2001
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
