http://www-ntd.lbl.gov/vcs/



    [Brk.gif] Lawrence Berkeley Lab


    Video Broadcast &


    Teleconferencing Services




   Video Conferencing Services

   Managed by the Networking and Telecommunications Department
   Communications Facilities group, the service provides videoconferencing
   rooms, equipment and reservation services to enable individuals or
   groups to collaborate face-to-face with colleagues anywhere in the
   world. To find out more, or to schedule a conference and room, contact
   the Video Conferencing group or call Ext 6767. Our equipment can act as
   a web server to send PowerPoint presentations over the Internet and
   supports audio conferences.

   Streaming Video using RealPlayer

   Managed by the Networking and Telecommunications Department
   Communications Facilities group, the service broadcasts live and
   prerecorded video on demand programs to the desktop using the
   Realnetworks Realplayer application. All you need is the free version
   of RealPlayer 8 Basic. If you wish to test the RealPlayer installation
   simply do the following:

   Due to differnet desktop configurations we suggest you first start the
   RealPlayer application then cut and past or enter the following address
   into the RealPlayer URL location:

   Http://128.3.3.41:8080/scalable/live.rm.sdp to receive a multicast
   transmission. This is the preferred method

   Should the http multicast entry not work, or if on a non LBL network,
   then enter the following unicast address in the Realplayer URL
   location:

   Rtsp://128.3.3.41:554/encoder/live.rm (May click on address if using
   IE)

   Please note: (Only 200 unicast streams are available for transmission)

   In either case either a live local presentation or a C-Span broadcast
   should begin to play after a few second delay.

   To view stored programs, go to: www-cnr.lbl.gov/vcs/vsprograms.html

   Or to view TEID created programs, go to: TEID Video Services

   Satellite Broadcasts

   Managed by the Networking and Telecommunications Department
   Communications Facilites group, the service distributes live satellite
   broadcasts to selected conference rooms. Both the 50 and 66 Auditoriums
   are able to receive satellite video programs. To schedule a broadcast
   call Ext. 6767.

   Video Services

   Managed by the Technical and Electronic Information Department (TEID)
   Video Services has the skills and equipment to create professional,
   cost-effective video productions. Video services will also assist you
   to edit and broadcast your recorded video programs over the lab wide IP
   network. Contact Video Services for more details.

     Disclaimers , Copyrights

   Comments
