http://www.prpt.uscourts.gov/projects.htm



   As an alternative to detention, a defendant could be placed in either
   total or partial house arrest at his/her place of residence. It could
   be used for both, to reasonably assure his/her future court appearances
   and the safety of the community. The defendant's physical presence is
   monitored by an electronic device connected to the telephone line. This
   device detects a signal from a bracelet that is placed in the client's
   ankle.

   The Electronic Monitoring Program has been operating in our district
   since 1988, being Pretrial Services the first office in Puerto Rico to
   implement the same. If you have any questions regarding this program,
   please contact Electronic Monitoring Specialist Rafael Gelpí-Pérez at
   Rafael_Gelpi@prpt.uscourts.gov.


   The Drug Aftercare and Mental Health Programs also provide an
   alternative to detention for defendants whose future court appearances
   and/or safety of the community can reasonably be assured with proper
   attention to their treatment needs. These services can be provided on
   an outpatient or inpatient basis.

   These alternatives are most effective when used with pretrial
   supervision, as the pretrial services office has access to treatment
   providers and can effectively monitor the defendant's treatment and
   his/her compliance with release conditions. Drug abuse and/or mental
   health treatment may reduce or eliminate behavior which would interfere
   with Court appearances, as well as the potential for dangerous
   behavior.

   If you have any questions or need further information, please contact
   Drug Aftercare Specialist, José R. López at
   José_Lopez@prpt.uscourts.gov.


   As an alternative to criminal prosecution, the United States Attorney
   may seek to divert certain candidates from traditional criminal justice
   processing. This program of community supervision is administered by
   Pretrial Services in the District of Puerto Rico. A referral from the
   U.S. Attorney's Office may occur prior or subsequent to the formal
   filing of charges. Pretrial Services conducts an investigation and
   submits a report determining the client's eligibility and
   recommendations as to the time frame of the diversion period (no longer
   than 18 months) and any special condition(s). Once approved, a Pretrial
   Diversion Agreement is signed. In this agreement, the client waives
   his/her right to a jury trial in exchange for an expungement of his/her
   record and/or avoid formal prosecution upon successful completion of
   the same. If the client violates the conditions of the agreement, the
   U.S. Attorney could initiate criminal prosecution for the charges
   originally diverted.

                     Office 691, Federico Degetau Bldg.
                           150 Carlos Chardon St.
                           Hato Rey, PR 00918-1724
                   Tel. (787) 772-3000 Fax: (787) 766-5651
     Copyright © 1999 US District Court for the District of Puerto Rico

                          Design & Programming by:
                                NoMO Designs
