http://www.dfrc.nasa.gov/Projects/X38/index.html

   Skip Top nav bar link group Business Education Employment FOIA Gallery
   News Room Organizations Research Search This is a link to the Site
   Index

   NASA Meatball Banner of Dryden Flight Research Center

   Skip side nav bar link group

   Return to Current Projects

   X-38 Home Page

   Technical Plan

   Goals and Objectives

   Phase 1

   Phase 2

   Phase 3

   Phase 4

   Related Studies

   Project Summary





   blue footer with lines

   white space Home : Research : Current Projects : X-38 image of a gray
   corner
   white space
   X-38 collage

X-38 Technology

   The X-38 design uses a lifting body concept originally developed by the
   U.S. Air Force's X-24A project in the mid-1960s. Following the jettison
   of a deorbit engine module, the X-38 will glide from orbit unpowered
   like the Space Shuttle and then use a steerable, parafoil parachute, a
   technology recently developed by the Army, for its final descent to
   landing. Its landing gear consists of skids rather than wheels.
   Just because it is off-the-shelf technology doesn't mean it is old
   technology. Many of the technologies we are using have never before
   been applied to a human spacecraft. The X-38 flight computer is
   commercial equipment that is already in use in aircraft, and the flight
   software operating system is a commercial system already in use in many
   aerospace applications. The video equipment being used on the
   atmospheric test vehicles is existing equipment, some of which has
   already flown on the Space Shuttle for other NASA experiments. The
   electro-mechanical actuators that are used on the X-38 come from a
   previous joint NASA, Air Force and Navy research and development
   project. A special coating that had already been developed by NASA is
   planned for use on the X-38 thermal tiles to make them much more
   durable than the tiles used on the Space Shuttle. The X-38's primary
   navigational equipment, the Inertial Navigation System/Global
   Positioning System, is a unit already in use on military aircraft.

Utility

   Although the design could one day be modified for other uses such as a
   crew transport vehicle, the X-38 would strictly be used as a CRV in its
   current design. It is baselined with only enough life support supplies
   to last about nine hours flying free of the space station in orbit. The
   spacecraft's landing will be totally automated, although the crew will
   have the capability to switch to backup systems, control the
   orientation in orbit, pick a deorbit site, and steer the parafoil, if
   necessary. The X-38 has a nitrogen gas-fueled attitude control system
   and uses a bank of batteries for power. The CRV spacecraft will be 30
   feet long, 14.5 feet wide and weigh a little over 20,000 pounds.

Beginnings

   A small, in-house development study of the X-38 concept first began at
   JSC in early 1995, and, in the summer of 1995, early flight tests were
   conducted of the parafoil concept, dropping platforms with a parafoil
   from an aircraft at the Army's Yuma Proving Ground, Yuma, Arizona. In
   early 1996, a contract was awarded to Scaled Composites, Inc., of
   Mojave, Calif., for the construction of three full-scale atmospheric
   test airframes. The first vehicle airframe was delivered to JSC in
   September 1996, where it was outfitted with avionics, computer systems
   and other hardware in preparation for flight tests at Dryden. The
   second vehicle was delivered to JSC in December 1996.
   Further testing will include an unpiloted space flight test in late
   2000, and the new century could see the CRV attached to the
   International Space Station. It is estimated that the total projected
   cost of the X-38's development through the completion of two space test
   vehicles could be less than $80 million. About 100 people are currently
   working on the project at Dryden Flight Research Center and Johnson
   Space Center.

Current Status

   The first X-38, known as Vehicle 131, arrived at Dryden on June 4,
   1997, aboard an Air Force C-17 transport aircraft and made its maiden
   flight in March of 1998. The second aircraft, V132, was delivered to
   Dryden in September, 1998 and should fly in February, 1999. V132
   contains the full lifting body flight control system that allows the
   vehicle to fly autonomously prior to parafoil deployment. The space
   flight vehicle, V201, is nearing structural completion at JSC in
   Houston. Meanwhile, the parafoils are undergoing continuous improvement
   tests at Yuma Proving Grounds.

   X-38 Fact Sheet X-38 Photo Server Images X-38 Movie Clips X-38 Graphics
                                                             Gallery
   white space blank space image of gray corner
   white space
   Skip bottom nav bar link group Business | Education | Employment | FOIA
   | Gallery | Newsroom | Organizations | Research | Search | Site Index
   white space

   Last Modified: February 13, 2001
   Responsible NASA Official: Jenny Baer-Riedhart
   PAO Webmasters
   NASA Web Privacy Statement
