http://treasurer.maricopa.gov/newsletters/0110Newsletter.pdf

   Fall 2001 Todd Talks PayStation Is Here! Treasurer Doug Todd
   demonstrates PayStation. The 2001 tax season is officially on-line for
   public use. Taxpayers can The PayStation accepts cash, checks or
   underway and the tax and informa- make payments at the PayStation money
   orders. If paying with cash, the tax- tion statements are in the mail!
   Our between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. when the payer will not receive change
   back, Bill Payment Terminal pilot project is about County
   Administration building is open. instead the overage will be credited
   to to get a real test since about 40,000 tax- The PayStation will allow
   the taxpayer to future taxes. The PayStation issues a payers come
   downtown to receipt to the taxpayer for pay their property taxes the
   payment transaction. every year. At this time the PayStation "The
   payment process from start to finish Easy to Use and will not accept
   multiple is less than one minute for the taxpayer." Bilingual parcel
   payments. The The Bill Payment Terminal equipment is designed for (aka
   PayStation) is in the a single transaction. The lobby of the
   Treasurer's Office and is now pay their current property tax and imme-
   payment process from start to finish is less diately get a receipt via
   an easy to use self- than one minute for the taxpayer. service terminal
   that guides the user through the payment process with color Future
   Plans Economic Outlook 2 touch screens and interactive graphics.
   Eventually, the Treasurer's Office hopes to The PayStation also uses
   voice prompts in have other units located at various loca- either
   English or Spanish. tions throughout the County, allowing tax- Top Five
   Taxpayers 3 payers to pay in person at "satellite" facili- How it Works
   ties and walk away with a receipt in hand. Property Taxes - The
   taxpayer uses their property tax pay- We will keep you posted on future
   devel- Sources & Uses 3 ment stub to begin the payment process.
   opments. In the Spotlight Back Cover NSIDE The Treasurer's Office is
   located at 301 West Jefferson Street, Ste. 100 Hours of operation - 8
   a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays I On th e Economic Front By Mike Roberts
   Uncertainty seems to be Normally, these numbers traditional-
   Post-attack uncertainty. emerging as the theme in ly spark impressive
   rallies in the There is still a sense that any pre- the latter half of
   2001. bond market, but not this time. attack data is somehow less
   perti- Uncertainty in investments, uncer- Probably several factors were
   at nent when we don't know how the work here. tainty in business
   decision making economy is going to look post- and uncertainty in life.
   Investors, September 11. The Bureau of Labor The stimulus debate.
   consumers and corporate decision Statistics said that September 11
   Right now, any evidence of weak- likely had little impact on the makers
   are all watching the after- ness enhances the fear that the employment
   figures, which means shocks of September 11 ripple stimulus package is
   going to be big we have to wait a month to see what through the economy
   and many enough to quickly eat through the really happened in
   September. have been sidelined by the strain of remaining surplus.
   Hence, econom- trying to guess what will happen ic weakness will
   eventually boost For the time being, uncertainty next. So it was last
   week when the Treasury supply. breeds volatility, which is likely to be
   non-farm payrolls fell by 199,000 the defining factor in the markets
   for and the bond market didn't move. Systemic problems. weeks to come.
   We continue to Cantor Fitzgerald was the consum- expect lower yields,
   but it will not be mate bond broker, accounting for as There were a few
   positive surprises a smooth, continuous process. Until much as
   two-thirds of the Treasury in the report, such as a small the economy
   settles and we have a market volume. The Bank of New increase in the
   workweek and no better idea of what kind of fiscal plan York was a big
   player in the settle- rise in unemployment, but these is in the works,
   some back and fill in ment process. Both saw their busi- were far
   outweighed by the nega- Treasuries is inevitable. ness badly disrupted
   on September tives, including the much bigger than 11 resulting in a
   shortage of bonds expected drop in payrolls and the Most economists
   expect the Federal and a jump in failed trades. first significant loss
   of service jobs Open Market Committee (FOMC) to since 1991. Aggregate
   hours lower the target Fed Funds and The prepay factor. worked fell
   3.1% in the third quarter, Discount rates again when they Mortgage
   prepayments reached which clearly was a surprise to some meet November
   6th by at least 25 record levels last week as refinanc- economists who
   continue to forecast basis points. The last move on ing homeowners took
   advantage of a rise in the Gross Domestic Product October 2nd dropped
   the rates to new lows in mortgage rates. After (GDP). After all, the
   only way GDP the lowest levels since JFK was being bounded between 7.1%
   and can rise if aggregate hours fall is if president. We can expect to
   see 6.9% for months, thirty-year mort- productivity more than offsets
   the declining yields on Pool funds for the gage rates have fallen well
   below drop. How can anyone forecast a next several months with a turn
   6.5%. Prepayments often leave 3% plus rise in productivity with a
   around probably no earlier than sec- managers of hedged mortgage posi-
   straight face at a time when hun- ond quarter 2002. tions forced to
   scramble to cover dreds of thousands of workers sit short bond
   positions, a process idle, waiting for their sixty days even more
   difficult with failed trades notice to pass before they join the also
   breaking records. The result ranks of the unemployed? has been big
   gyrations in yields that sidelined regular investors. Property Taxes:
   Sources and Uses The 2001 tax year marks the first year Property Taxes
   R Property T evenue Sources ax Sources; Dollars* of combining of the
   personal property with the real property tax bills. The Development
   Development Commerical merging of the tax rolls will be completed
   Commercial Residential 5% Residential 5% 24% 24% next year when mobile
   home accounts are 47% 47% added. As a result, the combined tax roll for
   this year is 1,255,446 parcels/accounts; a 12.6 percent increase over
   last year. The Recreatio Recreational unified levy for this new,
   combined tax roll 4% 4% equals $2,595,278,869. Utilities Utilities
   Arizona statute allows for property taxes Retail 8% Retail 8% Medical
   Svcs Medical 10% totalling more than $100 to be paid in two 2% Svcs 10%
   installments, the first half must be paid by 2% November 1, the second
   half by May 1 of the following year. Property T Property T axes At W
   axes at W ork ork* Tax rates vary by property classification. County
   For example commercial property is taxed at Cities & County 10% 25% of
   the full cash value whereas owner- Towns 10% Cities & Towns occupied
   residential property is taxed at 15% 15% 10% of the full cash value.
   Arizona statutes exempt some property from taxes such as government
   (federal, state, county and municipal) and religious property. Property
   taxes are allocated 75 percent to Education education, 15 percent to
   cities and towns 75% Education and 10 percent to Maricopa County for
   fund- *Source: Maricopa County Treasurer's 75% ing of public services
   such as Health Care, Office Data Base Public Safety, Courts, etc.
   Maricopa County Treasurer Investments Portfolio Report 2 2 2 200 0 000
   0 011 1 1 September 30, 2001 T T T TO O O OP P P P FF F FIIIIV V V VE E
   E E T T T TA A A AX X X XP P P PA A A AY Y Y YE E E ER R R RS S S S No.
   of Par Value Avg Days Avg Issue Name Investments in Millions to
   Maturity YTM Arizona Public Service FCDN Farm Cred Disc Note 2 26.100 7
   2.818 FFCB Fed Farm Cred Bank 2 13.575 873 5.550 FHDN Fed Hm Ln Bnk
   Disc US West Note 4 61.000 10 2.631 Communications FHLB Fed Home Loan
   Bank 47 437.585 650 5.721 FHLMC Fed Hm Ln Mtg Corp 12 125.470 804 4.956
   Southern California FMCDN Fed Hm Ln Mtg Corp Disc Note 5 42.000 109
   3.407 Edison Co. FNDN Fed Natl Disc Note 8 130.825 8 2.382 FNMA Fed
   Natl Mtg Assoc 44 476.445 723 5.676 El Paso Electric Co. SLMA Student
   Ln Mkt Assoc 1 19.350 939 5.331 $1,332.350 575 5.026 Motorola Inc. In
   the Spotlight: Web Site Aids data entry. As of this writing that ances,
   agency-specific transaction related workload has decreased details, and
   warrant status inquiry. School Districts 70% in Finance. Users can see
   the current balances in all of the GL accounts without W calling the
   Treasurer's accounting arrant maintenance has Agency Accounting
   department. File transfer capabili- been added to the Web Site Stats
   ties will be added soon. This will Treasurer's accounting September
   2001 allow participating agencies to send web site. It allows each
   participat- files over the Internet that now must ing school district
   to add and edit Total Hits 10,894 be delivered by courier on comput-
   their manual warrants. Fifteen inde- er tapes. pendent school districts
   with over Unique Visitors 76 100 registered users have been The web
   site is open to any author- reducing paperwork and reducing ized agency
   or district in Maricopa errors. The former method of war- County that
   issues warrants or has rant maintenance required districts The web site
   also provides district GL accounts with the Treasurer. to send
   paperwork to the County accounting inquiry with real-time Finance
   department for centralized access to general ledger (GL) bal- For
   information on accessing the web site, contact Blair Bradshaw, Manager
   Accounting Services at blair.bradshaw@mail.maricopa.gov or (602)
   506-6169. Registration forms can be printed from the web site at
   https://treasurer.maricopa.gov/agency/Forms/forms.html. Jim Hogan Chief
   Deputy Treasurer Michael Roberts Investment Officer Joe Hamblin Editor
