http://www.rdc.noaa.gov/~nfo/FOintro.html

                                      DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                             NOAA Logo



           dot image Organizational Chart
                     (Coming Soon)
           dot image Personnel Directory
                     (Coming Soon)

           dot image Privacy Statement
           dot image Mission Statement
           dot image Vision Statement
           dot image Goals
           dot image F.O. - Critical Job Information
           dot image Fair Act Inventory New

                                      Transportation Subsidy:


           dot image Application for Subsidy Program
           dot image Presentation
           dot image Scheduling Dates for Transportation Subsidy

                                   Facilities Office Divisions:


           dot image Management Budget & Information Division
           dot image Facilities Services Division
           dot image Facilities Acquisition & Management Division
           dot image Environmental Compliance
                     and Safety Division

                                      Information Management:

         dot image FIMS Entry Portal
                   (Access to Facilities Office Information Systems)

                             Sites of Interest:

                         NOAA Management Information

                    Office of Finance and Administration

                     Site last updated:26 November 2001

                                 Welcome...
     The Facilities Office (FO) is responsible for acquiring and operating
   facilities.  It is the focal point for providing an integrated approach
              to planning for NOAA's long range infrastructure.

   Thank you for visiting the F
   acilities Office website.

                                Gary R. Knebel
                                  Director
                               (301) 713-9054



                                  bar image

   Mission Statement  up arrow image
   bar image
   Our mission is to plan, maintain, and support NOAA's Facilities to meet
   its mission.

   Vision Statement  up arrow image
   bar image
   We are recognized as value-added, strategic business partners providing
   world class facilities and services for our customers.

   Strategic Goals  up arrow image
   bar image
   Goal 1:   Implement an effective strategic planning process that
   enables NOAA to achieve desired facility results (the right facilities
   in the right configuration in the right locations at the right time to
   meet mission needs).

   Goal 2: Formulate, build advocacy for, and obtain funding that matches
   mission requirements and customer expectations for facilities and
   services.

   Goal 3: Establish effective partnerships and working relationships with
   key players at all levels.

   Goal 4: Provide efficient and effective access to facility related
   information anytime and anywhere (24 hours/7 days a week).

                               up arrow image
