http://tccr.oar.noaa.gov/Meetings/06-28-96minutes.html

                        TCCR Videoconference Meeting
                                June 28, 1996


   Date and Place for next meeting: End of September in Boulder

   1. CMAC

   CMAC requested TCCR/CMAC meetings be quarterly phone meetings.

   Succession within the CMAC:
   Replace 2 of the 4 each year. (Two are retiring) Maintain  the
       Boulder/non-Boulder balance. Each member serves a 2 year  term.
       Proposal for $49K to buy some extra hardware for labs that  didn't
       benefit from  HPCC. John Calder's  response: No money for this, but
       asked Kevin to keep this in  mind. Not dead, but not likely.
       Perhaps at end of the FY if  any funds remain.

   NIST/ERL Funds status

   Accounting of funds is in the CMAC minutes. Everyone  received $40K
       distribution. FY97 Proposal: $100K each lab's technology
       refreshment, $100-200K  to be considered by CMAC for supercomputing
       (proposal based),  balance of funds designated for ERL-wide
       proposals - TCCR  to submit options to CMAC for consideration. One
       proposal  is conference-room-to-conference room videoconferencing.
       No extra money in FY96, so desktop videoconference option  will be
       considered by ERL HQ ($10K - Connectix is a  possible vendor).

   Distribution of funds to OD
   CMAC: Conditionally approved providing NIST/ERL funds are protected so
       that  it is used as originally intended. John Calder: CMAC members
       want to ensure the funds go to what they were originally  intended
       for, i.e., computing.

   Video Conference
   Asked for $10K... $800 per lab soundcard, microphone, software,
       whiteboard software.  (Both PC and Mac versions available) Kevin
       suggests using this  on PCS (dedicated) to ensure compatibility,
       then experiment  with variations as we become comfortable with the
       technology.
       May wish to use Connectix over ACU-See-Me@ product because of
       smoother  operations and whiteboard software. How would we use it?
       TCCR would  install the system, evaluate the technology, and decide
       how  best to begin process giving users opportunities to become
       familiar with it. We might wish to prove the technology  first,
       then decide on usage.
       John Calder: once up and running, would like to test it  with the
       Directors office, OD in Boulder, JIs, etc. Then try  out with the
       Lab Directors.
       13 copies for the labs plus one for Britt's area (Associate
       Director's office  in Boulder), total 14 copies.
       Action: Agreed to proceed. Kevin will prepare a proposal  for 14
       units and submit to Calder.

   Revising Internetworking Plan
   CMAC agreed to recommend to ERL Director that Plan be adopted  as the
       ERL networking visionary document. TCCR will update it  each year
       with brief supplements as to status of each lab. HPCC  Regional Hub
       folks will continue to contribute. As long as  the elements in the
       visionary part remain valid, we will keep  them (not change them
       yearly)
       Paul Lu: The document should serve 3 objectives: vision,
       requirements/goals for all of the labs (connectivity,  support,
       etc), support document for future funding  initiatives.

   Kevin: Action items- by early October, CMAC would like the TCCR to
   provide a specific list of what TCCR would like to accomplish in FY 97.

   Paul Quicker: Action Item: Send the document around for review.

   TCCR Members: Action Item: Add FY 96 information, put the document on
   the WWW by October 1996. Does the TCCR have a homepage for TCCR stuff.
   Britt: It could be in DC on Paul's Machine or in Boulder on Britt's
   server. Each with restricted access.

   Action Item: (Britt) set up a directory/homepage for TCCR materials

   TCCR Lab Infrastructure Updates (Sept)
   TCCR Members: Action Item:
       (KK)

     * Get infrastructure requirements to management by October. ($100K)
     * Get TCCR ERL-wide Aoptions@ to CMAC by Sept.

   CMAC: Teleconferences worked well. Just make sure  materials are
   distributed ahead of time. Next TCCR meeting  should be held before the
   CMAC Meeting (early October).

   Paul Lu asked what is Health of the Atmosphere? NIST/ERL  funds were
   reprogrammed for this project. JC: HOA was OAR's highest priority; for
   that reason we put more base into the programming $500K from  OAR,
   $500K from NOAA, Congress $10M - Congress didn't come through. Paul Lu:
   CMAC  Directors were concerned about this move. Sandy MacDonald and
   Hugo  Bezdek had very strong concerns. Kevin: Directors expressed  the
   desire that they be allowed to make the decision which  program they
   wish to draw the funds from rather than have the  decision to use the
   computer funds made for them.

   CMAC & John Calder reaffirmed the TCCR and CMAC roles:  CMAC =
   management body, TCCR = technical body.

   2. ESDIM Proposal
   Kevin Kelleher, Don Mock, Jim Holbrook, Britt Bassett met  with ESDIM
       (Jamerson and Turnbull) to discuss Britt's proposal to expand
       content of what is available on the Internet. What is ESDIM
       interested in funding these days? The concept of a  demonstration
       project for the central HPCC hub region (or perhaps  even ERL-wide)
       was discussed, similar to what occurred in  western HPCC hub
       region. Jamerson (ESDIM) was interested in  considering funding
       these types of proposals. Before the CMAC  meeting there were
       indications that they were not interested.
       Action Item: TCCR /ERL needs to decide if  we want to focus on a
       region, a campus, ERL wide, etc. ESDIM  is looking for specific
       proposals.
       Britt: Network can be used to help a distributed  organization feel
       more like a community. Leverage ESDIM and  HPCC hardware with other
       funds for content/administrative  type things. Don Mock: ESDIM
       would appreciate it we could  cross-LO and cross DOC. Kevin: the
       broader the proposal, the more ESDIM  was interested.
       Action Item: (Britt) Work with TCCR members to  refine draft
       proposal to ESDIM; Final proposal for FY97 due  by August.

   3. New HQ Communications Procedures
   Focus: Calls for annual IRM requirements and Security Plan updates.
       IRM: Everyone aware of the problem with the IRM call this  year.
       Kevin and John Calder have a proposal. Met with Bob  Kidwell, IRM
       Chief. TCCR would collect the information and  Paul will be the
       central POC (IRM contact). Paul would  collate the material and
       write an overview each year. Sandy  Wine has done this for us in
       the past. John Calder mentioned  that Chandrakant felt that if  ERL
       swore to faithfully represent SG and NURP, then ERL could  be the
       lead in this process for OAR. Yesterday, Kidwell gave the FY96  ERL
       the plan based on our input. We have 10 days to comment  and return
       the document. Sandy Wine (IRM) has put a page  together with all of
       the IRM info on it. Don Mock: in the  future we need to maximize
       the use of the WWW for this.
       Action Item: (Paul Quicker) July 22nd will brief  the department on
       OAR=s IRM plan.
       Action Item: (Paul Quicker) Distribute the IRM  Plan. Deadline for
       comments 1 week. (TCCR) Get comments back  to Paul within a week.
       Question on the IG: JC: IG will investigate OAR's management. No
       indication that they will get down to the detail of the IRM
       Plan/Security Plan. However, they will.
       Another set of IG people is investigating Kidwell's office as to
       how the overall  IRM plan/system works.
       Security Plan: Kevin K. met with Becky Vasvary. She gave  us list
       detailing what OAR needs to complete. Three things  needed Security
       Plan, Risk Analysis, Disaster Recovery. A130  document has been
       updated which changes a few of the  requirements. Becky will get us
       what we need and will. No  known deadline. Becky is in charge of
       all of NOAA. (GFDL)  Deadline- target deadline of may for GFDL.
       GFDL 20-25 pages.
       Process: Paul will get info from Becky Vasvary - TCCR/Labs  will
       work with Paul.
        Action Item: (Paul Quicker) Contact Becky and  get a copy of each
       lab's current  plan and a copy of GFDL's  plan that was
       successfully accredited and mail copies to the  TCCR members. The
       TCCR members will see that the information  is given to the
       appropriate person in their lab.
       There is software for the risk analysis and disaster  recovery.
       Each line office has a copy. Dave Berklund has the  software. GFDL
       used a package from Los Alamos.
       Action Item: Kevin will get the software from Dave  Berklund and
       will get it to the security coordinators.
       Action Item: (Paul Quicker) Research which plan is  most concise
       and accepted.

   4. HPCC Update (Britt)
   Regional/campus efforts going pretty well. Coordinating  efforts with
       ESDIM more recently. Funds are not getting to  the field labs not
       collocated with the HPCC hub sites. Most  recent activity revolves
       around the Java subprojects. Doing  well at getting NOAA folks
       together and fostering  communication across LOs. HPCC expects
       request for next year's proposals within the  next month or two.
       Working on getting greater exposure for Central  and Eastern
       regions.
       HPCC Java- If you have an interest in Java development.  Training
       money is available. Contact your HPCC rep. (East  talk to CAPT
       Turnbull and Janet Ward) HPCC page will soon  have a mailing list
       (majordomo@boulder.noaa.gov) and a www  page. Several Java working
       groups have already been formed.  Consistent metrics being
       supported.

   NAO-14
   NAO was quietly signed, sealed, and delivered sometime  during the
       middle of May. Amendments can be added in the  future. We will try
       to get the regional component into it. The  frustrating part is
       that OAR management signed off before the  working group was
       finished commenting. NAOs are available  over the WWW through RDC.

   IP Wars
   Bloody battles seem to be over. During the May 15th NARB meeting key
       items  were resolved. They divided the argument up 1) DC has
       routing  issues to resolve (ANS 10 megabit link). NASA science
       Internet  have to take of the routing, but both can exist.
       Importance  of resolving this was driven home when the NASA
       science  Internet went down for 15 hours during the Web
       conference.  Last sticking point is working with some folks in NWS
       about getting  their routers to the NOC.
       Other issue centers on the use of the 140.90 IP space.  Decision -
       best way to proceed is for DC area to look within  their network
       and clarify what subnets are being used and  which aren't.
       Determine  how much space is being used, etc. At the moment, the
       pressure  is off that address space may be taken from outside DC to
       fix  this problem. During the meeting there was a general
       recognition  that GFDL, Boulder, and PMEL are not the culprits and
       it is  fine for them to have Class Bs. Silver Spring NOC folks
       feel  progress is being made, but slowly.
       Russ: if you have IP address you wish to combine, HPCC is willing
       to entertain proposals for funding the cost.

   5. Mail Hub & ASC network
   ASC Network will use the upgraded frame relay network when  complete.
       The Mail Hub project will provide an E-mail  platform intended to
       combine various distributed NOAA  gateways into a single X.500
       gateway. The goal is to build an  x.500 directory for all of NOAA.
       It would solve the *.noaa.gov E-mail issues  for some NOAA labs.
       The Mail Hub has created an X.500 directory that includes  the big
       gateways (e.g., the NWS cc:Mail gateway) in NOAA.  These are
       online. There are other systems that still need to  be included.
       Jim Lewis will solicit help from the TCCR to  accomplish the task
       of completing the directory for ERL. SMTP systems  are being
       brought online gradually. Benefits: Everyone gets  an address of
       yourname@noaa.gov. It will optimize E-mail routing within NOAA.  It
       will improve the handling of E-mail attachments. It will provide a
       unified  NOAA directory.
       Testing is expected to be done July 3. Expect the end of  July for
       things to showup. Britt will handle updates for  Boulder by ftp-ing
       an update file which will be pulled into  the mailhub.
       There is a webserver you can look at for a sneak peak at  the
       directory. You can send an E-mail to query@noaa.gov to  lookup
       names. ph and finger also work. Russ Richards recommends NOAA
       mirror  http server sites as well X.500 directory sites in the
       western HPCC  regional hub.
       Action Item: TCCR requests that the http server  also be mirrored.
       Action Item: Jim Lewis will send a list of requests  to
       tccr@erl.noaa.gov . TCCR will send Jim the requested information.

   ASC Network - Frame Relay
   Router in Boulder connects to it, but nothing is plugged  into it. NOAA
       West- connected to the campus backbone  currently static-- no one
       has access-- want to change this.
       CAMS is planning to use the frame relay. Frame relay is  broader.
       Gary Faulk mentioned that this is the same WAN from  OA. It is an
       upgrade of a 10 year old network. CAMS will use  it. Used for
       transmitting administrative data such as T&A  . Where it is headed
       in the future is unclear.
       CAMS- Implementation will be delayed until 1999. Change in  focus.
       The accounting system is the core piece. Probably not  going to
       build on all of the bells and whistles originally  planned.
       LASS: (Britt) Meeting yesterday on LASS. ERL decision is  that LASS
       will be status quo- the team does not have to meet.  During
       transition of bringing the new contractor in, no new  plans. After
       4-5 months, then we will explore www interfaces  etc.

   6. Webshop 96 Summary & WWW Policy (Don Mock)
   Attendance about the same or a little less than last year.  Diana
       Josephson was more upbeat this year and less concerned  about the
       WWW. Still the concern that NOAA looks good.  Technical sessions:
       many good presentations an good work  going on.
       DAA panel very interesting. DAA for the weather service  says they
       won=t do anything useful  over the WWW. Despite this, WWW personnel
       are doing some  great things... see Salt Lake for example.
       Wrap-up session: progress is being made from year to year.  WWW
       acceptance is increasing. Jim Holbrook countered Don=s optimism by
       saying that  upper management isn=t  putting enough resources into
       it. NOAA is falling further  behind the cutting edge agencies.
       Recognition that there  needs to be more done at the NOAA level.

   Web Advisory Committee:

       Result of the NAO and Webshop 95 policy document. Group  has had
       its first meeting. Paul Quicker is OAR=s representative. Pressure
       for  OAR to build a www policy is diminished due to the OAR/ERL
       representation  on the NOAA committee writing the policy. Ernie
       Daddio has  asked the TCCR to work with the committee to develop a
       draft policy.
       Each LO is free to make a more restrictive policy, we need  to make
       sure that the NOAA policy is broad.

   7. MISC.
   Netscape site license. Meeting with Bob Kidwell and ERL Thinking about
       site  licenses for Corel Suite. Corel Suite comes with netscape
       2.0,  as well as WordPerfect, Quattro Pro, etc. Kevin mentioned to
       Bob  that if OA wants to get a site license, we need to survey labs
       and  find out who all wants to participate. Bob will look into
       Netscape  options for us.
       Don Mock was congratulated as an OAR Employee of the Year.
       Communication: (Paul Lu) The TCCR is not receiving timely
       information from ERL HQ (e.g., the new NARB appointment,  etc.)
