http://cis.nci.nih.gov/privacypolicy.html


   Cancer Information Service

                                  About CIS

   Cancer News

   Cancer Links

   Publications Ordering

   Regional Programs

   Research

   Site Map

   Contact Us

                          National Cancer Institute


   OUR PRIVACY POLICY

      This policy describes how we will handle information we learn about you
      from your visit to our Web site. The information we receive depends
      upon what you do when visiting our site. The information is used for
      management and enhancement of our Web site.

      The Cancer Information Service is a confidential program. We will not
      obtain personal information about you unless you provide such
      information to us. If you identify yourself by sending an e-mail or
      ordering publications, we will only use this information to respond to
      your request and improve our customer services. Names and addresses are
      kept in our publications fulfillment system for 3 months in order to
      follow up on orders if necessary. They are then deleted from the
      system.

      If you visit our site to read or download information, we collect and
      store only the following information about you:
        * the name of the domain from which you access the Internet (for
          example, aol.com, if you are connecting from an America Online
          account; or yale.edu, if you are connecting from Yale University's
          domain);
        * the date and time you accessed our site;
        * the Internet address of the Web site from which you linked directly
          to our site;
        * the page locations where you visited, and other miscellaneous site
          references.

      The pages on this Web site employ "cookies." A cookie is a small file
      that a Web site transfers to your computer's hard disk to allow the
      server to "remember" specific information about your session while you
      are connected. Requests to send cookies are not designed to collect
      information about you, but only about your "browser session." The
      cookies make it easier for you to use the dynamic features of our Web
      site. The cookies and the information about your session are
      automatically destroyed shortly after you close your browser. The
      information is not permanently stored on your computer. We do not
      collect personal information about you except as described above.


      [USEMAP:botbar.jpg]

                                                      Last Updated 7/24/00
