http://www.ospd.ca.gov/main.html

                 {short description of image}     OSPD Logo

   The Office of the State Public Defender was created by the California
   Legislature in 1976 to represent indigent criminal defendants on
   appeal. The office was formed in response to the need of the state
   appellate courts, for consistent, high-quality representation for
   defendants. For the first 13 years of its existence OSPD's workload was
   predominantly complex non-capital felonies on appeal to the Courts of
   Appeal, with a handful of capital murder cases in the mix.

   Throughout this decade the number of condemned inmates sitting on Death
   Row awaiting appointment of counsel, often for years, has steadily
   increased. Due to this fact, since 1990, OSPD's mandate from all three
   branches of government has been redirected toward an exclusive focus
   upon death penalty cases. We litigate these cases both on appeal and
   habeas corpus in the California Supreme Court, and in the United States
   Supreme Court on certiorari petitions.
   The work of the office is often at the cutting edge of criminal law. We
   have appeared in the California Supreme Court in over 250 cases and in
   the United States Supreme Court in a half dozen cases where certiorari
   review was granted. We have been responsible for major developments in
   the areas of capital litigation, due process, right to counsel,
   confessions, jury selection, search and seizure, sentencing and many
   other issues.
   The agency has two regional law offices, located in Sacramento and San
   Francisco. The State Public Defender and the administrative staff are
   headquartered in San Francisco.

   The office prides itself on the diversity of its lawyers and is
   striving to preserve and improve upon that diversity. OSPD's Outreach
   Directory has become a model for the State of California and has been
   borrowed and used by numerous government and nongovernment entities in
   their own outreach efforts. The agency draws its lawyers from many
   colleges, universities and law schools. The attorneys come from a wide
   variety of backgrounds: fresh out of law school, from county and
   federal public defender offices, appellate court staffs, other public
   interest agencies and groups, and the private sector. State Public
   Defender alumni include three state court judges, the directors and
   many of the staff members of the California Appellate Projects, the
   Central California Appellate Project and First District Appellate
   Project, as well as many prominent attorneys in the private criminal
   defense and civil bars.

   The work of the Office of the State Public Defender is complex and
   challenging, and presents a unique personal and professional
   opportunity for those who choose a career in postconviction criminal
   defense.
