http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/dec01/trout1201.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine


Trout Studies Seek Superior Strains

             A rainbow trout: Click here for full photo caption.
   At fish geneticist Ken Overturf's lab, research is indeed coming along
      swimmingly. Overturf, perhaps for the first time, has pinpointed
           families of captive rainbow trout that thrive on grain.

    This development could be a boon not only for fish farmers, but also
    for the environment. That's because most of today's trout feed relies
     on protein-rich fishmeal produced from marine species like anchovy,
       menhaden, jack mackerel, or herring. But substituting grain for
     fishmeal could help reduce the threat of overfishing of these ocean
    resources. And since grain is a less expensive source of protein than
     fishmeal, grain-fed fish should be cheaper to raise. Today, feed is
                         producers' biggest expense.

   Other studies under way in Overturf's lab may make a similar splash in
   the world of commercial aquaculture. For example, he's well on the way
     to pinpointing telltale patterns in trout genetic material, or DNA,
     that reveal whether the fish will flourish on grain-based rations.
   Findings from this work may speed and simplify the process of selecting
                 out these fish from their hatchery cohorts.

      Overturf works with thousands of sleek, shimmering rainbow trout,
   Oncorhynchus mykiss, at the University of Idaho's Hagerman Fish Culture
    Station in Hagerman, Idaho. He's collaborating with Ronald W. Hardy,
    director at the station. Overturf is assigned to the ARS Small Grains
           and Potato Germplasm Research Unit in Aberdeen, Idaho.

   A geneticist inspecting environmentally friendly grain: Click here for
                             full photo caption.
                   Which Fish Thrive on Grain-Based Feeds?

       In his study of trout's ability to prosper on grain-based feed,
   Overturf worked with three commercial trout strains and a strain grown
                           at federal hatcheries.

    Feeds used for decades to nourish farm-raised trout "don't typically
    have grains such as wheat or barley in them," says Overturf. For his
   tests, feed pellets made from a commercial barley variety called Waxbar
    provided 40 percent of the animals' rations. In all, he has monitored
        growth of some 14,000 trout in tanks at the Hagerman station.

    Overturf found that a significant percentage of the trout thrived on
   the grain-enriched feed. Some grew to a hefty 250 grams in as little as
         5 months, making them equal in size to the biggest of their
                         fishmeal-fed counterparts.

   Now, Overturf and technician Dan Bullock are scrutinizing key segments
    of DNA not only of those trout that grew the most, but also of those
   that grew the least. In all, the researchers are selecting about 1,000
    trout from the original 14,000 for this evaluation. Later, they will
   use some of those 1,000 as parents for a new generation of families for
                                the research.

     In the DNA analyses, Overturf and Bullock are looking for important
     patterns in the series of building blocks, called nucleotides, that
   make up lengths of DNA. Those patterns may turn out to be indicators of
     the presence or absence of genes that enable the fish to thrive on
                             grain-based feeds.

         These genetic indicators could become the basis of a quick,
   easy-to-use, and inexpensive test for identifying grain-tolerant fish.
     Those individuals could be used as parents, or brood stock, of new
         generations of trout that will gobble grain-based pellets.

    "It's very likely that the ability to gain weight and stay healthy on
   grain-based feed is a genetically determined trait," says Overturf. "So
   now we're looking for the genetic material that's a reliable indicator
     of that trait." Scientists elsewhere have already paved the way for
     such discoveries by finding, for example, trout DNA associated with
                 valuable traits such as disease resistance.

               Low-Phytate Grains Thwart Phosphorus Pollution

   While Overturf is breeding and studying trout that have an appetite for
     grains, colleague Victor Raboy is breeding grains that may lead not
   only to impressive weight gains in fish, but also to significant gains
   in the health of the environment. Raboy, a plant geneticist with ARS at
    Aberdeen, has developed and patented a procedure for breeding grains
    like barley and corn that offer a unique balance of various forms of
                                 phosphorus.

      Although phosphorus is an essential nutrient, some forms—such as
   phytate phosphorus—are more difficult for single-stomached animals like
     fish, pigs, and chickens to digest than other forms. Raboy has bred
        special lines of corn and barley that have less phytate than
                     conventional commercial varieties.

    The result? Animals digest more of the phosphorus in the low-phytate
   feed, meaning that they also excrete less of it. That reduces the load
   of phosphorus that could otherwise leach into ponds, lakes, streams, or
   rivers. Such phosphorus pollution has been blamed for algal blooms that
    steal the oxygen needed by fish, insects, and other aquatic dwellers.

       Overturf fed pellets containing barley from a standard variety,
    Harrington, or from one of three experimental, low-phytate lines. The
      experimental barleys contained either 50, 75, or 90 percent less
                          phytate than Harrington.

   Overturf was the first to test the new, low-phytate barleys in rainbow
   trout. For this work, he used the same four trout strains that were the
   subjects for his earlier study with grain-based pellets. "We looked at
   their ability to digest the different lines of barley," Overturf says,
     and the amounts of several key minerals that the fish absorbed and
                                  excreted.

     "Our preliminary results indicate that as you reduce the amount of
    phytate phosphorus in grain, you see a corresponding increase in the
    availability of usable phosphorus and calcium—another mineral that's
       essential for healthy fish. That happened with all three of the
                      low-phytate barleys we studied."

   In addition, trout fed the 50-percent-phytate barley absorbed more iron
    and more zinc—also essential minerals—from their feed. The zinc and
   iron findings are consistent with results from human studies with foods
          such as tortillas and polenta made from low-phytate corn.

    U.S. fish farmers produce about 28,000 tons of fresh trout each year,
    with a farmgate value of about $51 million. Trout is high in protein
    and low in fat. Easy to prepare, it takes only a few minutes to fry,
                          broil, bake, or barbecue.

   Though white-fleshed trout with firm, light-colored meat is perhaps the
   most familiar kind sold in this country, some markets also offer trout
     that boasts distinctive, salmon-colored flesh. The rich, appealing
   color results from adding astaxanthin—a healthful, naturally occurring
      compound called a carotenoid—to the daily feed.—By Marcia Wood,
              Agricultural Research Service Information Staff.

    This research is part of Aquaculture, an ARS National Program (#106)
       described on the World Wide Web at http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

   Kenneth E. Overturf is in the USDA-ARS Small Grains and Potato Research
   Unit, c/o Hagerman Fish Culture Experiment Station, 3095F National Fish
      Hatchery Rd., Hagerman, ID 83332; phone (208) 837-9096, fax (208)
                                  837-6047.

              Visit Dr. Overturf's lab on the World Wide Web at
         http://www.ars-grin.gov/ars/PacWest/Aberdeen/overturf.htm.

     "Trout Studies Seek Superior Strains" was published in the December
                2001 issue of Agricultural Research magazine.

                   Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

                                Bottom menu

         Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
              About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
