http://spidr.ngdc.noaa.gov/spidr/help.html

   This interactive documentation will help you to work with SPIDR system.
   Now please enter your login or register if you are a new user.

   Select data type you need in the left menu.

   Select elements you need and choose a command on the SPIDR-toolbar to
   execute query.



   Click on a region on the above image to access data for the completed
   regions of the world or scroll down this page to download custom
   images.

   This is a low-resolution preview image. Press "Load 1 km resolution
   image" button on the toolbar to get the high-resolution product.

   An error occurred during your request.

   The page is used to dynamically visualize data. Press left mouse button
   and drag mouse through the image to zoom in a selected region. Use fill
   button to set original size.

   The page is used to print requested plots. To print the page use a
   print command of your browser.

   The page contains representation of requested data in text plot format.

   Select GOES satellite and data channels, set time sampling and desired
   period. Please follow the existence period in brackets to avoid a
   priori wrong requests.

   Select HPI NOAA satellite and data types, set time sampling and desired
   period. Please follow the existence period in brackets to avoid a
   priori wrong requests.

   Select HPI DMSP satellite and data types, set time sampling and desired
   period. Please follow the existence period in brackets to avoid a
   priori wrong requests.

   Select parameters of Interplanetary Magnetic Field, set time sampling
   and desired period. Please follow the existence period in brackets to
   avoid a priori wrong requests.

   Select geomagnetic and solar indices, set time sampling and desired
   period. Please follow the existence period in brackets to avoid a
   priori wrong requests.

   Select solar parameters, set time sampling and desired period. Please
   follow the existence period in brackets to avoid a priori wrong
   requests.

   Select date interval and sun image types you wish to view. Data sources
   links are placed at the bottom of the page.

   Select date interval,location and data types you wish to view. You may
   click on the map to select location of your interest.

   Select date interval and event types you wish to view.

   Select stations and ionospheric parameters, set time sampling and
   desired period. Please follow the existence period in brackets to avoid
   a priori wrong requests.

   Select stations, set time sampling and desired period. Please follow
   the existence period in brackets to avoid a priori wrong requests.

   Select stations, set time sampling and desired period. Please follow
   the existence period in brackets to avoid a priori wrong requests.

   To search events set date interval, average window and criteria of
   parameters selection. You may use either linguistic or numerical
   criteria (limits are required in the last case).

   Select event and click button (plot or view sun) to visualize data for
   this time interval.

   Select ROI and desired time period.

   Use this to display data in tables.

   Use this to use dynamic data visualization (applets). The received page
   may not be printable.

   Press this button to return to the World Map.

   Press this button to download the 1 km resolution image into a separate
   window or to save it on your compter.

   Use this to use static data visualization (GIF images). It could be
   considered as print preview.

   Use this to download selected data to your computer.

   Use this to add selected data, sampling and time interval into your
   data basket to handle them further.

   Use this to view data basket contents.

   Use this to open detailed help.

   Use this to form a fuzzy search request. Parameters to be used as
   search criteria are selected from those in your data basket.

   Use this to execute fuzzy request following the specified criteria.

   Use this to remove unselected items from your data basket.

   Use this to remove all data from basket.

   Use this to set default values in fields.

   Use this to display selected sun images for the given time interval.

   Use this to return to previous page.
