http://www.calstrs.ca.gov/benefit/defined/mbrinfo/mctbl.html

   fep.gif (5572 bytes)

   The California State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS) is offering
   Financial Education Program Workshops to meet the growing need CalSTRS
   members have for information on financial and retirement planning. The
   non-sales educational workshops prepare CalSTRS members, ten or more
   years from retirement, to make informed financial decisions with
   confidence.

   Each workshop addresses financial issues of particular importance to
   you as an educator. The topics covered are:

   [triangle.gif] CalSTRS benefits, including how the CalSTRS monthly
                  retirement allowance is calculated.
   [triangle.gif] Social Security provisions affecting CalSTRS members and
                  spouses.
   [triangle.gif] How to develop a personal financial plan to meet your
                  goals.

  Who Should Attend the Workshop

   The workshop provides the greatest benefit to CalSTRS members who are
   10 or more years from retirement. A spouse or guest is welcome to
   attend. If you are an educator in your early or mid-career years,
   workshop attendance is particularly meaningful as those years are the
   best for building the solid financial base required for a comfortable
   lifestyle now and during retirement.

  Registration and Cost

   The registration fee is $20. This covers the four-hour workshop,
   materials, and refreshments. A guest may also register for $10.
   Registrants will receive a workshop presentation booklet a confirmation
   letter and a map three weeks in advance of a workshop.

     There are two registration methods – by phone and online.

     Phone registration
     – Call toll-free, 1-888-394-2060, to speak to a registration
     technician. The technician will reserve your spot at a workshop of
     your choice. You will receive an invoice for the fee. Return the
     invoice with your check for the fee to secure your spot at the
     workshop. The fee must be received three weeks after your
     reservation or your spot at the workshop will be forfeited.

     Online registration
     – Click on the button below to access the Internet registration
     site. Once there you will see the entire list of workshops. Click on
     the name of the workshop you wish to attend. Follow the instructions
     on the screen making sure to include your address, phone number and
     email address (if you have one).

     Once you have registered you will receive immediate email
     confirmation that your reservation for the workshop has been
     received. You will receive an invoice for the fee. Return the
     invoice with your check for the fee to secure your spot at the
     workshop. The fee must be received three weeks after your
     reservation or your spot at the workshop will be forfeited.

     Register Now

   If you find you cannot attend the workshop, you may request a refund by
   calling 1-800-228-5453 no less than ten calendar days prior to the date
   of the workshop.

   Navigation Bar
       Home       Search       Contact CalSTRS        Back to DB Members
   Area

   Financial Education Program Updated: January 12, 2000
