http://www.capaa.wa.gov/pdf/2001v2i3.pdf

   T h e S t a t e o f W a s h i n g t o n C O M M I S S I O N O N A S I A
   N P A C I F I C A M E R I C A N A F F A I R S CAP I m p r o v i n g t h
   e l i v e s o f A s i a nAA P a c i f i c A m e r i c a n s
   October-December 2001 Volume 2, Issue 3 M E S S A G E F R O M T H E D I
   R E C T O R Your Rights and The Police Dear Friends, Adapted with
   permission from the ACLU* Our state, our country and our world are
   changing. It has By Joann Natalia Aquino, Legislative Liaison always
   been this way. Yes, we are becoming more diverse. And, yes, living in a
   multicultural society has its many challenges. The information you give
   to the police is important. What Change can be difficult and we often
   resist what we don t you say can be used against you, and this may also
   give the police a reason to arrest you. understand. We often talk about
   embracing diversity. It s a nice tag If You Are Stopped by the Police:
   " You may remain silent. You don t have to answer any questions, line.
   It s a reality that s here so we better learn to live with it, many
   give personal information, or show any identification, unless feel.
   Others sense that diversity is inevitable and embracing it you are
   operating a car or in a place where liquor is served. is then the right
   thing to do, but not quite sure why. And some " Do not physically
   resist. The officer may frisk you for weapons of us haven t quite
   bought in on the idea. by patting the outside of your clothing. " Ask
   if you re under arrest. If so, ask why. If you re not under The values
   of embracing diversity are elemental: social arrest, you should be free
   to leave. Whether or not you re harmony, economic stability, and
   democratic strength. Our guilty, go with the officer. You can make your
   defense in court. education system is critical in manifesting these
   values. Never run from a police officer. Although our state passed an
   ambitious education reform If You Are Stopped In Your Car: act in 1993
   and continues to refine it with each successive " Upon request, show
   the officer your driver s license, registration card, and proof of
   insurance. Your car may be searched without legislative session, a
   fundamental work remains to be undertaken a warrant as long as there s
   a probable cause. in a systemic and transformative fashion: ensuring an
   equitable " If you re given a ticket, you should sign it; otherwise you
   can and culturally competent education system for all students. be
   arrested. You can contest this in court later. Unfortunately, our
   current system promotes euro-centric " If you re suspected of drunk
   driving and refuse to take a breath test, your license may be
   suspended. models that exclude the worldviews and strengths of many
   cultures. Its academic scholarship narrowly defines what it If You Are
   Arrested: " You have the right to remain silent, use it. Ask to speak
   to an means to be American. Its message is to assimilate or be attorney
   at once. Don t speak and make any decisions any left behind. And behind
   our ethnic minority students are. further unless your attorney is
   present. Surely this is not good for our state, our country, or our "
   If the police say they have a warrant, request to see it. Do not
   physically resist. world. " The police must give you an itemized
   receipt for everything As we profess our belief to embrace diversity
   and that each taken from you. student can learn at high academic
   levels, let s investigate how " You may be released with or without
   bail following booking. our education system systematically contributes
   to academic You have the right to go into court and see a judge the
   next court day after the arrest, demand this right. gaps between White
   and ethnic minority students. Let s become truly conscious of the
   nature of this deeply embedded This is not a legal advice. Please
   consult your attorney for assistance with your situation. For a
   complete text of "Your Rights and the Police," please contact the
   *American Civil Liberties Union problem. Not to do so would be a shame
   and, dare I say, a office at (206) 624-2184. crime to generations of
   underserved communities. I n T h i s I s s u e Sincerely, Page 1
   Message From the Director Page 2 Message From the Board Page 2 Service
   Agency Snapshot: Indochina Chinese Refugee Association Page 3 Education
   Reform in Washington State Page 4 Chinese Americans Miebeth R. Bustillo
   Page 5 Equitable and Culturally Competent Education 1 M E S S A G E F R
   O M T H E B O A R D COMMISSIONERS Dear Friends, valuable to learn these
   in the context Today s classrooms are often made up of of a diverse
   reality. I think we already Habib M. Habib Chair many faces from many
   cultural sense that too much orientation to Snohomish County
   backgrounds. Yet, our education system technology may actually rob us
   of our Yvonne Kinoshita Ward remains largely euro-centric. humanity.
   1st Vice-Chair King County Our education system needs to change. We
   need to pay close attention to Natacha Sesko It needs to prepare our
   students in a world what and how our students are 2nd Vice-Chair Kitsap
   County whose people have diverse worldviews. It learning. Are our
   students reading and Randolph Bolong is important to remember that many
   writing in ways that will prepare them Yakima County cultural norms
   have timeless wisdom. For for a diverse reality? What purposes are they
   solving mathematical Alma Kern King County example, in most traditional
   Asian and puzzles? Are they becoming more worldly, more holistic
   problem Elliott L. Kim Pacific Islander cultures, respect and care
   solvers? Are they paying attention to cultural and world affairs?
   Pierce County for the elders are fundamental norms. Will they be able
   to work with and respect different kinds of Tony Lee King County
   Traditional Native American cultures speak people? Are we inadvertently
   teaching them one set of norms at Diane Narasaki of the connectedness
   to nature and the expense of others? King County humanity s limited
   role in the web of life. Our pluralistic society can only be
   strengthened by individuals Faaluaina Pritchard Pierce County
   Individualism is a central value in Western who understand their
   neighbors. There s nothing to fear, but Sam Tonn societies. These are
   not necessarily mutually ignorance itself. Let s promote true education
   an education of Snohomish County exclusive. the mind, the soul, and the
   social being. I think our society will Although textbooks are changing
   to be the better for it. reflect the faces of ethnic diversity in our
   classrooms, they do little to convey how each culture understands how a
   human being Sincerely, relates to itself, to another, to nature, and to
   society. Education is much more than just academics. Yes, it is
   important to learn the three R s reading, writing, and arithmetic and
   to have technological skills. It is also equally Natacha Sesko, 2nd
   Vice-Chair APA Service Agency Snapshot Indochina Chinese Refugee
   Association By Kongkham Panyathong, Intern After the communist takeover
   of China in 1949, many Chinese resettled in Cambodia, Laos, and
   Vietnam. Within these countries, they still maintain their traditions
   and own ethnic identity. Yet, once in the United States, the ethnic
   Chinese are classified by their country of birth instead of their
   ethnic group. This brought about the making of the Indochina Chinese
   Refugee Association (ICRA), which seeks to provide support to ethnic
   Chinese to maintain their own cultural values and language while
   assisting in their resettlement activities in the United States. As
   King county s first effort by ethnic Chinese to serve their community
   the ICRA has many services and programs to offer such as: "
   Interpretation/translation, information and referral service "
   Naturalization/Citizenship classes Students in an English Second
   Language (ESL) class. " English as a Second language classes " The Yat
   Sen Chinese School, which teaches cultural Chinese education to For
   more information please call (206) students ranging from the ages of
   5-18 625-9955 or http://www.icra-yscs.org " Seattle/ King County Youth
   Success provides general tutoring to limited speaking immigrants ages
   9-12 " Chinese Youth and Parent Education is a program that urges
   parents to be more active in their children s education 2 Education
   Reform in Washington State By Joann Natalia Aquino, Legislative Liaison
   The Washington State Education Reform Act of 1993 have not mastered the
   EALRS at appropriate periods in their serves as the overarching
   framework to establish educational development. common learning goals
   intended to raise academic The WASL is conducted in the fourth, seventh
   and tenth standards and achievement for all Washington grades. Also,
   the 10th grade WASL or the Certificate of Mastery, which will be first
   applied in the school year 2005-06, is scheduled students. This law has
   three parts: academic to be a requirement for graduation beginning in
   the school year standards, assessments, and accountability. 2007-08.
   Students who do not pass the 10th grade WASL may retake the test. The
   Washington State Legislature passed the Education Reform Accountability
   Act in 1993. Among others, it established the Commission on In 2000,
   the Legislature approved the third component of the Student Learning
   (CSL) to develop and administer the basic education reform system:
   accountability. The Legislature created components of education reform.
   Specifically, the Legislature the Academic Achievement and
   Accountability (A+) Commission directed the CSL to develop clear,
   challenging academic as the agent to hold the school districts
   accountable in the standards; to develop standards-based assessments;
   and to improvement of student learning and student achievement. The
   recommend an accountability system. Legislature also wanted to be able
   to measure if individual The Legislature approved four Washington State
   learning goals: students were given the opportunity to become a
   responsible " Read with comprehension, write with skill, and
   communicate citizen and successfully live, learn, and work in today's
   society. effectively. To achieve this purpose, the accountability
   system is based " Know and apply the core concepts and principles of on
   student achievement and continuous improvement at all mathematics,
   social, physical and life sciences, civics and levels. It is also based
   on a fundamental principle that all public history, geography, arts,
   and health and fitness. school students have access to curriculum and
   instruction aligned " Think analytically, logically, and creatively,
   and integrate to the standards; that curriculum and instruction are
   simple to experience and knowledge. use and understand; and the
   consequences must be predictable " Understand the importance of work
   and how performance, and fair. Certain differences among students,
   schools, and effort, and decisions affect future career and educational
   districts are considered in the newly formed accountability
   opportunities. system. When the CSL legislative mandate ended on June
   30, 1999, 2001 WASL Highlights the Office of the Superintendent of
   Public Instruction (OSPI) 2001 Washington Assessment Student Learning
   (WASL) results took over its responsibilities and the administration of
   Washington show continued student progress on learning goals: State's
   education reform. " The students meeting standards in all subjects
   improved for Standards grades four and ten. The CSL, in consultation
   with numerous workgroups made up of " Results for grade seven dropped
   slightly in the number of educators, parents, and other stakeholders,
   began the work of students meeting standard in reading and math, but
   increased developing the Essential Academic Learning Requirement in
   writing and listening. Standards (EALRS) in eight subject areas:
   reading, writing, " Strongest gains were made at the 10th grade in all
   content communication, mathematics, science, social studies, arts,
   areas, especially writing. and health and fitness. Today, standards
   around reading, writing, " Writing scores also improved for fourth- and
   seventh-graders. (Note: Academic achievement gaps between White and
   ethnic minority students and math are more developed that other areas.
   are statistically significant.) The EALRS represent the specific
   academic skills and knowledge students are required to learn in order
   to successfully Changes Affecting the 2001 School Year live and work in
   the 21st century. The EARLS are also the Better School Fund statements
   of what students should know and be able to do at The Better School
   Fund provides school districts additional funding the completion of
   their K-12 education. These statements are to reduce class sizes,
   provide extended learning opportunities purposefully broad to serve as
   guideposts to school districts. for students, and funding for
   professional development and training. Assessment The assessment system
   is designed to gauge how well districts, Teacher/ Student Contact
   Requirement Repealed schools, classrooms, and students are doing
   academically. It The Basic Education Act requirement that full-time
   equivalent has four primary components: 1) state-level assessments
   classroom teachers average 25 hours per week of direct (Washington
   Assessment on Student Learning (WASL)); 2) classroom contact was
   repealed effective September 1, 2000. classroom-based assessments; 3)
   school and school district Self-study Requirement Repealed context
   indicator data; and 4) professional development. Among The requirement
   that schools conduct a self-study every seven other things, the
   assessments serve as tools to evaluate years was also repealed
   effective September 1, 2000. instructional practices. It is also a tool
   to support students who Sources: Washington State OSPI, "State Laws
   Regarding Education Reform, Assessment, and Accountability in
   Washington State," 2000; Washington State Commission on Student
   Learning, "Education Reform in Washington State: A Resource Guide,"
   1996; State of Washington CAPAA, "Asian Pacific American Heritage Photo
   Courtesy of Ryan Minato 3 Resource Guide For Washington State K-12
   Schools," 2001. Chinese Americans By Ryan Minato, Research Analyst
   Early Immigration Between 1910 and 1940, as many as 175,000 Chinese
   immigrants The first immigration wave from China began as an escape
   from were detained and processed. It was not until an alliance between
   Western colonialization, natural disasters, famine, and work the U.S.
   and China during World War II that the Chinese shortages. For example,
   thousands of Chinese fled China as a Exclusion Act was repealed,
   resulting in the natural development result of the Opium Wars, waged
   primarily by British colonizers; of Chinese American communities and
   the drafting of Chinese and Chinese men were initially drawn to Hawaii
   s sugar plantations men to join U.S. World War II armed forces. (1787)
   and California s gold fields (1848). The Chinese were the first Asians
   to migrate in significant Community Growth Two decades later,
   immigration laws designed to bar the entry of numbers to Washington
   State where labor contractors aggressively Asian immigrants were
   lifted. Consistent with the intent to recruited them for mining in the
   1860s and salmon canneries, eliminate discrimination in the U.S.
   through the Civil Rights logging camps, and railroad construction in
   the 1870s. Chinese Act of 1964, the U.S. Congress passed the
   Immigration Act of laborers made up two-thirds of the mining workforce;
   one-fourth 1965 as an act to phase out race-based immigration laws. of
   the cannery workers; and two-thirds of the railroad crew, In A
   Different Mirror, scholar and author, Ronald Takaki, building almost
   every major rail connection in Washington before writes that the
   passage of the 1965 Act marked an ideological 1900. The number of
   Chinese laborers declined in the early departure from a perspective
   that the U.S. was a homogenous twentieth century due to the Chinese
   Exclusion Act of 1882, White society to one that redefined who would
   become an which was the first law that prohibited immigration on the
   basis American. Asian American communities soon began to grow. of
   nationality. Noteworthy is that the second wave of Chinese immigration
   was Exclusion Era very different from the first, with increasing
   numbers of students, As a result of prejudice and competition for jobs,
   the Chinese professionals, and people from cities. were increasingly
   restricted by exclusionary laws. For example, Today the Chinese
   community is the third largest ethnic group in 1854, the Chinese were
   denied the right to testify in court after Mexicans and Filipino
   Americans. Since 1965, the Chinese against Whites, resulting in Whites
   robbing, killing and assaulting American population has increased more
   than ten times to 2.4 the Chinese with impunity. In 1882, the Chinese
   Exclusion Act million. prohibited immigration from China and set the
   stage for many other nationality-based exclusion laws. Chinese women
   were Fight Against Oppression Chinese Americans have a proactive
   history of resisting racist especially targeted for exclusion in order
   to control the Chinese oppression. Examples of such resistance are the
   1867 strike by population in the U.S. and keep the laborers single and
   mobile. 7,000 Chinese laborers against the Central Pacific Railroad;
   the By 1890, the ratio of men to women was 27 to one, truncating 1933
   Chinese Hand Laundry Alliance to fight discrimination in the natural
   development of the Chinese community. New York; the 1936 union fight in
   Alaska won by a combination With the passage of the Chinese Exclusion
   Act, the anti- of Asian American, Chicano and white cannery workers;
   and Chinese movement intensified in Washington and the Chinese the 1938
   successful 14-week garment strike by Chinese American were driven out
   of labor camps and eventually from the women. chinatowns. This attacked
   the heart of the community since the Nevertheless, stereotypes and
   discriminatory attitudes persist chinatowns served as cultural enclaves
   for the Chinese. For today. Recent events continue to create fear,
   misdirected anger, example, Seattle s Chinatown, which began in the
   1860s, employed and prejudice against Chinese Americans. One such high
   profile many Chinese men forced out of the labor market. Also, Chinese
   case is that of Wen Ho Lee, which raised concerns around racially-
   merchants established some of Seattle s largest businesses there;
   biased law enforcement or racial profiling. and Seattle s Chinatown
   became the home of benevolent family Today, Chinese Americans focus
   their attention on changing associations that provided business loans,
   language instruction, negative American attitudes towards them by being
   politically and social outlets. active. Among the most notable Chinese
   American political In 1906, a loophole to the Exclusion Act surfaced
   after the leaders in Washington State are Wing Luke, who in 1963 became
   great fire and earthquake in San Francisco destroyed all of the the
   first person of Asian descent to be elected into office in the U.S.
   immigration records. Since the government had no records Pacific
   Northwest; Ruby Chow, who in 1973 became the first to prove otherwise,
   countless Chinese bought false papers Chinese American woman elected to
   Seattle City Council; and identifying themselves as children of Chinese
   Americans. Gary Locke, who in 1996 became the first Asian American
   However, after gaining citizenship, these so-called paper sons governor
   on the U.S. mainland. often lived out their lives in fear of discovery.
   To curtail illegal immigrants and close the loophole, a Background
   Photo: Chinese American festival near Fifth and Jackson, Seattle, 1910.
   Photo courtesy of Special Collections Division, University of
   Washington, Hamilton 3855 detention center opened on Angel Island
   located in San Francisco Bay. Suspect immigrants were separated from
   family members Sources: Takaki, Ronald. "Strangers from a Different
   Shore," 1989; Takaki, Ronald. "A Different Mirror," 1993; Dubrow,
   Nomura, et al. "The Historic Context for the Protection of
   Asian/Pacific American Resources in and placed in a crowded and
   demoralizing environment for weeks. Washington State," 1993; Natale,
   Valerie. "Guardian of the Western Gate," 1998; Committee of 100.
   "American Attitudes Toward Chinese Americans & Asian Americans," 2001.
   4 Equitable and Culturally Competent Education Adapted from the
   Multi-Ethnic Think Tank's Position Paper, "Mandating an Equitable and
   Culturally Competent Education System." For a complete text, please go
   to http://unity.ospi.wednet.edu/*COUP/PPaper/STEPS.html. Ethnic
   minority and low socio-economic (ITBS), California Test of Basic Skills
   (CTBS) a widening and permanent socio-economic students are
   academically behind at and the Washington Assessment on Student gap
   between the have and the have-not alarming rates. Our euro-centric
   Learning (WASL) continue to show the communities. education system is
   not set up for their disparity. Insufficient Data Collection and
   academic success. In fact, the According to the WASL/4 Ethnicity
   Reporting underlying message is to assimilate or Trends Four Years Data
   report (school years To aggravate the problem, the state lacks be left
   behind. 1996/97-1999/2000) standards around the collection and
   reporting The continuing academic achievement METT Background of data.
   The results are incoherent and gap is evidence that the curriculum and
   unreliable statewide reports. Also, few of Multiple trend data has long
   indicated that ethnic instruction in the state schools are not these
   reports are disaggregated by race and minority and low socio-economic
   students are meeting the individual needs of all ethnicity, which makes
   it impossible to get a academically behind at alarming rates. This
   students. Schools have been adjusting true picture of the extent of the
   problem. crisis brought about the creation of the Multi- their
   curriculum to teach to the WASL and Information about subgroups within
   the larger Ethnic Think Tank (METT) in 2000 as an historic although
   they have been successful in ethnic groups are also lacking. For
   example, alliance of the African American, American raising the scores
   across all groups, the the Asian Pacific American community is very
   Indian/Alaskan Native (including First Nations), academic achievement
   gap continues to diverse, with over 50 Asian and Pacific Asian/Pacific
   Islander Americans and Hispanic exist. The WASL continues to provide
   the Islander distinct ethnic groups, which vary in and
   low-socioeconomic communities in pursuit evidence that the curriculum
   and English-proficiency, cultural norms, and of an equitable and
   culturally competent instruction that is delivered in the schools
   acculturation. However, the APA group is often education system for all
   students. The METT continues to exclude a large percentage lumped into
   one super category or if had its roots in 1998, when the Office of the
   of students of color. decategorized, only a handful of the Asian ethnic
   Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) groups (i.e., Japanese,
   Chinese, Filipino, brought together five think tanks representing
   Indeed, the METT concur that the system is Vietnamese) are accounted
   for, leaving many various ethnic groups under the Unity Project not set
   up to promote the academic success others, including the Pacific
   Islanders to develop strategies to address academic of ethnic minority
   and low socio-economic overshadowed by the progress of the more
   underachievement. students; and with the 10th grade Certificate of
   Mastery WASL tied to graduation established Asian American communities.
   Narrow Academic Paradigm requirements beginning 2008, the stakes are
   Action Steps Historically, ethnic minority and low socio- high. Such
   unabated academic gaps virtually The METT proposes seven action steps
   to economic Washington State students have had guarantee that ethnic
   minority and low socio- create an equitable and culturally competent
   the distinction of poor academic achievement. economic students will be
   denied equal education system. These action steps call for a This,
   however, is not a reflection of our students' opportunity for lifelong
   success. transformed education system that honors all academic ability.
   It is a reflection of systemic students in a holistic manner-accounting
   for failure. The current public education structure Socio-Economic
   Disparities their various worldviews, learning styles, uses an academic
   paradigm that defines a This pervasive academic underachievement
   multiple intelligences, and cultural heritage. narrow scholarship of
   what is American and has a direct correlation to such success being
   American. It leaves little room to engage indicators as suspension,
   retention, expulsion, " Add a fifth Washington State learning goal
   various worldviews, languages, cultural norms, dropout, teen pregnancy
   and crime rates. to ensure culturally competent education. learning
   styles, and multiple intelligences. In Furthermore, the communities
   from which " Infuse multicultural education goals in effect it
   standardizes a curriculum that ignores these underserved students come
   display the existing four learning goals. and leaves out our state and
   nation's effects of educational inequity through high " Integrate
   multicultural and technological multicultural and multilingual reality.
   Its incidences in poverty, crime, blight, gang learning objectives in
   the Washington message is to assimilate or be left behind. involvement,
   drug trafficking, and community State Essential Academic Learning As a
   result, academic and institutionalized disintegration. These
   socio-economic Requirements (EALRs). racism is perpetuated without
   challenge or disparities also have correlations to the " Standardize
   the data collection, question-seriously affecting pedagogical
   overplacement of underserved students in categorization, and reporting
   of racial, theory and practice, policy development, special education
   programs and in their ethnic and low socio-economic groups. systemic
   structure, and resource allocation. underplacement in gifted and
   talented " Require that professional development is culturally and
   linguistically responsive Academic Achievement Gaps academic courses,
   advanced placements, and Running Start. " Recruit and retain racial and
   ethnic The chronic academic achievement gap minority staff. between
   White and racial and ethnic minority Post-Secondary Education and "
   Provide alternate measuring tools to students continues despite our
   efforts to Workforce Ramifications assess student academic achievement.
   reform our education system. This problem If academic achievement gap
   trend continues, weakens underserved communities and It is the METT's
   hope that educational ethnically diverse and low socio-economic
   contributes directly to social, economic, policymakers pay particular
   attention to the students will not graduate from high school health,
   and other enduring inequities. From academic fate of all of our
   students, especially in large numbers-greatly decreasing their all
   indicators, many ethnic minority and low those long neglected in a
   system that wrongly likelihood to pursue and complete post-
   socio-economic students are academically assumes one-size fits all.
   secondary education and in getting high- behind. Quite telling is what
   the standardized skilled, high-paying and family-wage sustaining Note:
   Miebeth Bustillo, Thelma Jackson, Martina Whelshula, and tests such as
   the Iowa Test of Basic Skills Norma Zavala are the core writers of the
   2001 METT position paper, jobs. Such an unabated trend will only
   guarantee unanimously endorsed by the METT that met in February 2001. 5
   T h e S t a t e o f W a s h i n g t o n PRESORTED C A P A A STANDARD US
   POSTAGE PAID C O M M I S S I O N O N SEATTLE WA PERMIT NO 677 A S I A N
   P A C I F I C A M E R I C A N A F F A I R S 5 0 1 S o u t h J a c k s o
   n , S u i t e 3 0 6 S e a t t l e , W A 9 8 1 0 4 In this issue:
   Americans and "Chinese "Equitable Competent Culturally Education C A P
   A A Calendar and Historical Events Current Nov. 17  Ayame Kai Holiday
   Craft Dec. 12, 1947  President Ongoing through 2002  "From Fair,
   Seattle Buddhist Church, Truman grants full pardon to the The CAPAA
   Newsletter Awareness to Healing: AIDS and 1427 S. Main St., 10 AM - 4
   PM. Japanese Americans convicted is a publication by the Asian Pacific
   American Contact: (206) 938-0497. and imprisoned for resisting the the
   Commission on Asian Pacific American Affairs. Community," Wing Luke
   Asian Historic draft during World War II. Museum, 407 - 7th Avenue
   Editor: Nov. 4, 1940  Angel Island Dec. 17, 1943  Congress Miebeth R.
   Bustillo South, Seattle. Contact: (206) immigration detention center,
   in repeals the Chinese Exclusion Act Contributors: 694-6796. San
   Francisco Bay, is closed after and sets an immigration quota of Joann
   Natalia Aquino Miebeth R. Bustillo Nov. 8  Woman of Achievement 30
   years of operation. 105 Chinese people per year. Ryan Minato Benefit
   Luncheon, keynote Suze Soon thereafter, 14,000 Chinese Kongkham
   Panyathong Nov. 5, 1996  Gary Locke is Orman, hosted by YWCA of
   Americans were drafted into the Natacha Sesko elected Washington's 21st
   Spokane, Spokane Convention armed forces. Layout: Governor, becoming
   the first Center, 12 noon. Contact: (509) Ryan Minato Chinese American
   Governor in U.S. Dec. 22, 1987  President 326-1190 ext. 127. Printer:
   history. Reagan signs the Amerasian Overnight Printing Nov. 9-11  Hmong
   New Year Homecoming Act allowing & Graphics, Inc. Nov. 10-13, 1982
   Dedication of celebration with music, dance immigration of Vietnamese
   Original Design Concept: the National Vietnam Veterans exhibits and
   demonstrations, children with American parentage Catherine Rivera
   Design Memorial, designed by Chinese Seattle Center House. Contact:
   American architect Maya Ying Lin. to the U.S. ©2001 CAPAA. (206)
   684-7200. All rights reserved. Nov. 24, 1998  General Eric K. Dec. 28,
   1945  Signing of the Nov. 15  Asian Pacific Islander Shinseki, the
   highest ranking War Bride Act facilitates the entry Community
   Leadership Asian American U.S. military of an estimated 200,000 Asian
   CAPAA Foundation (ACLF) Graduation officer to date, assumes duties as
   women as wives of U.S. soldiers. 501 South Jackson, Dinner with guest
   speakers Ron the 28th Vice Chief of Staff. Volunteer and Make a
   Difference Suite 306 Sims and Martha Choe, Jumbo Looking for volunteer
   or internship Seattle, WA 98104 Restaurant, 4208 Rainier Dec. 10, 1898
   Spain cedes the Phone: (206) 464-5820 opportunities? Please call, (206)
   Avenue South, Seattle, Philippines to the U.S., marking Fax: (206)
   464-5821 the start of the first significant 464-5820. You will make a
   email: capaa@capaa.wa.gov 5:30 PM. Contact or RSVP: immigration of
   Filipinos to the U.S. difference. http://www.capaa.wa.gov (206)
   652-2454 ext. 7.
