http://www.awips.noaa.gov/racc/NCF-diagnosis.txt

   Subject: RACC Meeting Minutes - Clarification Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2001
   13:44:24 -0500 From: "James Stenpeck" Organization: DOC/NOAA/NWS -
   National Weather Service All, At the previous 12/5 RACC, Eastern Region
   mentioned an issue dealing with CTP and that site having several
   hardware issues within the past 4 months. It was inferred that the NCF
   had misdiagnosed the hardware problems. PRC promised to look into the
   issue. Below is the result of the investigation performed by Rick
   Smedley. Jim Stenpeck We looked into the issue of missed/errant
   diagnosis of hardware problems at State College. The problem isn't one
   of a missed diagnosis. The problems are being diagnosed properly. The
   confusion comes in during the call out of parts. All problems cited
   dealt with disk drive replacements. In order to cut down on the
   confusion associated with getting the right disk drive part number, we
   are taking two steps: 1. We are creating a disk replacement quick
   reference matrix by device (i.e. AS, DS, workstation, mass storage,
   etc.). The matrix will cross reference device, type of drives allowable
   for that device, and HP Part Number. Thus, when an engineer determines
   the correct number for a disk drive based on the parts database, they
   will use the reference matrix to verify the part number. In one of the
   cited cases, this cross reference would have quickly alerted the
   engineer that the part number pulled wasn't correct. 2. Work with HP to
   ensure the techs call the NCF to discuss the problem prior to going to
   the site. In one other cited case, the trouble ticket very clearly
   indicated that the server was a K220 and the drive being replaced was a
   9 G internal drive. Verifying this info before dispatching to the site
   would have most likely surfaced any discrepancy and avoided the problem
   of arriving at the site with the wrong drive. In fairness to HP, most
   HP techs do contact the NCF prior to going to the site, but it is
   prudent to reinforce this approach. Last week I have passed this info
   onto Ross Dickman (Eastern Region) and Joe Byerly (State College ESA).
   Rick Smedley
