http://www.ferc.gov/disclmer.htm

   PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT

   WEBSITE SERVICE HOURS

                                 DISCLAIMERS

   Documents found on this site are not the official version. There may be
   instances where this version of a document will differ from the
   official issuance. Every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of the
   FERC filings, data and files herein. The official issuances and filings
   are the paper copies, and are available through the FERC Public
   Reference Room, Room 2A, 888 First Street, NE, Washington DC 20426.

                          FERC WEB SITE LINK POLICY

   The FERC provides links to sites that support its mission. It is the
   policy of the FERC to only provide links to the web sites of the
   entities regulated by the Commission, to the associations which
   represent these entities, and to associations whose membership consists
   predominantly of customers of regulated entities. In addition, we will
   provide links to the web sites of professional organizations and
   government agencies whose standards, regulations or pronouncements
   significantly impact the regulated industries. The FERC does not link
   to sites which have endorsements or have fee for service. The FERC is
   not responsible for the accuracy of the content on any external sites.

                            PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT

   This World Wide Web (WWW) site is provided as a public service by the
   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the Commission). Safeguarding the
   privacy of individuals who visit our site is of the utmost importance
   to us.

   The information we receive and what we do with it depends on what you
   do while visiting our site. Except as needed to protect our site's
   security, we do not even try to identify individual users or their
   usage patterns.

   Individuals using our system without authority are subject to having
   all of their activities on our system monitored and recorded by
   Commission computer system personnel. In the course of monitoring
   individuals improperly using this system, or in the course of system
   maintenance, the activities of authorized users may also be monitored.
   Anyone using this system expressly consents to such monitoring and is
   advised that if such monitoring reveals possible evidence of criminal
   activity, Commission computer system personnel may provide the evidence
   of such monitoring to law enforcement officials.

   (1) If you visit our site to read or download information, such as
   orders or filings, we collect and store default information customarily
   logged by World Wide Web server software:
     * the name or numeric address given to the computer or server from
       which you connected to the Internet (the IP address and/or fully
       qualified domain name);
     * the date and time you accessed our site;
     * the Internet address of the website from which you linked directly
       to our site;
     * and the type of web browser you are using.

   The logs are reviewed periodically to make our site more useful to
   visitors. We review aggregated information to learn about the number of
   visitors to our site and the types of technology our visitors use. The
   logs are retained for a period of time specified by the applicable
   records retention schedule established as part of the federal
   recordkeeping program.

   (2) If you identify yourself by sending an e-mail, we use your personal
   information to process your request, question, etc. Your message may be
   forwarded, as e-mail, to other Commission employees who are better able
   to help you. Except as noted, we never release personal information to
   third parties except to further the purpose for which you provide the
   information (such as forwarding your question to another place that may
   be better able to provide assistance) or if release is required by law.

   E-mail does not constitute official communication with the Commission
   and is not normally entered into the public record of a formal
   Commission proceeding. However, e-mail containing communication about a
   specific Commission proceeding, particularly if addressed to an
   individual Commission staff member, may be entered into the public
   record. Please read "How to Contact FERC" for more information about
   how to communicate your needs properly to ensure prompt service.

   (3) Data explicitly submitted to the Commission through the filling-out
   of on-line forms (e.g., for electronic filing) is handled and saved in
   accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 and in accordance with the
   Commission's regulations.

   (4) We generally do not use cookies, but processes (such as the
   Commission Issuance Posting System (CIPS)) might require their use. (A
   cookie is a file placed on your hard drive by a Web site, usually
   without your knowledge.)

                            WEBSITE SERVICE HOURS

   FERC strives to have its Website and systems continuously accessible,
   but unanticipated outages, maintenance, or technical problems may bring
   the site, system, or parts of them, down unexpectedly. Technicians are
   not available outside of FERC's official business hours (8:30 a.m. to
   5:00 p.m. Eastern Time) to correct unexpected outages. Unexpected
   outages will be corrected as soon as possible after detection during
   FERC's normal business hours.

   Helplines (202-208-1371 and 202-208-2222) for technical assistance or
   questions about information available from the site are staffed during
   the Commission's official business hours (8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   Eastern Time). Users needing help or information outside of those hours
   are encouraged to send an email to Web.master@ferc.gov.
