http://npp.ninds.nih.gov/SOW/StimMicroelectrodeArrays99Sow.html

               Micromachined Stimulating Microelectrode Arrays

Principal Investigator

                                                    Affiliation

                                                                        Contract Number

                                                                                            Link

Ken Wise, Ph.D.

                      University of Michigan

                                            N01-NS9-2304

   ________________________________________________________________

   Micromachined Stimulating Microelectrode Arrays, 1999

                               WORK STATEMENT

   ARTICLE C.1
   BACKGROUND.

   The Neural Prosthesis Program is developing safe and effective methods
   of selective electrical stimulation of portions of the nervous system
   for restoration of function in neurologically impaired individuals.
   Many potential neural prostheses, including visual, auditory, and motor
   prostheses, will not be feasible until microelectrode arrays are
   developed that allow multiple, small clusters of neurons to be
   independently stimulated. This project will involve research and
   development on thin-film microelectrode arrays capable of independently
   stimulating as many as 512 such small clusters of cells. Specifically,
   these microelectrode arrays are being designed to provide
   microstimulation at multiple sites in the visual cortex, the cochlear
   nucleus and the lumbrosacral spinal cord.

   Micromachining of silicon, combined with integration of electronic
   circuits on the micromachined structure, permits fabrication of active
   circuit microelectrodes with multiple stimulating sites on multiple
   shanks. Microelectrode arrays currently under development have 64
   stimulation sites placed along 8 or 16 penetrating shanks. These
   64-site, two-dimensional microelectrode arrays can be assembled into a
   3-dimensional array with 512 stimulating sites. These thin-film
   stimulating microelectrodes have several advantages over more
   conventional wire bundle microelectrodes for multiple site, highly
   selective stimulation. Their stimulating site density is at least an
   order of magnitude greater than wire bundle electrodes and permits
   stimulation site spacing with dimensions comparable to the dimensions
   of neurons. The designs provide circuitry which permits
   extracorporeally generated stimulus instructions for many neural
   stimulating sites to be combined into a single signal and then decoded
   by integrated electronics on the implant. The integrated electronics
   also permit the arrays to be designed with integrated telemetry,
   eliminating the need for tethering cables.

   This RFP represents a competitive renewal of a contract that will
   expire in November, 1998. The work to be done in the proposed contract
   consists of continued development of integrated circuit stimulating
   microelectrode arrays. An implantable platform that includes telemetry
   for receiving power and data for the array will be developed. The
   telemetry platform will provide a leadless, self-contained implant. The
   contractor will supply test devices to other investigators in the
   Neural Prosthesis Program who are investigating the histopathological
   effects of central nervous system placement of micromachined
   electrodes. Expertise in materials science, micromachining, integrated
   circuit design, and bioengineering will be needed to perform this
   research. No animal or human testing is required. A bibliography
   listing publications from current and prior NPP supported studies is
   available from the Neural Prosthesis Program, NINDS, NIH, Room 8A13,
   Federal Bldg., Bethesda, MD. 20892-9155.


   ARTICLE C.2
   WORK STATEMENT

       A. Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the
       contractor shall exert its best efforts to design and fabricate
       microelectrode stimulating arrays capable of independently
       stimulating multiple, small populations of neurons within the
       central nervous system (CNS). These arrays of microelectrodes shall
       have at least 64 independent sites and some arrays shall be capable
       of free-standing operation, receiving both power and telemetry
       signals by means of an electromagnetic link, requiring no
       percutaneous connecting cable.
       B. Specifically:

   1. The contractor shall develop passive and active (containing
       integrated electronics) microelectrode stimulation arrays. These
       arrays shall have at least 64 stimulation sites distributed on up
       to 16 shanks that can penetrate into neural tissue. The array shall
       include an integrated flexible cable of at least 1.5 cm. in length
       that can be connected to the multiplexing integrated circuit (IC)
       described in item 2 below. The process used to produce the arrays
       shall permit fabrication of microelectrode arrays with activated
       iridium stimulation site areas from 200 to 1000 square microns,
       stimulation site placement within neural tissue ranging from 1000
       to 6000 microns beyond the point of electrode penetration, and
       adjacent shank spacing of as little as 400 microns. Shanks shall be
       designed to penetrate the pia without harmful dimpling and shall be
       capable of penetrating pial vessels.

   a. During each year of the contract, the contractor shall design, in
       cooperation with other investigators in the NPP, a stimulating
       microelectrode array suitable for stimulation of selected neural
       populations within the CNS. The contractor shall fabricate and
       supply at least 30 arrays to other investigators for in-vivo
       evaluation. The contractor shall cooperate with other investigators
       in the evaluation of these microelectrode arrays.
       b. During the first year of the contract, the contractor shall
       design and fabricate a microelectrode stimulation array that
       incorporates active electronic multiplexing for the purpose of
       directing current controlled stimulus pulses from an external
       stimulator to one of several stimulation sites.

   i. Multiplexor electronics on the array shall direct each of four
       stimulator input signals to one of 16 stimulation sites. The
       multiplexor switches shall support currents up to +/-100 microamps
       and shall permit monitoring of the voltage at a selected site when
       not stimulating.
       ii. The number of lead wires needed to connect to the active
       microelectrode stimulation array shall not exceed 12 wires.
       iii. Stable operation in 0.9 % saline at 37 degrees C. for a period
       of one year shall be demonstrated.

   c. By the end of the second year of the contract, the contractor shall
   design and fabricate a biocompatible, microelectrode stimulation array
   that includes stimulus waveform generation circuitry and electronic
   multiplexing.

   i. The microelectrode stimulation array shall have at least 4
       stimulator circuits capable of generating stimulus pulses of -100
       to 100 microamperes in 1 microampere steps. The stimulator
       circuitry shall be capable of producing cathodic first, charge
       balanced stimulus pulses of 30 to 500 microseconds per phase with a
       variable delay of up to 500 microseconds between the phases.
       ii. Probes shall have multiplexor circuitry between the stimulators
       and electrodes that permits stimulation through any electrode.
       Switching from one electrode site to another shall take less than
       200 microseconds.
       iii. The probe operation shall include a mode that connects the
       stimulation sites through a low impedance to ground when not
       passing stimulating current.
       iv. The probe design shall permit anodic bias of the stimulation
       electrodes at 0.25 or .5 volts.
       v. The probe shall include an operating mode for electrode
       impedance monitoring and for electrode recording that permit
       recording or impedance checking of the microelectrodes.
       vi. The number of lead wires needed to connect to the active
       microelectrode stimulation array shall not exceed 12 wires.

   2. The contractor shall develop implantable multiplexing IC (s) capable
   of interfacing with each of the microelectrode stimulation arrays of
   item 1.

   a. The multiplexor shall require no more than 2 leads to connect to an
       extracorporal stimulator module.
       b. It shall be possible to anchor the multiplexing IC (or its
       carrier) to the skull using titanium screws.
       c. Passivation of the IC and associated cable shall permit
       operation in 0.9% saline at 37 degrees C. for a period of at least
       one year.
       d. The IC shall permit simultaneous stimulation pulses at 4 or more
       electrode sites.
       e. A cable suitable for connecting between the multiplexing IC and
       a percutaneous connector that can be threaded subcutaneously for
       distances of up to 10 cm shall be devised and fabricated.

   3. The contractor shall develop an integrated telemetry system and
   associated support circuitry that integrates with one of the 64 site
   microelectrode stimulation arrays of item 1 to provide a leadless
   stimulator system with power and telemetry supplied by electromagnetic
   coupling from an extracorporal coil. The implanted portion of the
   telemetry system can be integrated with the microelectrode array to
   provide a free floating unit or can attach to the microelectrode array
   via a flexible cable.

   4. The contractor shall design and fabricate a 3 dimensional
   stimulating array that provides at least 512 separate stimulation sites
   in a 3-dimensional grid with spacing between shanks of 400 microns. The
   microelectrode stimulation arrays designed in item 1 can be utilized as
   building components of this 3-dimensional array if appropriate.
   Specifications for electrode stimulating material and site spacing
   shall be as in item 1.

   a. The breaking of some of the array shanks shall not impair the
       function of the remaining shanks in an array.
       b. No more than 12 wires shall be required to connect to the 3
       dimensional array.

   5. The contractor shall design and construct software and external
   hardware to support the in-vitro testing and evaluation of the
   microelectrode stimulation arrays.

   6. In the performance of this contract, the Contractor shall coordinate
   its experimental program through the Project Officer with results of
   experimental findings developed by other collaborators in the Neural
   Prosthesis Program. Adjustments and changes so indicated shall be
   approved in advance by the Project Officer and if necessary, by the
   Contracting Officer.
