http://www.r5.pswfs.gov/summary/index.html

                             USDA Forest Service

                          Pacific Southwest Region

                     1323 Club Drive, Vallejo, CA 94592

                           Date: December 31, 2001

              Forest Service shield, which is the agency logo.

                   Contact: Rick Alexander   707-562-9014
                         Matt Mathes   707-562-9004

                 Summary of Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Review

   Today, Pacific Southwest Regional Forester Jack Blackwell sent Forest
   Service Chief Dale Bosworth the Region's proposed action plan on how to
   proceed with the review directed in the Chief's decision on the Sierra
   Nevada Forest Plan Amendment (SNFPA) appeals. The Regional Forester's
   letter and action plan accompany this summary.

    Pacific Southwest Region Actions

   Scanned image of the book cover for the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan
   Amendment, Record of Decision. The action plan calls for a six person
   team to review:
     * SNFPA fuels treatments,
     * consistency of SNFPA and the National Fire Plan, and
     * compatibility of SNFPA with the Herger-Feinstein Quincy Library
       Group (HFQLG) Forest Recovery Act.

   The Regional Forester is also directing the team to review other major
   issues raised in the appeals, including the possible but unintended
   impacts of the SNFPA on recreation, livestock grazing, and local
   communities near the national forests.

   The review will examine the SNFPA in the context of recent scientific
   findings, current policy and regulations, and what has been learned
   during the first year of implementation.

   The Region will work with tribes, other agencies, local governments and
   interested parties in an open process to quickly complete the review.
   Additional Forest Service staff will support the team's work as needed.

   The proposed action plan calls for the review to be completed within 12
   months.

   The review will result in improvements ranging from clarifications of
   SNFPA standards and guidelines to proposed amendments to the SNFPA. Any
   changes to the SNFPA will comply with the National Environmental Policy
   Act, National Forest Management Act, and other environmental laws.

   The action plan will evolve as the review progresses. In January 2002,
   the Regional Forester and the review team will begin filling in more
   details.

   Interested parties are encouraged to view the action plan and offer
   assistance or suggestions on how the Region should proceed with the
   review. The team will establish websites, hold public meetings and
   develop other ways in which people can follow the progress of the
   review and appropriately participate.

    Background

   On December 27, 2001 Mark Rey, USDA Under Secretary for Natural
   Resources and the Environment announced the results of his review of
   the appeals record and the Chief's decision on the appeals on the
   Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment. Rey affirmed Chief Bosworth's
   decision and his instructions to the Regional Forester. Rey will not
   conduct a discretionary review. He said, "I am confident that the
   Regional Forester will put forth an aggressive plan to respond to the
   Chief's decision and that he will continue to engage the public through
   an open, cooperative process. I am also confident that the Regional
   Forester's action plan will address a number of issues raised in the
   appeals that I reviewed."

   (The full text of Rey's statement is available at
   http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2001/12/0274.htm)

   In conjunction with Rey's announcement, Chief Dale Bosworth also
   released a statement, saying "Regional Forester Jack Blackwell can now
   begin to analyze the aspects of the plan that I addressed in my
   administrative appeal decision. My decision outlines critical areas
   where the plan can be improved. The Regional Forester's analysis will
   require refinement of the plan and may require proposing amendments to
   it."

   (The full text of Bosworth's statement is available at
   http://www.fs.fed.us/news/2001/12/12272001.html)

   The Chief's November 16, 2001 decision on the appeals directed the
   Pacific Southwest Region to review three elements of the SNFPA:
    1. re-evaluate the decision for possibilities of more flexibility in
       aggressive fuels treatment while still providing short-term and
       long-term protection for wildlife and other resources values.
    2. re-evaluate the decision based on possible new information
       associated with the National Fire Plan
    3. determine if additional opportunities exist to harmonize the goals
       of these two efforts [Herger-Feinstein Qunicy Library Group Forest
       Protection Act and the Sierra Nevada Forest Plan Amendment.]

   (The full text of the Chief's decision is available at
   http://www.fs.fed.us/forum/nepa/sierranevada.pdf)

                                     ###
