http://phlib.hpcc.noaa.gov/nav.html

       NOAA Photo Library Banner

       spacer

       Navigating the Collection

         There are three ways in which you can view the images in this
     Butterfly FIsh Image collection. You may browse individual albums,
     you may browse the catalogs of images, or you may search the
     collection by keyword.

     Browse the Albums

     The Photo Collection is arranged in a series of individual albums.
     To begin select an album from the list presented on the collections
     page.

     Once entering an album you will be provided with a short
     introduction followed by a table of contents. The table contains a
     sample image on the left, the album's sub-topic title, and a list of
     page numbers. To begin viewing the images, click on a page number to
     enter a web page that has up to twenty thumbnail images.

     Click on any of these thumbnail images to view a 700 pixel-wide
     image that will fill most of a screen set to 800x600 pixel
     resolution.

     Note! If your screen is set at 640x480, you will have to change the
     setting to 800x600 to view the full image without having to scroll
     from left to right. Also set your color at as high of setting as
     possible with 800x600 resolution.

Browse by Image Catalog

     If you wish to review hundreds of images rapidly, you may wish to
     use the Image Catalogs. The Image Catalogs are set up to mirror the
     structure of the databases that are used to describe and annotate
     individual images. Each catalog has a set of pages that present
     thumbnails of the images contained in the database along with
     descriptions. Larger versions of the images are viewed by clicking
     on the thumbnails. Some of the catalogs will correlate with a
     specific album such as the NSSL and NURP albums. However, most
     databases provide imagery to a number of albums so there is not a
     one-to-one correlation.

Search the Image Collection

     This web site supports a keyword search mechanism that allows the
     user to search on a term or terms . For best results, it is
     advisable to access the "help on searching" link prior to attempting
     searches.

     After activating a search, a listing of URL's (Internet addresses)
     of individual 700-pixel-wide images, 20-thumbnail album pages, or
     100-thumbnail index pages will appear. In general, those addresses
     closest to the top of the list will be most closely related to the
     requested image type.



       spacer

   line
   About This Web Site
   line

     spacer

     line

     Publication of the NOAA Central Library
     Last Updated: 10/23/00

     spacer
