http://dao.gsfc.nasa.gov/DAO_people/houser/l1/papers/ams97doc.html

                                  [img.gif]

   8.3

      Integration of Remote Sensing and Hydrologic Modeling Using Data
                                Assimilation

                 Paul R. Houser^* and W. James Shuttleworth

                   University of. Arizona, Tucson, Arizona

                 James S. Famiglietti, and Judith A Berglund

                     University of Texas, Austin, Texas

   1. Abstract

   The spatial-temporal distribution of near-surface soil moisture is
   central to the regulation of land-atmosphere water, energy, and carbon
   interaction. However, knowledge of these space-time dynamics and the
   processes which control them remains poor. The development of land
   hydrology parameterizations that emphasize soil moisture, and
   innovative remote sensing and surface-based techniques for measuring
   soil moisture, together promise a mechanism for the synthesis of
   regional fields of this vital hydrologic variable. Therefore, this
   project seeks to use data assimilation methods, to calculate synthetic
   soil moisture fields at regional scales by combining remotely sensed
   soil moisture data with soil-vegetation-atmosphere scheme predictions
   of soil moisture.

   The TOPLATS Surface-Vegetation-Atmosphere-Transfer Scheme (SVATS)
   (Famiglietti and Wood, 1994) incorporates subgrid-scale topographic and
   soil variability to simulate downslope redistribution of soil water
   which feeds back through the model to produce subgrid-scale variability
   in water table depth, soil water storage, and surface energy fluxes.
   The soil water balance component of this spatially-distributed
   hydrological model has been modified for use in remote sensing studies
   via the addition of a shallow, near surface soil layer. Schemes for the
   four-dimensional data assimilation of remotely-sensed soil moisture
   were also developed and incorporated, that could ultimately be applied
   at the regional scale. This leads to an improved characterization of
   near-surface soil moisture space-time dynamics and attendant processes,
   and contributes to an improved understanding of surface soil moisture
   scaling behavior and its impact on surface flux parameterization in
   land surface hydrological models and in models of weather and climate.

   2. Summary of Activity and Findings

   2.1 Precursory Investigation

   Several data development procedures are a necessary precursor to
   hydrological data assimilation, as follows:

   For successful assimilation studies, the modeled states need to be
   similar in definition to observations. Therefore, the soil partitioning
   of the spatially-distributed TOPLATS model was modified to include an
   additional surface layer to facilitate data assimilation of near
   surface soil moisture derived from passive microwave radiometers which
   are only sensitive to moisture in the top 5-10 centimeters of soil.

   Data assimilation methodologies generally require high-quality,
   temporally-continuous, spatially-distributed model predictions. Since
   this had not been done at Walnut Gulch, the preparation of required
   model input data and parameter sets was laborious. Precipitation is
   considered the most important spatial forcing in semi-arid regions due
   to its highly variable convective nature, therefore much effort was
   devoted to deriving spatially distributed precipitation data sets for
   the Monsoon '90 experiment. Additionally, spatially variable vegetation
   and soil parameters were derived from a detailed soil and vegetation
   survey and GIS coverages for Walnut Gulch (Breckenfeld, 1993).

   A orthophoto derived DEM was used to find the topographic index. DEMs
   of this type have the unique property that each value of elevation is
   independent of those nearby, so it contains a substantial noise
   component. It was necessary to remove this noise by developing and
   applying spatial averaging and hole filling algorithms.

   Finally, the surface soil moisture assimilation data set was derived
   from NASA's Push Broom Microwave Radiometer brightness temperatures on
   six days during the Monsoon '90 field campaign (Schmugge et al, 1994).
   A inverse distance weighting scheme was developed and applied between
   gravimetric-based calibrations available at several sites to convert
   each of the microwave brightness temperature images into soil moisture
   estimates.

   2.2 SVATS Calibration

   Successful data assimilation requires model predictions with a low
   error component if information is to be advected into data sparse
   temporal and spatial regions. Therefore, extensive model evaluation and
   calibration was required.

   Our hypothesis was that spatially-variable soil and vegetation
   information would improve local model predictions. But the polygon
   nature of these data sets was unrealistically reflected in the
   simulations. No such patterns were seen in the PBMR observations. A
   parameter sensitivity study revealed that spatial variation in
   vegetation parameters have little effect on model predictions, but that
   soil parameters have a large effect This problem is probably not a
   simple mis-specification of parameter values, but rather it is an
   artifact of discretely assigning a single set of parameters to large
   areas (polygon) of soil. Smoothing of these polygon features is likely
   to decrease these difficulties. But, meanwhile soil and vegetation
   parameters were kept spatially constant in our subsequent data
   assimilation studies, leaving only topographic index and precipitation
   as spatially varying entities.

   The inability of TOPLATS to accurately simulate the latent and sensible
   heat fluxes observed at Monsoon '90, and comparison of Monsoon '90
   fluxes to typical Sonoran desert surface flux magnitudes from
   measurements made at other nearby sites lead us to doubt the
   reliability of these measurements. In fact, the only area that has
   similar fluxes to those measured during Monsoon '90 was an irrigated
   agricultural field in Obregon, Mexico. So, a water balance was
   performed for the Monsoon '90 observation period, which showed that
   measured evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation by 40%, which is not
   physically realistic for this area. Therefore, to be consistent with
   the water balance and for the purpose of TOPLATS model validation,
   measured values of ET were scaled down by 40% and (to preserve the
   energy balance) sensible heat scaled up by 100%. This correction factor
   was verified with a accurate, sonic anemometer-based eddy correlation
   system deployed during the 1996 monsoon season.

   The TOPLATS model has many parameters which must be specified for its
   implementation at Walnut Gulch. Several parameters were directly
   observable and their values could be readily specified in the model,
   but others are non-physical and were derived by optimization. A series
   of automatic calibration procedures using Monte-Carlo, multi-objective,
   pareto set techniques were developed for this SVATS and resulted in
   large improvements in the model's performance at Walnut Gulch.

   2.3 Data Assimilation

   2.3.1 Simple Approaches

   Several simple data assimilation approaches were developed to evaluate
   model and data error, and for comparison with more sophisticated,
   computationally demanding methods.

   Direct insertion, the simplest form of data assimilation, was used as
   the first step towards the development of a soil moisture data
   assimilation system. Here it is assumed that observations are perfect
   and model calculations contain no information; this approach allows
   initial insight into the relative size of data and model errors. Model
   state variables are simply replaced with observed data at the time of
   the observation in an updating scheme, and no spatial propagation of
   the observations are made. Updating was found to improve model
   predictions in the areas where soil moisture was observed, but it
   created undesirable discontinuities in model predictions, preserved
   local observation error patterns, and was unable to extend information
   from the observation region to other areas.

   A second very simple assimilation technique, which we term 'statistical
   correction', was developed to address some of the weaknesses of
   updating. This technique involves adjusting the mean and standard
   deviation of the entire model domain to match the mean and standard
   deviation of the observation image. It is only applicable to areas that
   have large numbers of observations (such as remotely sensed data), but
   is computationally efficient. In the time domain it performs similarly
   to updating, but is also able to spread observation information
   horizontally and it does not preserve local observation errors within
   the model fields. Its drawback is that it preserves none of the pattern
   information contained in the observations.

   The sensitivity of model predictions to omitting or including a set of
   observations was explored using the statistical corrections
   assimilation technique. It was found that the assimilation performance
   does degrade with less observation information, and that it degrades
   most profoundly when the nearest observation to the time of comparison
   is missing.

   2.3.2 Newtonian Nudging

   Newtonian nudging was implemented to address deficiencies on the
   above-described simple data assimilation methods and to extend
   information vertically into the root and transmission zones. Newtonian
   nudging adds an increment to the model's prognostic equation that
   nudges the model toward an observation or set of observations in a
   predefined space-time window using the equation:

                                 [img1.gif]

   where is the state variable being predicted by the model; [o] is the
   observation of ; F is the forcing on , which depends on previous values
   of , other model fluxes X, and time t; G is the nudging coefficient,
   which accounts for the observational quality; and W is the four
   dimensional weighting function. These weights are determined using a
   set of three simple, predefined (horizontal, vertical, and temporal)
   functions which assign a weight to an observation that decreases as
   that observation's temporal and spatial distance increases from the
   model point being corrected.

   Newtonian nudging is best used with few observations because it is
   computationally demanding and because surprisingly, the weights tend to
   decrease with increasing numbers of observations. In fact it makes more
   sense to have increasing weight with increasing information, so the
   traditional Newtonian nudging method was adapted for use with remote
   sensing data by modifying the weighting structure so that it does not
   fall with increasing numbers of observations.

   Overall, the Newtonian nudging methodology, was found to result in
   spatial patterns that are very similar to those derived from the
   statistical correction methodology, but it gave the added benefit of
   vertical assimilation and more gradual temporal change.

   2.3.3 Statistical Interpolation

   To implement statistical interpolation, the most commonly used method
   of data assimilation, the error characteristics of the model and
   observations must be assessed. Statistical Interpolation is implemented
   using the following equation:

                                 [img2.gif]

   where K is the number of observation points, W[ik] is the weight
   function, f(r) is the analysis variable (soil moisture), r is the
   three-dimensional spatial coordinates, f[Z](r[i]) is the analyzed value
   of f at the analysis gridpoint r[i], f[B](r[i]) is the background, or
   first guess value of f at r[i], and f[O](r[k]) and f[B](r[k]) are the
   observed and background values, respectively, and the observation
   station r[k]. The weights are determined by least squares minimization
   of the above equation. With the assumptions of no correlation between
   background and observation error and isotropic, time invariant error
   correlation, the weight can be found by solving K equations for K
   unknowns, thus

                                 [img3.gif]

   where [O] is the observation error correlation matrix, and [B] is the
   background error correlation matrix. This equation is greatly
   simplified in our case because there is no observation error
   correlation, ^2[O]. Thus the only correlation structure to be defined
   is the background error correlation matrix. This correlation function
   was determined using 5 or 6 of the PBMR images respectively. The
   addition of one more time step in the PBMR soil moisture time series
   results in much better description of this correlation relationship.
   Thus we can make the hypothesis that an even longer time series will
   result in much better correlation relationships. A correlation function
   was fitted (using least squares, simplex minimization of its 2
   parameters) to this correlation relationship for use in the statistical
   interpolation algorithm.

   Statistical interpolation also allows for vertical assimilation through
   specification of a vertical background error correlation function. PBMR
   observations are not available outside the surface soil zone of course,
   so explicit definition of this function is not possible. But a
   surrogate exists in other profile soil moisture measurements. In this
   study, the only soil moisture observations at depth are from time
   domain reflectrometry at two locations. Using these measurements the
   vertical background error correlations between the surface and root
   zone were found.

   The soil moisture correlation length scale was also explored, and was
   found to exceed the observation area and to be unaffected by the soil
   moisture inversion algorithm.

   As for Newtonian nudging, statistical interpolation works poorly with
   large numbers of observations. In statistical interpolation, solving
   for K (~35,000 per PBMR image) unknowns with K equations for each grid
   in the model domain (~90,000) poses a excessive computational demand.
   Therefore, the problem was scaled down using a random selection of
   observations including the closest observation which contains the most
   information, or by computing 'super observations' which are simple
   averages of observation groups. The random approach approximates the
   fully-posed problem giving undesirable banding patterns outside the
   observation area, and the super observation approach yields smoother,
   more realistic spatial patterns. The random approach reverts to direct
   insertion where observations are available which is undesirable.

   Figure 1 shows the temporal surface soil moisture improvements, and
   Figure 2 gives examples of typical spatial patterns for each of the
   assimilation techniques described.

   3. Conclusions:

   Important new contributions are made here, the most significant being
   the assimilation of soil moisture data into a spatially distributed
   hydrological model, enhancing prediction ability. Other subsidiary
   contributions include development of a remote sensing sensitive SVATS,
   a detailed spatially-variable Walnut Gulch data set, a methodology for
   the multi-objective automatic calibration of SVATS, a correction
   methodology for Monsoon '90 surface fluxes. A new, simple and effective
   'statistical correction' assimilation technique was introduced, and the
   Newtonian nudging weighting structure and the statistical interpolation
   methodology was adapted for use with high-density remote sensing
   observations. Correction of the polygon simulation artifacts caused by
   spatially variable soil and vegetation parameter sets, and
   implementation of hydrologic assimilation at larger scales are future
   tasks.

   4. References

   Breckenfeld, Donald J., 1993. Soil Survey of Walnut Gulch Experimental
   Watershed, Arizona. Soil Conservation Service unpublished document.

   Famiglietti, J. S., and Wood, E. F., 1994. Application of multiscale
   water and energy balance models on a tallgrass prairie. Water Resources
   Research, 30(11): 3061-3078.

   Schmugge, T., Jackson, T. J., Kustas, W. P., Roberts, R., Parry, R.,
   Goodrich, D. C., Amer, S. A., and Weltz, M. A., 1994. Push broom
   microwave radiometer observations of surface soil moisture in Monsoon
   '90. Water Resources Research, 30(5):1321-1328.

                                [Ams971a.gif]

                                [ams971b.gif]

       Figure 1: Temporal areal average surface soil moisture patterns
                produced by various assimilation techniques.

                                [Ams972a.gif]

                                [Ams972b.gif]

   Figure 2: Typical spatial patterns (day of year=219) produced by a) no
      assimilation, b) direct insertion, c) statistical corrections, d)
   nudging, and e) random observation and f) super observation statistical
                               interpolation.
