http://mplm.msfc.nasa.gov/MPLM%20Data/Presentations/SSP_30223_REV_J.pdf

   SSP 30223 Problem Reporting and Corrective Action for the Space Station
   Program International Space Station Program Revision J May 29, 2000
   Type 1 National Aeronautics and Space Administration International
   Space Station Program Johnson Space Center Houston, Texas Contract No.
   NAS15-10000 REVISION AND HISTORY PAGE REV DESCRIPTION PUB DATE Base
   REFERENCE SSCBD BB000227 01-26-87 Rev. A REFERENCE THE ELECTRONIC
   BASELINE REFORMATTED 04-08-88 VERSION Rev. B REFERENCE SSCBD BB000471B
   EFF 10-30-90 AND DOCUMENT CONVERSION TO NATIVE POST SCRIPT REFERENCE
   SSCBD NO. BB000727 09-28-90 Rev. C REFERENCE SSCBD BB000896C 10-11-91
   Rev. C1 REFERENCE SSCBD BB003200 06-03-92 Rev. D REFERENCE SSCBD
   BB003200A 07-10-92 Rev. E REFERENCE SSCBD 000026 EFF. 4-14-94 04-04-94
   Rev. F Revision F reflecting NASA/ Prime technical convergence
   agreements - 11-07-94 Ref. 8-31-94 MOU (REFERENCE SSCBD 000082 EFF.
   11-04-94) Rev. G Revision G reflecting NASA/ ISS Prime Contractor
   technical clarification 03-06-98 agreements - Rev. H Revision H
   reflecting NASA/ ISS Prime Contractor process improvement 09-30-99
   agreements during the November 4, 1998 PRACA TIM and Flight 2A
   "On-Orbit" Lessons Learned. Also includes ISS Payloads Office PRACA
   requirements. Rev. J Revision J reflecting technical clarification
   agreements. 02-29-00 ii INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION PROGRAM PROBLEM
   REPORTING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REPORTING FOR THE SPACE STATION PROGRAM
   MAY 29, 2000 PREFACE Design, manufacturing, and operational
   discrepancies discovered in International Space Station (ISS) hardware
   are resolved through use of an organized system of problem reporting,
   analysis, resolution, and trending. This document establishes
   requirements and responsibilities for establishing and operating the
   Space Station Problem Reporting and Corrective Action (PRACA) system as
   required by SSP 41173, Space Station Quality Assurance Requirements.
   The implementation of these requirements provide for effective
   recurrence control, provides experience data retention, and minimizes
   the technical and schedule impact of problems. The objective of the ISS
   PRACA system is to utilize existing National Aeronautics and Space
   Administration (NASA), Contractor, Payload Developer, and International
   Partner/ Participant (IP/P) engineering and management infrastructure
   for problem resolution and disposition. The requirements of this
   document shall apply to the NASA International Space Station Program
   Office (ISSPO), the ISS Prime Contractor, and NASA/ Prime organizations
   responsible for providing equipment or processing to be used as a part
   of the ISS system. These requirements cover the reporting, processing
   and resolution of all problems on equipment for which the ISSPO,
   including the ISS Payloads Office, and Government Furnished Equipment
   (GFE) offices have responsibility. The IP/Ps shall maintain a Problem
   Reporting system as defined in the NASA/ International Partners/
   Participants Bilateral Agreements. The contents of this document are
   intended to be consistent with the tasks and products to be prepared by
   Program participants. The Problem Reporting and Corrective Action
   Requirements for the International Space Station Program shall be
   implemented on all new ISS contractual and internal activities and
   shall be included in existing contracts through contract changes. This
   document is under the control of the International Space Station Safety
   and Mission Assurance (S&MA) Panel, and changes or revisions to this
   document will be approved by the NASA and Prime S&MA Managers (or
   delegated representatives). iii INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION PROGRAM
   PROBLEM REPORTING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SPACE
   STATION PROGRAM MAY 29, 2000 CONCURRENCE PREPARED BY: M.Wolf OE PRINT
   NAME ORGN SIGNATURE DATE CHECKED BY: D. Dyer OE PRINT NAME ORGN
   SIGNATURE DATE BOEING M. Martin 2-6614 Safety and Mission Assurance
   PRINT NAME ORGN Office SIGNATURE DATE NASA J. Holsomback OE Safety and
   Mission Assurance PRINT NAME ORGN Office SIGNATURE DATE NASA W. Panter
   OD Avionics and Software Office PRINT NAME ORGN SIGNATURE DATE NASA M.
   Sufferdini OB Vehicle Office PRINT NAME ORGN SIGNATURE DATE DQA PRINT
   NAME ORGN SIGNATURE DATE iv INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION PROGRAM PROBLEM
   REPORTING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SPACE STATION
   PROGRAM LIST OF CHANGES MAY 29, 2000 All changes to paragraphs, tables,
   and figures in this document are shown below: ENTRY DATE CHANGE
   PARAGRAPH (S) October 26, 1994 F 1.3, 3.1, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.2, 3.3,
   4.1.3, 4.1.3.1, 5.0, 5.3, 5.4, 6.1, 6.3, A.1, B.1 May 6, 1998 G All
   Paragraphs September 30, 1999 H 2.1, 3.1, 3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.3, 3.3.1,
   3.3.2, 4.2, 5, 9, A.1, B.1 February 29, 2000 J All Paragraphs v TABLE
   OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION
   .......................................................................
   ................................................................... 1-1
   1.1
   PURPOSE................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ............. 1-1 1.2
   SCOPE..................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ................ 1-1 2. DOCUMENTS
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   .. 2-1 2.1 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
   .......................................................................
   ............................................ 2-1 2.2 ASSOCIATED WEB
   SITE
   .......................................................................
   .................................................. 2-1 3. HARDWARE
   PROBLEM REPORTING AND CORRECTIVE
   ACTION.............................................. 3-1 3.1 ENTERING
   NONCONFORMANCE IN PDS NONCONFORMANCE PARTITION
   ..................................................... 3-2 3.2
   PROMOTING/ENTERING PROBLEM IN PDS PROBLEM
   PARTITION..............................................................
   .... 3-2 3.3 ASSIGNING
   LEVELS.................................................................
   ......................................................................
   3-3 3.4 PROBLEM RESOLUTION
   RESPONSIBILITIES.......................................................
   ............................................. 3-3 3.5 CLOSING
   PROBLEMS...............................................................
   ......................................................................
   3-3 A. APPENDIX A ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
   .......................................................................
   ................................... A-1 B. APPENDIX B DEFINITIONS
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ..... B-1 vi 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 PURPOSE The purpose of this document
   is to define the requirements of the International Space Station (ISS)
   Problem Reporting and Corrective Action (PRACA) system. ISS PRACA
   provides a closed-loop process for the reporting, processing,
   dispositioning, and documenting corrective action(s) for problems
   involving ISS hardware, payloads, and ground support equipment (GSE).
   The goal is to assure that all reportable problems are evaluated and
   the appropriate corrective actions taken in a timely and cost effective
   manner. The ISS PRACA Data System (PDS) is the database that allows for
   the reporting of problems defined in this document. The ISS PDS shall
   be accessible to everyone under the scope of these requirements. The
   ISS PDS shall provide the ability to access failure history, allow for
   the identification of trends and statistics, and provide engineering
   data for corrective action and design improvement. The ISS PRACA
   process for hardware problems is addressed herein. The process for
   software problems is documented in SSP 50200-01-AnxD, Station Program
   Implementation Plan Volume 1: Station Program management Plan Annex D:
   Avionics & Software Office Plan. 1.2 SCOPE The requirements in this
   document apply to all elements and sites involved in the manufacture,
   assembly, handling, testing, use, or repair of ISS hardware, payloads,
   or GSE equipment with the following exceptions: (1) Requirements for
   the International Partners/ Participants are defined in NASA/ IP/P
   Bilateral S&MA Requirements documents and NASA/ IP/PsBilateral Data
   Exchange Agreements, Lists and Schedules documents; (2) Johnson Space
   Center (JSC) GFE shall follow the PRACA requirements and processes
   established in JSC 28035; (3) Software problems shall follow the PRACA
   requirements and processes established in SSP 50200-01- AnxD; (4)
   Payload problems are only required to report Level 1 problems; and (5)
   On-orbit problems are entered directly into the ISS Problem Partition.
   ISS development and sustaining organizations shall specify those
   activities and processes necessary to comply with the requirements set
   forth in this document by developing and implementing command media
   (program directives, procedures, bulletins, etc.) to encompass the
   scope of their operations and responsibilities for the PRACA process.
   1-1 2. DOCUMENTS 2.1 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS The following documents of
   the date and issue shown include specifications, models, standards,
   guidelines, handbooks, and other special publications. "Current Issue"
   is shown in parentheses in place of the specific date and issue when
   the document is under International Space Station Control Board control
   or the JSC document control system. The status of documents identified
   by "Current Issue" may be determined from the International Space
   Station Program Baseline Activity Index and Status Report. The
   documents in this paragraph are applicable to the extent specified
   herein. DOCUMENT NO. TITLE D684-10530-01 PRACA Implementation Procedure
   Current Revision JSC 28035 JSC Government-Furnished Equipment (GFE)
   Problem Reporting and Corrective Current Revision Action (PRACA)
   Requirements SSP 30234 Failure Modes and Effects Analysis and Critical
   Items List Requirements for Space Current Revision Station SSP 30524
   Problem Reporting and Corrective Action (PRACA) Data System (PDS)
   Current Revision Requirements Definition Document (RDD) for the Space
   Station Program. SSP 41173 Space Station Quality Assurance Requirements
   Current Revision SSP 50200-01-AnxD Station Program Implementation Plan
   (SPIP) Volume 1: Station Program Current Revision Management Plan Annex
   D: Avionics & Software Office Plan SSP 50431 Space Station Program
   Requirements for Payloads (PRP) Current Revision 2.2 ASSOCIATED WEB
   SITE The JSC Intranet website that supports ISS PDS may be accessed
   through the PRACA homepage at address:
   http://iss-www.jsc.nasa.gov/ss/issapt/praca All JSC on-site and
   off-site employees and contractors have access to the JSC Intranet and
   the PRACA homepage. Refer to SSP 30524 for information on obtaining
   access to the JSC Intranet. 2-1 3. HARDWARE PROBLEM REPORTING AND
   CORRECTIVE ACTION The ISS PRACA database shall warehouse program
   nonconformance records that meet established criteria. This gives the
   ISS program the capability to address the long-term goals of
   identifying hardware trends, supporting on- orbit anomaly resolution,
   and providing management visibility into significant problems. A subset
   of these nonconformances shall be "promoted" to the status of a problem
   report in the PDS providing NASA the means to be involved and approve
   the failure analyses and recurrence control activities. Figure 3-1
   depicts an overview of the process for ISS hardware. Nonconformance oc
   curs* *O ccurs subsequent to m anuf acturing or dev elopment Isolated
   and Dispos itioned W ork recurrence I mplement Disposition control ac
   tivities , Stop 10 days if required Nonconformanc e must be 2 days
   report ed into partition within 2 **Sc reened out are those records
   documenting bus ines s days after isolation to documentation errors ;
   written to fac ilitate Sc reened Yes S top the hardware but not later
   than planning, inspec tion, ass embly , or other activit ies; out?** 10
   bus ines s days after or written to rec ord general observations or
   occurrenc e (if not is olated). information No Boeing Nonc onformanc e
   Sys tems Entered into PDS PDS Nonconformance Partition Nonconformanc e
   Partition** What is Sc reened Crit 3 or c riticality by SPRT N/A
   effect? S top Crit 1 or 2 P DS Nonc onformanc e Partition O n-orbit, No
   Entered into Elevate to PR? Yes PDS P roblem Payload, or PDS Problem P
   artition IP/P Partition Nonconformance PDS P roblem Partition Sc
   reening Criteria TT &E and/ 1) Cos metic defects (i.e. does not affec t
   form , fit, or or F ailure func tion); analys es 2) Operator or test s
   et-up errors when the procedures and/or training are adequate and there
   is no overstress to the hardware; 3) Defec t's dispos itioned by an
   approved s tandard Corrective action repair procedure and there is no
   need for recurrenc e implemented and verified c ont rol ac tion;
   effective 4) Items ex ceeding s helf life; or 5) Leakage exceeding
   specific ation requirem ents oc curring as a res ult of s ys tem ass
   embly/ re- as sembly which are res olved by routine procedures SPRT
   agrees (e.g. rec ycling, retorquing fitting, line adjustment, to clos e
   and etc .). signs PR Program PRB P rogram Manager Need Program Level I?
   Yes rev iews and or Deputy Progam Manager or Deputy Y es approves PR
   Manager reviews Approval? and approves No No Stop Figure 3-1: Hardware
   Problem Reporting Process 3-1 3.1 Entering Nonconformance In PDS
   Nonconformance Partition Whenever hardware that is representative of
   the flight hardware to be used on the ISS fails to meet its'
   specification or is overstressed; a nonconformance report shall be
   written to document and disposition the condition. This applies to all
   hardware indenture levels. Nonconformances that occur on hardware that
   is representative of flight hardware subsequent to manufacturing shall
   be entered into the ISS PDS Nonconformance Partition. Nonconformance
   records that shall not be entered are those documenting documentation
   errors; written to facilitate planning, inspection, assembly, or other
   activities; or written to record general observations or information.
   Note: "Representative of flight hardware" means Flight hardware
   (including qualification/proto- flight/flight-like hardware but not
   Flight Equivalent Unit (FEU)), Flight spares, Flight Support Equipment
   (FSE), Orbital Support Equipment (OSE) (including Laboratory Support
   Equipment (LSE)) and safety critical GSE. Trend codes shall be added to
   all nonconformance records in the PDS Nonconformance Partition. These
   codes are the subsystem, criticality, defect, and cause codes per SSP
   30524. After coding, those records that will not be promoted require no
   additional work in the ISS PDS system. Nonconformance records shall be
   entered into the PDS Nonconformance Partition within two (2) business
   days after the nonconformance is isolated to the flight representative
   hardware but no later than ten (10) business days after
   occurrence/detection. Should a nonconformance occur which potentially
   jeopardizes the flight crew's safety, ground crew's safety, or mission
   success, then the NASA SPRT co-chair shall be notified as soon as
   possible but not to exceed twenty four (24) hours after
   occurrence/detection. The NASA SPRT co-chair is responsible for
   notifying the ISS Program Office of the situation and, if appropriate,
   the Mission Evaluation Room manager. 3.2 Promoting/Entering Problem In
   PDS Problem Partition A nonconformance in the PDS Nonconformance
   Partition shall be promoted to the PDS Problem Partition when the
   failure effect criticality is 1, 1R, 1S, 1SR, 1P, 2, or 2R (per SSP
   30234) or when the assigned System Problem Resolution Team (SPRT)
   determines there is a need to document the failure analyses and
   recurrence control action(s) based on trend data, past experience, or
   the significance of the nonconformance should it recur on-orbit.
   Nonconformance records shall not be promoted for the following unless
   directed by the System Problem Resolution Team (SPRT): 1) Cosmetic
   defects (i.e. does not affect form, fit, or function); 2) Operator or
   test set-up errors when the procedures and/or training are adequate and
   there is no overstress to the hardware; 3) Defect's dispositioned by an
   approved standard repair procedure and there is no need for recurrence
   control action; 4) Items exceeding shelf life; or 5) Leakage exceeding
   specification requirements occurring as a result of system
   assembly/re-assembly which are resolved by routine procedures (e.g.
   recycling, retorquing fitting, line adjustment, etc.) and no recurrence
   control action required. Nonconformances that are not entered in the
   PDS Nonconformance Partition shall be entered directly into the PDS
   Problem Partition per the above requirements. On-orbit hardware
   anomalies shall be processed directly into the PDS Problem Partition.
   However, the following list of anomalies are not required to be
   reported into the PDS Problem Partition: 1) Unexpected hardware
   performance that is within specification limits; 2) Hardware failures
   due to incorrect Crew operations if no damage or overstress exists; 3)
   Planned maintenance; 4) Explained Caution & Warning indications if no
   hardware failure exists; 5) Unexpected, incorrect, or inconsistent
   telemetry if no hardware failure exists; 6) Ground data does not match
   on-orbit data if no hardware failure exists but can be explained; 3-2
   7) Vehicle (e.g., Orbiter) failures that do not cross ISS boundaries;
   8) Ground facility nonconformances (e.g. Mission Control Center). 3.3
   Assigning Levels Nonconformance records promoted to the PDS Problem
   Partition shall be classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Level 1 problems
   are those meeting any one of the following criteria: 1) The failure
   effect criticality is 1, 1R, 1S, 1SR, 1P, 2, or 2R and a) The root
   cause can not be identified, b) Corrective or recurrence control
   actions, although appropriate for the problem, will not be implemented,
   c) System Problem Resolution Team (SPRT) recommends termination of
   failure investigation prior to firm determination of root cause, d) The
   problem is not detectable at qualification testing, acceptance testing
   or inspection, or during the normal service of the component, or e) The
   problem condition is not fully restored to compliance and a "use as is"
   disposition is proposed. 2) The problem occurrence or its' resolution
   impacts a launch schedule or on-orbit assembly sequence; 3) The problem
   affects a functional/physical interface between ISS Prime Contractor,
   Payload, GFE, and/or IP/P hardware; 4) The problem affects common
   hardware used by payloads (per SSP 50431); or 5) System Problem
   Resolution Team (SPRT) determines that Level 1 approval is required. If
   the problem report does not meet any of the Level 1 criteria, the
   problem report is considered a Level 2 problem. NOTE: When a PR closure
   is implementing a Program Change Directive (e.g. modification, waiver,
   exception, etc.) approved by a Program board or panel that would
   normally have Level 1 authority for the PR closure, the PR may be
   closed by the Level 2 SPRT with the approved change and supporting
   documentation attached to the PRACA report. 3.4 Problem Resolution
   Responsibilities System Problem Resolution Teams (SPRTs) shall be
   established and chartered by the ISS Program Office. The SPRTs are
   responsible for: 1) Evaluating records in the PDS Nonconformance
   Partition to identify trends; 2) Promoting records to the PDS Problem
   Partition; 3) Identifying the flight(s)/stage(s) affected; classifying
   the problem's level; 4) Developing test, teardown, and evaluation
   (TT&E) and/or failure analyses plans to identify the root cause; 5)
   Determining the corrective action(s) necessary to prevent recurrence of
   the problem; 6) Ensuring the verification of the implementation and
   effectiveness of the corrective action(s); 7) Ensuring the data entered
   into the PDS Problem Partition is accurate and complete to support
   future failure history investigations and trending efforts; 8) Coding
   problem reports to support trending; 9) Closing or presenting to the
   Program for closure all open problems in the PDS Problem Partition for
   the respective system, in a timely manner; and 10) Performing trending
   analyses to identify preventative or maintenance actions. The
   appropriate Program Problem Review Boards (PRBs) shall be established
   and chartered by the ISS Program Office. The Program PRBs are
   responsible for reviewing and approving the problem reports classified
   as Level 1. 3.5 Closing Problems A problem shall be closed when the
   article in question has been dispositioned, a root cause has been
   identified, adequate corrective action has been defined, implemented,
   and verified as effective for preventing recurrence of the problem. In
   the event corrective action is not implemented, the problem closure
   must address the root cause or a 3-3 most probable cause, rationale for
   not implementing corrective action, and the consequences of the problem
   recurring on-orbit. This includes the methods of detection on-orbit,
   the mission effects, operational workarounds, and methods of recovery.
   3-4 SSP 30223 APPENDIX A - ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS CFE Contractor
   Furnished Equipment FEU Flight Equivalent Unit FSE Flight Support
   Equipment GFE Government Furnished Equipment GSE Ground Support
   Equipment IP/P International Partner/ Participant ISS International
   Space Station ISSPO International Space Station Program Office JSC
   Johnson Space Center LSE Laboratory Support Equipment MRB Material
   Review Board NASA National Aeronautic and Space Administration OSE
   Orbital Support Equipment PDS PRACA Data System PR Problem Report PRACA
   Problem Reporting and Corrective Action PRB Problem Review Board PRP
   Program Requirements for Payloads RDD Requirements Definitions Document
   S&MA Safety and Mission Assurance SE Sustaining Engineering SPRT System
   Problem Resolution Team TT&E Test, Teardown and Evaluation A-1 SSP
   30223 APPENDIX B - DEFINITIONS Definitions of technical terms related
   to the ISS PRACA system are as follows: Acceptance Testing - Tests to
   determine that a part, component, subsystem, or system is capable of
   meeting performance requirements prescribed in purchase specifications
   or other documents specifying what constitutes the adequate performance
   capability for the item in question. Refer to SSP 41173. Adverse Trend
   - A problem detected during trend analysis by the design or user
   cognizant organization for hardware nonconformance, which has been
   shown to need recurrence control. Anomaly - An unexpected event,
   hardware damage, a departure from past experience, established
   procedures or performance, or a deviation of system, subsystem, and/ or
   hardware performance outside certified design/ performance
   specification limits. Approved Standard Repair  Specific repair
   instructions as documented on the nonconformance record and approved by
   the Material Review Board (MRB) prior to the repair activity. Closed
   Problem - A problem is closed when NASA concurs with the problem
   analysis (including determination of the cause) and the corrective
   action to preclude recurrence of the problem is implemented or
   acceptable rationale is provided for not implementing corrective
   action. Contractor-Furnished Equipment (CFE) - Hardware provided under
   the International Space Station Program (SSP) end item hardware
   contract by the ISS Prime Contractor. Corrective Action  An action(s)
   taken to eliminate the root cause of a problem to prevent its
   recurrence. Criticality - per SSP 30234 The FMEA shall include
   criticality category assignments for the effects of all failure modes
   considered in the applicable mission phases. The criticality should be
   assigned based on the identified effects on the SS/ Crew. Prime shall
   document the assumptions used in relating functional loss to crew
   effects. In the event failure tolerance has not been allocated to an
   end item, then the Prime may assume that the redundancy is provided at
   the segment level and assign the criticality based on this assumption.
   Criticality categories are as follows: Category Definition 1 Single
   failure point that could result in loss of Space Station (SS) or loss
   of flight or ground personnel. 1R Redundant items, all of which if
   failed, could result in loss of ISS or loss of flight or ground
   personnel. 1S A single failure point of the system component designed
   to provide safety or protection capability against a potentially
   hazardous condition or event or a single failure point in a safety or
   hazard monitoring system that causes the system to fail to detect, or
   operate when needed during the existence of a hazardous condition that
   could lead to loss of flight or ground personnel or ISS (e.g., fire
   suppression, medical hardware, etc.) 1SR Redundant components designed
   to provide safety or protection capability against a potentially
   hazardous condition or event, all of which if failed could cause the
   system to fail to detect, or operate when needed during the existence
   of a hazardous condition that could lead to loss of flight or ground
   personnel or SS; OR redundant components within a safety or hazard
   monitoring system, all of which if failed could cause the system to
   fail to detect, or operate when needed during the existence of a
   hazardous condition that could lead to loss of flight or B-1 SSP 30223
   ground personnel or SS. 1P A single failure point which is protected by
   a safety device, whereby the proper functioning of the safety device,
   would prevent the hazardous consequences of the failed (protected)
   component. 2 Single failure point that could result in loss of critical
   mission support capability. 2R Redundant items, all of which if failed,
   could result in loss of critical mission support capability. 3 All
   others. The criticality categorization of a failure mode shall be made
   on the basis of the worstcase potential failure effect regardless of
   probability of occurrence. For 1R, 1SR, and 2R items, the number of
   valid success paths, at the associated level of integration, which are
   available to accomplish the function as well as the number required to
   meet failure tolerance requirements shall be identified (reference SSP
   30234 Appendix C, Items 32 and 33). Failure - The inability of a
   system, subsystem, component, or part to perform its specified function
   within specified limits, under specified conditions, and for a
   specified duration. Flight Constraint - Unacceptable risk to mission or
   safety that causes a constraint to be placed on the applicable flight.
   Flight Equivalent Unit (FEU) - Hardware utilized to functionally
   demonstrate or simulate flight hardware operations. Hardware
   configuration does not necessarily match flight configuration.
   Flightlike Hardware  Non-flight equipment which is built to the
   following: a) Manufacturing processes, which are identical or
   significantly similar to those, utilized in flight equipment. b)
   Contain parts or assemblies which are identical or significantly
   similar* in design to flight hardware (includes manufacturing processes
   at the piece part level). c) Equipment whose design (electrical or
   mechanical) is identical or significantly similar* to flight equipment
   when such design is critical to functional performance. * Significantly
   similar is defined as commonality between parts, processes, or design
   such that the differences have no impact on the final performance of
   the equipment (e.g., solder, SN60 vs. SN63, has no difference to
   eventual equipment performance). Government-Furnished Equipment (GFE) -
   Equipment in the possession of, or directly acquired by, the government
   from suppliers other than the ISS Prime Contractor and subsequently
   made available to the ISS Program. Ground Support Equipment (GSE) -
   Ground-based equipment functionally designed to support flight hardware
   servicing, checkout, test, movement, alignment, protection, or
   calibration. GSE will be delivered to the government. International
   Partner/ Participant (IP/P) - Those non-U.S. space agencies that
   formally participate in the ISS Program. Laboratory Support Equipment
   (LSE) - LSE are devices that are shared on a non-interference basis by
   multiple research users. LSE varies in size and complexity from a
   simple thermometer to full size ISPR containing a refrigerator/freezer.
   B-2 SSP 30223 Launch Processing Constraint - The specific event beyond
   which processing cannot proceed without incorporation of required
   remedial action or recurrence control. Nonconformance - A condition of
   any article or material in which one or more characteristics do not
   conform to requirements. Includes failures, discrepancies, defects,
   malfunctions and problems. Nonflight Like Hardware - Hardware which,
   although similar to flight equipment, does not contain parts,
   processes, or design which are identical or significantly similar* to
   those utilized in flight hardware. *Significantly similar is defined as
   commonality between parts, processes, or design such that the
   differences have no impact on the final performance of the equipment
   (e.g., solder, SN60 vs. SN63, has no difference to eventual equipment
   performance). On-orbit Anomaly - An on-orbit anomaly may be detected
   during on-orbit International Space Station stage operations.
   Overstress - A value of any stress parameter in excess of the upper or
   lower limit of the normal working range or in excess of rated value.
   Payload - Any space equipment, flight hardware, or material designed to
   conduct either coherent sets of experiments (e.g., "Facility Class"
   instruments) or individual experiments and payload support equipment.
   Primary Structure  Provides carriage for the major structural loads of
   the element (e.g., Node, Lab, Truss, etc.) Prime Contractor - The
   organization under contract to NASA for the for design, manufacture,
   delivery, and integration of ISS contract end items. Problem  A
   nonconformance which is, or is suspected of being, a failure, an
   unsatisfactory condition, an unexplained anomaly, or an overstress
   occurring during or subsequent to production acceptance testing or
   qualification testing (i.e. after manufacturing or development).
   Problem Reporting and Corrective Action (PRACA) - A management system
   for identifying, reporting, analyzing for cause, remedying, and
   preventing recurrence of problems. Problem Review Board - A problem
   review board is an existing board or panel (e.g., Material Review
   Board, Avionics and Software Control Board, Vehicle Systems Integration
   Panel, Space Station Program Control Board) which exercises approval
   authority to close a problem report depending on the level of the
   problem. Qualification Hardware - Hardware (that includes flight-like
   hardware) manufactured for the express purpose of undergoing
   qualification testing. Qualification Test - Those tests conducted as a
   part of the certification program to demonstrate that design and
   performance requirements can be realized under specified conditions.
   Recurrence Control - Action taken to prevent repetition of a
   nonconformance. This action may involve one or more of the following:
   a) Design change b) Manufacturing method/ procedure/ process change c)
   Facility/ test equipment change d) Test, inspection or operating
   procedure change e) Training or certification of personnel f)
   Maintenance procedure change g) Limit time or cycle of component B-3
   SSP 30223 h) Transportation, handling or shipping change i) Software
   change or firmware change Responsible Organization  The Hardware
   Developer, Payload Developer, or the organization responsible for the
   sustaining engineering (SE) of the hardware. Root Cause - The
   underlying reason for, or cause of, one or more nonconformances or
   deficiencies identified through investigations and studies which, when
   corrected, will prevent or reduce the recurrence of the realized or
   potential nonconformance(s) deficiency(ies). Safety Critical GSE  GSE
   necessary to support the program, the failure of which could cause loss
   of vehicle system or loss of personnel capability. In addition, GSE
   used in direct contact with hypergolic, cryogenic, explosive,
   flammable, toxic, corrosive, or harmful material or fluids, equipment
   using ordinance devices, or devices used for ordinance checkout,
   equipment using high internal pressure, high electrical energy, high
   flow volume, high temperature or radiant energy, equipment with
   high-speed dynamic components in its operation, and hoisting equipment,
   are considered safety critical. This definition also includes
   electrical equipment that operate in areas where flammable gases and/or
   vapors may be present, or where electrical equipment is utilized for
   control of safety critical GSE. This also includes personnel rescue
   equipment. Severity  To be provided System Problem Resolution Team  A
   defined group whose purpose is to streamline the process of managing
   PRACA reportable problem dispositions by integrating NASA/ISS Prime
   Contractor/IP/P authority into a single entity capable of providing the
   final disposition of a reportable problem in an effective and timely
   manner. Unsatisfactory Condition  Any nonconformance for which
   engineering resolution is required and which requires recurrence
   control beyond the specific article under question. Included in this
   definition are: 1. Conditions which cannot be corrected to the
   specified configuration using standard repair procedures; or 2. An
   event which could lead to a failed condition but does not affect the
   function of the article such as contamination, corrosion, workmanship,
   process escape, etc. Unexplained Anomaly  An anomaly that cannot be
   repeated (phantom or ghost) or for which a cause cannot be determined.
   B-4
