http://www.training.cahwnet.gov/certprgm/default.asp


                    Welcome to California California Home





                          Training Center Home
                          Contact us
                          Overview
                          Registration Information
                          Training Schedule
                          Certificate Programs
                          HIPAA Training
                          Meta Tag Workshop
                          IT Managers Academy
                          Room Rental Policy
                          Nationwide PC Training
                          (LearningPASS Program)
                          DPA - TCID Training
                          What's New
                          HHSDC Home Page



   HHSDC Training Center



    __________ search
           (*)   My CA


   Certificate Programs


                       [certificate.gif]
                                            [cert.gif]

   The HHSDC Training Center is now offering the following certificate
   programs.

   Click on each program title below for a detailed description of the
   program.
   Software Project Management Certificate Program

   The program consists of eight modules covering the essential skills and
   knowledge needed to manage successfully large software development and
   other information technology projects. This program is designed for
   managers and lead analysts who will be participating in software
   development or other IT projects as project managers or leads.
   Information Architect Certificate Program

   This program consists of seven training classes that will teach you to
   understand the core competencies of your business, and to model and
   test business requirements using a structured approach.
   Client/Server System Architect Certificate Program

   This program consists of five training classes that will teach you to
   understand the core competencies of your business, and to model and
   test business requirements using an object-oriented approach
   OS/390 Enterprise Developer Certificate Program

   This program consists of eight training classes that will teach your
   business experts and novice programmers to become skilled technical
   developers and to understand the specifics ofcoding, tuning and
   maintaining high-quality COBOL-based OS/390 computer applications. The
   program will teach a non-technical businessperson how to become a
   developer of enterprise-level computer systems and how to optimize
   those systems to run in an OS/390 environment.
   PC Support Certificate Program

   This program consists of three intense, hands-on training courses that
   will provide you with in-depth knowledge, skills, and tools to perform
   hardware and software PC support in your office.
   How to Earn a Certificate

   For the Information Architect, Client/Server System Architect, OS/390
   Enterprise Developer, and PC Support Programs, enroll in and complete
   all courses listed for the program of your choice. The courses in each
   program are offered at various dates throughout the year. Simply choose
   the individual course dates most convenient to you. It is highly
   recommended that you attend the courses in the order listed.

   For the Software Project Management Certificate Program, enrollment
   requires an executive nomination and completion of a special
   application form obtained from the HHSDC Training Center. If approved
   for participation, you will be enrolled in all modules of this program.

   To obtain your program certificate, while you are on-site attending the
   final course in your program notify the HHSDC Training Office that you
   are about to complete the program. A special certificate will be
   prepared and awarded to you upon completion of the final class.

   These programs are retroactive for any past attendance. If you have
   attended any of these courses in the past they will count towards
   earning the certificate.

   All courses in the four technical programs may also be taken as
   stand-alone classes. Some prerequisites apply. The Software Project
   Management modules are not available for stand-alone enrollment.
   Tuition Discount

   Your organization will be charged the standard tuition as you complete
   each course. However, completion of any of the above four technical
   programs within the following time periods entitles you to a 10%
   discount off the total standard tuition. The total discount for all
   classes in your program will be applied in the final class. The
   discounts are available to those who began the programs after the dates
   shown. The Software Project Management Certificate Program is not
   eligible for a discount.


                              Completion period
                                for discount

                             (Period begins when
                            you take first class)

   Discount available to those who began program after
   Information Architect

   18 months

   March 1, 2000
   Client/Server System Architect

   18 months

   March 1, 2000
   OS/390 Enterprise Developer

   18 months

   July 1, 2000
   PC Support

   12 months

   July 1, 2000
   Software Project Management

   N/A

   N/A

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
