http://srb-swlw.larc.nasa.gov/Journal/gewex.html

   A Global Long-Term Data Set of Shortwave and Longwave Surface Radiation
                                   Budget

                        W.L. Darnell and W.F. Staylor
                        NASA Langley Research Center
                          Hampton, Virginia, U.S.A.

                  S.K. Gupta, N.A. Ritchey and A.C. Wilber
                     Lockheed Engineering & Sciences Co.
                          Hampton, Virginia, U.S.A.

   A new global long-term surface radiation budget (SRB) data set
   consisting of monthly averages of shortwave (SW) and longwave (LW)
   radiative fluxes is now available at the NASA Langley Research Center.
   Meteorological data and cloud parameters available from the
   International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project (ISCCP) C1 data were
   used in the computation of the SRB. ISCCP C1 data are produced globally
   on a 2.5-degree equal-area grid (Rossow and Schiffer, 1991). Surface
   albedos for snow/ice-free land areas used in this data set were derived
   from the clear-sky planetary albedos obtained from the Earth Radiation
   Budget Experiment (ERBE). This 96-month data set includes the
   initialization and validation of general circulation models of the
   atmosphere and oceans, and in the studies of surface processes.

   The flux algorithms used for producing this data set were developed and
   validated during the last decade. The SW algorithm known as the
   "Staylor algorithm" is one of two SW algorithms which were considered
   apropriate for global data processing by the World Climate Research
   Programme (WCRP) GEWEX Surface Radiation Budget (SRB) Project and was
   subjected to extensive validation. The Staylor algorithm was found to
   be insensitive to ISCCP calibration errors and was selected by the
   GEWEX/SRB Project as "quality control" SW algorithm. It will be used
   for checking the performance of the "Pinker algorithm" in the
   production of long-term SW data sets. The LW fluxes in the data set
   described in this note were produced with the "Gupta algorithm" , which
   has been selected by the GEWEX/SRB Project for producing corresponding
   LW fluxes for the WCRP.

   The SW fluxes generally meet the same accuracy levels and regional
   limitations as the 46-month SRB data set described by Whitlock et al.
   (1995). Values of LW fluxes were generally found to be within 25 W/m2
   of the surface measurements obtained from the Global Energy Balance
   Archive (GEBA) and the Baseline Surface Radiation Network (BSRN).
   Longwave flux errors larger than 25 W/m2 were encounteed for a very few
   regions where ISCCP estimates of surface temperature and water vapor
   have large uncertainties, such as river and mountain valleys during
   winter.

   Figure 1 (on page 1) shows the geographical distribution of 8-year
   averages of downward SW (insolation) and downward LW fluxes for the
   months of January and July. The insolation distribution for both
   seasons is primarily zonal, but is modulated by the distribution of
   clouds. The maxima follow the sun from the southern hemisphere (SH) in
   January to the northern hemisphere (NH) in July. The highest values for
   January occur over Antarctica and the subtropical regions of the SH,
   while for July, they occur over the Arctic, Greenland, and subtropical
   regions of the NH. The maxima for downward LW flux (DLF) for both
   seasons occur over broad regions in the tropics with a gradual decrease
   toward the poles. The maxima of DLF move from south of the equator in
   January to north of the equator in July, but follow the sun weakly when
   compared to the movement of insolation maxima. The highest values occur
   over the subtropical deserts; over Australia in January and over the
   Afro-Asian deserts in July.

   Figure 2 shows the time-series of monthly averages of downward and net
   SW and LW fluxes for ISCCP region number 5275 (lat. index 51, long.
   index 85) which is bounded approximately by 35.ON and 37.5N latitude,
   and 96.2 W and 99.3W longitude. Results for this region were chosen for
   illustration as they may be of interest to the radiation/climate
   science community because of the location of the U.S. Department of
   Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Clouds and Radiation
   Testbed (CART) site in Oklahoma within the chosen ISCCP region. Results
   for this and other surrounding ISCCP regions may also be of interest to
   the scientists engaged in surface process studies under GCIP. As shown
   in Figure 3 a total of 39 ISCCP regions cover the entire GCIP region. A
   climatology of SRB for the entire GCIP region can be readily extracted
   from this data set.

   The data set contains 96 monthly files, one for each month from July
   1983 to June 1991. Each file contains monthly average values of the
   following 7 parameters for each ISCCP region: SWCS - clear-sky downward
   SW flux (insolation), SWDWN - total-sky downward SW flux, SWNET -
   total-sky net SW flux (absorbed), LWCS - clear-sky downward LW flux,
   LWDWN - total-sky net LW flux, and CP - ISCCP-derived cloud cover
   (percent).

   In addition, there is a location identification file which contains
   ISCCP region numbers (1-6596), and corresponding latitude and longitude
   indices. File descriptions are given in the "README" file. Also given
   is a set of formulas which can be used to derive other SRB parameters
   such as surface albedo, cloud radiative forcing and total flux
   parameters. The data set can be obtained either by FTP from
   cloud.larc.nasa.gov (128.155.17.41) or on an IBM PC-compatible CD-ROM.
   Requests for the CD-ROM may be sent to: Dr. Charles H. Whitlock, Mail
   Stop 420, NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, VA 23681-0001, U.S.A.,
   Tel.: 804/864-5675; Fax: 804/864-7996; E-mail:
   c.h.whitlock@larc.nasa.gov or whitlock@srb1. larc.nasa.gov
