http://www.oklahoma.feb.gov/2002HazardPolicy.html

   [image002.gif]

                                Emergency Dismissal or Closure Procedures

                                       Clean Air Alert Policy and

                                Policy for Any Possible Work Disruptions

                                For Federal Agencies in the Oklahoma Area

                                                 FY 2002

         Developed in accordance with Office of Personnel Guidelines

                           OPM Director’s Letter

                Emergency Dismissal Policy for Washington, DC


   Introduction

   Implementation

   Sample Telecommuting Agreement


                                INTRODUCTION


   Emergency situations occasionally arise which are beyond the control of
   management or employees.  These situations may prevent the opening of
   federal offices, prevent employees from getting to work, or create the
   necessity to dismiss employees early in certain areas.  The following
   guidelines apply to situations that prevent significant numbers of
   employees in Oklahoma from reporting for work on time or which require
   agencies to close all or part of their activities, including adverse
   weather conditions (snow emergencies, severe icing conditions, floods,
   and tornadoes) and other disruptions of Government operations.

   It is important for all federal agencies affected by the same emergency
   conditions to try to coordinate, to the maximum extent possible, their
   plans for the release or excusal of their employees, as well as
   appropriate leave policies.  This coordinated effort promotes equitable
   treatment of employees, avoids confusion, and lessens traffic
   congestion and hazards.

   The following guidelines apply to situations that prevent significant
   numbers of employees in the area from reporting for work on time or
   which require agencies to close all or part of their activities,
   including adverse weather conditions (snow emergencies, severe icing
   conditions, floods, earthquakes, and tornadoes), air pollution,
   disruption of power and/or water, and other emergency situations.

   Facilities outside the area may prefer to develop their own plans,
   since they are subject to different emergency and traffic conditions.

   The purpose of this Emergency Dismissal or Closure Procedure is to
   coordinate plans for the release or excusal of employees from federal
   offices and activities due to snow, ice accumulations, flooding or
   tornadoes.  The telephone notification procedures outlined may also be
   used for other types of announcements affecting federal employees (such
   as extra Christmas holiday leave granted by Presidential Order).  In
   consideration of environmental issues, this plan will also serve as a
   notification procedure for “Clean Air Alert” days.

   As in the past, the attached procedures are based on the principle that
   the business of the Federal Government is vital to serving the public
   everywhere.  No provision of these guidelines may be applied in
   contravention of contractual agreements; agency instructions or
   guidelines; Comptroller General rulings; or other pertinent controlling
   policies, authorities and instructions governing the granting of annual
   leave or authorization of excused absence without charge to leave
   during emergency situations.  Application of this guidance must be
   consistent with the provisions of applicable collective bargaining
   agreements or other controlling policies, authorities, and
   instructions.  The purpose of this policy is to provide information
   when an emergency situation arises.  Agencies are encouraged to follow
   these procedures.  However, agencies continue to have discretionary
   authority to grant a reasonable amount of excused absence for
   individual hardships or circumstances unique to an employee. For
   example, factors such as distance, availability of transportation, or
   available alternatives to childcare or eldercare may be considered.

                               IMPLEMENTATION


   Agencies' Responsibilities

   At least annually, agencies should provide written procedures for
   emergency dismissal or closure to employees. The notice should tell
   employees how they will be notified and include the text of the media
   announcements to be used and a detailed explanation of their meaning.
   The notice also should explain that if an "unscheduled leave" policy is
   announced, employees must contact their agencies to request to use
   annual leave, leave without pay, and/or previously earned compensatory
   time off or credit hours.

   At least annually, agencies should identify emergency personnel and
   notify them in writing that they are designated as "emergency
   employees." The term "emergency employee" is used to designate those
   employees who must report for work in emergency situations. The notice
   should include the requirement that "emergency employees" report for,
   or remain at work in emergency situations and an explanation that
   dismissal or closure announcements do not apply to them unless they are
   instructed otherwise. Agencies must be careful to designate which
   employees are "emergency employees" for the purpose of possible work
   disruptions and which employees are "emergency employees" for the
   purpose of adverse weather conditions and other emergency situations.
   (Note: Employees designated as "emergency employees" for the purpose of
   possible work disruptions typically will include those on the agency's
   "business recovery team" or "day 1 team.") If an agency determines that
   a situation requires employees not designated as "emergency employees"
   to report for, or remain at work during an emergency, the agency should
   establish a procedure for notifying them individually.

   Agencies are responsible for determining closure, dismissal, and leave
   policies for employees on shift work and alternative work schedules
   (i.e., flexible or compressed work schedules) and for informing
   employees of these policies.

   Agencies are responsible for determining closure, dismissal, and leave
   policies for employees on shift work and alternative work schedules
   (i.e., flexible or compressed work schedules) and for informing
   employees of these policies.  Telecommuting is an option for agencies
   where the nature of work is conducive to telecommuting.  Some agencies
   feel more comfortable to have employees sign an agreement for this kind
   of arrangement.  A sample agreement is provided by clicking here.

   Emergencies Before the Workday Begins:  According to OPM regulations on
   leave, agencies may excuse an employee without loss of pay or charge to
   leave (i.e., grant a reasonable amount of excused absence) if the
   employee is unavoidably delayed in arriving for work.  Factors such as
   distance, availability of transportation, the need to make alternative
   child care arrangements, and the success of other employees in similar
   situations should be considered in determining the amount of excused
   absence to grant. However, employees have no entitlement to excused
   absence.  Agencies must notify employees of the procedures to be
   followed in this situation.

   Emergencies During Normal Work Hours:  When an event causes agencies to
   close during the work day, agencies may excuse an employee without loss
   of pay or charge to leave (i.e., grant a reasonable amount of excused
   absence) to avoid hardships, e.g., when younger children are released
   from school/child care centers earlier than the announced dismissal
   time and no alternative forms of child care are available. However,
   employees have no entitlement to excused absence.  Agencies must notify
   employees of the procedures to be followed in these situations.

   Hazardous Weather

   National Weather Service The National Weather Service (NWS) will advise
   the Federal Executive Board’s (FEB) Chairperson and Executive Director
   of hazardous weather situations.  This notification is usually made
   when warnings of snow or accumulations of ice have been issued.  These
   forecasts or reports of snow and/or ice storm conditions are usually
   the basis for which telephone notification procedure becomes
   operational.

   After consultation with the NWS, the FEB Executive Director will advise
   the affected Federal establishments when conditions indicate an early
   dismissal situation.

   When hazardous conditions develop during the night or before normal
   duty hours, the NWS will contact the FEB Executive Director (or
   designated alternate) to advise him/her of the situation.  The
   Executive Director or designated alternate will make contact with
   agency heads as listed, providing information regarding weather
   conditions; as well as providing this information on the Voice Mail
   recording of the FEB Office number, (405) 231-4167.

   [image005.gif]

   Employees should be advised of the notification procedures within their
   employing agency.  Radio and/or television announcements of agency
   closings do not substitute for personal communications with agency
   officials.  Agency heads or a designee are asked to notify the FEB
   Office of closings.  For security purposes, agencies located in
   GSA-controlled property are asked to notify the GSA Building Manager
   when offices will not be occupied during normal business hours.

   Clean Air Alert

   [image007.gif]

   The Association of Central Oklahoma Governments (ACOG) or Department of
   Environmental Quality will fax “Clean Air Alert” designations to the
   FEB Office.  This notification will occur when forecasted weather
   conditions indicate a risk of violating the Environmental Protection
   Agency’s standard of air pollution in the Oklahoma City, Tulsa and
   Lawton areas. Using advanced computerized information, a team of
   meteorologists, health department professionals and regional government
   representatives monitors Central Oklahoma weather conditions and
   distributes alert day notices the day before weather conditions are
   expected to aggravate pollution levels.   Clean Air Alerts will be
   faxed from the FEB office to agencies in the form of a one-page flyer
   that can be duplicated and attached to exit doors for ALL employees to
   see.  On “Alert Days” citizens are encouraged to reduce carbon monoxide
   or ozone levels by carpooling or riding the bus ($.25 on Clean Air
   Alert days), if possible.  Public transportation route information for
   Oklahoma City is provided at http://www.okc-cityhall.org/ for ease of
   distribution.  Employees in Tulsa and other metropolitan areas will
   need to contact your local Metro Transit Authority to obtain route
   information.

   All other Emergencies

   [image009.gif]

   In the event of any other situations, the Federal Executive Board will
   coordinate emergency and other interagency actions, including
   communications to ensure federal agencies receive updated information
   regarding initiatives and events that affect the federal community.
   The FEB will maintain a list of emergency contacts within the federal
   community (as well as alternates) with off-duty contact information for
   use in the event of other emergencies.  This information will not be
   published or distributed; however, will be made available to
   ‘responding’ federal agencies if determined appropriate in the event of
   a disaster.

   Back to top

              Back to FEB page
