http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1485/0.pdf

   United States Court of Appeals United States Court of Appeals FOR THE
   DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT No. 00-5213 September Term, 1999 98cv01233
   Filed On: June 19, 2000 [523996] State of New York, et al., Appellees
   v. Microsoft Corporation, Appellant BEFORE: Edwards, Chief Judge;
   Williams, Ginsburg, Sentelle, Randolph, Rogers, and Tatel, Circuit
   Judges O R D E R Upon consideration of the motion for leave to submit
   an overlength motion for stay pending appeal, the lodged motion for
   stay, the motion for summary dismissal of Microsoft's motion for leave
   to file a motion for stay pending appeal on the ground that it is
   premature, or to defer consideration pending a determination as to
   jurisdiction, the opposition thereto, and the reply, it is ORDERED that
   the motion for summary dismissal of Microsoft's motion for leave to
   file a motion for stay pending appeal on the ground that it is
   premature, or to defer consideration pending a determination as to
   jurisdiction, is hereby denied. It is FURTHER ORDERED that the motion
   for leave to submit an overlength motion for stay be granted. The Clerk
   is directed to file the lodged motion for stay. We caution the parties
   that all future filings must comply with the page and/or word limits
   established in the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and this
   court's rules, except as specifically authorized by order of the court.
   It is FURTHER ORDERED, on the court's own motion, that the joint
   response to the motion for stay not exceed 39 pages, and that the
   reply, if any, not exceed 10 pages. It is FURTHER ORDERED, on the
   court's own motion, that the joint response be filed within 10 days of
   the date of this order, and that the reply, if any, be filed within 7
   days thereafter. It is United States Court of Appeals United States
   Court of Appeals FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT No. 00-5213
   September Term, 1999 FURTHER ORDERED, on the court's own motion, that
   the parties file and serve these and all future pleadings by hand. It
   is FURTHER ORDERED that, in the event that the district court certifies
   the appeal under 15 U.S.C. ยง 29, this briefing schedule will be
   automatically suspended. If the Supreme Court accepts jurisdiction, the
   schedule will be moot; if the Supreme Court remands the case to this
   court, the schedule shall resume and the intervening period shall not
   count toward the running of the stated deadlines. Per Curiam FOR THE
   COURT: Mark J. Langer, Clerk
