http://www.export.gov/safeharbor/

   [USEMAP:safeharbor1.gif]

   [USEMAP:shnav.jpg]

   Welcome to the Safe Harbor

                             Find out how to join the safe harbor

   The European Commission’s Directive on Data Protection went into effect
   in October,1998, and would prohibit the transfer of personal data to
   non-European Union nations that do not meet the European “adequacy”
   standard for privacy protection. While the United States and the
   European Union share the goal of enhancing privacy protection for their
   citizens, the United States takes a different approach to privacy from
   that taken by the European Union. The United States uses a sectoral
   approach that relies on a mix of legislation, regulation, and self
   regulation. The European Union, however, relies on comprehensive
   legislation that, for example, requires creation of government data
   protection agencies, registration of data bases with those agencies,
   and in some instances prior approval before personal data processing
   may begin. As a result of these different privacy approaches, the
   Directive could have significantly hampered the ability of U.S.
   companies to engage in many trans-Atlantic transactions.

   In order to bridge these different privacy approaches and provide a
   streamlined means for U.S. organizations to comply with the Directive,
   the U.S. Department of Commerce in consultation with the European
   Commission developed a "safe harbor" framework. The safe harbor —
   approved by the EU in July of 2000 — is an important way for U.S.
   companies to avoid experiencing interruptions in their business
   dealings with the EU or facing prosecution by European authorities
   under European privacy laws. Certifying to the safe harbor will assure
   that EU organizations know that your company provides “adequate”
   privacy protection, as defined by the Directive.

   This website provides the information an organization should need to
   evaluate, and then join, the safe harbor. The checklist above should
   guide you through the process.
