http://www.usfa.fema.gov/grants/


   FEMA Seal
   An official web site of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRE Act Grants
   Navigation Menu Link Recipients
   Navigation Menu Link Requests
   Navigation Menu Link Application Package
   Navigation Menu Link Special Prevention Grants
   Navigation Menu Link Federal Register
   Navigation Menu Link Legislation
   Navigation Menu Link Fact Sheet
   Navigation Menu Link FAQs
   Navigation Menu Link Press Releases
   Navigation Menu Link Developing/Writing Proposals

   Federal Assistance

                             USFA Grants Office
                               (866) 274-0960
                               (301) 447-1608
                             FAX (866) 274-0942

   Visit the FirstGov Web Site, one-stop access to all online U.S. Federal
                            Government resources.

      USFA Grants Banner Image

   What's New Line




     FY 02 Applicant Workshop Schedule
     EMMITSBURG, Md. -- January 23 - These local workshops will provide
     information on the application process and general assistance in
     writing a competitive narrative for a grant proposal.




     FY 02 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Update
     USFA is working on details for a larger FY02 Assistance to Firefighters
     Grant Program. Funding has now been increased to a total of $360
     million.




     Special Fire Prevention Grants
     A summary of the application and evaluation processes and award
     recipients for these special fire prevention grants authorized under
     the Fire Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act.




     Report on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program for Fiscal Year
     2001
     This 4-page report contains a summary of the legislative history,
     establishment of the grant program, application and evaluation process,
     grant awards, and FY 2001 closeout activities.




     Information on other awards may be found under Press Releases.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]
                  FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
