http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/spotlight.html

   Technology Transfer Program Technology Spotlight Header
   Technology Spotlight allows the Technology Transfer Department the
   opportunity to highlight the newest and most innovative technologies
   being developed at Marshall Space Flight Center.

   Composite-Material Pipes for Corrosive and Cryogenic Liquids

   A flexible design concept and an associated method of fabrication have
   been conceived as means to satisfy growing demands for lightweight
   composite-material pipes for corrosive and cryogenic liquids. The
   design concept and method can be applied to produce piping systems
   capable of handling such diverse liquids as cryogenic oxygen, hydrogen
   peroxide, strong acids, and strong bases. The piping systems can be
   complex; for example, they can include manifolds and/or pipes with
   multiple bends.

   Fabrication begins with the molding and/or machining structural
   segments in basic shapes that can be assembled into a mandrel that
   defines the geometry of a complex piping system. The basic shapes can
   include elbows, T junctions, Y junctions, and flanges.

   Once the shapes have been joined to form a mandrel, various
   composite-material layers are deposited on the mandrel to form the
   piping. The first layer to be deposited on the mandrel is a liner. The
   liner can be a single thin layer of a metal, a metal layer comprising
   thin sublayers of different metals, or a polymer, for example.

   Multiple layers of a composite material are placed on the liner and
   cured. The mandrel material is then removed from inside, leaving a
   thin-walled composite tube structure. Next, the structure is covered by
   a thermal-insulation layer. If the liquid to be contained is cryogenic,
   then a suitable insulating material could be low-density polyurethane
   foam; if the liquid to be contained is hot, then a better insulating
   material would be a phenolic fire-resistant foam.

   The foam can be sprayed and later machined; alternatively, premachined
   foam segments can be assembled onto the piping. If needed, small
   channels can be machined in the foam layer to accommodate a cooling or
   heating manifold. The foam layer is covered with an outer
   composite-material skin. Finally, the structure is heated to cure the
   resin in the skin.

                    Back to Technology Transfer Home Page
