http://www.va.gov/resdev/queri/sciiir6-992.htm

   R&D Home | Site Map | Contact Webmaster

   Health Services Research and Development Home Veterans Health
   Administration Department of Veterans Affairs

                                   NOTE: Still open, last updated 7/13/01.

   June 26, 1999



                     OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

          HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICE (HSR&D)

                  PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT: SPINAL CORD INJURY

                                  image 21




                       Investigator-Initiated Research

       Priorities in Spinal Cord Injury: Pressure Ulcer Prevention and
                                  Treatment


    1. Purpose. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is focusing major
       resources and energy
       to improve the quality of the health care it provides and to create
       improvements that are measurable, rapid and sustainable. With the
       inauguration of the Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QUERI)
       in early 1998, special emphasis has been placed on improving the
       quality of care in clinical areas that are prevalent in VA
       including chronic heart failure, ischemic heart disease, diabetes,
       substance abuse, stroke, mental health (depression, schizophrenia),
       spinal cord injuries, and HIV/AIDS. For each of these areas, QUERI
       participants identify gaps in science, practice and information
       systems, and also develop and evaluate methods for translating
       evidence of clinical effectiveness into practice. Additional
       information about QUERI is available on the VA web page at
       http://www.va.gov/resdev.
    2. Synopsis. This Program Announcement invites eligible VA
       investigators (see paragraph #7 in this solicitation) to propose
       Investigator-Initiated Research (IIR) projects that do at least one
       of the following:

    a. Evaluate the effectiveness of secondary prevention programs in
       identified SCI populations at risk for repeated episodes of
       pressure ulcers. At risk populations include: (i) individuals who
       have already had at least one pressure ulcer within one year after
       initial injury (Niazi, 1997; Salzberg, 1996), (ii) individuals with
       psychosocial risk factors such as depression or substance abuse
       (Anderson & Andberg, 1979), or (iii) risk factors unique to SCI,
       such as recurrent breakdown or multliple plastic surgery flap
       repairs (Yarkony & Heinemann, 1995).
    b. Evaluate the effectiveness of technologies, interventions, products
       and/or specific care management strategies for pressure ulcer
       prevention or treatment in veterans with SCI who either have
       pressure ulcers or are assessed to be at high risk of developing
       pressure ulcers. Technologies appropriate for study will have been
       developed within the past five years and there will be existing
       evidence of efficacy.

   Projects may not exceed four years or total costs of $750,000. HSR&D is
   especially interested in projects that can demonstrate results in a
   short time frame (within approximately 18 months) and deliver tangible
   products that may be used by decision-makers to promote best practices.
   Projects require an approved Letter of Intent (LOI) consistent with
   regular IIR policy (see paragraph #8 in this solicitation). Proposal
   due dates are November 1 and May 1, starting November 1, 1999, until
   further notice. These IIR projects comprise part of a broader,
   comprehensive and merit-approved strategic plan for spinal cord injury
   quality of care. Investigators interested in this area also should
   consider two research solicitations that cut across the QUERI
   conditions identified in paragraph one above. Specifically, HSR&D
   welcomes LOIs relevant to the implementation of clinical practice
   guidelines and patient centered care related to spinal cord injury and
   has issued announcements entitled "QUERI: Common Issues in
   Implementation of Clinical Practice Guidelines" and "QUERI:
   Patient-Centered Outcomes," both available on the VA web page at
   http://www.va.gov/resdev/hsr-sols.htm.

   3. Background. Pressure ulcers compromise the health status and quality
   of life of many persons with spinal cord injury. Much information has
   been collected regarding best practices for pressure ulcer treatment,
   but gaps in knowledge and practice persist. In 1968 researchers found
   that 50% of veterans with tetraplegia and 30% of individuals with
   paraplegia required hospitalization for treatment of pressure ulcers
   (Krouskop, 1983). Studies show little change in the prevalence or
   incidence of pressure ulcers among individuals with spinal cord injury
   during the past three decades. Epidemiological studies predict that
   36-50% of all persons with SCI who develop pressure ulcers will develop
   recurrent sores within the first year after initial healing (Niazi,
   1997; Salzberg, 1996). More than 50% of individuals with long-term SCI
   experience some tissue breakdown during their lifetime (Goldstein,
   1998). Treatments including long term hospitalizations, surgical
   procedures, wound care products, and equipment necessitated by pressure
   ulcers account for more than 6.5 billion dollars each year in the U.S.
   (CDC, 1990; NIDRR, 1997). Most important, pressure ulcers can threaten
   social role functioning, functional activities, and personal
   development for the person with SCI (Gordon, et al., 1982; Yarkony &
   Heinemann, 1995).

   Although it is generally accepted that prevention of pressure ulcers
   should be prioritized, most research is still devoted to treatment.
   Research continues to support interventions that target prevention
   using patient education, pressure reduction, hygiene, nutrition,
   environmental protection, and psychosocial support.

   Additional research is needed regarding the effectiveness of the
   interventions and strategies used to prevent and treat pressure ulcers.
   Research on effectiveness (related to either prevention or treatment)
   should target those interventions and strategies for which there is
   evidence of efficacy.

   4. Research Focus. Proposed studies should have a combined focus on 1)
   identifying patients with SCI who either have pressure ulcers or are at
   high risk for pressure ulcers and 2) investigating ways to prevent
   and/or reduce the incidence of pressure ulcers through the use of
   effective interventions or strategies. (AHCPR, 1992).

   Several existing technologies for pressure ulcer prevention,
   management, or healing for individuals with SCI have been developed in
   recent years. These technologies include but are not limited to:
   pressure-alternating wheelchair cushions, various derived growth
   factors, collagen preparations, devices to facilitate healing,
   prompting systems to remind patients and/or care providers to do
   pressure releases (e.g., Merbitz et al., 1985, Grip and Merbitz, 1986).
   Studies should evaluate the effectiveness of these or other
   technologies or strategies used for the prevention, management, or
   healing of pressure ulcers in individuals with SCI. The proposed
   effectiveness study should target the interventions, technologies,
   programs or strategies for which there is existing evidence of
   efficacy. Evidence of efficacy should be addressed in the proposal.
    5. Sample Research Issues. Examples of suitable research issues
       include:

    a. Research investigations evaluating efficacious technologies for
       preventing pressure ulcers in high risk SCI patients,
    b. Studies aimed at limiting negative effects of pressure ulcers on
       activities, participation, and quality of life in at-risk
       populations.
    c. Studies evaluating the effectiveness of consumer guides,
       educational materials, or other communication devices in reducing
       the incidence or prevalence of pressure ulcers in individuals with
       SCI.
    d. Studies of the effectiveness of care management systems/strategies
       to reduce the incidence and prevalence of pressure ulcers in SCI.
    e. Studies evaluating resource efficiencies related to the use of
       pressure ulcer management

       or healing interventions, particularly those interventions or
       strategies that reduce use of resources.

    f. Research assessing the effectiveness of telemedicine/telemanagement
       in the prevention and/or early management of pressure ulcers,
       particularly for veterans who live great distances from VA SCI
       centers.

    5. Research Methods. All HSR&D studies are expected to use a rigorous
       and efficient research design including methods that maximize the
       validity, reliability, generalizability, and usefulness of findings
       in real situations. While the research needs to be grounded in the
       realities of VA practice and address real world information needs,
       it also needs to have a clear theoretical framework, demonstrate
       familiarity with the pertinent literature, and employ a data
       collection and analysis strategy that will yield valid conclusions.
       The multidisciplinary nature of health services research needs to
       be evident in the formulation of the research questions. Study
       teams should generally include individuals with experience and
       expertise in clinical and non-clinical fields, including pertinent
       social scientists and research methodologists. The research design
       needs to maximize the eventual application of findings and
       conclusions. The study should be relevant to U.S. veterans and
       should add new knowledge based on an appropriate conceptual
       framework and appropriate research design and methods, including
       adequate controls and statistical power. Proposals should include
       appropriate spinal cord injury outcome measures such as
       impairments, morbidities, activity limitations (disability), social
       role participation, quality of life, satisfaction with care, and
       resource use (e.g. readmission, length of stay, institutional
       care). The outcomes to be assessed must also be clearly identified
       and justified in terms of their relevance to quality of care. The
       proposal should describe how these outcomes will be defined,
       measured, and evaluated.

   Each proposal is expected to specify the efficacy of the interventions
   and/or strategies being studied. Studying the effectiveness of the
   specific intervention and/or strategy should be justified in terms of
   what is already known. HSR&D is especially interested in projects that
   will result in the development of products within approximately 18
   months. The expected products to be developed upon completion of the
   study should be clearly explained in the proposal. Initial products of
   interest to HSR&D might include impact documents, factsheets,
   algorithms, patient brochures, or other tools that can be made
   available to decision-makers as part of routine clinical practice.

   7. Investigator Eligibility. The Principal Investigator must be at
   least a 5/8^ths VA employee at the applicant site. Co-investigators,
   consultants, and support staff may be non-VA employees. Any questions
   about eligibility may be referred to Ms. Caryn Cohen at 202-273-6812 or
   caryn.cohen@mail.va.gov.

   8. Letter of Intent. All applicants are required to submit a Letter of
   Intent (LOI) clearly designated "QUERI-Spinal Cord Injury" with
   reference to the specific attachment and content area. The LOI must not
   exceed three pages of text, exclusive of cover page (VA Form
   10-1313-13) and references. LOIs are accepted on a continuing basis and
   reviewed monthly. Applicants are advised to submit an LOI at least
   three months prior to intended proposal submission dates. The basic
   format for the LOI is described in "Health Services Research and
   Development Instructions for Preparing a Letter of Intent," dated
   October 1998 (available at R&D offices and on the VA research web page
   at http://www.va.gov/resdev). HSR&D will review LOIs for responsiveness
   to this announcement, pertinent qualifications and experience of the
   applicant, appropriate research focus, and adequacy of research
   methods. Applicants will be notified of the results of the LOI review
   within 4-8 weeks of receipt. Only applicants whose LOI is approved by
   HSR&D may submit a full proposal.

   9. Proposal Preparation and Submission. Proposals submitted in response
   to this announcement will be accepted for the receipt dates of November
   1 and May 1, starting with November 1999, and continuing until further
   notice. Proposals should be prepared in accordance with HSR&D’s
   "Instructions for Preparing Investigator-Initiated Research Proposals"
   (available at R&D offices and on the VA research home page at
   http://www.va.gov/resdev). Copies of both the LOI and the LOI approval
   letter must be included with submitted proposals.

   10. Proposal Review. Proposals received in response to this
   announcement will undergo peer review, along with other IIR projects,
   by the HSR&D Scientific Review and Evaluation Board (SREB). The review
   is rigorous and the standards are very high. Scientific merit, expected
   contribution to improving VA health services, and other factors are
   considered. Investigators are expected to describe their research plan
   completely. Proposals recommended for approval will be considered for
   funding by the Director, HSR&D.

   11. Project Funding. Studies submitted in response to this solicitation
   may not exceed four years or total costs of $750,000. Both short-term
   and long-term projects may be proposed, but HSR&D is especially
   interested in projects that demonstrate results in the shortest time
   possible and produce products that contribute to best practices. For
   projects that require more than two years, investigators are strongly
   encouraged to identify major milestones for which interim results and
   products can be reported and disseminated. In planning project budgets,
   applicants are reminded to adhere to R&D guidelines regarding allowable
   use of research funds.

   12. Coordination with QUERI. Principal Investigators will submit annual
   progress reports and other updates as requested by the Director, HSR&D,
   who will provide this information to the Spinal Cord Injury QUERI
   Coordinating Center. The Spinal Cord Injury QUERI Executive Committee
   is available to provide technical consultation to investigators.
   Contacting the Spinal Cord Injury QUERI is optional and is not a
   requirement of this solicitation. Investigators who would like
   assistance should send a one-page letter to Frances Weaver, Ph.D.,
   Acting Director, Midwest Center for Health Services and Policy Research
   (151H), VA Medical Center, P.O. Box 5000, Hines, IL, 60141. The letter
   should include the following information: name, address, and
   affiliation of the principal investigator, study title, type of
   assistance requested (e.g. statistical consultation, information on
   other relevant VA programs or resources, information on database
   availability, feedback on a draft proposal or LOI) and a brief overview
   of the project, especially those aspects related to the consultation
   request.

   13. Mailing Addresses. It is the investigator’s responsibility to
   confirm receipt of documents mailed in response to this solicitation.
   Letters of Intent (LOIs) should be submitted to:

                            HSR&D Service (124I)

                   QUERI: Investigator Initiated Research

                           810 Vermont Avenue, NW

                            Washington, DC 20420

   Proposals submitted under this initiative may be submitted by regular
   mail or Federal Express, via the ACOS for R&D and the Medical Center
   Director, with a letter of support signed by the Medical Center
   Director. The approved LOI and the approval letter must be included
   with the proposal when submitted. Submit proposals to:


                            HSR&D Service (124F)

                   QUERI: Investigator Initiated Research

                       Department of Veterans Affairs

                         1400 Eye Street, Suite 700

                            Washington, DC 20420

   14. Inquiries. For further information regarding this solicitation,
   contact Lynn McQueen, Dr.P.H., R.N., Associate Director for QUERI at
   202-273-8227 or by email at lynn.mcqueen@mail.va.gov.





   John R. Feussner, M.D.

   Chief Research and Development Officer


   Attachment

   References
    1. Agency for Health Care Policy and Research. Pressure Ulcers in
       Adults: Prediction and Prevention. AHCPR, 1992.
    2. Agency for Health Care Policy and Research. Treatment of Pressure
       Ulcers. AHCPR, 1994.
    3. Center for Disease Control. "First Colloquium on Preventing
       Secondary Disabilities among People with Spinal Cord Injuries".
       Atlanta, GA: CDC, 1990.
    4. Grip JC, Merbitz CT. Wheelchair-based mobile measurement of
       behavior for pressure sore prevention" Compu Methods Programs
       Biomed, 1986, 22(1):137-44.
    5. Krouskop, T. Noble, P., Garber, S., Spencer, W. "The Effectiveness
       of Preventive Management in Reducing the Occurrence of Pressure
       Sores". Journal of Rehabilitation R&D, 1983; 20(1); 74
    6. Merbitz CT, King RB, Bleiberg J, Grip JC. "Wheelchair push-ups:
       measuring pressure relief frequency. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1985;
       66(7):433-8.
    7. Niazi, ZBM, Salzberg CA, Byrne DW, Viehbeck M. "Recurrence of
       Initial Pressure Ulcers in Persons with Spinal Cord Injuries". Adv.
       Wound Care, 1997; 10(30):3842
    8. National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, US
       Department of Education. "National Institute on Disability and
       Rehabilitation Research: Notice of Proposed Funding. Priorities for
       Fiscal Years 1998-1999 for Certain Centers and Projects. Federal
       Register, 62, G6922-G6925. 1997.
    9. Salzberg CA, Byrne D, Cayten CG, van Niewerburgh P, Murphy JG,
       Viehbeck MA. "New Pressure Ulcer Risk Assessment Scale for
       Individuals with Spinal Cord Injury". American Journal of Physical
       Medicine Rehabilitation 1996; 75(2); 96
   10. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Methodology Team.
       "Results of Literature Search and Evidence Analysis". Preliminary
       Report prepared under a contract funded by Paralyzed Veterans of
       America, 1998.


   Last Updated : 6/30/01
