http://www.stennis.gov/military.html

   [civilmilitarylogo.gif]

                                                            STENNIS CENTER

                                                         Board of Trustees

                                                                   Mission

                                                                     Staff

                                                                  PROGRAMS

                                                            Civil-Military
                                                                Leadership

                                                        Congress to Campus

                                                          Emerging Leaders

                                                           Stennis Fellows

                                                                   Stennis
                                                          Student Congress

                                                         Southern Women in
                                                            Public Service

                                                           Truman Scholars

                                             USS STENNIS Leadership Awards

                                                           SENATOR STENNIS

                                                  John C Stennis Biography

                                                        The Stennis Legacy

                                                100th Birthday Celebration

                                                                ADDITIONAL
                                                               INFORMATION

                                                          Government Links

                                                     Policy Institutions &
                                                    Public Service Centers

                                                   Public Service Partners

                                                    Public Service Careers

   Improving Civil-Military Relations

   [Listen2.jpg] Not so long ago, a large number of those serving in the
   U.S. Congress had personal military experience to help them make
   decisions about defense policy. Today fewer and fewer incoming
   political leaders on Capitol Hill have direct experience and
   familiarity with the military.

   In response, the Stennis Center launched a comprehensive effort to
   enhance the understanding of Members of Congress and congressional
   staff regarding military life, values and culture. The initiative is
   also working to strengthen the relationship between military and
   civilian leaders. Civilian leaders in Congress need insight into
   military capabilities, limitations and challenges as seen by military
   leaders. By the same token, military leaders also need insight into the
   constitutional, political and diplomatic aspects of the defense policy
   setting process.

   "Providing for the Common Defense: Civil-Military Relations in the
   Twenty-first Century" is a year-and-a-half-long program designed
   specifically for the 57 new members of the 107th Congress. It includes
   at least a dozen separate components, ranging from three-hour
   roundtable discussions with outside experts to weeklong trips designed
   to connect Members of Congress with military personnel of various ranks
   from across the country. This initiative is bipartisan and bicameral.
   It is not aimed at any specific defense policy, program or issue, but
   instead focuses on the military in American society.

   The overall goal is to enable newly elected Members to gain
   understanding and insights that will help with the decisions they will
   make in exercising their constitutional responsibility to "provide for
   the common defense." Senior Members and staff of the defense-related
   committees of Congress will participate in various segments of the
   program.

   The Stennis Center is also working to build relationships and
   understanding between civilian and military leaders through various
   other initiatives.

     * A pilot program has begun for congressional staff members working
       for Members of Congress who are not assigned to one of the
       committees or subcommittees directly focused on national defense.
     * A program was initiated to provide prospective commanding officers
       of aircraft carriers and big deck amphibious assault ships a focus
       on how they can effectively reach out to civilian leaders through
       their command. The Stennis Center conducted programs for
       prospective commanding officers of the USS Abraham Lincoln, USS
       Enterprise, USS Dwight D. Eisenhower, USS Ronald Reagan and USS
       Essex in 2000. This program includes special emphasis on
       interaction with Members of Congress and congressional staff.
     * Trips are coordinated to aircraft carriers at sea where Members of
       Congress, congressional staff and other civilian leaders have an
       opportunity to learn about the mission and capabilities of the Navy
       and to gain insight into the military life, values and culture.
     * A leadership awards program has been established on two aircraft
       carriers - the USS John C. Stennis and the USS Enterprise. The
       program is designed to recognize and reward outstanding leaders on
       board and to bring those leaders into contact with civilian
       leaders, including Members of Congress and congressional staff.
       Award winners from both the Stennis and the Enterprise are brought
       to Washington, D.C. where they are honored in the U.S. Capitol.
       While providing a boost to morale on the ships, the program also
       gives civilian leaders an opportunity to recognize the commitment
       to duty exemplified by the award winners who are selected across
       the ranks.

   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
