http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/factsheet/baldfaqs.htm

   Fact Sheets from NIST

   ""

                 Frequently Asked Questions and Answers about the
                      Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award

                           Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award fact sheet

      Who was Malcolm Baldrige?
      Malcolm Baldrige was Secretary of Commerce from 1981 until his death in
      a rodeo accident in July 1987. Baldrige was a proponent of quality
      management as a key to this country’s prosperity and long-term
      strength. He took a personal interest in the qual-ity improvement act
      that was eventually named after him and helped draft one of the early
      versions. In recognition of his contributions, Congress named the award
      in his honor.

      What is the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award?
      The Baldrige Award is given by the President of the United States to
      businesses—manufacturing and service, small and large—and to education
      and health care organizations that apply and are judged to be
      outstanding in seven areas: leadership, strategic planning, customer
      and market focus, information and analysis, human resource focus,
      process management, and business results.

      Congress established the award program in 1987 to recognize U.S.
      organizations for their achievements in quality and performance and to
      raise awareness about the importance of quality and performance
      excellence as a competitive edge. The award is not given for specific
      products or services. Three awards may be given annually in each of
      these categories: manufacturing, service, small business, and, starting
      in 1999, education and health care.

      While the Baldrige Award and the Baldrige recipients are the very
      visible centerpiece of the U.S. quality movement, a broader national
      quality program has evolved around the award and its criteria. A
      report, Building on Baldrige: American Quality for the 21st Century, by
      the private Council on Competitiveness, said, “More than any other
      program, the Baldrige Quality Award is responsible for making quality a
      national priority and disseminating best practices across the United
      States.”

      The U.S. Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and
      Technology (NIST) manages the Baldrige National Quality Program in
      close cooperation with the private sector.

      Why was the award established?
      In the early and mid-1980s, many industry and government leaders saw
      that a renewed emphasis on quality was no longer an option for American
      com-panies but a necessity for doing business in an ever expanding, and
      more demanding, competitive world market. But many American businesses
      either did not believe quality mattered for them or did not know where
      to begin. The Baldrige Award was envisioned as a standard of excellence
      that would help U.S. organizations achieve world-class quality.

      How is the Baldrige Award achieving its goals?
      The criteria for the Baldrige Award have played a major role in
      achieving the goals established by Congress. They now are accepted
      widely, not only in the United States but also around the world, as the
      standard for performance excellence. The criteria are designed to help
      organizations enhance their competitiveness by focusing on two goals:
      delivering ever improving value to customers and improving overall
      organizational performance.

      The award program has proven to be a remarkably successful government
      and private-sector team effort. The annual government investment of
      about $5 million is leveraged by a contribution of over $100 million
      from private-sector and state and local organizations, including $10
      million raised by private industry to help launch the program and the
      time and efforts of hundreds of largely private-sector volunteers.

      The cooperative nature of this joint government/ private-sector team is
      perhaps best captured by the award’s Board of Examiners. Each year,
      more than 300 experts from industry, educational institutions,
      governments at all levels, and non-profit organizations volunteer many
      hours reviewing applications for the award, conducting site visits, and
      providing each applicant with an extensive feedback report citing
      strengths and opportunities to improve. In addition, board members have
      given thousands of presentations on quality management, performance
      improvement, and the Baldrige Award.

      The Baldrige Award winners also have taken seriously their charge to be
      quality advocates. Their efforts to educate and inform other companies
      and organizations on the benefits of using the Baldrige Award framework
      and criteria have far exceeded expectations. To date, the recipients
      have given more than 30,000 presentations reaching thousands of
      organizations.

      What are the Baldrige criteria?
      The Baldrige performance excellence criteria are a framework that any
      organization can use to improve overall performance. Seven categories
      make up the award criteria:

      Leadership—Examines how senior executives guide the organization and
      how the organization addresses its responsibilities to the public and
      practices good citizenship.

      Strategic planning—Examines how the organization sets strategic
      directions and how it determines key action plans.

      Customer and market focus—Examines how the organization determines
      requirements and expectations of customers and markets.

      Information and analysis—Examines the management, effective use, and
      analysis of data and information to support key organization processes
      and the organization’s performance management system.

      Human resource focus—Examines how the organization enables its
      workforce to develop its full potential and how the workforce is
      aligned with the organization’s objectives.

      Process management—Examines aspects of how key production/delivery and
      support processes are designed, managed, and improved.

      Business results—Examines the organization’s performance and
      improvement in its key business areas: customer satisfaction, financial
      and marketplace performance, human resources, supplier and partner
      performance, and operational performance. The category also examines
      how the organization performs relative to competitors.

      The criteria are used by thousands of organizations of all kinds for
      self-assessment and training and as a tool to develop performance and
      business processes. Almost 2 million copies have been distributed since
      the first edition in 1988, and heavy reproduction and electronic access
      multiply that number many times.

      For many organizations, using the criteria results in better employee
      relations, higher productivity, greater customer satisfaction,
      increased market share, and improved profitability. According to a
      report by the Conference Board, a business membership organization, “A
      majority of large U.S. firms have used the criteria of the Malcolm
      Baldrige National Quality Award for self-improvement, and the evidence
      suggests a long-term link between use of the Baldrige criteria and
      improved business performance.”

      Which organizations have received the award?
        * 2001—Clarke American Checks, Incorporated, Pal’s Sudden Service,
          Chugach School District, Pearl River School District, University of
          Wisconsin-Stout
        * 2000—Dana Corp.-Spicer Driveshaft Division, KARLEE Company, Inc.,
          Operations Management International, Inc., and Los Alamos National
          Bank
        * 1999—STMicroelectronics, Inc.-Region Americas, BI, The Ritz-Carlton
          Hotel Co., L.L.C., and Sunny Fresh Foods
        * 1998—Boeing Airlift and Tanker Programs, Solar Turbines Inc., and
          Texas Nameplate Co., Inc.
        * 1997—3M Dental Products Division, Solectron Corp., Merrill Lynch
          Credit Corp., and Xerox Business Services
        * 1996—ADAC Laboratories, Dana Commercial Credit Corp., Custom
          Research Inc., and Trident Precision Manufacturing Inc.
        * 1995—Armstrong World Industries Building Products Operation and
          Corning Telecommunications Products Division
        * 1994—AT&T Consumer Communications Services, GTE Directories Corp.,
          and Wainwright Industries Inc.
        * 1993—Eastman Chemical Co. and Ames Rubber Corp.
        * 1992—AT&T Network Systems Group/ Transmission Systems Business
          Unit, Texas Instruments Inc. Defense Systems & Electronics Group,
          AT&T Universal Card Services, The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Co., and
          Granite Rock Co.
        * 1991—Solectron Corp., Zytec Corp., and Marlow Industries
        * 1990—Cadillac Motor Car Division, IBM Rochester, Federal Express
          Corp., and Wallace Co. Inc.
        * 1989—Milliken & Co. and Xerox Corp. Business Products and Systems
        * 1988—Motorola Inc., Commercial Nuclear Fuel Division of
          Westinghouse Electric Corp., and Globe Metallurgical Inc.

      When were the education and health care categories established?
      Both categories were introduced in 1999. Since then, a total of 37
      applications have been submitted in the education category and 25 in
      the health care category.

      Any for-profit or not-for-profit public or private organization that
      provides educational or health care services in the United States or
      its territories is eligible to apply for the award. That includes
      elementary and secondary schools and school districts; colleges,
      universities, and university systems; schools or colleges within a
      university; professional schools; community colleges; technical
      schools; and charter schools. In health care, it includes hospitals,
      HMOs, long-term-care facilities, health care practitioner offices, home
      health agencies, health insurance companies, or medical/dental
      laboratories.

      As in the other three categories, applicants must show achievements and
      improvements in seven areas: leadership; strategic planning; customer
      and market focus (for education: student, stakeholder, and market
      focus; for health care: focus on patients, other customers, and
      markets); information and analysis; human resource focus (for
      education: faculty and staff focus; for health care: staff focus);
      process management; and business results (for both education and health
      care: organizational performance results).

      Many education and health care organizations are using the Baldrige
      criteria to good effect. For example:
        * The New Jersey Department of Education permits school systems to
          use the New Jersey Quality Achievement Award criteria—based on the
          Baldrige Award criteria—as an alternative to its state assessment
          criteria. Other states are considering a similar approach.
        * The National Alliance of Business and the American Productivity and
          Quality Center have developed the Baldrige In Education Initiative,
          a national program to improve the management systems of education
          organizations and educational outcomes.
        * In April 2000, the National Education Goals Panel (NEGP) held a
          nationwide teleconference, “Creating a Framework for High Achieving
          Schools,” to focus on the Baldrige criteria in
          education. In the foreword to a report issued in conjunction with
          the teleconference, then-Governor Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin
          and 2000 chair for the NEGP, said the Baldrige criteria for
          education “can provide educators with a framework and strategies
          for improving their schools and helping all children to reach high
          standards.”
        * At the teleconference, Bob Chase, president of the National
          Education Association (NEA), said, “The Baldrige process and what I
          call ‘new unionism’ are a quality match. Most crucially, NEA’s new
          unionism and the Baldrige process share the same bottom line,
          improving student achievement.”
        * Dr. Michael Wood, CEO, Mayo Foundation and Clinic, hosted a
          Baldrige Health Care Summit on June 29, 2000, involving 10 leading
          health care institutions in the United States.
        * Special sessions on Baldrige in health care were held at the
          Institute for Health Care Improvement conferences in December 1999
          and December 2000.
        * Motorola University hosted 120 health care leaders for a one-week
          course on Baldrige and Quality Improvement in Health Care in
          February 2001.
        * Richard Norling, CEO, Premier Inc., a leading distributor of health
          care supplies, is serving as president of the private-sector
          Baldrige Foundation during 2001.

      Why are categories in education and health care needed?
      Since its creation in 1987, the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award
      has played an important role in helping thousands of U.S. companies
      improve not only their products and services, their customers’
      satisfaction, and their bottom line, but also their overall
      performance.

      Now, organizations in other sectors vital to the U.S. economy—education
      and health care—are recognizing that the Baldrige Award’s tough
      performance excellence standards can help stimulate their improvement
      efforts as well. Just as it has for U.S. businesses, a Baldrige Award
      program can help these organizations improve performance and foster
      communication, sharing of “best practices,” and partnerships among
      schools, health care organizations, and businesses.

      How are recipients selected?
      Organizations that are headquartered in the United States may apply for
      the award. Applications for the award are evaluated by an independent
      Board of Examiners composed of primarily private-sector experts in
      quality and business. Examiners look for achievements and improvements
      in all seven categories. Organizations that pass an initial screening
      are visited by teams of examiners to verify information in the
      application and to clarify questions that come up during the review.
      Each applicant receives a written summary of strengths and areas for
      improvement in each area addressed by the criteria.

      “The application and review process for the Baldrige Award is the best,
      most cost-effective and comprehensive business health audit you can
      get,” says Arnold Weimerskirch, former chair of the Baldrige Award
      panel of judges and vice president of quality, Honeywell, Inc.

      Does quality pay?
      Studies by NIST, universities, business organizations, and the U.S.
      General Accounting Office have found that investing in quality
      principles and performance excellence pays off in increased
      productivity, satisfied employees and customers, and improved
      profitability—both for customers and investors. For example, NIST has
      tracked a hypothetical stock investment in Baldrige Award winners and
      applicants receiving site visits. The studies have shown that these
      companies soundly outperform the Standard & Poor’s 500.

      Is it tougher for small organizations to receive the award?
      The Baldrige Award’s small business recipients have proven that any
      U.S. organization can improve by using the criteria’s performance
      excellence framework. But, given the importance of smaller businesses
      to the U.S. economy, NIST is mapping out ways to strengthen awareness
      of the award program and criteria among these organizations.
      One promising vehicle for tapping into the nation’s small and mid-sized
      organizations is through the Manufacturing Extension Partnership,
      another NIST-managed program. Offering services in all 50 states and
      Puerto Rico, the MEP is a nationwide system of services and support for
      smaller manufacturers giving them unprecedented access to new
      technologies, resources, and expertise. In surveys of MEP clients,
      quality management and improvement are among the most requested areas
      for assistance. A Baldrige expert is working with directors of the
      locally managed MEP centers to inform and educate them about the
      benefits of quality for smaller manufacturers. Also, MEP
      centers are using the Baldrige Criteria for Performance Excellence as a
      tool to evaluate center performance.

      Can only U.S. organizations receive the award?
      Any for-profit organization headquartered in the United States or its
      territories may apply for the award, including U.S. subunits of foreign
      companies.

      Do the award criteria take into account an organization’s financial
      performance?
      Yes. The criteria include many factors that contribute to financial
      performance, including business decisions and strategies that lead to
      better market performance, gains in market share, and customer
      retention and satisfaction. Organizations are urged to use financial
      information, including profit trends, in analyzing and reporting on
      improved overall performance and to look for the connection between the
      two.

      Does the award amount to a product or service endorsement for the award
      recipients?
      No. The award is given because an organization has shown it has an
      outstanding system for managing its products, services, human
      resources, and customer relationships. As part of the evaluation, an
      organization is asked to describe its system for assuring the quality
      of its goods and services. It also must supply information on quality
      improvement and customer satisfaction efforts and results. That does
      not mean that a recipient’s products or services are endorsed.

      Why are the Baldrige Award recipients asked to share their successful
      strategies?
      One of the main purposes of the award is to pass on information about
      the recipient’s performance excellence strategies that other
      organizations can tailor for their own needs. Representatives from the
      award recipients willingly have shared their organizations’ performance
      strategies and methods with thousands.

      To what extent are they asked to share their strategies?
      The managers of each recipient must decide how much time and effort to
      devote to activities such as speaking engagements and tours of
      facilities. The requirements of the award program are minimal.
      Recipients are asked to participate in the award’s annual conference
      and several co-sponsored regional conferences, to provide basic
      materials to those who request it on their organization’s performance
      strategies and methods, and to answer news media inquiries.

      Do advertising and publicity diminish the image and prestige of the
      award?
      The law establishing the award states that an award recipient may
      publicize its receipt of such award and use the award in its
      advertising. Promoting public and business awareness of quality
      improvement is one of the prime goals of the program, and advertising
      is one way to meet this goal. Guidelines help organizations assure
      their advertising is appropriate in representing their Baldrige Award
      recognition.

      Are organizations simply chasing after the award and ignoring the
      lessons of performance improvement?
      The perception by some that receiving the award is the goal of U.S.
      organizations is not supported by the facts. Says Earnest Deavenport,
      chairman and chief executive officer of Eastman Chemical Company,
      “Eastman, like other Baldrige Award winners, didn’t apply the concepts
      of total quality management to win an award. We did it to win
      customers. We did it to grow. We did it to prosper and to remain
      competitive in a world marketplace.” Thousands of organizations are
      using Baldrige Award performance excellence criteria to assess their
      organization and to improve. The program has helped to stimulate an
      amazing movement to improve U.S. organizations, including companies;
      academic institutions; and federal, state, and local government
      agencies.

      If this is a federal government program, why are organizations charged
      a fee to apply?
      Federal funding for this program is about $5 million annually and is
      used by NIST to manage the program. The application fees are charged to
      cover expenses associated with distribution and review of applications
      and development of feedback reports. The application and review process
      is considered to be a very cost-effective and comprehensive business
      health audit. For an application fee ranging from $4,500 for large
      organizations to $300 for non-profits, organizations receive at least
      300 hours of review by a minimum of eight business and quality experts.
      Site-visited organizations receive over 1,000 hours of in-depth review.
      Every applicant receives an extensive feedback report highlighting
      strengths and areas to improve. An article in the Journal for Quality
      and Participation said, “The Baldrige feedback report is arguably the
      best bargain in consulting in America.”

      May an organization hire a consultant to help prepare answers for the
      Baldrige application?
      Applicants for the award are asked to supply facts and data to
      substantiate their claims concerning their management practices.
      Consultants, including members of the Board of Examiners, may provide
      services on performance management issues as well as the Baldrige Award
      process. However, since there are no secret answers or even right or
      wrong answers to the Baldrige application, the award cannot be received
      by hiring someone to fill in the blanks.

      An organization must show through facts and data that it has a
      world-class management system in place and that it is continually
      looking for ways to improve.

      As a final check before recommending recipients, members of the Board
      of Examiners visit the more outstanding candidates for the award.
      During these site visits, examiners interview employees and review
      pertinent records and data. The objective is to verify the information
      provided in the application and to answer questions raised during the
      board’s review. An organization that hired someone to fill out its
      application would never make it through this rigorous review if its
      performance management system was not supported by facts and data.

      Is it a conflict of interest for members of the Board of Examiners to
      work as consultants?
      No. Members of the Board of Examiners are experts in evaluating
      performance management systems. They are in demand as speakers, as
      information resources, and as consultants. These activities serve as a
      way to make more people aware of performance improvement techniques and
      the Baldrige Award.

      However, since the examiners and judges on the board review
      applications for the award and are involved in recommending award
      recipients, precautions are taken to prevent a conflict of interest or
      even the appearance of conflict. Rigorous rules are followed at every
      stage of the review.

      Primarily, this means all members of the board must abide by a code of
      ethics requiring, among other things, that they disclose all business
      affiliations that might create a conflict. In such cases, they cannot
      review an application, comment on it, or make any judgments that could
      affect it. It is a violation of the code for board members even to ask
      for information on applications other than those to which they are
      assigned.

      Other safeguards and checks also are built into the four-step review
      process. For example, during the first step, each application is
      evaluated independently by at least eight different examiners. By the
      time the review is over, some applicants will have gone through over
      1,000 hours of evaluation.

      Does a decline in applications for the award indicate a decline in
      interest about quality and the Baldrige Award?
      The number of applicants for the national Baldrige Award is not an
      indicator of overall interest in quality or the award program. Interest
      continues to grow both nationwide and internationally.

      For example, participation in state and local award programs has
      increased steadily. In 1991, fewer than 10 states had award programs.
      Now, 43 states have or are establishing award programs. Most are
      modeled after the Baldrige Award, and many organizations opt to compete
      for them first before considering a Baldrige Award application. Many of
      the Baldrige Award recipients also have won state quality awards.

      Internationally, nearly 60 quality awards are in place. Most have been
      established within the past several years, and many are based on the
      Baldrige Award. In Japan, home of the Deming Prize, an award that
      closely resembles the Baldrige Award has been established.

      Also, it is important to remember the award program is much more than a
      contest. While recognizing organizations that have successful
      performance management systems is the most visible part of the program,
      its intent is much broader. Equally important is the award’s role in
      raising awareness about quality by encouraging all U.S. businesses and
      organizations to set up performance improvement programs whether or not
      they intend, or are even eligible, to apply for the award.

      How does the Baldrige Award differ from ISO 9000?
      The purpose, content, and focus of the Baldrige Award and ISO 9000 are
      very different. The Baldrige Award was created by Congress in 1987 to
      enhance U.S. competitiveness. The award program promotes quality
      awareness, recognizes quality achievements of U.S. organizations, and
      provides a vehicle for sharing successful strategies. The Baldrige
      Award criteria focus on results and continuous improvement. They
      provide a framework for designing, implementing, and assessing a
      process for managing all business operations.

      ISO 9000 is a series of five international standards published in 1987
      by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Geneva,
      Switzerland. Companies can use the standards to help determine what is
      needed to maintain an efficient quality conformance system. For
      example, the standards describe the need for an effective quality
      system, for ensuring that measuring and testing equipment is calibrated
      regu-larly and for maintaining an adequate record-keeping system. ISO
      9000 registration determines whether a company complies with its own
      quality system.
      Overall, ISO 9000 registration covers less than 10 percent of the
      Baldrige Award criteria.

      Is the Baldrige Award a U.S. version of Japan’s Deming award?
      The basic purposes of both awards are the same: to promote recognition
      of quality achievements and to raise awareness of the importance and
      techniques of quality improvement. However, the Baldrige Award:
        * focuses more on results and service,
        * relies upon the involvement of many different professional and
          trade groups,
        * provides special credits for innovative approaches to quality,
        * includes a strong customer and human resource focus, and
        * stresses the importance of sharing information.

      Why was NIST selected by Congress to manage the award and what is the
      role of ASQ?
      NIST is a non-regulatory agency of the Commerce Department’s Technology
      Administration. NIST develops and promotes measurements, standards, and
      technology to enhance productivity, facilitate trade, and improve the
      quality of life. NIST was selected by Congress to design and manage the
      award program because of its role in helping U.S. organizations
      compete, its world-renowned expertise in quality control and assurance,
      and its reputation as an impartial third party.

      ASQ—the American Society for Quality—assists NIST with the application
      review process, preparation of award documents, publicity, and
      information transfer. ASQ is a professional, non-profit association
      serving more than 80,000 individual and 700 corporate members in the
      United States and 62 other nations.

      For further information, reporters should contact Jan Kosko, NIST
      Public and Business Affairs, (301) 975-2767, e-mail at
      janice.kosko@nist.gov. Others should write or call the Baldrige
      National Quality Program, NIST, Stop 1020, Gaithersburg, Md.
      20899-1020, phone: (301) 975-2036, fax: (301) 948-3716. Information
      also is available at www.quality.nist.gov.


      Go back to Fact Sheet page

      Date created: 3/01/01
      Last updated: 12/4/01
      Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
