http://frv1.sao.noaa.gov/launch.html


   iPlanet Web Server, Enterprise Edition is the web server of choice for
   hosting business-critical information and applications on the Internet,
   an intranet or an extranet. Fast, flexible, and reliable, it is the
   best way to transform any company into a company.com.
   Features
   Servlets and Java Server Pages
   iPlanet Web Server includes a high-performance, in-process
   implementation for Java Servlets and Java Server Pages as well as
   plugable JVM support, remote Java debugging and profiling capabilities.
   Demos can be found in the plugins directory. Faster & More Flexible
   SHTML
   Parsed html (SHTML) performance is much improved as a result of a new,
   streamlined caching mechanism. In addition, content developers can now
   define their own SHTML tags, making content creation simpler and more
   efficient. Support for document headers and footers has also been
   added.
   Feature-rich Administration
   The administration interface gives you fine-grained control over the
   server without sacrificing ease-of-use. Control site access, delegate
   administration, configure multiple servers, and much more at the touch
   of a button. Enterprise Server also gives you more control over users
   through tighter integration with LDAP directory servers. Publishing and
   Search
   Content authors can publish and control documents easily through the
   Web Publisher, and index those documents by body text or file
   properties with the search engine.

   Note: The above links are only accessible if the feature is activated
   within the administration server.
   Documentation and Useful Links
   Reference Material contains Web Server documentation, including
   programming and administration guides. "Tuning Server Performance," a
   chapter in the Administration Guide,describes several techniques to
   optimize Web Server for your particular environment.
   DevEdge Online contains valuable information for developers about all
   iPlanet products and technologies. Server Central contains information
   on all iPlanet server products including Web Server.
   Contact iPlanet
   iPlanet Home Site Register
   Technical Support Feedback
