http://www.epa.gov/epahome/jobs.htm

   Skip common site navigation and headers
   United States Environmental Protection Agency
   Jobs

      Recent Additions | Contact Us | Print Version Search: __________ Search
      Advanced Search
   Begin Hierarchical Links EPA Home > Jobs End Hierarchical Links



   EPA Newsroom
   Browse EPA Topics
   Laws & Regulations
   Where You Live
   Information Sources
   Educational Resources
   About EPA
   Programs
   Business Opportunities
   Jobs
   Recursos en Español
   EPA's Explorer's Club for Kids


Employment Information


   EPA employs approximately 18,000 people in locations across the
   country, including its headquarters in Washington DC, 10 regional
   offices, and 17 laboratories. If you are interested in helping us
   protect the global environment for this generation and generations to
   come, we invite you to explore this site further.

   ezhire@EPA
   Ezhire is EPA's web-based recruitment and application system.
   Applicants can browse, register, receive electronic notification of
   vacancies, and apply to EPA jobs by using ezhire@EPA. Please note that
   paper applications are not accepted unless hardship circumstances can
   be demonstrated.

   Internships, Fellowships & Student Employment
   Please visit the following link www.epa.gov/epapages/epahome/intern.htm
   for student and recent graduate programs. In addition, learn more about
   the Federal Government's Student Educational Employment Program exit
   EPA .

   Attorney and Law Clerk Jobs
   These positions are not covered by regular civil service hiring
   procedures. EPA hires attorneys directly at its various locations.
   Contact the Human Resources Office in the location of your interest.

   Senior Executive Service (SES) Jobs exit EPA
   For current listings of SES employment opportunities at EPA, visit
   www.usajobs.opm.gov exit EPA .

   USA Jobs exit EPA
   The Office of Personal Management provides access to all federal job
   opportunities within the United States Government.

   EPA's Employment Benefits
   Information on EPA's employment benefits, such as Quality of Worklife
   Programs.

   Anti-Discrimination Policy
   EPA is an Equal Employment Employer. For more information on Title VI
   and Title VII programs at EPA, please visit EPA's Office of Civil
   Rights.

   People with Disabilities
   Visit this link to learn more about selective placement for people with
   disabilities.

   U.S. Citizenship Requirements exit EPA
   EPA is a competitive service Agency of the Executive Branch of the U.S.
   government. U.S. citizenship is a requirement for most positions.

   EPA Career Fields
   EPA offers exciting job opportunities in a diverse range of career
   fields. The Federal Government uses occupational series codes to
   identify specific job occupations - visit this page to view standard
   occupational codes, many of which are available at EPA.

   Qualification Standards exit EPA
   Qualification Standards are the government wide criterion used to
   assess applicants' basic qualifications for positions.

                                 Highlights

     EPA offices
     Link to more information about EPA's offices and laboratories
     nationwide.

     Human Resources Offices
     A list of all EPA's Human Resources Offices nationwide.

     Workforce Demographics
     View data about EPA's workforce, including major occupations, grade
     distribution, diversity, age, education, and more.




                   Begin Site Footer

   EPA Home | Privacy and Security Notice | Contact Us
