http://www.nohic.nidcr.nih.gov/special_care.html

   Home Site
     National Oral Health Information Clearinghouse
   Skip navigation and go directly to page content

   Welcome to NOHIC
   What Is Special Care?
   Special Care Publications
   The Oral Health Database
   Order Publications Online
   Resource Links
   Oral Complications of Cancer Treatment
     Special Care in Oral Health
     * What is special care?
     * Why do patients need special care?
     * How can I get more information?

   What is special care?

   It is an approach to oral health management tailored to the individual
   needs of people with a variety of medical conditions or limitations
   that require more than routine delivery of oral care. Special care
   encompasses preventive, diagnostic, and treatment services.

   A person with diabetes who is at increased risk of gum disease, a young
   child who needs dentures because of a genetic disorder, or a person
   with arthritis who cannot hold a toothbrush require special care.
   Standard treatment procedures can be adapted to fit most patients needs
   and abilities. While some patients require more specialized care, most
   can be treated successfully in general dental practices.

   Why do patients need special care?

   Some patients need routine oral health care, but have medical
   conditions or limitations that require delivery of care beyond the
   routine. The dental team, for example, may need to learn to transfer a
   patient with cerebral palsy from the wheelchair to the dental chair, to
   use some sign language to communicate with deaf patients, or to adapt
   oral hygiene devices so a patient can use them.

   Other patients have medical and oral conditions that call for
   extraordinary care and require oral health professionals to have
   specialized knowledge. Surgical treatment of oral cancer or genetic
   craniofacial defects, such as cleft lip and palate, often require
   extensive reconstruction that involves many health specialists.
   Further, disorders such as ectodermal dysplasia and osteogenesis
   imperfecta directly affect tooth and facial development and demand
   specialized treatment.

   In addition, many systemic diseases and certain medical treatments have
   oral health implications. Dental professionals may need to develop a
   treatment strategy for a patient who has received an organ transplant,
   determine the best anesthetic alternative for a patient who has heart
   disease, or develop an oral health plan for a patient who must undergo
   treatment for cancer.

   The oral health of special care patients may be neglected because of a
   demanding disease, a disabling condition, or limited access to oral
   health care. The coordination of care and an understanding of special
   care issues in oral health are essential for all members of a patients
   health care team, including medical and dental professionals and
   caregivers.

   How can I get more information?

   The National Oral Health Information Clearinghouse (NOHIC) directs both
   patients and professionals to sources of information and materials on
   topics relating to special care in oral health. NOHIC maintains a
   computerized database that provides descriptions and ordering
   information for publications and educational materials. It also has
   information on organizations involved with special care. In addition,
   NOHIC produces and distributes patient and professional education
   materials.

   NOHIC is a service of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial
   Research, one of the National Institutes of Health. For more
   information, please contact

               National Oral Health Information Clearinghouse
                                 1 NOHIC Way
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-3500
                            Voice: (301) 402-7364
                             TTY: (301) 656-7581
                             Fax: (301) 907-8830
                         E-mail: nohic@nidcr.nih.gov
                      Internet: www.nohic.nidcr.nih.gov

   OP-26
        PDF version
   Email Us
   Comments
   1 NOHIC Way, Bethesda, MD, 20892-3500; Voice: 301-402-7364; Fax:
   301-907-8830; Email: nohic@nidcr.nih.gov; TTY: 301-656-7581
   A service of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial
   Research, National Institutes of Health                       NIDCR Logo
   NOHIC Home | What Is Special Care? | Special Care Publications | Order
   Publications Online | The Oral Health Database | Resource Links | Oral
   Complications of Cancer Treatment | E-mail Us | Privacy Statement |
   Disclaimers
