http://www.onlinewbc.gov/SBANewsletter.html

   This is the alternative version of the navigation menu on the left hand
   side of the page. This is to be used if you have JavaScript turned off,
   or your browser doesn't support JavaScript.
   About Us
   News Information
   Calendar
   Newsletter
   What's New
   Success Story of the Month
   Facts And Statistics
   Latest Program Announcements
   WomenBiz.gov
   Women's Business Centers
   Find Local Services
   Business Basics
   Starting Your Business
   Financing Your Business
   Running Your Business
   Growing Your Business
   Accounting and Financing
   Management
   Marketing
   Networking
   Mentoring and Counseling
   Women's Business Organizations
   Hot Topics
   Government Contracting
   E-commerce and Technology
   Exporting
   Disaster Assistance
   Military Spouses and Portable Businesses
   Women with Disabilities
   Research and Development
   Young Entrepreneurs
   Major Partners
   White House Office of Women's Initiatives and Outreach
   National Women's Business Council
   Other Resources
   Espanol
   Chinese
   Japanese
   Russian
   Icelandic
   Use this link to skip to the content of this page Online Women's
   Business Center (Graphic)

   CAPTION:

   About Us
   News
   Women's Business Center
   Find Local Service
   Business Basics
   Networking
   Hot Topics
   Major Partners
   Espanol
   Chinese - Your browser may require special software to read this
   language.
   Japanese - Your browser may require special software to read this
   language.
   Russian
   Icelandic

               Home for this area. Back to previous location.

   September 2001
       Women Working Just as we were getting ready to send this out
       Tuesday morning, we were stopped by the news of what was happening
       in New York. We spent the next hour riveted to the television as
       the horror unfoldedthen we were evacuated. It was a day none of us
       will ever forget, as much as we might want to, and we extend our
       deepest sympathy to all those who lost friends or loved ones, or
       were otherwise hurt by this terrible tragedy.
       But this is America, the land of promise, and we will not let this
       act of terror beat us. Here, as nowhere else on earth, the
       entrepreneurial spirit thrives. The best way we can answer this
       attack on the American way of life is to get back to work and show
       them that our spirit will not be broken.
       The SBA is already working to help small businesses affected by
       this disaster get back on their feet. Our four womens business
       centers in New York City will be working with the SBA disaster
       office to help businesses that have been affected. We have lots of
       information online, too, at http://www.sba.gov/disaster. Another
       good resource is the governmentwide site at
       http://www.firstgov.gov.
       In other news, its already time to start thinking ahead to Small
       Business Week. Meanwhile, the SBA has some helpful new tools to
       help with procurement and taxes. Theres a new online bookstore you
       may want to check out, too. And, as always, theres a calendar full
       of conferences, events and opportunities.
       START THINKING SMALL BUSINESS WEEK
       Yes, its only September, but already you need to start thinking
       about Small Business Week next Spring. Thats right. The SBA needs
       your help to find the very best small business people and small
       business advocates from which to select our winners. The
       "Nomination Guidelines National Small Business Week Awards 2002"
       brochure, which is available from your SBA district office,
       provides information on the deadlines and what is required in the
       submissions. The submissions have to be in by November, and you
       know how Autumn flies by and then youre into the holidays and and
       where did the time go?!
       So take a minute and think. Is there a business you know of that is
       doing really great things? That is run by someone remarkable,
       someone who is deeply involved in your community, who stands out
       from the crowd, who has a really good story? Well, what are you
       waiting for? Nominate her! (Of course, you can nominate men and
       co-owners, too.) The point is, we need information on the really
       outstanding business people in your communitywho knows, you may
       nominate next years winner!
       Nominations can be submitted by individuals, groups, lenders,
       organizationseven by employees who think they have the best boss in
       the world (and if you read some of these stories, youll understand
       why). Yes, submissions take some work (thats why you need to get
       started NOW!), but you know these folks are worth it. Get in touch
       with your SBA district office and get some help.
       OPENINGS, OPENINGS, OPENINGS!
       Celebration at Fort Worth The August, September and October
       calendars are full of WBC grand openings and events celebrating
       re-funding with sustainability grants; with the exception of the
       grand opening in Queens, which has been postponed, they will go on.
       Michele Pettes, executive director, with Congressman Charlie
       Gonzalez The El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce led the way with
       an event on July 13. In August, we had events at Fort Worth Women's
       Business Center (photo, right, director Catherine Simpson in front
       of the centers new home); the Central Alabama Women's Business
       Center in Birmingham; the Womens Economic Self-Sufficiency Team in
       Albuquerque, N.M.; and San Antonios Texas Center for Womens
       Business Enterprise (photo left, Michele Pettes, executive
       director, with Congressman Charlie Gonzalez). September started off
       with the Business Training Institute in Utica, N.Y.; followed
       closely by the Womens Business Center of the Capital Area in
       Washington, D.C.; the Northwest Womens Business Center in Everett,
       Wa; the Business Resource Center at Career Training Institute in
       Helena, Mont; the Womens Business Assistance Center in Mobile,
       Ala.; and the Southeast Local Development Corporation in
       Chattanooga. Heres whats coming up:
       09/18 Walthill, Neb., Rural Enterprise Assistance Project
       09/26 Norman, Okla., Oklahomans for Indian Opportunity
       10/01 Oklahoma City, Okla., Institution Programs
       10/02 New Orleans, La., Urban League Womens Business Center
       10/04 Grand Rapids, Mich., Grand Rapids Opportunities for Women
       10/19 Bronx, N.Y., Hunts Point Economic Development Corp.
       10/24 Sioux Falls, S.D., University of Sioux Falls/ Center for
       Women
       TBA Kew Gardens, N.Y., Queens County Overall Economic Development
       Corp.
       TBA Worcester, Mass., Center for Women and Enterprise
       TBA Durant, Olka., Rural Enterprises of Oklahoma
       TBA Las Vegas, Nev., Southern Nevada Certified Development Company
       ADMINISTRATOR ATTENDS WOMENS BUSINESS CONFERENCE
       On September 6, Administrator Barreto and I spoke at Women in
       Business 2001: Sharing the Vision in Chicago. Women in Business
       2001 was a joint conference this year, combining the 15th Annual
       WBDC Entrepreneurial Womans Conference and Womens Business & Buyers
       Mart, and the 2nd annual national conference of Womens Business
       Enterprise National Council (WBENC), the nations premier
       third-party certifier of businesses owned and operated by women.
       Womens Business Development Center co-directors Hedy Ratner and
       Carol Dougal are pictured right with Illinois Gov. George Ryan and
       Administrator Barreto. Read more about Hedy, Carol and the WBDC at
       http://www.sba.gov/womeninbusiness/wbc_current.html.
       NEW TAX & PROCUREMENT TOOLS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
       Free CD-ROM Makes Small Business Taxes Easier
       Research tax questions and access tax products easily with a new,
       free tax tool developed jointly by the SBA and the Internal Revenue
       Service. The Small Business Resource Guide 2001 What You Need to
       Know About Taxes and Other Topics CD-ROM is an interactive tool
       that provides access to all IRS business tax forms, publications
       and other information necessary to understand and manage
       tax-related issues. It provides a comprehensive resource directory
       aimed at every stage of a small business and offers an e-filing
       video as well as basic tax-law training modules.
       The Small Business Resource Guide 2001 is available through the SBA
       home page at http://www.sba.gov. Click on "Online Library" and then
       "Publications." You can subscribe to a multiagency e-mail
       newsletter, view updates to the CD-ROM, and link to other
       government agency and nonprofit Web sites. The CD-ROM is also
       available free by calling 1-800-TAX-FORM or 1-800-U-ASK-SBA, or by
       contacting one of SBAs business information centers, womens
       business centers or small business development centers. All
       locations are listed at http://www.sba.gov/services.
       HUBZone Procurement Searches Made Easier
       Small businesses in economically distressed areas around the
       country can now use a free, online search tool identify federal
       contracting opportunities available to certified firms in the
       HUBZone Empowerment Contracting Program. The search tool provides a
       direct link to CBD-Net, the online Commerce Business Daily, which
       posts procurement opportunities daily. Later this year it will also
       accommodate a new single-point governmentwide procurement postings
       Web site, FedBizOpps, which is expected to supplement CBD-Net
       starting October 1.
       The HUBZone programs newest search tool makes its debut just two
       months after HUBZone Gatewayan online business tool and extension
       of the SBAs PRO-Net database. Both the new search tool and HUBZone
       Gateway can be accessed at www.sba.gov/hubzone.
       NEW WMPKG Online Bookstore
       Women in Packaging, Inc. just announced a progressive new addition
       to its Web site that makes cutting-edge book titles available
       online, including a host of career-oriented, industry-wise, and
       work-life balance publications. "A lot of our program facilitators
       are very talented authors," said JoAnn Hines, founder and executive
       director of WMPKG. "We believe that by making their books available
       to the greater public, we are able to provide greater outreach to
       our membership and supporters." For more information, visit the
       WMPKG Web site at www.womeninpackaging.org or e-mail
       wpstaff@womeninpackaging.org.
                        _________________________________

                          View January's Newsletter
                           View March's Newsletter
                           VIew April's Newsletter
                            View May's Newsletter
                           View June's Newsletter
                           View July's Newsletter
                          View August's Newsletter

                            Purple Line (graphic)

                  Search This Web Site ONLY Search FirstGov
       Search all of SBA's site. To SBA's Home Page. To SBA's Site Map

        For more information or comments on this site, please contact
                                owbo@sba.gov
    or call (202) 205-6673 or contact the SBA Answer Desk at 1-800 U ASK
                                     SBA
                            or answerdesk@sba.gov

                         *Last Modified: 08-10-2001
                         Application Version: 2.0.1
