http://www.oig.dol.gov/hotnet1.htm

                          U.S. Department of Labor

                         Office of Inspector General

                                   HOTLINE

   What is the Hotline?

   The U.S. Department of Labor (USDOL), Office of Inspector General(OIG)
   Hotline is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to received allegations
   for fraud, waste, and abuse. An operator is on duty during normal
   business hours. At all other times, a message can be recorded.

   The purpose of Hotline is to provide the public and Federal employees
   with the opportunity to report allegations of:

     - violations of laws, rules, or regulations related to U.S DOL
     programs and operations;
     - mismanagement related to U.S.DOL programs and operations;
     - fraud, employee integrity, and gross waste of funds related to
     U.S. DOL programs and operations, or ;
     - substantial and specific dangers to the public health and safety
     which are related to U.S. DOL programs and operations.

   In addition, the U.S. DOL/ OIG is unique among federal Offices of
   Inspector General in that it is mandated by Congress to carry out a
   criminal enforcement program to combat organized crime influence and
   labor racketeering in the workplace. Labor racketeering includes the
   misuse of union or benefit plan assets or power.

   If you want to report such allegations, you may do so by using one of
   the following methods:
    1. Fill out a FHOTLINE FORM
    2. You can send allegations to this e-mail address:
       hotline@oig.dol.gov (put "hotline complaint" in the subject)
    3. You can call the toll-free telephone number: 1-800-347-3756 or
       202-693-6999.
    4. You can send a fax to: 202-693-5210
    5. You can write to:

     U.S. Department of Labor
     Office of Inspector General
     200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
     Room S-5506
     Washington, D.C. 20210

   The U.S. DOL/ OIG Hotline Form is an Internet mechanism used to
   facilitate reporting of allegations of fraud, waste, abuse, or
   mismanagement in programs administered or funded by U.S. DOL.

   To use a Hotline Form, you must have a web browser that supports both
   forms and HTML 3.0 tables.

   In all cases, please provide as much detail as possible concerning your
   allegations, including who, when, where, what, how and how much. You do
   not need to provide your name, please note the Privacy and Security
   statement below.

   U.S. DOL/ OIG Hotline Confidentiality Policy

   Individuals who provide information on allegations of fraud, waste,
   abuse, and mismanagement of federal funds in programs administered or
   funded by the U.S. Department of Labor, may remain anonymous, ask that
   their identities be held in confidence, or provide their names, with no
   restrictions. Your request for confidentiality must be specified.

   Our policy is to honor requests for confidentiality and not to release
   any data that would identify such individuals unless required to do so
   by order of law (e.g., court order, subpoena).

   FHOTLINE FORM

                       Privacy and Security Statement

                              ---DISCLAIMER---
