http://www.cdscc.nasa.gov/spacetracking/index.htm

                             Spacecraft Tracking
               [ Home ] [ Spacecraft Tracking ] [ Space News ]
     [ Spacecraft and Planets ] [ Education ] [ Canberra Space Centre ]
                          [ Australians in Space ]



   The Canberra Deep Space Communication Complex (CDSCC) is responsible
   for communicating with spacecraft undergoing interplanetary missions
   within our solar system, up to millions of kilometers away. We act like
   a post office sending packages of information between spacecraft and
   mission specialists here on Earth. The packages are sent in the form of
   radio signals between spacecraft and radio antennas.        CDSCC Site

                 Click on the image to see the site up close

   The Deep Space Network
   CDSCC is part of National Aeronautical and Space Agency's (NASA) Deep
   Space Network that spans the world to keep in constant touch with
   spacecraft no matter where they are in the solar system. Click here to
   see the other stations and to learn about how we work together to
   follow the spacecraft Antennas
   The CDSCC site has a number of different pieces of equipment which are
   used to track the spacecraft and they don't all look like dishes! Click
   here to see them in action and what they are used for.


   Live information
   See what we are tracking at the moment. Includes schedules and pictures
   of the antennas in action.

   How does it Work?
   Tracking spacecraft is a complicated business. Click here to find out
   how we do it.

   Control Room
   Take a look inside the nerve centre of the Complex. This video shows
   the computers that control the antennas. Click here to down load
   QuickTime player to view this file.

                           [quicktime3download.gif]
   Job Opportunities

   So you think you have what it takes to track a spacecraft? Visit our
   Human Resources Department to see what opportunities are open at the
   CDSCC at the moment


   These are some of the abbreviations that you may find on the above
   links:

   NASA: National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   DSN: Deep Space Network
   DSCC: Deep Space Communication Complex (can be prefixed with Canberra,
   Goldstone or Madrid)
   JPL: Jet Propulsion Laboratory
   CSIRO: Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
