http://www.txnd.uscourts.gov/Right.asp

                       Welcome to the Web Site for the
                        United States District Court
                     for the Northern District of Texas

                           Chief Judge A. Joe Fish
                       Karen Mitchell - Clerk of Court

    New Fort Worth District Court phone numbers
    Effective Tuesday, January 22, 2002

    News Release - New Chief Judge for the Northern District of Texas

    The Star Spangled Banner

     O say, can you see, by the dawn's early light,
     What so proudly we hail'd at the twilight's last gleaming?
     Whose broad stripes and bright stars, thro' the perilous fight,
     O'er the ramparts we watch'd, were so gallantly streaming?
     And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air,
     Gave proof thro' the night that our flag was still there.
     O say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave
     O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave?

     - Francis Scott Key, 1814
   [USFlag300.gif]


   The United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas was
   established in 1879 and serves 100 counties located throughout northern
   and western Texas. Congress has authorized twelve active judgeships in
   the district. Two senior judges are also assigned cases. Seven
   full-time magistrate judges and three part-time magistrate judges also
   serve the district. Court is held in seven divisions: Abilene,
   Amarillo, Dallas, Fort Worth, Lubbock, San Angelo and Wichita Falls.

   The clerk of court who is appointed by the district judges provides
   administrative and operational support to the court. Headquarters for
   the clerk's office is Dallas. Deputy clerks are also assigned to the
   other divisions. A deputy-in-charge is designated by the clerk for each
   division.

                                   MISSION

   The United States District Clerk's Office for the Northern District of
   Texas provides administrative and case management support to the court
   and service to the public in a professional, timely, and efficient
   manner.  We are dedicated to the fair and impartial administration of
   justice and strive to accomplish our mission by:

                 *    maintaining current, accurate records
          *    adhering to federal statutes and rules of procedure
       *    assisting the judicial officers we are appointed to serve


   This site was created to provide court information to attorneys,
   litigants and the public. It is maintained by the clerk's office. We
   are continually looking for ways to improve this site and encourage you
   to send your comments to the Webmaster_txnd @ txnd.uscourts.gov.

      The entrance to the Earle Cabell Federal Building located at 1100
     Commerce Street in Dallas is closed for renovations. The public may
    access the complex through the 1114 Commerce Street Federal Building.
   There will be signs posted in front of the building directing visitors
     to the temporary entrance. The Jackson Street entrance will be open
                            until further notice.


        You are visitor number Hit Counter since September 15, 1998
