http://wflc.od.nih.gov/computer/

         The NIH Work and Family Life Center (WFLC)


                                                    WFLC Home
                                                    What's New
                                                    Contact Us
                                                    Site Index

                             Computer Resources
                                   SPACER
                               Horizontal Rule

                                   SPACER

   Skip navigation, go to content for this page.

   Work/Life at NIH
   Work/Life Consultation
   Career Consultation
   Resource and Referral Services
   Lactation Program
   Seminar Series
   Career Workshops
   Customized Training
   Resource Library
   Computer Resources
   Hot Links
      Search
      ______ Submit






   Vertical Rule

   Career Development Patron Workstations

   The Work and Family Life Center houses two computer workstations
   dedicated to patron career development use. Walk-in use of computers
   and assistance are free to anyone needing help with an NIH or Federal
   job search. A copier and printer are available for these purposes as
   well.

   Self-paced career and skills development software programs are
   available for use as well.

   www.jobs.nih.gov

   www.jobs.nih.gov is the National Institutes of Healths employment web
   site. It includes all current NIH vacancy announcements (updated
   daily), as well as an on-line resume function and information on
   applying for a Federal job. The WFLC staff can assist patrons in
   accessing and using www.jobs.nih.gov.

   Quick & Easy Federal Jobs Kit

   Quick & Easy enables users to electronically create application
   materials for Federal jobs using any of the OPM-acceptable forms
   (SF-171, OF-612, and Federal resume). BE AWARE that although Quick &
   Easy also allows you to add, delete, and edit information and save
   multiple versions onto disks for future use, you can only call up those
   forms from a computer that actually has the software installed.

   The WFLC career counselors recommend that you update your forms every
   six months, even if you are not actively seeking a job.

   Aztec Software

   Aztec Software is a self-paced adult tutorial learning system. It is
   installed on one of the two patron workstations in the WFLC.

   Aztec modules include reading comprehension, vocabulary, spelling,
   punctuation, grammar, writing, formatting, proofreading, office skills,
   critical thinking, spatial relations, mechanical concepts, and medical
   vocabulary; as well as basic math skills such as addition &
   subtraction, multiplication & division, fractions & decimals,
   measurements, and metrics.

   The software can be used independently or in concert with career
   consultation for those who wish to enhance their basic skills, for
   pre-college preparation, self-development activities, leadership
   development, and for secretarial and office training.

   CareerPoint

   CareerPoint is installed on the other patron workstation. It is a user
   friendly computer-based software package designed to assist individuals
   in career development and planning. CareerPoint leads you through a
   series of activities to help you create and focus your career goals.

   Several self-assessment inventories are available to help you connect
   your skills, competencies, and vocational interests with the world of
   work. Action plans and networking strategies may be created. The
   software also features an exercise which allows you to construct a
   resume.

   These activities may be completed in several 1-2 hour sessions, or you
   may select and use modules which will address your own individual
   career needs. It is strongly recommended that CareerPoint be used along
   with WFLC career consultation.

   On-Campus Work Center

   For individuals needing a "remote office" while in Building 31,
   computers, phones, and a printer and fax machine are available in the
   On-Campus Work Center, room 1A1E09 (near the cafeteria). Hours are
   Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

   The On-Campus Work Center was sponsored by the NIH QWL Committee and is
   managed by the Work and Family Life Center.

       WFLC Home : Work/Life at NIH : Work/Life Consultation : Career
    Consultation : Workshops & Training : NIH Lactation Program : Seminar
   Series : Hot Links : Resource Library : Resource & Referral Services :
    Computer Resources : What's New : Contact Us : About Our Staff : Site
                             Index : Disclaimer
