http://www.dre.ca.gov/prz_bio.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


        Graphic: California portal banner showing pictures of grapes, San
   Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city skyline, the Hollywood
   sign and cypress tree




                          DRE Home
                          What's new
                          About DRE
                          Careers at DRE
                          DRE Records
                          Consumers
                          Escrow Violations
                          Examinees
                          Licensees
                          Subdivisions
                          Real Estate Law
                          Regulations
                          Publications
                          Forms
                          FAQs
                          Links
                          Index
                          Go to the DRE Kids Korner
                              Graphic: DRE Logo



   Department of Real Estate



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Biography of Paula Reddish Zinnemann

   Graphic: Paula Reddish Zinnemann, Real Estate Commissioner
   On November 8, 1999, Governor Gray Davis appointed Paula Reddish
   Zinnemann as Real Estate Commissioner for the State of California. As
   Commissioner, Ms. Reddish Zinnemann oversees the licensing and
   regulation of approximately 300,000 real estate licensees and is
   responsible for a staff of approximately 300.

   Commissioner Reddish Zinnemann, of Los Angeles, is an attorney and a
   real estate broker with more than thirty years experience in the real
   estate business.  Prior to being appointed Real Estate Commissioner,
   Ms. Reddish Zinnemann practiced law with the firm of Schwartz, Wisot &
   Wilson, LLP in Beverly Hills.

   Commissioner Reddish Zinnemann previously served as a member of the
   City of Los Angeles' Rent Adjustment Commission and the Los Angeles
   County Assessment Appeals Board.  She was a mediator for the Los
   Angeles County Superior Court and is a member of the Executive
   Committee of the Real Property Section of the Los Angeles County Bar
   Association. She is a past-President of the Beverly Hills Board of
   Realtors and was an active member of the California Association of
   Realtors.

   Ms. Reddish Zinnemann received her Juris Doctorate degree in 1983 from
   the University of West Los Angeles School of Law.

       Contact Us | Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | Tech Problems
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
           This page last modified on Wednesday, January 16, 2002
