http://secstate.wa.gov

                        Washington Secretary of State


   Home
   Overview
   Archives
   Corporations
   Elections
   Special Programs - ACP, Apostilles, Charities, EA, Inititatives, Medals
   of Merit & Valor, Productivity Board, Oral History, State Seal, State
   Flag
   Voter Services
   News Releases
   Links

   [go.gif]-Submit

                              Register & Vote!

                                    space

   [USEMAP:buttons_1.gif]
   space
   space

   Sam Reed spacer Welcome
   Hello and Welcome. As the 14th Secretary of State, I look forward to
   representing Washington and strengthening the office under your
   direction. 2002 is an exciting time with great promise to further
   improve the divisions and programs under the Secretary of State. You
   may access all of our programs through the menu on the left. For
   additional information call (360) 902-4151 or e-mail me at
   sreed@secstate.wa.gov. I look forward to hearing from you soon.



   State Seal spacer County Auditors and Secretary of State Preview Voting
   Machines
   Voters in three Washington counties will have the option to cast
   binding electronic votes for the first time in state history.
   1/29/2002
   NEWS RELEASE Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer

   Bipartisanship, Local Government and Coalition Building Key To Tacking
   States Tough Issues For Republican Elected Officials
   Secretary of State Sam Reed and Commissioner of Public Lands Doug
   Sutherland have pledged bipartisanship and cooperation with local
   governments and the private sector in order to tackle the tough issues
   facing Washington State.  1/15/2002
   NEWS RELEASE Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer

   Voting is Cool! spacer Secretary Reed and County Auditors to Energize
   Washington Youth
   Washington Secretary of State Sam Reed and County Auditors today
   expanded his nationally recognized "Voting is Cool!" program to
   creatively teach young people about democracy.  1/14/2002
   NEWS RELEASE Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer

   Washington State Legislative Building spacer Secretary of State Pushes
   Reform to Protect Integrity of Washington Elections
   Secretary of State Sam Reed today released a series of proposals to
   protect the integrity of Washington elections.   1/9/2002
   NEWS RELEASE AND LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE SUMMARY Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer

   Dan Evans spacer Former Governor Dan Evans' Papers Released
   The Secretary of States Office Archives Division has finished
   processing the papers of our states only three-term governor, Dan
   Evans. The papers detail Evans extraordinary career in public service
   that spanned three decades.   1/2/2002
   MORE Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer

   One Plan for Elections Reform Superior
   In an article published in newspapers across the state, Secretary of
   State Sam Reed discusses election reform proposals currently being
   reviewed by the US Congress.   12/27/2001
   READ ARTICLE Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer

   Greive receiving the Legislator of the Year Award in 1969 spacer Oral
   History of Seattle Politician Published
   The Secretary of States office recently released the life story of R.R.
   Bob Greive, a master strategist and campaigner, considered by some the
   hardest working politician of his time.  12/18/2001
   NEWS RELEASE Right Arrow for Text Link
   spacer
   spacer


                    Blanket Primary - Voice Your Opinion
       The Secretary of State's office has issued its report on public
       hearings held last year to gather input on potential changes to
           Washington state's "Blanket" Primary nominating system.
                                NEWS RELEASE
                                   REPORT
                            BLANKET PRIMARY INFO

   Washington History Photo Collage


   Tuesday, January 30, 1917     North Yakima's name became Yakima, as the
   governor signed the bill changing the city's name. In 1918, resident
   complained that "North Yakima" was too suburban sounding, and two towns
   split to become Yakima and Union Gap. The federal government's
   Reclamation Service stimulated irrigation projects inviting flocks of
   new residents in the first decade of the twentieth century. This
   stimulus established Yakima as a commercial giant in the region and
   inticed farmers in the area to grow a diverse array of crops including
   apples, hops, cherries, grapes, pears, asparagus, hay, and mint.

               Home  |  Overview  |  Archives  |  Corporations
   Elections  |  Special Programs  |  News Releases  |  Voter Services  |
                                    Links
