http://pacer.nyed.uscourts.gov

                               [pacerhdr.gif]

                        Edward R. Korman, Chief Judge
                   Robert C. Heinemann, Clerk of the Court

               IMPORTANT NOTICE from the PACER Administrator:
   All Judge Johnson civil cases filed on or after January 1, 2001 and all
    civil cases(cv) filed on or after January 1, 2002 will be located on
                                     the
                      Court's CM/ECF system. They will
                   NOT be available on this Pacer System.
                                 CIVIL CASES
          All cases filed or reopened on or after January 1, 1990.
                 All PENDING cases filed prior to that date.

                        CRIMINAL AND MAGISTRATE CASES
           All cases filed or reopened on or after July 15, 1991.
                 All PENDING cases filed prior to that date.
       The U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York is
      currently a site providing federal court case information on the
    Internet. If you experience trouble accessing this site, traditional
      dial-up PACER is still available. Whether you access PACER on the
     Internet or use the dial-up service, you will be required to use a
    login and password issued by the PACER Service Center. If you do not
     already have a PACER account, apply here or call (800) 676-6856 or
    (210) 301-6440 to obtain a registration form or visit our website at
     http://pacer.psc.uscourts.gov/. It takes about a week to receive a
              login and password from the PACER Service Center.
     There is a $.07 per page charge for downloading case information on
                                this system.
   The Judiciary is always open for suggestions from our electronic public
   access users for improvements. If you have comments or questions, send
     email to the PACER Service Center at pacer@psc.uscourts.gov. Please
     include the name of the specific court you are referring to in your
                                   email.


    For information or comments, please contact PACER Service Center To:
    PACER Service Center

             Please read our PACER Privacy and Security Notice
