http://sfa-vfa.ed.gov


  ED Home

  Feedback

                     Student Financial Assistance (SFA) VFA Initiative
          Student Financial Assistance has completed final negotiations with the
          guaranty agencies selected to submit proposals under the U.S.
          Department of Education's Voluntary Flexible Agreement (VFA)
          initiative. The last three agreements have been signed by Secretary of
          Education Rod Paige and are presently being implemented within the
          agencies and the SFA. Posted below for your information, the agencies
          that are implementing VFAs are:

   American Student Assistance
   California Student Aid Commission
   Great Lakes Higher Education Guaranty Corporation
   Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corporation

   A
   s implementation of the VFAs proceeds and the pilot program continues,
   we welcome your views on the process. Click on the "Feedback" button to
   the left and you'll be linked into a message and database page direct
   to us. Your comments will be reviewed by Cameron Ishaq, SFA's Director
   of Business Partner Relations, and all parties who respond via the
   feedback button will be contacted by SFA. We encourage all interested
   parties to share their views on this important initiative.

   N
   ote: In order to view the Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) files,
   you must have installed version 3.0 or higher of the Adobe Acrobat
   Reader (free). Installation instructions can be found on the Adobe
   site.

                                    View
   the Final Voluntary Flexible Agreements

        American Student Assistance Final Agreement (9 pages) [28 KB]

     California Student Aid Commission Final Agreement (7 pages) [21 KB]
               Great Lakes Final Agreement (10 pages) [104 KB]

   Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corporation Final Agreement (8 pages) [25
                                     KB]
                                [divider.gif]

                        U.S. Department of Education
                           7^th and D Streets, SW
                            Washington, DC 20202
                               1-800-4-FED-AID
                     We Help Put America Through School
             via email: Technical questions about the Web site:
                            webmaster@inet.ed.gov
            Other inquiries/comments: CustomerService@inet.ed.gov
          See also our list of Toll-Free Information Phone Numbers
   To report technical problems with the Web site, use our Problem Report
                                    Form
          To help us improve the site, fill out our Customer Survey

                      Page Last Modified April 19, 2001

                  You are visitor number 5547 to this page!


                                  [ED Home]
