http://www.nigms.nih.gov

   NIGMS Logo
   What's New
   Search
   Site Map
   [but_logo.gif]
   NIH Home Page National Institute of General Medical Sciences, National
   Institutes of Health

   About NIGMS News & Publications
                                  Funding NIGMS Staff
                                                     Links

   New publications! The Structures of Life, The Chemistry of Health,
   Genetic Basics, and Findings. Order free copies using our online
   publication list.

   Public comment requested on the NIGMS Strategic Plan for Reducing
   Health Disparities and the NIGMS Planning and Priorities document.

   The National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) is a
   component of the National Institutes of Health, the principal
   biomedical research agency of the United States Government. NIGMS
   supports basic biomedical research that is not targeted to specific
   diseases, but that increases understanding of life processes and lays
   the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis, treatment, and
   prevention.
   About NIGMS
   programs, including those for underrepresented minorities; budget;
   advisory council; visitor information News & Publications
   news releases, announcements, meetings, reports, features, publication
   list Funding
   program announcements, grant award mechanisms, study section rosters,
   grants databases NIGMS Staff
   and NIH job vacancies Links
   Internet biomedical resources

   [ What's New on This Site | Search This Site | Site Map | Credits ]

   We welcome your input. Please send comments on the content of this Web
   site or feedback on NIGMS programs to our Office of Communications and
   Public Liaison. Please send technical suggestions to our computer
   support staff. For information regarding your privacy when accessing
   this Web site, please see the NIGMS Web Privacy Statement. For
   information on accessibility, please see the NIGMS Web Site
   Accessibility Notice.

   NIGMS does not support research on specific diseases and does not
   conduct clinical trials. For information about a disease or disorder,
   contact the NIH Institute or Center that sponsors research in that
   area. For information about clinical trials, see ClinicalTrials.gov.

   FirstGov
   National Institute of General Medical Sciences
   National Institutes of Health
   45 Center Drive MSC 6200
   Bethesda, Maryland 20892-6200
   (301) 496-7301
