http://www.ohio.doe.gov

   Warning: Privacy and Security Policy
   Ohio Field Office Logo Banner
   Vertical Spacer Vertical Spacer
   Vertical Spacer
       Wednesday
       1/30/02 Vertical Bar GIF

                Science, Technology and Energy for our Future

   Vertical Bar GIF

   Vertical Spacer Vertical Spacer
   Home Link to What We Do Link to Site Information Link to Job Vacancies
   Link to Doing Business Web Page Link to Technology

   The Ohio Field Office exists to clean up old nuclear facilities... by
   the year 2005 we intend to be done. Our focus is to safely cleanup and
   restore five former nuclear weapons production sites throughout Ohio
   and western New York state.

   Our success is built on trust. We seek advice and guidance from
   citizens, regulators, and Congress.

   An End In Sight

   The sooner we get the job done, the less it will cost. Ohio Field
   Office Logo GIF Meeting our commitment is quite challenging. We must
   not only stay focused on "an end in sight," but we must also devote the
   proper resources to efficiently conduct business.

   Safety is a sign of efficiency. Our mission must not be marred by
   injuries or loss of life.

   An accelerated cleanup will reduce health and environmental risks, make
   sites available for community reuse, and maintain our compliance to
   federal and state laws and agreements.

   The DOE Office of Environmental Management is responsible for cleanup
   of our nations former weapons productions facilities.

   Since adopting the DOE's first ten-year cleanup plan with a validated
   baseline, costs have dropped dramatically. Further, the time frame for
   doing the work has been shortened by 15 years.

   The Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan is "Our Road Map for Excellence in
   Environmental Restoration and Employee / Community Transition". This
   plan is available to read online. To view our Stategic Plan and it's
   accompanying Performance Measures Matrix, follow the links below.
   Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan 1997- 2005
   Performance Measures Matrix

   Latest News

   Ohio Field Office Technical Support RFP, Amendments and Model Contract
   Solicitation Number DE-RP24-01OH20130 and Contract Number
   DE-AM24-01OH20130.
   Please Click here to review and download.

   DOE Awards Fernald Closure Contract to Fluor Fernald, Inc.
   See press release here.

   ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION ILLNESS IMAGE

   HELP FOR SICK ENERGY DEPARTMENT WORKERS
   Were you employed by the Department of Energy or its contractors? Do
   you suffer from: cancer caused by radiation, beryllium disease, or
   silicosis? You may be eligible for compensation of $150,000. Surviving
   spouses and eligible dependents may also qualify. To find out more
   contact the Department of Labor at
   www.dol.gov/dol/esa/public/regs/compliance/owcp/eeoicp/main.htm

   If you are ill from some other disease that you think was caused by
   your your Energy Department employment and seek help to obtain
   compensation under State Workers Compensation, contact
   tis.eh.doe.gov/advocacy.

Vertical Spacer Vertical Spacer
                Vertical Bar GIF
                Link to Home

                                                What We Do | Site Info | Job Vacancies
                                                      Doing Business | Technology

                                                         Our Mailing Address:
                                                       U.S. Department of Energy
                                                           Ohio Field Office
                                                             P.O. Box 3020
                                                      Miamisburg, Ohio 45343-3020

                                                    Please forward all comments to:
                                                 Diane Aplin, Office of Public Affairs
                                                       diane.aplin@ohio.doe.gov
                                                            (937) 865-3878

                Vertical Bar GIF
                Vertical Spacer

                                                        Link to www.energy.gov

                                This page last updated: 9/26/01
