http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov


   Click here to return to the Operations main page Click here to return
   to the Operations main page

        Travel Management Transportation Operations Freight Management ITS
   image line

   What's Recent
   News Releases
   Speeches
   Operations Staff
   Overview
   Arterials Toolbox
   Emergency  Mgmt.
   Incident Mgmt.
   Traveler Info.
   Traffic Analysis
   Traffic Control
   Safety Office
   Work Zone
   Related Links
   Weekly Report
   Road Weather Mgmt.
   Site Map
   Index
   Search



   What's New

     FHWA issues a Notice for preliminary applications from public/public
   or public/private partnerships for participation in the fiscal year
   2003 ITS integration program, with a focus on enhancing the security of
   the surface transportation systems. Applications are requested by April
   1, 2002.

     FHWA 2001 Report to the American People

     DOT seeks public agency applications for "511 Model Deployment" by
   March 18.

     The Rural ITS Safety CD is now available. To order documents, send
   email to itspubs@fhwa.dot.gov

     FHWA releases report on Organizing for Regional Operations. News
   Release.

     FHWA Recognizes Outstanding Traveler Information Websites

     FHWA Announces Intelligent Transportation System Tests to facilitate
   Freight Movement.

     New: Proceedings of the National Summit on Transportation Operations

     New! National Operations Dialogue White Papers Available.(These
   papers contain charts. Text-only are available through the web master.

     "FORETELL: Finally, Someone is Doing Something About the Weather", by
   Paul Pisano

     Advanced Rural Transportation System CD-ROM now available.

     Federal Highway Chief Schimmoller places landmark first call to "511"
   in Kentucky

     Roadway Operations Self-Assessment - A new tool to help agencies
   measure and improve the effectiveness of their operations and
   management activity

     HOT OFF THE PRESS! ITS Resource Guide 2001 now available online. To
   order your personal copy of the Guide and the new Traveler Information
   video, click here.

     Field Test Announcement, Pedestrian Safety Engineering and
   Intelligent Transportation System-based Countermeasure Program for
   Reducing Pedestrian Fatalities, Injuries, Conflicts and other Surrogate
   measures

     Field Test of Variable Speed Limits in Work Zones: Request for
   Application

     Recruiting for a Rural ITS Specialist

     The online ITS Benefits and Unit Costs database has been updated.

     FHWA survey of public opinion about roads and transportation in
   communities


      MUTCD logo Millennium MUTCD, the definitive guide to traffic signs and
      signals in the U.S. was published as a final rule in the Federal
      Register on December 18, 2000. Click here for the Millennium MUTCD. The
      Internet version of the MUTCD is the primary outreach and education
      medium for the FHWA. Hard copies of the MUTCD will be available in
      Spring 2001 through national organizations. Ordering information will
      be posted on the "Publication Services" page of the MUTCD web site.

      Transportation Information Sources

      National Dialogue Logo National Dialogue on Transportation Operations
        *

                           Electronic National Dialogue
                                   (e-Dialogue)

      Customer Satisfaction Survey at DOT
      Section 508



   New! Toll-Free "Help Line"
   866-367-7487
   Need technical support? You've surfed the web; you've searched the
   library and still can't find what you're looking for? Call our
   toll-free "help line" at 866-367-7487.
   Or you can send e-mail to: itshelp@fhwa.dot.gov




                     image line
   Federal Highway Administration Operations Unit
   DOT Logo U.S. Department of Transportation
   400 7th Street, S.W., HOP
   Washington, DC 20590
   Toll-Free "Help Line" (866)367-7487

    FHWA Home | Operations CBU Home
    Privacy & Disclaimer Statement

                                   spacer
                          Updated 08 November, 2001
