http://info.gov


    Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                              Text Version
                                Site Map
                             Privacy Policy
                           Security Statement

   Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.


                      America Responds to Terrorism
    FCIC has put together a list of publications to help you and your
   family during this difficult time. Read more on Coping with Crisis.

              Image of man on a phone ask U.S.  1-800-FED-INFO
     Have a question about Federal programs, benefits, or services? Each
   year, our staff handles millions of calls from citizens who are trying
        to find that elusive answer to their question. We've gathered
         information and resources to help you get the right answer.

                       Our Frequently Asked Questions:
   Social Security Medicare and Medicaid Privacy
   Federal Loans Congress Travel Abroad
   Federal Grants Consumer Topics Finding Military Personnel
   Freedom of Information Recalls The Draft
   Work Place Issues Savings Bonds Presidential Greetings
   Federal Employment Government Publications Order a Flag

                              Useful Resources:
   Search our database FirstGov for Kids Contact the Bush Administration
   Solve Consumer Problems Federal Toll-free numbers Contact Your Senator
   Federal Press Release Gateway Federal Agency Telephone Directories
   Contact Your Representative

   Your topic isn't here? If you haven't tried FirstGov, you should. With
   over 47 million Federal web pages indexed and organized by topic area,
       it's a great first click to government information on the web.

   If you would rather ask your question personally, call us toll-free at
   1 (800) FED-INFO (TTY 1-800-326-2996) between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. eastern
   time. Our staff can answer your question or get you to someone who can.

   Last Updated: December 20, 2001

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
