http://www.governor.texas.gov


   skip to content | News and Information | The Governor | The Office |
   Contact | Priorities | StateSite| Texas Online | Privacy Policy |
   Appointments| Press Releases | Employment


   Governor Rick Perry About the Governor | Press Releases | Appointments
   Division | Employment Opportunities|


                    Official Photo of Governor Rick Perry
                             Governor Rick Perry
                     47th Governor of the State of Texas

                   Governor Outlines Priorities For Texans
                              Higher Education
                               Transportation
                                 Technology
                                 The Border

                       Read about Texas' reactions to
                        the tragedy of September 11th


   Homeland Security Task Force
   Governor Rick Perry has created a Governor's Task Force on Homeland
   Security to advise him on matters relating to homeland security. Next
   meeting is scheduled for January 31, 2002. Read the Media Advisory.

   Read More about the Homeland Security Task Force...

   Current News
   January 25, 2002 - Governor Announces May 4 Special Election Date For
   Senate District 22
   Read the Proclamation
   Read the Press Release
   January 17th- Science and Biotechnology Development Council -Governor
   Perry announced the formation of the Governor's Council of Science and
   Biotechnology Development. The Council will create a seamless system of
   innovation from the laboratory to the marketplace.
   Read the Executive Order
   Read the Press Release
   View the Members of the Council
   Read through Proclamations and Executive Orders
   January 14th - Domestic Preparedness
   Governor Rick Perry today announced that 95 Texas cities and counties
   will receive a total of $11.7 million as part of the State Domestic
   Preparedness Equipment Program of the U.S. Department of Justice's
   Office for Domestic Preparedness
   Read the press release about the Grant...

   Math Initiative Release - Sept. 24
   Convinced that Texas students will need strong math skills to meet new
   graduation requirements and compete in a global economy, Gov. Rick
   Perry and the Texas Education Agency today debut a website that
   showcases the latest information available through the Texas Math
   Initiative.
   Read More...

                                 star banner


     State of Texas Get Acrobat bar State of Texas bar Texas On Line bar
                     Access Adobe bar Privacy Policy bar
   Best viewed with Internet Explorer or Netscape 4.+ or above. ©Office of
   the Governor The images on the web site are copyrighted and may not be
                                 downloaded.
