http://www.ocrm.nos.noaa.gov

   Welcome to the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management

                               Welcome to the
               Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management

     The office responsible for administering the Coastal Zone Management
     Act and a leader on the Nation's coastal, estuarine and ocean
     management issues.

     This Web site provides information for coastal resource managers,
     planners, educators, scientists, and others interested in balancing
     the conservation and development of our Nation's coastal, estuarine
     and ocean resources.

   About the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management About OCRM
   Who we are, what we do, and how to contact us.

   What's Happening at OCRM What's Happening
   Current events occurring within the Office or its programs.

   Coastal Resource and Policy Issues Coastal Resource and Policy Issues
   Major issues facing coastal managers today, such as polluted runoff,
   sustainable communities, and habitat restoration.

   Outreach, Publications and Resources Resources, Publications and
   Outreach
   Products and information for managers and the public.

   Coastal Zone Management Act Coastal Zone Management Act
   The law that created the nation's coastal management program and the
   National Estuarine Research Reserve system.

   Coastal Zone Management Program Coastal Zone Management Program
   The official Web site for this voluntary federal-state partnership,
   with links to its 34 participating coastal states and territories.

   The National Estuarine Research Reserves National Estuarine Research
   Reserve System
   The official Web site for this network of protected areas, with links
   to its participating research reserves.

   The Cooperative Institute for Coastal and Estuarine Environmental
   Technology The Cooperative Institute for Coastal and Estuarine
   Environmental Technology
   The official Web site for this national center for the development and
   application of innovative environmental technologies for estuaries and
   coastal waters.

   Site Map Site Map / Site Index
   Navigate easily to the information that is most important to you.

   Return to top

    Ocean and Coastal Resource Management  |  Coastal Zone Management  |
       National Estuarine Research Reserves  |  Marine Protected Areas

      National Ocean Service     |     National Oceanic and Atmospheric
               Administration     |     Department of Commerce

   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Logo Revised: January
   27, 2002
   Please report problems found on this page to the webmaster .
   Privacy Statement
   URL: http://www.ocrm.nos.noaa.gov/
