http://www.paulding.gov


                               [paulding.jpg]

                                [welcome.jpg]

                                 [line1.gif]


   Welcome to the Paulding County Georgia Official Web Site. Our site is a
   unique collaboration of the Paulding County Commission and the Paulding
   County Chamber of Commerce. We have created one of the most
   comprehensive Community resources available anywhere. Whether you are a
   life-long resident, a welcomed newcomer, or just looking for
   information about our county, we trust you will find all you need to
   know either on our site, or through the references and resources listed
   here:

   Paulding County Chamber of Commerce
   Paulding County Government
   Paulding County School System

   Hello...
   We're glad you're here!  These are greetings you'll hear often in this
   metro Atlanta county called Paulding. More than words, they're a
   barometer of the warm reception that visitors to our beautiful county
   receive.  We consider our home to be the best of both worlds --
   abounding with the assets of both rural and urban life. Newcomers have
   found a lifestyle here worth writing home about!

   But our attention to detail and making newcomers feel at home doesn't
   stop there. Local access to 21st Century medical care, a quality
   educational system, economic development recruitment, an affordable
   selection of housing, retail outlets, civic and athletic organizations,
   and easy accessibility to Atlanta, make Paulding great place to call
   home.

   Paulding County is a melting pot of cultural, educational and civic
   contributions.  Its people-the greatest asset any community can
   have-hail from down the road, across the country, and from around the
   world.

   Paulding people are talented, tireless and energetic individuals. They
   give of themselves, in order to create for themselves and their
   community, an atmosphere that makes Paulding County great. It's the
   ideal place to begin each day with possibility; and the perfect place
   to come home to, at the end of a hard day's work.

                          Welcome, you are visitor
                                 Hit Counter



                     Paulding County Chamber of Commerce
                         Paulding County Government
                        Paulding County School System
                      Privacy Statement | Terms of Use

                   Paulding County Board of Commissioners
                     Paulding County Chamber of Commerce
                         455 Jimmy Campbell Parkway
                              Dallas, GA  30132
                            Phone: (770) 445-6016
                            EMail: Commissioners
                          Copyright © 1998 - 2000
