http://www.aos.tc.faa.gov

                                    [logo.jpg]


   Main | Employee Resources | Organizational Pages | Links

                         Welcome to the WJHTC AOS Website!

      [faaplane.jpg]

      Airway Operational Support (AOS) is a division of the Federal Aviation
      Administration an is responsible for the maintenance and operational
      support of the National Airspace System (NAS). We service everything
      from the radar that tracks the aircraft to the systems that air traffic
      controllers use to keep everyone safe and organized in the skies. This
      is the internet home of those divisions of AOS located at the William J
      Hughes Technical Center in Atlantic City, NJ. To access the main AOS
      page, click here.


                                                         The AOS Mission..
          "Centralized operational support is our business. As the primary
      organization authorized to make changes to commissioned systems, the
      mission of AOS is to provide centralized operational support for all
            aspects of the National Airspace System (NAS). The AOS goal of
   continuous availability of all NAS-related services is achieved through
                            the highest level of FAA technical expertise."


      What's New on the AOS Web?

      Changes, Changes...
      As you can see, we have changed the AOS Web Site look and feel. The
      site is now better organized and complies with the AOS Web Design
      Policy issued June 10, 1999. Previously, both the Internet and Intranet
      resources were melded into one website, whereas now, we have seperated
      the two. If you wish to visit the AOS Intranet site, proceed to the
      Employee Resources section, and click on the link provided there.

      Can't Find What You're Looking For?
      As a result of the seperation of the Internet and Intranet web pages,
      alot of users are having trouble finding the pages they need. If you
      cannot find the page you need here, try the Intranet Page.
      Warning Notice:
      DOT Policy on the use of Cookies

                                    Disclaimer
