http://www-sage1.larc.nasa.gov

   [SAGE-I-logo.gif]

                                      [SAGE-1%20Re-Analysis%20Project.gif]

Overview

   Measurements of ozone and aerosol by the Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas
   Experiment (SAGE I) span a period (1979-1981) prior to significant
   increases in human-derived stratospheric reactive chlorine and a period
   noted for very low stratospheric aerosol loading. These data are a
   valuable tool for understanding the onset of heterogeneous processes
   that have led to significant decreases in ozone, particularly in the
   lower stratosphere, since that time. Unfortunately, problems are known
   to exist with the current publicly archived version of the data,
   particularly associated with ephemeris and altitude registration
   calculations. In order to improve the value of the SAGE I data set to
   the atmospheric sciences community, the SAGE I processing algorithm is
   being updated to correct these problems. The algorithm is also being
   modified to reflect an improved understanding of instrument
   performance, to improve species separation, and to update correlative
   spectroscopic and atmospheric databases.

Elements

   Several independent investigations into SAGE I/II ozone trends conclude
   that the SAGE I data retrieval has a seasonally and spatially dependent
   altitude registration error relative to SAGE II [Wang and Cunnold,
   1996]. At this time, there is at least one "unofficial" SAGE I data set
   which has been empirically corrected for this altitude bias, and other
   less sophisticated corrections have been applied in some revised ozone
   trend estimates. The accuracy of SAGE I altitude registration is
   limited by the generally poor quality (compared to SAGE II) of the
   platform ephemeris data. In the original processing code, altitude
   registration was supplemented by the high altitude measurements in the
   385 nm channel where measured molecular scattering could be matched to
   a model temperature/pressure profile. Based upon the engineering model
   of the SAGE I instrument, it is now believed that 385-nm channel may
   actually have been centered near 382 nm. We hope to improve altitude
   registration by revising the meteorological data used to estimate the
   Rayleigh scattering contribution and by improving the orbital ephemeris
   of SAGE I. Part of this effort will focus on re-assessing the central
   wavelength of the nominal 385-nm channel.

   A number of calibration issues, including scan mirror calibration and
   electronic transients, have been addressed in the 13+ years of data
   obtained with the SAGE II instrument. Similar effects may be present in
   the SAGE I data set, but have never been investigated. In fact,
   calibration deficiencies may explain why SAGE I has reported a more
   limited altitude range of coverage for ozone than that of SAGE II since
   they act to reduce the quality of the retrievals at the extremes of the
   altitude range. We will investigate these effects for SAGE I as part of
   this project.

   We will also attempt to improve the species seperation algorithm. While
   this is a very clean period relative to aerosol, the measurement of
   nitrogen dioxide is difficult and can probably be improved. In
   addition, improvements in the spectroscopy of all of the species
   measured by SAGE I will improve the quality of the ozone and aerosol
   products.

   The ultimate goal of this work is to transform the SAGE I retrieval
   algorithm into a process more closely linked to the SAGE II algorithm.
   In fact, we wish to produce a SAGE I processing code that utilizes a
   substantial amount of the SAGE II code. In doing so, we will assure
   that future improvements to either code result in simultaneous,
   tractable improvements in both data sets. Additionally, new techniques
   being developed for SAGE III will be considered for use in this effort.

   Periodic progress reports will be posted at this site.

Personnel

   Larry W. Thomason, Principal Investigator
   Atmospheric Sciences Division
   Mail Stop 475
   NASA Langley Research Center
   Hampton, Virginia 23681
   Phone: 757-864-6842
   FAX: 757-864-2671
   E-Mail: l.w.thomason@larc.nasa.gov


   Joseph M. Zawodny
   Atmospheric Sciences Division
   Mail Stop 475
   NASA Langley Research Center
   Hampton, Virginia 23681
   Phone: 757-864-2681
   FAX: 757-864-2671
   E-Mail: j.m.zawodny@larc.nasa.gov


   Randal L. VanValkenburg
   Atmospheric Sciences Division
   Mail Stop 475
   NASA Langley Research Center
   Hampton, Virginia 23681
   Phone: 757-864-7933
   FAX: 757-864-2671
   E-Mail: r.l.vanvalkenburg@larc.nasa.gov

   Top

   Last updated: 21-Sep-1998. NASA Langley Research Center - Aerosol
   Research Branch
