http://hurricanes.noaa.gov


   NOAA Banner
   Click here for NOAA home page.

   Click here for site map.

   Click here for contacts page.

   Click here to search NOAA sites.


   Hurricanes

   Hurricanes: Nature's Greatest Storms
   NOAA's NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER - maintains a continuous watch on
   tropical cyclones over the Atlantic, Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico and the
   Eastern Pacific from May 15 through November 30. The Center prepares
   and distributes hurricane watches and warnings for the general public,
   and also prepares and distributes marine and military advisories for
   other users. During the "off-season" NOAA's Hurricane Center provides
   training for U.S. emergency managers and representatives from many
   other countries that are affected by tropical cyclones. The Center also
   conducts applied research to evaluate and improve hurricane forecasting
   techniques, and is involved in public awareness programs.

   The Center is located on the campus of Florida International University
   in southwestern Dade county in Miami, Fla.

   Hurricane Landfall Experiment 2001 - The 2001 Hurricane Field Program
   is the fourth year of a renewed multi-agency effort to unravel the
   mysteries of these devastating storms over the next 5-6 years. This is
   part of the U.S. Weather Research Program, which is focused on reducing
   the impacts of disastrous weather on the United States, in particular
   hurricane landfall.

   NOAA's CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER - issues tropical cyclone
   warnings, watches, advisories, discussions, and statements for all
   tropical cyclones in the Central Pacific from 140 Degrees West
   Longitude to the International Dateline.

   The Central Pacific Hurricane Center is located in NOAA's National
   Weather Service Forecast Office in Honolulu, Hawaii.

   NOAA's ATLANTIC OCEANOGRAPHIC AND METEOROLOGICAL LABORATORY - Its
   mission is to conduct a basic and applied research program in
   oceanography, tropical meteorology, atmospheric and oceanic chemistry,
   and acoustics. The program seeks to understand the physical
   characteristics and processes of the ocean and the atmosphere, both
   separately and as a coupled system. The lab is home to NOAA's Hurricane
   Research Division.

   DAILY COLOR SATELLITE IMAGES ATLANTIC OCEAN STORMS - You can find links
   to satellite imagery for other regions of the world, such as the
   Eastern Pacific Ocean.

   Satellite Images of Severe Storm Sectors - These are NOAA GOES
   satellite images pointed over event areas. These sectors change from
   time to time.

   Satellite Images of Hurricane Regions - These images are from NOAA's
   GOES satellites.

   Archived Satellite Images, Storm Animations and Special Events
   - You will find hundreds of selected satellite images capturing some of
   the more important weather and environmental events over the last 30
   years.

   CoastWatch Products - These are NOAA GOES satellites images of various
   coastal sectors. You can see infrared (IR) or visual (VIS) versions of
   these images. Note that the visual images can only be seen during
   daylight hours.

   Pronunciation of Western North Pacific and South China Sea Cyclones -
   The Hong Kong Observatory provides the pronunciations of these storms
   through the use of Real Audio.

   Latest Satellite Imagery


   Click here for East Coast satellite image.
   East Coast

   Click here for West Coast satellite image.
   West Coast

   Click here for Alaska satellite image.
   Alaska

   Click here for Hawaii satellite image.
   Hawaii

   Click here for Puerto Rico satellite image.
   Puerto Rico

   Click here for Atlantic hurricane region satellite image.
   Atlantic
   Hurricane
   Region

   Click here for Pacific hurricane region satellite image.
   Pacific
   Hurricane
   Region

   Click here for Gulf of Mexico hurricane satellite image.
   Gulf Coast
   Hurricane
   Region

   NOAA's National Weather Service Products

   Click here for radar image of USA.
   U.S.
   Click here for animated radar image of USA.
   U.S. - 6 Hr Animated Click here for 6-10 day outlook and image of USA.
   6-10 Day
   Outlook Click here for USA 24 hour surface forecast map.
   24 Hr
   Surface Forecast

   3-D Satellite Products

               Click here for NOAA's visualization lab.
   Latest 3-D Visualizations from
   NOAA's Visualization Laboratory

   Click here for Northern and Southern Hemisphere satellite image.
                              Northern &
                               Southern
                             Hemispheres

   spacer

   line
   News
   line

     * 2001 Atlantic Hurricane Season Continues Trend for Heightened Storm
       Activity; U.S. Goes Two Straight Seasons Without A Direct Hurricane
       HitA New Record
     * NOAA Scientists Say Active Hurricane Era Will Continue
     * See animations of the year 2000 hurricane season and B-Roll of
       NOAA's "Hurricane Hunter" aircraft. You'll need Real Player to view
       it.
     * News Story Archive

   line
   Hot Topics
   line

     * Hurricane Basics
     * Hurricane Hunters
     * Gulfstream-IV "Hurricane Hunter" Jet
     * Storm Names
     * Aircraft Reconnaissance
     * Tracking Models
     * Retired Hurricane Names
     * 2000 Hurricanes
     * 1999 Hurricanes
     * 1998 Hurricanes
     * Hurricane Dynamics

   line
   Products
   line

     * 25 Story Ideas
     * Frequently Asked Questions
     * "Hurricane Basics" Brochure in PDF
     * Billion Dollar U.S. Weather Disasters
     * Converting UTC or Zulu Time
     * Natural Disaster Reduction Initiative
     * Hurricane Media Central
     * Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale
     * American Red Cross Hurricane Season Calendar
     * FEMA Preparedness Guide

   line
   Organizations
   line

     * National Hurricane Center
     * Hurricane Research Division
     * National Weather Service
     * National Centers for Environmental Prediction
     * National Weather Service Public Affairs Office
     * National Weather Service Office of Climate, Water and Weather
       Services
     * Climate Prediction Center
     * Miami - South Florida Forecast Office
     * Tropical Analysis and Forecast Branch
     * Technical Support Branch
     * USA Weather Forecast Offices

   spacer

   spacer

   line

   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
   Last Updated: 11/29/01

   spacer
