http://www.bts.gov/transtu/cft/

   Skip to Content

                            [USEMAP:topbar6.gif]

   U.S. Department of Transportation
   The Changing Face of Transportation

   Front cover of The Changing Face of Transportation

   Table of Contents
   (PDF Version)
   Table of Contents
   (Individual Chapter Downloads)

   (Final Edition)
   Enormous changes have occurred in transportation over the last 25
   years—changes that have dramatically altered our lives and reverberated
   throughout our society. A quarter century ago, William T. Coleman, Jr.,
   then Secretary of Transportation, opened an extraordinary window into
   the lives of Americans. In a 1977 report, National Transportation
   Trends and Choices, he used the knowledge of the past to look into the
   future and set about to create a transportation planning and decision
   framework to guide that future.
   As stewards of America’s transportation system, the U.S. Department of
   Transportation (USDOT) must remain vigilant in the face of change, and
   visionary in planning for the future. As Secretary Coleman said, "our
   national transportation system is too inextricably linked to external
   developments and too pervasive in our society to enable us to build for
   the future without fully evaluating the potential consequences of the
   decisions we make today.” We recognize that the transportation system
   is about more than concrete, asphalt, and steel; it is about people and
   their daily lives. It is about their dreams and aspirations, their
   connection to the economy and to each other–transportation is the tie
   that binds. And we know that to be effective, it must be international
   in reach, intermodal in form, intelligent in character, and inclusive
   in service.

   As we take stock of the challenges we face, USDOT has embraced a
   decision making process that ensures the public’s interests are served,
   and that the public is involved in the process. How is this process
   different than others before it? The key is a tenacious focus on
   outcomes–beyond inputs, activities, and outputs–and a commitment to
   measure our performance against the outcome goals we set.

   Rather than sitting back and relishing our successes, we are committed
   now to move from strength to strength, taking our planning process to a
   new level with the Policy Architecture to guide decision making for the
   next 25 years. As a companion document to this report, the Policy
   Architecture will help translate the trends we see into choices for the
   future. Thus, we stand on the shoulders of those who have gone before
   us, those who carved the path in National Transportation Trends and
   Choices 25 years ago. While this report shines a light on the past 25
   years, we are keenly aware that “past is prologue,” as we aim to use
   this knowledge to guide our future.

                               BTS Navigation
