http://jncorlett.lbl.gov/About%20Personal%20WebSharing.htm

   Important Information

   About Mac OS Personal Web Sharing 1.5.2


   Welcome to Mac OS Personal Web Sharing! This "read me" document
   contains late-breaking information about setting up and using your Web
   server.

   To install Personal Web Sharing, double-click the WebScript icon. To
   set up your Web server, see the instructions in "Using Personal Web
   Sharing" in the Web Pages folder (which is created when the software is
   installed) at the root level of your hard disk.

    New Features:

   Personal Web Sharing 1.5.2 contains the following new features: alias
   support, upload capability to server, auto flat compression of files
   for upload or download, ability to copy 'my address' from control
   panel, and new Preferences window for: port number, activity log,
   interface to add/edit/delete cgi's and MIME type.

   Please read the "Using Personal Web Sharing" html document for further
   information.

   System Requirements:

   Mac OS 8.5 or later; Open Transport 2.0 or later; PPC computer. 16mb
   RAM.

    Known Problems:

   ¥ To enhance performance, BinHex or compress the files that are greater
   than 20MB with an application like Alladin's Drop Stuff® before putting
   them in your Web Pages folder.

   ¥ To avoid possible conflicts with PC Exchange, do not select DOS
   formatted media as the Web Pages folder. It is recommended that you
   create an alias to the DOS formatted media on your Mac OS formatted
   volume in your Web Pages folder.

   ¥ Be certain that File Exchange is installed before opening the Log
   file from the Personal Web Sharing control panel. Otherwise, open the
   Log file from the Finder or any Text editor.

   ¥ Some Web browsers may print an incomplete version of the file "Using
   Personal Web Sharing" which contains the instructions for setting up
   and using a Web server on your computer. If your browser skips some
   content when it prints the document, copy the text that isn't printed
   and paste it into another application, such as SimpleText or a word
   processing program, and then print the text from that program.

   ¥ In extremely rare cases when sharing a large number of items in a
   folder, a Personal NetFinder view may run out of memory. The Web Client
   will get the error "The server could not complete the request at this
   time because of limited resources (such as out of memory or disk
   space)." Select the "Preferences" item in the Edit menu of the Web
   Sharing Control Panel and increase the Memory Allocation for the server
   to remedy this error.


   Thanks and enjoy!

   - Personal Web Sharing team.


   © 1996-98 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Mac and the Mac OS
   logo are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. used under license.

   Updated 8/98
