http://wags.gsfc.nasa.gov/approach.html

   clear clear clear
   wags grpahic approach page clear
   site links

   Web Applications:
   We employ a standard rapid prototype software design methodology in
   building our web applications. They are based on a generic process
   model and a reusable library of code. Both the model and the code are
   extended and modified as needed to build new applications or modify
   existing applications. (more)

   Web Sites and User Interfaces:
   We blend a unique mix of art and technology in developing websites and
   user interfaces. We strive to build visually attractive sites that are
   usable and functional. A successful Web site or User Interface requires
   a process similar to developing software. Our process follows the
   software design life cycle with some additions specific to web site and
   user interface design (more)

   Top of Page
   Web Application Development Process
   WAGS uses existing, proven Internet tools, including the Web and email,
   together with simple SQL databases. These elements are combined, using
   the Common Gateway Interface (CGI) programming language, to produce
   powerful work-flow Internet applications. The result is applications
   that turn time- and event-driven management processes into more
   efficient, better-organized computer-supported-cooperative work.
   To develop these efficient programs quickly, WAGS identified common
   subsystem areas and then developed a generic AFPS application
   architecture that can be followed again and again to rapidly develop
   new, customized applications.

   PHASE ONE: Requirements Gathering
   During this phase of development, we work with you to understand your
   plans and goals for your online application. We evaluate your current
   application, if you have one, and work with you to develop a framework
   that best suits your needs. Based upon your needs and schedule, pricing
   is established.

   PHASE TWO: Work Flow Analysis
   Once we have a good understanding of what you need from your
   application and what your goals are, we analyze your work flow to
   determine the most efficient organizational structure and we begin
   preliminary application design.

   PHASE THREE: Customization and Coding
   Once we have a solid preliminary application, we hone the application
   to create a strong, polished, and smoothly integrated package. This may
   include working closely with our on-staff graphics design team to give
   you a smooth and pleasing user interface.

   PHASE FOUR: Testing/Verification
   WAGS will help you transfer your application to your server (in a
   development area) and will work with you to test the application. Or,
   we may turn over this process to your own web/technical staff,
   depending upon your requirements and security and/or technical issues.
   Final testing is best done while the site is on the intended web
   server. (Note: Some of our applications may come with hosting
   services.)

   PHASE FIVE: Training
   We can provide your technical team and/or users with training to
   enhance maintenance and use of the application. Our applications are
   extensively commented, but, some clients’ staff find an orientation
   session helpful.

   PHASE SIX: Follow-On Work
   WAGS can also provide some server/application maintenance services in
   addition to feature enhancement and application updates. Please inquire
   about this level of service. In addition, once your "base" application
   is established we can help you keep abreast of new technology and to
   constantly improve your application.
   Top of Page

   Website and UI Development Process
   To build the framework of your site, ( which includes the information
   structure, navigation structure and supporting visual/graphical
   structure ), a set of templates is designed and built with html,
   possibly perl and javascript and custom graphics. The use of "visually
   related" templates gives your site consistency and usability, as well
   as a professional look and feel.
   This templating approach is faster in the long run because it does not
   require every page of the site to be designed from scratch. Typically
   we will design intro level, first tier and detail page templates taht
   handle 90% or more of your page layout and navigation needs. However,
   this method does require more work up front and it requires careful
   site planning from the beginning of the project.
   Often from there, we suggest that your team take over the web
   maintenance job — you are closer to and more familiar with your own
   content and audience. We will train your web developers to use the
   templates that we design for your site.

   To accomplish this task we go through these phases:

   PHASE ONE: Requirements Gathering
   During this phase of development, we work with you to understand your
   plans and goals for your Web site. We evaluate your current site, if
   you have one, and work with you to develop a site framework that best
   suits your needs. Based upon your needs and schedule, pricing is
   established.

   PHASE TWO: Idea Generation
   Once we have a good understanding of what you need from your site and
   what your goals are, in addition to your "look and feel" preferences,
   we analyze your site content to determine efficient organizational
   structure (user interface design) and begin a preliminary set of design
   ideas.

   PHASE THREE: Design Exploration
   Once we have a solid preliminary direction, we iterate upon the design
   to create a strong, polished, and smoothly integrated package. This
   includes creating third level page designs (and beyond, depending upon
   the scope of the project and size of the site), formulating preliminary
   designs for the "splash" page, and honing the site navigation and
   informational structures.

   PHASE FOUR: Design Prototyping
   Using your selected design, we then create a web site prototype. This
   limited-functionality site includes a completely designed and
   structured web site framework, but does not include programming and
   other additional features. Using this prototype you will be able to get
   a feel for the web site’s workflow and usability.

   PHASE FIVE: Design Production
   In this phase, we build your entire site or site templates, including
   the extended features – scripts, CGI, animations, etc. – you requested.

   PHASE SIX: Testing/Verification
   WAGS will help you transfer your site to your server (in a development
   area) and will work with you to test the site. Or, we may turn over
   this process to your own web/technical staff, depending upon your
   requirements and security and/or technical issues. Final testing is
   best done while the site is on the intended web server.

   PHASE SEVEN: Hand-Off and Training
   We can provide your web team with site/template training to enhance
   maintenance and ongoing population of the site. Our templates are
   extensively commented, but, some clients’ staff find an orientation
   session helpful. Depending upon site complexity, we may also include a
   site style guide.

   PHASE EIGHT: Follow-On Work
   WAGS can also provide some web site maintenance services in addition to
   ongoing design and design updates. Please inquire about this level of
   service. In addition, once your "base" site is established we can help
   you keep abreast of new technology and to constantly improve your web
   site.

   Top of Page



   Nasa Official: Brian Drake Author/Curator : Steve Sabia  Privacy
   Statement
   functional nasa logo


   clear
