http://mentor.dot.gov/info/webins.html

   DOT Mentoring

                 Information: Mentoring System Instructions
     __________________________________________________________________

   Overview

   Mentors

   Mentees

      This page explains how to use the Secretary's Mentoring System.
    First-time users should click on Overview first for a description of
    the program.

   OVERVIEW

   The DOT Mentoring Program is designed to give employees the opportunity
   to receive career guidance from role models from any organization or
   operating administration in the Department and to subsequently help
   them reach their full potential. The Departmental Mentoring program is
   open to all employees in the Department, both headquarters and field.

   A mentor is one who is genuinely interested in people and has a desire
   to help others. A mentor is a listener, questioner, and adviser. While
   the mentor does not need to have all answers the mentee may seek, he or
   she should be skilled in directing the search for answers.

   A mentee is an individual with a sense of responsibility for his or her
   own growth and of where he or she wants to go. A mentee must have a
   willingness to take feedback constructively and learn. He or she must
   also have a desire to make the organization more effective.

   Before signing up for the mentor program, spend some time considering
   whether a mentoring relationship could be personally and professionally
   beneficial to you. Please understand that the mentoring program is not
   an avenue for automatic promotion of program participants or a vehicle
   for granting special consideration to the mentors and mentees actively
   participating in the program. The mentoring process requires that the
   mentor and mentee work together to reach specific goals and to provide
   each other with sufficient feedback to ensure that goals are reached.

   The following instructions will assist you in filling out your
   application to become a mentor, and assist you in completing the
   necessary search form as a mentee.

   MENTORS

   First Time Registrants:

   If this is your first time registering as a mentor, you must fill out
   the mentor application form. Go to the mentor registration area, choose
   your OA, and provide all information in the fields that are applicable
   to you. (Some of the fields are required, while others are optional.
   However, the more information you provide, the more likely you are to
   be matched with an appropriate mentee.) The form contains several
   drop-down menus to assist you in selecting things such as your grade,
   pay plan, age range, and series. Additionally, the application contains
   three boxes in which you may enter your work skills, interests, and
   hobbies. You may enter up to 250 character in each of these boxes.
   After submitting your information, you will receive a message about
   your approval status. Once you have been approved, you can log in for
   the first time and activate your account. If you are ready to register
   for the first time, click here.

   Revising Your Application:

   If you have registered before and want to modify your application
   information, log in to the mentor area and select "Update Personal
   Information." Change or add information as desired, then click Submit.

   Once you are in the system, mentees will be able to consider you as a
   mentor based on the information you entered and their desired needs.
   They will contact you by whichever method you indicated in the system
   (phone, e-mail, or fax). If you are not contacted immediately, don't be
   discouraged. This is a reasonably new program and it may take some time
   for a match to occur. Your name will be available to prospective
   mentees as long as you have "YES" marked in the application's
   "AVAILABILITY" box.

   Once you are contacted, it is a good idea to first meet with your
   prospective mentee, if that is geographically possible, before entering
   into a mentoring relationship. You should ask your prospective mentee
   to bring along a list of his or her professional skills, interests, and
   hobbies. These subjects can be the starting point for your discussion.
   Remember that the person doesn't need to be exactly like you.
   Successful mentoring relationships often occur between people of
   different genders, ethnic backgrounds, and physical capabilities. In
   time, you will build a trusting relationship that involves being able
   to talk freely to each other. Your initial meeting should be focused on
   understanding what the prospective mentee's objectives are in seeking a
   mentor, and what it is you can help him or her achieve. You may agree
   at the initial meeting to establish a mentoring relationship, or you
   may suggest that both of you give it further consideration.

   MENTEES

   First Time Registrants:

   Before you can search for a mentor, you must fill out the mentee
   application form. Go to the mentee registration area and provide all
   information in the fields that are applicable to you. (Some of the
   fields are required, while others are optional. However, the more
   information you provide, the more likely you are to be matched with an
   appropriate mentor.) The form contains several drop-down menus to
   assist you in selecting things such as your grade, pay plan, age range,
   and series. After submitting your information, you will receive a
   message about your approval status. Once you have been approved, you
   can log in for the first time and activate your account. If you are
   ready to register for the first time, click here.

   Revising Your Application:

   If you have registered before and want to modify your application
   information, log in to the mentee area and select "Update Personal
   Information." Change or add information as desired, then click Submit.

   Finding a Mentor:

   Once your account has been activated, you can search for a mentor.
   Enter your preferences in the search form (the more criteria you enter,
   the more targeted your search will be), and click the Search button.

   A results screen will display the names of everyone who match your
   criteria. If there are no matches, try a new search with fewer
   preferences selected. Click on an individual's name to review a copy of
   his or her profile. If they seem like a good match, contact them via
   the method they specify. Be polite; if the mentor specifies e-mail
   contact, don't phone him or her.

   Before you contact the prospective mentor, you should develop a list of
   things you hope to accomplish while being a mentee. Since the
   prospective mentor may want to get an initial impression for the
   relationship over the phone, you may also want to list some questions
   to ask them. If the prospective mentor would rather meet face to face,
   take your lists along so you will be prepared.

   There is no limitation to the number of times you may search for a
   mentor. You may thus want to consider periodically performing new
   searches, since some mentors may renew their availability, and new
   mentors may register. You may also save your searches as Agents, which
   will automatically search on the criteria you specify and notify you if
   a match is found. To create an Agent, click the Create Agent button at
   the bottom of the search results page.

   Additionally, don't be discouraged if you don't immediately find the
   mentor you are looking for. Like any good relationship, the
   mentor/mentee relationship may take some time to develop.

                         Mentoring System Home Page
