http://bayh.senate.gov/privpolicy.htm



                                  seal2.jpg

   Home Biography Key Issues News Room Constituent Services Pictures World
                                Wide Web Mail

                                Quick Search:
                                ____________
                                ( ) Match any
                                     or
                              (*) all keywords
                                   Search!

                                  HeadW.jpg



                               Privacy Policy

   Thank you for visiting my web site and taking the time to read my
   privacy policy. I value the privacy of all Internet users, and I
   appreciate the opportunity to describe to you the policies I have put
   in place to safeguard the privacy of individuals who visit my web site.
   If you have questions or concerns about my Internet privacy policy, I
   hope you will contact me.

   My Internet privacy policy is simple: my web site collects no personal
   information about you unless you choose to provide that information.

   Let me describe more specifically the type of information that may be
   gathered when you visit my web site and how that information is
   handled.

                           The U.S. Senate Server

   My site is hosted by the U.S. Senate Server. The Senate collects
   aggregate data about all visits to Senate web sites, such as which
   parts of each web site were visited most often. The following
   information is collected when you visit any U.S. Senate web site: the
   domain from which you access the Senate web site, the date and time of
   your visit, the pages you visit, and the address of the web site, if
   any, that provided the link from which you reached the Senate site.
   This information is gathered only to enable the Senate to improve its
   online service. No personal information (such as your name) is gathered
   automatically when you visit any Senate web site. To learn more about
   the Senate's Internet security and privacy policy online, please go to
   this address: http://www.senate.gov/security.html.

                                 My Web Site

   Likewise, my web site will not collect any personal information about
   you unless you choose to provide that information. My web site has
   online web forms you can use to send an electronic mail message
   expressing your views or concerns. My office tabulates comments
   received through my web site concerning legislation and government
   policy issues so that I will be fully informed about the views of
   Hoosiers. My web site also includes printable forms you can use to ask
   for assistance with a particular problem involving a federal agency.
   The web-based email form asks for your name, address, and e-mail
   address. I use this information only to reply to your message. This
   information will also be available to members of my staff so they can
   help me in responding to your message or request.

   If you request help with a government agency, it may be necessary for
   my office to share the information you provide with the appropriate
   agency. My office will share no personal information communicated
   through my web site with any outside organization or individual without
   your permission except when performing constituent casework at your
   request, or in the course of an authorized law enforcement
   investigation or an emergency which poses an imminent risk to public
   safety.

                            Links to Other Sites

   My web site has links to other useful sites on the Internet, including
   the sites of other government agencies. If you follow any link that
   takes you to a location that does not include 'senate.gov' in the
   address, you will have left the Senate web server and you will need to
   refer to the privacy policy of that particular site.

   Thank you for visiting my web site. Please come back often!

                     Home Page | Biography | Key Issues
                 Constituent Services | Photos | Contact Me
