http://cirms.tis.doe.gov/news52.html

                                  C I R M S

        The Council on Ionizing Radiation Measurements and Standards

   _______________________________________________________________________
                                ____________

                                 Newsletter

   _______________________________________________________________________
                                _____________

                            Fall 1998 Vol 5, No.2



                 CIRMS Holds Seventh Annual Meeting at NIST

   Highlights Role of National Laboratories in Radiation Measurements and
                                  Standards

   The Council on Ionizing Radiation Measurements and Standards (CIRMS)
   held its seventh annual meeting at the National Institute of Standards
   and Technology in Gaithersburg, MD on October 19-21. The organization
   represents thousands of users of ionizing radiation and radioactive
   sources engaged in industrial radiation processing and sterilization,
   medical radiation diagnostics and therapy, nuclear power generation,
   worker radiation protection, and environmental measurement programs.
   CIRMS provides a forum for discussing ionizing radiation issues;
   identifying, defining and prioritizing needed work; disseminating
   information on standards; and organizing workshops and meetings to
   advance ionizing radiation technology.

   More than 100 participants from 25 corporations, 14 federal and state
   agencies, and seven national laboratories attended the meeting that
   highlighted contributions of federal laboratories in ionizing radiation
   and radioactivity measurements. Papers and posters addressed the
   specialties of the four CIRMS subcommittees: Medical Applications,
   Occupational Radiation Protection, Public and Environmental Radiation
   Protection, and Industrial Applications and Materials Effects. (See
   subcommittee reports on page 6 for additional information.) Don Derr
   gave a report updating the status of the controversy over food
   irradiation. (See page 4 for article.)

   Featured in this year’s meeting were international experts from the
   National Research Council (Canada), Physikalish-Technische
   Bundesanstalt (Germany), the National Measurements Institute (The
   Netherlands), and both the Primary Laboratory for Ionizing Radiation
   and the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (France), who
   provided information on closely related work in their laboratories.

   The annual gathering of the radiation user community is a key element
   of the planning process for government agencies and many of their
   academic and industrial partners. One-on-one interaction, open group
   discussions, and prioritization of the national measurements and
   standards needs through consensus serve to guide their future programs.
   The subcommittees planned several focussed workshops for the coming
   year. The next annual meeting CIRMS99 will be held again at NIST on
   October 13 – 15, 1999.



   Supporting Organizations

   CIRMS would like to acknowledge and thank the following organizational
   members for their continued support of the Council:

   American Association of Physicist in Medicine

   AEA Technology

   American College of Radiology

   Amersham Healthcare

   Best Medical International

   Bicron NE

   Bruker Instruments, Inc.

   Center for Devices and Radiological Health, FDA

   Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors

   DuPont Pharmaceuticals

   Georgia Institute of Technology

   ICN Biomedicals

   International Isotopes

   Ion Beam Applications

   K&S Associates

   Landauer, Inc.

   Los Alamos National Laboratory

   MDS Nordion

   National Aeronautics and Space Administration

   National Institute of Standards and Technology

   National Physical Laboratory, United Kingdom

   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory

   Siemens Environmental Systems

   Southern California Edison

   Theragenics Corporation

   U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command

   U.S. Department of Energy

   U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission

   Membership

   CIRMS is a non-profit organization supported entirely by membership
   dues. There are three membership categories: Corporate - $500;
   Organizational - $250; or Individual - $50.

   Renewal notices are mailed in November. If you do not receive a notice
   by November 25, or if you would like to be added to the CIRMS
   membership list, please contact CIRMS Executive Secretary, Katy Nardi:

   E-mail: katynardi@aol.com

   phone: 770-622-0026

   mail: CIRMS

   P.O. Box 1238

   Duluth, GA 30096

                        A Message from the President

   This past summer and fall has been a very busy time for many of us. Our
   past president and current co-chair of the Medical Subcommittee, Larry
   DeWerd was honored as a Fellow at the 40^th annual meeting of the
   American Association of Physicists in Medicine. I would like to extend
   our congratulations to Larry. Bert Coursey brought a CIRMS annual
   meeting poster and brochures to the AAPM meeting to advertise our
   annual meeting.

   On September 24^th, the executive committee held its annual retreat to
   discuss work on the Second National Needs Report, to do some
   preliminary planning on the workshops for next year and to finalize the
   program for the annual CIRMS meeting. The retreat was followed on
   September 25^th by an excellent workshop organized by Chris Soares,
   NIST, on Radiation Protection Dosimetry. The workshop was interesting
   and well attended.

   The Seventh Annual meeting of CIRMS was held on October 19^th – 21^st
   and was a great success. I believe that this was partially due to the
   change in the format of the Subcommittee meetings and some last minute
   announcements put together by Bert and Katy Nardi to get the word out
   on these changes. This new format was suggested by Tom Heaton, Medical
   Subcommittee Chair and I believe that it will make the first days
   secessions more interesting and attractive for prospective attendees.

   I would like to welcome our new officers. George Xu is now our 1^st
   Vice President, Joe McDonald is our new 2^nd Vice President and John
   Micka (University of Wisconsin) is our new Secretary/Treasurer. Also,
   Tony Berejka has been appointed chair of the Science and Technology
   Committee to replace Joe McDonald. Congratulations, to all of you.

   One of the primary achievements of the last few months before the
   meeting was the completion of the Second National Needs Report and
   distribution at the meeting. This was accomplished by the efforts of
   Joe McDonald, the Subcommittee Chairs Tom Heaton, Ken Swinth, Dave
   McCurdy and Paul Farrell, the contributions of members of each of the
   subcommittees and the extraordinary efforts of Bert Coursey to polish
   and edit the final version of the Report prior to printing. Many thanks
   to all for this job very well done.

   The attendees at the annual CIRMS meeting were welcomed by Bob Loesch,
   President of CIRMS and by Ray Kammer, Director of the NIST. It is of
   interest to note that at the annual meeting of the National Conference
   of Standards Laboratories (NCSL) this past summer Mr. Kammer spoke of
   setting five challenges at NIST to promote the US economy. The first
   and most important of these challenges was "Ensure that U.S. industry
   has the best measurements and standards in the world." The question
   which he raised was "What measurements and standards are needed by
   industry now, and what will industry need in the future?" I believe
   that it is CIRMS role to assist NIST in this challenge by providing
   credible national leadership on future ionizing radiation measurements
   and standards programs. This credibility comes from the diverse
   representation by leaders from academic organizations, private industry
   and government who disseminate, discuss, analyze, formulate and publish
   worthy measurements and standards programs in our National Needs
   Report. Thus, CIRMS is the PATHFINDER of future ionizing radiation
   measurements and standards programs.

   One more item in closing this message to you. On behalf of the
   executive committee and myself I would like to convey our sincerest
   wish to each and every one to have a safe and happy holiday season and
   a prosperous New Year.

   Thomas W. Slowey

   President

                                 About CIRMS

   The Council on Ionizing Radiation Measurements and Standards (CIRMS)
   operates as an incorporated non-profit organization exclusively for
   educational and scientific purposes relevant to the furtherance of
   ionizing radiation measurements and standards. The general purpose of
   CIRMS is to advance and disseminate the physical measurements and
   standards needed for safe and effective technological applications of
   ionizing radiation, and for protection against hazards associated with
   environmental radiation. In the conduct of its various activities,
   CIRMS brings together representatives from academic, professional, and
   industrial organizations, and from governmental departments and
   agencies, as well as interested individuals, involved in nearly every
   aspect of ionizing radiation. A principal CIRMS activity is the
   sponsorship of an annual meeting to disseminate and exchange
   information, to provide a forum for the discussion of common problems
   and issues, and to promote cooperation and communication within the
   radiation measurements community.

   For additional information about the Council and to obtain membership
   applications please write to:

   Council on Ionizing Radiation

   Measurement and Standards

   P.O. Box 1238

   Duluth, GA 30136


         THE STATUS OF FOOD IRRADIATION IN THE UNITED STATES - 1998

   At the 5th Annual meeting of the Council on Ionizing Radiation
   Measurements and Standards (CIRMS) in 1996, Don Derr, USDA retired and
   now a Food Safety Consultant, gave a plenary session address on the
   then status of food irradiation (see the American Chemical Society’s
   weekly C&E News, December 2, 1996). This topic was revisited during the
   Industrial Applications and Materials Effects subcommittee meeting at
   the recent CIRMS meeting. Mr. Derr pointed out that the
   commercialization of irradiated foods is still not yet a complete
   reality, but that considerable progress has taken place to make
   irradiated foods more accessible in the marketplace. Irradiated produce
   and poultry is being sold in relatively small quantities in Florida and
   in several midwestern states. Poultry irradiated by Food Technology
   Service, Inc. of Mulberry, Florida, has a strong local market in
   hospitals and other institutions in Florida. The U.S. market for
   irradiated spices and dried vegetable seasonings as ingredients in
   processed foods continues to expand, going from around 10,000 pounds in
   1993 to about 75,000 pounds last year with an estimate of 100,000
   pounds of these high value ingredients to be irradiation treated in
   1998. This would represent about 10% of the total market for spices and
   dried vegetable seasonings.

   Companies, that have historically been associated with the contract
   radiation sterilization of medical devices, have expanded the use of
   their facilities to deal with increasing volumes of food products.
   SteriGenics uses four of its facilities for food product irradiation.
   Steris-Isomedix has done likewise, dealing with a significant volume,
   about 350,000 pounds, of delicate foodstuffs, such as carambola,
   litchi, papaya, and rambutan for test marketing, with weekly shipments
   being made from plants in Illinois and New Jersey providing irradiated
   foods in limited quantities coast to coast.

   When test marketed, there has been generally excellent consumer
   acceptance of irradiated foods. However, delays in widespread
   commercialization is still attributed to action or inaction by several
   different groups:

   1) The regulatory agencies - for not mandating irradiated foods;

   2) Consumers - for not demanding that more foods are irradiated; and

   3) The food processing industry, both at the wholesale and retail
   level, for not taking greater initiative in food irradiation,
   particularly when public health concerns arise over food borne
   pathogens.

   While there is no regulatory mandate to irradiate food, several U.S.
   regulatory agencies deal with food irradiation. The Food and Drug
   Administration (FDA) is the primary U.S. regulatory agency dealing with
   food irradiation. The FDA sets the criteria for safe use on all foods.
   FDA involvement in food irradiation is mandated by the Federal Food,
   Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), which specifically defines irradiation
   itself as food additives. The use of ionizing irradiation on specific
   foods is also regulated by agencies of the U.S. Department of
   Agriculture (USDA). The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
   (APHIS) regulates quarantine treatment of fruits to prevent
   agricultural infestation by exotic insect pests. The Food Safety and
   Inspection Service (FSIS) regulates implementation of the process for
   meat and poultry to ensure their safety and wholesomeness.

   What are the regulatory agencies doing? Since 1996, the FDA has
   published two new rules. Based on a petition from Steris-Isomedix, in
   December 1997 the FDA amended its regulations to permit the irradiation
   of fresh or frozen uncooked meats to control food borne pathogens and
   to extend product shelf-life, with permissible absorbed doses of 4.5
   kGy for fresh meats and 7.0 kGy for frozen meats. In August 1998, the
   FDA responded to the mandate in the FDA Modernization Act of 1997 by
   amending labeling requirements dealing with the prominence of
   irradiation disclosure statements such that they need not be more
   prominent than declaration of ingredients. This does not, however,
   address use or size of the internationally recognized Radura logo.
   Industry has filed two petitions now pending before the FDA for the
   irradiation of seafood to extend shelf life and to control pathogenic
   microorganism in finfish and shellfish. Unfortunately, the current
   petitioners have not been responsive to the FDA's requests for
   additional information. The National Fisheries Institute (NFI) said
   they would repetition, but has not yet taken action. More recently, a
   petition for the irradiation of shell eggs to control pathogens was
   filed in March 1998 and is still under review by FDA.

   In the USDA, APHIS activities relate to implementation of irradiation
   processing as a quarantine treatment. One new rule was published in
   July 1997 that increases the minimum dose for papayas from 150 Gray to
   250 Gray and now permits the irradiation of litchis and carambolas, in
   addition to papayas. Also, this rule allows the irradiation to take
   place in non-fruit fly supporting areas of the mainland as well as in
   Hawaii, where these fruits are grown. In addition, it amends the
   requirements for irradiation procedures and facilities and the handling
   of treated and untreated fruits. USDA is currently looking at
   commodity-generic absorbed doses for fruit flies that will cover any
   fresh produce items grown in any geographical area that does not serve
   as a host for fruit flies. Dose ranges under consideration are 250 Gray
   for the oriental fruit fly, 230 Gray for the Mediterranean fruit fly,
   210 gray for the melon fly and 150 Gray for all other fruit flies. FSIS
   is encouraging use of irradiation as a means for meeting requirements
   of the new Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
   regulations that place microbiological standards on raw meat and
   poultry products. Generic E. coli testing as a measure of fecal
   contamination began in January 1997. Implementation of the HACCP
   procedures began with large plants in January 1998, with intermediate
   sized plants being required to follow such procedures beginning in
   January 1999. Salmonella reduction standards are also applicable with
   the implementation HACCP procedures. FSIS is still working on
   publishing their proposed rule amending the regulations for red meat
   irradiation. It was promised to be issued in January1998, but is still
   being worked on. FSIS has said they would amend their poultry
   irradiation regulations once the red meat changes are final.

   What are consumer attitudes about food irradiation? Consumer concerns
   over germs in food has increased by 60% over the past 5 years according
   to an FDA telephone survey conducted earlier this year. 55% of those
   contacted consider germs in food to be a serious problem - up from 38%
   in 1993. 16% were concerned about antibiotic resistance - up from 8% in
   1993. 90% were familiar with E. coli O157:H7 & Salmonella problems.
   Consumers said they would buy food labeled as irradiated according to a
   new report by the Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) and the Food
   Marketing Institute (FMI). 80% said they would likely purchase a food
   if labeled "irradiated to kill harmful bacteria." 60% said
   irradiation’s effect on both harmful bacteria and nutrition is "very
   important." The majority was more ready than ever to hear facts about
   irradiated foods - more than 90% say they would trust the medical
   community as source of information followed closely by university
   experts. A July 1998 report released by International Food Information
   Council (IFIC) stated that consumers are skeptical of current food
   safety standards and appear ready to accept irradiation of meats as a
   safe means of pasteurization. This report analyzed the results of
   consumer focus groups conducted in New York, Dallas, and Los Angeles.
   However, its results not statistically valid because only 47 people
   participated. In each city, consumers separated into "aware" and
   "unaware" groups based on prior understanding of irradiation. The
   findings were that a vast majority obtained knowledge of food safety
   from the media, e.g., recent headlines about Hudson Foods recall and
   the "Oprah" lawsuit by the beef industry. The more consumers knew about
   irradiation, the more likely they were to eat irradiated foods. Many,
   who began the study with negative views, changed their minds once they
   learned facts about irradiation. All were adamant about need for
   labeling of irradiated foods. The report concluded that further
   education is needed for full acceptance of irradiated foods. More
   positive articles about irradiation in the popular press also indicate
   a change in public opinion. There have been Wall Street Journal, USA
   Today, and Washington Post print articles on "reconsidering
   irradiation" as solution to food safety problems. Popular media
   magazines have also changed their stance. In May 1998, SELF magazine
   said, "Irradiation could be as big a benefit for health as pasteurized
   milk." Also in May 1998, Better Homes and Gardens called irradiation
   "Meat Safety’s Ray of Hope."

   Finally, what is the industry attitude about irradiation? An August
   1997 article in the trade magazine, Meat and Poultry, says "Irradiation
   gains respectability." Major food industry trade organizations support
   and even encourage irradiation to improve food safety. These include
   the National Food Processors Association, the American Meat Institute,
   and the Farm Bureau Federation, in addition to the GMA and FMI,
   mentioned earlier.

   Many major firms in wholesale and retail food sales are closely
   monitoring the progress of regulations. Some major meat processors are
   very interested in using irradiation to help meet the FSIS's HACCP
   requirements. Other processors are interested in exploring irradiation
   to extend the shelf life of perishables. Fruit growers in Hawaii are
   interested again in using irradiation as a quarantine treatment. In May
   1996, the Hawaii County Council approved spending up to $2 million to
   support the establishment of a commercial irradiation facility on the
   island of Hawaii. Major firms that provide irradiation facilities and
   contract irradiation services are actively courting the food industry.
   Also in 1996, Steris-Isomedix, a provider of contract irradiation
   services, announced that they would construct a facility on the island
   of Hawaii to irradiate Hawaiian fruit for interstate shipment. However,
   progress has been slowed by objections from activists, principally
   related to the safety of such facility from volcanoes, earthquakes and
   tsunamis. Big Islanders will vote on a proposal to prohibit commercial
   irradiation facilities in the election this November (1998). Several
   manufacturers of irradiation equipment have announced the development
   of smaller irradiators that could be accommodated within existing food
   processing facilities. Titan-Scan with its SureBeam , Thomson CSF
   (formerly CGR - MeV) its Sterbox and RPC Technologies its Minilac
   In-Line unit all offer electron beam accelerators for food processing;
   SteriGenics has its MiniCell gamma pool irradiator; and finally there
   is the Gray*Star gamma irradiator.

   What must be done to turn the corner and realize the benefits of food
   irradiation? First, consumers need more information about food
   irradiation. Also, the food industry must become better educated about
   changes in consumer attitudes. The regulatory agencies are now
   cooperating by interpreting regulations broadly whenever possible, but
   additional petitions will be needed to significantly expand the use of
   irradiation. There is some interest in doing such in the following
   areas:

   1) A new seafood petition has been proposed by the NFI.

   2) A petition for high dose (>10 kGy) for shelf stable entrees.

   3) A petition to increase maximum energy of electrons used for
   conversion of electrons to x-rays to make x-rays more competitive with
   gamma sources.

   The bottom line - we still do not know when and to what extent
   irradiated foods will find a market in the US. Only time will tell.
   Derr said that CIRMS should invite him back again in a few years to see
   what has happened by then.

   Don Derr (ddderr@erols.com) - October 19, 1998

                 Science And Technology Subcommittees Meet:

             Review Academic Needs, MPD Status And Hear Speakers

   The four subcommittees of the CIRMS committee on Science and Technology
   met during the annual CRIMS meeting to review the current status of the
   Measurement Program Descriptions and to assess the need for additional
   ones. Each subcommittee also addressed the issue of academic training
   and curriculum in their respective fields. CIRMS First Vice-President,
   Dr. George Xu from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, is heading up a
   task group to address this area. Three of the subcommittees used their
   sessions at the annual meeting to have presentations made on specific
   topics of current interest in their areas.

   The four subcommittees of the Science and Technology Committee are:

   Medical Applications
   – co-chaired by Tom Heaton, FDA Center for Devices and Radiological
   Health (hth@cdrh.fda.gov) and Dr. Larry DeWerd, University of Wisconsin
   (ladewerd@facstaff.wisc.edu).

   Public and Environmental Radiation Protection
   – chaired by Dr. Dave McCurdy, Duke Engineering and Engineering
   Services (demccurd@dukeengineering.com).

   Occupational Radiation Protection
   – chaired by Ken Swinth, Swinth Associates (swinthkl@aol.com).

   Industrial Applications and Materials Effects
   – chaired by Dr. Paul Farrell, the Brookhaven Technology Group
   (pfarrell@BrookhavenTech.com).

   Academic Needs
   : Given the diversity of uses and concerns involving ionizing radiation
   dealt with by CIRMS, it came as no surprise that each subcommittee took
   a slightly different perspective on the academic needs in its area.
   There was, however, a general consensus that a more coherent program on
   radiation science and technology was needed at the upper level
   undergraduate or at the introductory level in graduate programs to
   better prepare students for more detailed and specific courses. In the
   medical area, the American Association of Physicists in Medicine
   (www.aapm.org) has an accreditation program for graduate programs in
   this field. In the area of Occupational Radiation Protection, concern
   was expressed over the lack of growth in this discipline, even though
   personnel working in this area have assumed broader responsibilities
   and now have a greater need for applied information.

   Formal programs include internships at laboratories where such
   specialized know-how can be developed. Practical texts on occupational
   radiation protection are being developed by the Nuclear Energy Agency’s
   Information System on Occupational Exposure, which will be posted on
   the web in several languages by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
   The Public and Environmental Radiation Protection subcommittees, the
   Health Physics Society
   (www.hps.org) collaborates with the American Academy of Health Physics,
   which has a certification program for individuals as well as a
   continuing education program. No such support of academic achievement
   through a complementary organizational framework exists in the
   industrial area, where there continues to be a strong demand for
   trained professionals.

   Measurement Program Descriptions (MPDs): The publication of the second
   CIRMS Report on "National Needs in Ionizing Radiation Measurements and
   Standards" reflects the sustained effort put in by each of the
   subcommittees. Noted is an example of a successfully completed MPD in
   the Medical Applications area, MPD A.1 which lead to the establishment
   of "Air Kerma Standards for Mammography Beams." Also in the Medical
   Applications area, substantial progress was noted on three of the
   initial MPDs in this area: A.2.1 on "Radioactive Standards and
   Techniques for Nuclear Medicine" which is now 40% complete; A.3.1 on
   "High Spatial Resolution Solid State Dosimetry for Radiation Therapy"
   which is also now 40% complete; and A.4.1 on "Absorbed Dose to Water
   Standards for Photon External Beam Radiation Therapy" which is now 95%
   complete. Significant progress has also been made on three of the more
   recent MPDs: A.5 on "Air Kerma Standards for Diagnostic X-ray Beams"
   which is 60% complete; A.6 on "National Air Kerma Strength Standards
   for Photon Brachytherapy" which is also 60% complete; and A.7 on
   "Standardized Dosimetry for Intravascular Brachytherapy Sources" which
   is 50% complete. Given this current level of activity, no new MPDs were
   proposed in the Medical Applications area.

   The Public and Environmental Radiation Protection subcommittee noted
   that substantial progress was made on MPD B.1 on "NIST Traceablity"
   through the publication of American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
   standards supplemented by numerous meetings and presentations on this
   subject. A new MPD B.2 arose by combining two MPDs mentioned in the
   1995 "National Needs Report," which dealt with the "Calibration
   Standards for Field Survey Instruments and Environmental Dosimetry."
   Progress in this area has been made by collaborating with national
   laboratories and ANSI, holding workshops and involvement in the
   Multi-Agency Radiation Survey and Site Investigation (MARSSIM) group.
   MPD B.3 dealing with "Radiation Active Standards for Waste Management
   and Site Remediation" has also shown progress. This is being achieved
   in cooperation with the Sample Management Office at the Department of
   Energy. MPD B.4 dealing with "Atom Counting Measurement Techniques" is
   being moved forward in cooperation with the American Society for
   Testing and Materials (ASTM) and its pertinent committees and
   subcommittees. Through the use of workshops and university
   collaboration, namely with Florida State University, substantial
   progress was also noted for MPD B.5 which deals with the "Speciation of
   Radioactive Elements in Contaminated Soils and Sediments."

   Progress on the seven MPDs in the Occupational Radiation Protection
   area was reviewed within the context of six presentations made at this
   subcommittee’s meeting and in the recent issuance of the second CIRMS
   Report on "National Needs in Ionizing Radiation Measurements and
   Standards." CIRMS has obtained membership on the American National
   Standards Institute (ANSI) committee N13, which reviews radiation
   protection standards published by the Health Physics Society. Greater
   participation on the part of CIRMS membership in this review process
   was encouraged.

   The Industrial Applications and Materials Effects subcommittee expanded
   upon the needs defined in MPD D.3 on "Radiation Hardness Testing and
   Mixed-Field Radiation Effects" to include effects induced by the space
   environment. MPD D.4 on "Neutron Dosimetry for Reactor Pressure Vessel
   Surveillance" was brought up to date to include the latest requirements
   published by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Three new MPDs were
   introduced and discussed. MPD D.5 melded together the needs in both the
   gamma irradiation and electron beam areas dealing with medical device
   sterilization. MPD D.6 cataloged a list of emerging applications in
   which irradiation is being used to prevent or remediate air, water and
   ground pollution. The growing public interest in food irradiation is
   addressed by the new MPD D.7 on this topic.

   Speakers:
   In the Medical Applications subcommittee meeting, ten presentations
   were made on current topics of interest to the members. Five of these
   were made by NIST personnel to up-date subcommittee members on ongoing
   activities at NIST. The five others were from industry (two), other
   government agencies (two) and from the university community (one).

   The Occupational Radiation Protection Subcommittee heard presentations
   by Jack Price on the neutron accelerator source at the Naval Surface
   Warfare Center and by Alan Thompson on the standardization efforts
   involving intercomparisons of neutron sources. Peter Olsen discussed
   in-vivo radionuclide metrology. Ken Swinth reviewed the status of
   efforts in the measurement infrastructure area. The field of electronic
   dosimetry was covered in presentations by Tin Mo of the Nuclear
   Regulatory Commission and by Sergio Lopez, who described a program to
   develop testing criteria for electronic dosimeters.

   The Industrial Applications and Materials Effects subcommittee also
   heard a series of presentations pertinent to the MPDs in this area. Dr.
   Marshall Cleland, the very first President of CIRMS and now with the
   accelerator manufacturer, Ion Beam Applications (IBA) reviewed some new
   uses for electron beam processing, such as in the breakdown of
   cellulose in the paper making process. Dr. Noel Guardala of the Naval
   Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) reviewed their studies on materials to be
   used in the space environment using the NSWC tandem accelerator. Don
   Derr, a retiree from the U.S. Department of Agriculture and now a Food
   Safety Consultant, up-dated the subcommittee on the status of food
   irradiation in the U.S. (see separate article on Food Irradiation). Dr.
   Mohammed Al’Sheikhly from the University of Maryland discussed their
   studies on the use of electron beam irradiation to detoxify water by
   eliminating hazardous halocarbons.

   Future Considerations: It was felt by the subcommittees that the use of
   the roadmap planning format needed to be instituted early on in the
   development of Measurement Program Descriptions. This can help in
   defining program champions and establishing attainable and well-defined
   program goals. Having expended a great deal of effort in writing and
   putting together the second "National Needs Report," the subcommittees
   all realize the benefits of having periodic workshops to move agenda
   items forward and to focus on specific issues. Likewise, using the
   subcommittee meeting at the annual CIRMS meeting to have speakers on
   specific topics was found to be beneficial.

                      NRC Chair to Become RPI President

   Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson, Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission since May 1995 will become the president of Rensselaer
   Polytechnic Institute. Dr. Jackson received her PhD from MIT in 1973.
   She has worked at Bell Labs and was a professor at Rutgers University
   until her appointment by President Clinton to the Chair of the NRC. She
   announced that she would complete her current term with the NRC which
   expires on June 30, 1999. Additional information can be obtained from
   the RPI web page at http://www.rpi.edu/web/new_president/.


             CIRMS/PERP & NRIP Spring Workshop-March 24-26, 1998

   As part of the ongoing effort to improve low-level radionuclide
   measurements, the participants of the NIST Radiochemistry
   Intercomparison Program (NRIP), co-sponsored by the CIRMS PERP
   sub-committee, hold semi-annual Users Workshops. The meetings are held
   to discuss technical and programmatic issues associated with the
   CIRMS/PERP MPD and NRIP for the establishment of a national
   radiochemistry traceability-testing program. In attendance were
   representatives from the participating laboratories, US Environmental
   Protection Agency EPA, the US Department of Energy, National
   Laboratories, ANSI standards writing committees, the International
   Atomic Energy Agency (Austria), Ontario Hydro (Canada), and US
   commercial suppliers of radioactivity standards.

   From a technical standpoint, the workshop held at NIST, focused on
   analytical techniques for the analysis of Sr-90, U-238, Pu-238 and
   Am-241 on glass-fiber air filters (round one intercomparison
   distribution FY '98). The purpose of the technical sessions was for
   laboratories to share information and insights on the most effective
   methods for actinide and Sr-90 analysis. The users agreed that this
   would be a valuable forum for improving radiochemical metrology that
   would eventually cover five matrices included in the NRIP test-sample
   distributions (water, glass-fiber air filters, synthetic urine,
   synthetic fecal material, and natural-matrix soil).

   Programmatic concerns were also addressed at the Workshop. Three major
   issues surfaced during the discussions. At the forefront was the issue
   of assessment of radiochemistry uncertainties and their propagation for
   reporting final results. Participants, ANSI committee chairpersons, and
   NIST scientists gave several presentations. A second issue addressed
   was the implementation of the American National Standard N42.22-1995
   (Traceability of Radioactive Sources to the National Institute of
   Standards and Technology and Associated Instrument Quality Control)
   acceptance criteria for NIST traceability testing. The philosophical
   and statistical concepts supporting the criteria and their application
   for establishing source manufacturer traceability were discussed. The
   standard defines acceptable testing results as:

   [Image2.gif]

   where the absolute value of the bias between the reported value, V[R],
   and the NIST value, V[N], shall be less than or equal to three times
   the total propagated NIST uncertainty, s [N], and the reported
   uncertainty, s [R]. Furthermore, the right hand side of the equation
   defines the "traceability limit" to which a source manufacturer could
   claim traceability. The third issue was an additional proposal to
   further amend the traceability testing criteria to include an upper
   bound on the of the traceability limit of 45% for service laboratories.
   The issue was discussed at length, including the ramifications of
   non-compliance. These issues will be voted on by participating NRIP
   laboratories.

   In addition to issues directly related to the current NRIP
   traceability-testing program, discussions were held on the
   establishment of Reference Laboratories. Guidelines for the
   establishment of Reference Laboratories are defined in the American
   National Standard N42.23-1996 (Measurement and Associated
   Instrumentation Quality Assurance for Radioassay Laboratories). This
   ANSI standard envisions a small group of program-specific Reference
   Laboratories that participate directly in a traceability-testing
   program with NIST, technical document reviews and on-site assessments.
   These Reference Laboratories would act as intermediaries that
   establishes the traceability testing link to the Service Laboratories
   through their Performance Testing (PT) programs. The document further
   envisions the accreditation of these reference laboratories by an
   external body. One current driving force to establish accredited
   reference laboratories is the privatization of the EPA Drinking Water
   Crosscheck Program, formerly administered through the EPA EMSL (Las
   Vegas, NV). The privatization of this program, critical to the
   credibility of state monitoring laboratory measurement results,
   requires the accreditation of the PT Providers (Reference Laboratories)
   of the drinking water testing samples. The EPA will have the NIST
   Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP) accredit these
   commercial suppliers. The accreditation process includes the on-site
   and quality-systems document assessments (by experts) as required by
   ANSI N42.23 and N42.22. Radiobioassay DOELAP is a second PT program
   requiring traceable reference laboratories. The traceability testing
   criteria for radiobioassay PT reference laboratories were defined by
   the American National Standard N13.30-1996 (Performance Criteria for
   Radiobioassay). A third sector that will be establishing traceability
   testing for its reference laboratories is DOE-EM for its remediation
   work. It is anticipated that traceability testing for the reference
   laboratories for these three sectors will be initiated within the next
   12 months.

   Contact: Michael Schultz and Kenneth G.W. Inn (NIST)

                CIRMS’s Second Report On National Needs In

                       Ionizing Radiation Measurements

   The Science and Technology Committee of the Council on Ionizing
   Radiation Measurements and Standards (CIRMS) has issued its second
   report on national needs for ionizing radiation measurements. There is
   a steady growth in the need for ionizing radiation measurements and
   physical standards due to the continued increase in the applications of
   radionuclides and ionizing radiation. The effort to meet the needs of
   the user communities for new measurements and standards requires strong
   collaborative efforts on the part of medical, industrial, academic and
   government researchers. The present study identified 25 measurement and
   standards needs in four general areas, which correspond to the four
   subcommittees of the Science and Technology Committee: Medical
   Applications, Public and Environmental Radiation Protection,
   Occupational Radiation Protection, and Industrial Applications and
   Materials Effects.

   The 25 needs are characterized by formal Measurement Program
   Descriptions (MPDs). In general these are programs that require
   concerted and coordinated efforts between industry, government and the
   academic community. Each MPD describes a measurement-related need, a
   possible solution, and the impact of that solution. Details are
   provided regarding the technical nature of the solution, relationship
   to existing programs, technical opportunities, challenges and goals.
   Resources available and those needed to accomplish these programs are
   also indicated. A progress report is given for those programs that were
   identified in the first CIRMS Report on National Needs in Ionizing
   Radiation and Standards, published in 1995.

   Each subcommittee has identified one MPD for which a roadmap is
   considered essential to meet a national goal. In the medical area, one
   of the most pressing needs is for national standards for air kerma
   strength for radioactive seeds used in prostate therapy. The
   environmental scientists see a need for reference methods development
   for characterizing chemical speciation of radionuclides in soils. The
   industrial and materials effects group spells out a need for dosimetry
   standards for medical device sterilization. And the occupational and
   radiation protection community requires new standards and methods for
   electronic personnel dosimetry.

   This 106 page report is available from CIRMS P.O. Box 1238, Duluth, GA
   30136; phone/fax: (770) 622-0026; e-mail:
   cirms@aol.com. For additional information on the Council on Ionizing
   Radiation Measurements and Standards see www.cirms.org.


   Newsletter and Homepage Contributions

   Your newsletter comments and contributions are welcome. Also any
   suggestions or contributions to the CIRMS Homepage are welcome. Please
   send them to the editor at cassonwh@lanl.gov or by mail to William H.
   Casson, MS-G761, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545.









                            Meeting Announcements

   Health Physics Society mid year meeting, Jan 24-27, 1999, Albuquerque,
   NM

   American Physical Society annual meeting, Mar 22-25, 1999, Atlanta, Ga

   NCRP annual meeting, Apr 7-8, 1999, Arlington, VA

   American College of Medical Physics annual meeting, May 17-23, 1999,
   Aspen, CO

   Society of Nuclear Medicine annual meeting, Jun 6-10, 1999, Los Angles,
   CA

   American Nuclear Society annual meeting, Jun 6-11, 1999, Boston, MA

   Health Physics Society annual meeting, Jun 26-Jul 1, 1999,
   Philadelphia, PN

   American Association of Physicist in Medicine annual meeting, Jul
   25-29, 1999, Nashville, TN

   CIRMS annual meeting, Oct 13-15, 1999, Gaithersburg, MD

   American Nuclear Society winter meeting, Nov 14-18, 1999
