http://cio.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Enhanced&Section_1=8


           Text Only Version
           Top Header Bar

             Quickstart | Search | Site Map | Contact Us | Privacy



   Pixel Menu
   Pixel
   Pixel Privacy Policy Pixel

   Bypass Menu Section
   About The Council

   Charters, Members, Minutes
   Calendar Of Events

   Conferences, Meetings
   Documents
   Links

   Related Web Sites
   Members Only

   Password Required

   CIO Home Page
   Administrator
   Text Only Version

   You are entering an official United States Government System which may
   be used only for authorized purposes. Thank you for visiting the Chief
   Information Officers Council's web site; we are committed to protecting
   your privacy rights. These rights are ensured through the Privacy Act
   and other federal statutes. We will not collect personal information
   about you just because you visit this site.

   If you send us e-mail, do not send information that you would not want
   a third party to read. Be advised that the confidentiality of Internet
   transmission is not guaranteed. In reply, we will furnish only general
   information by e-mail. We will not share the information that you
   provide to us via email with anyone unless required by law to do so. We
   will not collect or sell your information for commercial purposes.

   The Government may monitor and audit usage of this system and all
   persons are hereby notified that use of this system constitutes consent
   to such monitoring and auditing. Unauthorized attempts to upload
   information and/or change information on these web sites are strictly
   prohibited and are subject to prosecution under the Computer Fraud and
   Abuse Act of 1986 and Title 18 U.S.C. Sec.1001 and 1030.

   In order to improve the usefulness of our web site for our visitors, we
   automatically collect and maintain statistical information from our
   site's data logs that concern network traffic flow and volume. This
   information consists of the name of the domain from which you access
   the Internet (e.g., "erols.com," "Harvard.edu," or "irs.gov"); the date
   and time you accessed our site; the item you requested from the server;
   and the Internet address of the web site from which you linked to our
   site. We also record the type of request, the Hypertext Transfer
   Protocol (HTTP) version, and the status code of the request
   (success/failure). This information does not identify individual
   visitors.

   We do not use "persistent cookies;" however, our Members Only section
   uses "session cookies" that are temporary and deleted within five
   minutes. No attempts are made to identify individual users unless
   illegal behavior is suspected. We also monitor network traffic to
   identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information or
   otherwise cause damage to the web service. We focus on web site
   security so that this service remains available to you and other
   visitors.

   | About The Council | Calendar Of Events | Documents | Links | Members
   Only |
   E-Mail: CIO Council   Last Updated: 1.30.2002
     First Gov - Your First Click to the U.S. Government
