http://www.nmid.uscourts.gov/usdcnmi_rules_03012000.PDF

   LOCAL RULES _______ UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT NORTHERN MARIANA
   ISLANDS _______ Effective January 1, 1997 (As Amended Through March 1,
   2000) Table of Contents The Local Rules are numbered to correspond to
   the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. For example, Federal Rule of
   Civil Procedure 56 deals with summary judgment and LR 56.1 is the Local
   Rule which affects summary judgment practice. Note: The local civil
   rules shall be cited "LR ___." STANDARDS OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT Page
   Civil Rules I. Scope of Rules 1 LR 1.1 - Scope of the Rules 1 a. Title
   and Citation b. Effective Date c. Scope of the Rules d. Relationship to
   Prior Rules; Actions Pending on Effective Date e. Rule of Construction
   and Definitions LR 1.2 - Availability of the Local Rules 2 LR 1.3 -
   Sanctions 2 LR 1.4 - Calendaring Conflicts 3 a. Counsel's Duty to
   Notify Court LR 1.5 - Standards of Professional Conduct 3 ii II.
   Commencement of Action; Service of Process; Pleadings, Motions, and
   Orders 4 LR 3.1 - Civil Cover Sheet 4 LR 5.1 - General Format of Papers
   Presented for Filing 4 a. Applicability of Rule and Effect of
   Noncompliance b. General Requirements c. Citation Form d. Cited
   Authority Not Available in Court's Law Library e. Original and Two
   Copies Required for Court f. Counsel Identification g. Caption and
   Title h. After-Hours and Lunch Hour Filings I. Hearing Date and Time
   Must Be Noted On All Filings For Which a Hearing Will Be Held LR 5.3 -
   Copies Required for a Three-Judge Court 7 LR 5.5 - Filing Facsimile
   Copies 8 LR 5.6 - Time Computation 8 III. Pleadings and Motions LR 7.1
   - Motion Practice 9 a. Motion Day b. Notice and Supporting Papers c.
   Hearing Date; Opposition and Reply d. Briefs and Memoranda: General
   Requirements and Sanctions e. (RESERVED) f. Summary Judgment Motions;
   Procedures g. Motion for Reconsideration iii h. Extending, Increasing,
   or Shortening Time 1. Stipulations Extending Time 2. Applications for
   Increased Time 3. Ex Parte Applications 4. Extension to Respond to
   Third-Party Claims 5. Order Shortening Time LR 7.4 - Stipulations 14 LR
   9.1 - Social Security Number in Social Security Cases 14 LR 9.2 -
   Request for Three-Judge Court 15 a. Request b. Copies of Filings c.
   Failure to Comply LR 15.1 - Form of a Motion to Amend 15 and Its
   Supporting Documents LR 16.2CJ - Case Management and Pretrial
   Conferences 16 a. Definitions. b. Assertive Judicial Management. c.
   Tracks, Evaluation, and Assignment of Cases. 1. Number and Types of
   Tracks. 2. Evaluation and Assignment of Cases; Criteria. 3. Evaluation
   and Assignment. d. Mandatory Pre-Discovery Disclosure. e. Case
   Management Conference ("CMC"); Informed Participation by Counsel for
   All Parties at Case Management Conference. 1. Order Setting Case
   Management Conference. (a) Telephone Conferencing. 2. Case Management
   Conference Statement; Duty of Parties. 3. Representation At Conference
   by Attorney with Authority to Bind. 4. Case Management Conference
   Order. 5. Settlement Conferences; Mandatory Consideration. iv 6.
   Additional Pretrial Conferences; Objections Thereto. 7. Pretrial
   Preparation; Duty of Parties. 8. Final Pretrial Conference. 9. Final
   Pretrial Order. LR 16.3CJ Trial Date; Presumptive 30 LR 16.11CJ
   Alternative Dispute Resolution: 31 Non-Binding Summary Jury Trials. a.
   Eligible Cases. b. Selection of Cases. c. Procedural Considerations.
   IV. Parties LR 17.1 - Infants and Incompetent Persons 35 a. Guardians
   Ad Litem 1. Appointment Procedure 2. Person Ineligible to be a Guardian
   Ad Litem 3. Bond of Guardian Ad Litem 4. Order of Judgment Required LR
   23.1 - Designation of "Class" in the Caption 36 LR 24.1 - Procedure for
   Notification of Any Claim of Unconstitutionality 36 v V. Depositions
   and Discovery NOTE: Discovery practice is governed by Fed.R.Civ.P. 26;
   the following Local Rules apply generally. In case of a conflict, the
   federal rules control. LR 26.1 - General Requirements 38 LR 26.2 -
   Scheduling 38 LR 26.3 - Exceptions 39 LR 26.4 - Minimum Notice for
   Depositions and Hearings 40 LR 26.5 - Canceling Depositions, Hearings,
   and Other Discovery Matters 40 LR 26.6 - Time Deadlines and Extensions
   40 LR 26.7 - Interrogatories - Form and Limitation on Number 41 a. Form
   b. Limitation on Number LR 26.8 - Answers and Objections to
   Interrogatories 41 a. Answers to Interrogatories b. Objections to
   Interrogatories or Answers LR 26.9 - Answers and Objections to Requests
   for Admission 42 LR 26.10 - Abuse of or Failure to Make Discovery;
   Sanctions 42 a. Conference Required b. Certificate of Compliance LR
   26.12 - Depositions for Use in Judicial Proceedings 43 LR 26.13 -
   Discovery Materials Not to be Filed 43 vi VI. Trials LR 41.1 -
   Dismissal of Actions 44 LR 53.2 - Arbitration/Alternative Dispute
   Resolution 44 (See LR 16.11CJ) VII. Judgment LR 54.1 - Taxation of
   Costs 45 a. Application to the Clerk b. Depositions c. Transcripts d.
   Fees and Disbursements for Witnesses e. Fees for Exemplification and
   Copies of Papers Necessarily Obtained for Use in the Case f. Bond
   Premiums g. Other Costs h. Objections I. Review LR 54.2 - Jury Cost
   Assessment; Settlement Immediately Prior to Trial 48 LR 56.1 - Summary
   Judgment Procedure 49 LR 62.1 - Supersedeas Bonds 50 a. Nonresidents b.
   Other Parties c. Qualifications of Surety d. Suits by Indigent Persons
   vii VIII. Provisional and Final Remedies and Special Proceedings LR
   66.1 - Receiverships 52 a. Appointment of Receivers 1. Emergency
   Receivers 2. Permanent Receivers 3. Bond b. Employment of Experts c.
   Application for Receiver's Fees d. Deposit of Funds e. Reports f.
   Notice of Hearings X. District Courts and Clerks LR 77.1 - Location and
   Hours of Court 55 LR 77.4 - Sessions of the Court 55 LR 77.6 - Court
   Library 55 LR 77.7 - Ex Parte Communication With Judges 55 LR 79.1 -
   Custody of Files and Exhibits 56 a. Delivery to Person Entitled b.
   Unclaimed Exhibits viii XI. General Provisions; Admission to Bar;
   Standards of Professional Conduct; Communications to Court from
   Counsel; Appearances, Withdrawal, and Substitution of Counsel LR 83.1 -
   Local Rulemaking 57 LR 83.2 - Free Press - Fair Trial Proceedings -
   Cameras in the 57 Courtroom - Broadcasting, Television, Recording or
   Photographing Judicial and Grand Jury Proceedings LR 83.3 - Practice in
   this Court; Dress Code 58 LR 83.5 - Admission to this Court's Bar 58 a.
   Admission to Practice b. Procedure for Admission c. Attorneys for the
   United States and the Commonwealth d. Pro Hac Vice e. Notice of Change
   of Status f. Designation of Local Counsel g. Appearances, Withdrawal,
   and Substitution of Counsel 1. Appearances 2. Persons Appearing Without
   An Attorney (In Propria Persona) 3. Substitutions 4. Withdrawal from
   Case LR 83.6 - Discipline; Sanctions for Unauthorized Practice 63 a.
   Discipline b. Prohibition of Unauthorized Practice c. Sanctions ix
   Criminal Rules NOTE: The court's local rules will generally apply to
   filings in criminal matters, except as specifically noted herein below
   or unless the interests of justice require the court to order
   otherwise. These local criminal rules shall be cited "LCrR __." LCrR
   12.1 Time for Filing Pretrial Motions. 65 LCrR 17.1.1 Pretrial
   Conference. 65 Habeas Corpus Petitions and Motions Under 28 U.S.C. §
   2255 LR-HC 1 Habeas Corpus Petitions - Requirements 66 Bankruptcy Rules
   NOTE: The court's local rules apply to all bankruptcy matters, unless
   the interests of justice require otherwise. The local bankruptcy rules
   shall be cited "LBR ____." LBR 1001-1 Bankruptcy Division; Format of
   Pleadings; Forms. 69 LBR 1007-1 Master Mailing Matrix. 69 LBR 2002-1
   Responsibility for Providing Notice. 73 a. General. b. Notice of
   §341(a) Meetings. c. Corporate Petitions. d. Notice of Orders and
   Opinions. e. Required Notice When Schedules Are Filed After the Date
   The Petition is Filed. 1. Chapter 7, 11 and 12 Cases 2. Chapter 13
   Cases. f. Notice to the United States Trustee. x 1. Uncontested Motions
   & Notices of Intent. 2. Contested Motions. 3. Ex Parte Motions. 4. No
   Limitation of Other Service Requirements. g. Summons and Notice of
   Hearing. h. Notice to Other Courts. LBR 2015-1 Operating Reports for
   Chapter 11. 76 LBR 9009-1 Use of Official Forms. 76 Admiralty Rules
   Note: The local admiralty rules shall be cited "LAR ___." LAR A - Scope
   and Definitions 77 1. Scope. 2. Definitions. LAR B - Attachment and
   Garnishment; Affidavit that Defendant 77 Is Not Found Within the
   District. LAR C - Actions In Rem; Special Provisions 77 1. Undertakings
   in Lieu of Arrest. 2. Intangible Property. 3. Notice of Action and
   Arrest. a. Publication. b. Filing of Proof of Publication. 4. Default
   In Action In Rem. a. Notice Required. b. Persons with Recorded
   Interests. c. Failure to Give Notice. 5. Entry of Default and Default
   Judgment. xi LAR D - POSSESSORY, PETITORY, AND PARTITION ACTIONS 81 1.
   Return Date. LAR E - ACTIONS IN REM AND QUASI IN REM: GENERAL
   PROVISIONS 81 1. Itemized Demand for Judgment. 2. Verification of
   Pleadings. 3. Review by Judicial Officer. (a) Authorization to Issue
   Process. Exigent Circumstances. (c) Personal Appearance. (d) Order. (e)
   Request for Review. 4. Process Held in Abeyance. 5. Service by Marshal
   Required. 6. Instructions to the Marshal. 7. Property in Possession of
   United States Officer. 8. Security for Costs. 9. Adversary Hearing. 10.
   Appraisal. 11. Security Deposit for Arrest or Attachment of Vessels.
   12. Intervenors' Claims. (a) Presentation of Claim. (b) Sharing
   Marshal's Fees and Expenses. 13. Custody of Property. (a) Safekeeping
   of Property. (b) Insurance. (c) Vessel Operations. (d) Claims by
   Suppliers for Payment of Charges. 14. Sale of Property. (a) Notice. (b)
   Payment of Bid. (c) Report and Confirmation. (d) Penalty for Late
   Payment of Balance. (e) Penalty for Default in Payment of Balance. (f)
   Opposition to Sale. xii (g) Disposition of Deposits. (1) Objection
   Sustained. (2) Objection overruled. LAR F - LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 90
   1. Security for Costs. 2. Order of Proof at Trial. LAR G -
   MISCELLANEOUS 91 1. Deserting Seamen Cases. (a) Service. (b) Time to
   Plead. 2. Rate of Prejudgment Interest Allowed. 3. Assignment of
   Actions. Tax Rules NOTE: The local tax rules shall be cited "LTR __."
   LTR 1 Tax Division. 92 LTR 2 Effective Date, Scope of Rules, and
   Construction. 92 a. Effective Date. b. Scope. c. Construction. LTR 3
   Commencement of Case. 93 LTR 4 Pleadings Allowed; Caption. 93 LTR 5
   Filing of Petition for Redetermination. 93 LTR 6 Content of Petition in
   Deficiency or Liability Actions. 94 xiii LTR 7 Answer. 96 a. Time to
   Answer or File Motion. b. Form and Content. c. Effect of Failure to
   Admit or Deny. LTR 8 Reply. 97 a. Time to Reply or File a Motion. b.
   Form and Content. c. Effect of Failure to Admit or Deny. d. New
   Material. LTR 9 Stipulations for Trial. 98 a. Stipulations required. 1.
   General. 2. Stipulations to be Comprehensive. b. Form. c. Filing. d.
   Objections. e. Binding Effect. f. Noncompliance by a Party 1. Motion to
   Compel Stipulation. 2. Procedure. 3. Failure to Respond. 4. Matters
   Considered. 5. Sanctions. LTR 10 Pretrial Conferences. 101 LTR 11
   Decisions Without Trial. 101 LTR 12 Default and Dismissal. 101 LTR 13
   Burden of Proof. 101 a. General. b. Fraud. xiv LTR 14 Computation by
   Parties for Entry of Decision. 102 a. Agreed Computations. b. Procedure
   in Absence of Agreement. c. Limit on Argument. xv Appendix A
   Disciplinary Rules Note: The local disciplinary rules shall be cited
   "LDR ___." LDR 1 - Jurisdiction. 1 LDR 2 - Grounds for Discipline. 1
   LDR 3 - Types of Discipline. 3 LDR 4 - Complaints. 3 LDR 5 -
   Investigation Procedure. 3 LDR 6 - Disciplinary Committee. 4 (a)
   Composition. (b) Duties. (c) Formal Hearing. LDR 7 - Investigation
   Report Disposition and Appointment of Judicial Panel. 4 LDR 8 -
   Prosecuting Counsel. 5 (a) Appointment. (b) Duties. LDR 9 - Immunity of
   Investigating Counsel, Disciplinary Committee, and Prosecuting Counsel
   5 LDR 10 - Hearing. 6 (a) Complaint. (b) Answer. (c) Date of Hearing.
   (d) Where Held. (e) Public Excluded from Hearing. xvi (f) Procedure.
   (g) Findings and Conclusions. LDR 11 - Refusal of Complainant to
   Proceed or Compromise. 7 LDR 12 - Matters Involving Related Pending
   Civil or Criminal Litigation. 7 LDR 13 - Service. 7 LDR 14 - Subpoena
   Power - Witnesses. 8 LDR 15 - Attorneys Convicted of Crimes. 8 LDR 16 -
   Reciprocal Discipline. 10 LDR 17 - Disbarred or Suspended Attorney. 11
   LDR 18 - Reinstatement. 13 LDR 19 - Cumulative Violations. 14 xvii
   STANDARDS OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT* The following standards of practice
   are to be observed by attorneys appearing in this Court: In fulfilling
   his or her primary duty to the client, a lawyer must be ever conscious
   of the broader duty to the judicial system that serves both attorney
   and client. A lawyer owes to the judiciary candor, diligence and utmost
   respect. A lawyer owes to opposing counsel a duty of courtesy and
   cooperation, the observance of which is necessary for the efficient
   administration of our system of justice and the respect of the public
   it serves. A lawyer unquestionably owes to the administration of
   justice the fundamental duties of personal dignity and professional
   integrity. Lawyers should treat each other, the opposing party, the
   Court, and members of the Court staff with courtesy and civility and
   conduct themselves in a professional manner at all times. A client has
   no right to demand that counsel abuse the opposite party or indulge in
   offensive conduct. A lawyer shall always treat adverse witnesses and
   suitors with fairness and due consideration. In adversary proceedings,
   clients are litigants and though ill feeling may exist between clients,
   such ill feeling should not influence a lawyer's conduct, attitude, or
   demeanor towards opposing lawyers. Lawyers will be punctual in
   communications with others and in honoring scheduled appearances, and
   will recognize that neglect and tardiness are demeaning to the lawyer
   and to the judicial system. If a fellow member of the Bar makes a just
   request for cooperation, or seeks scheduling accommodation, a lawyer
   will not arbitrarily or unreasonably withhold consent. Effective
   advocacy does not require antagonistic or obnoxious behavior and
   members of the Bar will adhere to the higher standard of conduct which
   judges, lawyers, clients, and the public may rightfully expect. *These
   standards are incorporated into LR 1.5. I. Scope of Rules LR 1.1 -
   Scope of the Rules. a. Title and Citation. These Rules shall be known
   as the Local Rules of the United States District Court for the Northern
   Mariana Islands. They shall be cited as "LR ____." b. Effective Date.
   These Rules become effective January 1, 1997. c. Scope of the Rules.
   These Rules shall apply in all proceedings in this court. d.
   Relationship to Prior Rules; Actions Pending on Effective Date. These
   Rules supersede all previous Rules promulgated by this court or any
   judge of this court. They shall govern all applicable proceedings
   brought in this court after they take effect. They shall also apply to
   all proceedings pending at the time they take effect, except to the
   extent that in the opinion of the court the application thereof would
   not be feasible or would work an injustice, in which event the former
   rules shall govern. e. Rule of Construction and Definitions. 1. United
   States Code, Title 1, sections 1 to 5, shall, as far as applicable,
   govern the construction of these rules. 2. The following definitions
   shall apply: (a) The word "court" refers to the United States District
   Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and not to any particular judge
   of the court. (b) The word "judge" refers to any United States District
   Judge, or to a Designated Judge assigned pursuant to 48 U.S.C. §
   1694(b)(2), or to a part-time or full-time United States Magistrate who
   exercises jurisdiction in a particular proceeding. 1 (c) The word
   "clerk" means the Clerk of Court or a deputy for the U.S. District
   Court for the Northern Mariana Islands. LR 1.2 - Availability of the
   Local Rules. Copies of these Rules, as amended and with any appendices
   attached hereto, are available from the Office of the Clerk of Court,
   U.S. District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, P.O. Box 500687,
   Saipan, MP 96950, for a reasonable charge to be determined by the
   clerk. When amendments to these rules are proposed, notice of such
   proposals and of the ability of the public to comment shall be provided
   by public posting, as well as by notice to the Northern Mariana Islands
   Bar Association, the Guam Bar Association, and by posting on the
   bulletin board in the Office of the Clerk of Court. Fed.R.Civ.P. 83.
   When amendments to these rules are made, notice of such amendments
   shall be provided to the Northern Mariana Islands Bar Association, the
   Guam Bar Association, and by posting on the bulletin board in the
   Office of the Clerk of Court. LR 1.3 - Sanctions. The court may
   sanction for violation of any local rule governing the form of
   pleadings and other papers filed with the court only by the imposition
   of a fine against the attorney or a person proceeding pro se. Local
   rules governing the form of pleadings and other papers filed with the
   court include, but are not limited to, those local rules regulating the
   paper size, the number of copies to be filed with the court, and the 2
   requirement of a special designation in the caption. LR 1.4 -
   Calendaring Conflicts. a. Counsel's Duty to Notify Court. Within 48
   hours of learning of a scheduling conflict between this court and any
   other court, counsel shall notify the presiding judge or clerk of this
   court. The judge shall consider the following factors in resolving the
   conflict: 1. Whether a case is criminal, with attendant speedy trial
   concerns, or civil; 2. Whether out-of-town witnesses, parties, or
   counsel are scheduled to attend a case; 3. Age of the case; 4. Which
   matter was set first; and, 5. Any other factor which weighs in favor of
   one court and case over the other. LR 1.5 - Standards of Professional
   Conduct. Every member of this court's bar and any attorney permitted to
   practice in this court under LR 83.5.d shall be governed by and shall
   observe the Model Rules of Professional Conduct of the American Bar
   Association as adopted in 1983 and as thereafter amended or judicially
   construed, these Local Rules, and this court's "Standards of
   Professional Conduct," supra. 3 II. Commencement of Action; Service of
   Process; Pleadings, Motions, and Orders LR 3.1 - Civil Cover Sheet
   Every complaint or other document initiating a civil action shall be
   accompanied by a completed civil cover sheet, on a form available from
   the clerk. This requirement is solely for administrative purposes, and
   matters appearing only on the civil cover sheet have no legal effect in
   the action. If the complaint or other document is filed without a
   completed civil cover sheet, the clerk shall mark the document as to
   the date received and promptly give notice of the omission to the party
   filing the document. When the civil cover sheet has been completed, the
   clerk shall file the complaint or other document nunc pro tunc as of
   the date of the original receipt. LR 5.1 - General Format of Papers
   Presented for Filing a. Applicability of Rule and Effect of
   Noncompliance. These Rules apply in all proceedings. All pleadings
   presented at the clerk's office shall be accepted for filing; however,
   noncompliance with these Rules may subject a party to sanctions. b.
   General Requirements. All pleadings, motions, and other papers
   presented for filing shall be on 8.5 x 11 inch white paper of good
   quality, with double-spaced numbering running the length of the left
   margin, flat and unfolded, and shall be plainly typewritten, printed,
   or prepared by a clearly legible duplication process, and double-
   spaced, except for quoted material. Each page shall be numbered
   consecutively. This rule does not apply to: 1) exhibits submitted for
   filing; and, 2) documents 4 filed in removed actions prior to removal
   from the Commonwealth courts. The upper right-hand corner three inches
   of the first page of all papers shall be left blank for the clerk's
   use. Unless otherwise required by this Rule, each page shall have a
   margin of not less than 1.5 inches on the top, one inch on the bottom,
   one-half inch on the right hand margin, and one inch on the left hand
   side of the page. This Rule shall not apply to forms furnished by the
   court. c. Citation Form. All citations shall be in a generally
   recognized form, preferably as found in A Uniform System of Citation
   (15th ed.), enabling both the court and opposing counsel to locate the
   cited work. d. Cited Authority Not Available in the Court's Law
   Library. Parties shall provide the court and opposing counsel a copy of
   any case or other authority cited or relied upon which is not available
   in this court's law library. e. Original and Two Copies Required for
   Court. Counsel shall supply the court with an original and two copies
   of all papers filed. f. Counsel Identification. The name, address,
   telephone number, and facsimile number of counsel (or, if in propria
   persona, of the party), and the specific identification of each party
   represented by name and interest in the litigation (i.e., plaintiff,
   defendant, etc.) shall appear in the upper left-hand corner of the
   first page of each paper presented for filing, except that in
   multi-party proceedings reference may be made to the signature page for
   the complete list of parties represented. 5 g. Caption and Title. (1)
   The title of the court shall be centered on the first page of all
   papers at least 1.5 inches from the top of the page. (2) The title of
   the proceeding shall appear on the first page of all papers below the
   title of the court and to the left of the center of the page. In a
   complaint, the title of the proceeding shall contain the names of all
   parties. In all papers other than a complaint the title of the
   proceeding may be appropriately abbreviated. (3) The file number of the
   proceeding; a designation of the proceeding; i.e., as civil, criminal,
   bankruptcy, etc.; and a title describing the paper(s) presented for
   filing shall appear on the first page of all papers below the title of
   the court and to the right of the title of the proceeding. (4) Every
   pleading shall be specifically and particularly identified; e.g.
   "Plaintiff's Opposition to Defendant's Motion for Partial Summary
   Judgment." h. After-Hours and Lunch Hour Filings. Filings may be
   submitted to the Clerk of Court for filing during non-work hours by
   placing them in the slotted drop-box in the main door at the Clerk's
   Office. Only subsequent pleadings may be submitted for filing using the
   drop-box; new complaints, emergency matters, petitions for removal,
   sealed documents, and documents or administrative matters which require
   a fee payment (such as filing fees, payment of fines, or payment of
   restitution) cannot be filed using the drop- box. Likewise, documents
   filed in response to a court order setting a date and time certain for
   filing cannot be filed using the drop-box. 6 Documents placed in the
   drop-box after hours will be deemed filed as of the previous federal
   business day; documents placed in the drop-box during the lunch hour
   will be deemed filed the day they are deposited. NOTE: All documents
   must be served on opposing parties or counsel in accordance with the
   time frames provided by court order or in the Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure. The original and all necessary copies of subsequent
   pleadings such as answers, motions, etc. must be placed in a 9" x 12"
   or larger envelope. If the original and all copies cannot fit into one
   envelope, they must be placed in separate envelopes and numbered
   sequentially, with the total number of envelopes indicated; i.e. "1 of
   3." (Amendment effective April 1, 1999.) I. Hearing Date and Time Must
   Be Noted on All Filings for Which a Hearing Will Be Held. The first
   page of every motion, opposition, reply, or other filing directed to a
   matter for which a hearing will be held shall indicate the date and
   time of the hearing (e.g. "Defendant's Opposition to Plaintiff's Motion
   for Summary Judgment" and, below that, "Hearing: March 2, 2000, Time:
   10:00 a.m."). If the hearing date and time are not known to the filer
   at the time of the initial filing, the filer shall provide blank spaces
   for the information to be filled in. (Amendment effective September 1,
   1999.) LR 5.3 - Copies Required for a Three-Judge Court. In addition to
   the original filed, four copies of all papers, including briefs, shall
   be filed with the clerk. 7 LR 5.5 - Filing Facsimile Copies. Facsimile
   copies from attorneys whose main office is off-island or from local
   attorneys who are off-island may be accepted for filing provided the
   original thereof is mailed on the date of the facsimile transmission.
   The original shall be accompanied by a cover letter referring to the
   facsimile copy and its date of transmission. A facsimile copy that is
   not an exact duplicate of the original is subject to being stricken on
   motion by the opposing party or upon an order of the court sua sponte.
   Sanctions may be imposed for filing an original which differs in any
   respect from the facsimile copy. After a period of thirty days from the
   date of receipt of the original, which shall bear the same filing date
   as the facsimile copy, the clerk is authorized to remove from the
   court's file and discard the facsimile copy. LR 5.6 - Time Computation.
   Fed.R.Civ.P. 6 controls the manner for computing any period of time
   prescribed or allowed by these Rules, except that only seven calendar
   days will be allowed to file a reply brief to a motion. See, LR
   7.1.c.3, infra. 8 III. Pleadings and Motions NOTE: Motion practice is
   governed by Fed.R.Civ.P. 16 and LR 16. The following Local Rules apply
   generally; in case of a conflict with the Federal Rule and LR 16, the
   provisions of the Federal Rule control. LR 7.1 - Motion Practice a.
   Motion Day. Motion day shall be Thursday of each week. If a Thursday is
   a holiday the motion shall be calendared for the following Thursday.
   Unless the judge orders otherwise sua sponte or on motion, the clerk
   shall calendar motions in accordance with this Rule. Oral argument is
   at the discretion of the court but will normally be heard unless the
   court enters an order indicating otherwise. (Local Rule 7.1.a amended
   effective January 4, 1999.) b. Notice and Supporting Papers. Except as
   otherwise ordered or permitted by the judge, and except for application
   for a Temporary Restraining Order, all motions, except those made
   during a trial or hearing, shall be noticed in writing on the motion
   calendar for hearing not less than twenty-eight (28) days after filing.
   Each notice of motion shall be accompanied, where appropriate, by
   affidavits or declarations under penalty of perjury sufficient to
   support any material factual contentions, and by an appropriate legal
   memorandum or brief, including, where appropriate, citations to these
   Rules. See LR 16 regarding deadlines established in the Case Management
   Order. c. Hearing Date; Opposition and Reply. 1. Hearing Date. Unless
   the party moves for a different hearing date, a motion will be heard on
   the fourth Thursday after it is filed, not including the Thursday or 9
   Friday of the week in which the motion is filed. The first page of
   every motion, opposition, and reply shall contain the date and time of
   the hearing. 2. Opposition. Any opposition to the motion shall be filed
   and served by the close of business (3:30 p.m.) on the Thursday of the
   second full week after the week in which the motion was filed. The
   opposition shall consist of a legal memorandum or brief and, when
   appropriate, affidavits or declarations under penalty of perjury. A
   party not opposing a motion shall file a statement of no opposition
   within the time provided above. Failure to file such a statement may be
   deemed an admission that the motion is meritorious. 3. Reply. The
   movant shall serve and file any reply to the opposition by the close of
   business (3:30 p.m.) no later than Thursday in the week following the
   week in which the opposition was filed. (For example, if a motion is
   filed on Tuesday, the 2nd, the opposition would be due on Thursday, the
   18th, the reply would be due on Thursday, the 25th, and the motion
   would be heard on the following Thursday. If a motion is filed on
   Friday, the 5th, the opposition and reply would remain due on the dates
   given above.) 4. No Further Filings Allowed. No further filings or
   replies shall be accepted without leave having first been obtained from
   the court. Any filing made in violation of this rule shall be stricken
   on the court's own motion, without the necessity of a motion. d. Briefs
   and Memoranda: General Requirements and Sanctions. Briefs or memoranda
   supporting or opposing a motion shall not exceed twenty-five (25) pages
   in length. Reply memoranda shall not exceed ten (10) pages in length. A
   party wishing to 10 exceed the page limit must first move to do so. If
   the motion is granted, the party shall then file its memorandum. Briefs
   or memoranda exceeding fifteen (15) pages shall have a table of
   contents and authorities cited. (Local Rule 7.1.c amended effective
   January 4, 1999.) Failure to file briefs or memoranda within the time
   deadlines prescribed above may subject a party to a motion for summary
   disposition. Failure to file and serve an opposing brief or memorandum
   may be deemed an admission that the motion is meritorious. e.
   (RESERVED) f. Summary Judgment Motions; Procedures See: LR 56.1, infra.
   g. Motion for Reconsideration. In addition to motions brought pursuant
   to Fed.R.Civ.P. 59(a) or 60(b), reconsideration of any other order
   which results in a dismissal with prejudice or a judgment may be
   appropriate when (1) the court is presented with newly-discovered
   evidence, (2) the court committed clear error or the initial decision
   was manifestly unjust, (3) there has been an intervening change in
   controlling law, or (4) there is some other, highly persuasive
   circumstance warranting reconsideration. No other order will be
   reconsidered absent compelling reasons. No motion for reconsideration
   shall in any manner repeat any oral or written argument made in support
   of or in opposition to the original motion. A motion for
   reconsideration shall be made within fourteen calendar days of entry of
   the order or judgment for which reconsideration is sought. Any
   opposition must be filed within 7 11 working days of the motion. There
   shall be no reply. Oral argument will be heard only upon the court's
   request. (LR 7.1.g was amended effective June 15, 1998.) h. Extending,
   Increasing, or Shortening Time. 1. Stipulations Extending Time. Every
   proposed stipulation seeking an extension of time shall indicate on the
   face sheet the sequential number of the extension; e.g., "Second
   Stipulation Extending Time". Each request for an extension of time
   shall be accompanied by an affidavit setting forth the reasons for the
   extension and the effect, if any, the extension of time will have on
   other deadlines previously set, and an order on a separate, captioned
   pleading for the judge's signature. The clerk shall submit the proposed
   extension and affidavit to the judge for disposition. 2. Applications
   for Increased Time. All applications for increases of time made by
   motion shall state (a) the total increase of time previously obtained
   by the parties, (b) the reason for the particular increase requested,
   and © the effect on other scheduled dates. 3. Ex Parte Applications.
   (a) Upon satisfactory showing why the increase of time could not be
   obtained by stipulation or duly noticed motion, the court may grant ex
   parte an emergency increase sufficient to enable the party to apply for
   a further increase by stipulation or duly noticed motion. Any order
   granting an ex parte motion under this Rule shall be made subject to
   objections being filed by opposing counsel within the time provided by
   the court. (b) Emergency and Ex Parte Motions. All ex parte motions
   shall comply with 12 the following requirements: 1. Before filing the
   motion, the movant shall make every practicable effort to notify the
   clerk and opposing counsel, and to serve the motion at the earliest
   possible time. 2. Any motion under this Rule shall have a cover page
   bearing the legend "Emergency (or Ex-Parte, as the case may be) Motion
   Under Local Rule 7.1.h.3(b)" and the caption of the case. A certificate
   of counsel for the movant, entitled "Certificate Pursuant to Local Rule
   7.1.h.3(b), shall follow the cover page and shall contain: (A) The
   telephone numbers and office addresses of the parties; (B) Facts
   showing the existence and nature of the claimed emergency or reason for
   ex-parte application; and (C) When and how counsel for the other
   parties were notified and whether they have been served with the
   motion; or, if not notified and served, why that was not practicable.
   4. Extension to Respond to Third Party Claims. Whenever a defendant
   causes a summons and complaint to be served pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 14
   upon a third person not yet a party to the action, no increase of time
   shall be granted to the person so served except by stipulation of all
   parties or upon motion duly noticed. 5. Order Shortening Time.
   Applications for orders shortening the time permitted or required by
   the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for the filing of any paper or
   pleading or the doing of any act shall be supported by an affidavit
   stating the reasons 13 therefor. When the application is made ex parte,
   the affidavit shall state the reason why a stipulation could not be
   obtained from, or notice could not be given to, the opposing party. I.
   Failure to Comply With Time Limits. The court need not consider
   motions, oppositions to motions, or briefs or memoranda that do not
   comply with the time limits set forth in these Rules. LR 7.4 -
   Stipulations. A proffered stipulation shall contain, on a separate,
   captioned pleading, an order for the judge to sign. See also LR
   7.1.h.1, supra. LR 9.1 - Social Security Number in Social Security
   Cases Any person seeking judicial review of a decision of the Secretary
   of Health and Human Services under Section 205(g) of the Social
   Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 405(g)) shall provide, on a separate paper
   attached to the complaint served on the Secretary of Health and Human
   Services, the social security number of the worker on whose wage record
   the application for benefits was filed. The person shall also state, in
   the complaint, that the social security number has been attached to the
   copy of the complaint served on the Secretary of Health and Human
   Services. Failure to provide a social security number to the Secretary
   of Health and Human Services will not be grounds for dismissal of the
   complaint, but may be grounds for the imposition of sanctions. 14 LR
   9.2 - Request for Three-Judge Court a. Request. In any action or
   proceeding which a party believes is required to be heard by a
   three-judge district court, the words "Three-Judge District Court
   Requested," or the equivalent, shall be included immediately following
   the title of the first pleading in which the cause of action requiring
   a three-judge court is pleaded. Unless the basis for the request is
   apparent from the pleading, it shall be set forth in the pleading or in
   a brief statement attached thereto. The words "Three-Judge Court
   Requested," or the equivalent, on a pleading is a sufficient request
   under 28 U.S.C. § 2284. b. Copies of Filings. In any action or
   proceeding in which a three-judge court is requested, parties shall
   file the original and four copies of every pleading, motion, notice, or
   other document with the clerk until it is determined either that a
   three-judge court will not be convened or that the three-judge court
   has been convened and dissolved, and the case remanded to a single
   judge. The parties may be permitted to file fewer copies by order of
   the court. c. Failure to Comply. A failure to comply with this local
   rule is not a ground for failing to convene or for dissolving a
   three-judge court, but may be grounds for imposition of sanctions. LR
   15.1 - Form of a Motion to Amend and Its Supporting Documents. A party
   who moves to amend a pleading shall attach the original of the
   amendment, and two copies, to the motion. Any amendment to a pleading,
   whether filed as a matter of course or upon a motion to amend, must,
   except by leave of court, reproduce the entire pleading 15 as amended,
   and may not incorporate any prior pleading by reference. A failure to
   comply with this rule is not grounds for denial of the motion, but may
   be grounds for imposition of sanctions. LR 16.2CJ - Case Management and
   Pretrial Conferences a. Definitions. 1. "Differentiated Case
   Management" ("DCM") is a system providing for management of cases based
   on case characteristics. This system is marked by the following
   features: during the Case Management Conference the court and attorneys
   for the parties review and screen the civil case and channel the case
   to processing "tracks" which provide an appropriate level of judicial,
   staff, and attorney attention; each track employs a case management
   plan tailored to the general requirements of similarly situated cases;
   and provision is made for the initial track assignment to be adjusted
   to meet the special needs of any particular case. See LR 16.2CJc,
   infra. 2. "Case Management Conference" is the conference conducted by
   the judge within thirty (30) calendar days after the time for the
   filing of the last permissible responsive pleading where track
   assignment, Alternative Dispute Resolution ("ADR") and discovery are
   discussed, and where discovery and motion deadlines and the date of the
   status hearing are set. See LR 16.2CJe, infra. 3. "Status Conference"
   is the mandatory conference that is held approximately midway between
   the date of the Case Management Conference and the discovery cut-off
   date. 16 4. "Case Management Plan" ("CMP") is the plan adopted by the
   judge at the Case Management Conference. The CMP shall include all
   matters set forth in Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(a), and may include all matters
   set forth in Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(c), as well as the determination of track
   assignments. 5. "Dispositive Motion" shall mean a motion to dismiss
   pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b), a motion for judgment on the pleadings
   pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(c), a motion for summary judgment pursuant
   to Fed.R.Civ.P. 56, or any other motion which, if granted, would result
   in the entry of judgment or dismissal, would dispose of any claims or
   defenses, or would terminate the litigation. 6. "Discovery cut-off" is
   the date by which all responses to written discovery shall be due and
   by which all depositions shall be concluded. Counsel must initiate
   discovery requests and notice or subpoena depositions sufficiently in
   advance of the discovery cut-off date so as to comply with this rule,
   and discovery requests that seek responses or schedule depositions
   after the discovery cut-off are not enforceable except by order of the
   court for good cause shown. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a party
   seeking discovery will not be deemed to be in violation of the
   discovery cut-off if all parties consent to delay furnishing the
   requested discovery until after the cut-off date or if, for example, a
   deposition that was commenced prior to the cut-off date and adjourned
   cannot reasonably be resumed until an agreed date beyond the discovery
   cut-off; provided, however, that the parties may not, by stipulation
   and without the consent of the court, extend the discovery cut-off to a
   date later than ten (10) days before the Final Pretrial Conference.
   Other dates shall not be affected by agreements to extend the 17
   discovery deadline. b. Assertive Judicial Management. The judge shall
   manage the pretrial activity of the case through direct involvement in
   the establishment, supervision, and enforcement of a Case Management
   Plan. The judge shall: 1. Timely convene and conduct a Case Management
   Conference; 2. Assess the complexity of the case and the anticipated
   discovery attendant to the case, and in consultation with counsel for
   the parties implement a Case Management Plan which establishes
   deadlines, to the extent possible. c. Tracks, Evaluation, and
   Assignment of Cases. 1. Number and Types of Tracks. (a) "Expedited" -
   Cases on the Expedited Track shall be completed within six (6) months
   or less after filing, and shall have a discovery cut-off no later than
   sixty (60) days prior to trial. Discovery guidelines for this track
   include interrogatories limited to fifteen (15) single-part questions;
   fifteen (15) requests for admission; depositions of the parties;
   depositions on written questions of custodians of business records for
   non-parties; no more than one (1) fact witness deposition per party
   without prior approval of the court; and such other discovery, if any,
   as may be provided for in the CMP. (b) "Standard" - Cases on the
   Standard Track shall be completed within twelve (12) months or less
   after filing, and shall have a discovery cut-off no later than sixty
   (60) days prior to trial. Discovery guidelines for this track include
   18 interrogatories limited to thirty (30) single-part questions; thirty
   (30) requests for admission; depositions of the parties; depositions on
   written questions of custodians of business records for non-parties; no
   more than three (3) fact witness depositions per party without prior
   approval of the court; and such other discovery, if any, as may be
   provided for in the CMP. (c) "Complex" - Cases on the Complex Track
   shall have the discovery cut-off established in the CMP and shall have
   a case completion goal of no more than eighteen (18) months. Discovery
   guidelines for this track include interrogatories limited to fifty (50)
   single-part questions; fifty (50) requests for admission; depositions
   of the parties; depositions on written questions of custodians of
   business records for non-parties; and such additional depositions and
   discovery to be set at the conference. 2. Evaluation and Assignment of
   Cases; Criteria. The court shall consider and apply the following
   factors in assigning cases to a particular track: (a) Expedited: (1)
   Legal Issues: Few and clear (2) Required Discovery: Limited (3) Number
   of Real Parties in Interest: Few (4) Number of Fact Witnesses: Up to
   five (5) (5) Expert Witnesses: None (6) Likely Trial Days: Less than
   five (5) (7) Suitability for ADR: High 19 (8) Character and Nature of
   Damage Claims: Usually a fixed amount (b) Standard: (1) Legal Issues:
   More than a few, some unsettled (2) Required Discovery: Routine (3)
   Number of Real Parties in Interest: Up to five (5) (4) Number of Fact
   Witnesses: Up to ten (10) (5) Expert Witnesses: Two (2) or three (3)
   (6) Likely Trial Days: Five (5) to ten (10) (7) Suitability for ADR:
   Moderate to high (8) Character and Nature of Damage Claims: Routine (c)
   Complex: (1) Legal Issues: Numerous, complicated, and possibly unique
   (2) Required Discovery: Extensive (3) Number of Real Parties in
   Interest: More than five (5) (4) Number of Fact Witnesses: More than
   ten (10) (5) Expert Witnesses: More than three (3) (6) Likely Trial
   Days: More than ten (10) (7) Suitability for ADR: Moderate (8)
   Character and Nature of Damage Claims: Usually requiring expert
   testimony. 3. Evaluation and Assignment. The court shall evaluate and
   screen each civil case in accordance with this Section. The recommended
   track assignment will 20 be sent to counsel with the notice of the Case
   Management Conference. At the Case Management Conference, after
   discussion with counsel, the court will assign the case to one of the
   case management tracks. d. Mandatory Pre-Discovery Disclosure. [See
   also LR 26 for discovery-related rules.] In order to facilitate the
   implementation of an informed Case Management Plan, and in accordance
   with Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(f), every party shall, not less than fourteen (14)
   days prior to the date set for the Case Management Conference, file and
   serve a pre-discovery disclosure statement, setting forth the
   information required to be disclosed pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(a).
   (1) Methods to Discover Additional Matter. Parties may obtain discovery
   by one or more of the following methods: depositions upon oral
   examination or written questions; written interrogatories; production
   of documents or things or permission to enter upon land or other
   property under Fed.R.Civ.P. 34 or 45(a)(1)(C), for inspection and other
   purposes; physical and mental examinations; and, requests for
   admission. Discovery at a place within a country having a treaty with
   the United States applicable to the discovery must be conducted by
   methods authorized by the treaty except that, if the court determines
   that those methods are inadequate or inequitable, it may authorize
   other discovery methods not prohibited by the treaty. (2) Methods of
   Resolving Discovery Disputes. In conducting depositions, all parties
   should be mindful of the provisions of Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b)(1), relating
   to the scope of discovery, and the provisions of Fed.R.Civ.P. 32(b),
   which allows 21 the parties to reserve many objections until the time
   of trial. Attention is directed to the provisions of LR 26, which
   requires counsel to meet and confer before a discovery motion is filed.
   Notwithstanding any other provision in the Local Rules, at the option
   of the moving party, discovery disputes that remain unresolved after a
   good faith effort by counsel to resolve them shall be decided on oral
   motion, or on the basis of memoranda not to exceed two typewritten,
   double-spaced pages. The court will act promptly upon a motion so made.
   Such action may include a ruling upon the motion, or such other orders
   as may be appropriate, including but not limited to an order requiring
   the parties to file additional briefs and granting additional time to
   respond. The moving party is responsible for coordinating the date and
   time of the hearing with the court and opposing parties. The court
   will, upon oral or written motion, resolve disputes regarding the
   date/time of hearing. e. Case Management Conference ("CMC"); Informed
   Participation by Counsel for All Parties at Case Management Conference.
   1. Order Setting Case Management Conference. Within thirty (30)
   calendar days after the time for the filing of the last permissible
   responsive pleading, the court shall issue an order setting a Case
   Management Conference. (a) Telephone Conferencing. Upon request (made
   at least one full calendar week prior to the hearing date) of any
   attorney who does not reside on the island of Saipan, or who is
   temporarily absent from Saipan, the court, in its 22 discretion, may
   hold by telephone the CMC and other conferences, and any scheduled
   argument on motions. Telephone conferencing is encouraged when that
   practice will save the attorneys, parties, or court time and money. 2.
   Case Management Conference Statement; Duty of Parties. Counsel for all
   parties shall be required to file a written statement no later than
   five (5) calendar days in advance of the Case Management Conference
   that specifically addresses all matters critical to the development of
   a realistic and efficient Case Management Plan and which are
   specifically set forth below and in Fed.R.Civ.P. 16 (b) and (c): (a)
   Service of process on parties not yet served; (b) Jurisdiction and
   venue; (c) Anticipated motions; (d) Appropriateness of special
   procedures such as consolidation of actions for discovery or pretrial;
   (e) Modifications of the standard pretrial procedures specified by this
   Rule on account of the relative simplicity or complexity of the action
   or proceeding; (f) Settlement prospects; and, (g) Any other matter
   which may be conducive to the just, efficient and economical
   determination of the proceeding, including the definition or limitation
   of issues; (1) Continuances. Unless otherwise ordered, LR 7.1.h governs
   23 continuances of status conferences. 3. Representation At Conference
   by Attorney with Authority to Bind. Pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(a), the
   attorney for a party participating in a Case Management Conference or
   any other pretrial conference shall have authority to enter into
   stipulations and to make admissions regarding all matters that the
   participants may reasonably anticipate may be discussed, including: (a)
   Whether any issue exists concerning venue or jurisdiction over the
   subject matter or the person; (b) Whether all parties have been
   properly designated and served; (c) Whether all counsel have filed
   appearances; (d) Whether any issue exists concerning joinder of parties
   or claims; (e) Whether any party contemplates adding further parties;
   (f) The factual bases and legal theories for the claims and the
   defenses involved in the case; (g) The type and extent of damages being
   sought; (h) Whether any question exists concerning appointment of a
   guardian ad litem, next friend, administrator, executor, receiver, or
   trustee; (I) The extent of the discovery undertaken to date; (j) The
   extent and timing of anticipated future discovery, including, in
   appropriate cases, a proposed schedule for the taking of depositions,
   serving of interrogatories and motions to produce, etc.; (k)
   Identification of anticipated witnesses or persons then known to have
   24 pertinent information; (l) Whether any discovery disputes are
   anticipated; (m) The time reasonably expected to be required for
   completion of all discovery; (n) The existence and prospect of any
   pretrial motions, including dispositive motions; (o) Whether a trial by
   jury has been demanded in a timely fashion; (p) Whether it would be
   useful to separate claims, defenses, or issues for trial or discovery;
   (q) Whether related actions are pending or contemplated; (r) The
   estimated time required for trial; (s) Whether special verdicts will be
   needed at trial and, if so, the issues verdict forms will have to
   address; (t) A report on settlement prospects, including the prospect
   of disposition without trial through any process, the status of
   settlement negotiations, and the advisability of a formal mediation or
   settlement conference either before or at the completion of discovery;
   (u) The advisability of court-ordered mediation or early neutral
   evaluation proceedings, where available; and (v) The advisability of
   use of a court-appointed expert or master to aid in administration or
   settlement efforts. (w) Additional Matters by Specific Order. By
   specific order, the judge 25 also may require participation in a
   settlement conference, and may require preparation to discuss any other
   matter that appears to be likely to further the just, speedy, and
   inexpensive resolution of the case, including notification to the
   parties of the estimated fees and expenses likely to be incurred if the
   matter proceeds to trial. 4. Case Management Conference Order. At the
   conclusion of the Case Management Conference the judge shall
   immediately enter an order summarizing the matters discussed and action
   taken to establish the Case Management Plan. The order will govern
   further proceedings. Copies of the order shall be served on all parties
   who have made an appearance. 5. Settlement Conferences; Mandatory
   Consideration. The court will routinely set a date for a settlement
   conference; however, any party may also file a request for an
   additional settlement conference. (a) Mandatory Attendance by
   Representatives With Full Authority to Effect Settlement. Each party
   shall be required to attend the settlement conference, either
   personally or through a representative with full authority to
   participate in settlement negotiations and to effect a complete
   compromise of the case. (b) Attendance of Party. The judge may require
   the attendance or availability of the parties, pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P.
   16(c). (c) Judge. The judge may, in his or her discretion, preside over
   the 26 settlement conference. 6. Additional Pretrial Conferences;
   Objections Thereto. In addition to the Case Management Conference, and
   pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(a), other pretrial conferences may be held
   in any proceeding when the judge so orders by issuing a status
   conference order on the judge's own motion or by any other order issued
   at the written request of any party. If a party files a request, the
   party shall serve a copy upon all other parties, who shall have five
   (5) days from the date of service within which to respond to the
   request. 7. Pretrial Preparation; Duty of Parties. (a) Unless the judge
   otherwise orders, not less than fourteen (14) calendar days before the
   first scheduled trial date each party shall: (1) Serve and file briefs
   on all significant disputed issues of law, including foreseeable
   procedural and evidentiary issues, setting forth briefly the party's
   position and supporting authorities; (2) In jury cases, serve and file
   proposed voir dire questions, jury instructions and forms of verdict;
   (3) Serve and file statements to be offered at the trial other than for
   impeachment or rebuttal designating excerpts from depositions
   (specifying the witness and page/line reference), from interrogatory
   answers, and from responses to requests for admission; (4) Exchange
   copies of all exhibits to be offered and all schedules, 27 summaries,
   diagrams, and charts to be used at trial other than for impeachment or
   rebuttal. Each proposed exhibit shall be pre-marked for identification
   in a manner clearly distinguishing plaintiff's exhibits from
   defendant's exhibits. Upon request, a party shall make the original of
   any exhibit available for inspection and copying. (b) In non-jury
   cases, the parties may serve and file proposed findings of fact and
   conclusions of law in addition to the material required by subsection
   (a) of this Rule. The court may also direct that findings and
   conclusions be filed. (c) Objections to Proposed Testimony and
   Exhibits. Promptly after receiving statements and exhibits pursuant to
   the rule above, any party proposing to object to the admission in
   evidence of any proposed testimony or exhibit shall advise the opposing
   party of the objection. The parties shall confer in advance of trial
   with respect to any objections and attempt to resolve them. They shall
   advise the court of any unresolved objections and make reasonable
   efforts to present the matters to the court in advance of trial for
   ruling. 8. Final Pretrial Conference. Pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(d), a
   final pretrial conference shall be held not later than seven (7) days
   before the scheduled trial date, unless deemed unnecessary by the court
   and counsel. (a) Individuals Attending. Unless excused by the judge,
   each 28 unrepresented party shall be present at the final pretrial
   conference and a party with counsel shall be represented by at least
   one counsel who will conduct the trial. Counsel shall have full
   authority from their clients with respect to settlement and shall be
   prepared to advise the judge as to the prospects of settlement. 9.
   Final Pretrial Order. The following issues shall be discussed at the
   final pretrial conference and shall be included in the final pretrial
   order, which order shall be prepared jointly by the parties for the
   signature of the judge: (a) The firm trial date; (b) Stipulated and
   uncontroverted facts; (c) List of issues to be tried; (d) Disclosure of
   all witnesses; (e) Listing and exchange of copies of all exhibits; (f)
   Pretrial rulings, where possible, on objections to evidence; (g)
   Disposition of all outstanding motions; (h) Elimination of unnecessary
   or redundant proof, including limitations on expert witnesses; (I)
   Itemized statements of all damages by all parties; (j) Bifurcation of
   the trial; (k) Limits on the length of trial; (l) Jury selection
   issues; 29 (m) Any issue that in the judge's opinion may facilitate and
   expedite the trial, for example the feasibility of presenting testimony
   by a summary written statement; and, (n) The date when proposed jury
   instructions shall be submitted to the court and opposing counsel,
   which, unless otherwise ordered, shall be the first day of the trial.
   LR 16.3CJ Trial Date; Presumptive 1. It shall be the policy of the
   court to utilize all available judicial resources to allow the court to
   adhere to an established trial date. 2. An established trial date shall
   not be vacated unless there exists a compelling reason necessitating a
   continuance. 3. When the court is unable to convene trial as scheduled
   the court shall, as soon as practicable, take the following action: (a)
   Determine if another judge would be available to preside over the trial
   on the date scheduled; or (b) Convene a status conference for the
   purpose of advising counsel and the parties of the necessity to
   consider vacating the trial date; or (c) Establish a new trial date
   which will not unnecessarily inconvenience either counsel or the
   parties. 30 LR 16.11CJ Alternative Dispute Resolution: Non-Binding
   Summary Jury Trials. a. Eligible Cases. Any civil case triable to a
   jury may be assigned for summary jury trial. b. Selection of Cases. A
   case may be selected for summary jury trial: 1. By the court at the
   Case Management Conference; or 2. At any time: a. By the court on its
   own motion; b. By the court, on the motion of one of the parties; or c.
   By stipulation of all parties. c. Procedural Considerations. Summary
   jury trial is a flexible ADR process. The procedures to be followed
   shall be determined in advance by the judge in light of the
   circumstances of the case. The following matters will be considered by
   the judge and counsel in structuring a summary jury trial: 1.
   Scheduling. Ordinarily a case will be set for summary jury trial when
   discovery is substantially completed and conventional pretrial
   negotiations have failed to achieve settlement. In some cases,
   settlement prospects may be advanced by setting the case for an early
   summary jury trial. To facilitate an early summary jury trial, limited
   and expedited discovery shall be obtained to accommodate earlier
   settlement potential. The summary jury trial will usually precede the
   trial by approximately sixty (60) days. 2. Judge. The summary jury
   trial shall be conducted by the judge to whom the case is assigned or
   referred. 31 3. Submission of Written Materials. Certain materials
   shall be submitted to the court before the summary jury trial begins.
   These will usually include a statement of the case, stipulations,
   exhibits, and proposed jury instructions. 4. Attendance. Each
   individual who is a party shall attend the summary jury trial in
   person. When a party is other than an individual or when a party's
   interests are being represented by an insurance company, an authorized
   representative of the party or insurance company, with full authority
   to settle, shall attend. 5. Size of Jury Panel. The jury will usually
   consist of six (6) jurors. To accommodate case concerns, the size of
   the jury panel may vary. Because the summary jury trial is usually
   concluded in a day or less, and to provide the court and counsel with
   additional juror reaction, the judge may choose to use the challenged
   or unused panel members as a second jury. 6. Voir Dire. Parties will
   ordinarily be permitted some limited voir dire. The number of
   challenges to jurors, if any, will be determined in advance. 7. Opening
   Statements. Each party will have an opportunity to make a brief opening
   statement to help put the case into perspective. If possible, voir dire
   and the opening statement will be combined into one procedure, with
   fifteen (15) minutes allotted for each party. 8. Transcript or
   Recording. A party may cause a transcript or recording to be made of
   the proceedings at the party's expense, but no transcript of the
   proceedings may be submitted in evidence at any subsequent trial unless
   the 32 evidence would be otherwise admissible under the Federal Rules
   of Evidence. 9. Case Presentations. As this is not a full trial, it is
   expected that counsel will present a condensed narrative summary of the
   entire case, consisting of an amalgamation of an opening statement,
   evidentiary presentations, and final arguments. In this presentation
   counsel may present exhibits, or read excerpts from exhibits, reports,
   and depositions, all of which evidentiary submissions should be subject
   to the approval of the judge by addressing motions in limine at a
   reasonable time in advance of the scheduled summary jury trial. This
   advanced consideration permits the summary jury trial to proceed
   uninterrupted by objections. Generally, live non-party witnesses will
   not be permitted, although an exception may be made by the judge. An
   attorney certifies that offering any such summary of testimony or
   evidence is based upon a good faith belief and a reasonable
   investigation that the testimony or evidence would be available and
   admissible at trial. 10. Jury Instructions. Jury instructions will be
   given. They will be adapted to reflect the nature of the proceeding.
   11. Jury Deliberations. Jury deliberations will be limited in time.
   Jurors will be encouraged to reach a consensus verdict. If that is not
   possible, separate verdicts may give the parties a sense of how jurors
   view the case. 12. Verdict. The jury may issue an advisory opinion
   regarding liability or damages, or both. Unless the parties agree
   otherwise, the advisory opinion is not binding and is not appealable.
   33 13. De-briefing the Jurors. After the verdict, the judge shall
   initiate and encourage a discussion of the case by the parties and the
   jurors. 14. Settlement Negotiations. Within a short time after the
   summary jury trial, the judge and the parties will meet to see whether
   the matter can be compromised. A sufficient period between the end of
   the summary jury trial and the meeting is necessary to allow the
   parties to evaluate matters, but the judge will exercise care not to
   allow too much time to elapse. 15. Trial. If the case does not settle
   as the result of the summary jury trial, it will proceed to trial on
   the scheduled date. 16. Limitation on Admission of Evidence. The judge
   shall not admit at a subsequent trial any evidence that there has been
   a summary jury trial, the nature or amount of any "verdict," or any
   other matter concerning the conduct of the summary jury trial or
   negotiations related to it, unless: a. The evidence would otherwise be
   admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence; or b. The parties have
   otherwise stipulated. 34 IV. Parties LR 17.1 - Infants and Incompetent
   Persons a. Guardians Ad Litem. The judge shall have broad discretion to
   appoint a guardian ad litem. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 17. 1. Appointment
   Procedure. Guardians ad litem may be appointed ex parte, at any time
   upon the presentation to the judge of a sworn petition showing good
   cause for the appointment. An appointment order shall be filed with the
   petition. 2. Person Ineligible to be a Guardian Ad Litem. Except in the
   discretion of the judge, no person shall be appointed guardian ad litem
   if the person has an interest adverse to that of the minor or
   incompetent, or if the person is connected in business with an adverse
   party or with the attorney of the adverse party; or if the person has
   insufficient pecuniary ability to answer to the minor or incompetent
   for any injury which the minor or incompetent may sustain as a result
   of the person's negligence or misconduct. 3. Bond of Guardian Ad Litem.
   Ordinarily, no bond shall be necessary from a guardian ad litem;
   provided, that no guardian shall receive any money or other property of
   the minor or incompetent until the guardian has filed with the clerk a
   bond in an amount fixed by the judge, conditioned for the faithful
   performance of the guardian's duties. If the guardian does not desire
   to receive any money or property of the minor or incompetent, the money
   or property shall be paid or delivered to the clerk or to a person
   directed by the court. Under these circumstance, the payment or
   delivery of the money 35 or property to the clerk shall have the same
   effect as if the money or property had been paid or delivered to the
   guardian. 4. Order of Judgment Required. No action by or on behalf of a
   minor or incompetent shall be dismissed, discontinued, or terminated
   without the court's approval. When required by Commonwealth law, court
   approval shall also be obtained from the appropriate Commonwealth court
   having jurisdiction over the matter for any settlement or other
   disposition of litigation involving a minor or incompetent. LR 23.1 -
   Designation of "Class" in the Caption In any case sought to be
   maintained as a class action, the complaint or other pleading asserting
   a class action shall include next to its caption, the legend "Class
   Action." LR 24.1 - Procedure for Notification of Any Claim of
   Unconstitutionality a. In any action, suit, or proceeding in which the
   United States or any agency, officer, or employee thereof is not a
   party and in which the constitutionality of an Act of Congress
   affecting the public interest is drawn in question, or in any action,
   suit, or proceeding in which the Commonwealth or any agency, officer,
   or employee thereof is not a party, and in which the constitutionality
   of any statute of the Commonwealth affecting the public interest is
   drawn in question, the party raising the constitutional issue shall
   notify the court of the existence of the question either by checking
   the 36 appropriate box on the Civil Cover Sheet or by stating on the
   pleading that alleges the unconstitutionality, immediately following
   the title of that pleading, "Claim of Unconstitutionality," or the
   equivalent. b. Failure to comply with this rule will not be grounds for
   waiving the constitutional issue or for waiving any other rights the
   party may have. Any notice provided under this rule, or lack of notice,
   will not serve as a substitute for, or as a waiver of, any pleading
   requirement set forth in the Federal Rules or statutes. See 28 U.S.C. §
   2403 for complete text. 37 V. Depositions and Discovery NOTE: Discovery
   practice is now governed in large measure by Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(a) and LR
   16.2CJ, supra. The following local rules apply generally; in case of a
   conflict the federal rule controls. LR 26.1 - General Requirements. a.
   Lawyers shall make reasonable efforts to conduct all discovery by
   agreement. b. A lawyer shall not use any form of discovery, or the
   scheduling of discovery, as a means of harassing opposing counsel or
   his or her client. c. Requests for production shall not be excessive or
   designed solely to place a burden on the opposing party. LR 26.2 -
   Scheduling. a. Lawyers shall, when practical, consult with opposing
   counsel before scheduling hearings and depositions, in a good faith
   attempt to avoid scheduling conflicts. b. When scheduling hearings and
   depositions, lawyers shall communicate with opposing counsel in an
   attempt to schedule them at a mutually agreeable time. This practice
   will avoid unnecessary delays, expense to clients, and undue stress to
   lawyers and their secretaries in the management of their calendars and
   practice. c. If a request is made to clear time for a hearing or
   deposition, the lawyer to 38 whom the request is made shall confirm
   that the time is available or advise of a conflict within a reasonable
   time (preferably the same business day, but in any event before the end
   of the following business day). d. Conflicts shall be indicated only
   when they actually exist and the requested time is not available. LR
   26.3 - Exceptions. a. A lawyer who has attempted to comply with this
   Rule is justified in setting a hearing or deposition without agreement
   from opposing counsel if opposing counsel fails or refuses promptly to
   accept or reject a time offered for hearing or deposition. b. If
   opposing counsel raises an unreasonable number of calendar conflicts, a
   lawyer is justified in setting a hearing or deposition without
   agreement from opposing counsel. c. If opposing counsel has
   consistently failed to comply with this guideline, a lawyer is
   justified in setting a hearing or deposition without agreement from
   opposing counsel. d. In cases involving extraordinary remedies where
   time associated with scheduling agreements could cause damage or harm
   to a client's case, a lawyer is justified in setting a hearing or
   deposition without agreement from opposing counsel. 39 LR 26.4 -
   Minimum Notice for Depositions and Hearings. a. Depositions and
   hearings shall not be set with less than one week's notice except by
   agreement of counsel or when a genuine need or emergency exists. b. If
   opposing counsel makes a reasonable request which does not prejudice
   the rights of the client, compliance herewith is appropriate without
   motions, briefs, hearings orders and other formalities and without
   attempting to extract unrelated or unreasonable consideration. LR 26.5
   - Canceling Depositions, Hearings, and Other Discovery Matters. Notice
   of cancellation of depositions and hearings shall be given to the court
   and opposing counsel at the earliest possible time. LR 26.6 - Time
   Deadlines and Extensions. Reasonable extensions of time should be
   granted to opposing counsel where such extension will not have a
   material, adverse effect on the rights of the client. Traditionally,
   members of this bar association have readily granted any reasonable
   request for an extension of time as an accommodation to opposing
   counsel who, because of a busy trial schedule, personal emergency, or
   heavy work load, needs additional time to prepare a response or comply
   with a legal requirement. This tradition should continue; provided,
   however, that no lawyer should request an extension of time solely for
   the purpose of delay or to obtain any unfair advantage. Counsel should
   make every effort to honor previously scheduled off-island trips of
   opposing counsel when such dates have been established in good faith.
   40 LR 26.7 - Interrogatories - Form and Limitation on Number. a. Form.
   The interrogatories shall be so arranged that after each separate
   question shall appear a blank space reasonably calculated to enable the
   answering party to type in the answer. The answering party shall verify
   his or her answers to said interrogatories immediately following the
   answer to the last interrogatory so propounded. b. Limitation on
   Number. Prior to the filing of a responsive pleading, no party shall
   serve on any other party interrogatories which, including
   subparagraphs, number more than fifteen (15), without prior leave of
   court. Subparagraphs of any interrogatory shall relate directly to the
   subject matter of the main interrogatory. These interrogatories shall
   be included in the total number of interrogatories allowed by the
   case's track assignment. Any party desiring to serve additional
   interrogatories prior to the filing of a responsive pleading shall
   submit to the court a written memorandum setting forth the proposed
   additional interrogatories and the reasons establishing good cause for
   their use. LR 26.8 - Answers and Objections to Interrogatories. a.
   Answers to Interrogatories. The party to whom interrogatories are
   directed shall answer each interrogatory within the space so provided
   or using additional pages, if necessary, and thereafter shall serve the
   copy of the same upon all parties. b. Objections to Interrogatories or
   Answers. 1. A party objecting to written interrogatories shall set
   forth each interrogatory 41 objected to followed by his or her
   objection and the reasons for it. 2. A party objecting to answers shall
   set forth each answer objected to as well as the interrogatory to which
   it relates, followed by the objection and the reasons for it. LR 26.9 -
   Answers and Objections to Requests for Admission. Responses and
   objections to requests for admission or answers thereto pursuant to
   Fed.R.Civ.P. 36 shall identify and quote each request for admission in
   full immediately preceding the statement of any answer or objection to
   the request for admission. LR 26.10 - Abuse of or Failure to Make
   Discovery; Sanctions. a. Conference Required. The court will entertain
   no motion under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 26 through 37 unless
   counsel have previously met and conferred concerning all disputed
   issues. If counsel for the moving party seeks to arrange a conference
   and counsel for the party against whom the motion is made refuses or
   fails to meet and confer, the court may order the payment of reasonable
   expenses, including attorney fees, pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(a)(4)
   and LR 1.3. b. Certificate of Compliance. When filing any motion under
   Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 26 through 37, counsel for the moving
   party shall certify compliance with this Rule. 42 LR 26.12 -
   Depositions for Use in Judicial Proceedings. Applications may be made
   ex parte for the designation, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §1782, of a
   Commissioner to take the deposition of a person within this District
   for use in a judicial proceeding pending in the court of a foreign
   country. If the court in which the proceeding is pending has appointed
   a person to take the deposition, that person will be designated, unless
   there is good cause for refusing such designation. The Commissioner
   shall certify and mail the deposition to the foreign court in
   accordance with the applicable Federal Rule of Civil Procedure, and
   file proof of mailing with the clerk. LR 26.13 - Filing of Discovery
   Materials. Whether or not discovery materials shall be filed will be
   determined on a case- by-case basis, and addressed in the court's case
   scheduling order. 43 VI. Trials LR 41.1 - Dismissal of Actions. In
   addition to dismissals pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 41, if a proceeding has
   been pending for more than six (6) months without any action taken by
   the parties during that period, upon notice to the parties the court
   may dismiss the proceeding for lack of prosecution. The court may order
   dismissal at any calendar call. The dismissal shall be without
   prejudice. LR 53.2 - Arbitration/Alternate Dispute Resolution (See LR
   16.11CJ, supra) 44 VII. Judgment LR 54.1 - Taxation of Costs. a.
   Application to the Clerk. Within ten (10) calendar days after the entry
   of a judgment allowing costs the prevailing party shall serve on the
   attorney for the adverse party and file with the clerk an application
   for the taxation of costs. The application shall be on a Bill of Costs
   form prescribed by the court, which shall be furnished by the clerk. If
   an application for costs is received which is not on the appropriate
   form, the clerk shall file the application as presented and promptly
   notify the party seeking costs that it was filed on the wrong form. The
   clerk shall accompany such notification with the proper form and
   instruct the party to file the application on the proper form within
   five (5) days. The application shall contain an itemized schedule of
   costs in a sworn statement signed by the attorney for the applicant
   that the schedule is correct and that the costs were necessarily
   incurred. The application shall be heard by the clerk not less than
   five (5) nor more than ten (10) calendar days after it is served, and
   notice of the time of hearing shall be endorsed upon it. A failure to
   comply with this Rule waives the right to recover all costs, other than
   the clerk's costs, which may be inserted in the judgment without
   application. At the option of the clerk the hearing may be held by
   telephone conference call. b. Depositions. In taxing costs of
   depositions, the clerk shall allow the fees of the court reporter at
   the rates specified by the Judicial Conference of the United States, or
   the actual fees paid by the prevailing party, whichever is less, for
   the originals of any 45 depositions which were taken in the case at the
   instance of the prevailing party and filed with the court, unless it
   appears from the general content of the deposition that it was not
   reasonably necessary for the development of the case in light of the
   situation existing at the time of its taking. In any case in which the
   judge has entered a special protective order, the clerk, using the rate
   specified in the preceding paragraph, shall tax costs for the original
   of any deposition taken by the prevailing party which was taken by
   reason of entry of such protective order. The clerk or the court may
   refuse to tax the cost of transcribing direct examination or
   cross-examination which is unreasonably prolonged or irrelevant. By
   including deposition costs in the application, counsel for the
   prevailing party will be deemed to have certified that the deposition
   or depositions involved were reasonably necessary, when taken, to the
   development of the case. In the absence of an objection from the
   adverse party, the clerk may presume that any depositions for which
   costs are claimed were reasonably necessary for the development of the
   case and do not contain unreasonably prolonged or irrelevant
   examination. c. Transcripts. In taxing costs of transcripts the clerk
   shall allow fees of the court reporter at the rate specified by the
   Judicial Conference of the United States, or the actual fees paid by
   the prevailing party for the original or any portion of the transcript
   furnished to the court, unless it appears that the transcript was not
   necessarily obtained for use in the case. In the absence of an
   objection from the adverse party, the clerk may presume that any
   portion of the transcript for which costs are claimed was reasonably 46
   necessary for the development of the case. d. Fees and Disbursements
   for Witnesses. A party entitled to recover costs shall be entitled to
   recover the statutory fees and allowances for necessary witnesses as
   provided in 28 U.S.C. §1821 or its successor. Such statutory fees and
   allowances will be taxable costs for each day that a witness is in
   attendance at court to testify at trial. In the case of expert
   witnesses, the party seeking costs will be entitled to recover only the
   statutory fees and mileage for such witnesses unless the judge orders
   otherwise prior to the time costs are sought. Mileage will be allowed
   for witnesses at the statutory rate for all necessary travel within the
   district. Mileage will be allowed for out-of-state witnesses from the
   point of entering the district to the place of trial. e. Fees for
   Exemplification and Copies of Papers Necessarily Obtained for Use in
   the Case. Reasonable fees for exemplification and copies of exhibit
   evidence such as charts, drawings, maps, photographs, movies, and
   models, etc., which were reasonably necessary to the presentation of
   the prevailing party's case will be allowed as costs. In taxing the
   costs the clerk will presume that exhibit evidence used at the trial
   was reasonably necessary to the presentation of the case, and that
   exhibit evidence not so used was not reasonably necessary to the
   presentation of the case. f. Bond Premiums. The party entitled to
   recover costs shall ordinarily be allowed premiums paid on
   undertakings, bonds or security stipulations, where the same have been
   furnished by reason of express requirement of the law, or an order of
   the court or a judge thereof, where the same are reasonably required to
   enable the party to 47 secure some right accorded the party in the
   action or proceedings. In taxing costs the clerk will presume that the
   premiums for all bonds which are on file and of record in the case are
   allowable as costs. g. Other Costs. Items of costs not specifically
   mentioned in this Rule shall be taxed by the clerk in accordance with
   the laws of the United States. h. Objections. Specific objections,
   supported by affidavits or other written evidence, may be made to any
   item of costs. The clerk shall thereupon tax the costs, and if there is
   no appeal, shall insert the amount of costs taxed in the blank left in
   the judgment, and also in the docket. I. Review. A dissatisfied party
   may appeal upon written motion served within five (5) calendar days of
   the clerk's decision as provided in Fed.R.Civ.P. 54(d). The motion
   shall specify all objections to the clerk's decision and the reasons
   for the objections. Appeals shall be heard by the court upon the same
   papers and evidence submitted to the clerk. LR 54.2 - Jury Cost
   Assessment; Settlement Immediately Prior to Trial. Pursuant to the
   court's authority under 28 U.S.C. § 2071 and Fed.R.Civ.P. 83, whenever
   any civil action scheduled for jury trial is settled or otherwise
   disposed of in advance of the date set for trial, then, except for good
   cause shown, juror costs, including marshal's fees, mileage, air fare,
   per diem, and other related costs, shall be assessed equally against
   the parties or otherwise assessed as directed by the court, unless the
   clerk's office has been notified in writing at least ten full business
   days prior to the day on which the action is scheduled 48 for trial, in
   time to advise the jurors that it will not be necessary for them to
   attend. Failure to notify the clerk's office may subject counsel, in
   addition to the costs set forth above, to such sanctions as may be
   deemed appropriate by the court under the circumstances. LR 56.1 -
   Summary Judgment Procedure. The following procedures shall be followed
   with respect to motions for summary judgment: a. The moving or
   cross-moving party shall file, together with its motion, a separate
   document entitled "Proposed Findings of Uncontroverted Fact." This
   document shall contain concise, separately numbered paragraphs setting
   forth all of the material facts upon which the party bases its motion
   and as to which the party in good faith believes there is no genuine
   dispute. Each paragraph shall contain citations to the opposing party's
   pleadings or to documentary evidence, such as affidavits or exhibits,
   filed with the motion or otherwise part of the record in the case. b.
   The opposing party shall file, together with its opposition or
   cross-motion, a separate document entitled "Statement of Genuine
   Issues." This document shall respond by reference to specific paragraph
   numbers of movant's proposed findings of uncontroverted fact as to
   which it claims there is a genuine dispute. The party shall state the
   precise nature of its disagreement and give its version of the events,
   supported by record citations, as above. The opposing party may also
   file proposed findings of uncontroverted fact as to any relevant
   matters not covered by the moving party's statement. 49 c. The parties
   may dispense with the documents called for in subdivisions 1. and 2.,
   above, if they file, no later than the time of the initial motion, a
   comprehensive stipulation of all of the material facts upon which they
   intend to rely. In determining any motion for summary judgment, the
   court will, absent persuasive reason to the contrary, deem the material
   facts claimed and adequately supported by the moving party to be
   established, except to the extent that such material facts are included
   in the Statement of Genuine Issues and are controverted by affidavit or
   other written or oral evidence. LR 62.1 - Supersedeas Bonds a.
   Nonresidents. Every nonresident filing a complaint shall within ten
   (10) calendar days after demand of an adverse party file with the
   complaint a bond for costs in the sum of $500 unless for good cause, on
   motion (which may be made ex parte), the court dispenses with the bond
   or fixes a different amount. The bond shall have sufficient surety and
   shall be conditioned to secure the payment of all costs of the action
   which the party ultimately may be required to pay to any other party.
   After the bond is filed, any opposing party may raise objections to its
   form or to the sufficiency of the surety for determination by the
   clerk. If the bond is found to be insufficient, the court may order the
   filing of a sufficient bond within a specified time. If the order is
   not complied with, the clerk shall enter dismissal of the action as in
   a case of dismissal for want of prosecution. b. Other Parties. On its
   own motion or a party's motion, the court may order 50 any party to
   file a bond for costs in an amount and under conditions designated by
   the court. c. Qualifications of Surety. Every bond for costs under
   these Rules must have as surety either (1) a cash deposit equal to the
   amount of the bond or (2) a corporation authorized by the Secretary of
   the Treasury of the United States to act as surety on official bonds
   under the Act of August 13, 1984 (28 Stat. 279), as amended, 6 U.S.C.
   §§1-13, or (3) two individual residents of the Northern Mariana
   Islands, each of whom owns real or personal property within the
   Northern Mariana Islands sufficient in value above encumbrances to
   justify the full amount of the suretyship, or (4) any insurance,
   surety, or bonding company licensed to do business in the Northern
   Mariana Islands. d. Suits by Indigent Persons. At the time application
   is made, under laws allowing indigent persons leave to commence civil
   proceedings without pre-paying fees and costs or giving security for
   them, the applicant shall file a written consent that any recovery in
   the proceeding shall, as the court may direct, be paid to the clerk,
   who may pay unpaid fees and costs taxed against the plaintiff and, to
   plaintiff's attorney, the amount which the court allows or approves as
   compensation for the attorney's services. 51 VIII. Provisional and
   Final Remedies and Special Proceedings LR 66.1 - Receiverships a.
   Appointment of Receivers. Application for the appointment of a receiver
   may be made after the complaint has been filed and the summons issued.
   1. Emergency Receivers. An emergency receiver may be appointed without
   notice to the party sought to be subjected to a receivership in
   accordance with the requirements and limitations of the Fed.R.Civ.P.
   66. As soon thereafter as may be practicable, the party who obtained
   the emergency receive
