http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami/Sea_level_1997_98/sea_level_1997_98.html

       NOAA

               U.S. Dept. of Commerce / NOAA / OAR / ERL / PMEL / OERD

            1997-98 El Nino Sea Level

         Monthly Mean Sea level for U.S. West Coast, Alaska, Hawaii

                          U.S. WEST COAST

                                          ALASKA

                              HAWAII

                                         ALEUTIANS

   The 1997-98 El Nino has caused higher water levels along the U.S. West
   Coast and parts of Alaska. It followed the pattern of many previous El
   Ninos, with high seasonal sea level during the winter in these regions
   but not in Hawaii. In April-May it returned to normal, or slightly
   below normal, levels. To track seasonal sea level, we show plots of
   monthly mean sea level (MMSL) observed at selected NOAA tide gauges
   along the West Coast, as well as Alaska and Hawaii. To provide a
   perspective on these observations, the plots also include the average
   and maximum MMSL that were observed at the same tide stations during
   the previous 22 years, 1975-96. This period includes the major 1982-83
   El Nino. In the plots, the zero-line is the average sea level for
   1975-96. The 30-cm interval for sea level height corresponds closely to
   one foot, since 1 ft = 30.48 cm.

   Research on sea level in the North Pacific shows that El Ninos affect
   MMSL in two ways. The first is via a layer of warm water, lying off the
   coast, that elevates the coastal water level. Such layers tend to be
   very persistent off the West Coast because the ocean currents there are
   relatively weak and the thermal anomalies often penetrate well down
   into the water column. This thermal rise in coastal water levels
   dominates Southern California and Hawaii. The second effect is the
   response to El Nino weather patterns, especially atmospheric pressure
   and winds. In particular, high sea level is the response to seasonally
   low atmospheric pressure and prevailing northward winds along the
   coast. The weather response dominates from central California to
   southern Alaska and is strongest during late fall and winter. In the
   plots, please note the similarity across large sections of the coast,
   indicating the broad-scale nature of the seasonal sea level response to
   El Nino.

   The water levels are measured by NOAA tide gauges. These data are
   available on-line from the NOS/Oceanographic and Services Division and
   the University of Hawaii Sea Level Center. There is a delay of 2-4
   weeks after a given month has ended before the verified data appear
   on-line. Unverified data are used for the latest month shown in the
   plots and are subject to important disclaimers that are stated by the
   NOS/Oceanographic and Services Division. Information on El Nino for the
   West Coast of Canada is provided by the Ocean Science and Productivity
   Division El Nino Watch.

   The actual water level that occurs at a coastal site is the sum of
   seasonal sea level, the astronomical tides and the shorter-period
   responses to weather forcing, especially winter storms. While the
   seasonal sea level variations are very broad-scale, there can be
   substantial regional variations in the tides and storm surges. Such
   regional variations occur in San Francisco Bay and Puget Sound. In
   terms of potential coastal flooding, the periods of special concern are
   when high-range spring tides coincide with high seasonal sea level and
   frequent storms. For the present El Nino, these are the spring-tide
   periods of January, February, and March 1998. Forecasts of coastal
   flooding are provided by NOAA's National Weather Service.

   Given below are some useful references to the scientific literature
   that include citations of research on seasonal and short-period
   variations in sea level:

        Chelton, D.B., and R.E. Davis, Monthly mean sea-level variations
   along the north coast of North America, Journal of Physical
   Oceanography, 12, 757-784, 1982.
        Emery, W.J., and K. Hamilton, Atmospheric forcing of interannual
   variability in the northeast Pacific Ocean: connection with El Nino,
   Journal of Geophysical Research, 857-868, 1985.
        Mofjeld, H.O., Subtidal sea level fluctuations in a large fjord
   system, Journal of Geophysical Research, 97, 20,191-20,199, 1992.
        Percival, D.B., and H.O. Mofjeld, Analysis of subtidal coastal sea
   level fluctuations using wavelets, Journal of the American Statistical
   Association, 92, 868-880, 1997.

     * PMEL Home Page
     * PMEL El Nino Page
     * PMEL Tsunami Page

   Contact: H.O.Mofjeld Web: J. Newman
