http://www.ma.doe.gov/energy100/health/10.html

         Main Category

                                                               Home

                         Energy@23 Award Nomination
                     308 nm Excimer Laser System - 1983


                                    photo

                                  ABSTRACT:

    [star_n.gif] The recognition by three DOE scientists in 1986 that the
        near-ultraviolet radiation of the 308 nm excimer laser can be
        transmitted with very little loss of energy through a quartz
    fiber-optic catheter made possible the application of laser surgical
     procedures to cardiovascular disease. This invention in the medical
    field grew directly out of basic research supported by DMS to develop
    resonance laser fluorescence and laser photoionization techniques for
    the study of fundamental aspects of the sputtering process. The basic
      work led to the development of techniques for the ultrasensitive
    detection and quantitative measurement of sputtered or laser-ablated
       atoms and molecules. In turn, these methods were applied to the
   diagnosis of edge plasmas in Tokamaks and are today used to investigate
    isotopic compositions of SiC grains in meteorites that hold clues to
                      the origins of the solar system.

       The DOE invention resides in the discovery that high-intensity
       (0.1-1GW/cm2) XeCl excimer laser radiation (308 nm) results in
    multiphoton processes that, by raising biological molecules to highly
    excited ionic and repulsive states, cause bond rupture and removal of
     tissue by a "soft" mechanism, which does not result in charring of
   surrounding tissue. It was the recognition of the fact that the near UV
   radiation of the 308 nm excimer radiation can be transmitted with very
   little loss through a quartz fiberoptic catheter that made possible the
     application of laser surgical procedures to cardiovascular disease.

                       IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF LIFE:

     Conventional lasers require such high energies to remove tissue and
   generate so much heat in the process, that they often harm surrounding
    healthy tissue. This is a particular problem in heart surgery, where
   removing damaged tissue inside a blood vessel with a conventional laser
   could weaken or penetrate the adjacent vessel wall. The 308 nm excimer
   laser beams do not generate heat. Instead, the intense bright light of
     the focused excimer beam turns tissue directly into gas by breaking
      chemical bonds. DOE's development stemmed from basic research on
   specialized techniques that use lasers to examine systems ranging from
    fusion energy plasmas to the composition of meteoritic material. This
     basic research, funded by the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of
   Basic Energy Sciences, led to unexpected benefits in medicine, an area
   one would not have considered as an application at the beginning of the
                            laser investigations.

        It is being used worldwide for the treatment of the following
                                 disorders:
    1. Removal of impacted and infected pacemaker and defibrillator leads.
    2. Reversal of stent restenosis.
    3. Clearing of occluded saphenous vein grafts.
    4. Removal of obstructions giving rise to intermittent claudication.
    5. Removal of atherosclerotic plaques that are too long or too
       calcified to be treated by balloon angioplasty.
    6. Clinical trials of percutaneous myocardial revascularization (PMR).

     The invention has been commercialized by the Spectranetics Corp. of
   Colorado Springs, CO, who manufacture and sell the 308 nm excimer laser
    and associated fiber optic catheters. Sales of the company are on the
     order of $50M per year and are projected to rise dramatically. The
   manufacturing facilities are in the U.S. and therefore benefit the U.S.
    by providing jobs and contributing to the economic well-being of the
                                  country.

    A licensing agreement has been concluded recently between DOE and the
      Baxter Healthcare Corp. covering the claims of the DOE Laboratory
                               excimer patent.

      Uses for the 308 nm excimer in the medical field are continually
        expanding and promise a brilliant future for this technology.

                                COST SAVINGS:

    The DOE Laboratory invention of the 308 nm excimer laser for medical
    applications has important implications for improving the quality of
    life, as well as saving money. For example, hundreds of thousands of
       people continue leading productive lives after implantation of
    pacemakers of defibrillators. However, in a fraction of these people,
    the leads become detached, impacted or infected. Correction of these
    problems in the past has involved painful and expensive major surgery
       to remove the leads. Today, the procedure can be done far more
    inexpensively and non-invasively. A specially designed optical fiber
    catheter is fitted over the electrical lead where it exits the body.
     Laser energy delivered to the periphery of the catheter severs the
   tissue clinging to the lead. Extraction of the leads is accomplished in
              a matter of minutes after the procedure is begun.


                  Submitted by: Argonne National Laboratory
