http://louisville.fbi.gov/contact/fo/louisville/oreach.htm

               FBI LOUISVILLE OUTREACHING IN THE COMMUNITY!!!

            The FBI has many tools it uses to combat the infiltration of
   drugs and violence in our community. One of those tools has been the
   development of the Community Outreach Program (COP). As part of the COP
   and in conjunction with the Jefferson County school system, the
   Louisville Division has introduced the "Junior Special Agent Program."
   A select group of sixth-grade students were chosen to participate from
   Iroquois Middle School located in Louisville, Kentucky. Throughout the
   school year, students were presented with a variety of topics which
   included, the history of the FBI; drug awareness/prevention; and
   enhancing self-reliance.  The lessons were taught by volunteers from
   both the Agent and Professional Support personnel ranks. The students
   were also treated to a tour of the FBI Louisville office and a
   Christmas party.

            On May 12, 1998, the first class of 22 Junior Special Agents
   graduated at a ceremony held at the Louisville Office. Everyone
   involved with the Jr. Special Agent Program from the Louisville Office
   wishes the very best to each of our 22 new Jr. Special Agents in their
   future endeavors.  Additional good news is that the Louisville Office
   has been given the approval to continue this program for the 1998-1999
   school year and is very grateful for the opportunity to serve the
   community in this capacity.

            Many of the employees in the Louisville Office volunteer their
   time and talents to perform various community services. Just a few of
   the organizations that have directly benefited from our employees
   are: The Kentucky Baptist Home, Kentucky Special Olympics, The
   Salvation Army, The Home of the Innocents, and the Boy Scouts of
   America. Just one other fact that may be of interest to teenagers in
   the Louisville area--the Louisville Division is one of only a couple of
   FBI field offices in the country sponsoring an Explorers Scout
   Post. The Explorers are instructed in several different areas of law
   enforcement during their monthly meetings held in the Louisville FBI
   Office.

            In 1985 the FBI established the Honors Internship
   Program.  The program encourages selected college scholars to perform
   summer internships at one of several locations, such as FBI
   Headquarters in Washington, D.C., at selected major field offices, or
   at the FBI Academy located on the United States Marine Corps Base at
   Quantico, Virginia. The Louisville Field Office is normally allotted
   one slot per year. This was an exceptional year for the Louisville
   office when three of our applicants were selected for the program.

            Each year FBI Louisville receives numerous requests to
   participate in community organizations and special events, and does its
   best to meet those requests.





                      Link to FBI Louisville Home page
