http://www.familysupportcenter.maricopa.gov/needtoknow.html

    Family Support Center
    Clerk of the Superior Court in Maricopa County
    Family Ties and Knots


      Articles  Ties & Knots Tying Up a Plan   Dads     Moms     Videos
                           Acknowledgements  Home

                          What Parents Need to Know

   Happily, the majority of children whose parents divorce do not have
   significant issues that require seeking professional help. However,
   more children of divorce do experience a greater number of problems
   than children of intact families. This knowledge can help parents stay
   tuned in -- to recognize when children need assistance.

   The most current research studies indicate that childrens experiences
   from the divorce of their parents depends a great deal on the following
   five factors:

   First, it only makes sense that a child, just like a parent, will
   encounter many new life stressors, including less stability due to
   changes in relationships, economic status, residence, schools, and
   child care.

   Secondly, children of divorce typically experience more difficulty if
   they suffer the loss of a parent. The physical absence of the parent,
   or at least the loss of more frequent contact, can hurt a child deeply.
   Certainly economics change. But more importantly, parents may not
   realize everything that they provide for the child emotionally, or what
   their child especially depends upon, from each parent. Children learn
   very unique things from each of their parents, and they need their
   involvement.

   Thirdly, a childs success in adapting can hinge on the parents ability
   to adjust to the restructuring of the family. If the parents are able
   to maneuver through the typical stages of loss and grieving to reach a
   place of forgiveness and acceptance, the child will typically follow.
   However, if the parent has an unusually hard time meeting these
   challenges, both parent and child may suffer, unless they ask for help.
   When a parent fails to adjust and move on to a satisfactory new life,
   there is greater risk that a child can be alienated in some manner from
   the other parent.

   A fourth issue, persistent high inter-parental conflict is particularly
   devastating to a child. Although conflict is normal in families, when a
   child is exposed to frequent, high hostility or strife between the
   parents, it can be extremely hurtful and long lasting. Parents who
   truly love their children are often completely unaware of the harmful
   effects that their ongoing battles have upon the children.

   The last factor, parental competence, is another key to a childs
   successful growth and development. It is vital for the parent, not the
   child, to be in charge. In an effort to ease the pain of the divorce,
   some parents have a tendency to overcompensate by giving in to the
   child. They become too lenient or lax in setting and enforcing family
   rules and consequences.

   Heightened awareness can help identify resources to help you and your
   child. The important thing is to make use of these resources, if you
   decide they are needed.

   [shim.gif] [fsctop.gif]
