http://casc.noaa.gov/privacy.htm

                   "" "" "" "" "" "" "" "" "" "" "" "" ""
    Link to CASC Home Page Link to Director's Office Link to Acquisitions
    Management Division Link to Facilities and Logistics Division Link to
   Financial Management Division Link to Human Resources Division Link to
    Information Systems Division Link to Commerce BankCard Center Link to
                    National Logistics Support Center ""
                            "" Privacy Notice   ""
                                     ""

               CASC Web Privacy Notice (as of August 1, 1999)

   Thank you for visiting the Central Administrative Support Center
   Website and reviewing our Privacy Policy. Our Privacy for visits to
   www.casc.noaa.gov is clear:

     We will collect no personal information about you when you visit our
     website unless you choose to provide that information to us.

   Here is how we handle information about your visit to our website:

   Information Collected and Stored Automatically

   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically. This information does not
   identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit:
   ""    The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
        private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
      from a university's domain), and IP address (an IP address is a number
         that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you are
               surfing the Web) from which you access our website,
   ""  The type of browser and operating system unset to access our site,
   ""                The date and time you access our site,
   ""                       The pages you visit, and
   ""   If you linked to our website from another website, the address of
                                  that website.

       We use this information to help us make our site more useful to
    visitors -- to learn about the number of visitors to our site and the
       types of technology our visitors use. We do not track or record
               information about individuals and their visits.

                            Links to Other Sites

   Our Website has links to other federal agencies and to private
   organizations. Once you link to another site, it is that site's privacy
   policy that controls what it collects about you.

   Information Collected When You Send Us an E-mail Message

   When inquiries are E-mailed to us, we store the text of your message
   and E-mail address information, so that we can answer the question that
   was sent in, and send the answer back to the E-mail address provided.
   The material you submit may be seen by various people in our
   Department, who may use it to look into the matter you have inquired
   about. If enough questions or comments come in that are the same, the
   question may be added to our Frequently Asked Questions section, or the
   suggestions are used to guide the design of our Web site. If your
   communication is very sensitive, or includes personal information, you
   might want to send it by postal mail.
                       Contact: Dail.R.Hobbs@noaa.gov
                              Created: 8/1/1999
                              Updated: 8/1/1999
        Web Site Owner: U.S. Department of Commerce/NOAA/OFA/Central
                     Administrative Support Center "" ""
                                     ""
                                     ""
                                      ""
    Directors Office / Acquisitions / Facilities & Logistics / Finance /
                               Human Resources
     Systems / BankCard Center / NLSC / CASC Home Page / Printing Info /
                               Privacy Notice
