http://accessible.nindsiis1.ninds.nih.gov/accessible/access_instructions.htm

                                 Accessibility

   The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is
   making every effort to ensure that the information available on its Web
   site is accessible to all. If you use special adaptive equipment to
   access the Internet and encounter problems when using the NINDS Web
   site, please e-mail braininfo@ninds.nih.gov or call (800) 352-9424 or
   write NINDS, P.O. Box 5801, Bethesda, MD 20824 and the information you
   need will be provided to you in an alternate format.

                                  Instructions

   This Web site is available in two versions, a graphical interface that
   uses tables for layout and an accessible version that has been designed
   to work better with adaptive technology, audio and text browsers, older
   browsers and small hand-held devices such as personal digital
   assistants.

   With the exception of this page, each page of the accessible version of
   the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) Web
   site is divided into five basic divisions:
    1. A brief page content title followed by the words National Institute
       of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. This is followed by a link to
       skip over the menus which are near the beginning on every page.
       Skipping the repeated menus takes you directly to the page content.
       Use this skip link to avoid cycling through the menus each time you
       come to a page.
    2. A menu called "Main sections of the NINDS Web site." This menu has
       seven links to the main sections under which this site is
       organized. The link text for the section you have entered has the
       added words "you are in this section" to aid in locating your
       position in the site.
    3. A menu for the section of the site you have entered. The heading
       announcing this menu begins with the name of the section such as
       "Funding section pages and search". The menu begins with a brief
       description of NINDS, has links to pages in the section, and ends
       with a search input form for the entire Web site and a couple of
       links for contacting NINDS and privacy information. When tabbing
       through links, the link text of the page you are on has the added
       words "you are on this page" or "you are on a page subsidiary to
       this page" to aid in locating your position in the site.
    4. Page content area starting with a heading "Content for this page"
       contains the unique, main information in the page.
    5. The last part of the page is the page footer. Contains links to
       these access instructions, the graphical version of the site, and
       to the start of the page. Also contains a phone number for
       contacting NINDS if you continue to have a special problem
       accessing this site.

   Select either of these links to access the NINDS Public Website:
     * Graphical Site
     * Accessible Site

   To learn more about the regulations governing the accessibility of
   Federal electronic information products, visit the Federal IT
   Accessibility Initiative Web site at www.section508.gov.
