http://www.mclean.gov/assessor/pdf/board_of_review_rules.pdf

   McLean County Board of Review Law and Justice Center, Room 705
   Bloomington, IL Phone (309) 888-5132 Fax (309) 888-5208 RULES GOVERNING
   THE APPEAL PROCESS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW OF MCLEAN COUNTY FOR
   ASSESSMENT YEAR 2000 SUGGESTION - It is strongly recommended that the
   taxpayer discuss the assessment with the Township Assessor prior to the
   tiling of a complaint with the Board of Review. Many times the reason
   for the assessment can be made clear, and the need for the tiling of a
   complaint eliminated. If, after talking with the Township Assessor, the
   taxpayer still wishes to pursue a formal complaint, they should
   familiarize themselves with the Rules governing hearings before the
   McLean County Board of Review. However, the 30-day time limit for
   tiling will not be changed to allow for discussing the assessment with
   the Township Assessor. BASIS OF COMPLAINT -The State of Illinois
   property tax law requires that all non-farm property be assessed at
   33-l/3 percent of fair market value and that like property be assessed
   in a like manner (equity). All farmland assessments are based on total
   agriculture use value rather than fair market value as determined by
   the State Farmland Assessment Review Committee. The McLean County Board
   of Review will review complaints of assessed values on farm residences,
   farm homesite and farm buildings. The McLean County Board of Review
   does not have the authority to adjust the certified farmland equalized
   assessed values received annually from the Illinois Department of
   Revenue as legislated by the Farmland Assessment law passed in 1981. A
   formal complaint may be filed when it appears that: I. The assessor's
   market value is higher than actual market value. 2 . The assessment is
   higher than those of similar neighboring properties. 3 . The assessment
   is based on inaccurate information. 4 . The assessed value is at a
   higher percentage of market value for the property than the prevailing
   township or county median level, as shown in an assessment/sales ratio
   study. TIME FOR FILING COMPLAINT-All complaints and claims for
   exemption must be tiled with the Board of Review on or before 30 days
   after publication of said township assessment roll in the local
   newspaper. I. Mailings postmarked by the US Postal Service are
   considered filed on the date postmarked. 2 . Metered mail must also
   bear the official US Postal Service date stamp if it arrives after the
   final tiling date. 3 . All other mailings and hand deliveries are
   considered tiled on the date received in Room 705 of the Law & Justice
   Center (Board of Review office). 4 . Faxed complaints will not be
   accepted. 5 . Board of Review office hours are: Monday through Friday -
   8:OO am until 4:30 p.m.; Saturday, Sunday and County holidays - Closed.
   PROCEDURES FOR FILING A COMPLAINT - 1. All complaints relating to real
   estate assessment must be filed on the form provided by the Board of
   Review. A separate complaint form must be filed for each parcel number.
   All evidence or additional information to be considered must be
   submitted in triplicate (except photographs) with the complaint form. 2
   . If a complaint deals with the land and the building(s) on one parcel
   number as separate issues, they are still to be tiled on one complaint
   form. Even is a taxpayer states that the complaint is only on either
   the land or the building(s), the Board of Review will review the entire
   parcel, not just the objected part. 3 . Complaints filed by two
   separate persons on one property will not be heard separately. 4 . If
   the property is rental property, the taxpayer shall furnish the income
   and expense statements of the prior three years as evidence of value to
   the Board of Review with the complaint form. The most appropriate
   evidence are the pertinent schedules of the taxpayer's federal income
   tax return. 5 . For the filing of a complaint by a non-owner against
   another real property assessment, the form and procedure are the same
   as for any other taxpayer. In these cases, the owner of the property
   will be notified of the tiling of the complaint, will receive a copy of
   the complaint, and will be allowed the opportunity to appear at the
   hearing. The burden of proof, however, will be on the taxpayer to show
   adequate cause for the complaint. 6 . If a taxpayer requests a
   reduction in assessed valuations of $100,000 or mot-e, it is required
   that the Board of Review offtce notify each taxing district affected by
   the complaint. It is, therefore, REQUIRED THAT TAXPAYERS SUPPLY THEIR
   ESTIMATE OF CORRECT VALUE ON LINE 9 (a, b, c) OF THE COMPLAINT FORM.
   SUPPORTING EVIDENCE-All supporting evidence ot- additional information
   to be considered by the Board of Review must be submitted in triplicate
   (except photographs) at the time the complaint is tiled. Any complaint
   received without the required supporting evidence may be returned, and
   the complaint may not be processed by the Board or Review. In the event
   the contesting party is unable to submit written or documentary
   evidence with the complaint form, a letter requesting an extension of
   time must be submitted with the complaint form. Without the written
   request for an extension, no evidence will be accepted after the
   complaint form is tiled. At the time the request is received, the Board
   of Review may grant up to a 15 day extension for good cause. Good cause
   may include, but is not limited to, the inability to submit evidence
   for a cause beyond the control of the contesting party (such as
   completion of a contracted appraisal, or the death or illness of the
   taxpayer), Examples of evidence include, but is not limited to: l
   Purchase Controcfs and Closing Statements. These documents are most
   helpful on a recently purchased property. They must be signed by both
   buyer and seller, and the total sale price must be stated. All
   transactions must be an arms-length sale. l Comparable Sales. If there
   are sales of similar properties in the same neighborhood, evidence of
   these sale prices should be submitted. Similar means, for example,
   square footage is approximately the same; a ranch is compared to a
   ranch, a two-story to a two-story, a bi-level to a bi-level, etc. All
   squat-e footage is determined by outside measurement. l Comparable
   Assessment. If there are similar properties in the same neighborhood
   that have been assessed lower, the evidence should include assessed
   valuations, addresses, and property index numbers. If a comparison of
   similar is used to claim a lack of equal treatment (equity), these
   comparisons should be included in the original complaint as evidence of
   the lack of equal treatment. They should be similar in type, size, age,
   construction, location, and market value as of January 1 of the
   assessment year. l Phofographs. These can be helpful in showing the
   style, condition and any special factors of the property that should be
   brought to the Board's attention. Photographs of other similar
   properties may also be helpful for purposes of comparison. It is not
   necessary to submit photographs in triplicate; one original is
   sufficient. l Appraisal or Legal Brief: A recent appraisal by a
   qualified appraiser can be most helpful.. It must conform to all
   Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) to be
   considered. PROCEDURE OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW I. The Board will assign a
   docket number upon receipt of a properly completed complaint form filed
   in a timely manner. 2 . The Board of Review will review all complaints
   and may elect to render a tentative decision. Such decision will be
   mailed to the taxpayer. If the tentative decision is deemed
   unsatisfactory by the taxpayer, the taxpayer must request a hearing
   within 7 days. If the taxpayer fails to appear for the scheduled
   hearing, the tentative decision will become final. 3 . A hearing may be
   scheduled for each complaint received. 4 . The taxpayer will be
   notified by mail of the date and time of the scheduled hearing. 5 . If
   the taxpayer or their representative cannot appear at the scheduled
   hearing, the Board of Review Clerk must be notified to determine if it
   is possible to reschedule the hearing. The Board must complete all
   hearings in a timely fashion, therefore, the Clerk may refuse your
   request to reschedule. 6 . If the taxpayer fails to appear for the
   scheduled hearing, the Board of Review reserves the right to dismiss
   the complaint. HEARINGS BY THE BOARD OF REVIEW I. Hearings are held in
   Room 705 in the McLean County Law & Justice Center, I04 West Front
   Street, Bloom&ton, IL. 2 . Hearings are scheduled every I5 minutes. 3 .
   Taxpayers may represent themselves or may be represented by an agent
   who has proper written authorization. or by an attorney. 4 . The
   taxpayer or representative will present the objections to the
   assessment. 5 . The Board of Review will direct questions to the
   taxpayer and/or the representative. 6 . The Township Assessor or a
   representative from that office may present evidence concerning the
   property and its assessment. I. Whenever the taxpayer is requesting a
   reduction in assessed valuation of $100,000 or more, the taxing
   districts affected by this request and/or their attorneys will be
   notified and may appear at the hearing with questions. 8 . If a
   personal appearance is waived at the discretion of the Board of Review,
   the taxpayer or representative may schedule a conference telephone call
   - at the taxpayer's expense -at the original scheduled hearing time or
   send a letter supporting the complaint to arrive before the scheduled
   hearing. 9 . The taxpayer is encouraged to be prompt for the scheduled
   hearing. The Board makes every attempt to run on schedule. FINDINGS OF
   THE BOARD OF REVIEW I. When a complaint is filed, the Board of Review
   may lower or raise all or any part of the assessment on the property or
   make no adjustment in the assessment. 2 . The Board of Review will
   render a decision regarding the assessment of the parcel(s) under
   review after all evidence has been presented at the hearing. This
   decision may be determined and announced at the time of the hearing. 3
   . The decision will be mailed to the taxpayer, their agent or attorney
   in a "Final Notice of Action." 4 . All decisions will be mailed after
   all complaints from all townships have been reviewed. APPEAL OF THE
   FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW 1. The taxpayer may appeal the decision
   of the Board of Review by filing a written petition for review with the
   State Property Tax Appeal Board. 3 2 . This petition must be tiled
   within 30 days after the "Final Notice of Action" is mailed to the
   taxpayer, their agent or attorney. 3 . Forms for appeal are available
   from the office of the McLean County Board of Review or directly from
   the State of Illinois Property Tax Appeal Board. 4 . Property Tax
   Appeal Board hearings are normally held at the McLean County Law and
   Justice Center, and are presided over by a hearing officer representing
   the State Property Tax Appeal Board. ISSUANCE OF ASSESSMENT CHANGES BY
   THE BOARD OF REVIEW - Any member of the Board may institute the
   proceedings designed to correct an omission of assessment or cases of
   error in assessment. A notice shall be sent to the person or
   corporation concerned directing them to appear within a maximum of 30
   days and show causes, if any, why the assessment should not be made or
   increased. If the owner, agent or attorney has no objection to the
   tentative Board of Review value, no hearings shall be held.
   CERTIFICATES OF ERROR - Certificates of Error may be tiled against real
   estate by the Board of Review. Certificates will be approved when
   substantial evidence is presented to prove a factual error has
   occurred. Errors in judgment are not applicable. APPLICATIONS FOR
   PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS I. Applications for new non-homestead
   exemptions on any real property must be filed with the Board of Review
   by December 21 of the assessment year. These shall be tiled in
   triplicate on the form provided by the Board of Review office. An
   additional parsonage form will be supplied in appropriate cases. 2 .
   Applications for general Homestead, Homestead Improvement and Senior
   Citizens Homestead (over age 65) exemptions must be accepted by the
   Board of Review by December 21 of the assessment year. 3 . Applications
   for the Senior Citizen's Assessment Homestead Freeze Exemption will be
   accepted until July 31,200O. 4 . In cases where the non-homestead
   exemption requested would remove a value of $100,000 or more, it is the
   responsibility of the owner, agent or attorney to notify the taxing
   units in which the property is situated. An application of this nature
   will not be processed or set for hearing until certification has been
   received and made a part of the file. 5 . All non-homestead exemption
   decisions are reviewed and finalized by the State of Illinois
   Department of Revenue. The Board of Review will make decisions only on
   homestead exemptions. REGULAR MEETINGS -The Board of Review shall hold
   regular meetings on the second Wednesday of each month from I:00 p.m.
   to 3:00 p.m. in Room 705 of the Law and Justice Center. Any person
   wanting to meet with the Board shall submit in writing a request for a
   hearing at least one week prior to the schedule meeting. A brief
   outline of the concern must accompany the request. EQUALIZATION-The
   Board of Review shall act as an equalizing authority by applying
   multipliers which lower or raise assessments on non-farm properties
   within each township to attain uniformity in assessments. ***** THESE
   RULES AS SET FORTH MAY BE AMENDED AT ANY TIME WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE AT
   THE DISCRETION OF THE MCLEAN COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW. 4
