http://ast.faa.gov/pdf/ASTNarra2.pdf

   CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS for Commercial Space Transportation in the
   National Airspace System NARRATIVE October 15 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001
   Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) Commercial Space
   Transportation CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS in the National Airspace System
   Foreword This is a concept document. It provides a conceptual overview
   of commercial space transportation (CST) operations in the National
   Airspace System (NAS) in 2005 and beyond. This document is intended to
   support evolution of a fully integrated, modernized NAS inclusive of
   commercial space transportation. Further, this overview concept is a
   living document and will be coordinated in a collaborative manner with
   industry and government stakeholders to ensure the viability of the
   concepts represented. _________________________________ Patricia G.
   Smith Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation
   Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS i Version 2.0 May 11, 2001
   Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) Intentionally Left Blank
   Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS ii Version 2.0 May 11, 2001
   Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) Table Of Contents Foreword i
   Acronyms iv Nomenclature Page References v Document References vi 1.0
   INTRODUCTION 1 1.1 Background 1 1.2 Concept Scope and Intended Use 1
   1.3 Organization 2 2.0 TECHNICAL & REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT 3 2.1 Space
   Transportation Vehicles 3 2.2 Spaceports 4 2.3 Airspace 4 2.4
   Automation 4 2.4.1 Information Distribution 4 2.4.2 Decision Support
   Systems 5 2.4.3 System Performance Analysis Tools 6 2.4.4
   Infrastructure Management Tools 6 2.5 Collaborative Decision Making
   (CDM) 8 2.6 Regulation of Commercial Space Transportation 8 2.7
   Security 9 3.0 OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT 10 3.1 Mission Planning 11 3.1.1
   Mission Profile Development 11 3.1.2 Space Vehicle and Air Traffic
   Integration 12 3.1.3 Finalization of the TM Initiative and Mission
   Profile 14 3.2 Launch/Takeoff 14 3.3 Ascent Through the NAS 16 3.3.1
   Positive ATC From The Surface To A High-Altitude STC 16 3.3.2 Ascent
   Through An STC From The Surface 16 3.3.3 Space Mission Abort 17 3.4
   Reentry 17 3.5 Descent Through the NAS & Landing 18 3.5.1 Positive ATC
   From A High-Altitude STC 18 3.5.2 STC From The Upper Limit Of The NAS
   To The Surface 18 3.6 Hypersonic Point-to-Point 19 Concept of
   Operations for CST in the NAS iii Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) Acronyms AAF FAA/Airway
   Facilities Service AAT FAA/Air Traffic Service ADIZ Air Defense
   Identification Zone AFS FAA/Flight Standards Service AIR FAA/Aircraft
   Certification Service AOC Airline Operations Center ARS FAA/Air Traffic
   Requirements Service ASD FAA/Office for System Architecture and
   Investment Analysis AST FAA/Commercial Space Transportation ATA FAA/Air
   Traffic Airspace Management Program ATC Air Traffic Control ATCSCC Air
   Traffic Control System Command Center ATO FAA/Air Traffic Operations
   Program ATS FAA/Air Traffic Services CDM Collaborative Decision Making
   CDTI Cockpit Display of Traffic Information CNS
   Communications/Navigation/Surveillance DoD Department of Defense DSS
   Decision Support System EELV Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle ELV
   Expendable Launch Vehicle FAA Federal Aviation Administration FAS FAA
   Flight Advisory Services GEO Geostationary Earth Orbit GPS Global
   Positioning System ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization IFR
   Instrument Flight Rules IIP Instantaneous Impact Point ISFO
   International Space Flight Organization LEO Low Earth Orbit MEO Medium
   Earth Orbit NAS National Airspace System NAS-WIS NAS-Wide Information
   System RLV Reusable Launch Vehicle SpOC Space Operations Coordinator
   SATMS Space and Air Traffic Management System STC Space Transition
   Corridor SUA Special Use Airspace TM Traffic Management VFR Visual
   Flight Rules Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS iv Version 2.0
   May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) Nomenclature
   Page References Air Traffic Control 3 Airspace 4 Ascent Through an STC
   from the Surface 13 Ascent Through the NAS 13 Ballistic Return to Base
   3 CDM Functions 7 CDM Tools 7 Conflict Prediction & Resolution 6
   Decision Support Systems 5 Descent Through an STC from the Upper Limit
   of the NAS to the Surface 15 Descent Through the NAS & Landing 15
   Dynamic Airspace Configuration 4 Enhanced CNS Capabilities 5 Enhanced
   Weather Information 5 Flexible Spaceway 4 Horizontal Takeoff 3
   Hypersonic Point-To-Point 16 Infrastructure Management Tools 6
   International Space Flight Organization (ISFO) 7 Launch & Reentry
   Concepts 3 Launch Safety Operations 7 Launch/Takeoff 12 Mission
   Planning Tools 5 Mission Planning 10 NAS Upper Limit 4 NAS-Wide
   Information System (NAS-WIS) 4 Positive ATC from a High Altitude STC to
   the Surface 15 Positive ATC From the Surface to a High Altitude STC 13
   Powered Flight to Base 3 Reentry 14 Regulation of Commercial Space
   Transportation 7 Security 8 Space Operations Coordinator (SpOC) 7 Space
   Transition Corridor (STC) 4 Spaceports 4 System Performance Analysis
   Tools 6 Traffic Management 11 Trajectory Modeling/Simulation Tools 5
   Trajectory Predictability 3 Unpowered Flight to Base 3 Vehicle Equipage
   3 Vehicle Operator 7 Vehicle Performance 3 Vehicle Pilotage 3 Vehicle
   Responsiveness to ATC Clearances 3 Concept of Operations for CST in the
   NAS v Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office
   of the Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation
   (AST) Vertical Launch 3 Workload/Traffic-Load Management Capabilities 5
   Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS vi Version 2.0 May 11, 2001
   Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) Document References Air
   Traffic Control Handbook 7110.65L. Federal Aviation Administration. Air
   Traffic Services Plan 1997  2002 (Draft). Federal Aviation
   Administration. An Evolutionary Operational Concept for Users of the
   National Airspace System. Draft v3.0. RTCA Select Committee on Free
   Flight Implementation. ATS Concept of Operations for the National
   Airspace System in 2005-Narrative. Federal Aviation Administration,
   September 30, 1997. Commercial Aerospace Transport-Aerospace Traffic
   Control. Draft White Paper. Vela Technology Development, Inc. July 21,
   1997. Impact Analysis of Commercial Space Launches: Potential User
   Costs to Civil Aviation. MITRE Center for Advanced Aviation Systems
   Development (CAASD), September 1997. Integration of Reusable Launch
   Vehicles (RLVs) into the Air Traffic Management System. Virginia
   Polytechnic Institute and State University, April 13, 1998. Integration
   Of Reusable Launch Vehicles Into Air Traffic Management-Phase I Final
   Report. NEXTOR Research Report (RR-97-7), Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology & Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University,
   November 30, 1997. Integration of Reusable Launch Vehicles Into Air
   Traffic Management-Phase II Progress Report. Virginia Polytechnic
   Institute and State University. Integration of RLVs into Air Traffic
   Management-Phase II Mid-Term Briefing. Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology, April 13, 1998. The Views of a Space Futurist. Presented at
   the 1st FAA Commercial Space Transportation Forecast Conference:
   `Commercial Space Transportation in the 21st Century: Technology and
   Environment, 2001  2025'. February 1998. Concept of Operations for CST
   in the NAS vii Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration
   Office of the Associate Administrator for Commercial Space
   Transportation (AST) 1.0 INTRODUCTION The demand for access to the
   nation's airspace is projected to rise sharply in the 21st century,
   due, in part, to growth of the commercial space transportation
   industry. This growth, coupled with significant increases in
   conventional air travel that are forecasted for the coming years,
   dictates re-examination of the current technology and methodology used
   for managing the National Airspace System (NAS). From a NAS service
   provider perspective, space and aviation operations must be seamlessly
   integrated in order to continue to provide efficient service to all NAS
   users. With this in mind, technological advances in areas such as
   communications, navigation, surveillance (CNS), and decision support
   must be leveraged to evolve a modernized NAS. Therefore, this Concept
   of Operations for Commercial Space Transportation in the NAS has been
   developed by the FAA Associate Administrator for Commercial Space
   Transportation (AST) in anticipation of the evolution of a NAS
   environment in the 21st century that fully integrates commercial space
   operations. It is intended to support achievement of the nation's goals
   in space, as well as the FAA's strategic goals for maximizing system
   efficiency. This document underscores the importance of providing safe,
   efficient, and equitable access to all NAS users, and provides a
   resource to establish a framework for collaboration among stakeholders
   in developing a cost-effective strategy to meet projected demand
   increases for NAS services. 1.1 Background The Department of
   Transportation issued the first commercial launch operator's license in
   1987, and the first U.S. commercial launch occurred in 1989. Since
   then, the total number of U.S. commercial launches has steadily
   increased, and in 1997 the number of commercial launch operations for
   the first time exceeded the number of launch operations conducted by
   the military. In the past, industry forecasters predicted that as many
   as 1200 launches would occur worldwide over a ten year period from
   2000-2010, with a majority of the launches being conducted in the
   United States by U.S. launch vehicle operators. However, recent
   forecasts have been less robust, yet the expectation of commercial
   space transportation expansion and growth remains strong. The demand
   for space-based technologies (communications, navigation, imagery,
   etc.) will lead to the emergence of new Non-Geosynchronous (NGSO)
   commercial launch markets, and create opportunities for growth in
   Geosynchronous (GEO) commercial launch markets. The U.S. commercial
   space transportation industry will flourish as a consequence of these
   new markets. Competition to provide NGSO and GEO launch services will
   serve as a catalyst for innovative developments in launch and reentry
   vehicle technology and sites. This trend is currently evidenced by the
   emergence of a wide variety of new vehicle concepts that include
   evolved expendable launch vehicles (EELVs) and reusable launch vehicles
   (RLVs), and new launch and recovery facilities at both inland, and
   sea-based locations. Changes in the magnitude and complexity of space
   operations will place new demands on the NAS as vehicles in route to
   and from earth orbit and beyond transition through airspace that is
   currently the near exclusive domain of aviation traffic. Historically,
   commercial launch operations have occurred at coastal federal ranges
   utilizing only ELVs. As a result, these space operations have had
   minimal impact on NAS operations due to their infrequent occurrence and
   offshore trajectories. However, the expected increase in frequency of
   commercial launches and re- entries, from a broad range of locations,
   in the U.S. will contribute substantially to competition for airspace
   amongst NAS users. Therefore, the FAA must now consider a `Space and
   Air Traffic Management System' (SATMS) that equitably supports both the
   evolving commercial space transportation industry and the mature and
   continuously growing aviation industry in a systematic, integrated
   manner. Thus, the SATMS represents an evolutionary expansion of the
   U.S. air traffic management system to encompass the people,
   infrastructure, policies, procedures, rules, and regulations necessary
   to fully integrate space and aviation operations under a single
   infrastructure. 1.2 Concept Scope and Intended Use The Concept of
   Operations for Commercial Space Transportation in the NAS provides a
   high-level description of future commercial space transportation
   operations, with an emphasis on the management of space transportation
   vehicles as they transition through the NAS. This operational concept
   takes into account fundamental changes in the delivery of NAS services
   based on technological capabilities (e.g., decision-support tools,
   advanced CNS systems) and operational initiatives (e.g., Free Flight,
   National Airspace Redesign). These capabilities and services are
   currently being developed and will be phased into service. Phased
   evolution of the NAS will result in distinct states of the NAS in the
   near (current through 2005), mid (2005  2010), and far (2010  2015)
   timeframes. It is expected that many of the commercial space
   transportation concepts presented in this document will significantly
   Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 1 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001
   Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) impact NAS operations in the
   late mid to far timeframe and beyond. Therefore, the ideas presented in
   subsequent sections of this document are intended primarily to support
   investment in new technologies and capabilities for mid and far NAS
   transitional phases. Subsequent sections (2.0 and 3.0) of this document
   are written entirely in the present tense for clarity. This Operational
   Concept has evolved from discussions with various government and
   industry stakeholders, and research and analyses performed and
   sponsored by the FAA. It will be used SPACE CONOPS NAS CONOPS to
   support development of lower-level concepts (i.e., Level II CONOPS) for
   NAS technical areas such as communication, Task Modules navigation,
   surveillance, and automation and is complementary to Surface Arrival /
   En Route Oceanic the broader focused National Airspace System Concept
   of Departure Operations1. The relationship among operational concepts
   is Traffic Flight Infrastructure Mgmt. Service Management illustrated
   in Figure 1. To ensure its usefulness, this document will be subject to
   ongoing evaluation, validation, and refinement. Level II CONOPS
   Throughout this process, the FAA and the NAS user community Facilities
   will use the maturing document as a resource to help plan, Comm Nav
   Surveillance ATM / TFM Automation Management develop, and coordinate
   activities related to user and service provider operations in the NAS.
   Relationship Among Operational Concepts Figure 1. 1.3 Organization The
   Concept of Operations for Commercial Space Transportation in the NAS is
   organized as follows: * Section 1.0, Introduction - Describes the
   purpose, background, scope, and intended use of this document, and
   defines the need for a concept of operations to accommodate both air
   traffic and space traffic. * Section 2.0, Technical & Regulatory
   Environment - Describes space transportation vehicles, spaceports,
   airspace, technologies and automation support, collaborative decision
   making (CDM) functions, and licensing and certification needs that will
   comprise the future operational environment. * Section 3.0, Operational
   Environment - Describes the manner in which commercial space
   transportation operations are accommodated in the NAS, covering
   operational phases such as mission planning, launch, transition to
   space, and reentry. 1 The RTCA Free Flight Steering Committee approved
   the NAS Concept of Operations on December 13, 2000. The NAS ConOps
   combined elements of the Commercial Space Transportation Concept of
   Operations in the NAS, the Joint/Government Industry Concept, and the
   Air Traffic Services (ATS) Concept of Operations for the NAS in 2005.
   The NAS Concept of Operations supercedes the Government/Industry
   Operational Concept for the Evolution of Free Flight. Concept of
   Operations for CST in the NAS 2 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) 2.0 TECHNICAL & REGULATORY
   ENVIRONMENT Transition is underway to a full Free Flight environment.
   2005 sees the anticipated completion of the National Airspace Redesign,
   replacement of the Host computer system, transition to satellite
   navigation, and introduction of new decision support systems (DSSs).
   2005 also marks the completion of the first phase of transition to the
   technologies and airspace structures required for Free Flight. With
   safety, workload, and efficiency as the driving forces, human factors
   analyses have determined the appropriate allocation of tasks between
   service providers, users, and automation. As a result, NAS throughput
   has increased significantly without an increase in the controller
   workforce. Contention for NAS resources is mitigated through improved
   technologies to predict and manage aviation and space traffic. DSSs and
   enhanced displays expedite information exchange amongst NAS systems,
   service providers, and users. This shared situation awareness
   facilitates a Collaborative Decision-Making (CDM) approach that ensures
   user participation in key decisions that impact delivery of services.
   Commercial space launches and reentries are increasingly commonplace
   and operationally complex. U.S. space transportation vehicle fleet
   consists of a variety of vehicles capable of delivering a wide range of
   payloads to orbit, and new launch and recovery facilities are in
   operation throughout the country. The balance of this section discusses
   the elements that require NAS systems integration consideration (e.g.,
   vehicles, spaceports), as well as those elements that are impacted by
   commercial space transportation operations into the NAS (i.e.,
   airspace, CDM, etc.). These elements are 1) space transportation
   vehicles, 2) spaceports, 3) airspace, 4) automation, 5) CDM functions,
   6) regulations, and 7) security. 2.1 Space Transportation Vehicles A
   variety of space transportation vehicles exist, ranging from
   traditional rocket-types to those with conventional aircraft
   capabilities. ELVs and EELVs carry large and/or multiple payloads,
   while RLVs offer mission reliability and cost savings, and are
   generally used for smaller payloads. RLVs are increasingly common,
   benefiting from operational and economic advantages such as reduced
   cost, improved reliability, and decreased mission risk (i.e., ability
   to return to base if the mission is aborted). RLVs with varying
   operational concepts are available to meet the NGSO launch market
   demand. Some RLVs take off and re-enter under power on conventional
   runways. Others, for example, are ferried to high altitudes (e.g., 50K
   feet), launched from the air, and re-enter under power. A major
   operational factor that differentiates the various ELV, EELV, and RLV
   concepts is the ability of the vehicle to respond to air traffic
   control (ATC) clearances.2 Vehicle characteristics that determine this
   ability include the method of launch/takeoff, method of reentry, mode
   of vehicle pilotage, vehicle communication, navigation, and
   surveillance (CNS) equipage, and trajectory predictability. Generally:
   * Space transportation vehicles launch/take-off vertically (i.e., from
   a launch pad) or horizontally (i.e., from a runway). Vehicles that
   launch/take off vertically include ELVs, EELVs, and RLVs that operate
   from a launch pad in a manner similar to the Space Shuttle. Vehicles
   that launch/take-off horizontally include RLVs that depart from a
   runway and fly conventionally in a manner similar to an airplane
   through airspace, or those that are assisted by a conventional airplane
   to reach an airborne point of separation from the assisting aircraft. *
   The basic reentry techniques utilized by the various RLVs are powered
   flight to a landing site, gliding flight to a landing site, and
   ballistic flight to a landing site. * Several types of pilotage
   techniques are employed, including on-board crew operations, remotely
   piloted operations controlled from the ground, and autonomous (i.e.,
   preprogrammed) operations. * The avionics equipage used by the vehicle
   (e.g., CNS systems) impact the vehicle's ability to respond to ATC, and
   the precision with which the vehicle can be monitored and tracked. *
   Trajectory predictability (as determined by vehicle performance,
   pilotage, and equipage) determines the accuracy of NAS trajectory
   predictions for traffic planning and conflict detection processes. 2
   Vehicles that perform comparably to conventional aircraft may be
   controlled via positive ATC techniques. Vehicles with ballistic
   profiles (e.g., rocket-type vehicles) require reserved airspace to
   provide separation assurance. Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS
   3 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of
   the Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST)
   2.2 Spaceports Commercial spaceports are in operation at various
   coastal, inland, and sea-based locations. There are also joint-use
   facilities that accommodate both aviation and space transportation
   operations. Spaceports are similar to airports in that they provide
   services that include, but are not limited to, communications (voice,
   data link, etc.), telemetry, specialized weather forecasting and
   advisories. Spaceports also provide services found at federal ranges
   such as payload/vehicle processing. Spaceports accommodate both launch
   and reentry operations for various types of space transportation
   vehicle systems. Spaceports vary with respect to the types of
   commercial space operations that can be supported. The types of vehicle
   operations that can be accommodated at a given spaceport are determined
   by such factors as: * Destination/mission objective (e.g., launching
   into LEO, MEO or GEO) and the preferred trajectory. * Ability of the
   spaceport to accommodate the vehicle operational, performance, and
   support requirements. * Spaceport scheduling assurance and range
   turn-around time (e.g., time to process successive operations). *
   Environmental constraints (e.g., noise abatement requirements, hazard
   concerns). * Economics (e.g., launch costs). * Weather trends (i.e.,
   the probability that weather patterns/trends will present a risk to the
   launch window). * Traffic flow patterns (i.e., the constraints that
   must be dealt with due to contention for NAS resources). 2.3 Airspace
   New traffic management tools and procedures allow frequent evaluation
   of airspace structures and traffic flows, with adjustments made
   accordingly. Thus sector configurations are unconstrained by current
   boundaries, particularly at high altitudes. The resulting dynamic
   reconfiguration of airspace within and between facilities increases
   operational flexibility, equitably distributes workload among sectors
   and facilities, and accommodates contingencies. In addition to these
   airspace changes, which are primarily intended to meet demand from
   aviation traffic, commercial space transportation drives the need for
   further changes in airspace philosophy and structure. First, an upper
   limit of the NAS is specified in order to demarcate the FAA's
   operational responsibilities. The FAA provides traffic flow management
   and separation assurance to vehicles as they transition through the NAS
   to and from this upper limit of the airspace.3 Second, space vehicle
   operations within the NAS are managed using: * Space Transition
   Corridors (STCs) provide dynamically reserved and released airspace
   that allows space vehicles to transition through the NAS. STCs are
   selected and determined based on performance characteristics of the
   vehicle and overall safety considerations. STCs may be tailored as
   mission needs or ATC needs dictate, and provide more flexibility than
   today's special-use airspace (SUA). * Flexible Spaceways similar to
   today's airways and jet routes serve traffic transitioning to and from
   space. These are dynamically designated to meet specific mission
   objectives, such as transitioning to airborne launch points, aerial
   refueling, etc. Depending on the mission and vehicle profile, spaceways
   may be used in conjunction with an STC, to segregate different types of
   missions, to concurrently accommodate different mission phases (e.g.,
   launches vs. re-entries), and to ensure safety in case of
   contingencies. 2.4 Automation NAS modernization is based on an
   incremental implementation of new technologies that assist in the
   management and control of aviation and space operations by helping to
   absorb the increased demand for NAS resources, minimizing the impact of
   space operations on the ATC system, and enhancing productivity. This
   approach maintains safety as the first priority, while also increasing
   capacity, flexibility, and productivity in balance with airspace,
   airport/spaceport, and controller workload considerations. The primary
   enhancements that provide improved NAS services for Commercial Space
   are improved information distribution, decision support systems, system
   performance analysis tools, and infrastructure management tools. 2.4.1
   Information Distribution `Shared situation awareness' among users and
   service providers offers an efficient alternative to the parochial
   problem-solving process. The full range of relevant operational
   information is provided to traffic managers, controllers, and users.
   For example, STC schedules and status information are output to 3 For
   operations beyond the NAS upper limit, acquisition of information
   pertaining to space objects that conflict with the space transportation
   vehicle is the responsibility of the space transportation vehicle
   operator. Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 4 Version 2.0 May
   11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) controllers,
   supervisors, TM, and airline operations centers (AOCs), and may be
   accessed via the NAS Wide Information System (NAS-WIS). Spaceway data
   is available via the NAS-WIS and can be displayed at controller and
   traffic manager positions. Prevailing sector combinations and
   boundaries are depicted on the displays at all relevant operational
   positions. Planned combinations and configurations are directly
   available on supervisor, TM displays, and via the NAS-WIS to users. The
   major information sources are: * Enhanced CNS Systems. Digital
   communications (e.g., datalink) provide a non-verbal means of
   disseminating information between users and service providers. The
   combination of Global Positioning System (GPS) and aircraft-broadcast
   position reports increases navigational and surveillance accuracy. This
   more precise tracking also enables the use of dynamic STCs, which are
   reserved and released as vehicles transition through the NAS to/from
   space. Finally, these systems facilitate increased use of pilot
   self-separation, and improved conflict prediction and resolution. *
   Enhanced Weather Information. There is increasingly accurate weather
   data available to service providers and users, including hazardous
   weather alerts for wind sheer, microbursts, gust fronts, and areas of
   precipitation, icing, and low visibility. Enhanced steps for avoiding
   convective weather are made as weather prediction capabilities are
   improved and integrated into the decision support tools. Aircraft and
   spacecraft are both the consumers and sources of weather data. Improved
   weather `forecasting' and `nowcasting' increases scheduling precision
   (for air traffic operations, space launches, and reentry operations)
   and overall air traffic and space traffic management. Detailed weather
   information is available via the NAS-WIS, and is selectively presented
   on sector displays and flight deck displays. * NAS Wide Information
   System. The NAS-WIS drives the exchange of information among NAS users
   and service providers. It expedites dissemination of information such
   as: 1) static data, including maps, charts, airport & spaceport guides,
   and Notices to Airmen, 2) dynamic data such as STC schedules and
   status, launch/reentry schedules and coordinates, current and forecast
   weather, radar summaries, traffic loading, hazardous condition
   warnings/advisories, airport and airspace capacity constraints, and
   infrastructure status, 3) aircraft information, including the flight
   information posting (FIP), estimated departure and arrival times, first
   movement of the aircraft, wheels-up, position data, flight
   cancellations, etc., and 4) space flight information, including the
   mission profile, launch/reentry windows and coordinates, STC
   information, payload, and trajectory. 2.4.2 Decision Support Systems
   CNS advances present an abundance of real-time data that must be
   integrated to maintain situation awareness. Thus task performance is no
   longer data-limited, but rather it is constrained by the operator's
   ability to assimilate data to execute decisions. As a result, DSSs are
   needed to assist service providers in assimilating, interpreting, and
   exchanging information. This assistance reduces the burden of routine
   tasks, allowing service providers to apply more cognitive resources to
   the primary task of evaluating traffic situations and planning
   appropriate responses. * Mission Planning Decision Support. The mission
   planning process is facilitated by a suite of capabilities that enhance
   CDM and expedite pre-flight communication, coordination, and analysis.
   These DSSs include an archive of NAS performance information,
   trajectory modeling/simulation tools, traffic and workload prediction
   capabilities, and CDM tools. The archive of NAS performance information
   provides inputs for planning aids (e.g., graphical depictions of
   airspace, trajectories, reserved airspace, traffic flows, planning
   charts/diagrams, etc.) and data visualization tools that graphically
   show the anticipated impact of space launch operations for various
   traffic profiles. To complement the database described above,
   trajectory modeling/simulation tools enable traffic managers and
   mission planners to anticipate conflicts between space traffic and air
   traffic, including conflicts with active STCs or spaceways. This
   capability to `trial plan' launch and reentry trajectories against
   projected traffic provides an added level of fidelity in mission
   planning. Thus airspace contention can be anticipated prior to filing a
   mission profile. These simulations can be performed in fast-time to
   allow mission planners to explore alternative profiles. Outputs can be
   used in CDM Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 5 Version 2.0 May
   11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) between traffic
   management and mission planners to identify and review solutions given
   specific user needs and priorities. With space mission trajectories
   accurately determined, traffic and workload prediction capabilities
   generate traffic demand/capacity, dynamic density, user-preferred
   trajectory data, and workload information. This information is used by
   traffic managers to ensure that the demand does not exceed airspace,
   airport, spaceport, or controller resources. Automation also provides
   traffic managers and controllers with strategic advisories (e.g., task
   prompts, event prompts) to facilitate proactive air/space traffic
   management and control. The tools and capabilities discussed above are
   integrated within a collaborative decision making tool referred to in
   the ATS Concept as the TM Initiative Planner. This tool synthesizes the
   overall environmental and traffic data set and provides relevant
   information on a given mission. The mission- specific Planner is
   simultaneously available at relevant user and TM (site and national)
   positions, per predefined roles and responsibilities. By requesting the
   Planner on their displays, traffic managers and users may join in the
   same planning session, in order to determine when, where, and how to
   accommodate planned mission operations and contingencies. * Mission
   Operations Decision Support. Once the space mission is in flight within
   the NAS, the system provides task prompts and event prompts to assist
   controllers and traffic managers in maintaining situation awareness. In
   addition, conflict prediction and resolution capabilities are provided
   to controllers, aircraft pilots, and space vehicle operators via their
   respective ground-based and on-board systems. Task prompts indicate to
   the controller the need for control actions such as handoffs,
   communications transfers, pointouts, etc. Event prompts provide
   controllers and traffic managers with an indication of general system
   events such as changes in infrastructure status, and of operational
   events such as changes in the status of STCs. Notifications of these
   events are also available to users via the NAS-WIS. Ground-based
   conflict prediction & resolution capabilities assist controllers to
   predict and resolve conflicts between space vehicles, aircraft,
   airspace, and weather. For space vehicles provided with an STC,
   conflict prediction is based on the active airspace rather than the
   vehicle. Controllers may also perform trial planning to preview the
   potential effect of prospective control actions prior to
   implementation. Flight deck systems such as collision and avoidance
   systems, cockpit display of traffic information (CDTI), etc., assist
   aircraft pilots and space vehicle operators to monitor and maintain
   separation between aircraft and space vehicles. In conjunction with
   information available via NAS-WIS/Datalink, these on-board systems also
   provide the capability for aircraft pilots and space vehicle operators
   to monitor and maintain separation from airspace and weather. 2.4.3
   System Performance Analysis Tools There are improved methods and tools
   to measure NAS performance and to identify user requirements.
   Performance tracking and measurement tools include a space operations
   database and archive that allows post-hoc analyses to be used in
   subsequent mission planning exercises. System performance analysis
   tools are geared toward `mining' a vast array of data, integrating and
   assimilating information, and presenting this information in
   meaningful, readily accessible forms. Analytic capabilities include
   summary statistics for delays, conformance to optimal
   routes/trajectories, traffic loading and density information, etc.
   Outputs may be customized (e.g., based on airspace, time,
   spacecraft/aircraft type, airline, mission, etc.) to examine specific
   issues and consider alternative scenarios. These performance
   measurement and data visualization capabilities allow traffic managers
   and flight/mission planners to refine methods and strategies based on
   objective performance analyses. 2.4.4 Infrastructure Management Tools
   Since it is recognized that system components will fail, the NAS is a
   fault-tolerant system that maintains a balance between reliability,
   redundancy and procedural backups. This is achieved through safety and
   risk analyses that identify areas requiring higher reliability and
   backup. Thus the design provides a system that is not only available,
   but one that also requires minimal time to restore failed
   functionality. To facilitate infrastructure management, there are
   improved methods for collecting and processing system data. These
   Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 6 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001
   Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) data are available as an
   integral part of the NAS-WIS, and are used to prioritize and schedule
   NAS infrastructure activities. Users and service providers collaborate
   in this prioritization and scheduling, utilizing DSSs that provide
   information regarding the coverage and status of infrastructure
   components. Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 7 Version 2.0 May
   11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) 2.5
   Collaborative Decision Making (CDM) In concert with Collaborative Air
   Traffic Management initiatives (e.g., initiatives pioneered by RTCA
   Special Committee 191), the AST CDM model expands on the traditional
   CDM paradigm, and includes both the aviation commercial space users.
   New and enhanced functions in the areas of TM and ATC are essential in
   successfully executing a CDM process inclusive of commercial space
   operations. In this process, TM hosts the CDM interactions with users
   that are necessary to provide equitable service and safe operations for
   all NAS stakeholders, while ATC provides tactical separation assurance
   to space traffic as it transitions through the NAS. Figure 2 below
   depicts the CDM functions involved in mission planning, and the
   integration of the mission into the NAS. This CDM process extends from
   mission planning through launch/takeoff, in a process that is both
   strategic and tactical. This section describes the major
   responsibilities involved in CDM, while the detailed interactions for
   planning and implementing space operations are discussed in Section
   3.0. * The Space Operations Coordinator (SpOC) is a traffic manager at
   one of the existing operational positions within the ATCSCC whose
   duties include collaboration with commercial space operators to
   integrate space missions into NAS traffic flows. Local and national TM
   organizes major air traffic flows in order to prevent demand capacity
   imbalances on NAS resources, and they coordinate with the SpOC to
   integrate space transportation operations and air traffic. * The
   International Space Flight Vehicle Operator Organization (ISFO) is an
   Vehicle Pilotage internationally-sanctioned organization that is the
   focal point for collaboration and information TM ATC Aircraft exchange
   for orbital or hypersonic OPERATIONS point-to-point flights requiring
   international planning and SpOC Spaceport coordination. (at ATCSCC) *
   The Vehicle Operator (VO) is the launch/reentry vehicle owner's FAS
   AOCs ISFO Mission Planner operational representative. As a PLANNING
   primary CDM participant, the VO Collaborative Decision Making (CDM)
   Model provides the mission planning Figure 2. function.4 In this
   process, the VO works with TM and the spaceport to define and file a
   mission profile that accommodates the preferred launch/reentry windows
   and trajectories, based on projected demand for NAS services, TM
   options, and the mission's inherent flexibility. * The Spaceport
   Operator (SO) is responsible for compliance with regulatory
   requirements for spaceport services rendered, including communications,
   telemetry, specialized weather forecasting and advisories,
   payload/vehicle processing, security, etc. As a primary CDM
   participant, the SO coordinates with the mission planner and TM to
   validate the feasibility of the planned operations. * Range Safety is
   provided by personnel who monitor all factors related to the go/no-go
   decision, execute the functions necessary to assure the safety of
   people and property, and assure safety in the event of an abort. 2.6
   Regulation of Commercial Space Transportation Segments of the
   commercial space transportation industry are supported and regulated by
   a structure similar to that in place for the aviation industry.
   Appropriate approvals are granted for all flight tests, and operations
   that involve on board human operators or passengers, and/or flights
   over populated areas. Accepted levels of vehicle safety and public risk
   are identified for commercial space vehicles. Appropriate standards,
   based on these safety and risk levels, are used to evaluate safety.
   Space operations are performed from commercial spaceports operated by
   civilian personnel. Commercial space launch site infrastructure,
   including CNS systems, is safety-approved in a manner similar to
   approval of ATC communications and navigation facilities. Commercial
   spaceport personnel such as launch safety specialists, and commercial
   space transportation vehicle personnel such as mission planners,
   mechanics, and vehicle operators (including on-board vehicle pilots),
   receive FAA approved training, authorization, 4 The VO also fulfills
   the vehicle pilotage function (reference paragraph 2.1). Concept of
   Operations for CST in the NAS 8 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) and medical qualification, in a
   manner similar to that received by aircraft pilots, dispatchers, and
   maintenance personnel. 2.7 Security Security measures are in place at
   spaceports to prevent and/or respond to security risks such as bomb
   threats, hijacks, terrorist actions, and other criminal acts.
   Procedures are in place to carry out security measures for space
   operations that involve carraige of passengers or cargo. These
   procedures are similar, by comparison, to those carried out for
   commercial aviation operations. For airports that accommodate
   commercial space transportation operations, security procedures are
   developed, as required, to address unique or specific security risks
   associated with launch/reentry operations. These procedures supplement
   those already established for aviation operations that occur at these
   facilities. Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 9 Version 2.0 May
   11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) 3.0 OPERATIONAL
   ENVIRONMENT Mission planning and mission operations are two major space
   transportation activities that impact NAS operational efficiency.
   Variables or factors that affect the execution of these activities are
   1) vehicle performance, 2) mission profile, 3) traffic volume and
   controller workload, 4) environmental factors such as airspace design,
   weather, and infrastructure status, and 5) market forces. * Vehicle
   performance determines the viability of traffic management options.
   This determination is based largely on the vehicle's ability to comply
   with ATC clearances. Vehicles that do not possess the capability to
   fully comply are provided reserved airspace for their transitions to
   and from space. More responsive vehicles may also be provided reserved
   airspace; but these vehicles are candidates for positive ATC. As
   discussed in section 2.1, Space Transportation Vehicles, several
   vehicle characteristics such as launch/reentry technique, mode of
   pilotage, and CNS equipage affect this ability to comply with
   clearances. Figure 3 compares the effect of the basic launch and
   reentry concepts on mission planning and operations. LAUNCH &
   TRANSITION TO SPACE Horizontal Takeoff Vertical Launch Typically can
   comply with ATC clearances Typically can not comply with ATC clearances
   Greater horizontal velocity Greater vertical velocity Large ground
   footprint Small ground footprint More time to transition through the
   NAS Less time to transition through the NAS RE-ENTRY & RETURN TO
   LANDING SITE Powered Flight Unpowered Flight Ballistic Return Typically
   can comply with ATC clearances Can not comply with ATC clearances Can
   not comply with ATC clearances Discretionary committal to land
   Committed to land shortly after de-orbit Committed to land upon
   de-orbit Large ground footprint Moderate ground footprint Small ground
   footprint More time to transition from space Moderate time to
   transition from space Minimal time to transition from space Figure 3. *
   The mission profile helps determine the impact of launch/reentry on
   traffic flow through the NAS. Launch and reentry plans (e.g., departure
   location/ trajectory, reentry location/trajectory, landing location),
   and launch/reentry window sizes, are factors that determine the impact
   of the mission on NAS efficiency. The payload may also influence
   traffic management strategies.5 The combination of the mission profile
   and vehicle performance also dictates the options available in case of
   an aborted mission. * Environmental factors place constraints on
   commercial space operations. These factors Traffic Complexity include
   sector configurations, airport and spaceport configuration, weather
   conditions, High noise abatement requirements, etc.6 Mod * Traffic
   volume and controller workload at Low affected sectors influences the
   options for Workload Increase accommodating the vehicle during its
   transition through the NAS. Traffic variables such as & Scheduling
   Complexity Increase demand/capacity, dynamic density, volume, and
   Launch Window Size complexity will moderate controller workload and/or
   Size of Reserved Airspace and define the resources available for
   handling Interaction Between Air Traffic and Space Traffic the mission.
   Figure 47 illustrates the effect of Figure 4. 5 For example, vehicles
   with hazardous payloads (e.g., nuclear, biological, chemical) may
   require increased buffer zones, and/or trajectories that minimize the
   ground footprint over populated areas. 6 For example,
   airports/spaceports have limitations as to the types of space vehicles
   they can accommodate, while airspace sectorization affects system
   capacity and controller workload. 7 Adapted from a FAA sponsored study
   by Virginia Polytechnic Institute. Concept of Operations for CST in the
   NAS 10 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office
   of the Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation
   (AST) some of these variables on air traffic management and control. As
   shown, a given level of traffic complexity yields a workload level that
   varies directly with both the temporal launch window size and the
   physical size of reserved airspace. Figure 5 illustrates the
   operational interactions of these variables, and the application of
   emerging technologies to integrate space and aviation operations in the
   NAS. The balance of this section discusses applications of these
   variables to the major space mission phases that comprise the mission
   planning and mission operations activities.8 * As discussed below,
   major mission planning activities are 1) initial mission profile
   development, 2) space vehicle and air traffic integration, and 3)
   mission profile finalization. * Major mission operations activities are
   1) launch/takeoff, 2) ascent through the NAS, 3) reentry, 4) descent
   through the NAS and landing, and 4) hypersonic point-to-point
   transportation. Traffic & Workload Environment EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES
   Traffic Density Demand/Capacity Conflict Prediction / Resolution
   Traffic Volume AirspaceConfig Precise Scheduling Capabilities Traffic
   Complexity Spaceport Config. Dynamic Airspace Reconfiguration Weather
   Enhanced Weather Prediction Trajectory Modeling National National
   Simulation . `Aerospace Vehicle Profile Mission Profile `Aerospace
   Information Exchange / CDM tools System' Controllability Launch plan
   System' Cockpit Display of Traffic Reliability Re-entry plan
   Predictability Trajectory Improved CNS Performance IIP/Ground footprint
   Automation & Displays Q Equipage Launch window Decision Support Systems
   Payload System Performance Analysis Tools Factors Influencing Space
   Transportation Operations Figure 5. 3.1 Mission Planning The objective
   of the mission planning process is to develop a mission profile that
   meets user requirements while being sensitive to TM conditions and
   constraints. Strategically, mission planning is a collaborative process
   that involves end-to-end mission analysis and communication among the
   vehicle operator, TM, and AOCs to identify and exploit the
   flexibilities of the NAS. The overall mission planning process consists
   of mission profile development by the vehicle operator, collaboration
   between the vehicle operator and TM to integrate the mission into
   predicted traffic environment, and finalization of both the mission
   profile and the TM Initiatives required to implement it. 3.1.1 Mission
   Profile Development The mission profile is defined by the vehicle
   operator.9 It is used to determine support service requirements such as
   radar coverage, weather information/services, surveillance and
   telemetry requirements, payload processing requirements, etc. Shared
   access to all scheduled U.S. commercial launches is provided via the
   NAS-WIS, allowing mission planners to synchronize their operations and
   mission support services. DSSs and data visualization tools assist the
   vehicle operator in mining and integrating scheduling data for
   spaceports and air traffic operations. Advanced simulations and
   trajectory modeling integrates both vehicle performance modeling and
   current/forecast weather and wind information, allowing the analysis of
   the feasibility and risks of specific launch and landing schedule
   windows. In this way, the viability of desired trajectories and windows
   can be determined from the outset of the mission planning process. With
   the operational mission parameters defined, the vehicle operator
   coordinates with the spaceport to define support requirements. The
   vehicle operator also coordinates with TM to inform them of operational
   requirements. Since many missions are recurring and involve re-use of
   the same vehicles, the planning 8 The concepts presented in these
   discussions are intended to stimulate discussion among various
   stakeholders to arrive at a mutually agreeable concept. They may be
   revised as incremental progress is made in the months and years leading
   up to 2005. 9 The mission profile is developed before support services
   are contracted with the spaceport, since this information is required
   in the licensing process. Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 11
   Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the
   Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST)
   process becomes more concise for subsequent missions since baseline
   information exists in a space operations database. The product of this
   process is the end-to-end mission profile, which includes the launch
   and reentry information indicated on Table 1 below. Payload/Manifest
   (e.g., passengers, hazardous cargo) Mission duration Vehicle type/Class
   and Launch/Reentry Techniqu8e Launch window (primary, secondary) Flight
   profile/Preferred route/trajectory (launch & reentry) Reentry window
   (primary, secondary) Launch location Estimated Trajectory/Initial
   heading & azimuth Destination (e.g., LEO, MEO GEO, pt-pt) Air Defense
   Identification Zones (ADIZ) Point of reentry Instantaneous Impact Point
   (IIP)10 Landing location Weather (current & forecast) Traffic loading
   at time of launch & reentry-by stratum Space & Solar Conditions (solar
   flares, etc.) Airspace configuration (e.g., active MOAs, etc.)
   Information pertaining to on-orbit traffic STC information (e.g.,
   coordinates, schedule) Mission Profile Information Table 1. 3.1.2 Space
   Vehicle and Air Traffic Integration Upon completion of its initial
   development, the proposed mission profile is filed in the same manner
   as a flight plan. But unlike flight plans, mission profiles are
   automatically routed to SpOC traffic managers at the ATCSCC for
   individual handling. The primary objective of the TM function is to
   prevent demand/capacity imbalances that adversely affect controllers or
   users. To meet this objective, traffic managers respond to predicted
   imbalances by developing and implementing `Traffic Management
   Initiatives.' In addition to demand/capacity imbalances, TM Initiatives
   are also developed to support `special events,' which today are defined
   as air shows, VIP flights, etc. In preparation for a commercial space
   operation a TM Initiative is developed by SpOC. These TM Initiatives
   may consist of either a reconfiguration of NAS resources, and/or the
   implementation of traffic flow restrictions. NAS reconfigurations are
   used to increase the capacity of impacted resources, while traffic flow
   restrictions are used to restrain excess demand on those resources.
   These traffic flow restrictions may be imposed on aviation traffic, or
   upon the space mission itself within the limits of the mission's
   flexibility. After completing TM Initiative planning, SpOC distributes
   relevant information to the TM, ATC, ISFO, and users. The primary
   automation support in this process is provided by the TM Initiative
   Planner (reference paragraph 2.4.2). Any CDM participant may transmit
   the Planner to the others, all CDM participants can manipulate the
   Planner's capabilities, and manipulations by any party are apparent to
   the others. The Planner's capabilities and information include 1) the
   initial mission profile information, 2) a graphic depiction of the NAS
   configuration, 3) a graphic depiction of user-preferred trajectories,
   4) demand under current and alternative traffic situations, 5) relevant
   environmental information, and 6) trajectory modeling and fast-time
   simulation capabilities. The Planner allows collaborative analysis of
   the NAS configuration and traffic flow restrictions required to tailor
   the TM Initiative to the space mission, as follows: * CDM participants
   use the Planner to de-conflict the mission from all other aviation
   traffic, space missions, airspace, and weather. * CDM participants
   determine the most effective NAS configuration. The configuration
   elements that can be manipulated are airport/spaceport configuration,
   routings (aviation route structures, flexible spaceways, etc.), and
   airspace configurations (sectors, SUAs, STCs, etc.). 10 IIP is the
   impact point following thrust termination of a launch vehicle,
   calculated in the absence of atmospheric drag effects. Concept of
   Operations for CST in the NAS 12 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) * The Planner's fast-time
   analysis capability allows any configuration element to be modified on
   a trial basis to determine the traffic effects that result. By
   comparing the traffic effects of each alternative, CDM participants
   select the configuration that best accommodates the operational
   objectives of ATC, TM, aviation users, and the space mission. Concept
   of Operations for CST in the NAS 13 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) 3.1.3 Finalization of the TM
   Initiative and Mission Profile Working together via the TM Initiative
   Planner, the vehicle operator, TM, aviation users, and ISFO collaborate
   to refine the initial mission profile, and to finalize the associated
   TM Initiative, in order to accommodate the mission based on anticipated
   traffic demand, TM options, and the mission's inherent flexibility.11
   Fast-time simulations allow CDM participants to preview launch/reentry
   trajectories and air traffic flows, and to analyze variables such as
   vehicle performance, traffic loading, and weather. Upon analyzing the
   interactions between these variables, the TM Initiative Planner
   integrates the information and provides graphical outputs, including
   trajectory, scheduling, and buffer zone advisories to ensure safety of
   flight. Alternative scenarios and contingency plans are also evaluated
   to mitigate potential constraining factors such as adverse weather,
   traffic loading, etc.12 Contingency plans are also developed by the
   vehicle operator in the event the primary launch and reentry windows
   are unavailable (e.g., due to weather), if an off-nominal event occurs,
   or if the mission must be aborted. This precise and proactive planning
   reduces turn-around time between missions, optimizes spaceport
   capacity, minimizes schedule `churning' (the ripple effect created by
   cancelled/rescheduled launches and re-entries), and reduces the
   complexity of accommodating transition to/from space. The planning
   process is completed well in advance of the mission in order to allow
   notification to other NAS users and pertinent domestic and
   international organizations. The required lead time depends on the
   mission profile and vehicle characteristics. 3.2 Launch/Takeoff Upon
   completing the planning process, SpOC disseminates the mission profile
   via the NAS-WIS to notify airmen, mariners, and the military of the
   impending mission. AOCs and Flight Advisory Services (FAS) also receive
   this information. As the mission launch time approaches, SpOC
   distributes the TM Initiative Planner to all relevant TM, ATC, MP,
   ISFO, and AOC positions to coordinate the implementation of the TM
   Initiative (e.g., STCs, resectorization, traffic flow modulation, etc.)
   as required to accommodate the mission.13 Notification of the approved
   mission profile is accompanied by event prompts that provide positive
   notification when updated information is received. To implement the
   launch/takeoff, general pre-departure actions that apply to both
   vertical and horizontal departures (reference section 2.1, Space
   TransportationVehicles) are as follows: * DSSs facilitate the
   integration of the mission into the overall traffic situation. TM
   previews launch schedules for space vehicles. Sequencing and scheduling
   tools provide TM advisories and ensure that the launch is well
   coordinated with prevailing arrival and departure traffic. * The
   NAS-WIS enables domestic and international users and service providers
   to access mission profiles and associated STC data. AOCs, airline
   pilots, and general aviation pilots access this data during flight
   planning, either by contacting the FAS or accessing the NAS-WIS, to
   ensure their flight plans are free of conflict with any space
   launch/reentry operation. * The vehicle operator controls departure
   activities to ensure that the departure will conform to the mission
   profile. At a predetermined time before departure, the vehicle operator
   provides a status report to the SpOC, which in turn notifies ATC. The
   vehicle operator and TM/ATC establish the necessary communication
   links, and review the TM Initiative that will be instituted. Depending
   on the departure location, this may occur several hours in advance so
   that international traffic receives timely notification. * Departure
   status is displayed to TM and controllers. Event prompts signal the
   need to activate STCs and clear traffic from the airspace. ATC then
   monitors STC status and separates traffic from active STCs. Conflict
   prediction tools assist ATC in detecting aircraft that will conflict
   with the STC. 11 Launch time flexibility is a function of payload
   destination (LEO, MEO, GEO) and orbital insertion point. Launch
   location/trajectory is influenced by payload destination and physical
   laws. Launch window size is affected by the movement of the earth
   relative to the target orbit, and launch site location. 12 For example,
   the preferred launch trajectory and window are compared against traffic
   predictions (e.g., based on historical data) to provide a high-level
   assessment of potential TM constraints and impacts to traffic flows.
   Similar analysis is performed for reentry phase. 13 For example,
   dynamic reservation of the STC is influenced by the lead time ATC needs
   to route aircraft around the reserved airspace, while the dynamic
   release of the STC is influenced by the airspace `occupancy time' of
   the space vehicle as it transitions to/from space. Concept of
   Operations for CST in the NAS 14 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) * Upon departure, the vehicle
   operator controls vehicle status and TM/ATC controls the traffic
   situation. 14 TM, ATC, and the vehicle operator collaborate to
   implement the appropriate contingency plan if a compromise to safety is
   detected. 14 The VO requests ATC clearance for vehicles departing from
   a runway. ATC performs a final situation assessment and issues the
   clearance. Concept of Operations for CST in the NAS 15 Version 2.0 May
   11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) 3.3 Ascent
   Through the NAS Entry to orbit requires a nearly vertical,
   high-acceleration ascent that precludes the use of positive ATC. For
   vertical launches, this high-performance ascent begins immediately,
   while vehicles that depart horizontally transition through the NAS to
   an airborne point where a vertical, high-acceleration ascent to is
   initiated. The vertical ascent of all missions is accommodated through
   use of an STC. Therefore, the STC for vertical departures extends from
   the surface to the upper limit of the NAS, while the conventional
   portion of the trajectory for horizontal departures may be handled
   either with an STC or through positive ATC. The following paragraphs
   describe these basic options for handling ascents through the NAS.
   3.3.1 Positive ATC from the Surface to A High-Altitude STC The decision
   to use positive ATC is made by TM during mission planning.15 The
   vehicle may be cleared on flexible spaceways to the point at which the
   vertical ascent begins. Once the vehicle reaches this vertical ascent
   point, the mission is then accommodated by an STC to the upper limit of
   the NAS. * Initial Ascent Using Positive ATC. Upon departure, vehicle
   position is tracked on ATC situation displays. ATC issues clearances to
   the vehicle operator while the vehicle flies to the point at which the
   vertical ascent is initiated. Conflict detection tools recognize the
   vehicle's performance, and provide appropriate resolutions. If the
   mission involves a host aircraft (e.g., the vehicle is carried or
   towed, or involves aerial fueling), the vehicle operator assumes
   responsibility for separation of the launch vehicle from its host
   aircraft. Collision avoidance systems aboard interacting aircraft
   recognize the space transportation vehicle and provide conflict
   advisories to the aircraft flight decks. * Final Ascent through A
   High-Altitude STC. As the space transportation vehicle approaches the
   vertical ascent point, a high-altitude STC is activated. The STC
   includes horizontal airspace to contain the route to the vertical
   ascent point, and vertical airspace to accommodate the transition to
   the NAS upper limit.16 STC data is depicted on TM/ATC displays, along
   with weather and traffic data to provide a complete view of the
   situation. Controllers receive event prompts that signal STC status
   changes. Conflict prediction and resolution advisories provide
   notification of flights that conflict with the STC. 17 - As the vehicle
   approaches the STC, ATC assesses the traffic situation and activates
   the STC. - Upon entering the STC, the vehicle operator assumes
   responsibility for maneuvering the vehicle through the vertical portion
   of the STC. If a host aircraft is involved (e.g., the vehicle is
   carried or towed), the vehicle operator and host aircraft pilot are
   responsible for separating the vehicle and host aircraft. - If the
   launch system includes a host aircraft, the operator of the host
   aircraft contacts ATC after the space vehicle separates, to gain
   clearance to exit the STC. - The horizontal portion of the STC is
   released either when 1) the host aircraft exits the STC on its return
   to base, or 2) a non-hosted space vehicle enters the vertical portion
   of the STC. - The vertical portion of the STC is released as the space
   vehicle transitions through the upper limit of the NAS. 3.3.2 Ascent
   Through An STC From The Surface Vehicles that are not controlled by
   positive ATC for their initial ascent are separated from other non-
   participating aircraft by an STC from departure on the ground to the
   upper limit of the NAS.18 The STC's size and time of activation are
   tailored to meet the mission profile and vehicle characteristics.
   Ascent through a STC from the surface is conducted as follows: 15 For
   positive ATC, the vehicle must be able to be tracked; the vehicle
   operator must have direct voice or datalink communications with ATC,
   and affected ATC sectors must remain within acceptable levels of
   controller workload. 16 To illustrate, this type of `box & stovepipe'
   STC will have the basic physical characteristics of a 3-D polygon lying
   below a cylindrical column. 17 Airspace contention is minimized since
   traffic in this altitude region consists only of other space vehicles,
   military aircraft, supersonic and hypersonic transports, and small
   numbers of new types of unmanned craft in geostationary positions. 18
   Alternatively, other means of separation (such `moving ALTRVs,' etc.)
   may be also used based on operational conditions and necessity. Concept
   of Operations for CST in the NAS 16 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal
   Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation (AST) * The vehicle's position and STC
   status is available on situation displays at ATC, TM, and SpOC
   positions. STC strata are reserved and released as the vehicle
   progresses. STC schedule, status, and coordinates are depicted on
   integrated TM and controller displays, and complemented by weather and
   traffic information to provide a comprehensive view of the current and
   impending situation. * TM/ATC receive event prompts for STC status
   changes. In addition, conflict prediction and resolution advisories
   indicate flights that conflict with the STC. Using DSS advisories and
   advanced situation displays, ATC anticipates future airspace status and
   directs flights through or away from the airspace based on its
   availability. * STC information is provided on the flight decks of
   aircraft that are equipped with CDTI. These aircraft using CDTI may
   monitor and self-separate from active STCs, as directed by ATC. VFR
   flights access real-time STC status information by contacting FAS, or
   via NAS-WIS/Datalink. * The vehicle operator informs ATC when the
   vehicle exits the NAS, and the STC is released. 3.3.3 Space Mission
   Abort An ascent abort may become necessary if there is a failure that
   severely degrades vehicle performance. The vehicle operator during the
   mission planning phase plans for all feasible abort scenarios.
   Contingency trajectories and STCs are reserved and released by TM/ATC
   as the ascent progresses. Upon implementation of an abort mode, ATC
   handles the mission and interacting traffic according to the abort
   profile that is preplanned for that juncture of the ascent. Five
   general types of aborts are discussed below. The type and timing of the
   failure determines the type of abort mode selected. The five abort
   modes are: * `Contingency Abort' results from massive failure which
   allows the survival of the crew (if the vehicle is operated by an
   on-board crew), but the probable destruction of the vehicle. This abort
   mode is not chosen if another option exists. * `Abort to Orbit' allows
   the vehicle to achieve a temporary orbit that is lower than nominal.
   This allows time to evaluate problems and then choose either an early
   reentry or a thrusting maneuver to raise the orbit and continue the
   mission. * `Abort Once Around' allows the vehicle to fly one orbit and
   make a normal entry and landing. * `Return To Launch Site' involves
   continued flight downrange to dissipate propellant, then a course
   reversal under power to return for landing at or near the launch site.
   * `Cross-Country Landing' permits a landing at a downrange site, using
   a ballistic trajectory that does not require an orbital thrusting
   maneuver. This abort may place the vehicle at a site that cannot
   support a space launch, thus requiring the vehicle to be flown or
   transported through the NAS to its normal launch site. Except for
   ballistic or hypersonic-point-to-point vehicles, this operation is
   conducted using normal ATC/TM procedures. Vehicles making this
   transition on ultra-high- performance trajectories may utilize the
   mission planning processes used for space operations. 3.4 Reentry
   Throughout the mission, the vehicle operator provides mission updates
   to the SpOC. This mission information may be accessed by other NAS
   users for strategic planning. For short duration missions (e.g., one
   week or less), the reentry plan is included in the initial mission
   profile. For longer missions, the reentry plan is coordinated at a
   predetermined time prior to the reentry.19 If a reentry plan was
   included in the initial mission profile, the vehicle operator contacts
   SpOC at a predetermined time to confirm the reentry window and
   trajectory. If the reentry plan must be modified, the vehicle operator
   coordinates the revised plan with the SpOC, AOCs, military, and
   international ATC. Current reentry information is disseminated via the
   NAS-WIS, along with notices to airmen, mariners, and the military.20
   Shortly before reentry, the vehicle operator contacts SpOC and requests
   clearance to re-enter the NAS. The reentry is then conducted as
   follows: * Reentry plans are used by TM to define appropriate STCs.
   Like the STCs used for transitions to space, baseline STCs exist to
   support typical vehicle reentries. These STCs are dynamically reserved
   and released, and may be tailored to satisfy specific mission or
   vehicle profiles. 19 The lead time for this coordination depends upon
   the vehicle's reentry profile, trajectory, and destination. 20 If an
   Air Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) is affected, Air Defense Command
   (ADC) is notified by an event prompt. Concept of Operations for CST in
   the NAS 17 Version 2.0 May 11, 2001 Federal Aviation Administration
   Office of the Associate Administrator for Commercial Space
   Transportation (AST) * SpOC performs fast-time scheduling analyses to
   determine the reentry plan's feasibility, and coordinates with the
   appropriate sectors. ATC then issues the reentry clearance. For
   unpowered returns, reentry clearance is an implied clearance to land,
   since the vehicle is committed to its return upon de-orbiting. * The
   SpOC disseminates notification to airmen, mariners, military, AOCs,
   FAS, and ISFO via the NAS-WIS. Affected sectors are notified by SpOC of
   the reentry. STC event prompts assist in establishing traffic
   awareness. Conflict prediction and resolution capabilities help
   controllers mitigate conflicts between air traffic and active STCs, and
   to resume use of the airspace as STC strata are released. Sequencing
   and scheduling advisories assist in managing traffic flows. * NAS users
   may access mission and STC i
