http://www.usitc.gov/er/nl2002/ER0129Z1.HTM

   January 29, 2002
   News Release 02-013

GLOBAL ISSUES AFFECTING U.S. INDUSTRIES AND THE TECHNOLOGICAL COMPETITIVENESS
         OF THE UNITED STATES ARE FOCUS OF ITC QUARTERLY PUBLICATION

   NAFTA's effect on U.S. economic activity and the potential
   restructuring of the U.S. aluminum industry are among the topics
   examined in the current issue of Industry Trade and Technology Review
   (ITTR), a quarterly publication of the U.S. International Trade
   Commission's Office of Industries.

   Industry Trade and Technology Review (ITTR) contains articles
   originating from research and analysis conducted by International Trade
   Commission (ITC) staff as part of its responsibilities to provide
   advice and technical information on industry and trade issues. The ITTR
   provides analysis of important issues and insights into the global
   position of U.S. industries, the technological competitiveness of the
   United States, and implications of trade and policy developments.

   The ITTR is a publication of the Office of Industries. The opinions and
   conclusions it contains are those of the authors and are not the views
   of the Commission or of any individual Commissioner.

   The current issue (December 2001) includes the following articles:

     * Evidence of Trade, Income, and Employment Effects of NAFTA --
       U.S.-Mexico trade has tripled in nominal terms since introduction
       of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994, but
       only part of this growth can be attributed directly to the actual
       provisions of the agreement. NAFTA's effect on the U.S. gross
       domestic product has likely been small, but positive. Trade policy
       in general, and NAFTA in particular, tends to shift jobs between
       sectors rather than to create or destroy jobs in the aggregate. The
       impact on workers in some sectors has been relatively greater than
       on those in others, but the experience of workers displaced due to
       NAFTA has likely been similar to that of workers displaced for
       reasons unrelated to trade. This article examines factors affecting
       the growth in U.S.-Mexico trade, provides perspectives on NAFTA's
       income and employment effects on the U.S. economy, and summarizes
       the principal findings of existing evidence regarding the influence
       of NAFTA on U.S. economic activity.
     * U.S. Primary Aluminum: Power Costs and Market Conditions Could
       Cause Long-term Restructuring -- U.S. primary aluminum production
       declined sharply in the past year as electric power costs rose
       substantially in the Pacific Northwest. Although power prices have
       recently declined, regional production is unlikely to rebound in
       the near term, given relatively low aluminum prices and declining
       downstream demand for fabricated aluminum products. Reduced
       production may portend a longer-term contraction of the U.S.
       industry, stemming from changes in the contractual agreements
       between Pacific Northwest aluminum producers and their main
       electric power provider and rising production of foreign primary
       aluminum and U.S. secondary aluminum. This article examines the
       current state of the Pacific Northwest aluminum industry, market
       conditions affecting U.S. production, and the outlook for the U.S.
       primary aluminum industry.

   In addition, the publication includes an appendix charting key
   performance indicators for the steel, automobile, aluminum, flat glass,
   and services industries.

   Industry Trade and Technology Review (USITC Publication 3483, December
   2001) will be posted on the ITC's Internet server at
   http://www.usitc.gov. A cumulative list of articles published in the
   report series is also posted. The ITTR will also be available at
   regional federal depository libraries in the United States. To request
   a printed copy of the ITTR or to be added to the mailing list, contact
   the Office of the Secretary, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E
   Street SW, Washington DC 20436. Requests may also be faxed to
   202-205-2104.

                                  -- 30 --
