http://www.compliance.gov/images/hatcher.pdf

   OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE LA 200, John Adams Building, 110 Second Street,
   S.E. Washington, DC 20540-1999 ____________________________________ )
   LAWRENCE HATCHER, ) Appellant, ) ) v. ) Case No. 96-AC-15 (CV, RP) )
   OFFICE OF THE ARCHITECT ) OF THE CAPITOL, ) Appellee. )
   ____________________________________) Before the Board of Directors:
   Glen D. Nager, Chair; James N. Adler; Jerry M. Hunter; Lawrence Z.
   Lorber; Virginia A. Seitz, Members DECISION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
   Appellant, Lawrence C. Hatcher, ("appellant") appeals only from that
   portion of the Hearing Officer's decision dismissing his claim that he
   was transferred in reprisal for filing complaints of discrimination, in
   violation of section 207(a) of the Congressional Accountability Act
   (the "CAA"), 2 U.S.C. ยง 1317(a); he has not appealed from that portion
   of the Hearing Officer's decision finding that he had not been sexually
   harassed. For the reasons set forth below, the Board affirms the
   Hearing Officer's decision. I. As found by the Hearing Officer,
   appellant is a computer specialist currently assigned to the Office of
   the Director of Engineering, Air Conditioning Engineering Division in
   the Office of the Architect of the Capitol ("AOC"). See Decision at 2
   (Finding of Fact No. 1). He has been employed by the AOC since November
   of 1989 in a series of long-term temporary positions, beginning as a
   computer operator, grade 5, in the Computer Operations Branch of
   Information Resources Management ("IRM") in the AOC. See id. at 2-3
   (Findings of Fact Nos. 2, 3); see also Complainant's Exhibit Nos. 6, 8.
   In November of 1990, appellant started working as a computer programmer
   in the Applications Branch of IRM in a small office under the direct
   supervision of the Chief of the Applications Branch, Betty Ann Rouse.
   See Decision at 2-3 (Findings of Fact Nos. 2, 3). Although appellant
   received two grade promotions and two in-grade step increases while
   under Mrs. Rouse's supervision, rising from grade 5 to grade 9 step 3,
   see id. (Finding of Fact No. 4), appellant's job performance came under
   criticism, see id. (Finding of Fact No. 5). For example, in 1994, he
   was required to make certain improvements in order to receive an
   in-grade promotion and in 1995 he was placed on a formal "Performance
   Improvement Plan." Id.; see also Tr. at 531-32; Complainant's Exhibit
   No. 1. Appellant's job performance problems were marked by increasing
   conflicts with Mrs. Rouse. See id. at 3-4 (Finding of Fact No. 6).
   Appellant repeatedly interrupted Mrs. Rouse to ask her questions and to
   argue with her evaluations of his work, leading her to have a partition
   constructed around her desk. See id.; see also Tr. at 350-52;
   Respondent's Exhibit No. 33. In addition to face-to-face
   confrontations, appellant also sent Mrs. Rouse "unseemly" e-mails.
   Decision at 4 (Finding of Fact No. 6); see also Respondent's Exhibit
   Nos. 14-17. Several times in 1994, "work related conflict spilled over
   into confrontation on the public streets." Decision at 4 (Finding of
   Fact No.6); see also Tr. at 367-72; 398-401. The Fair Employment
   Practice Office ("FEP") of the AOC recommended that appellant complete
   gender communication training. See Decision at 4 (Finding of Fact No.
   6); see also Respondent's Exhibit No. 18. Finally, on November 3, 1995,
   Mrs. Rouse wrote a memorandum to the Director of IRM, her supervisor,
   Richard A. Kashurba, asking him to transfer appellant permanently from
   her unit. See Decision at 4 (Finding of Fact No. 7). "This request was
   consistent with a 1994 memo to Mr. Hatcher in which [Mrs. Rouse]
   suggested a transfer to alleviate his problems." Id.; see also
   Respondent's Exhibit No. 27. Steps were then taken to effectuate
   appellant's transfer in order "to give [him] a fresh start . . . .
   instead of firing him." Decision at 7 (Finding of Fact No. 11.b.(1));
   see also Tr. at 426-32, 510-11, 514. The Air Conditioning Engineering
   Division had long perceived the need for a computer specialist, see
   Decision at 7 (Finding of Fact No. 11.b.(2)), and Mr. Kashurba agreed
   to transfer appellant's position, along with appellant, from the
   Applications Branch to the Office of the Director of Engineering, see
   Decision at 8 (Finding of Fact No. 11.c.(1)); see also Tr. at 258.
   Between November 1995 and March 1996, steps were taken to effectuate
   the change, see Decision at 7 (Finding of Fact No. 11.b.(1)); on
   January 16, 1996, the Director of Engineering and the Assistant
   Director of Engineering formally requested the transfer, see
   Respondent's Exhibit No. 5, and on February 21, 1996, William Ensign,
   Acting Architect of the Capitol, approved the new position, see
   Respondent's Exhibit No. 3. On March 4, 1996, appellant, aware of his
   imminent transfer, see Decision at 4, 7 (Findings of Fact Nos. 9 &
   11(a)), initiated written proceedings with the FEP, alleging that Mrs.
   Rouse had made unwelcome sexual advances to him in 1991 and 1992 and
   that, since his rejection of them, he had been discriminated against in
   his work, see id. at 4 (Finding of Fact No. 9); see also Complainant's
   Exhibit No. 5 at 1-2. On March 6, 1996, appellant received a letter
   dated March 4, 1996, notifying him formally of his transfer to the
   Office of the Director of Engineering, Air Conditioning Engineering
   Division of the AOC, effective March 10, 1996. See Respondent's Exhibit
   No. 4. The letter stated that the "reassignment is not considered an
   adverse action and provides the same career path as the position you
   currently occupy in Information Resources Management." Id. Appellant
   remains at the same grade and step as in his previous position. See
   Decision at 8 (Finding of Fact No. 11.c.(1)). 2 II. Appellant filed a
   complaint with the Office of Compliance alleging that "Mr. Kashurba's
   and Ms. Rouse's continuing discrimination, creating a hostile
   environment, reprisal, and subsequent reassigning me to the Air
   Conditioning Division is a direct result of my refusal to reciprocate
   Ms. Rouse's sexual advances and for initiating discriminatory
   complaints against them with the FEP Office on March 4, 1996, October
   1995, June 1995, and/or September 1994." Complaint at 1. As provided
   under section 405 of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. ยง 1405, a full hearing was held
   before a Hearing Officer. Appellant, represented by counsel, testified
   on his own behalf and introduced 16 exhibits. The AOC called four
   witnesses, including Mrs. Rouse, Mr. Kashurba, and Ms. DiCanio, and
   offered 30 exhibits. In a written decision incorporating separate
   Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Officer rejected
   both appellant's claim of sexual harassment and his claim of
   retaliatory transfer. The Hearing Officer concluded that appellant had
   "failed to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the Office of
   the Architect of the Capitol discriminated against Lawrence C. Hatcher
   in employment matters." Decision at 9 (Conclusion of Law No. 2). The
   Hearing Officer's conclusion that appellant had failed to prove any
   sexual harassment was based on the documentary evidence and her
   assessment of the testimony, particularly the credibility of appellant
   and Mrs. Rouse. She found that appellant's testimony regarding his
   allegations of sexual harassment was "not credible": "It comes 4-5
   years after the alleged events and smacks of recent fabrication
   designed to challenge his transfer. H[is] assertion of reluctance to
   come forward earlier is fatuous particularly in light of his frequent
   use of the FEP Office for other complaints about Mrs. Rouse. His
   testimony does not match his prior affidavits." Id. at 5 (Finding of
   Fact No.10.a.(1)). In contrast, the Hearing Officer specifically
   credited Mrs. Rouse's testimony, which she found "had a ring of
   authenticity and accuracy." Id. at 6 (Finding of Fact No. 10.a.(3)). As
   to appellant's claim of retaliatory transfer, the Hearing Officer
   reached the following Conclusion of Law: Complainant did not establish
   that any employment decisions concerning him were reprisal or
   retaliation for initiating complaints of discrimination against Mrs.
   Rouse. He did not prove that his transfer was an adverse action or that
   it was causally connected to his initiation of a discrimination
   complaint thus he failed to establish at least two of the legal
   requisites for this claim. Marzec v. Marsh, 990 F.2d 393, 396 (8th Cir.
   1993). Id. at 9-10 (Conclusion of Law No. 2 ). In support of this
   conclusion, the Hearing Officer found that there was no improper
   conduct underlying any employment action respecting appellant in the
   entire period in which Mrs. Rouse was his supervisor: "Mr. Hatcher's
   work experiences and the employment decisions made concerning him from
   1990-1996 were not the result of unlawful conduct by Respondent." Id.
   at 6 (Finding of Fact No. 10.b). Rather, the Hearing Officer 3
   concluded: "The credible testimony and the documentary exhibits
   establish that Mr. Hatcher's work environment and the employment
   decisions were the result of such factors as his apparent inability to
   do some of the work, his refusal to follow directions and what appears
   to be poor interpersonal skill." Id. (Finding of Fact No. 10.b.(1)) In
   addition, the Hearing Officer made specific findings in support of her
   conclusion that the "transfer was not motivated by discriminatory
   animus or in response to the allegations of sexual harassment." Id. at
   7-8 (Finding of Fact No. 11.b). The Hearing Officer, crediting the
   testimony of the AOC's witnesses, found that the "transfer was designed
   to give Mr. Hatcher a fresh start. His supervisors and the Fair
   Employment Practice Office of the Architect of the Capitol helped him
   instead of firing him." Id. at 7 (Finding of Fact No. 11.b.(1)).
   Moreover, the Hearing Officer stated that she was persuaded by
   testimony in the record that there was a "long-perceived need for
   computer assistance in the Office of the Director of Engineering." Id.
   (Finding of Fact No. 11.b.(2)). The Hearing Officer also made specific
   findings to support her conclusion that the transfer was not an adverse
   action. She found that appellant's actual position was transferred from
   his old unit to the new, and her analysis of the position descriptions
   of appellant's old and new jobs led her to conclude that the
   differences between them were "de minimis." Id. at 8 (Finding of Fact
   No.11.c.(1)). Moreover, the "`professional status'" appellant enjoyed
   in his old job was not, in the Hearing Officer's view, "diminished by
   the transfer." Id. (Finding of Fact No.11.c.(2)). The Hearing Officer
   further found that data entry tasks were necessitated by the start-up
   requirements of the job and did not detract from the "professional
   stature and growth in being the first computer specialist to serve the
   Engineering Division." Id. III. Under section 406(c) of the CAA, "[t]he
   Board shall set aside a decision of a hearing officer if the Board
   determines that the decision was- (1) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse
   of discretion, or otherwise not consistent with law; (2) not made
   consistent with required procedures; or (3) unsupported by substantial
   evidence." 2 U.S.C. ยง 1406(c). "In making determinations under
   subsection (c), the Board shall review the whole record, or those parts
   of it cited by a party, and due account shall be taken of the rule of
   prejudicial error." 2 U.S.C. ยง 1406(d). Applying these standards, and
   after review of the record as a whole, the Board concludes that the
   Hearing Officer's decision should be affirmed. Appellant does not
   challenge the Hearing Officer's Conclusion of Law that, in order to
   prove a claim of unlawful retaliation under section 207, he had to
   show, among other things, that his transfer "was causally connected to
   his initiation of a discrimination complaint." Id. at 10 (Conclusion of
   Law No. 2). Rather, appellant appears to challenge the factual finding
   on which that legal conclusion is based, that the "transfer was not
   motivated by discriminatory animus or in response to the allegations of
   sexual harassment." Decision at 7 (Finding of Fact No. 11.b). In the
   Board's judgment, however, the Hearing Officer's finding regarding
   causation is supported by 4 substantial evidence in the record.
   "Substantial evidence is more than a mere scintilla. It means such
   relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to
   support a conclusion." Universal Camera Corp. v. National Labor
   Relations Board , 340 U.S. 474, 477, 71 S. Ct. 456, 459 (1951)
   (citation omitted). The record in this case clearly would allow a
   reasonable mind to conclude that appellant's transfer was not in
   retaliation for his filing of any discrimination complaint. The record
   amply documents the Hearing Officer's finding respecting Mr. Hatcher's
   job performance problems. See, e.g., Tr. at 322-24 (supervisor found
   appellant unable completely to master certain programming tasks and to
   work independently of close supervision, as required at grade 9); see
   also Tr. at 402-06; Tr. at 531 (supervisor considered withholding
   within-grade step increase because of performance problems);
   Respondent's Exhibit No. 20 (within-grade step increase conditioned on
   making improvements in specified areas); Respondent's Exhibit No. 11
   (appellant was refused a requested promotion to grade 11 because of
   work performance problems); Complainant's Exhibit No. 1 (appellant
   placed on a Performance Improvement Plan, which required that he
   rectify certain enumerated performance problems or face disciplinary
   action). The record also fully supports the Hearing Officer's finding
   that appellant's job performance problems were accompanied by
   escalating conflicts with Mrs. Rouse. See, e.g. Tr. at 350-52
   (appellant's repeated interruptions of Mrs. Rouse to ask her questions
   and to argue with her evaluations of his work led her to have a
   partition constructed around her desk); Tr. at 367- 72; 379-82
   (testimony of Mrs. Rouse describing various incidents in which
   appellant accosted her in public, used offensive language, made
   personal remarks, "hit at" her with a document, ignored her requests
   that he cease bothering her); Respondent's Exhibit No. 27 (Mrs. Rouse's
   letter of May 3, 1994 to appellant advising him to cease
   "unprofessional" "personal" conversations and to stop following her and
   waiting for her outside the office); Respondent's Exhibit No. 18 (FEP
   attorney letter of Sept. 6, 1994, advising Mr. Hatcher that unless he
   satisfactorily completes gender communication training and modifies his
   behavior, his supervisors believe that he "should seek alternative
   employment"); Tr. at 256-57; see also Respondent's Exhibit No. 7. The
   above record evidence provides ample support for the Hearing Officer's
   finding that appellant's supervisors transferred appellant as an
   alternative to termination in order to give appellant the opportunity
   to make a fresh start in a different division. See, e.g., Tr. at 426-32
   (testimony of Mrs. Rouse that she recommended transfer, rather than
   suspension or termination, to give appellant another chance); Tr. at
   510-14 (testimony of Ms. DiCanio describing discussions respecting
   appellant's transfer, corroborating testimony of Mrs. Rouse that
   transfer was motivated by desire to give appellant a fresh start, "the
   opportunity to possibly succeed," because he had done reasonable work
   while on temporary transfer, rather than taking alternative options of
   abolishing his temporary position or firing him); see also Tr. at 259
   (testimony of Richard Kashurba that his sole reasons for arranging
   transfer of position and appellant from IRM to the Engineering Division
   were to fill the need for a computer specialist in the Engineering
   Division and because Mr. Hatcher was not performing satisfactorily in
   his current position). 5 In arguing to the contrary, appellant points
   to a few phrases in Mrs. Rouse's memorandum of November 3, 1995,
   respecting appellant's frequent filing of EEO complaints in response to
   her criticism. But appellant has done no more than identify evidence
   that, if construed in favor of appellant, points in the opposite
   direction from the Hearing Officer's conclusions. That evidence need
   not be construed in such a way, however. Other evidence in the record
   directly supports the contrary construction, see, e.g. Tr. at 426-27,
   and, as noted above, the overwhelming mass of the record evidence
   points strongly against appellant. Accordingly, the evidence to which
   appellant points is not legally sufficient to allow rejection of the
   Hearing Officer's finding. See Arkansas v. Oklahoma, 503 U.S. 91, 113,
   112 S. Ct.1046, 1060 (1992) ("A court reviewing an agency's
   adjudicative action should accept the agency's factual findings if
   those findings are supported by substantial evidence on the record as a
   whole. The court should not supplant the agency's findings merely by
   identifying alternative findings that could be supported by substantial
   evidence.") (citation omitted). IV. The Board need not and does not
   address alternative grounds of the Hearing Officer's decision or
   appellee's other arguments for affirmance. Rather, for the reasons set
   forth above, the Board affirms the Hearing Officer's decision. It is so
   ordered. Issued, Washington, D.C., February 18, 1998. 6
