http://www.nipc.gov/publications/nipcpub/bestpract.html


   [Nipclogo.jpg]

                                 National Infrastructure Protection Center

                  BEST PRACTICES FOR WIRELESS FIDELITY (802.11b)
                              NETWORK VULNERABILITIES

      Computer security experts have successfully intercepted and broken the
      security built into the IEEE 802.11b Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
        standard. The software tools used to exploit the vulnerability are
         simple to use and available on the Internet as freeware. The WLAN
       industry has responded with a set of best practices that will assist
         the corporate and individual WLAN users to mitigate risk to their
                                      system.

       The deployment of wireless networking systems is proceeding rapidly.
       Advancements in the technology and reduction in the cost of ownership
        have converged such that wireless systems are becoming a measurable
       part of the national information infrastructure. The growth in sales
       booked and sales projected indicate that it qualifies as a technology
         mega-trend. Along with their convenience and popularity, however,
        wireless systems provide new and attractive opportunities for those
          seeking to exploit them. "Raising the security bar" by reducing
         wireless network vulnerabilities, therefore, becomes an important
         consideration for any organization that adopts wireless systems.

             There are several different wireless networking technical
       standards.^(1) Currently the IEEE 802.11b standard, Wireless Fidelity
      (Wi-Fi) wireless Ethernet, is widely deployed. Over one hundred vendors
      are members of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance (WECA), the
       trade organization which seeks to shepherd development and deployment
                                   of WLAN.^(2)

      A WLAN is essentially a radio system. It broadcasts the data traffic to
      anyone who is in proximity to intercept it. The effective transmission
      range can vary from a hundred feet to an entire campus. To enhance data
      integrity, WECA members adopted an integrated encryption scheme called
      Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) into the 802.11b standard. The standard
         was assumed to be adequate since no beta testing had been able to
        defeat WEP without a significant computing effort. In August 2001,
       however, a group of experts announced they had succeeded in defeating
       the WEP security scheme. Since that publication, various hacker tools
      that greatly facilitate exploitation of the vulnerability have appeared
       on public web sites. Successful exploitation of the vulnerability has
        been simplified to getting within range to intercept the broadcast.

       WECA has announced that a revision to Wi-Fi, dubbed 802.11i, is under
      development, and may be ready for certification testing in 2002. In the
       meantime, WECA has published the WEP Security Statement as a list of
      best practices for corporate and individual users. The Statement may be
         found at http://www.Wi-Fi.com/pdf/20011015_WEP_Security.pdf, and
        includes advice for users in both small and large environments. For
        smaller organizations, including home users, and for lesser-valued
                data, WECA recommends one or more of the following:

        a) Turn WEP on and manage your WEP key by changing the default key
        and, subsequently, changing the WEP key, daily to weekly.

        b) Password protect drives and folders.

        c) Change the default SSID (Wireless Network Name).

        d) Use session keys if available in your product.

        e) Use MAC address filtering if available in your product.

        f) Use a VPN system. Though it would require a VPN server, the VPN
        client is already included in many operating systems such as Windows
        98 Second Edition, Windows 2000 and Windows XP.

        For larger organizations, or where the value of the data justifies
      strong protection by a small business or home user, the WECA statement
                 provides examples of additional security methods.

       1. The focus of this paper is the WEP vulnerability of IEEE 802.11b.
        Vulnerabilities in other systems like 802.11a and Bluetooth, should
                 they arise, will need to be addressed separately.

       2. Some of the vendors have reduced the complexity of installing the
      systems by engineering them to be appliances. They can be as simple to
      install as a kitchen toaster. As we have seen with other technologies,
             there is added risk by accepting the default settings of
       computer-related software, or by lacking familiarity with recommended
               best practices that go beyond the 'system on' button.
