http://cox.house.gov/press/releases/2001/1128indasign.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.
   [flagone.jpg] Order a Flag

    President Bush Signs Chairman Cox’s Internet Tax Freedom Bill Into
                                     Law

           WASHINGTON (Wednesday, November 28, 2001)—President George W.
   Bush signed into law H.R. 1552, House Policy Chairman Christopher Cox’s
   Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act, this afternoon at the White House.
   The new law extends through November 1, 2003 the moratorium on new,
   special, and discriminatory Internet taxes that was originally enacted
   in 1998 and also authored by Chairman Cox.

           President Bush praised the legislation, noting that, “the
   government should be promoting Internet usage and availability, not
   discouraging it with access taxes and discriminatory taxes.”

           The legislation signed by President Bush today extends through
   November 1, 2003, the ban on multiple and discriminatory Internet
   taxes, and Internet access taxes. The legislation also extends the
   “Sense of the Congress” resolution that there should be no federal
   taxes on Internet access or electronic commerce, and that the United
   States work aggressively through the EU and WTO to keep electronic
   commerce free from tariffs and discriminatory taxes.

           “President Bush, Vice President Cheney, Governor Jim Gilmore,
   and Senator Ron Wyden are to be commended for their leadership on this
   legislation,” said Chairman Cox. “Their efforts have ensured that
   Internet traffic isn’t jammed by predatory taxes.”

                                   #  #  #

   Click here for more information about Chairman Cox's efforts on
   Internet tax.
