http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/dpbackbay1103.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.

                      Back Bay funding passes Congress

      Bill that would bring more than $1 million for dredging and other
            environmental projects awaits president's signature.

                                 Daily Pilot

                              November 3, 2001

   By Paul Clinton
   UPPER NEWPORT BAY -- Congress has passed an appropriations bill that
   would bring $1.39 million in federal funding for efforts to restore the
   Back Bay.
   Newport Beach's Rep. Chris Cox announced the funding in a Thursday
   letter to Newport Beach Mayor Gary Adams.
   "This funding is critical to our environment in Orange County," Cox
   said in a news release. "I am proud to see our priorities recognized by
   my colleagues in Congress." Both houses of Congress passed the Energy
   and Water Appropriations Act on Thursday, one of 13 such bills from the
   various federal departments.
   The House of Representatives passed the bill 399 to 29, with the Senate
   endorsing it on a 96-2 vote.
   Included in the massive bill, loaded with environmental projects from
   all over the country, were three items benefiting Newport Beach.
   The bill handed $23.7 billion in spending power to the Army Corps of
   Engineers, which is managing a $34-million dredging project, and other
   federal agencies.
   Cox was able to insert in the bill $600,000 for the engineering and
   design work for project in the Upper Newport Bay. To remove excess
   sediment from the bay, the Army Corps of Engineers plans to dredge
   2.1-million cubic yards of mud.
   Congress also approved $450,000 for a study on urban runoff
   alternatives for San Diego Creek, which drains into the bay, and
   $300,000 to preserve a disposal site for the muck four miles off
   Newport Pier.
   Local agencies hope to cover 35% of the cost of the project, a sum of
   $13 million in state park bond money from Proposition 12, which passed
   in March 2000. Under that scenario, the engineers would provide the
   remaining $21 million.
   Newport Beach Assistant City Manager Dave Kiff said the dredging
   project could fall victim to the federal government's recent spending
   focus on airport security, a $15-billion bailout of the airlines and
   other items related to the events of Sept. 11.
   "The federal government is going through a prioritization of what is
   important," he said. "The first thing is public safety. Further down
   the list are environmental restoration projects."
   Cox said the city need not worry.
   "The answer to that is 'no,"' Cox said. "Our budget significantly
   increased even before Sept. 11 for environmental initiatives. I think
   we will be in good shape in Newport."
   The bill is now headed to President Bush's desk. He has 10 days to sign
   the bill. If he takes no action, the bill automatically becomes law.
