http://educ.dot.gov/current.html

                               Current Program

   The Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), enacted on
   June 9, 1998, authorized up to $194.8 million for grants to establish
   and operate up to 33 University Transportation Centers (UTC) throughout
   the U.S. in FY 1998 - 2003. Ten of these centers, which are designated
   as Regional Centers, were selected by competition in 1999. The other 23
   UTCs are located at universities named in TEA-21. After a limited
   competition among the named universities in FY 2002, the program will
   comprise 26 centers. All UTCs are required to match federal funds
   dollar for dollar.

   TEA-21 established 13 new UTCs, and reauthorized 14 existing UTCs and
   six centers formerly known as University Research Institutes (URI)
   previously funded under the Intermodal Surface Transportation
   Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA). TEA-21 established education as one of
   the primary objectives of a university transportation center,
   institutionalized the use of strategic planning in university grant
   management, and reinforced the program's focus on multi-modal
   transportation.

   Click here to go to the VISION, MISSION and GOALS of the UTC program.

   The following documents offer detailed information on the requirements
   of the UTC program.
     * Instructions for Preparing a UTC Strategic Plan -- View Online
       Download This Document in WordPerfect Format
     * Baseline Measures for UTCs -- View Online
       Download This Document in WordPerfect Format
     * Reporting Requirements for UTCs -- View Online
       Download This Document in WordPerfect Format
     * General Provisions of Grants for UTCs -- View Online
       Download This Document in WordPerfect Format

   The UTC program is managed by the Office of Innovation, Research and
   Education, Research and Special Programs Administration, U.S.
   Department of Transportation.

     UTC Return     Office of Innovation, Research and Education Return
