http://www.chce.research.med.va.gov/queri/


   QUERI stands for Quality Enhancement Research Initiative, and is an
   effort to use health service research to improve the quality of care
   for VA patients, as well for non-VA patients. The Center for Health
   Care Evaluation has been selected as the coordinating center for the
   QUERI module on substance abuse. The Research Coordinator for the QUERI
   Substance Abuse Module is Dr. John W. Finney. The Clinical Coordinator
   of the QUERI SAM is Dr. Mark Willenbring of the Minneapolis VA Medical
   Center.

   Why is there a QUERI module focused on substance abuse?

   Three factors provide a compelling rationale for an effort to improve
   the quality of VA treatment for patients with substance use disorders:
   (1) the high prevalence and cost of substance abuse disorders in the VA
   and in the nation as a whole, (2) the increasing complexity of VA
   substance abuse patients' disorders and a concomitant decline in
   resources for treatment, and (3) a growing body of knowledge about
   effective substance abuse treatments and the development of
   evidence-based, clinical practice guidelines.

   What are the initial plans of the QUERI Substance Abuse Module at Palo
   Alto?

   The overall mission of the QUERI Substance Abuse Module (SAM) is to
   establish an evidence-based program to identify best practices for the
   treatment of substance use disorders, to disseminate information about
   best practices and implement changes in practice patterns that improve
   patients' symptoms and quality of life, to assess clinicians' reactions
   to guidelines and the forces that enhance or hinder their use, and then
   to develop a new round of research to improve practices.

   The SAM is focusing first on areas that offer the most promise for
   improving patients' outcomes without increasing VA health care costs.
   Important opportunities exist to improve both primary/medical care and
   specialized treatment of substance abuse disorders. Specific sets of
   high-risk and underserved patient subgroups who tend to experience
   little improvement or even deterioration under current systems of care
   also offer important intervention foci.

   To take advantage of these opportunities and to achieve the ultimate
   aim of improving substance abuse care, an essential enabling step is to
   develop a practical and cost-effective system to obtain standard
   information about the process of care, patients' symptoms and
   functioning at treatment intake, and patients' outcomes. In addition,
   new information and methods are needed to implement research-based
   efforts to improve the quality of substance abuse care. These
   considerations led to the SAM's six specific aims. The first two are
   enabling aims and the other four address specific content areas:
    1. Improve the current system for monitoring substance abuse patients'
       outcomes and care;
    2. Improve the information and methods needed to implement
       research-based efforts to enhance the quality of substance abuse
       care;
    3. Improve identification and management of patients with substance
       use disorders seen in primary care and other medical settings;
    4. Improve specialized substance abuse treatment practices;
    5. Improve treatment for patients with multiple comorbidities; and
    6. Improve treatment for high-risk or underserved substance abuse
       patient subgroups.


   Main Page
   Investigators
   Quality Enhancement Research Institute
   Program Evaluation and Research Center
   Health Services Research and Development
   Training Programs
   Publications and Reports
   News
   Links
   Evidence-based Clinical Practice Guidelines in Substance Use Disorders
   A survey of VA substance abuse treatment program leaders provides
   information on their familiarity with and attitudes toward
   evidence-based practices and existing practice guidelines, as well as
   their interest in and perceived barriers to implementing practice
   guidelines.

   Patients with Diabetes Use Automated Calls to Access Self-Care
   Education
   VA Diabetic Patients are more satisfied than are patients in a
   county-funded system.

   More CHCE News...

                  All content and graphics are ©2002 CHCE
                              Legal Information
