http://www.cstl.nist.gov/FY2000TAR/07_microelec.pdf

   0LFURHOHFWURQLFV The U.S. Industry & Trade Outlook '99 places the value
   of semiconductor shipments at nearly $200 billion, with metrology
   investments exceeding $3 billion. CSTL supports this industry by
   providing the necessary physical standards for process control, for
   parameters such as temperature and humidity. SRMs designed to
   standardize fabrication, as well as reliable kinetic and thermophysical
   property data to facilitate process modeling are critical to the
   semiconductor industry. Fast-paced development requires dramatically
   improved measurement tools to keep advanced microelectronic
   manufacturing competitive. CSTL contributes to the NIST National
   Semiconductor Metrology Program (NSMP). The Semiconductor Industry
   Association requested that the Department of Commerce form the NSMP in
   support of its National Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors. The NSMP
   is managed by the Office of Microelectronic Programs (OMP) of the NIST
   Electronics and Electrical Engineering Laboratory. The NSMP conducts,
   often with industrial collaborators, projects associated with chip
   lithography, interconnectivity, materials and bulk processes, and
   packaging. NSMP draws on a full range of NIST expertise in
   semiconductor metrology to meet the metrology needs of materials,
   equipment, instrument, and device manufacturers. Projects focus on
   mainstream silicon CMOS (complementary metal-oxide semiconductor)
   technology addressed by the National Technology Roadmap for
   Semiconductors. CSTL competencies in several areas contribute to
   metrology development needs in semiconductor manufacturing. Working
   with the OMP, CSTL develops, evaluates, and validates process
   measurement technologies important in semiconductor manufacturing.
   Several projects support advances in semiconductor metrology focused on
   specific manufacturing technologies where metrology issues must be
   resolved to realize goals set by the industry. Standards for Process
   Control Surface Temperature Measurements using RTP K.G. Kreider, C.W.
   Meyer, V. P. Scheuerman, W.C. Ausherman (836), D.P. DeWitt, and B.K.
   Tsai (PL) The goal of the CSTL work is to improve the accuracy of wafer
   surface temperature measurements, with emphasis in the area of rapid
   thermal processing (RTP) of semi-conductors. The semiconductor
   manufacturing industry requires improved process measurement accuracy
   of silicon wafer temperatures due to increasingly stringent dopant
   diffusion requirements critical to product quality and device
   performance. As a result,the industry has an uncertainty requirement of
   2 °C at 1000 °C for RTP for the future generation of semiconductor
   devices 61 Light pipe radiation thermometers (LPRTs) are non-
   Technology Transfer: contacting and the sensor of choice in RTP.
   Thermocouple instrumented wafers are used to NIST/CSTL cooperative
   project with calibrate LPRTs in-situ. NIST efforts are based on
   SEMATECH, University of Texas, and combinations of stable thin-film and
   Pt/Pd wire Sensarray, Inc. has included both the design, fabrication,
   testing, thermocouples (TCs). The use of thin-film TCs calibration, and
   delivery of two thin- (TFTCs) minimizes errors arising from much larger
   film calibration wafers. heat transfer effects present with other types
   of contact temperature sensors. This technique permits Thin-film wafers
   have been provided an expanded uncertainty of less that 1 °C when the
   to Applied Materials and Vortek wafer temperature is uniform to within
   10 °C. Industries for testing in commercial Additionally, the effect of
   the environment of LPRT RTP tools. response was investigated to improve
   calibration procedures. Previously, TFTCs were shown to be The NIST
   patent on the "Temperature useful up to 900 °C. Recently we found that
   by calibration wafer for rapid thermal processing using thin-film
   increasing the thickness of the underlying SiO2 layer thermocouple" was
   issued Mar. 14, from 310 nm to 690 nm, operating temperatures up to
   2000 and licensed to Watlow Gordon 1000 °C could be achieved with a
   standard uncertainty Inc. for commercial production. target of 0.4 °C.
   Future work includes design improvement to reduce the uncertainty in
   temperature measurement between 700 °C and 1000 °C. Standards for Low
   Concentration of Water Vapor in Gases J.T. Hodges, G.E. Scace, P.H.
   Huang, W.W. Miller (836), and D.C. Hovde (Southwest Sciences) Details
   provided in the Process Metrology section. Improving Precision of
   Humidity Measurements with Absorption Spectroscopy J.T. Hodges (836)
   Details provided in the Process Metrology section. Quantitative
   Measurements for Vacuum Process Control J.P. Looney, R.F. Berg (836),
   and D.S. Green (University of Maryland) The increasing volume and
   complexity of vacuum processing, Quantitative, real-time, in-situ most
   notably in the semiconductor industry, requires real-time measurement
   capability for monitoring and control of process gases, reaction
   products, semiconductor process-control and gaseous contaminants. Our
   previous work demonstrated combines expertise in optical that residual
   gas analyzers (RGAs) could be made diagnostics and flow calibration
   quantitative for in-situ monitoring of reaction products, but the
   techniques. ± 5% to 10% imprecision (from analyte generation in the
   ionizer) was too large for process control, as is variability among
   mass flow controllers. Optical techniques are promising for real-time
   monitoring, but realizing their potential requires a better
   understanding of the factors limiting their performance. Researchers in
   CSTL's Process Measurements Division began developing an advanced
   chemical process monitor based on cavity ring-down spectroscopy (CRDS)
   to quantify the HF generated in the thermal chemical vapor deposition
   (CVD) of tungsten metal films (WF6 in an H2-rich environment). Our
   approach is to establish compact, low-cost, and robust optical
   diagnostic hardware at NIST, then transition it to Prof. Gary Rubloff's
   CVD facility at the University of Maryland for process control trials.
   With CRDS, we expect to achieve the desired measurement precision, and
   hope to use it to improve other detection methods such as RGAs. 62
   Characterization of Semiconductor Surfaces Electron Microscopy to
   Measure Gate Dielectric Films on Silicon J.H.J. Scott (837) Ultrathin
   films of silicon dioxide (SiO2) and silicon oxynitride (SiOxNy) on
   silicon substrates are used widely in the semiconductor industry as
   gate dielectrics in CMOS transistors. As gate dielectric thickness
   requirements fall well below the 100 nm level, oxide fabrication tools
   must produce films with a thickness tolerance of less than 0.3 nm.
   Metrology tools with a precision of better than 0.1 nm are required. To
   evaluate high resolution TEM as a thickness measurement technique,
   blanket films of dielectric grown on silicon were obtained from
   SEMATECH. TEM samples were prepared in cross section by mechanical
   dimpling and ion milling, and high High resolution transmission
   resolution micrographs were acquired at 300 keV using a CCD electron
   micrograph (TEM) of single crytsal silicon beneath camera (see figure
   to right). Digital image processing was an ultrathin dielectric film
   used to calibrate the magnification (using the silicon substrate as an
   internal standard), identify the dielectric film boundaries, and
   extract the film thickness. New methods were developed for obtaining
   two-dimensional calibration information from a lattice image of the
   silicon substrate. The atomic plane spacings were measured with
   sub-pixel accuracy by locating peaks using a weighted center-of-mass
   algorithm (see figure to left), followed by a least- squares fit of
   lattice basis vectors. The film/substrate interface was located using
   integrated intensity profiles. Films nominally 2 nm thick were measured
   with an Crosses mark the recorded position of estimated uncertainty of
   each intensity peak. Weighted-centroid 0.2 nm. fitting allows atomic
   spacings to be determined with sub-pixel precision Thickness
   Measurements of SEMATECH Gate Dielectrics by GIXPS T. Jach and E.
   Landree (837) Standard methods of determining the thickness and
   composition of gate dielectric materials for CMOS devices on 4 silicon
   encounter difficulties when the total layer thickness is less than 100
   nm. A ) recent measurement by six techniques of nm silicon oxynitride
   samples circulated by 3 ess ( GIXR SEMATECH pointed to variations
   between GIXPS the total measured thickness on the order TEM (JHS)
   Thickn of 50%. TEM (SEMATECH) 2 ARXPS SIMS A new method of grazing
   incidence X-ray SE (CR)* photoelectron spectroscopy (GIXPS), as TEM
   (DM) GIXR/SE (SOPRA)* developed at the NIST synchrotron 1 radiation
   beamline X-24A at Brookhaven 23 -18 -25 -06 -07 12 -14 National
   Laboratory, is highly suitable for 02- 03- 0802 analyzing the complex
   heterogeneous 50802 0803 0803 50803 805 80508 80 805 805 80508 80
   layers in the gate dielectric materials. The X-ray photoemission
   provides chemical Samples analysis of the elements present in the
   layers, and the behavior of the X-ray fields at the grazing incidence
   provide thickness information. 63 Seven samples from SEMATECH that had
   been measured by other techniques with significant variations in
   results were measured and analyzed using GIXPS. Analysis of the data
   shows thicknesses that lie near the middle of the spread determined by
   the other methods. We also performed analyses to estimate the variation
   in results expected due to inaccuracies of the published physical
   parameters that go into fitting the data. GIXPS fits of certain samples
   which had resisted interpretation by methods such as ellipsometry,
   angle-resolved X-ray photo-emission spectroscopy, and X-ray
   reflectivity indicate the formation of an unexpected surface nitride
   layer. The accuracy of the results will be tested by varying some of
   the parameters (X-ray energy, composition) in a controlled manner.
   Since, there is general correlation in the thickness measurements among
   different methods the reasons for discrepancies should be discernable.
   Fabrication and Electron Microprobe Characterization of
   Barium-Strontium-Titanate Films R.B. Marinenko, J. Armstrong (837),
   D.L. Kaiser, J.J. Ritter, P.K. Schenck, C. Bouldin, J.E. Blendell, and
   I. Levin (MSEL) Details provided in the Nanotechnology section. Ultra
   Shallow Depth Profiling of Dopants with ToF-SIMS A.J. Fahey and S.V.
   Roberson (837) Details provided in the Nanotechnology section. Kinetic
   Instabilities Due to Step-Edge Barriers on Plasma-Etched GaAs. S.W.
   Robey (837) Surface morphology development during non-equilibrium
   processes, such as thin film growth or etching, is the result
   Understanding of the complex of a complex interplay between a number of
   dynamic surface dynamics that processes, including surface diffusion,
   desorption, and gas determine surface morphology phase diffusion.
   Several techniques (photoelectron (on an ~ 10 nm to 1000 nm
   spectroscopy, reflection high energy electron diffraction, length
   scale) during plasma etching of semiconductor etc.) are employed in
   tandem to study plasma etching, with surfaces is an important aspect
   the bulk of the effort focused on analysis of data from of
   semiconductor processing. atomic force microscopy (AFM). Analysis of
   time and Achieving a desired spatial correlation functions and higher
   order moments of morphology, over pertinent the statistical
   distribution for the surface height provides length scales, is often a
   key clues to the dominant surface dynamics and the length factor
   determining success or scales over which they are important. The data
   are failure in the development of a compared with the results of
   continuum models or Monte- surface process. Carlo simulations for the
   surface dynamic processes. Above 600 K, the surface morphology displays
   a gradually decreasing anisotropy, with the surface anisotropy
   disappearing by about 700 K. Work to date has focused on the kinetic
   The instability below 600 K is most likely roughening of the GaAs (001)
   surface during H associated with the existence of additional barriers 2
   and CH4/H2 plasma etching as a function of time, surface temperature,
   and to surface diffusion at step edges, Ehrlich- gas composition, to
   identify dominant Schwoebel (ES) barriers. An interesting feature is
   physical processes controlling the surface that the transition
   temperature occurs in the range morphology and establish connections
   where it is expected that desorption of surface between surface
   morphology and specific hydrogen would become important, suggesting a
   microscopic surface processes. For length potential link between the
   appearance of a step scales below 50 nm to 100 nm (depending edge
   barrier and surface hydrogen. Future work on substrate temperature),
   the surface will examine the detailed temperature and time morphology
   is dominated by diffusion dependent behavior with the goal of
   identifying dynamics. For larger length scales, there is a crossover
   and desorption/etching effects whether the instability is in fact due
   to step-edge dominate. barriers, refining the estimate for this
   barrier, and identifying the potential role of hydrogen. 64 Standards
   for Ion-Implantation in the Production of Semiconductor Wafers R.R.
   Greenberg, R.M. Lindstrom (839), and D.S. Simons (837) Ion implantation
   is a key technology for the semiconductor The SEMATECH Analytical
   industry, with spatial-concentration profiles characterized Managers'
   Working Group typically by secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), a
   identified the development of the technique that requires standards for
   calibration. The Arsenic in Silicon SRM as one of their top priorities
   for implants in variability among results for recent interlaboratory
   silicon. comparisons has demonstrated a real need within the industry
   for these standards. An accuracy-based standard would permit the
   transfer of technology from one manufacturing site to another, and
   would allow a more useful comparison of experimental data with
   theoretical process models. A CSTL team with scientists from two
   divisions produced a new silicon wafer SRM that has been certified for
   total dose of implanted 75As per unit area, to meet the needs of the
   semiconductor industry. Additional information about the concentration
   of As atoms as a function of depth below the surface was provided by
   SIMS. The arsenic content was certified using instrumental neutron
   activation analysis (INAA) as a primary method. Since variability of
   SIMS measurements can be kept to within a few percent when the
   measurement process is carefully controlled, the relative (expanded)
   uncertainty for the arsenic S SR RM M 22113344,, A Arrsseenniicc iinn S
   Siilliiccoonn certification in the SRM was targeted at ÃÈÃRQÃ
   Completion of SRM 2134 complements SRM a relative basis. To achieve
   this level of 2137, Boron in Silicon, which was released in 1998. These
   SRMs are used by the accuracy, and to document the actual expanded
   semiconductor industry to underpin critical measurement uncertainty,
   each individual dopant concentration and depth uncertainty source was
   explicitly evaluated. A measurements that are essential to total of 29
   individual uncertainty components successful device manufacturing. were
   evaluated, and the final relative expanded uncertainty achieved was
   0.38% for a total arsenic content of 90 ng/cm2. The largest individual
   source of measurement uncertainty was observed to be that of the amount
   of arsenic in the calibration solutions. 65 Models and Data for
   Semiconductor Processing Application of Process Models and Controllers
   to Semiconductor Processing R. W. Davis, J.E. Maslar, E.F. Moore (836),
   D.R. Burgess, Jr. (838), R.L. Axelbaum (Washington University), and
   S.H. Ehrman (University of Maryland) Process simulation has the
   potential to significantly enhance CSTL provides the necessary the
   design phase of process development so as to improve information and
   scientific both efficiency and quality. This is because computational
   infrastructure to enable the application of semiconductor power has
   evolved to the point where highly sophisticated process models and
   controllers models can be constructed for a variety of complex that are
   well-grounded in semiconductor processes. However, the increasing
   fundamental physical laws. complexity of these models implies a greater
   need for accurate fundamental thermochemical and kinetic data, which
   are not presently available. CSTLÌs approach is both to develop and use
   methods for reliably generating the data necessary for validation of
   process modeling. The reliability, quality, and utility of the
   generated data must also be demonstrated to the user community.
   Consequently, the development of process models of wide applicability
   is essential, as is model validation carried out in reference reactors
   prototypical of industrial processing equipment. Gas phase formation of
   particles is a significant source of microcontamination in CVD
   reactors. Models predicting particle nucleation, growth, and evolution
   have been developed and incorporated in a CVD reactor model for
   polysilicon deposition from silane. Particle scattering intensities
   were measured experimentally, and these intensity profiles were
   compared with those generated numerically by the semi-empirical NIST
   microcontamination model. The NIST model contains two empirical
   parameters related to thermophoretic force and condensational sticking
   coefficient. With these parameters properly chosen, the numerical
   versus experimental comparisons are excellent, as shown in the figure.
   A new web site has been established to disseminate this information in
   a public forum. Data related to the bond dissociation energies obtained
   during the decomposition of fluorinated ethanes, as well as
   decomposition rates for organometallic CVD precursors, will be part of
   the database compilation. Thermophysical Properties of Gases used in
   Semiconductor Processing J.J. Hurly, K.A. Gillis, and M.R. Moldover
   (836) Mass flow controllers (MFCs) are CSTL provides improved numerous
   and ubiquitous in standards and data for mass flow semiconductor
   manufacturing. A controllers including improvement major use of MFCs is
   to control in low-range gas flow standards reactant feeds to most gas
   phase and provision of transport processes where accuracies in property
   data for chemically their concentration is critical to reactive process
   gases. success. The semiconductor industry requires high-accuracy data
   for modeling CVD (chemical vapor deposition) processes and for
   calibration of MFCs (mass flow controllers). Many process gases used in
   wafer processing are toxic, 66 corrosive, and/or pyrophoric. MFCs are
   often calibrated with benign "surrogate" gases (e.g. N2, CF4, SF6, or
   C2F6) but are used to deliver process gases (e.g. Cl2, HBr, BCl3, WF6).
   Adjustments of MFC response to account for the differences between the
   non-reactive and reactive gases can be accomplished when the
   thermophysical properties of both are known with sufficient accuracy.
   The thermophysical property data for reactive process gases are sparse
   and rarely accurate. Accurate thermophysical property data are also
   required to model the gas streams that are used in CVD processes. (For
   example, models are needed for the velocity, temperature, and
   concentration profiles in the vicinity of a hot susceptor.) NIST is
   using acoustic techniques to measure the thermophysical properties of
   the process gases, the "surrogate" gases, and binary mixtures of
   process and carrier gases. For example, the speed of sound in (CH3)3Ga
   (a pyrophoric organo-metallic) and NF3 (an aggressive oxidizer) was
   measured in a specially designed facility at NIST. These two gases were
   given high priority by the SEMATECH MFC Working Group. The figure to
   the left displays speed-of-sound data for (CH A new NIST database is
   3)3Ga (trimethlygalllium). Typically, available that provides the data
   range from below the the heat capacity, boiling temperature to 200 °C
   thermal conductivity, viscosity, and the virial and from 25 kPa to 1500
   kPa coefficients for the virial or 80% of the vapor pressure. equation
   of state The acoustic data are analyzed to determine the ideal-gas heat
   providing the pressure- capacity and the equation of state with
   uncertainties of density-temperature approximately ± 0.1%. Model pair
   potentials are also derived from relation for the process the data.
   These models are used to reliably extrapolate the gases. equations of
   state to temperatures above 1000 K and to estimate the transport
   properties. Measurements and Models for Plasma Processing M. Sobolewski
   and K. Steffens (836), J. Olthoff, Y. Wang, L. Christophorou, A.
   Goyette (EEEL), and E. Benck (PL) Advanced chemical and electrical
   measurement methods and models are needed to characterize plasma
   etching Model-based process design and and deposition processes
   important to the semiconductor control are important needs industry,
   enabling continued progress in process identified in the National
   optimization, process control, and model-based reactor Technology
   Roadmap for design. Semiconductors. CSTL's Process Measurements
   Division, in collaboration with researchers from EEEL and PL, have made
   use of reference reactors as a testbed for validating models and
   testing new measurement techniques. The reactors, known as Gaseous
   Electronics Conference Radio-Frequency Reference Cells (GEC Reference
   Cells), provide a well-defined basis for comparison of measurements
   between laboratories. The cells are equipped with a wide variety of
   plasma diagnostic tools, which measure the chemical, physical, and
   electrical properties of plasmas. Information provided by the set of
   diagnostics allows testing of models. Also, sensors designed for
   manufacturing environments can be installed on the cells and compared
   with diagnostic results. 67 Work continues on the development of
   sensors for real-time monitoring of ion current and ion energy in
   plasma reactors. These sensors are based on rf electrical measurements,
   which are interpreted using models for the electrical properties of
   plasma sheaths. This year, a two-sheath model was developed which
   allows the ion energies at both the powered and grounded electrodes to
   be monitored simultaneously. The model was validated by comparison to
   measurements of sheath voltages at both electrodes and ion energy
   distributions at the grounded electrode. We continue to investigate 2-D
   species densities Recent measurements have in the GEC characterized the
   effect of varying Reference Cell using 2-D planar laser-induced
   electrode gap on CF2 uniformity and density. Present investigations
   focus fluorescence (PLIF) imaging. In these studies, the on the effect
   of increased plasma concentration of CF2 in fluorocarbon etching and
   power and the presence of a silicon chamber-cleaning plasmas is
   monitored as a marker wafer on the spatially-resolved CF2 of uniformity
   and chemistry for validation of 2-D density. plasma models. 68
