http://www.nrc.gov/insp-gen.html

   Skip Navigation

NRC Seal
         Site Help | Site Index | Contact Us     __________   Submit    Advanced
         Search

   U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission

        Home Who We Are What We Do Nuclear Reactors Nuclear Materials
        Radioactive Waste Public Involvement Electronic Reading Room

                             Home > Inspector General

   Inspector General

                                   [OIG Hotline]

        The American people expect excellence and accountability from their
        government. Toward that end, the U.S. Congress passed the Inspector
      General (IG) Act of 1978 to ensure integrity and efficiency within the
                       Federal government and its programs.

       In accordance with the 1988 amendment to the Act, the NRC's Office of
       the Inspector General (OIG) was established on April 15, 1989, as an
        independent and objective unit to conduct and supervise audits, and
       conduct investigations relating to NRC's programs and operations. The
        purpose of OIG's audits and investigations is to prevent and detect
           fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement, and promote economy,
         efficiency, and effectiveness in NRC programs and operations. In
       addition, OIG reviews existing and proposed regulations, legislation
       and directives, and provides comments, as appropriate, regarding any
                               significant concerns.

       The IG serves under the general supervision of the NRC Chairman, but
      operates with personnel, contracting, and budget authority independent
       of that of the NRC. The OIG keeps the Chairman and the Congress fully
       and currently informed about problems, recommends corrective actions,
             and monitors NRC's progress in implementing such actions.

          The NRC's Office of the Inspector General has the following key
                             elements and activities:
        * OIG Hotline - how to report suspected fraud, waste, and abuse
        * Audit Program - description of OIG's audit program
        * Investigation Program - description of OIG's investigation program
        * NRC Management Challenges - an OIG developed list of the most
          serious management challenges facing the NRC
        * OIG Planning Documents - strategic pan, annual plan, performance
          plan, performance report
        * OIG Publications - publications providing guidance to NRC employees
          on fraud, waste, and abuse, semi-annual report to Congress, and
          fraud bulletin
        * Governing Legislation - summaries and full text of key laws that
          govern OIG operations
        * Employment with OIG - current vacancies in the Office of the
          Inspector General

        See also the following document collection related to the inspector
                                 general program:
        * OIG Reports - audit, special evaluation and investigative event
          reports

       For more information about OIG's leadership, organizational structure
       and major programs, see OIG Organization. For OIG's business address,
                    telephone and fax numbers, see Contact OIG.

         For more information about Inspectors General within the Federal
                       government, visit the IGNet [EXIT] .

      To review the current inventory of OIG commercial activities developed
       in accordance with the FAIR Act of 1998, see the Fair Act Inventories
                                       List.
