http://t8web.lanl.gov/gpmem.html

                             T-8: Group Members

  General Information

   The T-8 secretary's office phone number is (505) 667 5336. Our
   preferred fax number is (505) 665 3700.

   In addition to the people listed below, members of T-8 often work in
   close collaboration with people from other groups in Theoretical
   Division as well as groups from other divisions at LANL. In particular,
   we have common research programs with members of T-16 (Nuclear
   Physics), T-6 (Theoretical Astrophysics), T-7 (Mathematical Modeling
   and Analysis), T-10 (Theoretical Biology and Biophysics), T-11
   (Condensed Matter and Statistical Physics), CNLS (Center for Nonlinear
   Studies), ACL (Advanced Computing Laboratory), LANSCE-1 (Accelerator
   Physics and Engineering), the groups XHM and XNH of the Applied
   Theoretical and Computational Physics Division (X), and CIC-19
   (Scientific Computing).

   A short description of the research activity of the group is available
   on the General Information page.

  Group Members

   The LDAP server provides a list of everybody associated with T-8.

   The links here are to the home pages for people who have one, and to
   the LDAP database for others. If you get an error message from the LDAP
   server not accepting connections, you can get some information from
   LANL PH server, or by fingering lanl.gov.

  Staff Members/Post-Docs/Long term visitors
          Tanmoy Bhattacharya (Staff Member)
          Andrew Chamblin (Postdoc)
          Frederick M. Cooper (Staff Member)
          Csaba Csaki (Oppenheimer Fellow; on leave)
          Josh Erlich (Postdoc)
          Rajan Gupta (Staff Member)
          Salman Habib (Staff Member)
          Katrin Heitmann (Postdoc)
          Kurt Jacobs (Postdoc)
          Weonjong Lee (LTSM; on leave)
          Emil Mottola (Staff Member)
          Gouranga C. Nayak (Postdoc)
          Michael M. Nieto (Staff Member)
          Van M. Savage (Postdoc)
          Daniel Steck (Postdoc)
          Bala Sundaram (Affiliate)
          John Terning (LTSM)
          Luis Teodoro (Postdoc)
          Shang-Yung Wang (Postdoc)
          Geoffrey B. West (Lab Fellow)

  Students
          Shohini Ghose (UNM)
          Benjamin D. Greenbaum (Columbia)
          Asa S. Hopkins (GRA)

  Secretarial Staff
          Stacie A. Bird (Secretary)

   Back to T-8 home page.


    Salman Habib / LANL / habib@lanl.gov / revised Sep '01

   Valid HTML 4.0!

   Disclaimer
