http://clear.search.gov/notes/2001-08-24.txt

   Clearinghouse Partnership Meeting Notes August 24, 2001 Department of
   Labor, Washington D.C. Notes submitted by Marcia Christian There were
   about 30 attendees. The major agenda topics and presenters in this
   meeting were: DisAbilityDirect.Gov (Peter Gallager, Development
   Infostructure) E-Government Legislation Prospects (Patrice McDermott,
   OMBWatch and David McMillen, House Government Reform Committee)
   Superintendent of Documents Government Information Access Programs and
   e-government (Fran Buckley, Superintendent of Documents) Federal
   agencies directory project (John Shuler, University of Illinois-Chicago
   Toward a Services Infrastructure (Steve Holbrook, IBM) Web-Clarity
   (Paul Nixon, Sea Change Corporation) Microsoft MS FindIt and
   GILS-compliance (Margie Reynolds, Microsoft) Freeware/Toolkits (Bill
   Miller and Eliot Christian, USGS) Technical Presentation:
   DisAbilityDirect.Gov Dick Griffin, Dept. of Labor, has responsibility
   for developing electronic access to government information which is
   helpful to disabled Americans. He introduced Peter Gallager to explain
   DisAbilityDirect, a multi-agency, multi-government collaboration in
   support of President Bush's New Freedom Initiative. DisabilityDirect is
   based on XML standards, uses a distributed management model, and a
   hierarchical authorization model. Its geographic content is driven by
   zip code but Z39.50 is in their plans. Subject matter on disabilities
   is provided by federal, state, local and non-government partners.
   Potentially publishable data is organized on a private, SSL secured
   portal and metadata is generated. This is used as a maintenance
   environment which feeds into a public site which will be on-line in a
   few days. ZOPE is used as the application server and databases are in
   SQL format. E-Government Legislation Prospects Patrice McDermott is a
   senior policy analyst at OMBWatch, a public interest non-profit
   organization promoting government accountability and public input to
   policy making. She specializes in government information and has
   recently been working with Sen. Joe Lieberman's staff on the
   E-Government Act of 2001 (Senate Bill 803) which was introduced on May
   1. She has been especially involved with section 215, Accessibility,
   Usability and Preservation of Government Information. Ms McDermott is
   generally supportive of the bill's attempt to ensure permanent public
   access to government information which is maintained in a responsible
   manner. But she worries that the requirements of the bill may be judged
   as onerous by the agencies. Levels of information classification and
   timetables need to be based on reasonable expectations. She also
   believes that public input should be built into the CIO Council's
   structure in order to ensure accountability. The bill would be
   strengthened if it could be tied to existing statutes and if it had an
   overall vision that meshed the CIO Council, funding levels and section
   215. Ms. McDermott says that Senator Lieberman's staff is open to
   discussions and suggested language for the bill. She invited comments
   and said OMBWatch.org will provide on-going information about the bill.
   David McMillen works for Rep. Henry Waxman, ranking Democrat from
   California, and has an appreciation for data maintenance stemming from
   his Bureau of the Census background. Mr. McMillen gave insights on why
   the Senate seems to have trouble integrating the current management of
   government information dissemination and proposed legislation. He noted
   that debate over circular A130 was extremely partisan in the 1990's.
   Mr. McMillen discussed Senate Bill 803 as a tremendous opportunity.
   Senators Lieberman and Daschle are both supportive but staffing level
   doesn't reflect commitment to move forward in this session.
   E-government security continues to be a major blocking point in gaining
   Republican support, especially with Senator Thompson. Mr. McMillen
   spoke on behalf of embracing standards which would allow
   interoperability at state and federal levels, e.g. cataloging
   standards. Right now, e-government issues and intergovernmental
   relations are addressed by separate staffs in the House. Politically
   contentious items to be resolved include; existence of and placement of
   a federal CIO, number of advisory boards, funding levels and the role
   of the Government Printing Office (GPO). Superintendent of Documents
   Government Information Access Programs Fran Buckley gave an overview of
   how the Government Printing Office (GPO), has been involved with
   electronic government information. As Superintendent of Documents, he
   has the mandate to collect government publications across all agencies,
   index them and make them publicly available via 1300 depository
   libraries. Responsibilities have changed dramatically since their 1895
   scope. The recent trend of agencies to migrate from publishing in print
   form to electronic posting has made it harder to generate a
   comprehensive collection of government publications. Electronic
   collection is now in place to capture agencies' on-line publications.
   GPO points to 1000's of web sites within agencies. In some cases GPO
   works out individual agency agreements about accessing fee-based sites
   or acquiring source files if agency support is no longer available. In
   addition, GPO oversees electronic publishing of Legislative records,
   some Executive branch records and some Judicial branch records. By
   following national standards for cataloguing and bibliography GPO is
   able to pass information through to the Depository Library staff. These
   librarians provide public access services which cross the "digital
   divide" and the technical literacy gap. And librarian interaction with
   the public provides a feedback mechanism from every locality in the
   country. Mr. Buckley would welcome agency help in electronic publishing
   by their prior identification of documents, using standard metadata
   formats. Agencies responsibilities might be reinforced with legislation
   that documents the roles assigned for managing, distributing and
   preserving government information. He acknowledged that electronic data
   does not yet have the degree of reliability available from print.
   Federal Agencies Directory project update John Shuler (University of
   Illinois-Chicago) has been working with six librarians on a project to
   create a definitive map of U.S. federal agencies. The group is
   verifying and standardizing the agencies' basic descriptive data and
   contact information. They are also researching how parts of the
   agencies relate to each other and how agencies' printed descriptions
   relate to their web presence. John reports that they are making
   progress but find wide discrepancy in the quantity and quality of
   information immediately available. Their work has been significantly
   impacted by the recent change of administration and by the fact that
   web pages are replaced frequently. Six months from now the project
   members expect to have documented thirteen cabinet level offices and
   the agencies under them down to the fourth level. Step two of their
   project will hopefully be funded by a grant organization. That step
   will involve determining ways to make their catalogue compatible with
   standards based software. One goal is to have data which will be able
   to integrate the federal government into a UDDI test bed. Toward a
   "Services Infrastructure" Steve Holbrook (IBM) presented an
   enthusiastic introduction to the next wave of web integration on the
   horizon. He said that XML will do for the Internet what calculus did
   for mathematics; allow it to deal with the dynamic dimension of
   information. The next round of industry standards will include SOAP,
   WSDL and UDDI. IBM, Microsoft, Oracle and other major vendors have
   agreed to cooperate on standards and compete on innovations. The
   Internet will expand beyond the person-to-person model into a
   company-to-company or application-to- application model. Web services
   will enable a major evolutionary step in Internet communications. The
   slides from Mr. Holbrook's presentation are available at
   /clear.search.gov/holbrook.ppt> or /clear.search.gov/holbrook.pdf>
   WebClarity Paul Nixon (Sea Change Corporation) described WebClarity, a
   standards-based search and retrieval tool for "search portals". The
   software is written in Java to be platform independent plugged into a
   pre-existing web site. It searches multiple interfaces and multiple
   databases simultaneously. Information provided is live, not dependent
   solely on web crawling. Regardless of what formats the original
   database being searched is in, the user is presented with consistent
   result displays. WebClarity complies with search and retrieval
   standards such as NISO Z39.50, the BATH profile, GILS and Geospatial
   metadata. It sells for $15,000 (including installation, training, one
   year maintenance, and product customization) and a free demo is
   available at /www.web-clarity.com>. Microsoft MSFindIt and GILS
   compliance Margie Reynolds (Microsoft) explained that MSFindIt is
   freeware based on MS Site Server and used by a number of state
   governments. Although MSFindit will not be supported by Microsoft in
   the future, the GILS interface that the states require is being
   migrated into MS SharePoint Portal Server. Also, Microsoft recognizes
   that agencies will need help in deciding how they might use SOAP, etc.
   Freeware/Toolkits Bill Miller (USGS) gave a synopsis of the Advanced
   Search Framework (ASF) software that is freely available to all. It is
   a reference implementation based on open standards. Initially developed
   between 1996-1998, ASF has been under revision since spring 2000. The
   basic server is Apache and a spatial database manager has been added.
   Bill is aware of others who are building a classifier module and it is
   possible that the ASF will migrate into a UDDI environment. Eliot
   Christian presented information about software developed by Dave
   Vieglais (University of Kansas). Mr. Vieglais has made available a tool
   called ZX which makes Z39.50 available to a Microsoft environment. It
   is a protocol handler that provides low level integration and
   search/scan capability. This is primarily done through XML so that
   results can be customized using XML Stylesheet Language (XSL). Mr.
   Viaglas works within the geospatial and biological diversity community.
   The ZX software can be found at /tsadev.speciesanalyst.net/download>.
   Dick Griffin made a few closing remarks and the meeting adjourned ar
   12:30.
