http://buffalo.fbi.gov/contact/fo/bffo/ahearn.htm


           Peter J. Ahearn
       Special Agent in Charge
              FBI Seal
   Federal Bureau of Investigation
          Buffalo, New York

                                  Photo of Peter J. Ahearn

   Peter J. Ahearn, Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Federal Bureau of
   Investigation's (FBI), Buffalo, New York, Division, was born on
   December 19, 1954, in Alexandria, Virginia. He graduated from Rutgers
   University in 1976 with a degree in Business Administration and
   Accounting, and entered on duty as a Special Agent with the FBI in July
   1979.

   The Bureau made the Pittsburgh Division his first assignment; there he
   investigated White Collar and Organized Crime. In 1984, Ahearn
   transferred to the Newark, New Jersey, Division to investigate
   Organized Crime and International Drug Trafficking.

   In June 1988, the Bureau promoted Ahearn to Supervisor of the Newark,
   New Jersey, Division's Organized Crime/Drug Program, where he remained
   until his transfer to FBI Headquarters in May 1991. As a Supervisor in
   Newark, Ahearn's responsibilities included the administrative,
   investigative, and management oversight of more than 1,200 cases
   involving the LaCosa Nostra (LCN), Russian/Eastern European/Eurasian
   Criminal Enterprise Groups, and Asian Criminal Enterprise Groups. These
   investigations involved murder, extortion, kidnapping, drug
   trafficking, gambling, loansharking, money laundering, the application
   of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization (RICO) Statute,
   and other criminal activity on both a domestic and an international
   basis.

   In July 1996, Ahearn received an appointment as the Assistant Special
   Agent in Charge (ASAC) of the FBI's San Diego, California, Division,
   with program responsibility for the Organized Crime/Drug and Violent
   Crime/Major Offender investigative programs. A primary responsibility
   included coordinating the FBI's participation in a multi-agency
   Southwest Border Initiative relative to the Arellano-Felix Drug
   Trafficking Organization.

   On July 20, 1998, the Bureau promoted Ahearn to the Senior Executive
   Service (SES) and transferred him to Washington, D.C., as the Deputy
   Chief of Intelligence for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).

   In March 2001, the Bureau appointed Ahearn to the position of Special
   Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Buffalo, New York, Division. The Buffalo
   Division has jurisdiction over the 17 counties of Western New York, and
   it works closely with its Canadian counterparts throughout Southern
   Ontario, Canada.

                              Buffalo Home Page
