http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/weekly_report.htm


   Click here to return to the Operations main page Click here to return
   to the Operations main page

        Travel Management Transportation Operations Freight Management ITS
   [top_ht.gif]


   Operations Core Business Unit Weekly Report
   Weekly Report
   April 18, 2001

   Key Agency Announcements
     * During the week of May 7-13, the Operations Core Business Unit will
       participate in the "Public Service Recognition Week."  Part of
       Operation’s display on the Mall in Washington, D.C. will be about
       511, the three-digit traveler information number.
     * The report on FHWA's series of customer satisfaction surveys is now
       featured on the front page of AASHTO's website.  It has already
       been featured on the websites of ITE and ITS America.
     * With the completion of the review of the draft of the new Access
       Management Manual by the TRB Access Management Committee, the
       Office of Travel Management has initiated through TRB to the
       University of South Florida's Center for Urban Transportation
       Research the task to complete the manual update and prepare it for
       printing and distribution.  Anticipated publication date is January
       2002.  State and local transportation agencies will use this
       updated manual to make judgements regarding access points along all
       kinds of roadways.
     * The Office of Travel Management has completed the drafting of six
       case studies of regions (greater New York City, Phoenix, San
       Francisco Bay Area, Vancouver BC, Southern California, and Houston)
       in which unique cooperative efforts are underway in support of
       transportation system implementation and operation.  The case
       studies form the foundation of an Executive Guide, now in
       development, which will assist agencies interested in forming such
       innovative cooperative relationships.  The studies highlight the
       benefits realized from these cooperative relationships, and
       practices that have assisted the agencies in organizing and
       sustaining the relationships.  The Executive Guide is expected to
       be available by October 2001.
     * May 3 set for videoconference to review Revised FHWA Program
       Guidance on HOV Lanes. The specific guidance to be discussed is the
       revised version dated Match 28, 2001of the FHWA program guidance on
       HOV lanes which supercedes the guidance dated April 30, 1999. The
       purpose of this videoconference is to review and offer the
       opportunity for Division and Resource Center staff to ask questions
       about the major changes that have been made to the program
       guidance. As part of the agenda, the appropriate technical and
       program specialists from the CBU and SBU Offices have been invited
       to answer any questions that the Divisions and Resource Centers may
       have.
     * To assist with facilitating the question and answer portion of the
       videoconference, the Office of Travel Management encourages you to
       submit any questions you may that pertain to the revised version of
       the program guidance on HOV lanes.  Questions sent to:
          + Jon.Obenberger@fhwa.dot.gov prior to the meeting will be
            distributed to the appropriate office to prepare for the
            videoconference.
     * Louisa Ward will provide information on FHWA's Strategic Work Zone
       Analysis Tools (SWAT) program at the April 18-19 Work Zone
       Roundtable in St. Louis, MO.  The Work Zone Roundtable is a group
       of Midwest States and their FHWA Division liaisons that get
       together to share information and techniques to improve the safety
       and operations of work zones in their States.  Attendees include
       representatives from Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri,
       Minnesota, Michigan, Nebraska, Ohio, and Wisconsin.
     * Louisa Ward will attend the May 9-12 International Conference on
       Roadway Work Zone Safety in St Louis, MO.  FHWA serves as one of
       the sponsors of this conference with American Road & Transportation
       Builders Association, the National Work Zone Safety Information
       Clearinghouse, the International Road Federation, and many others.
       The conference's approach to international roadway work zone safety
       is to bring together groups from many perspectives to discuss
       issues, concerns and solutions.

   April 29-May 1
     * Financing Freight Transportation Improvements Conference: Exploring
       future options… The Department of Transportation’s modal agencies
       to address how freight transportation improvements are financed.
       Discussions include:
          + Existing financing options from the federal, state and
          + local public and private sector,
          + Innovative financing approaches, and
          + Program and policy issues and options to finance freight
            transportation projects in the future.
     * The conference is sponsored by the Federal Highway Administration,
       Office of Freight     Management and Operations; Federal Railroad
       Administration; ENO Transportation Foundation; U.S. Coast Guard;
       Maritime Administration; and Federal Aviation Administration In
       Cooperation with: American Association of State Highway
       Transportation Officials.

   Office of Operations Technology Services

     * The April 26 National Associations Working Group for ITS will
       feature the following presentations: Freight Analysis Framework,
       ITS 10-Year Program Plan and Research Agenda, and Signal Retiming
       Video.  Now in its sixth year, the National Associations Working
       Group for ITS, in partnership with the U.S. Department of
       Transportation, is composed of national associations of state and
       local officials with a common interest in being informed and
       educated on the concepts, practices, and applications of ITS.


   Weekly Report
   February 1, 2001

   A. Key Agency News

   Office of Transportation Operations
   Office of Transportation Operations staff will attend American Traffic
   Safety Services Association’s (ATSSA) 31st Annual Convention and
   Traffic Expo. The Expo will held in the Broward County Convention
   Center in Fort Lauderdale, Florida from February 16 to 20. Office of
   Transportation Operations Staff who will attend include MUTCD team
   leader Ernie Huckaby who will give presentations on the recently
   released Millennium Edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
   Devices (MUTCD).

   Transportation Operations staff including Shelley Row, Alfonso Benet,
   George Schoene and Terry Anderson participated in the January 25 FEMA,
   the U.S. DOT and the FHWA Coordination Meeting. The focus of the
   meeting was an evaluation of the November 16, 2000 training exercise of
   the Evacuation Liaison Team (ELT) and the Evacuation Travel Demand
   Forecasting System (ETDFS). The follow-up discussion looked at "Where
   do we go from here?" with specific attention paid to proposed
   modifications to the model, 2001 ELT/ETDFS refresher training, and ELT
   expansion to other States. The final topic of discussion was planning
   for the upcoming National Hurricane Conference which will be in
   Washington, D.C. during the week of April 9, the one-day FHWA workshop
   (before or after National Conference), and the topics for FHWA workshop
   agenda.

   Office of Travel Management
   The IEEE Incident Management Working Group (IMWG) will meet in Panama
   City, Florida on February 21-23, 2001. The IMWG is working on Phase II
   of the ITS Incident Management Message Set standards involving traffic
   management, public safety and HAZMAT messages to send information among
   traffic management and various emergency management centers. The
   meeting will feature two tabletop exercises. The base standard IEEE
   1512-2000 "Common Incident Management Message Sets for Use by Emergency
   Management Centers" was approved last year.

   Office of Technology Services
   Upcoming publication to be available in early March. The ITS guidebook,
   "How Can We Work Together? A Guidebook to Smart Response through
   Coordinating Local Public Safety & Transportation, Communications &
   Technology" was written to show how Intelligent Transportation Systems
   (ITS) helps communities enhance public safety services. The guidebook
   was written in language understandable to both decision makers and the
   public safety community - police, fire, and emergency medical services.

   Intelligent Transportation Systems
   Joint Program Office
   Standards - Mike Schagrin

   Improved Standards Web Site: The ITS Standards Web site was redesigned
   to make navigation easier and enhanced with additional features. New
   features include a contacts database for deployers to obtain contact
   information for ITS projects across the nation and a list of
   "frequently asked questions" (FAQs). The new site is
   www.its-standards.net.

   ITS America completes report on rulemaking: An ITS America white paper
   entitled "Standards Rulemaking in a Time of Rapid Technology Change"
   has been completed and submitted to U.S. DOT. The report is the result
   of an ITS America workshop. Participants, including private and public
   sector ITS stakeholders and transportation professionals, explored the
   issue of ITS standards-related rulemaking in an era in which quickly
   changing technology challenges the normal rulemaking process time
   scale. The intent is to find ways for accelerating the adoption and
   implementation of ITS standards by the transportation community.

   Weekly Report
   January 4, 2001
   A. Key Agency News

   Office of Freight Management and Operations
   The press January 4, 2001 briefing held by the Office of Freight
   Management and Operations resulted in two articles in Transport Topics
   this week. One article was about the press briefing of last week and
   one on the NHS Connector release.

   Office of Transportation Operations
   Paul Pisano will moderate the January 16 session on Surface
   Transportation Weather Systems at the American Meteorological Society
   (AMS) Annual Meeting. During the AMS annual meeting, he will also
   present a paper describing the recently completed FHWA/National Weather
   Service Partnering Initiatives. As part of that session, Bill Brown,
   Washington DOT, will present a paper describing Washington State’s
   recently developed statewide road weather information system.

   Office of Travel Management
   Staff from the Operations Office of Travel Management will participate
   in a January 25 workshop sponsored by the I-95 Corridor Coalition and
   ITS America. This "Northeast 511 Workshop" will explore the efforts
   that the DOT, AASHTO, and ITS America have started to help deploy the
   511 nationwide traveler information telephone number. The workshop
   includes discussions about how traveler information telephone services
   have been deployed from Virginia to Maine, and the designs that these
   agencies have for converting to 511. The telephone service providers
   will also participate to share their perspective on 511 issues and
   their role in assisting transportation agencies that are deploying 511.
   Workshop participants will discuss and define the issues and best
   approaches to seamless deployment of 511 systems nationwide to provide
   improved transportation operations through better informed travelers.

   Last year, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) conducted surveys
   asking the American public about travel and transportation on the
   nation's roads. Citizens in urban and rural areas across the country
   were surveyed by telephone, and visitors to national parks and forests
   were interviewed during their visits to these recreational sites. The
   final report of findings from these surveys is expected to be released
   next month, providing important feedback to FHWA on public perception
   of how well its missions are being accomplished, and on where the
   public feels attention and resources should be focused. Preliminary
   findings were presented to the FHWA Annual Business Meeting in
   Indianapolis during the AASHTO annual meeting last month.

   Vince Pearce will participate in the "walk-through" review of the
   upcoming FHWA "Fundamentals of Systems Engineering for Transportation"
   course during the week of January 15th. This course provides the
   foundation of understanding systems engineering, which is increasingly
   important throughout transportation. Most transportation professionals,
   however, do not come from academic backgrounds that emphasized this
   area, so they typically must learn "on the job." On completing this
   course, the practitioner will have a greatly improved knowledge related
   to skills such as defining requirements for systems, planning for the
   operation of the system, and managing the system's configuration.

   Staff from the Operations Office of Travel Management will participate
   in a workshop on January 25, sponsored by the I-95 Corridor Coalition
   and ITS America. This "Northeast 511 Workshop" will explore the efforts
   that the DOT, AASHTO, and ITS America have started to help deploy the
   511 nationwide traveler information telephone number. The workshop
   includes discussions about how traveler information telephone services
   have been deployed from Virginia to Maine, and the designs that these
   agencies have for converting to 511. The telephone service providers
   will also participate to share their perspective on 511 issues and
   their role in assisting transportation agencies that are deploying 511.
   Workshop participants will discuss and define the issues and best
   approaches to seamless deployment of 511 systems nationwide to provide
   improved transportation operations through better informed travelers.


                    image line
   Federal Highway Administration Operations Unit
   DOT Logo U.S. Department of Transportation
   400 7th Street, S.W., HOP
   Washington, DC 20590
   Toll-Free "Help Line" (866)367-7487

    FHWA Home | Operations CBU Home
    Privacy & Disclaimer Statement

                                   spacer
                          Updated 16 October, 2001
