http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERG/NG019302.HTML

   commerce logo           U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

                                                           March 26,1993
                          W/OS015

   TO:    All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:     Transmittal Memorandum For Operations Manual Issuance 93-2

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   WSOM Chapter G-01, "Communications Program".

   2.    Summary:

   This is the first issuance of this chapter of the Operations Manual. It
   provides guidance regarding NWS activities in the design, management,
   and implementation of the telecommunications systems that comprise the
   Communications Program.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   Supersedes Weather Bureau Manual Chapter A-10, dated 3/1/65, in its
   entirety.


   Elbert W. Friday, Jr.
   Assistant Administrator
      for Weather Services

     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date    Org. Code        NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE   Part    Chap.
   3-26-93        W/OSO15              Operations Manual
              G         01

                           COMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Purpose

   2.   Overview

   3.    Applicability

   4.    Authority

   5.    Communications Program Objectives

   6.    Organizational Responsibilities

   7.    Communications Policy

       7.1     The Public
       7.2    State and Local Government Agencies
       7.3   Other Federal Agencies
       7.4    Commercial Users
       7.5    International Users

   8.    Coordination and Liaison

   9.    Communications Systems

       9.1     Automation of Field Operations and Services (AFOS)
       9.2    Facsimile Distribution Systems
       9.3    Radar Data Networks
       9.4    Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System for the
   1990's (AWIPS)
       9.5    Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS)
       9.6    NOAA Weather Wire Service (NWWS)
       9.7    NOAA Weather Radio (NWR)
       9.8    NOAA Family of Services (FOS)
       9.9    International Systems
     __________________________________________________________________

   1.     Purpose. This chapter establishes policy concerning the National
   Weather Service's (NWS) activity in the design, implementation, and
   management of the telecommunications systems that comprise the
   Communications Program.

   2.     Overview. The NWS mission includes the timely collection,
   processing, and dissemination of weather information to the public
   through the use of highly reliable, modern information processing and
   telecommunications systems. The Office of Systems Operations (OSO)
   provides staff assistance to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration (NOAA) Assistant Administrator for Weather Services for
   the management and control of these operational telecommunications
   systems.

   3.     Applicability. This chapter shall serve as guidance to the NWS
   Headquarters, regional headquarters, and all field installations. It is
   also applicable to the relationships which the NWS has with other
   government agencies, foreign countries, private industry, and
   individuals who are, directly or indirectly, users of the various
   systems.

   4.     Authority. The NWS has the statutory responsibility for
   providing a national meteorological service. This service consists of:

       a. reporting the weather and climate of the United States and its
   possessions;

       b. issuing forecasts and warnings of weather and flood conditions
   affecting safety, welfare, and economy; and

       c. distributing meteorological information in the interests of
   agriculture and commerce.

   5.     Communications Program Objectives. The Communications Program of
   the NWS has the following major objectives:

       a.     collecting raw data for use in the National Meteorological
   Center (NMC), National Centers, and local forecast offices;

       b.     distributing necessary information between NWS offices;

       c.     disseminating NWS data and products to the public and
   outside users;

       d.     interfacing, where appropriate, with other communications
   systems, both civil and military, domestic and foreign, for the mutual
   exchange of data; and

       e.     meeting U.S. responsibilities to the World Meteorological
   Organization (WMO) and International Civil Aviation Organization for
   international distribution of basic synoptic and operational weather
   data, including processed data.

   6.     Organizational Responsibilities. This section briefly describes
   the responsibilities of the NWS Headquarters, regional headquarters,
   and field offices.

   The OSO has responsibility for the overall management of NWS
   telecommunications programs, which include NWS-owned equipment and
   equipment and services provided by system contractors and
   telecommunications carriers. Within the OSO, the Telecommunications and
   Dissemination Branch (OS015) of the Systems Integration Division (OSO1)
   is responsible for the planning, acquisition, and management of all
   major data communications networks operated by the NWS. The Systems
   Operations Center (OS02) of the OSO is responsible for the operation of
   the National Weather Service Telecommunication Gateway (NWSTG), Systems
   Monitoring and Coordination Center, and Automated Surface Observing
   System (ASOS) Operations Maintenance Center (all located in Silver
   Spring, Maryland), and for providing real-time management and support
   to all centrally operated NWS networks.

   Each regional headquarters office is responsible for coordinating
   operational changes or installation problems with the field sites, and
   forwarding any systematic maintenance or user problems that cannot be
   resolved at the local or regional level to NWS Headquarters. Each
   regional headquarters is also responsible for acquiring and managing
   any specialized telecommunications facilities needed at local field
   offices.

   The NMC is responsible for acquiring and managing telecommunications
   facilities needed to support its internal operations, for example, the
   communications that connect NMC to the National Hurricane Center and
   the National Severe Storms Forecast Center

   In accordance with predetermined schedules and procedures, the NWS
   field offices are responsible for the daily operations involving data
   input to the various telecommunications systems.

   They are responsible for monitoring the quality control of the system
   and for reporting any system outages.

   The Office of Meteorology and the Office of Hydrology, in coordination
   with the regional headquarters, establish the policies regarding the
   format and content of data products and operational backup procedures.
   Any requests to add, delete, or change the official set of products
   transmitted on any NWS communication circuit shall be governed by the
   Systems Integration Division NWS Configuration Management Data Review
   Group (OS011) using the policies delineated within the appropriate WSOM
   chapter for that particular system.

   7.     Communications Policy. The mission of the NWS Communications
   Program is to provide the timely and dependable collection,
   transmission, and dissemination of weather products to all authorized
   user elements, including international users. This dictates the need
   for coordination of the design of telecommunications systems to ensure
   that specialized requirements are given due consideration.

   Communications policy is based on Federal laws, NOAA directives, U.S.
   agreements, and interagency memorandums of agreement which may apply
   between the NWS and other Federal agencies. The general policies for
   communications service to user groups are described below.

   7.1     The Public. The primary mission of the NWS is to provide timely
   preparation and delivery of weather forecasts and warnings to the
   public. In order to meet this mission requirement, the NWS operates
   some communications systems which provide information directly to the
   public [e.g., NOAA Weather Radio (NWR)] and operates other
   communications systems [e.g., NOAA Weather Wire Service (NWWS)] which
   deliver information to mass news disseminators (e.g., radio,
   television, and newspapers) who then relay the information to the
   public.

   7.2     State and Local Government Agencies. Because of their important
   role in serving their citizenry, state and local government agencies
   (especially emergency management agencies) have a need for weather
   information. Whenever a "special" communications service is provided to
   a state or local government agency, a formal agreement regarding the
   data exchange arrangement is required.

   7.3     Other Federal Agencies. Because of their special mission needs,
   various Federal agencies may have a need for weather information.
   Whenever a "special" communications service is provided to a Federal
   agency, a formal agreement regarding the data exchange arrangement is
   required.

   7.4     Commercial Users. The NWS policy regarding providing weather
   information to commercial organizations (i.e., private users) is to
   make information available on a "for fee" basis. The associated fees
   are based, generally, on the costs to the NWS to make the data
   available. It is NWS policy to make available to the private sector
   only those products that the NWS routinely produces.

   7.5     International Users. The NWS must provide for the requirements
   of this group in order to meet U.S. requirements for foreign weather
   data. Under WMO agreements, the exchange of data internationally is
   accomplished by global and interregional exchanges. The cost for this
   service is usually borne by the country in which the communications
   facility is located. Under bilateral arrangements, point-to-point
   communications links are established to meet the particular
   requirements of the countries concerned. Such arrangements usually
   provide for a reciprocal exchange of data. Each country usually bears
   the cost of installation and operation of its own equipment.

   8.     Coordination and Liaison. The OSO telecommunications staff must
   work closely with Weather Service Headquarters offices, NOAA
   organizational units, other Federal and local government agencies, and
   industry to fulfill its obligations. Liaison with the various divisions
   of the Office of Systems Development, the Office of Meteorology, the
   NMC, and the Office of Hydrology is maintained to aid the coordination
   of NWS programs. Contact is maintained with industry to obtain
   knowledge of new commercial equipment and techniques that can increase
   the capabilities of NWS telecommunications systems.

   There have been and will undoubtedly continue to be many cooperative
   programs with other Federal, state, and local governments. It is the
   responsibility of the telecommunications staff to advise NWS management
   whether proposed agreements are practicable and complete with respect
   to the telecommunications capabilities and resources available to the
   NWS.

   9.     Communications Systems. The Communications Program of the NWS
   supports the collection and distribution of weather information to the
   NWS, FAA, and DOD, and also provides for the dissemination of weather
   data and forecasts to external users and the public.

   9.1     Automation of Field Operations and Services (AFOS). AFOS is the
   primary internal data distribution network of the NWS. It is used to
   interconnect NWS field offices and to distribute centrally produced
   forecast products (graphics, grid point data, etc.) from the NMC to NWS
   field offices. All data forecasts generated at NWS field offices are
   also carried on this network and are available to all offices on the
   network. Any product originating anywhere in the system is available on
   the AFOS network and can be stored and displayed at any office. Major
   AFOS-equipped offices are provided with communications interfaces to
   NWS dissemination systems.

   The AFOS network consists of a nationwide packet data network which
   interconnects the AFOS data handling computers at over 200
   AFOS-equipped NWS offices. The network consists of four Regional
   Distribution Circuits (RDC) comprised of approximately 50 dedicated
   interstate telecommunications circuits which interconnect Weather
   Service Forecast Offices (WSFO) and National Centers. The RDCs operate
   at 4800/9600 bps in a full duplex mode. Each of the WSFOs provides
   coverage to Weather Service Offices (WSO) and River Forecast Centers in
   its area via dedicated State Distribution Circuits (SDC). In addition
   to SDC connections, smaller NWS offices, which do not have a full set
   of AFOS equipment, connect to AFOS WSFOs and WSOs by other dedicated
   point-to-point circuits referred to as "Remote Terminal to AFOS (RTA)
   links."

   The AFOS system is scheduled to be replaced in the late-1990's by the
   Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System for the 1990's (AWIPS).

   9.2     Facsimile Distribution Systems. The NWS operates several
   facsimile networks for the dissemination of graphical weather
   information to NWS offices, FAA offices, DOD offices, and a variety of
   other governmental and non-governmental users.

   The DIFAX system is a point-to-multipoint satellite broadcast system
   which distributes forecast guidance materials prepared by the NMC,
   along with analyses and selected observational data, to NWS, FAA, DOD,
   and other governmental offices. In addition, several foreign countries
   (Mexico, Canada, Bermuda, etc.) are served by the DIFAX data broadcast.
   The DIFAX broadcast is operated under contract by a commercial
   telecommunications vendor and currently serves over 300 government
   locations.

   The AKFAX system utilizes dedicated facilities to distribute NMC and
   locally generated weather graphic products to NWS, FAA, and DOD users
   throughout Alaska. The majority of the information is generated at the
   NMC, and is transmitted from the NWSTG to Anchorage, Alaska, via
   satellite. From Anchorage, the information is further distributed to
   NWS, FAA, and DOD offices throughout Alaska via terrestrial and
   satellite facilities.

   The HONOFAX system utilizes dedicated facilities to distribute NMC and
   locally prepared graphic products to NWS, FAA, and DOD users in Hawaii.
   Information is transmitted via satellite from the NWSTG to Honolulu,
   Hawaii, where it is further distributed via terrestrial circuits.

   The GOESFAX system distributes satellite imagery provided from the
   NESDIS to NWS WSFOs located throughout the United States. The GOES
   imagery products are distributed via a network of point-to-point
   landlines.

   9.3     Radar Data Networks. The NWS Radar Program currently
   encompasses radar observation stations comprised of network radars
   (WSR-57 and WSR-74S) and local warning radars (WSR-74C, WSR-74S, and WR
   100-S). Many of the NWS radars are equipped with a Radar Remote Weather
   Display System which provides dial-in access to digitized radar data.
   Information is transmitted via a dedicated network of multi-point and
   point-to-point circuits, supplemented by dial-up lines. The existing
   network of radars is being replaced by the NEXRAD (Next Generation
   Radar) system beginning in 1992 and extending through 1995 (estimated).

   The NEXRAD system is a network of Doppler radars (WSR-88D), with
   associated processing and display hardware and software which is used
   to detect, process, display, and distribute weather radar information
   to NWS, FAA. and DOD field offices.

   Each NEXRAD system will have three major system components: Radar Data
   Acquisition (RDA), Radar Product Generator (RPG), and Principle User
   Processor (PUP). It is expected that the NWS will have 116 RDAs and 116
   RPGs (plus access to 23 DOD RPGs), as well as approximately 148 PUPs.
   NWS offices will have access to all NWS and DOD NEXRAD sites via an
   integrated NEXRAD data network. Dissemination of NEXRAD data to the
   public will be via the NEXRAD Information Distribution Service (NIDS).
   NIDS is a commercial arrangement between the NWS and private vendors to
   provide (on a fee-per-site basis) NEXRAD data which are further
   disseminated to subscribers to each vendor's service.

   9.4     Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System for the 1990's
   (AWPS). The AWIPS and its associated data communications network will
   replace the AFOS system and network. AWIPS will be an advanced
   computer/telecommunications system to help forecasters integrate all
   sources of weather data at field offices. AWIPS will aid in the timely
   preparation and dissemination of warnings and forecasts. The current
   schedule calls for the AWIPS system/network to be deployed beginning in
   1998.

   9.5     Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS). The ASOS is a
   consolidated program of the NWS, FAA, and DOD to automate and
   standardize the collection and reporting of observed weather
   conditions.

   The NWS segment of the ASOS consists of approximately 250 ASOS sites.
   Each ASOS includes automated electronic sensor instruments, which will
   replace manually taken weather observations. All ASOS sites will
   interface with the AFOS (and later, AWIPS) system.

   9.6     NOAA Weather Wire Service (NWWS). The NWWS is a nationwide
   satellite broadcast system used for the dissemination of severe weather
   and flood warnings, forecasts, and other information to the mass news
   media and governmental public safety agencies for relay to the public.
   The satellite broadcast system is operated, under contract, by a
   commercial communications vendor. Information is transmitted via
   satellite uplinks at all WSFOs and National Centers and received at the
   contractor's Network Control Center in Mountain View, California, where
   it is Processed and rebroadcast to over 1300 external users.

   9.7     NOAA Weather Radio (NWR). A network of approximately 380 Very
   High Frequency/Frequency Modulation (VHF/FM) radio transmitter stations
   comprise the NWR system. These stations provide continuous weather,
   river, and marine information 24 hours a day and are regularly updated
   by the cognizant NWS office. A combination of commercial landlines,
   point-to-point microwave, and UHF radio are utilized to provide
   communications between the cognizant NWS office and the broadcast site.

   9.8     NOAA Family of Services (FOS). Since 1983, NWS has provided for
   external-user access to weather information through a collection of
   data services (called the FOS), which are accessible in the Washington,
   D.C., area. The individual data services may be obtained from the NWS
   upon payment of a one-time connection charge and an annual fee.
   Private-sector companies resell data as received and/or provide
   value-added services for specialized users based on information derived
   from the FOS. The FOS includes the following data services:

       a.     Public Product Service (PPS)--carries all public warnings
   and watches, and various hydrologic, agricultural, and miscellaneous
   forecasts and products;

       b.     Domestic Data Service (DDS)--carries basic observations and
   various aviation, marine, and miscellaneous products;

       c.     International Data Service (IDS)--carries worldwide surface
   and upper-air observations and other miscellaneous products;

       d.     Numerical Products Service (NPS)--carries analyses and
   forecasts derived from all of the NMC's models, plus forecasts prepared
   by the European Centre for Medium Range Forecasts:

       e.     Direct Connect Services (DCS)--carries the same information
   as the NPS but for users requiring error-controlled NPS data:

       f.     AFOS Graphics Service (AGS)--carries centrally produced
   vector graphic products from the NWS AFOS system;

       g.     Digital Facsimile Service (DIFAX)--carries products related
   to international aviation, agriculture, and other weather analyses and
   prognoses; and

       h.     Climate Analysis Center Climate Dial-up Service
   (CACCDUS)--provides climate data via dial-in access, with user fees
   assessed on a usage basis.

   9.9     International Systems. The Global Telecommunication System
   (GTS) is an international data exchange network sponsored by the WMO.
   The NMC has been designated by the WMO as a World Meteorological
   Center. The GTS is used to exchange weather information with
   meteorological forecasting National Centers in other nations (England,
   Japan, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, etc.). Data received at the
   Washington OSO Systems Operation Center via computer-to-computer
   high-speed channels are relayed to other Centers as required by
   international agreements. The GTS consists of a variety of terrestrial,
   satellite, and radio communication circuits.

   In addition to the GTS, a variety of telecommunications facilities are
   used to exchange meteorological information with other countries and
   regions via a mixture of point-to-point circuits (e.g., Nassau,
   Jamaica, etc.) and regional networks. Examples of regional networks are
   the Antilles Meteorological Network (ANMET) and the Central American
   Meteorological Network (CEMET).

   The World Area Forecast System (WAFS) Satellite Broadcast System (WSBS)
   is scheduled for implementation by the mid 1990's. The WSBS is a
   one-way satellite broadcast designed to provide timely and accurate
   aviation meteorological data to world aviation users, as well as
   serving as a conduit for meteorological data exchange between North and
   Central America.

   The telecommunications links include a variety of technologies
   (satellite, radio, landlines, etc.) operating at a variety of speeds
   from 75 baud up to 56 Kbps. The operating procedures are determined by
   the NWS with the concurrence of foreign correspondents, and conform to
   WMO standards and procedures.

   WSOM Issuance
   93-2    3-26-93
