http://www.ars-grin.gov/ars/NoPlains/FtCollins/nsslmain.html



                                 [usda.gif]

                       U.S. Department of Agriculture

                        Agricultural Research Service


             National Center for Genetic Resources Preservation


                                [nssl2_m.gif]

                                 1111 South Mason
                            Fort Collins, CO 80521-4500
                   Telephone:  970-495-3200;  Fax:  970-221-1427


                             Administration   Animals

                       Plant Preservation    Plant Research


                                   [anarule.gif]


      The National Center for Genetic Resources Preservation (NCGRP) is a
      USDA, ARS facility located on the Colorado State University campus in
      Fort Collins, Colorado.  The mission of NCGRP is to preserve the base
      collection of the National Plant Germplasm System and to conduct
      research to develop new technologies for preservation of seed and other
      propagules of plant genetic resources.

      Throughout the world, plant genetic diversity is being eroded as
      farmers in centers of diversity switch to hybrids and improved
      varieties.  Loss of germplasm, especially landrace varieties, will
      result in the loss of genes for high yield, disease and insect
      resistance, improved nutrition, and many other useful traits.  NCGRP
      preserves this genetic diversity from all over the world.


                                   [anarule.gif]


                           Annual Report and Statistics

                          Crop Science Registration Forms

                    GRIN (to search and request plant material)

                               Educational Materials

                             Seed Biology Researchers

                                       Links

                                   Publications

                                Storage Application


                                   [anarule.gif]

       USDA Privacy Policy  |  Nondiscrimination Statement  |  System Usage
                         Policy  |  Endorsement Disclaimer

      USDA, Agricultural Research Service, National Center for Genetic
      Resources Preservation is committed to making its web sites accessible
      to all USDA customers and employees.  All of the agency web sites are
      undergoing review and redesign as necessary to ensure that they meet or
      exceed the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of
      1973.

      Many of our web sites currently meet the Section 508 accessibility
      standards.  Furthermore, USDA-ARS, National Center for Genetic
      Resources Preservation continues to work on making all web sites
      accessible.  Thank you very much for your patience through this
      redesign process.  If you have any comments or suggestions for
      improvement, please contact the Web Master of this page.

      Contact Information:   nsslal@ars-grin.gov        telephone:
      970-495-3226
