http://reed.senate.gov/textonly.htm

   Jack Reed
   United States Senator from Rhode Island

   About Jack Reed
   Constituent Services
   News
   Legislative Information
   Press Area
   Speeches and Articles
   Rhode Island
   Visit Washington
   For Students

   Home
   Privacy Policy

   Welcome to my Senate home page.

   I encourage you to visit often as this web site will be updated
   regularly to keep you informed about Senate activities and upcoming
   events in both Washington, DC and Rhode Island.

   Thanks for visiting and please feel free to contact me with your
   questions and comments.

   To help you get the answer or assistance you need, please choose the
   area below that best matches your question or inquiry.

   In place of an e-mail address to contact me, my web site provides forms
   which you may fill out and submit instantly to the appropriate member
   of my staff.

   For students working on an assignment for school please click here:

     Address and telephone numbers
     For the address and telephone number of Senator Reed's Rhode Island
     or Washington, DC offices please click here.

     Need assistance
     Should you have a question or problem regarding any federal
     department or agency, or if we can assist you in addressing your
     concerns on a local or state issue, please click here.

     Make your voice heard
     To share your opinion with Senator Reed in support of, or opposition
     to legislation or an issue being discussed by Congress, the
     President or the press, or to just share your thoughts click here.

     For students
     If you are a student working on a research assignment my web page
     provide several sources you may wish to review. Click here to review
     them. If you need an answer from my office on a specific subject,
     please write a letter. You will receive a response in three to four
     weeks.

     Visiting Washington
     To request information on tours when visiting Washington please
     click here.

     Request a meeting
     To request a meeting with Senator Reed click here.

     Order a flag
     To order a flag click here.

     Internship
     To request information on an internship in Senator Reed's office
     please click here.

     Service Academy Appointments
     To request information on applying for a Congressional Nomination to
     any of the four Service Academies please click here.

     Receive news summaries by e-mail
     To subscribe to receive summaries of press release by e-mail click
     here. We cannot send copies of news releases by fax to anyone who is
     a not a member of the press.

     Personal
     If this is a personal matter please contact the Senator's office by
     mail or by telephone. Click here for addresses and telephone numbers
