http://egov.gov/aces_policy_authority.htm

   GSA Logo   Skip past Home GSA

                                       egov logo Picture of the American flag


   Home

       Privacy & Security

                         FAQs

                             About Us

                                     Staff

                                          Search

                                                Site Map


   Related Links

   - Access Certificates for Electronic Services (ACES)

   Program Partners

   ACES Policy Authority

   GSA OGP is the Policy Authority for the Access Certificates for
   Electronic Services (ACES) Program. This program established a Public
   Key Infrastructure to support digital signature for governmentwide use
   with the public. The Policy Authority administers the policies and
   infrastructure of the ACES program to provide assurance that digital
   signatures are used appropriately and securely across government.
   Digital signature is the foundation for secure Internet transactions
   and E-Gov initiatives. ACES was the first Federal program to register
   its policy with the official registry at NIST. ACES policy documents
   have been leveraged by other programs and governments to increase
   compatibility. The ACES Program is available to all Federal agencies;
   currently a dozen agencies have issued task orders under the ACES
   Program.
   To build citizen-centric E-Gov services across government, GSA OGP is
   working to build common processes for digital signature among agencies
   that serve common citizen and industry groups. Citizens and businesses
   use a single ACES certificate for digital signature with multiple
   Federal agencies for multiple purposes. GSA organized four Federal
   agencies (Dept. Education, Labor, Veterans Affairs, and USPS) to
   commonly issue digital certificates for digital signature to
   post-secondary students and schools. Over 100,000 ACES certificates are
   being issued to students and schools over the next 12 months for
   services in delivering student aid, filings to the government, and
   remote authentication. GSA has begun to organize the principal Federal
   healthcare agencies (Dept. Defense, Health and Human Services, Veterans
   Affairs) with industry efforts to establish healthcare PKI services
   that industry and government can both use.











           Home | Privacy & Security | About Us | Staff | Site Map
                  Contact Us | Search | Privacy Information

   Accessibility 05/07/2001 OGP-CIO
