http://norfolk.fbi.gov/contact/fo/norfolk/employm.htm



    Home Feedback


  Link to Investigative Programs

Investigative Programs

Link to Media Matters

Media Matters

  Link to Community Alert & Educations

Flashing image

Community Alert & Education

Link to How to Reach Us

 How to Reach Us

  Link to Community Outreach

Community Outreach

Link to Employment

 Employment

Link to Police Links

 Police Links

Link to Local Weather/Time

 Local Weather/Time


                                       Employment

                                      To apply on-line for specific professional support vacancies at FBI
   Headquarters and in the 56 field offices as well as for information on
   FBI policies and practices, please visit the FBI's Employment Page.

                           Special Agent Position

   While FBI Special Agents come from a broad range of educational
   disciplines and professions, they all share a common desire to fight
   crime and pursue a meaningful and rewarding career.

   To qualify for training as an FBI Special Agent, you must be a U.S.
   citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands, and at least 23
   and not more than 36 years of age. Candidates must be completely
   available for assignment anywhere in the FBI's jurisdiction, have
   uncorrected vision not worse than 20/200 (Snellen), and corrected 20/20
   in one eye and not worse than 20/40 in the other eye. All candidates
   must pass a color vision test and possess a valid driver's license.

   In addition, all Special Agent candidates must hold a degree obtained
   in a four-year resident program at a college or university that is
   accredited by one of the six regional accredited bodies of the
   Commission on Institutions of Higher Education.

   The first step in becoming a Special Agent is the completion of a
   written application, which can be obtained at the Norfolk Division of
   the FBI. If you're interested and think you may meet the criteria
   listed above, you may contact the Norfolk Division in writing, by
   phone, or in person for an application. For security and authentication
   reasons, employment inquiries sent by e-mail will not be accepted. For
   more information, contact the FBI Employment Page.


   photo of Langley Air Force Base

   A static display of jets formerly and presently assigned to Langley Air
   Force Base in Hampton, Virginia

                         Professional Support Staff

   Whatever your background or expertise -- whether you are a lawyer,
   linguist or chemist, an administrative assistant or file clerk -- you
   can apply your skills and help improve the safety and security of our
   country working with the FBI. Professional Support Employees, working
   alongside Special Agents, are critical to the FBI's success.

   Once you become an FBI employee, you may be assigned to FBI
   Headquarters or one of 56 field offices in the United States like the
   Norfolk Division, based on your skills and the needs of the FBI.

   The FBI offers challenging and rewarding opportunities for a variety of
   career paths that lead to management positions. You may apply for
   training in fields other than those in which you are hired after you
   establish a satisfactory work record with the FBI. Promotional
   opportunities are consistent with your overall qualifications and
   proficiency. The FBI is firmly committed to affirmative action policies
   for minorities, women, veterans and persons with disabilities.

   All applicants must be U.S. citizens. To request an application, you
   may stop by the office, send your request in writing to the Norfolk
   Division, or call. For security and authentication reasons, employment
   inquiries sent by e-mail will not be accepted. For more information,
   contact the FBI Employment Page.

   Last modified: March 17, 2000
