http://apps.phila.gov/brt/Brtprop1101a.nsf

                                TERMS OF USE

   PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING TERMS OF USE CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THIS WEB
    SITE. BY ACCESSING OR USING THE SITE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF
   THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH BELOW. ALL INFORMATION AND SERVICES
   ON THIS SITE ARE PROVIDED SUBJECT TO YOUR AGREEMENT TO THESE TERMS AND
    CONDITIONS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, YOU MAY NOT ACCESS OR USE THIS SITE.

                         BRT Records and Information

   The Board of Revision of Taxes of the City of Philadelphia (BRT) makes
   every effort to produce and publish on this site the most accurate and
   current information available to it. Our ownership records are based on
   deeds as recorded with the City of Philadelphia Department of Records
   (DOR), and we revise these records for currency as often as we are
   able. You are responsible, however, for verifying the accuracy of the
   information on this site by referring to the corresponding deed(s).
   The BRT is not an abstract company and we do not determine who has the
   better title to a property if the public records conflict as to
   ownership. The information on this site is not intended to indicate the
   quality of title or priority of interest in any property, and you are
   advised not to rely on it for that purpose.
   The market values and assessed values published on this site may not
   reflect changes made since the last update in our database. We do not
   have any information as to whether taxes have been paid for any
   particular property.
   The additional City of Philadelphia terms and conditions below all
   apply to the information on this BRT site and to your access to and use
   of this information and the site.

                                 Disclaimer

   The City of Philadelphia and the BRT (collectively, the City) make no
   warranty or representation whatsoever, express or implied, with respect
   to the quality, content, accuracy, completeness, currency, freedom from
   computer virus, suitability for any particular purpose, or
   non-infringement of proprietary rights, of any of the information
   published on this site, or any of the design, text, graphics, images,
   pages, interfaces, links, software, or other materials, documents, and
   items contained in or displayed or published on this site. All such
   items and materials are provided on an "as is" basis, and you are fully
   and solely responsible for your use of them and for any results or
   consequences of your use. In many cases, they have been compiled from a
   variety of sources, including sources beyond the control of the City of
   Philadelphia, and are subject to change without notice from the City.
   Except as stated below, commercial use (including but not limited to
   sale to others) is prohibited without the prior written permission of
   the City. To the extent you use, apply, or implement this information
   in your own information system or other setting, or otherwise for your
   own purposes, you do so at your own risk. In no event shall the City,
   the BRT, the City's other agencies, or the officers, employees, agents,
   or representatives of any of the foregoing be liable for any direct,
   indirect, special, punitive, incidental, exemplary or consequential
   damages arising your accessing or using the site or any information
   displayed on the site, or otherwise arising from the site or from
   anything contained in or displayed on the site. Nothing contained in or
   displayed on this site constitutes or is intended to constitute legal
   advice by the City or any of its agencies, officers, employees, agents,
   attorneys, or representatives.

                               External sites

   This site may contain links to other sites on the Internet that are
   operated by parties other than the City and have information that may
   be of interest to our users. The City has no control over these sites
   and is not responsible for their content or for the availability of the
   sites or their content. Our links to these sites are not an endorsement
   or recommendation of the sites or of any commercial or other products
   or services that may be advertised or available on them; nor does the
   City necessarily support the views or facts presented on them.
   Questions and concerns regarding the content of any linked external
   site should be addressed directly to the administrator of the external
   site.

                   Copyright, trademarks and servicemarks

   Servicemarks and trademarks contained in or displayed on the site, and
   the contents of linked sites operated by third parties, are the
   property of their respective owners. All other design, information,
   text, graphics, images, pages, interfaces, links, software, and other
   items and materials contained in or displayed on this site, and the
   selection and arrangements thereof, are the property of the City of
   Philadelphia. All rights are reserved. Permission is granted to
   residents and citizens of the City of Philadelphia to copy
   electronically and to print information from the site solely for their
   own personal use, or for the purpose of sharing the information with
   other citizens and residents, and on the condition that all information
   is copied, printed, and shared without cost to the recipients and
   exactly as presented on the site, without any addition or modification.
   Reproduction, distribution or republication in any other form or for
   any other purpose (including sale to others or any other commercial
   purpose or use), and any modification whatsoever, are strictly
   prohibited without the prior written permission of the City.

                       Communications through the site

   In no event shall any communication made through the e-mail, messaging
   or other communications functions of any City web site constitute legal
   or other notice to the City, the BRT, any of the City's other agencies,
   or to any of the officers, employees, agents, or representatives of the
   BRT or the City, including but not limited to (i) legal notice required
   by federal, state, or local laws, rules, or regulations with respect to
   any existing or potential claim or cause of action against the City or
   any of its agencies, officers, employees, agents, or representatives;
   (ii) any form of notice required pursuant to the BRT's regulations or
   policies or any federal, state, or local law applying to the BRT; or
   (iii) any form of notice required pursuant to any document issued by
   the BRT.

                                Miscellaneous

   The foregoing terms and conditions and all disputes arising under them
   shall be governed, construed and decided in accordance with the laws of
   the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The City reserves the right to revise
   and otherwise change the foregoing terms and conditions at anytime and
   without notice. Headings are for convenience only and in no way define,
   limit, extend or describe the intent of any provision of these Terms of
   Use and Disclaimer.

     TO ACCESS OUR RECORDS NOW, PLEASE CLICK ON THE BOX "I AGREE," WHICH
    SIGNIFIES THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD, AND AGREE TO THE FOREGOING
                            TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

   [I%20Agree.gif?OpenImageResource]

                                    [Not%20Agree.gif?OpenImageResource]
