http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/strategic/training_dev.htm

    The NIDCD conducts and supports research and disseminates information
   on disorders of human communication, including hearing, balance, smell,
   taste, voice, speech, and language.

   [space.gif]
     * National Strategic Research Plan
     * Research Training/Career Development Report
     * Single and Multiple Project Grants Report
     * Peer Review Report

   Search this site
   _________ Go!
   [space.gif] [space.gif]
   Strategic Planning
   Work Group on Research Training and Career Development Report
   Final Report - January 21, 2000*
   [*Following review by the National Deafness and Other Communication
   DisordersAdvisory Council.]

   I.   Background

   The Work Group on Research Training and Career Development (WGRTCD) met
   in Bethesda, MD, on December 8 and 9, 1999, to discuss research
   training and career development relevant to the mission areas of the
   National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
   (NIDCD). The WGRTCD was provided with information on research trainees
   supported in the past by the NIDCD, and on NIH-trained individuals who
   had made the transition from training to independent support.
   Additional information was gathered from individuals who had made this
   transition without NIH training support.
     * WGRTCD Notice
     * WGRTCD Letter
     * WGRTCD Roster
     * WGRTCD Glossary

   The WGRTCD agreed that goals of the NIDCD should include enhanced
   efforts to recruit promising students into research areas relevant to
   the Institute. The NIDCD should provide the highest possible quality of
   research training within its mission areas. The Institute should also
   encourage the research training of health professionals working within
   its mission areas. Finally, the Institute should encourage the
   transition of trainees to independent investigator status, and enhance
   the prospects of its trainees to obtain research positions of the
   highest quality. To accomplish these goals, the WGRTCD developed the
   following recommendations.

   Section I. Individual Fellowships and Institutional Training Grants
   [uparrow.gif]

   Introduction

   While fellowship training at the NIDCD is generally regarded as
   successful, it was felt that current support mechanisms could be more
   flexible, to increase recruitment of students into the mission areas of
   the NIDCD. In addition, the current system for pre- and postdoctoral
   research training appears to rely too heavily on institutional training
   grants. This does not provide trainees with valuable early experience
   in grant writing, as is provided by preparing an individual
   application.

   The WGRTCD recommended a number of changes to the NIDCD's existing
   training mechanisms, and the addition of mechanisms that will be new to
   the Institute. The overall goal of these changes and additions is to
   create a portfolio of funding options to enhance training opportunities
   at every level. The flexible application of these mechanisms to the
   differing needs of trainees with various academic backgrounds is
   intended to maximize the entry of new scientists into research in the
   mission areas of the Institute.

   Predoctoral Training [uparrow.gif]

   It was agreed that a variety of models for the support of graduate
   students is beneficial, to increase the ability to attract and train
   high quality students. These include institutional and individual
   fellowships, as well as support of students on research grants.

    1. Continued support of Institutional Training Grants (T32) is
       recommended as an important means of attracting students into
       research in the communication sciences. T32 support should include
       the possibility of short-term or discontinuous support of students
       in appropriate situations, and should be extended to include
       research experiences for medical and other health professional
       students who are not yet enrolled in PhD programs. Such research
       opportunities should be made available only to students who submit
       an internal application outlining their aims for the funding
       period, which is reviewed and approved by the training grant
       faculty. The rationale underlying such creative uses of T32 support
       should be clearly delineated in grant applications.
    2. It is recommended that the Institute inaugurate a program for
       individual predoctoral research fellowships (F31), to be used
       primarily for support during the dissertation period. These
       fellowships should also be made available to support a one-year
       research experience for clinical students. The F31 program should
       be administered to allow expedited review and award.
    3. It is recommended that the Institute implement an F30 program, used
       to support individual students in MD/PhD programs, and to
       investigate the possibility of support for health professionals
       other than medical students to pursue the PhD. The intention is to
       create a highly competitive program of awards that supports student
       applicants who are involved in health professional training (e.g.,
       medicine, speech/language pathology) who wish to pursue
       cross-disciplinary doctoral study in relevant disciplines.

   Postdoctoral Training [uparrow.gif]

   There was broad support for continued use of both T32 and F32
   mechanisms to support postdoctoral fellows and trainees in different
   areas of the NIDCD portfolio.

    1. The individual postdoctoral fellowship (F32) is considered to be
       the "gold standard" for NIDCD-supported postdoctoral research
       training. More individuals should be encouraged to use this
       mechanism.
    2. In general, trainees supported on institutional training grants
       (T32) should be encouraged to transition to individual postdoctoral
       support (F32) as soon as possible, typically during the first year
       of T32 support. Individual postdoctoral training (F32) applications
       should receive expedited review and award. Success in transitioning
       trainees from the T32 to the F32 mechanism should be considered a
       positive feature in the review of T32 renewal applications.
    3. It is also recognized that some T32 programs require trainees to
       obtain several different types of training experience in a highly
       interdisciplinary environment. In such cases, a longer period of
       support from the institutional training grant may be appropriate
       before application ismade for individual postdoctoral support.
    4. Considerable discussion was devoted to the concept of adding a
       training component to the P30 Core Centers, to partially offset the
       loss of research training support in center and program project
       grants. Such a training component might provide limited-term
       support for undergraduate, graduate, or postdoctoral trainees. This
       could provide a mechanism with more flexibility than is available
       in the NRSA program to recruit trainees into research in the
       Institute's mission areas. It was decided that recommending a P30
       training component was premature. However, the NIDCD should monitor
       P30s and may wish to consider this in the future.

   Section II. Recruitment and Nurturing of Clinician-Scientists
   [uparrow.gif]

   Introduction

   A goal of the NIDCD is to promote and maintain the academic careers of
   talented clinician-investigators whose research interests match those
   of the Institute. Although some successes exist, supported by existing
   mechanisms, there has been a dramatic decline over recent years in new
   clinician-scientists entering the communication sciences. The reasons
   for this decline are complex. However, a major factor may be
   insufficient recruitment of research-oriented clinical trainees into
   the mission areas of the NIDCD. Another factor appears to be
   insufficient research training prior to and during clinical training.
   In addition, it is difficult for young clinical faculty members to
   obtain protected research time early in the academic career due to
   financial constraints and pressure to build a clinical practice

   Recommendations are provided below to address the overall need for
   catalyzing and maintaining the careers of clinician-scientists,
   including novel suggestions as well as modifications of existing
   programs. These recommendations apply at all levels of the training
   process: early exposure (premedical education), medical/clinical
   graduate school (including the MD-PhD program), clinical residency,
   post-residency fellowship, and early faculty stages of career
   development. Implementation of these recommendations should enhance the
   scope and efficiency of opportunities for budding clinician-scientists
   to achieve their goals in obtaining academic careers, as well as to
   attract individuals into this career path. In so doing, the overall
   goals of the NIDCD will be enhanced.

   Early Research Exposure: Undergraduate and Medical/Clinical Graduate
   School [uparrow.gif]

   One means of initiating an interest in academic clinical careers in
   communication disorders is to foster exposure to the field during
   college (premedical/clinical years), as well as the early years of
   medical/clinical graduate school, in the form of short-term laboratory
   experiences.

    1. The T32 mechanism should include and promote an option to support
       short-term (two months to one year) support for promising
       undergraduate or medical students to join a research laboratory
       working in areas within the purview of the NIDCD. The F31 mechanism
       should be modified to allow the opportunity to support a one-year
       effort, as described above. When feasible, a full year of research
       time away from the clinical curriculum should be encouraged.

   Combined Degree (MD-PhD) Training

   Students that enter a MD-PhD Program are generally acknowledged to
   represent a highly talented and committed group whose career interests
   are most likely to lead them to choose careers that combine clinical
   and competitive research activities.

    1. An F30 mechanism should be instituted by the NIDCD to identify and
       support students early in medical school (years 1-2) who wish to
       include PhD training. This program would be limited to individuals
       already accepted into an MD/PhD program, but not necessarily
       restricted to Medical School Training Program (MSTP) schools.
       Support should include stipend, tuition, and ancillary funds that
       match the MSTP for the remainder of MD/PhD training, up to a
       maximum of six years. Students should be selected based upon
       interest in thesis research in an area within communication
       sciences.

   Residency Research Training [uparrow.gif]

   An effective means of nurturing future clinician-scientists is to
   provide an academic track within residency training, across different
   medical and surgical specialties, that includes an intensive research
   experience.

    1. It is recommended that at least two years be committed to full-time
       research within an academic residency-training track, with rare
       exceptions (e.g., MD-PhD graduate who might spend less than two
       years). The T32 mechanism is well suited to support these research
       years. An F32 application should be encouraged when possible and
       should include a one-year option, as noted above for the
       undergraduate and medical school years.
    2. Residency programs should consider a postgraduate MSTP program for
       recruitment of MD-PhD graduates entering clinical residencies and
       seeking a combined residency/postdoctoral fellowship experience.
       The T32 and F32 mechanisms are well suited to support the research
       years.

   Post-Residency Research Training [uparrow.gif]

   This critical and vulnerable stage of academic career development
   remains inadequately represented among support options.

    1. A new support mechanism has been initiated within the Division of
       Intramural Research at the NIDCD. The Research Training Fellowship
       (RTF) is a two-to-three year individual research fellowship
       following residency training, where the trainee spends at least 75%
       time in an intramural laboratory. This fellowship opportunity
       should be carefully monitored by the NIDCD and considered for
       expansion to the extramural community if it is successful in
       generating new independent investigators.
    2. The K08/K23 programs should be modified to include review by an
       external advisory committee consisting of two scientists, not from
       the applicant's institution, who are experts in the field of
       proposed research training. The members of the committee would be
       available to the candidate for consultation and advice on a timely
       basis. The external advisory committee would be required to visit
       the institution at least twice, at the end of the first and third
       years of the award, to assess the research environment, time
       commitment, and progress of research training. Additional visits
       could be built into the application if desired by the applicant and
       mentor. In addition, the committee should receive written reports
       detailing progress at the end of each year of the award.
    3. Salary within the K-program should be up to 75% of the NIH Cap,
       commensurate with a 75% research commitment. Selection criteria
       should require evidence of research experience (e.g., at least 2
       years of prior research).
    4. It is recommended that the R03 mechanism be allowed to run
       concurrently with the last two years of a K Award, to provide
       additional resources for the transition to independence.

   Section III. Transitioning from Postdoctoral Career to New Independent
   Investigator CareerStage [uparrow.gif]

   Introduction

   The number of new investigators competing successfully for NIH grants
   is declining. For example, the number of investigators receiving their
   first R01 or R29 award from NIDCD has declined from 41 per year in FY
   1991 to 21 in FY 1999. This problem is particularly critical at this
   time because of the end of the R29 (FIRST Award) program. Also, the
   future success of the "new investigator" R01 is unknown. The WGRTCD is
   interested in encouraging research support for new investigators by
   facilitating transition to sustained independent research programs.
   Several steps to achieve this goal are recommended.

   The transition from training to true independence is often a graded
   process, that includes both intellectual independence and the
   establishment of investigator-controlled research space and resources.
   The NIDCD should encourage elements of granting mechanisms that reflect
   this reality, and allow gradual changes from postdoctoral fellowships
   to small research grants, and, ultimately to R01 research awards.

   The NIDCD Small Grant (R03) Award [uparrow.gif]

   The R03 has been a useful grant mechanism. Since the initiation of the
   current R03 program in 1992, the overall success rate (number awarded
   divided by number reviewed) is 29%. Moreover, for the three earliest
   years of the program, for which sufficient time has elapsed, R03
   recipients were generally successful in obtaining subsequent awards,
   with an average of 50% obtaining an R29 or an R01 after completing
   their R03. Given this success, the WGRTCD recommends the following:

    1. The three-year, $50,000 direct costs per year level of funding for
       the R03 should be maintained. However, flexibility in utilizing
       this mechanism should be increased.
    2. R03 awards should continue to be available to support research or
       salary costs for investigators making the transition from
       postdoctoral fellowships to their first academic position. However,
       to aid the transition, it is necessary that these grants be awarded
       based on the quality of the research and not on the requirement for
       independent space or equipment.
    3. Clinically trained investigators should be permitted to apply for
       R03 awards to support collection of preliminary data prior to their
       application for K08/K23 awards. This is similar to the way R03
       funding may be used prior to applying for other
       investigator-initiated awards.
    4. The opportunity to apply for an R03 should be made available to
       K08/K23 awardees in the 4th and 5th years of the K award for
       supporting research costs beyond the limits of the mentored award.
       The R03 application may cover aims that are related to the aims of
       the K08/K23, but may not duplicate those aims.
    5. An individual may apply for more than one R03 grant (e.g., before
       the K08/K23 to allow collection of preliminary data and in the
       later years of the K08/K23), but the total number of years of R03
       support may not exceed three years.
    6. The NIDCD should continue to monitor the success of the R03 program
       in meeting the needs of investigators transitioning from
       postdoctoral training to independent careers.

   Transition to Independent Research Career Development (K22) Program
   [uparrow.gif]

   A new mechanism that is designed to support the transition period from
   postdoctoral training to independent investigator is the K22, a
   Transition to Independence Research Career Development Program. This
   mechanism is currently offered by several NIH Institutes (including NEI
   and NCI), and presumably assists trainees in their mission areas to
   compete successfully for academic positions. The WGRTCD recommends that
   a two-phase K22 mechanism be adopted by the NIDCD as a carefully
   monitored pilot program.

    1. The first phase of the K22 should begin after three years of
       postdoctoral training (not limited to NRSA) and should provide a
       maximum of $75,000 per year direct costs, which includes salary,
       fringe benefits, and research-related expenses. The first phase may
       last up to three years.
    2. To maintain the K22 award beyond the first phase (and to begin the
       second phase), applicants should establish their own laboratories,
       which the WGRTCD strongly felt should be in a different department
       within the postdoctoral institution or, preferably, within a new
       institution. A letter from the chair of the new department
       describing the position and the resources to be made available to
       the K22 awardee would be required to advance to the second phase.
       The second phase of the K22 may be as long as three years, but the
       total length of the award should not exceed five years. During the
       second phase, total support should not exceed $100,000 per year,
       including salary, fringe benefits, and research-related expenses. A
       maximum of $50,000 (or 50% effort, whichever is lower) could be
       used for salary support.
    3. The number of K22 awards per year should be limited, so that the
       program is highly competitive.
    4. The K22 application should require letters of recommendation,
       including letters from scientists other than the candidate's
       advisors, and the review of the application should place
       considerable weight on the candidate's publication record.

   Health Information |  Strategic Planning |  Research Funding |
   Intramural Research |  News & Events |  About NIDCD |
   FAQs |  Site Index |  Search |  Contact Us |  Home
   [dots.gif]
   Text-only version
   Web Privacy Policy
   Site Information
   top
   [space.gif]
   National Institute on Deafness and
   Other Communication Disorders
   National Institutes of Health
   31 Center Drive, MSC 2320
   Bethesda, MD USA 20892-2320
