http://www.loc.gov/copyright/docs/circ1a.html

   Circular 1a
              _________________________________________________

                       United States Copyright Office

                        A Brief History and Overview
                     ___________________________________

     The Congress shall have Power . . . To promote the Progress of
     Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors
     and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and
     Discoveries . . .
     Article I, Section 8, U.S. Constitution

What Is a Copyright?

   It is a principle of American law that an author of a work may reap the
   fruits of his or her intellectual creativity for a limited period of
   time. Copyright is a form of protection provided by the laws of the
   United States for "original works of authorship" including literary,
   dramatic, musical, architectural, cartographic, choreographic,
   pantomimic, pictorial, graphic, sculptural, and audiovisual creations.
   "Copyright" literally means the right to copy. The term has come to
   mean that body of exclusive rights granted by statute to authors for
   protection of their work. The owner of copyright has the exclusive
   right to reproduce, distribute, and, in the case of certain works,
   publicly perform or display the work; to prepare derivative works; or
   to license others to engage in the same acts under specific terms and
   conditions. Copyright protection does not extend to any idea,
   procedure, process, slogan, principle, or discovery.

Role of the Copyright Office

   The Copyright Office provides expert assistance to Congress on
   intellectual property matters; advises Congress on anticipated changes
   in U.S. copyright law; analyzes and assists in the drafting of
   copyright legislation and legislative reports and provides and
   undertakes studies for Congress; offers advice to Congress on
   compliance with multilateral agreements such as the Berne Convention
   for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works; works with the State
   Department, the U.S. Trade Representative's Office, and the Patent and
   Trademark Office in providing technical expertise in negotiations for
   international intellectual property agreements; provides technical
   assistance to other countries in developing their own copyright laws;
   and through its International Copyright Institute, promotes worldwide
   understanding and cooperation in providing protection for intellectual
   property.

   The Copyright Office is also an office of record, a place where claims
   to copyright are registered and where documents relating to copyright
   may be recorded when the requirements of the copyright law are met. The
   Copyright Office furnishes information about the provisions of the
   copyright law and the procedures for making registration, explains the
   operations and practices of the Copyright Office, and reports on facts
   found in the public records of the Office. The Office also administers
   various compulsory licensing provisions of the law, which include
   collecting royalties.

   Additionally, the Copyright Office and the Library of Congress
   administer the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels, which meet for
   limited times for the purpose of adjusting rates and distributing
   royalties.

Brief History of the Copyright Office

   The Constitution gives Congress the power to enact laws establishing a
   system of copyright in the United States. Congress enacted the first
   Federal copyright law in May 1790, and the first work was registered
   within two weeks. Originally, claims were recorded by Clerks of U.S.
   District Courts. Not until 1870 were copyright functions centralized in
   the Library of Congress under the direction of the then Librarian of
   Congress Ainsworth Rand Spofford. The Copyright Office became a
   separate department of the Library of Congress in 1897, and Thorvald
   Solberg was appointed the first Register of Copyrights.

   Today the Copyright Office is one of the major service units of the
   Library of Congress. With public offices located at 101 Independence
   Avenue, S.E., Washington, D.C., the Office occupies portions of the
   James Madison Memorial Building and employs more than 400 people. In
   fiscal year 1994, the Office registered more than 530,332 claims to
   copyright and mask works, and collected for later distribution to
   copyright holders nearly $200,000,000 in cable television, satellite
   carrier, and Audio Home Recording Act compulsory license funds. As of
   fiscal year 1994, the Copyright Office has recorded 25,733,511
   registrations.

Mission of the Copyright Office

   Although the purpose of the copyright system has always been to promote
   creativity in society, the mission of the Copyright Office has grown to
   include:

   administering the copyright law

   creating and maintaining a public record
          through registration of claims and recordation of documents,
          including those related to compulsory licenses;

   providing technical assistance
          to the Congress and to Executive Branch agencies;

   providing information services to the public
          serving as a resource to the domestic and international
          copyright communities;

   serving as a resource
          to the domestic and international copyright communities;

   supporting the Library of Congress
          by obtaining and making available deposits for the Library's
          collections.

Administration of the Copyright Law

  The Office of the Register of Copyrights

   The Register of Copyrights serves the nation by providing advice to
   Congress, drafting legislation, preparing technical studies, and
   administering the copyright law. The Register of Copyrights also serves
   as Associate Librarian of Congress for Copyright Services.

   Assisting the Register of Copyrights are the Copyright General Counsel
   and the Associate Register for Policy and International Affairs, who
   provide legal advice and counsel to the Register.

   The Associate Register for National Copyright Programs works with the
   Register on development and implementation of an electronic copyright
   registration, recordation, and deposit system (CORDS).

   The Associate Register for Operations shares with the Register in the
   planning and directions of the Copyright Office with responsibility for
   the operation and administration of the Office's six Divisions and the
   implementation of new automated techniques and systems.

   The Register's Office also oversees the administration of the Copyright
   Arbitration Royalty Panel (CARP) process.

  Receiving and Processing Division

   This Division receives all incoming mail and dispatches all outgoing
   mail. It records and deposits payments for copyright fees; creates
   automated in-process records for all claims and fees received;
   establishes and maintains deposit accounts; routes applications for
   registration of copyright; handles incomplete claims; maintains files
   on all office correspondence cases; assigns copyright registration
   numbers; and creates and mails certificates of registration.

  Examining Division

   The Examining Division examines all applications, copies, phonorecords,
   and other material presented to the Copyright Office for the
   registration of original and renewal copyright claims to determine
   their acceptability for registration under the provisions of the
   copyright law and the Copyright Office regulations. It resolves errors,
   omissions, and inconsistencies in claims by communicating with the
   applicant by letter or phone. Through legal and factual research, the
   Division develops policies and practices in order to administer the
   copyright law and provide guidance to examiners and the public. The
   Division also examines claims to mask work protection filed under the
   Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984.

  Cataloging Division

   The Cataloging Division records the bibliographic descriptions and the
   copyright facts of all works registered in the Copyright Office as well
   as the copyright facts of all works deposited in the Office in order to
   be in compliance with the copyright law but not registered, thus
   providing effective reference access to all information of record
   relating to registrations, deposits, recorded assignments, and other
   documents.

  Information and Reference Division

   This Division provides public information and reference services
   concerning copyrights. It responds to all copyright information and
   reference requests from the public; produces and supplies Copyright
   Office forms and publications; furnishes search reports based on
   Copyright Office records; prepares certifications and other legal
   documents; provides for the inspection of works submitted for copyright
   registration; prepares authorized reproductions of works submitted for
   registration; and preserves, maintains, and services copyright-related
   records including the deposits registered.

  Licensing Division

   The Licensing Division is in charge of administering compulsory and
   statutory licenses. These licenses are issued for secondary
   transmissions by cable systems; for making and distributing of
   phonorecords; for the use of certain works in connection with
   noncommercial broadcasting; for secondary transmissions by satellite
   carriers for private home viewing; and for the distribution of digital
   audio recording devices or media. The Division collects royalty fees
   from cable operators for retransmitting television and radio
   broadcasts; from satellite carriers for retransmitting "superstation"
   and network signals; and from importers or manufacturers who distribute
   digital audio recording devices or media in the United States. After
   deducting its full operating costs, the Licensing Division invests the
   balance in interest-bearing securities with the U.S. Treasury for later
   distribution to copyright owners.

  Copyright Acquisitions Division

   The Copyright Acquisitions Division is responsible for using and
   enforcing the mandatory deposit requirement of the Copyright Act of
   1976 and Copyright Office regulations to acquire works needed for the
   collections of the Library of Congress. In keeping with the nature of
   its mission and workload, the Division operates under the direction of
   the Associate Register for National Copyright Programs and the
   Library's Director for Acquisitions and Support Services.

Creation and Maintenance of the Public Record

   The archives maintained by the Copyright Office are an important record
   of America's cultural and historical heritage. Containing nearly 41
   million individual cards, the Copyright Card Catalog housed in the
   James Madison Memorial Building comprises an index to copyright
   registrations in the United States from 1870 through 1977. The
   Copyright Card Catalog together with post-1977 automated files provide
   an index to copyright registrations in the United States from 1870 to
   the present. A large part of the literary, musical, artistic, and
   scientific production of the United States and of many foreign
   countries is recorded in these files. They are an important supplement
   to the Main Catalog of the Library of Congress as a research tool.

   Other records that supplement the Copyright Card Catalog include the
   Catalog of Copyright Entries, which is in effect the Copyright Card
   Catalog published in book form from July 1, 1891, through 1978 and,
   from 1979 through 1982, in microfiche. These records from 1978 forward
   are available for searching over Internet. Additionally, approximately
   150,000 copyright registrations from 1790 through 1870 were registered
   in the Office of the Clerk of each U.S. District Court. Most of these
   records are available on microfilm in the Copyright Office.

   Researchers may also investigate the ownership of a copyright by
   examining the Assignment and Related Documents Index and the Copyright
   Office History Documents, an online file, and may obtain copies of
   original applications and documents.

   The Licensing Division maintains public records of transactions related
   to the compulsory licenses it administers including the secondary
   transmission of copyrighted works on cable television systems and by
   satellite carriers for private home viewing; the making and
   distributing of phonorecords; the use of certain works in connection
   with noncommercial broadcasting; public performance of copyrighted
   music on jukeboxes from 1978-1989; and initial notices of distribution
   filed by importers or manufacturers of digital audio recording devices
   or media.

Technical Assistance to Congress

   As a service unit of the Library of Congress, the Copyright Office is
   part of the legislative branch of government. The Office provides
   copyright policy advice to Congress. At the request of Congress, the
   Copyright Office drafts legislation, comments on proposed legislation,
   and prepares substantial studies of copyright-related issues.

Information Services to the Public

   The public may visit the Copyright Public Information Office or call at
   (202) 707-3000. Recorded information on copyright is available 24 hours
   a day, seven days a week. Information specialists are on duty to answer
   questions by phone or in person from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Eastern Time,
   Monday-Friday, except Federal holidays. The Copyright Office Forms
   Hotline number, (202) 707-9100, is available 24 hours a day to accept
   requests for specific registration application forms and for
   informational circulars. Address written inquiries to Publication
   Section, LM-455, Copyright Office, Library of Congress, Washington,
   D.C. 20559-6000.

   For a fee, members of the public may obtain additional certificates of
   registration and certified copies of Office records. Copies of deposits
   may be obtained upon the request of the owner of the copyright in the
   deposit, by an attorney in connection with litigation involving the
   copyrighted work, and through a court order issued by a court having
   jurisdiction in a case in which the copy is to be submitted as
   evidence. For a fee, the Office will conduct searches of the records
   and prepare reports on the copyright facts of registrations and
   recordations. In addition, the Office will assist the public in using
   the public records of the Office.

Resource to the Domestic and
International Communities

   The Copyright Office promotes improved copyright protection for U.S.
   creative works abroad. The International Copyright Institute (ICI),
   created within the Copyright Office by Congress in 1988, provides
   training for high-level officials from developing and newly
   industrialized countries and encourages development of effective
   intellectual property laws and enforcement overseas.

   The Copyright Office actively cooperates with U.S. business interest
   and the Department of State in matters concerning international
   copyright relations, proclamations, and treaties. The Register and her
   staff work with other U.S. government agencies and international
   organizations to promote adequate and effective protection of U.S.
   copyright works internationally. In addition to the Department of
   State, the Office works with the Department of Commerce and the Office
   of the U.S. Trade Representative in negotiating with foreign countries
   to improve the copyright protection afforded U.S. authors in these
   foreign countries, either in bilateral copyright treaties or trade
   agreements or in multilateral efforts.

Support to the Library of Congress

   In 1870, Congress passed a law that centralized the copyright system in
   the Library of Congress. No legislation was more important to the
   development of the Library than that law, which required all authors to
   deposit in the Library two copies of every book, pamphlet, map, print,
   and piece of music registered in the United States.

   That partnership, created more than 125 years ago, has served the
   nation well. Supplying the information needs of the Congress, the
   Library of Congress has become the world's largest library and
   America's national library. This great repository of more than 110
   million books, photographs, maps, films, documents, sound recordings,
   computer programs, and other items has been created largely through the
   operations of the copyright system, which brings deposits of every
   copyrighted work into the Library. In one recent year alone, the value
   of these deposits was over $17.5 million.

   The Copyright Office also serves as an advisor to the Library on all
   copyright issues, including those related to the National Digital
   Library Program. It supports the collection development needs of the
   Library through Office deposit regulations. Its partnership extends to
   many joint projects, such as the current program to register and
   deposit copies electronically.

Registers of Copyright

    1. Thorvald Solberg, Register 1897-1930
    2. William L. Brown, Acting Register 1930-1934; Register 1934-1936
    3. Clement L. Bouve´, Register 1936-1943
    4. Richard De Wolf, Acting Register 1944-1945
    5. Sam Bass Warner, Register 1945-1951
    6. Arthur Fisher, Acting Register 1951; Register 1951-1960
    7. Abraham L. Kaminstein, Register 1960-1971
    8. George D. Cary, Register 1971-1973
    9. Abe A. Goldman, Acting Register 1973
   10. Barbara Ringer, Register 1973-1980
   11. David Ladd, Register 1980-1985
   12. Donald Curran, Acting Register 1985
   13. Ralph Oman, Register 1985-1993
   14. Barbara Ringer, Acting Register 1993-1994
   15. Marybeth Peters, Register 1994-present

Notable Dates in United States Copyright

   August 18, 1787
          James Madison submitted to the framers of the Constitution a
          provision "to secure to literary authors their copyrights for a
          limited time."

   June 23,1789
          First Federal bill relating to copyrights (H.R. 10) presented to
          the first Congress.

   May 31, 1790
          First copyright law enacted under the new U.S. Constitution.
          Term of 14 years with privilege of renewal for term of 14 years.
          Books, maps, and charts protected. Copyright registration made
          in the U.S. District Court where the author or proprietor
          resided.

   June 9, 1790
          First copyright entry, The Philadelphia Spelling Book by John
          Barry, registered in the U.S. District Court of Pennsylvania.

   April 29, 1802
          Prints added to protected works.

   February 3, 1831
          First general revision of the copyright law. Music added to
          works protected against unauthorized printing and vending. First
          term of copyright extended to 28 years with privilege of renewal
          for term of 14 years.

   August 18, 1856
          Dramatic compositions added to protected works.

   March 3, 1865
          Photographs added to protected works.

   July 8, 1870
          Second general revision of the copyright law. Copyright
          activities, including deposit and registration, centralized in
          the Library of Congress. Works of art added to protected works.
          Act reserved to authors the right to create certain derivative
          works including translations and dramatizations. Indexing of the
          record of registrations began.

   March 3, 1891
          First U.S. copyright law authorizing establishment of copyright
          relations with foreign countries. Records of works registered,
          now called the Catalog of Copyright Entries, published in book
          form for the first time in July 1891.

   January 6, 1897
          Music protected against unauthorized public performance.

   February 19, 1897
          Copyright Office established as a separate department of the
          Library of Congress. Position of Register of Copyrights created.

   July 1, 1909
          Effective date of third general revision of the copyright law.
          Admission of certain classes of unpublished works to copyright
          registration. Term of statutory protection for a work
          copyrighted in published form measured from the date of
          publication of the work. Renewal term extended from 14 to 28
          years.

   August 24, 1912
          Motion pictures, previously registered as photographs, added to
          classes of protected works.

   July 13, 1914
          President Wilson proclaimed U.S. adherence to Buenos Aires
          Copyright Convention of 1910, establishing convention protection
          between the United States and certain Latin American nations.

   July 1, 1940
          Effective date of transfer of jurisdiction for the registration
          of commercial prints and labels from the Patent Office to the
          Copyright Office.

   July 30, 1947
          Copyright law codified into positive law as Title 17 of the U.S.
          Code.

   January 1, 1953
          Recording and performing rights extended to nondramatic literary
          works.

   September 16, 1955
          Effective date of the coming into force in the United States of
          the Universal Copyright Convention as signed at Geneva,
          Switzerland, on September 6, 1952. Proclaimed by President
          Eisenhower. Also, date of related changes in Title 17 of the
          U.S. Code.

   September 19, 1962
          First of nine special acts extending terms of subsisting renewal
          copyrights pending Congressional action on general copyright law
          revision.

   February 15, 1972
          Effective date of act extending limited copyright protection to
          sound recordings fixed and first published on or after this
          date.

   March 10, 1974
          United States became a member of the Convention for the
          Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against Unauthorized
          Duplication of Their Phonograms, which came into force on April
          18, 1973.

   July 10, 1974
          United States became party to the 1971 revision of the Universal
          Copyright Convention as revised at Paris, France.

   October 19, 1976
          Fourth general revision of the copyright law signed by President
          Ford.

   January 1, 1978
          Effective date of principal provisions of the 1976 copyright
          law. The term of protection for works created on or after this
          date consists of the life of the author and 50 years after the
          author's death. Numerous other provisions modernized the law.

   December 12, 1980
          Copyright law amended regarding computer programs.

   May 24, 1982
          Section 506(a) amended to provide that persons who infringe
          copyright willfully and for purposes of commercial advantage or
          private financial gain shall be punished as provided in Section
          2319 of Title 18 of the United States Code, "Crimes and Criminal
          Procedure."

   October 4, 1984
          Effective date of Record Rental Amendments of 1984. Grants the
          owner of copyright in a sound recording the right to authorize
          or prohibit the rental, lease, or lending of phonorecords for
          direct or indirect commercial purposes.

   November 8, 1984
          Federal statutory protection for mask works became available
          under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act with the Copyright
          Office assuming administrative responsibility. Copyright Office
          began registration of claims to protection on January 7, 1985.

   June 30, 1986
          Manufacturing clause of the Copyright Act expired.

   March 1, 1989
          United States adhered to the Berne Convention for the Protection
          of Literary and Artistic Works.

   November 15, 1990
          Section 511 added to Copyright law. Provided that states and
          state employees and instrumentalities are not immune under the
          Eleventh Amendment from suit for copyright infringement.

   December 1, 1990
          Effective date of the Computer Software Rental Amendments Act of
          1990. Grants the owner of copyright in computer programs the
          exclusive right to authorize or prohibit the rental, lease, or
          lending of the program for direct or indirect commercial
          purposes.

   December 1, 1990
          Protection extended to architectural works. Section 106A added
          to copyright law by Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990. Granted
          to visual artists certain moral rights of attribution and
          integrity.

   June 26, 1992
          Renewal registration became optional. Works copyrighted between
          January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977, automatically renewed
          even if registration not made.

   October 28, 1992
          Digital Audio Home Recording Act required serial copy management
          systems in digital audio recorders and imposed royalties on sale
          of digital audio recording devices and media. Royalties are
          collected, invested, and distributed among the owners of sound
          recording and musical compositions, certain performing artists,
          and/or their representatives. Clarified legality of home taping
          of analog and digital sound recordings for private noncommercial
          use.

   December 8, 1993
          North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (NAFTA)
          extended retroactive copyright protection to certain motion
          pictures first fixed in Canada or Mexico between January 1,
          1978, and March 1, 1989, and published anywhere without a
          copyright notice; and/or to any work embodied in them; made
          permanent the prohibition of sound recordings rental.

   December 17, 1993
          Copyright Royalty Tribunal Reform Act of 1993 eliminated the CRT
          and replaced it with ad hoc Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels
          administered by the Librarian of Congress and the Copyright
          Office.

   December 8, 1994
          Uruguay Round Agreements Act restored copyright to certain
          foreign works under protection in the source country but in the
          public domain in the United States; repealed sunset of the
          Software Rental Amendments Act of 1990; and created legal
          measures to prohibit the unauthorized fixation and trafficking
          in sound recordings of live musical performances and music
          videos.

Further Information

   The Copyright Office is open to the public Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. to
   5 p.m., Eastern Time, except Federal holidays. The Copyright Office is
   located in the Library of Congress, James Madison Memorial Building,
   101 Independence Ave., S.E., Washington, D.C., near the Capitol South
   Metro stop. The Public Information Office is in LM-401, and information
   specialists are available to answer questions, provide circulars, and
   accept applications for registration. Access for disabled individuals
   is at the front door on Independence Ave., S.E.

  Phones

   Public Information Office: (202) 707-3000
          Information specialists are on duty to answer questions by phone
          from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Eastern Time, Monday-Friday except
          Federal holidays. Recorded information is also available.

   Forms Hotline: (202) 707-9100
          The Forms Hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a
          week. Use this number to request application forms for
          registration or informational circulars if you know which forms
          or circulars you want. If you are unsure which form or circular
          to order, please call the Public Information Office.

   Fax-on-Demand: (202) 707-2600
          Call from any touchtone phone to order up to three circulars
          and/or announcements via fax. Key in your fax number at the
          prompt and the document number of the item(s) you want. The
          items(s) will be transmitted to your fax machine. If you do not
          know the document number of the item(s) you want, you may
          request that a menu be faxed to you. Applications forms are not
          available via fax.

   TTY: (202) 707-6737
          Messages may be left on the TTY line 24 hours a day. Calls are
          returned between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., Eastern Time,
          Monday-Friday, except Federal holidays.

  Mailing Address

   Copyright Office
   Library of Congress
   Washington, D.C. 20559-6000

  Internet Address

   http://www.loc.gov/copyright
     __________________________________________________________________

                       U.S. Copyright Office Home Page
     __________________________________________________________________

   Library of Congress


    Comments: copyinfo@loc.gov (4/29/96)
