http://www.r5.pswfs.gov/accessibility.html

      USDA Forest Service. Activate this link to the national web site.

               [Imagemap]: Button images that serve as links.

 Forest Service shield, which is the agency logo that links to our national
  site. [Pacific Southwest Region Banner]: Pacific Southwest in gold color
        overlaying Region in blue, which links to the regional site.

        [--- National Forests in California ---] [BUTTON Input] (not
                               implemented)___

                  Home > Accessibility Statement

                                                Find a Forest



                            Recreation Activities

                                    Maps

                              Fire Information

                             Resource Management

                                   Safety

                              Permits & Passes

   Accessibility Statement

      The USDA Forest Service, Pacific Southwest Region, is committed to
      making its web sites accessible to all customers and employees. All of
      the region's web sites are undergoing review and redesign as necessary
      to ensure that they meet or exceed the requirements of Section 508
      Amendments of the Rehabilitation Act of 1998.

      Many of our web sites currently meet the Section 508 accessibility
      standards. Furthermore, the Pacific Southwest Region continues to work
      on making all web sites accessible. Thank you for your patience through
      this redesign process. If you have any comments or suggestions for
      improvement, please contact the Web Manager of this page.

      Contact Information: Bill Williams at wrwilliams@fs.fed.us.
      USDA Forest Service, Pacific Southwest Region

   Document Accessibility

      Most of the documents on our web server are in HTML format. This format
      is generally accessible to persons using assistive technology devices,
      such as screen reading software. We also have a number of documents as
      Adobe Acrobat PDF (Portable Document Format) files. Persons using
      screen reading devices generally cannot directly read documents in PDF
      format that were prepared in pre- Acrobat 5.0 software.

      Adobe Systems, Inc. provides an online conversion service through their
      Access web pages which will translate PDF files to web pages (HTML
      documents) or ASCII text.

      You may download software, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader and the Make
      Accessible plug-in, from the Adobe web site through this link.

      This site is produced by the Public Affairs and Communication Office of
      the United States Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Pacific
      Southwest Region.

   All people are welcome to use the National Forests.

                                               Graphic indicating top of page

                  Related web sites in blue and brown text.

                               DOJ Section 508
                          Federal IT Accessibility
                            Section 508 Standards
                             USDA Target Center

    Many of these links take you outside the Pacific Southwest Region web
    site. These links are not endorsements of any products or services in
   such sites, and no information at these locations has been endorsed or
                    approved by the USDA Forest Service.

   Privacy Policy

                 USDA Forest Service Pacific Southwest Region

                                                             Disclaimers
