http://www.tips.osmre.gov/charter.htm

                                   CHARTER

            Technical Information Processing System National Team

                                    TIPS

                          Office of Surface Mining

                                  June 2001


   Table of Contents:

   Article I. Team Operations *

     Section 1.01
     Team Mission *

     Section 1.02
     Customers and Services *

     Section 1.03
     Relationship of the Team to the OSM Structure *

     Section 1.04
     Team Etiquette *

     Section 1.05
     Team Manager *

     Section 1.06
     Membership *

     Section 1.07
     Meetings *

     Section 1.08
     Decision Making *

   Article II.
   Team Services *

     Section 2.01
     TIPS Core Software *

     Section 2.02
     TIPS Training Program *

     Section 2.03
     Service Manager Workgroup *

     Section 2.04
     Lead Core Software Manager *

     Section 2.05
     Core Software Managers *

     Section 2.06
     License Administrators *

     Section 2.07
     Software-Hardware Technical Assistance *

     Section 2.08
     Technical Assistance Requests *

     Section 2.09
     Research and Development *

     Section 2.10
     Government Performance and Results Act *

   Article III.
   TIPS Steering Committee *

   Article IV.
   Team Structure/Charter Modifications *


                         Article I. Team Operations

   Section 1.01 Team Mission

   To enhance the technical skills of States, Tribes, and Office of
   Surface Mining staff by providing them advanced engineering and
   scientific software, along with the training and assistance necessary
   to use it. Users apply practical Technical Information Processing
   System (TIPS) tools in efforts that regulate ongoing coal-mining
   operations and their reclamation and reclaim lands that have been
   degraded by past coal mining.

   Section 1.02 Customers and Services

   Our customers are States, Tribes, and OSM offices.

   Customer services include:

     Training Program

     Software and Hardware

     Research and Development

     Provide Technical Assistance when requested

   The team is committed to providing customer-focused computer
   applications and technical assistance. The team makes every effort to
   schedule work on projects to accommodate conflicting schedules of
   different customer groups. To ensure that customers' needs and
   requirements are being met to the degree possible the team periodically
   surveys its customers for feedback. Based on this and other feedback
   the team makes adjustments to improve the quality of services
   delivered.

   Section 1.03 Relationship of the Team to the OSM Structure

   The Team Manager reports to the WRCC Program Support Division Chief.
   The Team Manager will coordinate major TIPS activities with the
   Chairperson of the TIPS Steering Committee. The Team Manager will
   coordinate personnel workload and regional concerns with the Chiefs of
   the Program Support Divisions of ARCC, MCRCC, WRCC, Knoxville-Field
   Office Director and other appropriate OSM officials.

   Section 1.04 Team Etiquette

   All team members are expected to follow proper team etiquette when
   interacting with the team members. Each member will be on time for team
   meetings and prepared for discussing issues on the prepared agenda. No
   member is to commit significant team time or resources without team
   approval or to represent TIPS team on significant issues that have not
   been agreed upon by the team.

   All members are expected to support team decisions. It is the
   responsibility of members to voice concerns at team meetings. No
   personal attacks on team members will be tolerated. Members are
   expected to support other members and share relevant information in a
   timely manner.

   Members are expected to meet deadlines for which they are responsible.
   If they cannot, they are expected to inform the Team Manager in
   advance.

   Members are expected to attend the semi-annual team meetings.

   Section 1.05 Team Manager

   The Team Manager provides pro-active leadership for TIPS services
   nationwide. The Team Manager supports the team's goals for mutual
   commitment, trust, and interdependency among team members, OSM
   management, Steering Committee, and customers. The Team Manager will:

     ·
     Provide coordination and integration of TIPS services nationally.

     ·
     Coordinate the nationwide implementation, operation and maintenance
     of TIPS.

     ·
     Ensure the smooth operation of the National TIPS Training Centers in
     Alton, Denver and Pittsburgh.

     ·
     Provides direction to the TIPS Training Program.

     ·
     Oversee and monitor TIPS budget and procurements.

     ·
     Be a pro-active internal/external outreach TIPS spokes person.

     ·
     Provide direction and leadership for technical and management
     aspects of TIPS services, including liaison with OSM-Headquarters.

     ·
     Assist the team in ensuring that major tasks are properly assigned
     and assigns tasks as necessary.

     ·
     Represent the team’s interests to management and coordinate team
     activities with other units.

     ·
     Facilitate and schedule meetings, prepare meeting agendas, ensure
     effective communications and encourage participation by all team
     members in meetings.

     ·
     Negotiate workload priorities with other OSM managers.

     ·
     Serves as a member on the TIPS Steering Committee.

   Section 1.06 Membership

   The National TIPS Team consists of team members identified and updated
   on the TIPS website at
   www.tips.osmre.gov/TeamMembers.htm.

   From time-to-time members may be added or removed. The Team Manager
   will coordinate with appropriate OSM management officials and keep the
   Team advised. In addition, the Team Manager will consult with the team
   to ensure that skills and expertise required for the team are
   maintained.

   Section 1.07 Meetings

   The team will hold routine, semi-annual, and special meetings when
   needed to discuss team business.

   The routine meetings will be held bi-weekly on Mondays beginning at
   9:30 am Central Time. Meeting length will be limited to one hour unless
   otherwise agreed. The meetings will be held using conference calls to
   connect all members’ offices. Team members are expected to arrange
   their schedules to attend meetings as best they can.

   All team members are expected to be present during semi-annual
   meetings. PSD Division Chiefs from the regional offices will be invited
   to attend these meetings, as appropriate.

   The Team Manager may call special meetings.

   Minutes will be taken at all meetings. The minutes will be short,
   discussion-oriented, and in the form of "Topic-Discussion-Decision".
   Draft minutes will be distributed electronically on the same day as the
   meeting to the members. Members will have 18 hours from initial
   distribution to forward comments to the author. After that time, the
   author will forward the minutes to the appropriate personnel to post
   the minutes on the TIPS WEB page. The responsibility for taking minutes
   will rotate at each meeting.

   There will be an agenda for each meeting. The Team Manager is
   responsible for compiling an agenda prior to each meeting. Members are
   responsible for submitting agenda items to the Team Manager. The agenda
   will be submitted to members 1 day in advance of meetings.

   Section 1.08 Decision Making

   Decisions on establishing/modifying services and team goals will be
   made by consensus; other decisions will be by discussion and agreement
   by majority. Team goals will be formulated and established each year by
   the team. All team decisions will be made in a manner that assures that
   member’s concerns are heard and that all factors identified through
   discussions are considered. More than 50% of members must be present to
   make decisions. The TIPS Steering Committee Chairperson and PSD
   Division Chiefs from the regional offices will be invited as
   appropriate. Decisions are subject to management review.

                          Article II. Team Services

   Section 2.01 TIPS Core Software

   The TIPS website at
   www.tips.osmre.gov/coresoftware_2001.htm lists the current TIPS core
   software along with other pertinent information. This software will be
   fully supported by the TIPS Team. This will include providing
   sufficient licenses, training and technical support. The core software
   may be modified from time-to-time by the Team as deemed appropriate and
   in consultation with the TIPS Steering Committee.

   In addition, the Team may provide limited support for additional
   software after consultation with the TIPS Steering Committee. This will
   be done on a case-by-case basis. It is envisioned that customer demand
   for this non-core software will be modest when compared to the core
   software. It will be provided on a limited basis to customer’s having a
   need and will not be part of the TIPS Training Program. If the need
   increases the software could be moved to the core software category.

   Section 2.02 TIPS Training Program

   The TIPS Training Workgroup (TIPS-TW) consists of the Training Program
   Manager, Course Managers, Training Center Computer Specialists,
   Instructors, Course Developers, and Training Coordinators. The goals of
   this workgroup are the following: provide training in TIPS software
   applications to TIPS customers; provide hardware and software resources
   and facility management for training customers in TIPS regional
   training centers; provide necessary support to ensure the smooth
   delivery of on-site classes; annually assess the training needs of TIPS
   customers; develop and maintain TIPS courses that meet TIPS customer
   needs as defined by the annual joint NTTP-TIPS Survey, Service Managers
   and the TIPS Steering Committee; coordinate with NTTP in customer
   surveys and the scheduling of TIPS courses and instructors; contribute
   course titles and catalog descriptions to NTTP that give TIPS customers
   needed information to make intelligent decisions; schedule training
   classes to meet a significant percentage of TIPS customer requests;
   develop a cadre of professional and authoritative TIPS instructors;
   produce and keep current a TIPS training program operational manual and
   individual course manuals including instructor and student materials;
   maintain a logistically sound method of course nomination and
   registration that ensures the maximum number of student enrollment in
   TIPS classes; internally audit TIPS customer comments regarding TIPS
   training and resolve any issues; and to achieve or surpass the annual
   GPRA customer satisfaction goal.

   What follows is a description of the duties for the Training Program
   Manager, Course Managers, Training Center Computer Specialists,
   Instructors, Course Developers, and Training Coordinators.
   Listing the duties by role will help ensure that the TIPS Training
   Program is effectively coordinated and carried out. This is
   particularly important as the TIPS Training Program expands to meet
   customer needs. More specific guidelines will be contained in the TIPS
   Training Best Practices Manual (under development).

   All TIPS training courses, facilities, and instructors will be
   evaluated under the procedures developed in the OSM Annual Performance
   Plan, as mandated by the Government Performance and Review Act of 1993.

   The TIPS website contains the lists of names for the TIPS Training
   Program Workgroup at
   www.tips.osmre.gov/training/trainingWorkgroup.htm.


     (a) Training Program Manager Duties

     The Training Program Manager is the leader for the Training Program
     Workgroup and has overall responsibility for ensuring the successful
     planning, development and execution of the training program. The
     TIPS Team Manager will provide policy direction and resolution of
     major problems with customers. Duties include:

     ·
     Develop and maintain TIPS annual training schedule. This includes
     consulting and coordinating with Course Managers, NTTP, Training
     Contacts, Instructors, Course Developers, Training Center Computer
     Specialists, Training Coordinators, and supervisors’ of
     instructors/developers.

     ·
     Coordinate with NTTP concerning the training program including
     annual customer surveys, class schedules, announcement of training
     schedule, letters to supervisors of instructors/developers and TIPS
     OSM training catalog submissions.

     ·
     Report to the Team Manager and TIPS Steering Committee on program
     achievements, initiatives and issues.

     ·
     Develop and maintain a Training Program Project Plan each year that
     identifies major tasks and milestones. This plan will assist the
     Training Program Manager and the TIPS Team Manager in planning and
     executing the training program throughout the year.

     ·
     Propose training program budget and monitor throughout the year,
     making adjustments as needed.

     ·
     Interface with Service Managers to ensure customer needs are being
     met within resource constraints and to recruit qualified
     instructors.

     ·
     Develop and maintain the TIPS Training Best Practices Manual. This
     manual will document the necessary activities and procedures for the
     TIPS Training Program. It will provide Course Managers, Developers,
     Instructors, Training Center Computer Specialists, and Training
     Coordinators the framework to carry out their duties. It will
     provide a guide to Course Managers and Developers for developing
     courses including training materials (e.g., instructor handbooks,
     student handbooks, class evaluations, continuous improvement).

     ·
     Coordinate with Course Managers to ensure that progress in course
     development and class delivery is being met.

     ·
     Takes a proactive role in coordinating with customers to ensure that
     student enrollment in each class is timely and that classes are full
     to the extent possible. Coordinates with state, tribal, and OSM
     training contacts in advance of classes to reconcile problems.

     ·
     Communicate training center use dates (final class schedule) and
     coordinate with Training Center Coordinators to ensure room
     availability and resolve schedule conflicts.

     ·
     Coordinate with Lead Instructors to ensure that on-site training is
     scheduled and that facilities, hardware and software are adequate
     for each class.

     ·
     Compile and report GPRA statistics on a quarterly/yearly basis.

     ·
     Review, summarize and resolve student concerns (e.g., class
     evaluations) with the training program.

     ·
     Ensure that class evaluations and rosters are received in Denver and
     input into TIPS databases.

     ·
     Assess course and instructor efficacy and recommends changes.
     Coordinates with Course Managers to ensure that instructors have
     appropriate level of training, i.e., NTTP Instructor Training
     Course, course software.

     ·
     Advise course managers on need for course modifications.

     ·
     Evaluate new training areas for the program.

     (b) Course Manager Duties

     Course Managers have the lead responsibility for development and
     continuous improvement of assigned courses. This includes assembling
     a workgroup of qualified experts, planning, course development and
     pilot classes. Duties include:

     ·
     Establish and lead the workgroup for assigned courses including
     scheduling and coordinating necessary meetings.

     ·
     Lead workgroup in developing course material. Test class manuals and
     materials with a pilot class. Modify and maintain course materials
     for assigned courses, as necessary.

     ·
     Provide course manuals and materials to the Denver Training
     Coordinator 3 weeks prior to each class.

     ·
     Ensure that instructors know and understand their duties as outlined
     below.

     ·
     Liaison with Training Center Computer Specialists and Lead
     Instructors on course and software logistics. Provide Training
     Center Computer Specialists (Alton, Denver and Pittsburgh Training
     Centers) and lead instructors (on-site training) with detailed
     instructions on software installation and updates. This includes
     ensuring that each class has properly licensed software installed on
     each workstation.

     ·
     Provide input into the annual training survey and propose class
     schedules, coordinating with the Training Program Manager, Training
     Coordinators and instructors.

     ·
     Will serve as lead instructor.

     ·
     Review student class evaluations and improves course content and
     execution, as appropriate.

     ·
     Provide advance input to the Training Program Manager on travel,
     materials, and training costs associated with class development.

     ·
     Ensure that instructors have necessary software training to be
     effective.

     ·
     Recruit new instructors, as needed.

                   (c) Training Center Computer Specialists

     The Alton, Denver and Pittsburgh training centers each have a
     Training Center Computer Specialist to provide the necessary
     computer support for the Training Program. The duties of the
     Training Center Computer Specialists include:

     ·
     Maintains computers and peripherals in assigned training center to a
     high level of reliability.

     ·
     Coordinates with Course Managers and instructors.

     ·
     Installs software on computers and ensures that all computers are
     fully operational with the appropriate software before scheduled
     classes.

     ·
     Schedules TIPS classes on training center room schedule to ensure
     room availability for TIPS annual schedule.

     ·
     Provides support to the instructors and students to ensure that
     equipment is operational during scheduled class time.

     ·
     Arrange for multiple log-in privileges for Course Mangers,
     Developers and instructors.

     ·
     For on-site courses will provide support, as requested by Lead
     Instructor. Based on past experience it is expected that the level
     of effort in this area will be low.

     (d) Instructor Duties

     Instructors—including lead instructors and co-instructors are
     responsible for successful delivery of the TIPS classes. Duties are
     as follows:

     ·
     Instructors will teach classes at the time, date, and location
     provided in the training schedule.

     ·
     Lead instructors are responsible for coordinating distribution of
     the teaching load through consultation with the co-instructor.
     Co-instructors will contribute significant effort in teaching each
     class. Instructors will review student prerequisites for advanced or
     specialized courses to ensure that student attendance is appropriate
     and makes adjustments as necessary.

     ·
     For on-site classes at user locations (e.g., state, tribal,
     university sites) the Lead Instructor will be responsible for:

     Ø
     Arranging the class venue, and ensuring that needed
     software/hardware is shipped to the on-site computer support contact
     with the state/Tribe/university at least two weeks prior to the
     class.

     Ø
     Ensuring that the facilities are adequate for the class size and
     that the hardware and operating system are capable of running the
     required TIPS software.

     Ø
     Ensuring that the computers and software are ready for the class,
     requesting assistance from the Training Center Computer Specialists,
     where necessary.

     Ø
     E-mailing to the Denver Training Coordinator (Karen Pierson at ,) 30
     days in advance of the class the shipping address for training
     manuals and materials and the name of the on-site recipient.

     Ø
     Collecting the completed class roster and student training
     evaluations and sending them within one week to the Denver Training
     Coordinator.

     ·
     Both the lead and co-instructors will sign and distribute course
     completion certificates to students at the end of each class.

     ·
     Coordinate with Training Coordinators at each training center to
     ensure that the completed class roster and student training
     evaluations are sent to the Denver Training Coordinator within one
     week.

                         (e) Course Developer Duties

   New TIPS courses are developed and existing courses are continuously
   improved as determined by the Team and management. The Course Manager
   will be responsible for coordinating and leading their course
   workgroup. Each course workgroup will meet as necessary and conduct
   pilot classes (dry-runs) that will help ensure that the most effective
   course is developed. Course developers will:

     ·
     Be responsible for coordinating meetings with the Course Manager and
     ensuring that work assignments are completed in a timely fashion.

     ·
     All Developers will participate in development sessions at the
     scheduled dates, times, and locations.

     ·
     Developers will be part of the TIPS faculty and will teach classes.

     ·
     Course materials will be developed using PowerPoint format (minimum
     Office 97) or Adobe Acrobat 4.0 and will follow the guidelines
     contained in the TIPS Training Best Practices Manual (currently
     being developed).

                       (f) Training Coordinator Duties

   Training Coordinators provide administrative support for the TIPS
   Training Program for classes held at the Alton, Denver and Pittsburgh
   Training Centers and for on-site training classes. The duties include:

     ·
     The Denver Training Coordinator will receive nominations from
     State/Tribal/OSM Training Contacts for all TIPS classes. The Denver
     Training Coordinator will send confirmation letters to the
     appropriate Training Contacts 6 weeks in advance of the class. This
     letter will provide pertinent class information including blank
     Travel Information forms and will advise them of the name of the
     Training Coordinator who will make their travel arrangements. A copy
     of this letter will be sent to the appropriate Training Coordinator.
     The Denver Training Coordinator will closely coordinate with the
     Training Program Manager to resolve problems regarding the lack of
     nominations or conflicts.

     ·
     The appropriate Training Coordinator will contact instructors and
     make the necessary travel and room arrangements 4 weeks prior to
     each class. For OSM instructors the Training Coordinator will make
     room arrangements; travel arrangements will usually be completed by
     local support from the instructor’s office.

     ·
     For OSM students the Training Coordinators will prepare the
     necessary Travel Authorizations and arrange travel for each student
     for assigned classes at least 4 weeks in advance of the class. The
     traveler will be provided with pertinent information.

     ·
     Two weeks prior to each class the Training Coordinator will e-mail a
     final class roster to the instructors and the Denver Training
     Coordinator. For classes at the training centers the appropriate
     Training Coordinator will produce student certificates and ensure
     that necessary class manuals, materials and blank class rosters are
     available. For classes on-site the Denver Training Coordinator will
     produce student certificates and ensure that necessary class
     manuals, materials and blank class rosters are mailed two weeks
     prior to the class. The Course Manager will provide the necessary
     manuals and materials to the Denver Training Coordinator.

     ·
     When a class is complete the Training Coordinator will receive the
     necessary information from the students and complete the travel
     vouchers timely. Original signed vouchers will be sent to DFM and a
     copy will be sent to the Denver Training Coordinator and the
     traveler.

     ·
     For classes held at the OSM training centers, the Training
     Coordinator will be available on the morning of the last day of the
     class to gather information to complete the vouchers and answer
     questions. For on-site classes the instructors may request phone
     assistance.

     ·
     For classes held at the OSM training centers the Training
     Coordinator will forward the completed class roster and student
     training evaluations to the Denver Training Coordinator.

     ·
     Using the actual class rosters provided by the instructors, the
     Denver Training Coordinator will maintain a database of students by
     class and training year.

   The Training Coordinators have developed specific procedures that give
   further details on their procedures. These procedures will be
   incorporated into the TIPS Training Best Practices Manual.

   Section 2.03 Service Manager Workgroup

   The TIPS Service Manager Workgroup (TIPS-SMW) consists of members from
   the National TIPS Team as identified on the TIPS website at
   www.tips.osmre.gov/ServiceManagers.htm. The goals of this workgroup
   are: to communicate the TIPS mission and improve relationships with the
   TIPS user community; and to understand the TIPS user community needs
   and provide value-added services to meet those needs. The TIPS-SMW will
   increase communication between the TIPS Team and the user community.

   The duties of the Service Managers (SM) include:

     ·
     Coordinate with OSM regional and field offices.

     ·
     As the primary TIPS liaison meets with assigned customers at least
     twice yearly to communicate the TIPS mission and improve
     relationships.

     ·
     Identify needs and formulate/update individual TIPS action plans
     outlining these needs for at least a 2-year period.

     ·
     Arrange to provide appropriate TIPS services including: training,
     software and hardware support and TIPS-related technical assistance.

     ·
     Distributes core software to assigned customers.

     ·
     Coordinate with Training Program Manager on any special training
     needs.

     ·
     Coordinate with Core Software Managers regarding software deployment
     and licensing issues.

     ·
     Update TIPS DNS system including the people database.

     ·
     Deliver progress reports, as necessary.

   The TIPS-SMW will meet as needed and will report significant
   issues/concerns to the National TIPS Team during the regularly
   scheduled bi-weekly TIPS Team meetings. The National TIPS Team Manager
   will coordinate closely with the workgroup and each SM.

   The duties of SMs will complement the services requested by users for
   software and hardware support. Users will normally request technical
   assistance by directly contacting personnel identified on the TIPS web
   page for software and hardware support. However, when a SM becomes
   aware that technical assistance is needed they will coordinate the
   necessary assistance with TIPS Team members and other OSM personnel.

   Section 2.04 Lead Core Software Manager

   The Lead Core Software Manager acts as the clearinghouse for TIPS core
   software activities and coordinates core software activities for the
   team. Duties include:

     ·
     Compiles and analyzes software usage information provided by License
     Administrators for TIPS core software.

     ·
     Monitors customers usage of software through reports provided by the
     License Administrators and presents reports to the Team including
     recommendations to increase/decrease the number of software
     licenses.

     ·
     Prepares monthly/quarterly/annual reports for the Team and Steering
     Committee regarding software usage.

     ·
     Maintains overview of core software data and authorized licensing
     files. This includes information on software, version, Core Software
     Managers, License Administrators, license permission letters, etc.
     Appropriate information is maintained on the TIPS website.

     ·
     Coordinates the core software "cd" production with the Core Software
     Managers and appropriate License Administrators to produce keyed
     cd’s ready for distribution.

   Section 2.05 Core Software Managers

   Each core TIPS software application is assigned a Core Software
   Manager. This individual is the primary person responsible for TIPS
   team activities associated with their assigned software application(s).
   Personnel assigned to the Core Software Manager workgroup are listed on
   the TIPS website at
   www.tips.osmre.gov/SWmgrsLicAdmin.htm. Core Software Managers are an
   expert in assigned software. Duties include:

     ·
     Makes recommendations to the Team regarding needed core software
     updates.

     ·
     Proposes annual budget regarding assigned software (e.g.,
     maintenance, upgrades, license increases).

     ·
     Provides information to Lead Core Software Coordinator and Team
     Manager.

     ·
     Prepares requisitions for software maintenance and new purchases, as
     necessary.

     ·
     Is point-of-contact for technical support with vendor and TIPS
     users.

     ·
     Works with appropriate team personnel in updating software to
     hand-off to Service Managers (e.g., preparing master disks/CDs,
     installation instructions) for distribution to customers.

     ·
     Maintains TIPS database for tracking property/license of assigned
     software.

   Section 2.06 License Administrators

   TIPS provides most of its core software via license managing software.
   The TIPS website at www.tips.osmre.gov/SWmgrsLicAdmin.htm provides a
   listing of core TIPS software along with the names of the Core Software
   Managers and License Administrators. The duties of License
   Administrators are:

     ·
     Maintain assigned license manager software (ADLM, FlexLM, and Key
     Server) on servers in Alton, Denver and Pittsburgh.

     ·
     Provide user support for problems related to license manager
     software nationwide.

     ·
     Provide reports to Lead Core Software Managers to assist in
     monitoring software usage and problems. These reports will be used
     to assist in making decisions regarding increasing or decreasing the
     number of licenses for core software.

     ·
     Report to the Team Manager any critical problems related to user
     access of the software.

     ·
     Coordinate with Core Software Managers regarding software problems.

   Section 2.07 Software-Hardware Technical Assistance

   Team members will provide technical assistance to customers as needed
   in their areas of expertise. The TIPS WEB site includes a listing, by
   software and hardware topics, that includes names, phone numbers and
   email addresses. Support can be found as follows:

     Software:
     www.tips.osmre.gov/SoftwareHardwareHelp.htm

     Hardware:
     www.tips.osmre.gov/HardwareHelp.html

   Section 2.08 Technical Assistance Requests

   As requested, TIPS Team members will participate in providing technical
   assistance to States, Tribes and OSM offices. Technical assistance
   includes specific requests to provide reports, engineering designs
   and/or field investigations in available TIPS expertise including
   engineering, hydrology, and geology for both Title IV and V. Requests
   for technical assistance will be made to the Program Support Division
   of each respective region. If regional management determines they do
   not have the necessary resources they may request, through the Team
   Manager, that the TIPS Team provide assistance. The Team Manager will
   identify National TIPS resources that may be available and will
   coordinate with the region.

   On-the-job (OJT) training provided by TIPS Team members should not be
   confused with technical assistance. OJT training is considered
   assistance that is provided by the TIPS Team primarily to train
   individuals in the use of TIPS tools. OJT training is considered part
   of the "Training Program" services offered by the TIPS Team while
   technical assistance is considered part of OSM’s routine technical
   assistance.

   Section 2.09 Research and Development

   On a continuing basis Team members will recommend research needs for
   existing and new software. These proposals will be brought to Team
   meetings for discussion and potential action. The Team will decide on
   what the priorities should be for various software research and
   development. The Team will be periodically updated on the progress of
   all research and development activities. Final recommendations will be
   made to the Team regarding the beneficial use of the software to meet
   the TIPS mission. Based on these recommendations and consultation with
   the TIPS Steering Committee the Team will decide if the software should
   become Core TIPS Software. If the Team approves of the software as
   core, a proposed roll-out plan will be developed. This may include the
   development of training courses and vendor supplied training as needed

   Section 2.10 Government Performance and Results Act

   Team members will ensure that they properly gather and report necessary
   GPRA Performance Measure data. The team will report this data as
   required in OSM’s Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plans and as
   directed by OSM management (e.g., training).


                    Article III. TIPS Steering Committee

   In cooperation with the States OSM established the TIPS Steering
   Committee to help guide OSM’s TIPS efforts. The team will coordinate
   and cooperate with the committee. The team will report on the progress
   of efforts related to TIPS services and provide appropriate briefings
   and discussions. To the degree possible and as directed by OSM
   management the team will carryout the recommendations of the committee.

   As appropriate, the Team Manager will invite other OSM personnel to
   participate in committee meetings for the purpose of maximizing
   coordination with our customers and peers. This may include the
   National Technical Training Program office, WRCC-Office of Technology
   Transfer, etc.


              Article IV. Team Structure/Charter Modifications

   The team regards its structure as flexible and makes adjustments
   whenever needed to make the team more efficient and more responsive to
   its customers and the needs of management. Individual team members are
   encouraged to initiate discussions and make recommendations for
   improvement.


   Any of these provisions may be altered, amended or repealed by the
   affirmative vote of the members of the team at any special meeting of
   the team or by management.

   Back to TIPS Homepage
